---
author:
  name: Palatine
  picture: 110988
body: "I'm in the market for a laser printer, but I'm a bit flummoxed when it comes
  to understanding dpi output.\r\n\r\nOne of the models does 600 x 600dpi, which is
  too low for me. Heck even my inkjet did 1200dpi.\r\n\r\nHere's my problem:\r\n\r\nI've
  narrowed it down to two models. The HP laserjet 1022 does 1200x1200dpi. BUT . .
  . the Brother HL-2040 does 2400x600dpi. \r\n\r\nWhich is better with respect to
  producing text that is crisp and on the heavier side - as in, which would do justice
  to Bembo Book?\r\n\r\nBoth are b&w laser printers, and those dpi ratings are for
  text, as far as I know. \r\n\r\nAny help would be appreciated."
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I bought an HP-1022 recently. It was quite a find - no frills, but very affordable
    and a very small footprint. I did consider some Brother models, but they all seemed
    cheesy to me, not least because I think symmetrical resolution is important. My
    only complaint with the HP-1022 is some slight toner scatter towards the bottoms
    of shapes, visible via a loupe. HP suggested trying different fusing temperatures
    (easily set via the driver) and even sent me a replacement cartridge, but nothing
    helped. On the other hand, it's hard to see the scatter with the naked eye.\r\n\r\nIn
    terms of pumping up the color of text rendering, the HP software (at least on
    Windows) lets you choose a number between 1 and 5 to determine darkness, and it's
    pretty effective.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-12 05:48:07'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "Thanks for the reply, hrant!\r\n\r\nI actually bought the LaserJet 1020,
    but I was thinking about returning it because:\r\n\r\nI use an Intel-based Mac,
    and this little printer is supported by 1) An older HP driver that offers no access
    to print quality controls, limiting the output to 600 x 600dpi, and 2) An Open-Source
    CUPS driver which, although allowing access to print controls, prints 600 x 600dpi
    no matter what I select. This issue with the CUPS driver is confirmed by web sources.\r\n\r\nSo
    I'm basically stuck with a wonderfully compact, reliable (HP), quiet laser printer
    that is stuck in 600 x 600dpi mode. I compared a page of Underware's Dolly printed
    with the LJ 1020 to one printed with my Deskjet 5150, which printed it at 1200dpi.
    Needless to say, my inkjet brought out the warmth of Dolly, and that rich black
    it is known for. But at 600 x 600 dpi, it basically loses its charm\r\n\r\nOther
    lasers for Mac are either cheap Brother brands that do 2400 x 600 (why the lowewr
    vertical res?), or Samsung models that do 1200 x 600. \r\n\r\nThe only 1200 x
    1200 laser from HP that is in my price range is the Laserjet 1022, but that also
    is stuck at 600 x 600dpi on the Open Source drivers. It does have a Mac driver
    from HP, but I can't tell whether it just allows basic printing (what I'm stuck
    with now) or access to advanced functions. \r\n\r\nI feel like tearing my hair
    out. "
  created: '2007-05-12 07:55:06'
- author:
    name: tomii
  body: What about Post Script support, is it relevant?
  created: '2007-05-12 11:26:13'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "Oh yes, be aware of those el cheapo HP printers as many does NOT work with
    Mac. My girlfriend bought a Laserjet 1018 yesterday; imagine the phone call I
    got when she had assembled and attached it only to find out that there are no
    drivers for it. Luckily the shop would change it for a Samsung ML-2010 which works
    just fine. It's fast and dirt cheap, but noisy.\r\n\r\nThe one I recently opted
    for was the Laserjet P2015 which is more expensive, but very silent and very fast
    if you stick to vectors (text). First page really is out in eight seconds from
    stand-by mode. It's 1200x1200 dpi and it looks fine."
  created: '2007-05-12 13:21:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't know about drivers, but the 1020 only does 600x600 anyway, so\r\nreturn
    it pronto - the difference between 600 and 1200 is very clear.\r\n\r\nI had an
    inkjet for many years - it was cheap (with ink refills) and had\r\ngood resolution,
    but [affordable] inkjets always exhibit a fuzz that doesn't\r\njibe with text
    output to me.\r\n\r\nPostscript support would be great, but ups the price of a
    printer a lot.\r\nAnd from what I know HP's Postscript is buggy.\r\n\r\nBTW, the
    1022 is noisy, but surprisingly fast.\r\n\r\nThe 2015 is nice, but besides being
    about double the price its footprint is bigger.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-12 14:14:21'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I love my Ricoh Aficio AP610N\r\n\r\n1200 x 1200, postscript, 20 ppm, 11
    x 17\", really reasonable price (I think I paid around $800).\r\n\r\nI've always
    heard HPs postscript is buggy too - you need workaround software that limits your
    options (such as dpi). This Ricoh is basically plug and play into the ethernet
    port or router, once you download the driver. It's kinda big tho. I have it under
    my desk and it makes a nice footrest when I'm not using it. But man, I can print
    an entire book out in about 15 mins.\r\n\r\nInkjet printers suck."
  created: '2007-05-12 15:00:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I just looked at the HP-2015 again and after the typical rebate the price
    jump from the 1022 for Postscript is probably worth it for many people; and when
    you count the 1022's paper tray that sticks out (which does mean you can conveniently
    lay stuff on it though :-) the 2015's footprint is about the same. So you should
    probably go for that one.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-12 15:18:48'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I just recently got the same Rocoh model that Patty got. It has really good
    print quality and is very fast, plus true PostScript. \r\n\r\nPreviously I had
    a Brother all-in-one fax/printer/copier/scanner. The print quality was okay, but
    it was really slow and would go to sleep and refuse to wake up--sometimes in the
    middle of a job--necessitating a restart. It also bugged me that it printed much
    faster from Quark/Windows than from Quark/Mac. I can only conclude that the Mac
    printer driver was to blame. \r\n\r\nThe Ricoh has no such problems. Still have
    the Brother, but only use the fax and copier functions. Never did use the scanner
    part."
  created: '2007-05-12 16:57:28'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "I'd like to thank everyone for relating their laser printer experiences.
    It's helping me quite a bit.\r\n\r\nSo I figured that I'd experiment with various
    lasers until I get the right one in terms of my budget and print quality concerns.
    I can just return the unit(s) to Staples and do an exchange each time, just paying
    the difference. I don't mind the few extra dollars. A laser printer is an investment.
    \r\n\r\nI'm now trying the Brother 2070N, 2400x600dpi, with included Mac drivers.
    The options in the print menu allow for 300, 600, and 1200dpi (with the 1200 appearing
    as an \"HQ1200\" option.) Is this 1200 x 1200dpi? Or 1200 x 600? What's the 2400
    x 600 all about?\r\n\r\nI'm a bit confused here, but in any case, I printed out
    a sample page set in 10.5 Dolly and the output (at HQ1200) look darker and richer
    than the previous HP's 600dpi output.\r\n\r\nSo for a few dollars more than the
    HP 1020, I'm getting better results.\r\n\r\nBut there is also a Samsung model
    (ML 3051ND) in a similar price range that does 1200 x1200 (stated on the box),
    but which is rather large (nay, huge!), though it is also \"mac compatible\" -
    to what degree I'm not sure.\r\n\r\nAny thoughts? "
  created: '2007-05-12 18:10:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Staples is gonna love ya.  :-/\r\n\r\n> stated on the box\r\n\r\nThe boxes
    lie.\r\nI will never forget the desktop scanner box that -over\r\nten years ago
    mind you- claimed a resolution of 9600.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-12 18:48:14'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The boxes lie.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat goes for postscript and real CMYK
    support, too. "
  created: '2007-05-12 19:06:13'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "Nothing beats a visual comparison, letter for letter. \r\n\r\nThe Brother's
    printout of my Dolly sample page is virtually the same in terms of the thickness
    of black text as the page my Deskjet 5150 produced. The only real difference being
    that the laser-printed text is a bit sharper and crisper than the inkjetted page.
    \r\n\r\nIt seems the paper itself has quite a bit to do with the quality. A nice,
    slightly creamy heavier stock really brings out the richness of black text, especially
    with a font like Dolly.\r\n\r\nI'm satisfied with this little unit. Time will
    tell how reliable it is. \r\n\r\nThanks for the help, everyone!"
  created: '2007-05-12 20:38:33'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "I'm still a bit cnfused re dpi:\r\n\r\n2400 x 600  vs.  1200 x1200.\r\n\r\nWhich
    is better for text? Why would there be less vertical resolution with the 2400
    x 600? "
  created: '2007-05-13 01:36:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Think about how this stuff works: the paper moves, and the electromagnetized
    (or whatever) specs of toner are laid down on the paper, line-by-line. So the
    vertical resolution is a matter of how finely the paper can be moved, and the
    horizontal resolution is a matter of how finely the toner can be laid down. The
    former depends on the quality of the paper \"tractor\" mechanics, the latter on
    the quality of the electronics as well as the granularity of the toner coming
    out of the cartridge. Since the way any product like this is put together depends
    on the price point it is meant to end up selling at, an asymmetrical resolution
    means that it was much cheaper per dpi to produce either horizontal or vertical
    resolution. A given company might be able to produce finer mechanics and less
    fine electronics/toner than another company, and/or they value symmetricity of
    resolution differently.\r\n\r\nFor text, the horizontal dimension tends to need
    more definition, for things like consistent stem weights and equal counters in
    the \"m\" (especially using fonts with bad/no hinting) but most of all for reduced
    aliasing in italics. For a printer with finer vertical resolution than horizontal,
    printing text in landscape format gives better results. BTW, don't assume the
    higher number is the horizontal, since the marketing people will always get the
    literature to list the higher number first either way.\r\n\r\nAnd a general problem
    with asymmetrical resolution is that if you print something like a fine grid mesh
    (especially a skewed one) the texture and color of the vertical vs horizontal
    lines will be different.\r\n\r\nIn short: Oh brother!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-13 02:30:12'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "I'm learning quite a bit here. For text, it seems that a finer horizontal
    res is more important, when printing in portrait mode. \r\n\r\nBut all else being
    equal, hrant, if you want excellent text output, which dpi combo would *you* choose?\r\n\r\nI
    can still spring for the Laserjet P2015 you mentioned earlier, which seems to
    be a Postscript printer as well. It also seems sturdier than the Brother I have
    now\r\n\r\nI know I'm beating this to death, but if I'm to hound anyone for typographic
    knowledge, it'll be you!"
  created: '2007-05-13 03:18:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I guess all else being equal I <cite>might</cite> prefer 2400x600 over 1200x1200
    if I were using the printer almost exclusively for proofing my own fonts and I
    could shoot for landscape or portrait printing depending. But probably other factors
    (footprint, trustworthiness, etc.) would tip the decision for me. And they did!
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nBut if you're looking for a good general purpose, typographically
    decent laser\r\nprinter, unless buying the 2015 is likely to cause you monetary
    grief, go for it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-13 03:36:55'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "There are all kinds of reasons for/problems with laser or inkjet printers.
    For example, we could never use the highly though of -- and expensive -- Xante
    because some of its internal software took over & we couldn't do a proper grayscale
    profile for it. Now that only affects work with images, but images are an important
    part of our business. Drive by the office & make us an offer -- less than 5,000
    sheets through it.\r\n\r\nAlways remember that what you are after is total resolution,
    with all elements considered. So,\r\n\r\n1/Rt = 1/R1 + 1/R2 + 1/R3 + ... 1/Rn.\r\n\r\nIf
    one of those R's is low (like the paper), having high resolution in some other
    element doesn't help the total resolution all that much.\r\n\r\nMy real world
    test is that a .25-point rule often looks good on a laser printer. It flat-out
    doesn't work for offset printing (Direct-to-Plate at 2400 dpi), at least, with
    uncoated stocks. A .33-point rule is the smallest you can get away with.    "
  created: '2007-05-13 04:20:17'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "After going over my sample pages with a magnifying glass under good lighting
    conditions, something occured to me . . . \r\n\r\nEven though my laser printer
    is set to highest quality (HQ1200), the inkjet output still seems slightly darker,
    or better put, thicker. This may be obvious, but it's allayed some of my fears
    re laserjet vs. inkjet quality. The ink from the inkjet at high-quality setting
    seems to bleed into the paper, producing a kind of thick, perhaps fuzzy output
    that might not be what was intended by the font's designer. \r\n\r\nThe laser's
    output is just as dark, but seems a bit thinner due to greater sharpness/clarity
    because toner doesn't bleed into paper.\r\n\r\nI'm assuming, then, that for accuracy's
    sake, we'll want to avoid that \"ink bleed\" that seems to be characteristic of
    inkjets. This ink bleed might actually make text appear too heavy on the page.\r\n\r\nAm
    I making sense here? "
  created: '2007-05-13 05:03:28'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: 'Yes you are. In other words: NEVER trust an inkjet printer for text ''colour''.
    Never trust an inkjet for colour accuracy, unless it is fully calibrated, and
    none of the consumer models are. HP makes a line of pro-sumer Designjets that
    have an integrated loop-back colorimeter, that can print out a target and scan
    it, and create the ICC-profile for that specific paper, with the used ink cartridges,
    and the used printheads, for that temperature and humidity. And only for D5000
    norm-light. And that''s only really working with the third party RIP. And text
    ''color'' is still way off because you have to use some special proof stock to
    simulate off-set printing. So no, inkjet is not for us.'
  created: '2007-05-13 21:33:14'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Am I making sense here?</cite>\r\n\r\nYup. Inkjets pretty much suck
    when it comes to rendering fine text; I don\u2019t use them for anything lighter
    than Akzidenz-Grotesk. I know some crazy design students who can coax amazing
    output from an inkjet, but that\u2019s because they sit around all day running
    prints and tweaking settings for every page. \r\n\r\nSomething to keep in mind
    for getting really nice output is to just bite the bullet and have it run off
    by a local print shop on a really high-end laser printer. Even high-end business
    laser printers can\u2019t compare with what you can get from a print shops high-end
    laser printers for a dollar or two."
  created: '2007-05-13 21:46:07'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "I ended up taking back the Brother - I had reliability worries with it, and
    the unit seemed rather flimsy, and bought an HP Laserjet P2015. The one that Hrant
    suggested, more or less. \r\n\r\nI can already tell that the print quality makes
    this machine worth the extra money. The output is heavy enough to accentuate that
    deep, rich black, but light enough to bring out the details of the type. It's
    interesting how I can tweak the settings (i.e., print density) via a web interface.
    I compared newly-printed samples to what the Brother 2070N produced, and the Brother
    at highest quality seems to have rendered text far too dark and heavy. It's amazing
    what a difference a quality machine makes.  \r\n\r\nQuestion:\r\n\r\nWhat kind
    of paper should I use (weight/thickness) to really do justice to fonts that are
    meant to bring out a black that is rich and deep? I know there is \"laser\" paper
    that is sold in any computer outlet, but I think some of you might have a better
    idea. \r\n"
  created: '2007-05-13 23:41:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually Claus suggested the 2015 first.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-14 00:36:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW here's a discussion of the HP bug I mentioned:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/27813\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-14 02:16:43'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I got a 2015 and I really like it. It's good to know about the HP bug though.
    I should test my printer and see what I get...
  created: '2007-05-15 10:19:07'
- author:
    name: GraphicFuzz
    picture: 111520
  body: Anyone here use a Xerox Phaser? Pricier than HP, but I'm curious if it's less
    buggy when outputting from Mac.
  created: '2007-05-15 15:42:47'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "Eben:\r\n\r\nWhat would you suggest are the best print quality settings for
    the P2015? \r\n\r\nI have the print density set to 5, but there's also a resolution
    enhancement option (on/off), including an econo mode option with, somewhat oddly,
    a \"highest quality\" setting. \r\n\r\nI'm assuming ProRes 1200 is the best, but
    what about those other two options?"
  created: '2007-05-17 13:10:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If it's like the 1022, if you set it to \"true 1200\" you shouldn't have
    the resolution enhancement option on (that's for making 600 look more like 1200,
    which it does, but visibly not enough). You definitely don't want \"econo mode\"
    on, since that makes everything gray. On my setup all I did was switch it up to
    \"ProRes 1200\" and I get the best it can do. But I also have the density set
    to 3 (the default), and 5 is too much for me (plus it probably distorts the outlines,
    not to mention takes you further away from what an imagesetter would do).\r\n\r\nBeyond
    that the main thing you'll need to worry about is changing the paper type setting
    as needed. Thicker paper needs more toner fusing time, otherwise the stuff can
    actually fall off after printing!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-17 15:05:17'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "There are only three settings for image quality on OS X. The setting for
    highest quality is pretty self explanatory:\r\nPrinter Resolution: ProRes 1200\r\nResolution
    Enhancement: On\r\nEconoMode: Highest Quality\r\n\r\nAs far as I can see the 'Resolution
    Enhancement' does nothing when 'Printer Resolution' is set to 'ProRes 1200'."
  created: '2007-05-17 17:54:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "So far I have used it to test what an office printer is likely to do - not
    to try to make it into an imagesetter... ;-) You questions are good ones. I will
    try to test them out in about a week and a half. If I haven't  posted a result
    in 2 weeks bug me a little & I will. In the meantime I would fallow Hrant's advice
    but also look to see what you think.\r\n\r\nWhat I like about mine is that it
    prints very quickly, the cost per sheet is low, & it seem to be built well enough
    that I might get to keep it for more that 2 years unlike an inkjet which is the
    posterchild for planned obsolecence. It also doesn't seem to have an obvious problem
    with vertical or horizontal distortion which most laser printers ( other than
    a xante) do seem to. This doesn't mean that it is immune from the bug metioned
    earlier.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-18 03:53:55'
- author:
    name: jasonla
  body: I'm a big fan of <a href="http://www.superwarehouse.com/HP_printers/b2/110/c/49">hp
    printers</a> i've had 3 over the last 8 or so years. My last one which broke I
    called HP to see if they could help their service guy eventually said just to
    give him my address and they'd mail me a new one and to return the broken one
    which was really cool of them since i purchased it at staples and it may have
    even been out of warranty not 100% on that but he tried to diagnose the problem
    the paper didn't feed at all he just had a new one sent out to me. I'd really
    suggest if you ever have a problem with your printer to call them and see if they
    can send you a new one. They ask for your credit card in case you never send the
    broken one they charge you. It's worth calling you speak to someone over seas
    and i guess if your printer is really busted they offer you a new one.
  created: '2008-10-21 16:24:07'
- author:
    name: kolber
    picture: 116076
  body: "We've had a xerox phaser at work for the past few years. Not very impressed
    with the print quality.\r\nNever had any bugs running it on our mac network. Gradients
    don't always look so good, but apart from that, overall, not too bad."
  created: '2008-10-25 15:27:18'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: The more I look at this kind of question the more it seems like checking in
    the medium you will want your font seen in is the only really good solution. And
    if you want it to work in a variety of settings you had better check your font
    in those settings. Obviously there is a limit to these things - but my point is
    that there doesn't seem to really be a rule of thumb or easy solution. If I discover
    otherwise I'll let you know.
  created: '2008-10-26 13:55:46'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "I am trying to restart a similar thread to find out what\r\nthe current situation
    looks like for laser printers.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/15453#comment-393675\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 13:23:10'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Someone has already explained that a 2400 x 600 printer is basically a 600
    x 600 printer where the electronics allow fractional dot positioning. I am sorry
    to hear that the OP had a bad experience with buying a laser printer that had
    inadequate support for his computer; but in the case of the Macintosh (and, for
    that matter, with Linux as well) one must very carefully check on driver support
    for peripherals.\r\n\r\nThis reminds me of something else, though. Some laser
    printers have a 360 by 360 resolution. This way, they can, without rounding, support
    type with a 1/72\" point, and, like a 300 by 300 printer, also support the 1/60\"
    unit common to Pica and Elite typewriter fonts.\r\n\r\nSome European typewriters,
    instead of having a character width of 1/10\" or 1/12\", defined character widths
    in millimeters. And, of course, for printing, they use Didot points, based on
    the pre-revolutionary French Pied du Roi, which are about 15/14 of the English-speaking
    world's points. Have laser printers been designed with a resolution to specifically
    accommodate this?"
  created: '2010-02-04 14:27:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Some laser printers have a 360 by 360 resolution. This way,\r\n> they can,
    without rounding, support type with a 1/72\" point\r\n\r\nHowever this is moot,
    since no laser printer is really dot-\r\naccurate anyway, and many of them don't
    even come close!\r\n\r\nIn addition, 360 is not nearly enough for nice rendering.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 15:10:06'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Hrant, are you still using the same printer as you were at the start of this
    thread?
  created: '2010-02-04 16:09:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes. It's working just fine, although I don't print a\r\nlot (I installed
    a second cartridge a few months ago).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 16:32:16'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "A Didot point is about 0.0376 millimeters, so one could imagine it being
    approximated by 0.375 millimeters. I would assume that 10 pitch typing would be
    approximated by letters that are 2.5 mm wide; 12 pitch is 2.12 mm, so 2 mm is
    possible, but I vaguely remember instead seeing 2.25 mm given as a width of characters
    on a European typewriter.\r\n\r\n0.375 is three times 0.125, or 1/8, so 8 dots
    per millimeter, or 203.2 dots per inch, would serve both the Didot point and the
    common European typewriter pitches well. Of course, that is too low for laser
    printer quality, but any multiple - 16, 24, and so on, dots per millimeter should
    work well.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 20:29:51'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ 1985\r\n\r\nThere is a <a href=\"http://www.druckerchannel.de/\">good German
    website specialized on printers</a>. I have a Samsung ML-3051 and the printing
    quality is very high in my opinion. (I am not sure yet, if the 1200 dpi \xD7 1200
    dpi are emulated.)\r\n\r\nHowever, they take photos with a microscope:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.druckerchannel.de/cache_bilder/std/textdruck_qualitaetsmodustextdruck_qualitaetsmodus_l12b13.jpg\">Samsung
    ML-4551/letter a (Palatino)/quality mode</a>.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.druckerchannel.de/cache_bilder/std/textdruck_qualitaetsmodustextdruck_qualitaetsmodus_lf8f80.jpg\">Samsung
    ML-3051/letter a (Palatino)/quality mode</a>.\r\n\r\nAs you can see, the ML-3051
    prints cleaner, (probably!) less glossy (an advantage), but thinner (a bit too
    thin). I have compared the outline of the Palatino a in Photoshop.\r\n\r\nThe
    buy is not a question of precision only, but also a question of taste. For most
    digitized typefaces, the ML-4551 is maybe better, because in my opinion most of
    them are too thin! But in case of Mario Feliciano\u2019s Merlo for example the
    ML-3051 works perfectly fine.\r\n\r\nI only have to warn you with regard to the
    resistance of the Samsung toner against mechanical influences. If you fold and
    unfold paper, the paper looses the toner in the edge. So, if I have to fold paper,
    I am using an electric iron and hold it shortly to the edge.\r\n\r\nAnd forget
    the duplex print of the ML-3051. I tuned mine with a kind of carton rail. Now
    I am able to print duplex very precise, but I need 20 seconds per page. No, not
    20 seconds, I need more time. It takes more time than letterpressing now, lol!
    But nevertheless I am contented.\r\n\r\nAnd Samsung has a very bad firmware support.
    In Germany they send service men to you only for updating firmware, although this
    could be done by yourself in a few minutes only.\r\n\r\nI have heard, that Lexmark\u2019s
    toner resistance is very good.\r\n\r\nHope this was a help!"
  created: '2010-02-04 21:47:54'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I posted some advice related to this here\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/15453\r\n\r\nIn
    which I say that it isn't the laser printer you need to worry about ( within limits)
    but rather the way you test. \r\n\r\nI don't mean to make light of being interested
    in these things - especially as proofing devices for graphic design. \r\n\r\nBut
    it is a different matter for designers of type."
  created: '2010-02-06 15:43:06'
- author:
    name: simjps-spammer
  body: There are papers specifically optimized for laser printing and some for ink
    jet. Others are just generic copy machine paper. If you are interested in producing
    a quality product yourself, you will need to use quality materials. Both HP an
    HammerMill make papers which specify their intent to be used on laser printers.
    I prefer 24lb as a minimum. If you examine the surface of laser papers versus
    others, you can see something about the sheen and lack of visible texture in them.
    This must enhance their apparent sharpness compared to inkjets which rely somewhat
    on absorbsion characteristics. Laser toners are fused with heat on top of the
    paper rather than be absorbed into the paper fibers as are inks. It makes sense
    when you think about it. Watch for the sale prices and promos and stock up when
    you can. <a href="">cartucho toner</a>.
  created: '2012-02-27 23:54:00'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Wow! A spam-like post that may be considered informative! This calls for a
    party!
  created: '2012-02-28 12:09:56'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Since this thread has risen from the ashes, I might mention that in my web
    searches on this topic, I found that some early Autologic laser printers had a
    723 dpi resolution. This shrunk the output just enough so that if the software
    assumed a 720 dpi resolution, and used the conventional 1/72\" point, the point
    size would actually be shrunk to 0.01383126... inches, which approximates a real
    official printer's point of 0.013837 inches.\r\n\r\nFurther pursuant to this topic,
    I've modified [[http://www.quadibloc.com/other/cnv01.htm|this page]] on my web
    site by adding a table comparing several possible laser printer resolutions in
    the neighborhood of 1080 dpi, showing how closely these resolutions could approximate
    both the Didot point and either the standard English printer's point of 0.013837
    inches or its nominal 1/72 inch replacement in the computer world."
  created: '2012-03-26 19:09:45'
date: '2007-05-12 05:19:16'
title: Laser Printer - dpi question

---
