---
author:
  name: missgiggles
  picture: 111889
body: "Apart from them being the same colours and the fact that Hitler dipised the
  Jews and so did Walt Disney. They were both icons of the 1930's  but the swaztika
  symbolised good luck. Is that true? and why would Hitler not allow students to wear
  the Micky Mouse badge when they were supporting Hitler? That's weird and he made
  them wear the swaztika instead. Did you know that Hitler was found with a Mickey
  mouse watch on? Hmmmm...so why did he get rid of Mickey mouse badges from students
  then? So back to my original question, they were both meant to be symbols but what
  of? Symbols of power? Were they both rebelious? \r\nWhat about the crucifix and
  the swaztika? Do they have much more in common than that of Mickey mouse and the
  swaztika? I know that the swaztika is a bent cross from the religious cross so it
  derives from there but it was meant to be a symbol of well being. So from my knowledge,
  did the swaztika come before the cross or after but then it's confusing because
  they say that the swaztika derived from the cross so what came first? Anyone able
  to confirm? "
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the swaztika is a bent cross from the religious cross\r\n\r\nNo, it's much
    older than Christianity.\r\nAlthough the cross as an \"abstract\" symbol is older
    still.\r\n\r\nYou might be interested in getting a copy of \"The Cross as\r\nSymbol
    & Ornament\", J Troyer, 1961. The text of which\r\nis all hand-lettered BTW (although
    it's not too much).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-12 19:07:55'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "The swastika dates back to the neolithic period. The cross is probably an
    even older symbol.\r\n<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swastika\">http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swastika</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross\">http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross</a>\r\n\r\nAs
    for what these symbols \"mean\" it depends on whose ascribed meaning you're talking
    about, and when.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-12 19:19:52'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Is this a joke?\r\n\r\nSome questions are so dumb they are impossible to
    answer.\r\n\r\nYou should first try some basic research before posting a thread
    for discusion. \r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Research"
  created: '2007-05-12 21:20:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Dumber than any <cite>question</cite> is assuming a canned answer.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-12 22:03:33'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "No. It's true. I also heard that Mussalini had a cedar chest (hidden behind
    a bookcase in his private study)<em> filled </em>with rubber chickens (ancient
    symbol of bad wedding reception dinners) and seltzer bottles, although publicly,
    he claimed to hate Vaudeville.\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rubber_chicken"
  created: '2007-05-12 23:09:47'
- author:
    name: "Kellie Str\xF8m"
    picture: 111448
  body: <A HREF="http://www.iht.com/articles/2007/03/28/arts/boomers.php">I don't
    see any similarities at all.</A>
  created: '2007-05-13 01:56:01'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Nazi_Mickey_6420.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/9224141_a81e7b4cf9_m_4994.jpg]"
  created: '2007-05-13 04:12:50'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Apart from them being the same colours and the fact that Hitler dipised
    the Jews and so did Walt Disney.</cite>\r\n\r\nWow, that line is SO much funnier
    than it should be.\r\n\r\nAnyway, Walt Disney was a big Nazi sympathizer for a
    while when he was trying to get a German film distribution deal. It didn\u2019t
    last. Anyway, you should have no trouble finding stuff about this if you start
    hitting up the libraries."
  created: '2007-05-13 04:19:49'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: "Why do some people on here think i am DUMB? I am certainly not what you think
    I am!!! By the way, sorry to those peopel who took it serious (unlike the silly
    peopel who did not! You know who you are.) Anyway, Thomas, you said that the cross
    would have come about before the swaztika. My research suggests that teh swaztika
    used to be a symbol of peace in Hinduism way before the cross but then the Nazi's
    turned it around, I think 90 degrees and used it. \r\nJpad, why would my line
    be soooo funny? I'm being straight to the point without any extra waffling.  Is
    that meant to be funny? I don't know what's so wrong? i'm totally not with you.
    I really arn't.\r\nWormwood, maybe you're a joke! My question is defiantely realistic
    and there is definitely some connnection. Maybe you're just not aware of it in
    the contexual manner. Sorry but I had to mention that. it upsets me that people
    just think I am dumb, when in actual fact, i'm not! Sheeesh, what is the world
    coming to."
  created: '2007-05-13 11:03:44'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I don't think that you are dumb, and I hope that no one else here thinks
    that you are dumb either. I think that your ideas for your thesis are a bit too
    broad. This is something that happens or has happened to a lot of students\u2014myself
    included. The trick is to narrow yourself down to one specific topic, and then
    discover the depth inside that and describe that well and persuasively. If you
    do that, your thesis will be great. Focus on one thing, though. You can't do everything!
    (nor should you!)"
  created: '2007-05-13 11:24:43'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "I didn't think you were dumb, either; I just didn't think you were serious.
    Your question sounded a lot more like someone having a bit of fun on a Saturday
    afternoon.\r\n\r\n[an edit to show it can be done]"
  created: '2007-05-13 14:41:05'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: Sorry I did not mean to say that. I feel really bad now and I can't even delete
    it. Sorry, OMG! How could I say something like that. Sorry.
  created: '2007-05-13 15:14:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You can't delete it? I thought you said you weren't a blonde?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-13 15:48:58'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: Dont want to upset any more people do I?  an yup I can delete and have deleted
    it so :D
  created: '2007-05-13 16:01:20'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: "By the way, why is this post also on\r\nhttp://dotsandloops.net/headlines/iid/347173\r\n\r\nI
    wonder...and Ricardo, where did you find that image? Was it in an article? Have
    a look at this\r\nhttp://www.bradblog.com/?p=3409\r\n\r\nIs Hitler's nose a Mickey
    Mouse nose in that image? \r\nhttp://mickhartley.typepad.com/blog/2006/02/mickey_mouse_po.html\r\n\r\nhttp://everything2.com/index.pl?node=Mickey%20Mouse\r\n\r\nhttp://www.bertisevil.tv/pages/bert003.htm\r\n\r\nSo
    this question is not a joke, I can reassure you. I'm looking at in the contexual,
    historic manner which includes political too.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-13 16:02:41'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "The swastika is an ancient symbol of sun, also a good luck symbol\r\nSee
    the history of the symbol of the Finnish air force pre-Hitler\r\nhttp://www.sci.fi/~ambush/faf/faf.html\r\n\r\nI
    know I've posted this before to the Darfur thread, there's more about the symbol
    there\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/31690"
  created: '2007-05-13 16:42:23'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: "seen this poster with the swaztika on the tail? http://www.universityofthepoor.org/schools/artists/wwII/goebbels.htm\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-13 16:48:05'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: but i was serious about the rubber chickens and seltzer
  created: '2007-05-13 16:54:36'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I don\u2019t think that you\u2019re dumb, but sometimes your matter-of-fact
    way of stating things is amusing. It\u2019s probably because I\u2019m a pretentious
    fop who needs at least a paragraph to say much of anything."
  created: '2007-05-13 19:44:16'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Dyslexia aside Faz, if you put more care into the wording and spelling of
    your posts, and organized your thoughts a little more coherently, you might get
    taken more seriously here. I have said this before. Contrary to what you seem
    to think, I am not out to get you! It might help to listen to what people say
    instead of getting defensive.\r\n\r\nYour curiosity and variety of interests is
    admirable and the last thing I want is to discourage you. But your posts read
    like you composed them on the fly, and yet you expect (and often get) extremely
    thoughtful responses from the patient folk on this forum. It's a two-way street."
  created: '2007-05-13 19:59:07'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: and the vaudeville
  created: '2007-05-13 21:26:42'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "I did not say YOU were dumb. Though there is evidence to suggest it...\r\n\r\n<em>user
    account\r\nFull name: missgiggles \r\nCity: england\r\n\r\nthe swaztika used to
    be a symbol of peace in Hinduism way before the cross but then the Nazi\u2019s
    turned it around, I think 90 degrees and used it.</em>\r\n\r\nMaybe I am a joke.
    I've often thought so.\r\n\r\nMaybe you should think about losing that chip on
    your shoulder and how it got there in the first place."
  created: '2007-05-14 00:53:45'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: the youth of today...
  created: '2007-05-14 01:34:23'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "I don't know what you're driving at. England is one of my favorite cities.
    \r\n\r\nAnyway, I would absolutely love to see gci footage of goose-stepping troops
    wearing Mickey Mouse insignia armbands. Could anything be better? (I'm being serious)\r\n\r\n(I've
    decided to include the additive \"I'm being serious\" each time I actually AM
    being serious, so as to avoid confusion in the future)"
  created: '2007-05-14 01:38:51'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Anyway, I would absolutely love to see gci footage of goose-stepping
    troops wearing Mickey Mouse insignia armbands.</em>\r\n\r\nThis <a href=\"http://uncyclopedia.org/wiki/Admiral_Donald_Duck\">post</a>
    comes from that same parallel universe...  ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-14 01:47:50'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/wj4_3586.jpg]'
  created: '2007-05-14 01:55:22'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "yes...\r\n\r\n(I'm serious)"
  created: '2007-05-14 01:56:28'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "<em>the youth of today\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nDon't you mean 'the Hitler Youth
    of today'?\r\n\r\n<em>footage of goose-stepping troops wearing Mickey Mouse insignia
    armbands</em>\r\n\r\nIt sounds like something I may have already seen in some
    nu punk video."
  created: '2007-05-14 02:02:35'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "I think you may be thinking of Pink Floyd. Or maybe I'M thinking of Pink
    Floyd...\r\n\r\n(i'm serious)"
  created: '2007-05-14 02:12:33'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: Yeah, possibly the film version of 'The Wall'.
  created: '2007-05-14 02:21:18'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "This is just a statement:\r\n\r\nMy sides hurt.\r\n\r\n(I'm serious)"
  created: '2007-05-14 02:40:13'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Wow, a single image with Nazism, Mickey Mouse, references to George Bush,
    AND fake condensed Comic Sans. \r\n\r\nOnly in a Miss Giggles thread..."
  created: '2007-05-14 04:15:19'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: 'On the 90 degrees notes: Why are the Giggles in that picture coming from
    the wrong source and in the wrong direction?!'
  created: '2007-05-14 05:22:14'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Aziz, like I've said <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/32622\">before</a>,
    those are emanations of Gigglespeak. Highly toxic stuff.\r\n\r\n(I'm not serious.)"
  created: '2007-05-14 06:25:06'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "Burj al-Arab \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/250px-DubAymx_5769.JPG]\r\n\r\nsymbols
    of peace and love can also be found in many places.\r\n\r\nThe Tower of the Arabs
    greets boats approaching Dubai with a huge Christian cross."
  created: '2007-05-14 10:58:36'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Sadly, against the outward thereof most such places soft+mercy, \r\nbut the
    inward thereof thorns+chastisement?! "
  created: '2007-05-14 12:53:55'
- author:
    name: sayerhs
    picture: 112341
  body: "well, we did discuss the swastika in our mythologies course. The swastika
    has been used in three contexts(in history i mean).\r\nIn Hinduism, apart from
    luck its also a symbol of sorts of protection from evil.\r\nIf im right,It is
    also a part of Nordic culture. It stood for the unity/brotherhood and blah blah.\r\nThe
    national socialist party(germany) or the nazis,  used the same cocept of brotherhood,
    twisted it to include racial superiority as well. And obviously, the swastika
    became infamous thanks to the nazis and Hitler.\r\nAs for the mickey mouse..no
    clue..\r\n\r\nShreyas"
  created: '2007-05-14 18:04:43'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: "Don't overlook the Celtic triskelion, triple spiral, and running man symbols.
    They may only have three segments, but they're Indo-European solar and good luck
    symbols nonetheless. There's also the lauburu (Basque cross) and the Japanese
    tomoe.\r\n\r\nNow, since there were three Axis members (ignoring, of course, the
    twenty-odd minor powers, co-belligerents, puppet states, and collaborator states),
    but the swastika has four legs, that can only mean that Hitler intended to enlist
    one more major power. Certainly, there were significant fascist and pro-German
    movements in the United States before WWII. Was Walt Disney Hitler's front man
    and subliminal propagandist in the United States?\r\n\r\nWell, when Leni Riefenstahl
    went to the US in 1938 to try to make film deals, Walt Disney was the only studio
    head who met with her. This means you should look for hidden Mickeys* in Victory
    of the Faith, Triumph of the Will, Day of Freedom, Festive Nuremberg, Olympia,
    and Tiefland. You can use the Chryse Planitia or Cydonia filters in Photoshop
    to do so (these were originally developed by NASA to identify human faces on Mars**).\r\n\r\n*
    http://www.hiddenmickeys.org/WhatIs.html\r\n  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hidden_Mickey\r\n\r\n**
    http://www.marstoday.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=15245\r\n   http://science.nasa.gov/headlines/y2001/ast24may_1.htm"
  created: '2007-05-14 18:18:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Speaking of 3, there's also Terreblanche.\r\nhttp://newsimg.bbc.co.uk/media/images/40260000/jpg/_40260627_terre1_ap_ok.jpg\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-14 18:23:53'
- author:
    name: OptimusChyme
    picture: 111204
  body: I know that everyone on typophile is supposed to only provide constructive
    criticism, and that most everyone here is quite genteel, but I have to say that
    missgiggles's posts have only gotten more bizarre and demanding over the last
    six months, and I do not understand why someone who is asking for help is so frequently
    rude as well as unable to articulate even the most basic ideas.
  created: '2007-05-14 18:59:52'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: '''Bizarre''? It''s not bizarre...food for thought you could say! By the way,
    who said you can''t learn from someone not as experienced as you guys/women on
    here. I may be little in the design industry now but doesn''t mean to say I don''t
    have big ambitions... So am I still bizarre? Arn''t designers suppose to be bizarre
    so they can come up with innovative designs and ideas etc? Hmmm...food for thought
    (I am serious)'
  created: '2007-05-14 19:49:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I live for bizarre.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-14 19:53:51'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Designers are supposed to be articulate and professional and communicate their
    ideas well. Designers are supposed to be able to take criticism along with encouragement
    and not stamp their feet and go on the attack when people offer constructive advice.
    Designers should be able to learn from their mistakes and not repeat them. Being
    bizarre is rather low on the list of qualities a successful designer should strive
    for. However, on this forum, I do find it endlessly entertaining. Swastikas and
    Mickey Mouse, why the hell not?
  created: '2007-05-14 20:03:56'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: "Think Different - Bizarre:\r\nmarkedly unusual in appearance, style, or general
    character and often involving incongruous or unexpected elements; outrageously
    or whimsically strange; odd: bizarre clothing; bizarre behavior. markedly unusual
    in appearance, style, or general character and often involving incongruous or
    unexpected elements; outrageously or whimsically strange; odd: bizarre clothing;
    bizarre behavior."
  created: '2007-05-14 20:05:12'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "You left out the bottom part:\r\n\r\n\u2014Synonyms weird, freakish, grotesque,
    ludicrous."
  created: '2007-05-14 20:09:13'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: Artists and Designers try to elevate the bottom parts and shoot for higher
    things
  created: '2007-05-14 21:34:31'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "The bottom part's the best part (of definitions, I mean)\r\n\r\n(I'm only
    a little serious)"
  created: '2007-05-14 21:48:48'
- author:
    name: FlorianCH
  body: "Oh my god, this thread is so hilarious\u2026 Ms Giggles, your questioning
    technique is really unrivalled and beyond comparison. I also always admire the
    patience and the \u203Ahelper syndrome\u2039 of all the experts involved. "
  created: '2007-05-14 21:51:08'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: Um. I must have been too subtle (a first if so). The second and third paragraphs
    of my first post are jokes.
  created: '2007-05-14 22:40:51'
- author:
    name: FlorianCH
  body: 'I think that was unmistakable, Gus. '
  created: '2007-05-15 07:10:28'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> Artists and Designers try to elevate the bottom parts and shoot for higher
    things\r\n\r\nBojev, that reminds of underware's seller named \"Sayyad= Kingfisher\"
    in my hometown who could not resist a chunky goldfish turning shirts and shorts
    on his desk. Here the story goes:\r\n\r\nGoldfish:  How much is this shirt?\r\nKingfisher:
    6 Dirhams\r\nGoldfish : And this short?\r\nKingfisher:  5 Dirhams.\r\n\r\nGoldfish:
    \ No discount?\r\nKingfisher: Shirt 7 + Short 4, OK?\r\nGoldfish : More?\r\nKingfisher:
    \ Shirt 8 + Short 3, OK?\r\n\r\nGoldfish:  The short is going down and the shirt
    is going up?\r\nKingfisher: How are you off for the cash?\r\nGoldfish:  How are
    you off for the ... ?!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-15 08:00:53'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Miss Giggles,\r\n\r\nI wondered what happened to you - it's been a long while
    since I've seen one of your topics emerge here.\r\n\r\nI also wonder why you have
    selected this topic, better, what does it have to do with type?\r\n\r\nThis is
    a day that I am in mourning. My mind is all over the place as I grieve for my
    dog (see the Bichon in the photo) got run over and killed by a UPS truck this
    morning.\r\n\r\nI am trying to keep my mind on anything but Bogie, and yet I see
    your ridiculous \"argument\" open for discussion, and dear lady, I wonder are
    you for real?\r\n\r\nNotice, not asking if you have an IQ of a genius, or the
    lack of any mentality whatsoever - just curious if you are really for real?\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-17 02:52:40'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Jackie,\r\n\r\nI am so sorry about your dog, how awful."
  created: '2007-05-17 03:41:07'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I think the mods make these threads up to keep silliness confined.
  created: '2007-05-17 04:54:36'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Sorry to hear about the Dog Departure.\r\nAnd so are Kingfisher+Goldfish
    for their Dogfish.\r\n(The 3 are real).\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-17 10:55:21'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: "Sheesh Jackie, i'm very sorry about your dog but don't take out your life
    aggression on me thank you. I am human and I have had many peopel close to me
    pass away within 3 months but don't mean I take it out on others and on someone
    who has started a thread on design. Sorry for your grief but I have had much of
    that myself from a very young age and still do. My thread is about Mickey Mouse
    and Swaztika. You didn't have to post an answer you know...\r\nAbout when someone
    asked what it had to do with type...I did not ask about type and niether did I
    asked in the type section so what are you complaining about? Sheesh...what's the
    world coming to? I asked in regards logos and identity and its effects on society
    and people during the war and around the contextual design area so I asked in
    the DESIGN section! I don't mean to be rude sorry."
  created: '2007-05-17 14:01:41'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Jackie,\r\n\r\nSometimes truth is stranger than fiction. I am not sure any
    of us are quite creative enough to invent a character as entertaining as missgiggles.
    But you're not the first to wonder."
  created: '2007-05-17 14:52:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Miss G, your question \"What does Mickey Mouse and the Swaztika have in common
    and what differences?\" is such a combination of freshness, energy, muddle, pedantry,
    and bad grammar and spelling as to deserve landing in some kind of 'student topic
    hall of fame.' \r\n\r\nJudging by history, it seems that you can be as muddled
    as you like and get along fine as a designer. But professional designers generally
    believe in craftsmanship, and sloppiness is something many of them won't forgive.
    And these professionals include your potential future bosses.   \r\n\r\nSo just
    for your edification here is an inferior but grammatical revision of your topic
    question: \r\n\r\n\"What do Mickey Mouse and the Swastika have in common as symbols
    and what are their differences?\"  "
  created: '2007-05-17 15:26:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Your interjection of \"as symbols\" is distortive.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-17 15:37:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">distortive\r\n\r\nI think you should become Miss G's tutor :) "
  created: '2007-05-17 15:50:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Too late.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-17 16:06:24'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Okay - it's a day later. Thank you all for your concern about my poor little
    dog. \r\n\r\nThe other dog, Lauren has been running around searching - including
    going many times to the last place she saw Bogie. I hope she will be okay. She
    always knew how to keep to herself for long periods of time -- it was Bogie that
    forced her to play, run, skip, jump and dance. (Yep the two of them would cha
    cha cha all over the living room.)\r\n\r\nAs for swatstikas and Mickey Mouse -
    it is a laugh and a topic that to me, does not make sense here -- even in the
    \"design\" column.\r\n\r\nIf you continue your research you will learn such lovely
    words as:\r\n\r\n\"For the sheer power of the graphics,\" the sculptor Ernest
    Trova once said, \"Mickey Mouse is rivaled only by the Coca-Cola trademark and
    the swastika.\"\r\n\r\nand I think you have twisted what Ernest Trova said into
    this ridiculous question.\r\n\r\nOr maybe you stumbled across a little bit of
    information in an anti-nazi campaign of the 30s - where Goebbels was portrayed
    as a mouse with a swastika -- in an attempt to allow the masses to know that the
    master race was not being controlled by the master race.\r\n\r\nPerhaps you are
    a fan of the art director Chip Kidd - who once said, \"\"...Graphic Design, if
    you wield it effectively, is Power. Power to transmit ideas that change everything.
    Power that can destroy an entire race or save a nation from despair. In this century,
    Germany chose to do the former with the swastika, and America opted for the latter
    with Mickey Mouse and Superman.\"\r\n\r\nand somehow in your giggly mind I think
    you take pleasure in antagonizing -- being familiar with some of your threads,
    I have noticed you just like to pick a topic, maybe confuse it even, and try to
    get people to jump. You probably don't even care what they are saying or how they
    are saying it. And if someone is oppose to what you say - you change your meaning
    in mid-stream. If some one is with you - oh, wait - I haven't found that yet,
    so I cannot comment.\r\n\r\n********\r\n\r\nI do thank you for taking my mind
    off my grief even only for a moment. \r\n\r\nI will now say kaddish for tens of
    millions of deaths, that includes 6 million jews, 6 million gypsy and Eastern
    Europeans, soldiers and civilians from all nations. Among that I will say an extra
    prayer for my own family members who did not survive the war. Followed by prayers
    for my mother, grandmother, great aunt, uncle - all of whom I've missed for the
    past 25 years and a special prayer for Bogie.\r\n\r\nPlease try to be careful
    Miss Giggles - life is very short. The world is smaller than you think. And since
    I'm going for cliches - What comes around -- goes around.  Perhaps thinking what
    you really want to say and add to the community before writing would be a great
    asset to your future endeavors.\r\n\r\n*****\r\nP.S. I see you have taken a shorter
    version of your quesiton to Yahoo\r\nhttp://answers.yahoo.com/question/index?qid=20070424135335AA3XJeQ\r\nand
    didn't get much of a response.\r\n\r\nMaybe that is the answer..."
  created: '2007-05-17 16:29:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The murder of my grandparents paved the way for that of yours.\r\nBut the
    convenient, one-sided denial continues.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-17 16:52:00'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: '[deleted]'
  created: '2007-05-17 17:03:55'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Well, maybe I should just say thank you Ms Giggles for making me think. I
    looked around the internet and came across an interesting article for you. You
    see - the ban on Mickey Mouse just didn't sit right. I could understand Hitler
    wanted his swastika on children's uniforms being first and foremost... \r\n\r\nAnd
    Popeye did a much better job reaching the establishment about being pro-American
    during those same years. You should if you find them check out his cartoons.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile
    I came across this and thought it might help you out a bit. Of all the crap out
    there, this at least has a sense of research and intelligence.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.freewebs.com/banmickey/theproof.htm"
  created: '2007-05-17 18:21:14'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: Jackie, I really appreciate everyone's advice and comments. I do read them.
    I am not the kind of person people on here think. I do sympathise with your situation
    because I have been in bad situations myself when it comes to loosing beloved
    people may it be human or pet but sometimes we have to keep career as career and
    personal life as personal life beacuse for example a teacher's relationship with
    her partner is getting bad to worse and nearly ending in divorce. She comes in
    angry in class and punishes the students by her agitated, agressive behaviour
    and tells the kids off for somethign they didn't do. That is really unfair. I
    feel like I am being punished for your dog passing away and it's not even my fault.
    This puts someone down totally and why would you want to do that for? Lots of
    peopel ahve lost their beloved partners etc to cancer, war, accidents etc but
    you certainly don't go punishing others. As for the advice. I really appreciate
    your help. Please keep the above in mind. I totally believe in 'What comes around
    goes around' but I didn;t do anything to cause your dog passing away so why do
    you want to punish me for? You know what, I can't be botehred to keep going anymore.
    You are all adults on here and you should all know the difference between right
    and wrong by now, surely! I am just as human as the rest of you.
  created: '2007-05-17 19:01:34'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Miss Giggles\r\n\r\nI will once again, as I have in previous threads, reminded
    you that because you do not hear intonations, see facial gestures or know the
    person the is writing -- or the style of writing -- that you seem to not grasp
    a comprehension of what is being written to you.\r\n\r\nWhat I have written has
    nothing, not a thing, to do with Bogie. It does have to do with the stupidity
    of your original posting in this thread.\r\n\r\nIs that clear enough now?\r\n\r\nand
    here is a P.S. for you to comprehend. Though it is more than 30 years ago, I received
    my BA from University, and have forgotten so much of what I learned, I did not
    study graphic arts there. I hold a BA in Europeean History 1805-1945, and find
    this \"design discussion\" too much off the wall for anyone serious to contend
    with. Please, go talk to Chip Kidd instead - you can find him at Random House
    in NYC. You can talk about Mickey's 4 limbs being bent out of shape - and ohhhh,
    maybe it looks like a swastika."
  created: '2007-05-17 22:06:23'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: No need to be nasty now and what was the 'Well, maybe I should just say thank
    you Ms Giggles for making me think' phrase above? Now now, I hear myself cry...is
    my thread really that stupid?
  created: '2007-05-17 22:38:00'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: Good night Miss Giggles.
  created: '2007-05-17 23:08:07'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: God bless...
  created: '2007-05-18 10:14:17'
date: '2007-05-12 17:34:23'
node_type: forum
title: Whats does Mickey Mouse and the Swaztika have in common and what differences?

---
