---
author:
  name: George Horton
body: "This is a natural antidepressant designed for effectiveness rather than minimal
  side-effects, to be sold in shops. I'm looking for a sans for packaging and a serif
  for an unusually full and friendly guide to usage, accompanying a titling sans that
  would ideally be the same as that for packaging, so the two need to pair well. The
  guide will include a course of boiled down cognitive/behavioural therapy and be
  more of a little book than an ordinary medication insert.\r\n\r\nThe packaging sans
  must be readable and recognisable from a distance, and of suitable character - whatever
  you think that should be: I'm interested in what you would want if you needed such
  a product. The serif should be inviting but authoritatively non-contemporary - certainly
  not in the least po-mo or cute - and surprisingly beautiful. Though it shouldn't
  be as rootedly and obviously historical as a Caslon, actual great age isn't a problem.\r\n\r\nI'd
  be really grateful for ideas; I haven't, after much searching, found a good solution
  yet."
comments:
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Optima seems like a good font for an antidepressant package. Hell, it's even
    a good name for an anitdepressant.*\r\n\r\nFor the documentation, I presume it
    is something more user friendly than the usual tightly folded pamphlet in microscopic
    print that typically comes with prescription drugs (a serif font would not be
    suitable there). Give Leawood a shot.\r\n\r\n*(Of course, naming drugs has to
    be done very carefully, such that one can't be mistaken for another even when
    written in a doctor's handwriting. There have been too many tragedies with people
    getting Prozac instead of Prilosec and even worse substitutions.)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: elizabeth_355
      picture: 112087
    body: "I transcribed medical reports for many years. Unfortunately there are too
      many drugs with soundalike names, and at least in the U.S. the drug makers don't
      try very hard to choose names that don't sound like anything else. One reason
      I got out of medical transcription is that I was expected to be able to read
      the doctor's mind & tell whether s/he meant Avelox, which is moxifloxacin HCl,
      a quinolone antibiotic, OR Aveloz, an unproven cancer drug. Or Murelax, a tranquilizer,
      OR MiraLax, a laxative.\r\n\r\nJust out of curiosity, in what country is this
      powerful non-prescription antidepressant to be available?"
    created: '2007-05-16 19:26:40'
  created: '2007-05-14 18:27:52'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "For the serif, have a look at <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/33765\">the
    list</a> I made for Karen last night. She had similar requirements.\r\n\r\nCan
    you tell us more about what characteristics the sans should have? <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/fontfont/ff_daxline_ot/\">FF
    Daxline</a> seems made for medicine:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/stewf/376075599/\"
    title=\"Photo Sharing\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/376075599_7816536eb1_o_5331.jpg]</a>"
  created: '2007-05-14 18:30:05'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "I think the actual purpose of this thing is more important than the fact
    it's a medication. Imagine you're a genuinely depressed non-designer: for weeks
    or months things your chest has ached with psychosomatic misery; you can no longer
    remember or imagine feeling pleasure, but can still feel relief; you'd rather
    not see your doctor to get a prescription antidepressant, and you drag yourself
    to the chemist perhaps to get some of that St John's Wort you've heard about,
    but quite likely for some other reason. What would you go for: a box labelled
    Zibexoline set in Daxline, or another called Soul Healer set in, at an extreme,
    Storm Sebastian? It's a genuine question, and the answer might lie between the
    two. \r\n\r\nGerard Unger is interested in people's attitudes to medication, and
    they're usually terrified of them, finding their inserts - set in Times, Helvetica
    or Frutiger - particularly inhuman (too authoritarian, too distant, too ignoble?).
    This must go double for any psychiatric medication, which is one reason for the
    popularity of \"natural\" treatments. \r\n\r\nI reckon inserts also fail to answer
    most of the questions people want to ask: what exactly is this doing to me, and
    why? What might I feel like, in all respects, at first, and for how long? Does
    this fade out gradually or suddenly, and does it coincide with a similar transition
    to wellness? How will I feel in the long term? What's the likelihood of each side-effect?
    What's the likelihood of the medication's working, wholly or partially, and when
    will I know? What should I do if it doesn't work at all or in part, or if it feels
    too strong, or if I do suffer from common or rare side-effects? \r\n\r\nSo the
    guide will be detailed, authoritative but not authoritarian, kindly and concerned
    but not presumptively and joshingly intimate, and noble-spirited; it will be immaculately
    set in some suitable and, as I've said and in particular, <em>surprisingly</em>
    beautiful serif with sans titling. But which? To give an indicator, even Deepdene
    might not be too much for the serif."
  created: '2007-05-14 22:02:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I know one person who's heavily involved in and highly\r\nconcerned with
    medication typography: Karel van der\r\nWaarde. Plus he's a very nice guy, so
    you might want\r\nto get in touch with him. If you do, please say hi!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-15 01:06:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Sometimes the 'obvious is better than the obvious avoidance of the obvious':\r\n\r\nBliss
    and Goudy Old Style--the Lanston version with the full descenders--are the first
    things I think of. I don't know how they will work together, though. "
  created: '2007-05-15 01:16:13'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Thanks both of you. I think this is a project for which the obvious is less
    good than the (obvious) avoidance of the obvious. No product has as much emotionally
    invested in it by its user, and needs to be more inspiring of hope, than an antidepressant.
    For one thing, there's the placebo effect to consider.\r\n\r\nThe best bet for
    the serif I've seen so far is LTC Kaatskill - what a good-looking type, by the
    way - rather than Deepdene or Goudy Old Style. I've never been much of a Goudy
    Old Style fan, though the LTC version is certainly eye-openingly superior to whatever
    version(s) I've seen in print. Bliss certainly has the right name..."
  created: '2007-05-15 02:57:18'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "I don't think that when you are depressed something perky is appealing.  I
    think it's even more depressing.  I don't have any study to back that up though.
    \ I think something light and yet strong would work, if that makes sense.  I would
    think the name should make sense as an antidepressant without being overly clever.
    \ You can't think things through very well when  you are depressed. \r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2007-05-15 03:20:03'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "I agree that perkiness, which is common in the work of the last fifteen years,
    is no good for this. Kaatskill is perkier than is ideal, but I haven't found anything
    better yet. Bembo book, my default choice - just because it's so much better (I
    do believe in better and worse) than all but three or four text faces - is too
    distant; perhaps JY Aetna could work? With Haarlemmer Sans? For the name, \"Soul
    Healer\" is probably a bit much, too: \"Mood Healer\" is perhaps better: it at
    least cuts straight to the point. Other ideas are very welcome. \r\n\r\nActually
    this is my own product: I'm aiming to start a little company to produce it, having
    come to learn far too much about the psychopharmacology and biological psychiatry
    of mood disorders following my own rather in-depth experience of one of them.
    Trying many medications without success may have biased me; perhaps the suffering
    is less, and the expectation of reasonable but not total efficacy greater, for
    most people considering a non-prescription antidepressant. In reality, it's more
    common for antidepressants to work brilliantly or not at all."
  created: '2007-05-15 17:11:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I don''t know why I didn''t think of it right away, but Typophiler Kris Sowersby''s
    new <a href="http://vllg.com/KLIM/Feijoa/mudTyper+Weights/">Feijoa</a> would be
    great. I feel better just looking at it :)   '
  created: '2007-05-15 17:22:50'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "I'm currently a Rumba addict.  I think it has an uplifting look and yet still
    looks strong.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/moodhealer_5719.jpg]\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2007-05-15 21:50:42'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Thanks. I think Feijoa and Rumba are a too intimate. I don't know why I didn't
    think of MT Dante - not perky at all, but thoroughly friendly. This would be a
    situation in which the extra width of Monotype's version - presumably to avoid
    embarrassing small sizes - would be more welcome than the austerity of the unavailable
    SV cut.
  created: '2007-05-16 00:12:10'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'For the sans i might consider Palatino Sans, i''ve saw it printed in a book
    recently and quite liked it! I think it''s friendly enough without being saccharin.
    Of course the natural pairing serif would be something from Zapf: Rennaisance
    Antiqua or maybe Aldus or Palatino.'
  created: '2007-05-16 00:21:11'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Yup, Palatino Sans is really impressive: creamy and expressive, and thanks
    for the idea.\r\n\r\nMind reading is rarely infallible, even for computer <em>geniuses</em>.
    I've been advised to market the antidepressant to professional, web-forum depressives
    first, over the internet - so anywhere. Based on studies of a combination with
    the same mechanism of action as two of my components have, it should be effective
    for at least 60-70% of even clomipramine- or phenelzine-resistant people, and
    it's getting that mechanism from a herbal extract plus an amino acid that's my
    hopefully patentable big idea. With good reports from the chronically ill, I'll
    aim for UK shops. Selling things to the big chains of chemists is a nightmare
    in the UK, and I imagine in the US too, but to do a substantial amount of good
    for both humanity and my finances it'll have to be done."
  created: '2007-05-16 20:47:37'
- author:
    name: elizabeth_355
    picture: 112087
  body: Sounds great, George. Good luck with your venture! And I think the Palatino
    fonts are lovely.
  created: '2007-05-16 22:24:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Paul, where did you see the Palatino Sans in print? Initially I didn''t have
    a favorable impression of Palatino Sans, though I am generally a fan of Zapf.
    I would like to have another look.  '
  created: '2007-05-17 01:12:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Linotype has a comprehensive print specimen booklet,\r\nwhich I myself used
    to write a (short) review recently.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-17 01:31:29'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'Hermann Zapf was in Rochester over the weekend, and was signing copies of
    his new book: <em>Alphabet Stories</em>, which has some text set in Palatino Sans.
    I found the r a bit distracting, esp in the rt combination, and maybe 1 or 2 more
    quirks, but overall, i thought it was rather nice.'
  created: '2007-05-17 03:51:02'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Paul, did you have a chance to talk to him at all?
  created: '2007-05-17 04:02:38'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: just for 1 minute, it was kind of hectic with everyone wanting a book signed.
    but he and his wife were very kind and gracious. it was probably an experience
    for a lifetime for me.
  created: '2007-05-17 04:39:49'
- author:
    name: writingdesigning
    picture: 112522
  body: 'If Palatino Sans is the direction you''re looking for, then would perhaps
    Sassoon, or even Shannon be options?  '
  created: '2007-05-17 15:21:24'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: Beorcana
  created: '2007-05-17 22:48:57'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> experience for a lifetime for me </cite>\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2007-05-17 23:53:09'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Thanks for the suggestions; I'm not sure the calligraphic quality of Beorcana
    is really relevantly suggestive, and Sassoon would make these pills rather too
    tempting to five-year-old fingers, Actually, Palatino Sans is at the furthest
    degree of cuddliness I think is appropriate. Haarlemmer sans is friendlier than
    you'd expect for a JvK derivative - I think friendlier than the fabulous Romulus
    Sans (now there's something worth viving).
  created: '2007-05-19 20:15:40'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Hi George,\r\n\r\nI made comment in the \"type for a chocolate company\"
    thread that I think is relevant in any \"type for a _ _ _ _ _ _ \" thread:\r\n\r\nIn
    essence my point was this: \r\n\r\nThere is so much that contributes to successful
    graphic design. Type choices are an integral component to be sure (and much beloved
    by us all). However, I think it is a mistake to say, \"I'm designing for a children's
    clothing line... let's start by selecting a font.\" I realize you're giving us
    additional info here, but what would be most helpful is to see your design direction.
    We need to know what your idea is. Show us your bottle, is it tall and skinny,
    is it short and stubby. Tell us about the illustration you're going to use. Is
    the emphasis NATURAL anti-depressant or is it natural ANIT DEPRESSANT? These will
    decide what the type choice should be.\r\n\r\nFor example: You can sell tea using
    Priori ala Tazo, or you can sell tea using Helvetica ala Stash, or Windsor Bold
    ala Celestial Seasonings. These packaging solution accomplish a design goal and
    carve out a niche on the shelf. I doubt Sandstrom design started with Priori.
    Maybe, but more likely they started with a direction: the language of alchemy
    applied to brewing tea. And the results are much stronger for it I think.\r\n\r\nIn
    other words:\r\nBembo could work.\r\nSauna could work.\r\nBeorcana could work.\r\nOr
    they could all flop.\r\n\r\nThe more you give us, the more we can help.\r\n\r\nGood
    luck!\r\nRandy"
  created: '2007-05-19 21:02:05'
- author:
    name: jmickel
    picture: 111302
  body: "<cite>You can sell tea using Priori ala Tazo</cite>\r\n\r\nRandy, I think
    it was actually Exocet they used for Tazo.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-20 00:58:18'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "JLM you make me smile, and make my point exactly. Was it Priori, or Exocet
    or was it Mason, or was it...\r\n\r\nBTW, I'm not saying type's not important,
    nor that you can't get and idea for a design from a typeface, or even that type
    can't be the entire focus of the design ... just that type generally needs to
    live within an idea for it to yeild effective graphic design.\r\n\r\nEnough already
    from me ... R"
  created: '2007-05-20 04:04:02'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Randy, you're absolutely right, and can probably tell I'm not a graphic designer.
    \r\n\r\nIn truth this will be a natural ANTIDEPRESSANT, but would a large proportion
    of people, given the fear of side-effects or mind-distorting euphoria, and especially
    among those going \"alternative\", prefer something that didn't say \"THIS IS
    HARDCORE\"? The commonest requests among patients coming to a doctor about their
    depression for the first time is for a \"potent\" or \"mild\" antidepressant -
    which it more often I don't know - even though there's no such distinction among
    first-line antidepressants (and no possibility, unless they're bipolar, of euphoria).
    \r\nIt seems that it's products about which customers have no fear of side-effects
    or overkill, like (ridiculous) branded ibuprofen, that are most likely to be packaged
    as hardcore.\r\n\r\nHere's a pic of the kind of thing the image could be like.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Wheat
    5 small edited_4985.jpg]\r\n\r\nText will be in the sky, of which there should
    be more, covering the top half and a bit of a large 3x2x2 card pack about the
    width and height of a small paperback. The whole package should look high-end,
    aptly expensive, since the product will have to be more expensive than competitors.
    Inside will be smaller card packs, labelled just MH for discretion's sake, to
    fit in a handbag, each containing a week's supply of tablets. Tablets will be
    dark, shiny, rounded, not the gel-caps usual for natural stuff. \r\n\r\nHere is
    a potted history of antidepressant branding. It's pretty funny in the early stages.
    The progress is obviously from illustrating depression to illustration happy-happy
    joy-joy.\r\n\r\nNardil, the original (1950s) and still the best:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Nardil
    1_4412.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nTofranil, just after:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tofranil_5820.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nAnafranil,
    a 70s (?) competitor to Tofranil:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Anafranil_4393.JPG]\r\n\r\n\r\nThe
    modern rubbish: the latest SSRI and the best branded natural antidepressant, Amoryn.
    Stylised suns or actual sunlight are the commonest images for natural antidepressant
    branding.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Modern antidepressants_4689.JPG]"
  created: '2007-05-20 18:19:16'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I wonder if the nicest thing might be just a fairly plain approach. Everytime
    I see a drug being 'dressed up for the ball' in it's graphic design the more I
    wonder about it. A straightforeward, no frills, but well made design might be
    ideal from point of view.\r\n\r\nBTW. How safe is this drug/nutricutical or whatever
    it is? "
  created: '2007-05-20 18:31:58'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "(Somewhat tangential)\r\n\r\nIf it's in the USA, and it's a \"natural\" or
    \"herbal\" product, it is not regulated by the FDA, nor is any sort of testing
    required, for either safety or efficacy. If people taking them have negative reactions
    or health problems due to the product, the makers aren't even required to report
    it to the FDA.\r\n\r\nAbout the only time that regulatory agencies come into it
    is if the claims being made are so blatantly false that they amount to false advertising.
    Sometimes the FTC will step in and halt ads in these cases. There's actually been
    a *lot* of this with weight loss products making blatantly false claims and getting
    fined for it. (e.g. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CortiSlim).\r\n\r\nI'm not opposed
    to \"natural remedies.\" I just wish they were tested for safety (and preferably
    efficacy as well) to the same degree as \"drugs.\"\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-05-20 22:05:28'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: Perhaps something by Underware - Dolly and Auto? Sauna?
  children:
  - author:
      name: andrewkerrb
      picture: 112552
    body: "I like the different weights of Dax......although I haven't read the whole
      thread ![img:sites/default/files/old-images/BASKER_4263.jpg]\r\n"
    created: '2007-05-23 23:24:57'
  created: '2007-05-23 12:38:53'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "I love the construction of Dolly, but I think it's too intimate.\r\nDunno
    about Dax or Baskerville for titling. Monotype Baskerville in particular is one
    of the types that most depresses me when I open a mail-ordered book, and though
    there are now some really good Baskervilles I find them a bit monotonously broad."
  created: '2007-05-24 00:18:29'
- author:
    name: andrewkerrb
    picture: 112552
  body: "\r\n\r\nGio, what's you prefered choice at the moment?\r\n\r\n\r\nCheers"
  created: '2007-05-24 00:34:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, the typical Baskerville lc \"a\" is infinitely depressing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-24 00:39:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Healium_5200.jpg]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-24 01:00:59'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Hi Andrew, so far, and a bit embarrassingly after so many helpful suggestions,
    it's Haarlemmer Sans and Dante MT. \r\n\r\nWhat's that font, Hrant? And was the
    MT Baskerville 'a' some kind of intern's private joke, or was there a fantastic
    jog to a slide-rule somewhere along the line?"
  created: '2007-05-24 05:33:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That's Patria's Italic.\r\nFor that setting I might actually try tilting
    the bar of the \"H\"\r\nto match the bar in the \"e\". It might look quite...
    uplifting.\r\n\r\nI don't know what caused Monotype to make such an ugly\r\nglyph.
    In the original Baskerville the \"a\" isn't great, but\r\nit's not so blatantly
    pig-faced.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-24 05:53:37'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: '"Healium" is brilliant. :-)'
  children:
  - author:
      name: Palatine
      picture: 110988
    body: "Seconded.\r\n\r\nIs Patria available for purchase? I certainly like what
      I see . . . "
    created: '2007-05-25 12:54:55'
  created: '2007-05-24 05:55:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Patria is available for purchase, and I've sold a few copies, but it's technically\r\nnot
    finished yet; I expect it to be finished by next year's special type issue of
    Eye\r\nmagazine. However, anybody buying now gets a free upgrade to any future\r\nversions,
    as well as the ability to influence future versions.\r\nhpapazian_at_gmail_dot_com\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-25 16:40:27'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: Thanks, hrant.
  created: '2007-05-26 13:53:01'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: 'Well, I ended up using the lovely Bliss small caps and caps for the label
    in the end, so thanks very much William.  I used Bell Centennial Address for a
    good quantity of tiny text, too: it''s seriously well-made, and is magically efficient
    and legible at 7.6 pt. I tried out lots of small-text types, and though Bell Centennial
    demolished the competition, <a href="http://www.linotype.com/158369/sansno1-font.html">Sans
    No 1</a> is a nice bit of old-school work too. The front panel, which is now the
    only image, looks like this so far: it''ll need tweaking, and the colours of the
    floriation might change.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mh_5757.png]Any ideas
    for what changes might be made? Once again, I''m no graphic designer, so I shan''t
    be offended by anything.'
  created: '2007-06-29 00:09:47'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "It's lovely. I can't tell that you aren't a designer. \r\n\r\nI'm not sure
    why Healer is in lowercase and MOOD is not."
  created: '2007-06-29 06:20:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Yes, it is lovely, but something in it looks a bit unfinished. \r\n\r\nI
    had been trying to figure out what doesn't quite work about the difference case
    between the two words. On reflection I think the problem is that there is no difference
    in importance between your two words, but there is a difference in case, so the
    difference in case raises a subliminal question in the mind of the reader that
    there isn't any answer to. \r\n\r\nAlso the old style numerals here look too big,
    giving the number of capsules too much importance, as if the fact that there are
    168 rather than 150 is a big deal. \r\n\r\nIt may also be that some kind of further
    treatment of the Bliss--a fine outline stroke?--might help. It is lovely, but
    not quite 'there' is my feeling. \r\n\r\nStill, if you don't find a better solution,
    this is good enough to go with. "
  created: '2007-06-29 14:08:49'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Thanks, I'll work on your suggestions.
  created: '2007-06-29 20:53:24'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Any better? The 168 isn't perfect, but it's the best I can do, while keeping
    CAPSULES in small caps, with Bliss' range of weights. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/mh2_4015.png]
  created: '2007-07-04 18:13:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, if you really want to make the \"168\" lining, all you have to do\r\nis
    grab the head of the \"1\" in Illustrator or whatever and pull it up. :-)\r\nHey,
    you're lucky it's not a 2!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-04 18:45:55'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Yep, Hrant's right. Because the '1' is straight it won't [[squoosh]] the
    design. Use the hollow arrow tool to select the top portion (leave the bottom
    two points) and then move it up to match the height of the other numerals.\r\n\r\nI
    think this label looks great."
  created: '2007-07-04 20:45:55'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "This looks great, George.  Congratulations on your design.  \r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2007-07-04 23:23:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "George, I actually preferred the symmetry of the first version you showed.
    It combines the calm and exuberance in a lovely way. \r\n\r\nI just got an idea
    on how to preserve that and create symmetry in 'healer'. You could have the final
    R as well as the H in healer as a cap, the rest small caps, so 'mood' and 'healer'
    align. Then you could try putting a stroke across the leg of the R indicating
    the 'Rx' symbol. Maybe it will be too corny, but it might be worth a try.   "
  created: '2007-07-05 14:47:49'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Thanks all of you. I tried out your idea, William, but in the flesh it looked
    a bit confused. And using the Rx sign would have the FDA crush me in seconds.
  created: '2007-07-05 17:47:40'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I feel the 6 is a gnat\u2019s high, it could be a screen issue. I much prefer
    the type without an outline and although in that version the cap H is a problem
    an answer could be to use small caps for HEALER.\r\nI would also look at removing
    or reducing the weight of stroke on the circle. What kind of bottle or package
    does this appear on? I wonder if a circle is the best shape rather than, say,
    a horizontal ellipse, I see a circle working better on a package with an overall
    squarish appearance while an ellipse might work better on a taller package.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-07-07 11:15:30'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Would you prefer this (for a wide label on a bottle)?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mh3_4057.png]
  created: '2007-07-07 19:16:34'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Title-wise yes simpler and clear, I still find that black stroke overbearing
    though. Have you tried a mock-up on the bottle, it\u2019s the best way to decide
    on the relative proportions of the elements.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-07-07 19:47:19'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Yes, I've mocked up a bottle, it looks fine. Do you like this, then? I think
    I prefer my second version, when slightly cleaned up.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mh4_3781.png]"
  created: '2007-07-08 20:47:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "There are laws governing the promises that drugs and nutraceuticals may make,
    and it's doubtful that mood healing would pass muster.\r\n\r\nIn the US, DSHEA
    allows, without FDA authorization, the use of so-called \"structurexfunction\"
    claims, such as this for gingko biloba, which many people take for memory loss
    or to treat Alzheimer's disease: \"Increases oxygen supply to the brain.\"\r\n\r\nIn
    other words, you can't claim that a nutraceutical treats any condition, real or
    manufactured, that requires a medical diagnosis.\r\nAnd there is a difference
    between a passing sorrow (or joy) and clinical depression.\r\n\r\nIf you want
    this design to smack of reality, I would suggest a name change."
  created: '2007-07-08 22:46:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Dude, \"Healium\".\r\nFor one thing, humor is the most potent anti-depressant.\r\nAnd
    don't you want to \"lift\" their spirits?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-09 05:20:53'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: For a long time humour was thought to be the most potent antidepressant; recently,
    though, it was found that the bitter suffering of one's enemies, with the placing
    of sensible limitations on the success of one's friends, was still more effective.
  created: '2007-07-09 12:29:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK then, \"Schadenfreud Booster Pills\". :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-09 15:03:24'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Hi Nick, I'm well versed in the regulations, and as you say, one's not allowed
    to claim to treat, cure or prevent any of the depressive <em>disorders</em> -
    major depression, dysthymia, psychotic depression, schizoaffective disorder, or
    bipolar depression. Neither is one allowed to use the word \"antidepressant\"
    (though one major competitor does so illegally), and it'd be sensible to use the
    word \"depression\" only with an addition to the disclaimer pointing out that
    it can refer to a mood state as well as to a depressive disorder. \"Mood\" is
    not off-limits though, and \"depressed mood\" is exactly what one can claim to
    heal/remedy/soothe/any other word without formal medical significance. The medical
    definition of major depression, for instance, requires more than depressed mood
    alone: one can have \"depressed mood most of the day, nearly every day, as indicated
    by either subjective report (e.g., feels sad or empty) or observation made by
    others (e.g., appears tearful)\", <em>and</em> \"markedly diminished interest
    or pleasure in all, or almost all, activities most of the day, nearly every day\",
    and yet not qualify for DSM-IV major depression, because that diagnosis requires
    at least two further symptoms. Only 54% of those reporting both depressed mood
    and anhedonia actually qualify for the diagnosis of major depressive disorder.
    In casuistic theory, it's the 46% who miss out who ought to be taking Mood Healer.
    In reality, it will treat major depression, and, according to the research behind
    it, it should have no difficulty in matching or exceeding the 19% superiority
    of current first-line antidepressants to placebo.\r\n\r\nThe real problem with
    the name is that it's rubbish. Any suggestions for a better one that says as clearly
    what the tin does?"
  created: '2007-07-09 20:06:43'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Eben, I agree. This product of mine is, sadly, quite safe. There are about
    a dozen naturals with extremely promising results in rats, making them potentially
    much more efficacious than St John's Wort, say, but with no safety record in humans.
    I've not considered using them. \r\n\r\nThomas, the UK is slightly stricter than
    the US, and bans nutraceuticals common there which are known to be potentially
    unsafe, like Kava Kava. More efficacy and safety studies would be lovely, but
    the cost for naturals is exorbitant. No little company can afford the literally
    hundreds of millions of dollars spent on trials that the FDA requires for new
    prescription antidepressants, no pharmaceutical company is going to do the work,
    and, in the UK, NHS research on naturals accounts for only 0.1% of their total
    medication research budget. Nonetheless, there are small trials in the West and
    trials from Russia, substantial data from real-life use, investigation in hospitals
    of the sources of any med-induced problems, and impressively thorough academic
    investigation in China where 'alternative' medicine is of course mainstream. We
    know, for instance, exactly how many cases of liver toxicity have been attributed
    to Baikal Skullcap there over the last thirty years (4, out of hundreds of millions
    of patients), and whether there is any inherently liver-toxic compound in the
    herb (no; problems are due to exceptionally rare genetic abnormalities). \r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand, almost all nutraceutical formulae for the treatment of specific
    medical conditions are either fraudulent (especially with standardization claims),
    incompetent (bunging in everything with any far-Eastern reputation, randomly dosed)
    or only minimally effective (if only through inadequate dosing). "
  created: '2007-07-09 20:12:14'
date: '2007-05-14 17:33:16'
node_type: forum
title: Types for a hardcore non-prescription antidepressant

---
