---
author:
  name: lfoldes
body: "I'd like to set the title \"PhD\" all in small caps. \r\nTwo questions:\r\n1.
  Is this breaking a type or style convention?\r\n2. What resource can I site to reference
  this information?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Chicago Manual of Style (Section 7.26) says: \"The names of academic degrees
    and honors should be capitalized when following a personal name, whether abbreviated
    or written in full.\"\r\n\r\nYou could mix caps on the P and D and a small cap
    for the h...."
  created: '2007-05-15 20:37:32'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: 'What''s the California Manual of Style say? '
  created: '2007-05-15 20:45:40'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "\"Hey man, like you can, like do what you like want....\"\r\n\r\n:-)\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-15 20:47:28'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "Chicago suggests droping the periods in \"Ph.D.\" (Doctor of Philosophy),
    preserving the case distinction between the \"P\" and the \"h\", but doesn't suggest
    going any further (15.21). In Elements, Bringhurst suggests eschewing all superfluous
    punctuation (5.4.4), such as with the British take on \"Mr\", but also recommends
    using small caps for anything besides two-letter geographical acronyms and proper
    names (3.2.2)\u2014the logic being that in some faces, full caps will be intrusive
    and mar the color of the page. If this seems to be the case with a given face
    for the word phrase \"PhD\", then it would only be consistent to treat similar,
    mixed-case abbreviations (such as Mr, Dr, Jr) in like fashion. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: lfoldes
    body: Thanks for the references!
    created: '2007-05-15 21:01:44'
  created: '2007-05-15 20:52:43'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: As much as I respect Bringhurst as a writer and designer, as a professional
    editor, I wouldn't use him as a style reference.
  created: '2007-05-15 21:07:19'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I'll second that. Sometimes his suggestions seem a little <em>too</em> artistic.
  created: '2007-05-15 21:09:02'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Which sometimes means he ignores standard practices, and that can lead to
    decreasing comprehension by readers.  Doing that is definite no-no in the big,
    wide, and goofy world of editorial standards....
  created: '2007-05-15 21:17:17'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: 'He is a very good poet. '
  created: '2007-05-15 21:31:00'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "I tend to agree with that take. But Elements is probably the closest Livia
    is going to come to published justication for the choice. Like a the multitude
    of cool, different choices a designer can make (the whole <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/33045\">guillemets</a>
    debate comes to mind), it's something the editor, the reader, and even the designer\u2014it
    cool and different isn't it?\u2014aren't going to be used to, and possibly reject."
  created: '2007-05-15 21:34:38'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>As much as I respect Bringhurst as a writer and designer . . . </cite>\r\n\r\nBetter
    drop the \"designer.\" I don't think he's designed anything, at least, not since
    his days as a poet when he & a bunch of friends drew straws to see who was going
    to have to learn about making books so they could publish their poems.\r\n\r\nHe
    was a juror for the AAUP Book Show one year -- 1997 or 1998? There is a session
    in the program where the jurors get up & discuss their own design work. Bringhurst
    showed some works of art, starting with some paintings from the Renaissance. Nice
    talk, but no designs by Bringhurst.\r\n\r\nAs for PhD, treat it just like you'd
    treat GmbH or MoMA (in other words, don't just use small caps)."
  created: '2007-05-15 22:50:50'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>Better drop the \u201Cdesigner.\u201D I don\u2019t think he\u2019s designed
    anything, at least, not since his days as a poet when he & a bunch of friends
    drew straws to see who was going to have to learn about making books so they could
    publish their poems.</em>\r\n\r\nSorry to disappoint you, Charles, but he won
    The Alcuin Society's prize for Prose Non-Fiction Design last month: <a href=\"http://www.alcuinsociety.com/awards/2006/index.html#pnf\">here</a>
    is a link to the announcement."
  created: '2007-05-15 23:03:19'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Recently it was my task to \u2018calm down\u2019 a text churned up by all-caps
    names, acronyms & abbrevations. I intentionally wanted to break with conventions,
    as it just felt wrong to emphasize the formally necessary but negligible entourage
    of supplements instead of the actual message, by optical means.\r\nMixing caps
    w/ small caps even increased the \u2018noise\u2019. All small caps seemed to be
    only the second-best option: distinction would be leveled, information lost.\r\nSo
    I ended up trying a mix of small caps w/ lower case\u2014a rather unusual & delicate
    approach, I guess. And, besides the text sort, the particular font in use being
    the linchpin of success, of course.\r\nWhat do you think, is that a reasonable
    alternative?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GmbH_5911.png]\r\n(<em>GmbH
    & Co. KG</em> is\u2014with this notation\u2014the conventional abbrevation of
    the business organisation that would be something like a LLC in the US.)"
  created: '2007-05-15 23:17:55'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: That's an interesting take, Florian -- I certainly don't have a problem with
    it.
  created: '2007-05-15 23:26:22'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I'm not disappointed Bringhurst won a design award, just wasn't aware he'd
    ever done any beyond the poetry. Glad he's finally practicing what he preaches.\r\n\r\nAs
    to the small caps lower case letters -- looks fine in the samples shown. Probably
    only works when the small caps are a bit taller than x-height, though that can
    usually be \"arranged.\" In my business, you'd also have to watch for an angry
    editor; we work for one publisher where the editorial department decided that
    since GmbH <cite>might</cite> appear in the backmatter (and since notes and bibliographies
    tend to be visually broken up anyway), there will be no small caps in backmatter,
    at all."
  created: '2007-05-16 00:46:28'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>I\u2019m not disappointed Bringhurst won a design award, just wasn\u2019t
    aware he\u2019d ever done any beyond the poetry. Glad he\u2019s finally practicing
    what he preaches.</em>\r\n\r\nStrangely enough, if you Google \"bringhurst+designer\",
    you get great swacks of hits with things like \"designer Robert Bringhurst\" in
    them, so I'm not sure that this was a particularly recent phenomenon.  It's also
    my understanding that he did Elements, at least in the beginning...."
  created: '2007-05-16 05:40:36'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: BTW, what is the abbreviation of "Permanent Head Damage"?
  created: '2007-05-16 07:49:49'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Can you really use the verb \"to preach\" for Robert Bringhurst (or Bringhurst's),
    Charles Ellertson\u2014\u2014if yes, why ?"
  created: '2007-05-16 08:32:28'
- author:
    name: msilverz
    picture: 109851
  body: '*The Economist* uses Florian''s solution. They set ''PhD'' in a mix of small
    caps and lowercase. It looks somewhat strange (with the ascender of the lowercase
    ''h'' high above the small cap ''P'' and ''D''), but I prefer it to the other
    solutions.'
  created: '2007-05-16 13:50:33'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: 'Another solution: if the font has ordinal letters, use small caps for the
    P and D, and shift the baseline on one of those superscripted h''s  for the h. '
  created: '2007-05-16 14:37:00'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>you\u2019d also have to watch for an angry editor</cite>\r\nThat\u2019s
    very right. But at least they can\u2019t claim it\u2019s the \u2018wrong case\u2019.
    (Oh well, editors <em>will</em> complain anyway as long as it isn\u2019t ugly
    yet.)\r\n\r\nThank you, Matthew, for this information. So it\u2019s legitimate,
    hooray! ;-)\r\nThe Economist, no wonder \u2026 indeed, it\u2019s economic, concerning
    space.\r\n\r\n<cite>It looks somewhat strange</cite>\r\nand\r\n<cite>works when
    the small caps are a bit taller than x-height</cite>\r\nYes, the method really
    depends on the font <strong>and</strong> the affected letters. I tried it out
    on a group of honourable people, with different results (orthodox way on top,
    \u2018calmed down\u2019 on bottom\u2014notice how the \u2018core names\u2019 emerge
    from their title junk.):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/abbr_4352.gif]\r\n\r\nWhile
    Linda\u2019s prefix really does well, the Diplom-Ingenieur looks kinda odd, imho.
    The i.R. (German suffix for \u2018retired\u2019) is quirky, too.\r\n\r\nBy the
    way, the actual names (w/out titles) are (even \u2018more\u2019) sacrosanct, aren\u2019t
    they? Or would anyone small-capitalise LeRoy\u2019s \u2018R\u2019\u2014let alone
    the E.T.A.?\r\n\r\nEric, that\u2019s true for a PhD or a Dr\u2014but certainly
    fails with a Lieutenant Colonel."
  created: '2007-05-16 16:55:37'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: ";-)  Thanks, Florian, although technically here it would be L.M. Cunningham,
    M.E.Des. (or MEDes, which I'm not quite as keen on because it doesn't read as
    well -- to me anyway!).\r\n\r\nAlso agree with you that the others are somewhat
    off-putting."
  created: '2007-05-16 17:09:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>works when the small caps are a bit taller than x-height</em>\r\n\r\nMost
    fonts have small caps that are too close to x-height.\r\nWhen I was working as
    an art director, I almost always had to make small caps bigger, by half a point
    usually. A compromise, as weight was affected.\r\n\r\nTypical usage:\r\n1. Acronymns
    in text, e.g. the problematic \"U.S.\", with the same letterforms as lower case\r\n2.
    A line of all small caps used as a subhead\r\n3. Titles (as in this thread).\r\n\r\nWith
    small caps that are barely larger than x-height, all these usages suffer.\r\n\r\nNow
    admittedly the problem of too-small small caps was traditionally ameliorated by
    letterspacing (tracking) them out, but that's a bit of a work-around.\r\n\r\nIMO,
    small caps should be around 120% of the x-height. Most are under 110%.\r\nAnother
    reason for larger small caps (from the type designer's perspective) is that they
    are very necessary in Cyrillic, with many more common shapes between cases than
    in Latin.\r\n\r\nWhy do type designers make small caps so close to x-height? I
    suspect it is because we visually balance the effect of equal amounts of small
    cap text with U&lc text, one-to-one (symmetry), and that does not correspond to
    typical typographic usage, which is asymmetric, requiring a small amount of small
    cap to hold its own against a much larger quantity of U&lc."
  created: '2007-05-16 17:45:07'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "<cite>Eric, that\u2019s true for a PhD or a Dr\u2014but certainly fails with
    a Lieutenant Colonel.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think the US Military does things in all
    caps, with a special set of abbreviations. Before that the traditional way to
    abbreviate the forms was with a period and hard space between the parts of the
    title.  LTC Paul Heiney <cite>vs</cite> Lt. Col. Paul Heiney.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>Or
    would anyone small-capitalise LeRoy\u2019s \u2018R\u2019</cite>\r\n\r\nCheck out
    all the strange things they do to <a href=\"http://amazon.com/s/ref=nb_ss_gw/002-0092307-4095208?url=search-alias%3Daps&field-keywords=john+lecarre&Go.x=0&Go.y=0&Go=Go\">this
    poor man</a>'s adopted last name. Sacrosanct indeed. "
  created: '2007-05-16 17:51:45'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: 'I once tried to use small caps for the degrees. My editor was very dis-pleased
    with me. In my opinion, it works fine if all you''re dealing with are BA, MA,
    MFA, or MBA. But throw in some MCompSci and MAppSci and things get really ugly.
    So I caved and went with the traditional upper and lower case. Without periods. '
  created: '2007-05-16 19:32:03'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "(grumpy editor hat on) :-(  I don't mind BA, etc. without periods, but I
    admit that anything more complex than that (like mine, for example) doesn't really
    work well without periods.  \r\n\r\nI have this sneaking hunch that doing away
    with the periods is going to take over, and IMHO, it does nothing for readability.
    \ (grumpy editor hat off)"
  created: '2007-05-16 20:22:51'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "Heh, Linda--When we list multiple degrees after a person's name, for the
    longest time it was as follows: \r\n\r\n\"John Johnson, BA,MFA,MCompSci,CMA,PhD\"\r\n\r\n...
    no spaces. I imagine we were following some style guide or other, but some of
    these guys have like 10 of them... it got hard on the eyes. This year, we're adding
    spaces, but now it seems too stretched out to my eye. Maybe thin spaces could
    be a middle ground (for my purposes, anyway).\r\n\r\n(Who really needs to brag
    about all their degrees anyway? Couldn't we just do away with them? joking, joking.)\r\n\r\nK."
  created: '2007-05-18 01:46:01'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I've had this discussion in the past many times: the general consensus, particularly
    for business cards, is to pick the most advanced degree.  \r\n\r\nIn your example
    above, I'd simply make it <em>John Johnson, PhD</em>.  In some cases, where someone
    has equivalent degrees -- both an MFA and an MBA, or an MD and PhD -- I'd list
    both.  \r\n\r\nMy brother-in-law is a good example: he's both an MD and a DVM,
    but I don't think he has a business card, since he successfully plays the stock
    market, and no one in the tax haven where he lives, cares.  ;-)"
  created: '2007-05-18 03:40:20'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Krania, I have 4 projects a year that list about 50 names, all with multiple
    degrees. The editor, and she is a good one - insists on the spacebands after each
    comma, no exceptions.\r\n\r\nI've set type for more years then I care to remember,
    and I have never been asked to drop the spacebands between degrees. Is this something
    new? We may have been asked to give 1-N spaces to save room, but without space
    looks like a typesetter didn't know what he/she was doing...\r\n\r\nBTW - for
    PhD why even bother consulting Chicago Manual of Style? It was explained to me
    that the person spent their time and earned their degree - they are entitled to
    it as is. Even if it is to be set in Small Caps - the h would remain in lower
    case -- just the nature of the beast.\r\n\r\nOh, and Linda, in your argument of
    periods or no periods - this is just typesetter opinion - either way should be
    okay - but just be consistent. If one degree is given it's punctuation, then it
    is said without giving - all degrees on that layout - should have periods. Same
    holds true without - than none shall receive... :-)"
  created: '2007-05-18 10:23:01'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: 'Absolutely, Jackie, and consistency is something I''ve drilled into my clients
    for years: a few ex-clients just never understood the reasoning behind it.  :-('
  created: '2007-05-18 15:26:19'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "LOL - Linda - that is because \"they can do it themselves after only 6 lessons
    in ________\" (name that program)!\r\n\r\nI use to take great pride in re-doing
    a job to show a client what it looked like when a professional did it - same job
    - same fonts - same breaks... just looked better!\r\n\r\nAnd I'm sure you'll agree,
    they know something about it looks better, but never understood why. Letterspacing,
    Kerning - Consistency - hanging punctuation... all the good stuff has gone out
    of it!"
  created: '2007-05-18 16:03:29'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "\"Lessons?  We don't need no stinking <em>lessons</em>!\"\r\n\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nHad
    (past tense, thankfully) one client that had several different divisions in one
    relatively small building -- each division had a unique way of writing the address.
    \ I made the absolutely radical suggestion that everyone standardize on one form:
    you'd have thought I suggested they all run naked through downtown in -40 weather.\r\n\r\nSo
    I was asked to come up with a recommendation -- I presented them with a list of
    22 alternatives! -- and gave the rationale for my choice.  They, of course, picked
    something else, and four months later, after they had all ordered new stationery,
    none of them had the agreed-to one.\r\n\r\nI walked away...."
  created: '2007-05-18 16:11:20'
- author:
    name: dojr2
  body: "I would not recommend setting PhD all in capitals, even if only because Ph
    should be thought of as one letter (the Greek Phi) and not as two (this is why
    the initial for Philippe is Ph. and not P. for say). Perhaps a good ligature would
    do, though? I thought that when I get my PhD I might write \u03A6D or \u03A6d
    or something like that - I need to have a look at fonts which have a good set
    of Greek letters which mix well with the Roman ones etc. I wish I had done my
    Doctorate of Philosophy in Oxford where it is still abbreviated DPhil, which looks
    and sounds SO much better.\r\n\r\nThe rule on abbreviations in French is that
    if the abbreviation includes both the start and the end of a word, it is not followed
    by a point, otherwise it is. Hence 'M.' for Monsieur (in very ancient use it is
    Mr, though) but 'Mme' for Madame or 'Mlle' for Mademoiselle. Hence 'Prof.' or
    'Pr' for professor. etc."
  created: '2007-05-19 02:31:30'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "Linda, \r\n\r\nPerhaps you would know if such a thing exists: At work, we
    have a very old and badly photocopied document which lists the correct abbreviation
    or acronym for universities. We use this list, which is by no means complete (and
    is also faded and illegible at the edges of the pages), for listing all the professors
    names and degrees, and where they earned them. I've been Googling to try and find
    a similar online resource, but to no avail. This mysterious compendium also serves
    as our style guide for that section -- which, I believe is where the strange no
    spaces rule originated. \r\n\r\nUnfortunately, listing only the highest degree
    earned is not likely to be an option since we also include the conferring University.
    I presume some students want to know where there professors were educated and
    what kind of education they have, but like many things, we continue because \"we've
    always done it like that\" without knowing exactly why. It certainly would be
    a whole lot simpler if we could do away with it all, believe me. \r\n\r\nDo you
    know of any resources like that?... or some official organization that determines
    how university names can be abbreviated? (lol)\r\n\r\nJust thought, as a sidetrack
    and thread hijacking, that you might have some insight.\r\n\r\nThx!\r\nK."
  created: '2007-05-19 14:36:32'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I've not seen one, but I have no doubt that one must exist somewhere.  I
    didn't see anything on their website (although I must admit I only gave it the
    once-over) but you might try contacting the <a href:\"http://www.aucc.ca\">Association
    of Universities and Colleges of Canada</a> in Ottawa.  If they don't have it,
    I bet they know who does....\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-19 23:36:24'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "I knew you'd have some nugget to offer ;)\r\n\r\nThanks.\r\nK."
  created: '2007-05-20 00:46:30'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: When you get it, I'd love a copy -- I collect editorial ephemera the way some
    folks collect typefaces.  ;-)
  created: '2007-05-20 02:48:56'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "There's another interesting use I saw in \"The Economist\" today. When using
    the acronym for African Development Bank, they use a combination of smalls and
    lowercase:\r\n\r\nAfDB. \r\n\r\nIn your mind's eye, imagine A, D, & B in smalls;
    leave the f lowercase.\r\n\r\nThey seem to have edited assiduously to avoid starting
    a sentence with a small cap.  I have had numerous editors tell me they object
    to starting a sentence with a small cap. Seems silly to me as long as the abbrev
    or acronym has been explicated earlier.\r\n\r\nThe other problem with using smalls
    in these kinds of instances comes when you need to make it plural: say, when you
    have lots of MPs. In most cases the small cap \"s\" is hardly distinguishable
    from the lowercase \"s\".\r\n\r\nTakes a bit of jiggering around to make it clear.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2007-05-24 04:50:45'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I've done work in the past for numerous divisions of the American Association
    for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) and I can't even begin to relate all the
    various permutations and combinations that showed up in their publications.\r\n\r\nSo
    long as it's defined properly in the first instance, and doesn't show up in at
    the beginning of a subsequent sentence (which really isn't difficult), there really
    isn't a problem...."
  created: '2007-05-24 04:55:38'
date: '2007-05-15 20:26:42'
title: PhD?

---
