---
author:
  name: ill sans
  picture: 111620
body: CMYK colour charts always seem to be spread over several diagrams with one colour's
  percentage fixed (eg. C horizontally, M vertically & Y fixed). Is there a reason
  for that? Does anyone know if there has already been a full userfriendly chart made
  that displays all possible variations in one diagram?
comments:
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I have explored this kind of thing and I found that the only way to get a
    reasonble idea of what a color would look like would be to print a huge sheet
    or many smaller ones - the reason being that you need about an inch x and inch
    of color to see what your getting ( okay maybe a bit smaller...); and you need
    steps of 5%. Sometimes you need to dial things more tightly still. That adds up
    to a hell of a lot of squares. \r\n\r\nThere are companies that specialize in
    color management that sell sheets that are meant to help in a process that callibrates
    your documents to a given printing response. I actually built one for a VERY screwy
    color laser. It was a nightmare but an interesting one. \r\n\r\nWhy do you want
    this one sheet to rule them all anyway?"
  created: '2007-05-17 10:46:06'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "I challenged myself to put all variations in one userfriendly (which was
    the biggest challenge) diagram & managed to do so. I just wanted to check if this
    kind of diagram already exists because I've never seen anything like that. Do
    you have a link for these sheets so I can compare them to mine?\r\nAnd here I
    am, thinking I was about to win the Nobelprize for graphic design :-)"
  created: '2007-05-17 11:09:03'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: Tom are you going to share your handy work with the rest of us?!
  created: '2007-05-17 14:47:19'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "I want to check if it already exists first (just for copyright reasons).\r\nI
    can tell you that it makes a nice poster for the office though ;-)\r\nI've only
    made a scaled down version with percentages of 25, but the concept can be applied
    to other percentages as well. I have to be honest that it took me quite a while
    to figure out a system in which you can immediately identify each percentage without
    having any doubles. I've already started thinking of a system for RGB which will
    probably be even trickier. I'm also thinking of a variation of my CMYK chart,
    but I'm still working on that.\r\nAs soon as I know it already exists (or as soon
    as my copyright is assured) I'll share my \"secret recipe\" with the rest of you
    here.\r\nAfter Eben's reply I googled for CMYK colour sheets, but I still haven't
    found anything that resembles mine, so I'm still rooting for that Nobelprize ;-)"
  created: '2007-05-17 15:03:26'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "I'm very interested in your chart. I'd love to see it posted when you're
    ready.\r\n\r\n<em>Graphics Master</em> by Dean Phillip Lem contains a \"Process
    Color Selector Guide\" printed on coated and uncoated stocks, with percentages
    of 10%. (I have the second edition, printed in 1977). From your description, Lem's
    work doesn't resemble yours.\r\n\r\nGood luck with that Nobel prize :-)"
  created: '2007-05-17 15:54:02'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: I already contacted SABAM today for information about copyright and/or a patent.
    The moment I know I'm "protected", I'll post an example along with an explanation
    of how the idea came about.
  created: '2007-05-17 16:22:46'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "More than 10 years ago, my husband put one together for Stevenson Photol
    Color Co. in Ohio. Recently, I got a little program called Art Directors Toolkit.
    What a pleasant surprise, and very useful. Not only does it help with exact measurements
    for layouts, has colors for swatches - and for blends. Lets you get an idea for
    a color overprint - as opposed to knockout. It may be several years late in the
    coming, but still a gem.\r\n\r\nYou can read about it here: http://www.code-line.com/software/artdirectorstoolkit.html\r\n\r\nbut
    I'm probably late to the party, and all of you knew about this already - right?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-17 17:37:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I found the old files but the test sheets don't cover 100% of the range just
    some reference points and some 'hard to get right' colors. They were for calibration
    not for general reference.\r\nI also found my old files they are overly precise,
    taking steps in 1% increments. Perhaps I should release them.... maybe one day.
    I also have a book called \"Process Color Manual, 24,000 CMYK Combinations for
    Design, Prepress, and Printing\" by Pat Rogondino & Michael Rogondino. It has
    maybe 50 pages or so and I think it uses the 5% jumps and covers the whole range
    from 0 to 100 in a fairly sequential manner. \r\n\r\nThinking about what you have
    described I am puzzled. Jumps of 25% seem awfully big to me.  So how does it go?
    0, 25, 50, 100? Have I understood you? It seems like 5 or 10% jumps would have
    far more utility.\r\n\r\nStill, I am interested to see what you made. I can send
    you some of the files I have if you are interested."
  created: '2007-05-17 17:42:14'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "I just used the 0-25-50-75-100% range as a test. It's an easier & quicker
    way to make a prototype & easier to check for potential flaws. As I already said
    earlier, it took me quite a while to make a userfriendly (I can't stress this
    enough) diagram in which all possible varations are shown without repeating a
    single one. Obviously, there's a lot of black, but that's because every combination
    with 100% black & the 100% CM&Y all make black. I haven't checked Jackie's link
    yet, but until now I haven't found any CMYK colour chart that covers everything
    in one scheme unless maybe it just \"sums them up\" with the percentages printed
    in the colours themselves, but in that case it's not really a diagram & can not
    be used as such.\r\nIf anyone has any links to companies that make colour charts,
    please post them here. If I can't find anything similar, I'm considering pitching
    my idea to these companies.\r\nThe \"Lukacs CMYK colour chart\", I kind of like
    the ring of that ;-p"
  created: '2007-05-17 17:58:38'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I'm confused as to how a color swatch chart can be patented. That said, there
    are some insane patents being approved these days.\r\n\r\nIf you made it, it's
    yours. You own the copyright. "
  created: '2007-05-17 18:37:53'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: ill sans, I too am curious about your chart, though I am joining in late.
    I don't want to be a party pooper, but my understanding is that a color chart's
    usefulness is limited due to the fact that a laser printer's output varies according
    to many factors, such as humidity and temperature. Having said that, I am still
    curious about your chart and would love to see it.  :-)
  created: '2007-05-18 05:39:28'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: It's not really the colour chart itself that I'm trying to "protect" for now,
    but the idea of the diagram itself. It's the first diagram I know of that displays
    4 different values for each element. The concept might even have its use in maths
    or science. I used the CYMK colour chart as a jumping off point (putting all combinations;
    hue, saturation & brightness included in one -here we go again- userfriendly chart),
    but it's basically really about unfolding a 3D-model to a simple 2D chart.
  created: '2007-05-18 09:44:08'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "This was on line\r\nIt is a typical CMYK color chart\r\n\r\nhttp://www.mckinleyville.com/cart/files/CMYChart.pdf\r\n\r\nHere
    is a tattooer that made up their own: (and it's a bit different)\r\nhttp://www.customtattoos.net/cmyk.pdf\r\n\r\nIf
    you just go to yahoo or google and type in CMYK color chart - you'll be amazed
    at all the other examples that pop up - including the books on this topic... like
    tintbooks..."
  created: '2007-05-18 10:57:35'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Thanks for the links everyone, but I'm afraid some of you are not quite getting
    my point. Jackie, your CMYK charts are the ones I've seen before (as mentioned
    in my original post), but it's really about getting \xE0ll possible combinations
    in \xF2ne (supersized obviously) chart that allows you to read 4 different values
    (the percentages of CMYK) without having any doubles. It's the idea behind the
    diagram what it's really about. In every CMYK chart I've seen so far, there's
    always one fixed percentage (usually Y), but in my chart all percentages of all
    colours are variable. I have found a way to unfold a 3D-model to a userfriendly
    2D-diagram & I'm just trying to find out if this kind of thing has been done before.
    It may seem implausible & even quite arrogant of me to think that I might be the
    first one to come up with this diagram, but until now all Google sessions & links
    here seem to imply that indeed this kind of thing hasn't been made yet. Maybe
    nobody ever bothered to do so & everybody was quite happy with the colour charts
    spread over several pages & diagrams or maybe -and I might come off a little arrogant
    again here- I'm the first one to succesfully do it.\r\nIt started off as a colour
    chart, but it is now really about the diagram and not the colours. All diagrams
    that I've seen so far have two axes (X & Y) & only display two values for each
    element. Mine displays 4 different values for each element & that's what I'm hoping
    is something new. It's very hard to explain without the diagram itself to illustrate
    what I'm talking about, but since I'm hoping this might be a discovery, I'm trying
    to \"protect\" my copyrights and what not before giving it away. As soon as my
    rights have been assured, I'll post an example here to illustrate my point with
    a brief explanation of how it came about."
  created: '2007-05-18 11:47:32'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Tom,\r\n\r\nIt sounds like you've made yourself quite a design project, that
    unlike so many others, may actually benefit printers and designers.\r\n\r\nBest
    wishes with it - I hope when it's done - copyrighted, secured - you'll share it
    with us."
  created: '2007-05-18 12:39:13'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite>It\u2019s not really the colour chart itself that I\u2019m trying to
    \u201Cprotect\u201D for now, but the idea of the diagram itself.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm
    hate to disappoint you, but <em>ideas</em> or <em>concepts</em> cannot be copyrighted.
    You can only copyright the specific expression of an idea or concept in tangible
    form. So you can get a copyright on your chart (once it is produced and published),
    but you can't copyright the idea, and not in advance.\r\n\r\nYou may be able to
    get some limited <em>patent</em> protection for your idea, if you can present
    it as an invention. The term of protection is more limited and the application
    process will be more difficult.\r\n\r\nGood luck.\r\n\r\n-- Kent."
  created: '2007-05-18 12:39:22'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Thanks for your best wishes! I'm still anxiously waiting for SABAM's reply
    (which I probably won't get until monday), but if indeed I can't copyright the
    idea, I still might get the diagram named after me & that would look quite nice
    on my resume ;-) I'm honestly completely clueless about copyrights & patents,
    but the sheer thought of maybe having discovered something new is absolutely thrilling.
    My selfconfidence grows with every new post here & I'm actually starting to think
    I might have an innovation in my hands that is not only usefull for colour charts,
    but might actually benifit the mathmetical/scientific world as well.\r\nAgain,
    if anyone knows of any companies that might be interested, please post them here.
    I might be able to sell my idea."
  created: '2007-05-18 13:00:11'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "If you end up getting it produced and put a unique name on it, you might
    be able to trademark the name (depending upon what you call it). So, that could
    be of some value.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-18 13:58:29'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Well, actually the name diagram is incorrect, so I'm going to try selling
    it as the "Lukacs quartogram" or something similar. It would be nice to have some
    kind of legacy and have your name live on after you & at least this way I won't
    have to worry about sending my legacy off to college someday ;-)
  created: '2007-05-18 14:15:48'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Thanks for the links, Jackie. I spent an hour trying to dredge something like
    that up a few days ago with no luck.
  created: '2007-05-18 14:39:52'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: If the "Lukacs quartogram" falls through, you could maybe design a typeface
    and name it after yourself. We know how the copyright works on that. :)
  created: '2007-05-18 16:38:18'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I\u2019m trying to \u201Cprotect\u201D my copyrights and what not before
    giving it away.\"\r\n\r\nIf you made it, you HAVE the copyright.\r\n\r\nAs to
    whether or not it's a patentable idea, only $$$ and a patent lawyer will help
    you with that. ;o)\r\n\r\nThat said, you appear to be in Belgium. I really have
    no idea how patents and copyrights work over there."
  created: '2007-05-18 19:29:35'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Neither do I, but there's an organisation here (I don't know if it's internationally
    known) that guides you through copyright related issues called SABAM & I've already
    sent them an email asking them what to do next. I'll probably have an answer on
    monday & until then I'm just going to sit on it & keep my fingers crossed that
    it won't turn out that somebody already beat me to it. Like I said before, it
    seems very implausible that I would actually be the first one to come up with
    a "quartogram", but so far everything seems to indicate that I am (knock on wood!).
    And if so, then it would be nice to somehow get the recognition for it in its
    name for instance.
  created: '2007-05-18 19:43:06'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I think the queston you have to resolve is if you can pack a reasonable amount
    of samples onto one sheet. I think you will have to make it into a poster to have
    any chance of that. I also don't think that the value of the poster ( assuming
    I a correct ) will neccesaily be greater than a well designed booklet. Perhaps
    your idea can play out wihin a booklet instead. I would be more willing to buy
    a great booklet han a poster.\r\n\r\nIn any event I would bet that your fame if
    there is some will result from the utility of the object itself not from the virtue
    of the idea itself. Still, my skepticism aside I do hope you have success with
    this and I would echo what other people said about pursuing a patent quesrry if
    you really think you have something hyper-marketable. \r\n\r\nIf it was me I would
    be less concerned with patentability and more concerned with raw and actual market
    forces. I also think that feedback on your design and that improvment is likely
    to be of the greatest economic value of all. These are just my guesses of course.
    \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-05-19 07:52:58'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Following Eben\u2019s assumption \u2013 a book makes sense in terms of longevity/user
    friendliness, a poster would be more affected by environment, sunlight, dust etc.
    A user friendly addition (essential, really) is to include a grey (or neutral
    \u2013 possibly light on one side and dark on the other) frame that can be used
    to block out neighbouring colours.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-05-19 08:50:46'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Even in case of a 10% range it would turn out to be quite the wallfiller which
    would look nice, but indeed in time would be suffer from sunlight & dust. Basically
    I'm hoping that this kind of diagram can find its use in other fields & there
    is an orginasation in Belgium that subsidies scientific research (or so I've been
    told, I haven't checked it out yet). I'll wait for SABAM's reply first & later
    on might contact them to finance a potential patent.
  created: '2007-05-19 09:20:29'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Who were you think would use your diagramatic model beyond presspeople & designers?
    What qualities other than CMYK are you thinking of showing?
  created: '2007-05-19 18:23:32'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: It might prove to be usefull in mathmatics or sciences. I'm not a scientist,
    but if it can be used to compress a CMYK-chart to one diagram, I'm pretty sure
    it could be usefull to combine other diagrams to a single one as well. I have
    no idea where else you would have to input 4 different values for each element,
    but maybe some scientist does?
  created: '2007-05-19 18:42:59'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "I havn't given this much thought so I'm probably talking nonsense, but could
    the Lukac Quartogram work for RGB with Brightness as the 4th variable?\r\n\r\nI'm
    really looking forward to seeing it.\r\n\r\nHave you thought about calling it
    the Lukac Quadragram? Just a suggestion because dictionary definitions say quart
    is a unit of capacity and quarto is a page size."
  created: '2007-05-19 21:20:35'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "I haven't decided on the name yet except for the Lukacs part ;-)\r\nI have
    actually also considered quadri-/quadro- or quadragram. I'm working on a RGB-model
    right now, but it's a lot trickier. I'm a bit confused as to what you define as
    brightness... Isn't that just the percentages of RGB combined (the higher the
    percentages, the brighter)? The difficulty that I'm having with the RGB-model
    is that I don't have a 4th variable & 100 (%) can not be divided by 3 (colours).
    I'll probably end up with a few doubles in the model if I end up with anything
    at all. The only way I see it working now is by making a different model for each
    given percentage range, but again I can't seem to add the numbers up correctly
    so far. The only hope I can give you for now is that I'm a very stubborn person
    & I re\xE0lly want to make an RGB-model as well ;-)"
  created: '2007-05-19 21:40:16'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Sorry, too much wine. I said I was probably talking nonsense.\r\n\r\nObviously
    a percentage of R, G or B is the amount of brightness. Doh! (Slaps hand on forehead)\r\n\r\nI
    think the Photoshop colour picker holds a clue. Spot the odd one out...\r\n\r\nHSB\r\nLab\r\nRGB\r\nCMYK"
  created: '2007-05-19 21:52:23'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Maybe wine is the answer to my problems? ;-p
  created: '2007-05-19 21:58:33'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "After a couple of bottles you could try an Elemental Quartogram...\r\n\r\nEarth
    / Air / Fire / Water\r\n\r\n75% Air + 25% Water = Cloud\r\n\r\n50% Earth + 50
    % Water = Mud\r\n\r\n50% Fire + 25% Earth + 25% Air = ????\r\n\r\n%^}\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-19 22:11:43'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "How about a Typographic Quartogram?\r\n\r\nThe categories could be Serif,
    Sans, Script and I'm not sure about the 4th.\r\n\r\nIt would be quite personal
    in choosing a font to represent a 100% purity of its category and what the scale
    of interpolation would be.\r\n\r\nMy mental type catalogue is not big enough to
    know if it would be possible to fill in the transitionary stages between the 4
    categories but there do seem to be a lot of hybrid typefaces these days.\r\n\r\nIt
    might be a fun Typophile challenge."
  created: '2007-05-20 19:19:34'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: I'll pass on that challenge ;-) The RGB chart is enough for now, but once
    I've posted an example here and an explanation of how to put 4 different values
    into one quadrigam (or whatever you want to call it), anyone is free to do with
    it what they want, but I don't think it will work as a font schedule though. I
    think it can only work with quantities of the same category and not for 4 different
    subdivisions... Either way, the alcohol is doing its work now & giving my mind
    a rest ;-p
  created: '2007-05-20 20:17:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: 10% increments (from 0 - 100%) of all four process colours are going to give
    you 14,641 different coloured squares (a lot of them very black, which is why
    the tattoo guy only did up to 80% black). How you lay them out is going to hurt
    so I hope it is worth the pain.
  created: '2007-05-21 09:15:59'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Well, like stated before, it's about more than just a colour chart now. I
    have to admit that it might not proof very practical as a CMYK chart (unless with
    bigger leaps as in my prototype), but it was really about the challenge of being
    able to do it. And now, I'm just hoping somehow it can be useful as a way of compressing
    several diagrams into one.
  created: '2007-05-21 12:15:56'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "This project reminds me of Visibone's colour charts which unwrap the RGB
    3D colour cube in various ways:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.visibone.com/\r\n\r\nI am very
    intrigued how you've unwrapped the 4D hypercube... if you want to find out if
    anything similar exists I would perhaps look in the directions of maths projections
    of this hypercube\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tesseract\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-21 13:17:56'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Wow, that stuff is w\xE0y over my head ;-p\r\nActually, the idea behind my
    quadrigram is quite simple (which is probably why it took me a while to figure
    it out in the first place) & -unlike I myself wrongly stated above- it c\xE0n
    actually be used as a schedule for 4 subdivisions as well. It can be used in any
    way to give 4 different \"values\" to each element (or categorise an element into
    4 different subcategories), but its practical use will most likely lie in maths,
    scientific or maybe economics as a way of compressing several diagrams into one."
  created: '2007-05-21 13:42:09'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "I figured out a way to make an RGB-model as well, in steps of 17. It may
    seem a bit of an odd number for leaps, but this adds up to 4096 variations which
    can be translated to a 64x64 scheme. I was off on the wrong foot with this at
    first because I thought in measurements of 100 instead of 255 for each colour.
    BTW Why didn't anybody correct me on this? ;-p\r\nI'm not really happy about using
    the same skeleton as for my CMYK-model & leaving one variable out, so I'm still
    going to try & put it in a triangular model which obviously makes more sense.\r\nMeanwhile,
    I still haven't heard from SABAM yet, but I did contact the organisation that
    subsidies innovations... More news soon."
  created: '2007-05-22 10:26:17'
- author:
    name: peterj
  body: As for naming, you could always switch to Greek and make it some variation
    of "tetragram," which the internets tell me is a word of four letters, or an abbreviation
    for the Hebrew god.
  created: '2007-05-22 21:38:24'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: The name will be a last minute decision since I'm still waiting to see if
    this kind of thing already exists or not. So far, so good though & I have contacted
    several organisations to try and get this thing "patented". Knowk on wood!
  created: '2007-05-24 11:00:10'
- author:
    name: yahhoo
  body: "well you might like my cmyk chart hehe...each page increments of 5% = 400
    swatches per page\r\n1. the 6 pages that are only two color\r\n2. the 21 pages
    of CMY only\r\n3. THEN the same base 21 pages of CMY with 10% K\r\n4  THEN \"
    \        \"                \"  with 30 % K\r\nthats roughly 27,200 swatches....now
    if a guy wnated some really dark pages....you just go into \"channels in illustrator
    with the 21 pages of CMY on your screen and add \r\nwhatever percent K (black
    that you like)\r\nhttp://motionpicturesigns.com  i made three charts for my 54\"
    $40k printer....a CMYK,a RGB(2800swatches), pantone bridge (I corrected pantones
    pdf chart which was in fact wrong)...all 3 yours for $30!!..no lie"
  created: '2007-08-06 09:11:07'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "It definitely looks great (especially the RGB-model)! My intention however
    was more \"scientific\" rather than practical... I wanted to put it all in one
    oversized chart WITH all percentages of black & WITHOUT any doubles (except for
    every combination with 100% K or the ones where all 3 C, M & Y percentages are
    100%). I haven't really been doing anything with it lately, but I still have plans
    to post my idea in a iDepot online to assure my rights & then I'll post it here.
    But just to be on the safe side, don't hold your breath ;-) I've been working
    on too many things lately to even be bothered to pick this one up. More news will
    follow some day... probably.\r\nBTW, I still haven't had any chance on the RGB-model,
    but again, I haven't been trying lately ;-)"
  created: '2007-08-06 10:10:31'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "I have to be honest & admit that I got bored with trying to find where to
    go to with this idea & kind of forgot about the whole thing until I was recently
    going through my archives. Since I don't really see myself picking up on that
    search I figured I might as well let you all in on my 'secret' (you've been patient
    enough ;-)).\r\n\r\nHere's what the Quadrigram looks like with percentages of
    25:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/quadrigram_4687.gif]\r\n\r\nAs
    you can (hopefully) see in the quadrigram the values for black, cyan, magenta
    & yellow are read respectively on the left, top, bottom & right side.\r\n\r\nHere's
    how it's done:\r\n\r\nTo put 4 variables into one chart you need to create 4 axes
    to read your values from. Average diagrams use only one X-axis & one Y-axis making
    no use of the top & right space as far as value input goes. \r\nHaving 2 horizontal
    (X1 & X2) & 2 vertical (Y1 & Y2) axes creates the need for different calibrations.
    This can be achieved by making use of small & big 'squares' for values for both
    axes (horizontally as well as vertically). The first thing you need to do is figure
    out the top value of one of your axes (for percentages it's obvious, but in this
    example I will use a top value of 4).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/figure1_6163.gif]\r\n\r\nFor
    the second axis we need to divide each seperate value into these 4 steps; in this
    case creating 5 blocks (0,1,2,3 & 4) of paired values 0-4.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/figure2_4071.gif]\r\n\r\nNow
    we do the same with the vertical axes to create a raster of big squares & one
    of small squares merged together & we'll thus be able to read 4 different values
    for each point (in the example the values for the coloured square are 3 for X1,
    1 for X2, 3 for Y1 & 2 for Y2).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/figure3_5133.gif]\r\n\r\nThis
    method can be used for any kind of chart that needs to combine 4 different variables
    although for other charts it will lose the 'flowing' line that gives a first good
    impression of what to expect when reading the chart. Still it can be used to compress
    all information into one userfriendly chart."
  created: '2010-07-13 20:08:58'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: FWIW, your charts ought to exclude any combination of colors which exceeds
    260% (e.g., 100C 20Y 100M 40K) because, if you run higher percentages through
    an offset press, the ink will never dry...
  created: '2010-07-13 22:52:28'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: I have a reference book that has all printable CYMK combinations in 5% increments.
    It must be tens of thousands of swatches. If you tore out the pages you could
    wallpaper a wall. Can't conceive of fitting it into a poster.
  created: '2010-07-14 01:06:17'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "@oldnick\r\n\r\nFunny enough, I've actually made a similar chart with the
    260% range marked out in the past!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CMYK_6131.png]"
  created: '2010-07-14 17:28:30'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Interesting, so I wrote an Illustrator CS4 Javascript (save as \"CmykSpread.jsx\")
    that draws the above :-)\r\nSelect any four-pointed object (not limited to <em>rectangles</em>!)
    and run the script. It should create something like the above, or -- it took me
    two days to get the linear interpolation working -- something like this from a
    free-form four-point object:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cmykspread_5384.png]\r\n\r\nI
    added Oprion's ink limit warning because that's a real good idea.\r\n\r\n----
    (snip script below) ----\r\n<code>//DESCRIPTION:Convert Rectangle to CMYK Spread\r\n//
    Jongware, 15-Jul-2010\r\nif (app.documents.length &gt; 0 &amp;&amp; app.selection.length
    == 1 &amp;&amp; app.selection[0].constructor.name==\"PathItem\" &amp;&amp; app.selection[0].pathPoints.length
    == 4)\r\n{\r\n\tsel = app.selection[0];\r\n\tsteps = prompt (\"Number of steps
    (1..100)\", 5);\r\n\tif (steps != null)\r\n\t{\r\n\t\tinklimit = prompt (\"Ink
    limit (percentage)\", 260);\r\n\t\tif (inklimit != null)\r\n\t\t{\r\n\t\t\tinklimit
    = Number(inklimit);\r\n\t\t\tsteps = Number(steps);\r\n\t\t\tif (steps &gt;= 1
    &amp;&amp; steps &lt; 100)\r\n\t\t\t{\r\n\t\t\t\tdoc = app.activeDocument;\r\n\t\t\t\tp0
    = app.selection[0].pathPoints[0].anchor;\r\n\t\t\t\tp1 = app.selection[0].pathPoints[1].anchor;\r\n\t\t\t\tp2
    = app.selection[0].pathPoints[2].anchor;\r\n\t\t\t\tp3 = app.selection[0].pathPoints[3].anchor;\r\n\t\t\t\tdx
    = (p1[0] - p0[0])/(steps*steps);\r\n\t\t\t\tdy = (p1[1] - p0[1])/(steps*steps);\r\n\t\t\t\tdlx
    = (p3[0] - p0[0])/(steps*steps);\r\n\t\t\t\tdly = (p3[1] - p0[1])/(steps*steps);\r\n\t\t\t\tdrx
    = (p2[0] - p1[0])/(steps*steps);\r\n\t\t\t\tdry = (p2[1] - p1[1])/(steps*steps);\r\n\t\t\t\txl
    = p0[0];\r\n\t\t\t\tyl = p0[1];\r\n\t\t\t\txr = p1[0];\r\n\t\t\t\tyr = p1[1];\r\n\t\t\t\twhite
    = new GrayColor();\r\n\t\t\t\twhite.gray = 0;\r\n\t\t\t\tallpts = new Array();\r\n\t\t\t\tfor
    (v=0; v&lt;=steps*steps; v++)\r\n\t\t\t\t{\r\n\t\t\t\t\txp = xl;\r\n\t\t\t\t\typ
    = yl;\r\n\t\t\t\t\tdx = (xr-xl)/(steps*steps);\r\n\t\t\t\t\tdy = (yr-yl)/(steps*steps);\r\n\t\t\t\t\tln
    = new Array();\r\n\t\t\t\t\tfor (h=0; h&lt;=steps*steps; h++)\r\n\t\t\t\t\t{\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\tln.push
    (Array(xp,yp));\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\txp += dx;\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\typ += dy;\r\n\t\t\t\t\t}\r\n\t\t\t\t\tallpts.push
    (ln);\r\n\t\t\t\t\txl += dlx;\r\n\t\t\t\t\tyl += dly;\r\n\t\t\t\t\txr += drx;\r\n\t\t\t\t\tyr
    += dry;\r\n\t\t\t\t}\r\n\t\t\t\tc = 0;\r\n\t\t\t\tm = 0;\r\n\t\t\t\ty = 0;\r\n\t\t\t\tk
    = 0;\r\n\t\t\t\tfor (v=0; v&lt;steps*steps; v++)\r\n\t\t\t\t{\r\n\t\t\t\t\tc =
    100*(v % steps)/(steps-1);\r\n\t\t\t\t\tm = 100*Math.floor(v / steps)/(steps-1);\r\n\t\t\t\t\tfor
    (h=0; h&lt;steps*steps; h++)\r\n\t\t\t\t\t{\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\ty = 100*(h % steps)/(steps-1);\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\tk
    = 100*Math.floor(h / steps)/(steps-1);\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\tmyPath = Array (\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tallpts[v][h],\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tallpts[v][h+1],\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tallpts[v+1][h+1],\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tallpts[v+1][h]\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\t);\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\tp
    = doc.pathItems.add();\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\tp.setEntirePath (myPath);\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\tp.closed
    = true;\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\tp.filled = true;\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\tp.stroked = false;\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\tcolor
    = new CMYKColor();\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\tcolor.cyan = c;\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\tcolor.magenta
    = m;\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\tcolor.yellow = y;\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\tcolor.black = k;\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\tp.fillColor
    = color;\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\tif (c + m + y + k &gt; inklimit)\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\t{\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tp.stroked
    = true;\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tp.strokeColor = white;\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tp.strokeWidth
    = 0.5;\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tp = doc.pathItems.add();\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tp.setEntirePath
    (Array(allpts[v][h], allpts[v+1][h+1]));\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tp.closed = false;\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tp.filled
    = false;\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tp.stroked = true;\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tp.strokeColor = white;\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tp.strokeWidth
    = 0.5;\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tp = doc.pathItems.add();\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tp.setEntirePath
    (Array(allpts[v+1][h], allpts[v][h+1]));\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tp.closed = false;\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tp.filled
    = false;\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tp.stroked = true;\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tp.strokeColor = white;\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tp.strokeWidth
    = 0.5;\r\n\t\t\t\t\t\t}\r\n\t\t\t\t\t}\r\n\t\t\t\t}\r\n\t\t\t} else\r\n\t\t\t\talert
    (\"Invalid number of steps -- please use between 1 (few) and 100 (lots)\");\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t}\r\n}
    else\r\n{\r\n\talert (\"Please select a template rectangle\");\r\n}\r\n}</code>"
  created: '2010-07-14 23:49:37'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Okay, already needs a fix :-(\r\n\r\nChange the CMYK calculation lines to
    this order\r\n\r\nm = 100*(v % steps)/(steps-1);\r\ny = 100*Math.floor(v / steps)/(steps-1);\r\n(...)\r\nc
    = 100*(h % steps)/(steps-1);\r\nk = 100*Math.floor(h / steps)/(steps-1);\r\n\r\nto
    get the classical cyan/magenta block in the 'white' corner. To get increments
    of 20%, use a step value of 6 (0%, 20%, 40%, 60%, 80%, and 100% is <em>six</em>
    steps). The default '5' will show 25% increments."
  created: '2010-07-14 23:56:36'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Theunis, I tried your script, it needed the last brace removing before it
    would work \u2013 I am a complete novice when it comes to these things so it could
    have been operator error. Anyway, thank you for your efforts, it worked very well.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2010-07-26 13:18:18'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "That's odd, yeah. But --if you got it to work, well, no worries I guess.
    Glad you like it!\r\n\r\nI'm trying to convince my boss to have a large version
    print on some blank space alongside a (payed for) CMYK job, for our own reference."
  created: '2010-07-26 21:10:52'
- author:
    name: andybrown
    picture: 121894
  body: "When creating the [[http://www.printhandbook.com|Print Handbook]] we wanted
    to do the same and get a useful color chart onto one spread. This is what we came
    up with:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/colorchart02_3929.jpg]\r\n<a href=\"https://www.dropbox.com/s/h10g2v0gts6dlko/colorchart01.jpg\">Larger
    image</a>\r\n\r\nIt might help you if you're still trying to figure out a way
    to get it all on one page/spread.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-18 14:08:00'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "My web page, at\r\n\r\n[[http://www.quadibloc.com/other/colint.htm]]\r\n\r\nincludes
    a number of different color charts, including, near the bottom, one possibly similar
    to the idea noted in this thread."
  created: '2012-10-18 14:51:03'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "quadibloc, I see that you have Chess on your home page ... Caissa will bless
    you for doing so.\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-10-18 19:49:40'
date: '2007-05-17 09:18:28'
title: CMYK colour chart

---
