---
author:
  name: Uli
body: "The \"Typeright\" website (http://www.typeright.org) is an example of how shady
  American lawyers (here the attorney Leonard DuBoff) disseminate wrong information
  for the purpose of lobbyism.\r\n\r\nE.g., shady lobbyist Leonard DuBoff states as
  \"General Counsel\" at above site:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Under the Berne Convention, one
  signatory nation agrees to respect the copyrights of every other signatory. The
  United States is one of these nations. Since most developed countries protect typeface
  designs, the U.S. is in the strange and paradoxical position of officially respecting
  the copyright on foreign typeface designs but not its own domestic designs.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nApart
  from the fact that the statement \"Most developed countries protect typeface designs\"
  is not based on proof, even third-rate American shysters know very well that the
  Berne Convention is based on the \"principle of national treatment\u201D. This means
  that the USA, under the Berne Convention (see RBC, Art. 5, Par. 1), grants to non-nationals
  (i.e. to foreigners or citizens of other countries) the same copyright protection
  as it grants to the works of its own nationals (i.e. to domestic United States citizens).\r\n\r\nAs
  the USA does not grant copyright protection to the typeface designs of its own nationals,
  it also does not grant copyright protection to the typeface designs of non-nationals
  so that e.g. the typeface designs made by Spanish, French, German, etc. designers
  are not copyrightable in the USA.\r\n\r\nThe shady lawyer Leonard DuBoff knows that
  <cite>\"the U.S. is ***NOT*** in the strange and paradoxical position of officially
  respecting the copyright on foreign typeface designs\"</cite> and he also knows
  that he is disseminating wrong information at Typeright, for which site he acts
  as \"General Counsel\" for the purpose of lobbyism.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: What do you mean by 'lobbyism'? And who would he be lobbying? Or do you just
    mean that he is misleading type designers/his company's customers?
  created: '2007-05-17 10:49:03'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: I think it would help your argument if you used the word "shady" a few more
    times.
  created: '2007-05-17 15:48:43'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I think it would help your argument if you used the word \u201Cshady\u201D
    a few more times.\r\n\r\nBut, Will the real slim (use of) shady stand up (to scrutiny)?
    \r\n"
  created: '2007-05-17 16:49:36'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> What do you mean by \u2018lobbyism\u2019?\r\n\r\nBy lobbyism I mean that
    you are expected to sign a petition to the U.S. Congress and Copyright Office
    (see http://www.typeright.org/mission.html) based on false statements made by
    this so-called lawyer Leonard DuBoff:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Type designers the world
    over enjoy legal protection for their typefaces (false) - except those working
    in the United States. Designers in other countries even enjoy protection from
    the U.S. government in U.S. courts (false). Type designers in the U.S., on the
    other hand, are offered no protection for their creative efforts, and TypeRight
    wants to see this changed.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nPresently (2007), there are 163 Berne
    Convention members (incidentally, the oldest one is Switzerland, 1887, and the
    newest one is Brunei, 2006):\r\n\r\nAlbania\r\nAlgeria\r\nAndorra\r\nAntigua and
    Barbuda\r\nArgentina\r\nArmenia\r\nAustralia\r\nAustria\r\nAzerbaijan\r\nBahamas\r\nBahrain\r\nBangladesh\r\nBarbados\r\nBelarus\r\nBelgium\r\nBelize\r\nBenin\r\nBhutan\r\nBolivia\r\nBosnia
    and Herzegovina\r\nBotswana\r\nBrazil\r\nBrunei Darussalam\r\nBulgaria\r\nBurkina
    Faso\r\nCameroon\r\nCanada\r\nCape Verde\r\nCentral African Republic\r\nChad\r\nChile\r\nChina\r\nColombia\r\nComoros\r\nCongo\r\nCosta
    Rica\r\nC\xF4te d'Ivoire\r\nCroatia\r\nCuba\r\nCyprus\r\nCzech Republic\r\nDemocratic
    People\u2019s Republic of Korea\r\nDemocratic Republic of the Congo\r\nDenmark\r\nDjibouti\r\nDominica\r\nDominican
    Republic\r\nEcuador\r\nEgypt\r\nEl Salvador\r\nEquatorial Guinea\r\nEstonia\r\nFiji\r\nFinland\r\nFrance\r\nGabon\r\nGambia\r\nGeorgia\r\nGermany\r\nGhana\r\nGreece\r\nGrenada\r\nGuatemala\r\nGuinea\r\nGuinea-Bissau\r\nGuyana\r\nHaiti\r\nHoly
    See\r\nHonduras\r\nHungary\r\nIceland\r\nIndia\r\nIndonesia\r\nIreland\r\nIsrael\r\nItaly\r\nJamaica\r\nJapan\r\nJordan\r\nKazakhstan\r\nKenya\r\nKyrgyzstan\r\nLatvia\r\nLebanon\r\nLesotho\r\nLiberia\r\nLibyan
    Arab Jamahiriya\r\nLiechtenstein\r\nLithuania\r\nLuxembourg\r\nMacedonia (Former
    Yugoslav Republic of)\r\nMadagascar\r\nMalawi\r\nMalaysia\r\nMali\r\nMalta\r\nMauritania\r\nMauritius\r\nMexico\r\nMicronesia
    (Federated States of)\r\nMoldova\r\nMonaco\r\nMongolia\r\nMontenegro\r\nMorocco\r\nNamibia\r\nNepal\r\nNetherlands\r\nNew
    Zealand\r\nNicaragua\r\nNiger\r\nNigeria\r\nNorway\r\nOman\r\nPakistan\r\nPanama\r\nParaguay\r\nPeru\r\nPhilippines\r\nPoland\r\nPortugal\r\nQatar\r\nRepublic
    of Korea\r\nRomania\r\nRussian Federation\r\nRwanda\r\nSaint Kitts and Nevis\r\nSaint
    Lucia\r\nSaint Vincent and the Grenadines\r\nSamoa\r\nSaudi Arabia\r\nSenegal\r\nSerbia\r\nSingapore\r\nSlovakia\r\nSlovenia\r\nSouth
    Africa\r\nSpain\r\nSri Lanka\r\nSudan\r\nSuriname\r\nSwaziland\r\nSweden\r\nSwitzerland\r\nSyrian
    Arab Republic\r\nTajikistan\r\nThailand\r\nTogo\r\nTonga\r\nTrinidad and Tobago\r\nTunisia\r\nTurkey\r\nUkraine\r\nUnited
    Arab Emirates\r\nUnited Kingdom\r\nUnited Republic of Tanzania\r\nUnited States
    of America\r\nUruguay\r\nUzbekistan\r\nVenezuela\r\nViet Nam\r\nZambia\r\nZimbabwe\r\n\r\nThis
    so-called lawyer Leonard DuBoff claims:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"The fact that copyright
    laws in most developed countries provide protection for the typeface designer...
    \"</cite>\r\n\r\nIs this a fact? No, it is a lie!\r\n\r\nYou can easily check
    the falseness of Leonard DuBoff's statement by sending an email to this so-called
    lawyer (lduboff [at] dubofflaw.com) requesting him to tick off those countries
    in above list of the 163 RBC member states which - according to this so-called
    lawyer Leonard DuBoff - provide copyright protection for typeface designs.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-17 17:22:48'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "By using the phrase \"so-called lawyer\" you are implying that Mr DuBoff
    is not in fact a lawyer. Please provide some evidence for your insinuation. (An
    error on Mr DuBoff's part is not evidence that he is not a lawyer.)\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-18 04:51:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thomas, don't be such an Uli.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-18 05:04:17'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "But, we must use the weapons of the enemy against him!\r\n\r\nNo, wait, that
    was Boromir's mistake, too, wasn't it. Oh well.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-05-18 06:07:40'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> By using the phrase \u201Cso-called lawyer\u201D you are implying...\r\n\r\nThis
    is pettyfogging, and you know that (\"pettifogging = paying too much attention
    to unimportant details\").\r\n\r\nThe only important and decisive question here
    is the following:\r\n\r\nHow many of the 163 national copyright laws of the 163
    Berne Convention states contain provisions that typeface designs are copyrighted?
    Are there only two or three states, whose copyright laws contain such typeface
    design provisions? Or are such typeface design provisions contained in the copyright
    laws of \"most developed countries\", as Leonard DuBoff claims?\r\n\r\nYou should
    know that Leonard DuBoff is totally blind. He will never be able to see your typeface
    Hypatia, nor any other typeface, and due to his blindness, he could not read the
    copyright laws of the 162 foreign Berne convention states, except the American
    copyright law which he could read in Braille script. And Leonard DuBoff, who could
    never read the copyright laws of foreign states and who never sees any typeface
    due to his blindness, disseminates the false statement that the copyright laws
    of \"most developed countries\" protect typeface designs, or even all other 162
    states except the USA (<cite>\"Type designers the world over enjoy legal protection
    for their typefaces - except those working in the United States.\"</cite>)\r\n\r\nIt
    is deplorable that Leonard DuBoff is totally blind. But this is not an excuse
    that he disseminates blatant lies at Typeright in order to take the visitors of
    this website and the members of the American Congress or House of Representatives
    as the addressees of the petition for a ride (see http://www.typeright.org/petition.html).\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-18 10:18:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I hereby coin \"pettylifing\".\r\nNay, I hereby claim copyright and trademark
    on \"pettylifing\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-18 14:08:50'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "@Thomas - but Boromir at least had a grand exit :-)\r\n\r\n@Uli - paying
    too much attention to unimportant details... sounds good. Go ask yourself what
    you are spending your time with - I daresay pettyfogging should be familiar to
    you.\r\n\r\nTo tell you the truth, claiming that a blind lawyer is unable to read
    copyright laws of other countries is one of the worst lies I have ever heard of.
    You do know that we are living in the 21st century, do you? And you are aware
    of computer programs which actually READ text to you? You do know that blind people
    no longer need Braille to read?? Oh, and did you ask this \"so-called lawyer\"
    in person if he knows those laws or not? You did not? I hadn't expected. I am
    quite sure he does - and I would not be astonished to find that they ARE available
    in Braille. Oh, in case you hadn't noticed - there is a Braille terminal which
    transforms normal text into Braille on the fly. These blind people read like HELL,
    OKAY?\r\n\r\nI think you are disgusting, mocking a blind man and claiming that
    he cannot do his job right because of his blindness. And your proof is? I don't
    see any proof - and I'm not blind! You should be ashamed of yourself! "
  created: '2007-05-21 11:10:44'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "The persons of the Typeright website, e.g.\r\n\r\n- Clive Bruton (Fontzone)
    \r\n- Simon Daniels (Microsoft Typography)\r\n- Zuzana Licko (Emigre)\r\n\r\n(see
    http://www.typeright.org/insight.html for complete list)\r\n\r\nand the persons
    of the Leonard DuBoff outfit, e.g.\r\n\r\n- Colleen DuBoff \r\n- Leonard DuBoff
    \r\n- Mary Ann DuBoff\r\n\r\n(see http://www.dubofflaw.com/directory/index.html
    for complete list)\r\n\r\ncannot even list 5 Berne Convention states (out of 163
    Berne Convention states) whose copyright laws contain provisions for the protection
    of typeface design.\r\n\r\nNotwithstanding, these persons of the Typeright website
    headed by Leonard DuBoff disseminate the blatant lie <cite>\u201CType designers
    the world over enjoy legal protection for their typefaces - except those working
    in the United States\u201D</cite> for the purpose of deceiving the politicians
    in Washington.\r\n\r\nIt is not my job to prove <cite>\u201CMost developed countries
    protect typeface designs\u201D</cite>, because I did not disseminate this blatant
    lie.\r\n\r\nIf this blind lobbyist Leonard DuBoff, who cannot even distinguish
    between Frutiger and Zapfino, since he cannot see any typefaces, had read the
    copyright laws of all 163 Berne Convention states, he would not dare to disseminate
    his blatant lies.\r\n\r\nBut since this lobbyist never read the copyrights laws
    of\r\n\r\nAlbania\r\nAlgeria\r\nAndorra\r\nAntigua and Barbuda\r\nArgentina\r\nArmenia
    etc. etc. etc.\r\n\r\nhe promulgates his blatant lie that type designers in these
    countries enjoy legal protection for their typefaces.\r\n\r\nTypophiler \"sii\"
    alias Mr. Simon Daniels (http://typophile.com/user/1049) belongs to the Typeright
    website too (see http://www.typeright.org/insight.html).\r\n\r\nBut even Mr. Simon
    Daniels cannot name 5 states whose copyright laws contain provisions for the protection
    of typeface design, because the only purpose of Typeright is to deceive gullible
    visitors of this website and to deceive members of Congress in Washington.\r\n\r\nI
    repeat what I said above: You can easily check the falseness of Leonard DuBoff\u2019s
    statement by sending an email to him (lduboff [at] dubofflaw.com) requesting him
    to tick off those countries in above list of the 163 Berne Convention member states
    which - according to him - provide copyright protection for typeface designs.\r\n\r\nOr
    else ask \"sii\" to tick off above list, if you don't believe me."
  created: '2007-05-21 13:51:53'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "Listen - YOU are the one insulting people as shady, so-called, blind, making
    fun of others, mocking others, bragging to be Mr. Righteous. You know what: How
    about this?\r\n\r\nYOU PROVE IT, THEN WRITE SOMETHING!\r\n\r\nStop writing stuff,
    and when asked to prove it, you shrug and tell people to write emails. NO! Even
    should you be correct - this is absolutely unethical and actually not worth reading.
    People like you make me sick."
  created: '2007-05-21 15:37:49'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "On 21st May, I sent this email:\r\n\r\n-----------------------------------\r\n\r\nTo
    the attention of\r\n\r\nChristopher W. Brown \r\nLeonard D. DuBoff\r\nMary Ann
    DuBoff\r\nMarisa N. James \r\nChristy O. King\r\n\r\nRe: Claims made by Leonard
    D. DuBoff at Typeright Website\r\n\r\nLadies and Gentlemen:\r\n\r\nWith reference
    to website\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/33844\r\n\r\nyou are herewith requested
    to specify those RBC member states,\r\nwhose national copyright laws contain provisions
    for the protection\r\nof typeface design. \r\n\r\nYours faithfully,\r\n\r\nUlrich
    Stiehl, Heidelberg (Germany)\r\n(http://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers)\r\n\r\n\r\nEncl.:
    List of all 163 RBC member states"
  created: '2007-05-21 18:10:50'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "Oh, great!!\r\n\r\nListen, you should go and hide in a hole, okay? So you
    actually DID start this whole thread of bashing and insulting BEFORE getting any
    proof!\r\n\r\nSorry - but you are not worth talking to. Have a nice life. And
    listen - how about spending it somewhere else, hmmm? I read somewhere that you
    actually had plans to leave this community. Please do so."
  created: '2007-05-22 08:13:08'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "It is a waste of time to try to explain to you the legal principle of \"cui
    incumbat onus probandi\", as the chance is remote that you will be able to understand
    it.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-22 17:22:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, please feel free to not waste your time any more.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-22 17:25:59'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "Oh my god - now you've got me! A learned man, mighty in old, dead, and foreign
    tongues, hath spoken, so my argument is void. He that claimeth that someone is
    a shady character, thereby insulting him and making fun of his blindness by claiming
    that said person cannot read, may do so, without proof, provided that he knoweth
    enough Latin.\r\n\r\nOh no, wait! I actually can speak the damn language myself.
    *slap* \r\n\r\nSo in case you thought you could just ignore my argument (since
    I am undoubtedly right, and your behaviour highly unethical), and instead silence
    me by acting the superior intellectual, spouting Latin phrases you picked up somewhere
    - without REALLY knowing what it means - and of course not translating them in
    order to prove me being the small-and-meek, then you are...\r\n\r\n... mistaken.
    Dulce et decorum est, pro typographia mori :-)\r\n\r\nNow, just to get you silenced:
    Yes, it is a general rule that the party who alleges the affirmative of any proposition
    shall prove it. In court. Okay? IN COURT!\r\n\r\nAn example: if I claim in court
    that a font is a forgery (I heard this is a favorite word of yours, so I use this
    example just for you), I need to prove it, otherwise my argument is worthless,
    and the judge will not accept it. However, as you very well know, I can claim
    this on my website until doomsday - until there is someone PROVING that I am false,
    there is no way in hell to stop me from claiming it. You should know this, as
    I can see that your website is full of correct as well as very wrong accusations
    of this sort. Be glad that those companies take you for harmless, and leave you
    alone. It is called freedom of speech, by the way. Should I say this in Latin,
    so that it sounds better and impresses some idiot? Naw, better not.\r\n\r\nNow,
    taking your own legal argument, you here claim something without being able to
    prove it, so you are breaking the law you claim to rest on. You are claiming that
    what this lawyer says is not true (by the way, nowhere is it said that this is
    a legal text of any way) without having proof. The stuff on his site is information,
    and as such, may be wrong, exaggerated, correct, dumb, wishful thinking, twiddlestick,
    satire, fake, stupid, cum grano salis (mean, am I) or simpy biased - there is
    a lot of information out there on the internet like this. Your website, for example.
    \r\n\r\nSo, in dubio pro reo, smart aleck. You had no proof, but nevertheless
    started yapping. And now you are trying to get out of it by saying that the person
    you were yapping about should have proven what he's yapping about before yapping.
    Heh, before asking others do obey the law, how about doing it yourself?\r\n\r\nAnd
    don't you go and try to do the smart one on me. If you come up with Sanskrit next
    time, I'll give you some Klingon to think about! Now shut up and stop posting
    rubbish, UNLESS YOU CAN PROVE IT! And even if proved, please think about one thing
    before you post: is anyone likely to be interested in it?\r\n\r\nOh, and never
    again claim that anyone who is blind cannot have read anything, because of his
    blindness. I happen to have blind friends, and I love them dearly. They read more
    than I do, and we often talk about books. They are very book-learned, and they
    do their jobs fine. So never ever again claim that someone cannot do their job
    because he or she cannot read. That is plain dumb! Either admit it, or go away!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-22 18:31:04'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> UNLESS YOU CAN PROVE IT!\r\n\r\nEi incumbit probatio, qui dicit, non qui
    negat.\r\n\r\nThis means: It is NOT my job to prove \u201CMost developed countries
    protect typeface designs\u201D, because I did not disseminate this blatant lie.
    Although I do NOT have the onus probandi, I COULD prove that this blatant lie
    is a blatant lie.\r\n\r\nThe first country in the above list of the 163 Berne
    Convention countries is Albania. The following text proves that the Albanian copyright
    law does not protect typeface designs.\r\n\r\nWe could continue with the copyright
    law of Algeria, then with the copyright law of Andorra, then of Antigua, then
    of Argentina, then of Armenia etc. etc. etc. After having read all these copyright
    laws of all Berne Convention countries, it will become evident that Leonard DuBoff's
    statement\u201CMost developed countries protect typeface designs\u201D is a blatant
    lie.\r\n\r\n-----------\r\n\r\nChapter I\r\nThe Protection of Copyright\r\n\r\n1.
    This law protects the literary, artistic, public and other works (hereinafter
    referred to as \u201Cworks\u201D), including any original intellectual creation
    of this nature, regardless of their form of expression as:\r\n\r\n(a) written
    works including computer programs;\r\n\r\n(b) lectures, addresses, sermons and
    other orally expressed works;\r\n\r\n(c) musical works with or without accompanying
    text;\r\n\r\n(d) dramatic or dramatico-musical works;\r\n\r\n(dh) audiovisual
    works;\r\n\r\n(e) choreographic works and pantomimes;\r\n\r\n(f) works of fine
    arts: drawings, paintings, sculptures, engravings and lithography;\r\n\r\n(g)
    architectonic works;\r\n\r\n(h) photographic works;\r\n\r\n(i) works of applied
    art;\r\n\r\n(j) illustrations, maps, plans, sketches and three-dimensional works
    related to geography, topography, architecture and science.\r\n\r\nThe protection
    does not depend in the manner and form of expression, quality or aim of the work.\r\n\r\nThe
    protection shall not extend to ideas, procedures, processes, systems, ways of
    action, concepts, expressed principles or discoveries, which are foreseen and
    explained in the work.\r\n\r\nDerived Works and Collections\r\n\r\n2. The same
    protection as to the works is applied to:\r\n\r\n(a) translations, adaptations,
    arrangements, and other alterations of works and folkloric materials;\r\n\r\n(b)
    collections of works, popular sayings or data and facts as encyclopedias, anthologies
    and other sources of data which, by reason of the selection and arrangement of
    their contents constitute original creations.\r\n\r\nProtection of the works defined
    in the first paragraph is applied without prejudice to the copyright of the original
    works, which are used then for the protection of the derived works;\r\n\r\n3.
    The protection provided by this law for the literary and artistic works, shall
    not apply to:\r\n\r\n(a) summaries of the official gazette of legislative and
    administrative nature and their official translations;\r\n\r\n(b) popular sayings;\r\n\r\n(c)
    news of the day;\r\n\r\n(d) miscellaneous facts and data.\r\n\r\nChapter II\r\nRights
    Which Enjoy Protection\r\n\r\nMoral Rights of the Author\r\n\r\n4. The author
    of the work in addition to the economic rights defined by Article 5 of this law,
    even if they have been transferred by his desire (sic), has the right to:\r\n\r\n(a)
    claim authorship of the work, especially the right to write his name on the copies
    of the work. When allowed by practice and in conformity with the tradition, his
    name may accompany his work mentioned in public.\r\n\r\n(b) remain anonymous or
    use a pseudonym\r\n\r\n(c) object to any distortion, mutilation or modification
    and to other derogatory action in relation to his work, which would be prejudicial
    to his honor or reputation;\r\n\r\n(d) object the joint authorship put in an arbitrary
    way from other persons because of different reasons.\r\n\r\n(Hereinafter, the
    rights provided for in this article will be referred to as \u201Cmoral rights\u201D).\r\n\r\nEconomic
    Rights of the Author\r\n\r\n5. The author shall have the exclusive right of authorizing:\r\n\r\n(a)
    the reproduction of the work;\r\n\r\n(b) the import of the work within the country
    with the purpose of its distribution (selling, leasing renting, loaning) for/to
    the public;\r\n\r\n(c) the translation of the work;\r\n\r\n(d) the preparation
    of adaptations, alterations or other alterations of the work;\r\n\r\n(e) the public
    recitation of the work; \r\n\r\n(f) the communication of the work to the public
    by broadcasting and rebroadcasting;\r\n\r\n(g) the communication of the work to
    the public by wire or other means;\r\n\r\nThe author of an audiovisual work, or
    any other work like phonograms, computer programs, data base, and of any other
    work readable in machine, has the exclusive right to authorize giving on lease
    of his work.\r\n\r\n(Hereinafter the rights mentioned in this article will be
    referred to as \u201Ceconomic rights\u201D).\r\n\r\nChapter III\r\nLimitations
    of the Economic Rights\r\n\r\nFree Reproduction for Personal Use\r\n\r\n6. Reproduction
    of a published work without the author\u2019s approval and without payment or
    remuneration, according to the laws, is allowed only for personal use (use for
    research and scientific purposes included).\r\n\r\nThe first paragraph is not
    applicable for:\r\n\r\n(a) the reproduction of architectural works in terms of
    a building or other constructions;\r\n\r\n(b) the reprographic reproduction of
    fine arts works published (sic) in limited copies, the graphic presentation of
    musical works, notebooks or other publications, which are meant for a single use
    purpose;\r\n\r\n(c) the reproduction of computer programs, excluding what provided
    for in Article 13;\r\n\r\n(d) any other reproduction which would come against
    the process of work employment or would damage the legitime interest of the author.\r\n\r\nFree
    Reproduction in the Form of Citation\r\n\r\n7. It is permitted, without the author\u2019s
    approval and without payment or remuneration, the citing, according to the law,
    of a published work in another work under the condition that in the citation must
    be included the source and author\u2019s name, if it is in the original work.
    The citing has to be honest, correct and it must not exceed the context of its
    original use.\r\n\r\nFree Usage for Teaching\r\n\r\n8. It is permitted the free
    usage of a work for teaching, without the author\u2019s approval and without payment
    or remuneration, upon the condition that in the citation must be included the
    source and author\u2019s name, if it is in the original work. It is permitted
    to:\r\n\r\n(a) use a published work, according to the law, for illustrations in
    publications, broadcasts or sound or visual recordings for teaching;\r\n\r\n(b)
    reproduce, my means of reprography, special articles published according to the
    law in a newspaper or magazine; to reproduce written pieces taken out of a published
    work according to the law, or a short full work published according to the law,
    for the purpose of teaching or for the period of the exams in educational institutions.
    The activity of these institution must not bear any direct or indirect profit
    purpose and the use of the work must be always honest.\r\n\r\nFree Reproduction
    from Libraries and Archives\r\n\r\n9. The reproduction from a library or archive,
    which activity does not bear any direct or indirect profit purposes, is permitted
    without the author\u2019s approval and without payment or remuneration. The copy
    under discussion belongs then to the fund of the library\u2019s archives with
    the purpose of:\r\n\r\n(a) storing and if necessary (in case of loss or overuse)
    replacing the work itself;\r\n\r\n(b) replacing of a copy (lost, damaged or overused)
    for the permanent fund of another library or archive.\r\n\r\nThese procedures
    can take place if it is not possible to buy an original copy for a long period
    of time and under reasonable conditions.\r\n\r\nFree Reproduction for Legal and
    Administrative Purposes\r\n\r\n10. The reproduction of a work is permitted, without
    the author\u2019s approval and without payment or remuneration, for the purpose
    of using it in a court case or in other administrative processes within a reasonable
    required extend.\r\n\r\nFree Use for the Purpose of Giving Information\r\n\r\n11.
    It is permitted without the author\u2019s approval and without payment or remuneration
    but the obligatory citing (mentioning) the source and the author\u2019s name if
    it is in the original work:\r\n\r\n(a) the reproduction and distribution by the
    press, the broadcasting or the communication to the public by wire of any article
    published in newspapers or magazines treating an economic, political or religious
    issue or of any other broadcast work, if the right of reproduction, broadcast
    or any other similar communication to the public is not expressly limited;\r\n\r\n(b)
    the reproduction and offering to the public, in case of news on current events,
    of a work seen or heard during that event, by means of photography, cinematography,
    broadcasting or communication to the public by wire, without exceeding the informatory
    purpose;\r\n\r\n(c) the reproduction by the press, broadcast or by other mass
    media means of political speeches, lectures, reports, sermons and of other works
    similar to them, held on public places, as well as the speeches held during legal
    proceedings, when all these have an informatory purpose (hence not exceeding this
    informatory purpose). The authors of these works have the right to publish works
    summaries.\r\n\r\nFree Use of Pictures of Publicly Exposed Works\r\n\r\n12. It
    is allowed without the author\u2019s approval and without payment or remuneration
    the reproduction, broadcasting or the communication to the public by wire of a
    picture of an architectonic work, of a fine arts work, photographic work or applied
    arts work placed in a public area, excluding the cases when the picture is the
    main theme of the reproduction, broadcasting or communication and when it is used
    for commercial purposes.\r\n\r\nFree Reproduction and Adaptation for Computer
    Programs\r\n\r\n13. The legal owner of a computer program is permitted, without
    the author\u2019s approval and without payment or remuneration, to make a copy
    or adaptation of such a program, if this copy or adaptation is:\r\n\r\n(a) indispensable
    for the usage of the computer program and for the purpose the program is legally
    obtained;\r\n\r\n(b) used for archives and if necessary (in case of lost, damage
    or overuse) to replace the legally obtained copy.\r\n\r\nThe copy or the adaptation
    provided for in the first paragraph is destroyed in cases when the ownership of
    the copies of the computer programs is no more legal.\r\n\r\nFree Use of Computer
    Programmes\r\n\r\n14. The author\u2019s approval is not obligatory if the reproduction
    of the code and the adaptation (\u201Ctranslation\u201D) are necessary to get
    the required data for the interaction of a computer program which is created independently
    of the other programs. The reproduction can be made upon the following conditions:\r\n\r\n(a)
    when this action is done by means of a license, by another person who has the
    right to use the copy of the program or by any authorized person;\r\n\r\n(b) when
    the necessary data for interaction are not previously given to the persons mentioned
    in paragraph \u201Ca\u201D;\r\n\r\n(c) when these actions are limited in those
    parts of the original program which are indispensable for the creation of the
    interaction capacity.\r\n\r\nThe use of the following data is prohibited because
    of the provisions of the first paragraph:\r\n\r\n(a) for a purpose different from
    that of interacting capacity of the computer program created in an independent
    way;\r\n\r\n(b) for giving them over to third parties, except for the cases when
    this is indispensable for the interacting capacity of the computer created in
    an independent way;\r\n\r\n(c) for the development, production and handing over
    of a similar computer program concerning the way of expression or for any other
    purpose which violates the copyright.\r\n\r\nThe provisions of this article must
    not be interpreted in such a way that causes its applications to come contrary
    to the normal use of the computer program, or infringes the legitimate rights
    of the author.\r\n\r\nFree Temporary Recording by Broadcasting Organizations\r\n\r\n15.
    A broadcasting organization can record for temporary use, by its own means, a
    work on which it enjoys this right without the author\u2019s approval and without
    special remuneration. This agency is obliged to destroy this recording within
    six months from the day of recording it, except when there is an agreement with
    the author for longer terms. However, a recording of this kind may be stored in
    official archives even without an agreement, if it has special historical or documenting
    values.\r\n\r\nThe Free Public Performance\r\n\r\n16. It is permitted without
    the author\u2019s approval and without payment or remuneration the public performance
    of a work during the activity of a school institution, prepared by the staff,
    if the audience is simply the staff and the students of that institution, the
    parents or tutors of the students, as well as other people who have a direct relation
    to the institution.\r\n\r\nChapter IV\r\nTerm of Protection\r\n\r\nTerm of Protection\r\n\r\n17.
    Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, the moral rights of a work are protected
    forever and the economic rights of a work are protected during the whole author\u2019s
    life and 70 years after his/her death.1\r\n\r\nTerm of Protection of Anonymous
    or Pseudonymous Works\r\n\r\n18.2 The moral and economic rights of an anonymous
    or pseudonymous work are protected for 70 years from the first day of the first
    legal publication of the work. If the identity of the author is disclosed before
    the expiration of the term, the provisions of Article 17 and 18 are applied, according
    to the case.\r\n\r\nTerm of Protection of Photographic and Audiovisual Works of
    Joint Authorship\r\n\r\n19.3 The moral and economic rights of a photographic or
    audiovisual work of joint authorship are protected for 70 years from the day this
    work is legally offered to the public or in a contrary case, for 70 years from
    the day of the production of the work, i.e. 70 years after its creation.\r\n\r\nTerm
    of Protection of Works of Applied Art\r\n\r\n20. The moral and economic rights
    of works of applied art are protected for 25 years from the day of its production.\r\n\r\nCalculation
    of the Terms\r\n\r\n21. The term provided by this Chapter lasts to the end of
    a calendar year.\r\n\r\nChapter V\r\nThe Ownership of the Copyright\r\n\r\nThe
    Ownership of the Copyright\r\n\r\n22. The author of a work is the first owner
    of the moral and economic rights on his work.\r\n\r\nThe Ownership of the Copyright
    on Works of Joint Authorship\r\n\r\n23. The co-authors of a work of joint authorship
    are the first co-owners of the moral and economic rights of this work. But, if
    this work can be divided into parts (i.e. if its parts can be reproduced, stored
    or used separately), the co-authors have the independent rights for these parts
    of the work, maintaining the co-ownership of the rights for the common work.\r\n\r\nThe
    Ownership of the Copyright on Collective Works\r\n\r\n24. The owner of the moral
    and economic rights of a collective work will be the physical person or the legal
    entity on whose initiative and direction the work was created and whose name appears
    as the author of the work.\r\n\r\nThe Ownership of the Copyright on the Works
    Created\r\non an Employment Contractual Basis\r\n\r\n25. If the work is created
    by an author for a physical person or a legal entity (hereinafter referred to
    as \u201Cemployer\u201D) on an employment contractual basis and during employment
    period, the first owner of the moral and economic rights will be the author, unless
    the contract provides otherwise. The economic rights of such a work will be considered
    transferred to the employer at the required extent for the proper activities that
    the employer accomplishes at the time the work is created.\r\n\r\nOwnership of
    the Copyright for Audiovisual Works\r\n\r\n26.4 The producer of the audiovisual
    work will be the natural or juridical person that undertake the initiative to
    create the work.\r\n\r\nThe contract between the producer and the compositor and
    the others authors of an audiovisual work provides for the transfer to the producer
    of the right to use of the audiovisual work, without prejudice to the moral and
    economic rights of the author.\r\n\r\nThe audiovisual work is considered finished
    when the final version is decided upon agreement between the author or co-authors
    and the producer.\r\n\r\nThe remuneration of the authors for the use of the work
    is made according to the circumstances and manners of usage.\r\n\r\nObtaining
    the Authorship\r\n\r\n27. In order that the author of a work is recognized to
    be as such, and consequently to have the right to make a legal complaint in case
    of procedure violation, in lack of contrary facts, it will be enough that his
    name appears in the work in the usual way.\r\n\r\nIn case of an anonymous or pseudonymous
    work, the editor, whose name appears in the work has the responsibility to represent
    the author, and when there are no contrary facts, he has the right to protect
    the author and ask the enforcement of the author\u2019s right. This paragraph
    is not valid when the author discloses his identity and proves the claim on the
    work\u2019s authorship.\r\n\r\nPresuming of the Producer\u2019s Right\r\n\r\n28.
    The natural or juridical person, whose name appears on an audiovisual work as
    the producer of this work, will be considered the producer of such a work if there
    are no facts to contradict this.\r\n\r\nChapter VI\r\nTransferring of the Rights
    and the Licenses\r\n\r\nTransferring of the Rights\r\n\r\n29. Transferring the
    economic rights can be done by assignment between the living people, by provisions
    of legal heritage or by will.\r\n\r\nMoral rights can not be transferred between
    living people, but can be transferred by provisions of legal heritage or by will.\r\n\r\nLicenses\r\n\r\n30.
    The author of a work may issue a license to third persons to perform activities
    which are included in his economic rights. These licenses may be exclusive or
    non-exclusive.\r\n\r\nThe non-exclusive license enables the licensee the right
    to perform activities related to the author and to other licensees according to
    the rules.\r\n\r\nExclusive license enables the licensee the right to perform
    activities which exclude others, even of the author itself, according to the rules.\r\n\r\nNo
    license can be considered as a non-exclusive one apart from cases when it is expressly
    defined in the contract between the licensee and the author.\r\n\r\nForm of Contracts
    for Transfers and Licenses\r\n\r\n31. Contracts for transferring the economic
    rights as well as the exclusive licenses, for performing activities included in
    the economic rights, are made in a written form.\r\n\r\nPurpose of Transfers and
    Licenses\r\n\r\n32. The transfer of the economic rights and licenses, for performing
    activities included in the economic rights, can be limited to the performance
    of some specific activities as well as to the time period, purpose, territorial
    extension, width and the ways and means of usage.\r\n\r\nThe fact that the name
    of the territory in which the economic rights are transferred or the license is
    given to act according to the economic rights, is not mentioned is considered
    as a limitation of the transfer or the license within the territory in which the
    transfer is made.\r\n\r\nThe fact that the extension, ways and means of usage
    for which the transfer of the economic rights is made or the license to act according
    to the economic rights is granted, is not mentioned, is considered a limitation
    of the transfer or the license to the extension, ways and means of usage, that
    are necessary for the provided purpose at the time when the right of transfer
    or the license is granted.\r\n\r\nThe Alienation of the Original Work or its Copies.\r\nTransfers
    and Licenses Concerning the Copyright of these Works\r\n\r\n33. When the author
    alienates the original or a copy of his work, it is not considered that the economic
    rights and the grant of a license for performing activities included in the economic
    rights are transferred too, unless it is provided otherwise by the contract.\r\n\r\nDespite
    the first paragraph, the legitimate buyer of an original work or its copy, has
    the right to expose the original work or its copy directly to the public, unless
    the contract provides otherwise.\r\n\r\nThe privilege defined in the second paragraph
    does not include the persons who possess the original works or their copies because
    of a rent, lease or other ways, without being the owners of the original work
    or of its copy.\r\n\r\nChapter VII\r\nProtection of Performances, Phonograms and
    Programmes\r\n\r\nActs Requiring the Authorization of the Performers\r\n\r\n34.
    No one can undertake the following acts without the authorization of the performers:\r\n\r\n(1)
    The broadcasting of their programmes, except for the cases when the programme
    consists of:\r\n\r\n(a) a fixation of the performance, excluding the registration
    done according to the provisions of Article 39;\r\n\r\n(b) a rebroadcasting authorized
    by the organization which has broadcasted the programme for the first time;\r\n\r\n(2)
    The communication to the public of their performance, except for the cases when
    this performance consists of:\r\n\r\n(a) the fixation of the programme;\r\n\r\n(b)
    the broadcasting of the performance.\r\n\r\n(3) The fixation of the unfixed performance\r\n\r\n(4)
    The reproduction of fixation of their performance in the following cases:\r\n\r\n(a)
    when the performance is fixed once without the authorization of the performers;\r\n\r\n(b)
    when the reproduction is done for purposes other than those authorized by the
    performers;\r\n\r\n(c) when the performance is first fixed in compliance with
    the provisions of Article 35, but the reproduction is done for purposes other
    than those defined in that article.\r\n\r\nIn case of absence of a contractual
    agreement that provides otherwise or of the employment condition, out of the which
    the contrary is deducted;\r\n\r\n(a) the authorization to broadcast does not mean
    authorization to great license to other organization to broadcast the performance;\r\n\r\n(b)
    the authorization for broadcasting does not mean authorization to fix the performance;\r\n\r\n(c)
    the authorization for the fixation of the performance and the reproduction of
    the fixation does not mean the authorization to broadcast the performance;\r\n\r\n(d)
    The authorization for broadcasting and fixing the performance does not mean authorization
    for reproduction and fixation.\r\n\r\nThe provisions of the first and second paragraph,
    letters \u2018c\u2019 and \u2018d\u2019 are not applicable from the moment that
    the performers give the authorization to include their performance in a visual
    and audiovisual fixation.\r\n\r\nNone of the paragraphs of this article takes
    off the right of the performers to sign contracts in more favorable conditions
    for their performances.\r\n\r\nThe term of protection provided for in the article
    lasts for 50 years, starting from the end of the year in which the performance
    took place\r\n\r\nActs Requiring the Authorization of the Producers of Phonograms\r\n\r\n35.
    Without the authorization of the producers of phonograms no one can;\r\n\r\n(a)
    reproduce directly or indirectly the phonogram;\r\n\r\n(b) import any copy of
    the phonogram;\r\n\r\n(c) lease or loan copy of the phonogram \r\n\r\nThe term
    of protection provided for in the first paragraph lasts for 50 years, starting
    from the end of the year, in which of the phonogram was produced for the first
    time.\r\n\r\nRemuneration for the Production of Phonograms\r\n\r\n36. If a phonogram
    published for commercial purposes, or its reproduction, is directly used for the
    broadcasting or the communication to the public, the user pays to the producer
    a remuneration, upon agreement, for the performers and the producers of the phonogram.\r\n\r\nIf
    there is no agreement between the performers and the producer, then the half of
    the remuneration the producer has been given, shall go to the performers by the
    producer.\r\n\r\nThe obligation for a remuneration, as provided in this article,
    ends up in 50 years, starting from the end of the year in which the phonogram
    was for the first time produced.\r\n\r\nActs Requiring the Authorization of the
    Broadcasting Organizations\r\n\r\n37. No one can undertake the following acts
    without the authorization of the broadcasting organizations:\r\n\r\n(1) The rebroadcasting
    of their programmes\r\n\r\n(2) The fixation of their programmes\r\n\r\n(3) Reproduction
    of the fixation of their programmes:\r\n\r\n(a) When the fixation on which bases
    a reproduction is done, is realized without the authorization of these organizations,
    or\r\n\r\n(b) When the broadcasting is firstly fixed in accordance with the provisions
    of Article 39, but the reproduction is done for other purposes from those mentioned
    in that article.\r\n\r\nAs provided in this Article, protection ends up in 50
    years, starting from the end of the year, in which the broadcasting took place.\r\n\r\nLimitations
    on the Protection\r\n\r\n38. Articles 35, 36 and 37 of this law are not applied
    when acts provided by these articles are undertaken;\r\n\r\n(a) for private use,
    teaching or scientific research, on these condition that the use does not conflict
    with the normal use (of a performance, phonogram or broadcasting) and always without
    prejudice at a large scale to the legitimate interests of the holders of the rights
    provided in this chapter;\r\n\r\n(b) for issuing current topics, provided that
    only short pieces of a performance, phonogram or broadcast are used; \r\n\r\n(c)
    for citations, in short pieces from a performance, phonogram or broadcast, provided
    that these citations concur with the usual practice of the informatory purpose
    of these citations;\r\n\r\n(d) for other purposes which are included in the limitations
    for the economic rights of the literary and artistic works, as provided in Chapter
    III.\r\n\r\nRequirements for an authorization mentioned in the Articles 35, 36
    and 37 to fix performances and broadcastings, to reproduce published phonograms
    for commercial purposes, are not taken into consideration when the reproduction
    is done by a broadcasting organization with its own means and for its own programmes
    only in case of:\r\n\r\n(a) broadcasting the fixation of a performance or of its
    reproduction, as defined by this paragraph, the broadcasting organization has
    the right to broadcast exactly this performance;\r\n\r\n(b) broadcasting the fixation
    of a program or its reproduction or such a fixation of a program made according
    to the conditions of this program, the broadcasting organization has the right
    to broadcast exactly this program;\r\n\r\n(c) a fixation, made according to this
    paragraph, or its reproduction, the fixation of any reproduction is destroyed
    within sixty days, except for a single copy which can be preserved only for archive
    purposes.\r\n\r\nSigns for the Protection of the Phonograms\r\n\r\n39. As a condition
    for the protection of the phonograms provided for by Articles 35, 36 of this law,
    all the copies of the published phonograms and their packages must bear the sign
    \u201CP\u201D (which must be circled), accompanied by the date and the year of
    the first publication, with the purpose of making known that it is a protected
    production. If the copies or their packages does not identify the producer or
    the buyer of the patent, by giving the name, the production mark or other notes,
    then the name of the holder of the rights of the productions must be included
    in the notes. When the copies or their packages do not identify the main performers,
    the notes then must include the name of the person who has the right of the authorship
    of these performers, as provided by this law.\r\n\r\nField of Application\r\n\r\n40.
    The protection of the performers as provided by Articles 35 and 36 of this law
    is applicable when:\r\n\r\n(a) the performer has the Albanian citizenship;\r\n\r\n(b)
    the performance took place in the territory of Albania;\r\n\r\n(c) the performance
    is fixed in a phonogram, which is included in the protection\u2019s rights, as
    provided by the third paragraph;\r\n\r\n(d) the performance which is not registered
    in the phonogram, is included in a testament which enjoys the right of protection
    as provided by the third paragraph.\r\n\r\nThe protections of phonograms provided
    by Article 36 and 37 is applicable when:\r\n\r\n(a) the headquarters of the organization
    is in Albania;\r\n\r\n(b) the program is broadcasted by a station situated in
    Albania.\r\n\r\nThis law is applied also for performances, phonograms and programs
    which must be protected in accordance with the conventions on which Albania adheres.\r\n\r\nChapter
    VIII\r\nThe Collective Administration of Copyright and Neighboring Rights\r\n\r\nThe
    Agencies for the Protection of Copyright\r\n\r\n41.5 The authors may protect their
    rights themselves. When they can not exercise these rights themselves, they have
    the right to found agencies for the protection of their rights in a collective
    way. The agencies of authors are private companies of partners which do not have
    commercial aims and operation of which is guided by a statute and the general
    regulations. The agencies are created according to the branches of art.\r\n\r\nActs
    which Regulate the Operation of the Agency\r\n\r\n42.6 The agencies operate in
    accordance with this law, other legal and sub-legal acts as well as with their
    own statutes and regulations approved by the Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports.\r\n\r\nAdmissions
    in the Agency\r\n\r\n43.7 The agencies accept for co-operation between all the
    branches of art all the authors, their heirs, producers of records, cassettes
    or films and those who bear the authorship.\r\n\r\nThe prerogative attributes
    of the agencies are determined by open voting in the General Assembly, which functions
    as defined by its own statute and general regulations, prepared by the agencies
    and approved by the Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports.\r\n\r\nSetting Tariffs\r\n\r\n44.8\u2014(1)
    The tariffs for the users of the artistic property on the part of budgetary or
    non-budgetary institutions are regulated by Law No. 7581, dated 7.7.1992 \u201COn
    Prices and Tariffs\u201D or by contracts between the users and the collective
    agencies founded according to the branches of art.\r\n\r\nUsers of the intellectual
    property in the field of art and culture, budgetary or non-budgetary, within 15
    December of each previous year are require to enter into contract with agencies
    of authors, to determine obligations of parties and tariffs that should be paid
    such agencies of authors for next year.\r\n\r\nThe use of literary works without
    contract and without the authorization of the agencies of authors is a infringement
    of copyright and entails penal responsibility.\r\n\r\n(2) Tariffs for distribution
    are set after discussions between authors and commissions and after approval by
    the administrative board of the agencies of authors.\r\n\r\nCriteria for Managing
    Revenues\r\n\r\n45.9 Agencies are required to manage strictly equally all rights
    provided to them. They respect the principle that any member should take his portion
    which belongs to him from the use of his work.\r\n\r\nSuch remuneration is distributed
    each year, each six or three months for each author or co-author.\r\n\r\nThe Minister
    of Culture, Youth and Sports supervises the agencies. The authorized representatives
    of the Minister attend the meetings of the agencies and intervene only in case
    of infringement of the normative acts that regulate their activity.\r\n\r\nFunctions
    of Agencies of Authors\r\n\r\n46.10 The agencies of authors have the following
    functions:\r\n\r\n(a) negotiate on the conditions and remuneration to be paid
    and issue authorizations for actions included in the exclusive economic rights
    administered by the agencies;\r\n\r\n(b) collect remuneration for the authorizations
    mentioned in item (a);\r\n\r\n(c) distribute collected remuneration to the authors;\r\n\r\n(d)
    carry out other activities, for which they are authorized by the authors as provided
    for by Article 48 on the exercising of the exclusive economic right that they
    administer.\r\n\r\nGuarantees for Running the Agencies of Authors\r\n\r\n47.11
    The administration of the rights as provided by in the Article 46 must not restrict
    the exclusive economic rights administered by the agencies of authors. In order
    to guarantee and prevent such restrictions, all decisions for methods and rules
    of collecting and distributing remuneration, as well as for other important aspects
    of administrative actions of agencies are taken by authors who are protected by
    agencies.\r\n\r\nThe authors whose rights are administered by the agencies, are
    provided with regular, full, and detailed information on the activity of their
    agency, for exercising their rights.\r\n\r\nWithout the authorization of the authors,
    whose rights are administered directly or through their representatives, no remuneration
    collected by the agency of authors can be used for other purposes, except purposes
    relating to covering actual overhead cost of rights in question and distributing
    the remaining portion of remuneration after the cost mentioned above is deducted.\r\n\r\nThe
    amount of the remuneration collected by the agency of authors, after deduction
    of the actual overhead cost, profit tax according to the appropriate law and other
    possible deductions that the authors themselves authorize, is distributed to the
    authors in a just ratio with the actual use of their works.\r\n\r\nThe Common
    Administration of the Rights for Performances,\r\nPhonograms and Programs\r\n\r\n48.
    The rights of performance, phonograms and programs mentioned in the Chapter VII
    (Articles 42 and 47) will be applied mutatis mutandis.\r\n\r\nPosition of Foreign
    Authors\r\n\r\n49. The works of the foreign authors are protected by the dispositions
    of this law and the international conventions to which the Republic of Albania
    adheres.\r\n\r\nChapter IX\r\nMeasures and Sanctions in Case of Violation of the
    Rights Defined by this Law\r\n\r\n50. The authors or the persons who are enjoying
    their rights on a work according to this law are entitled to challenge at the
    court if they are hindered in exercising these rights or they record that someone
    else in using them unjustly.\r\n\r\nThe court considers the case on the basis
    of norms defined in this law and decides on the moral and economic rights of the
    work.\r\n\r\nAfter the challenge made by the agency of authors or by any of their
    associations against the person who has made use of the moral and economic rights
    of the work created in the sense of this law, the penal case starts according
    to the provisions defined in the Penal Code.\r\n\r\nThe penal case stops upon
    the request of the author of the work.\r\n\r\nChapter X\r\nGeneral Provisions\r\n\r\nField
    of Application\r\n\r\n51.12 The provisions of this act refer to:\r\n\r\n(a) works
    of the authors who have Albanian citizenship or live permanently in Albania;\r\n\r\n(b)
    works which are published for the first time in Albania, in spite of the citizenship
    or the inhabiting place of the authors;\r\n\r\n(c) Intellectual property of art
    works, created before this law was approved, are used according to the dispositions
    determined by this law provided that the economic rights are fulfilled after the
    proposed changes have come into power.\r\n\r\nThis act is applicable to:\r\n\r\n(a)
    unpublished works or published for the first time in a foreign country from authors
    with foreign citizenship and with permanent residence in a foreign country, in
    the cases when the country where the author lives, or when the works are published,
    the country where they are published for the first time, offers the same protective
    measures for the authors with Albanian citizenship or living in Albania for their
    unpublished works or published for the first time in Albania;\r\n\r\n(b) works
    which will be protected in Albania in accordance with international conventions
    to which Albania adheres.\r\n\r\nSub-Legal Acts for the Implementation of the
    Law\r\n\r\n52. The Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sports,
    the Committee of Science and Technique and the Ministry of Education are in charged
    to issue the instructions and the respective regulations to the implementation
    of this law.\r\n\r\n53. Article 315 up to 328 of the Civil Code of the Republic
    of Albania are repealed.\r\n\r\n54. This law becomes effective immediately.\r\n\r\nLaw
    No. 7564, dated 19.05.1992\r\n\r\nProclaimed by decree No. 192, dated 23.05.1992
    of the President of the Republic of Albania, Sali Berisha.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-22 22:14:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Get lostum promptus, stinkit lawyerum.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-22 22:23:17'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: 'Uli, there are some deep-seated beliefs people don''t want challenged. Typeright
    is evidently one of them. Clive has a history of not getting the facts right.
    Wouldn''t surprise me if he hangs out with a lawyer that makes mistakes. '
  created: '2007-05-22 22:41:45'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Uli:\r\n\r\nWhat do you want from us? \r\n\r\nWhy do you care about these
    topics? \r\n\r\nI ask because it seems you are completely uninvolved with type
    making, marketing or use, and it also seems that you have no regard for anyone
    who is involved. So I don't understand your basic motivation. \r\n\r\nBesides
    that, your strident, accusing tone and unrealistic and flawed logic make your
    posts unpleasant and pointless to read. Nobody needs the entire text of any country's
    copyright law posted here. Consider what Typophile is for, and whether your diatribes
    really have a place here. \r\n\r\nFor perspective, consider whether you would
    be satisfied to be involved in the film, garment, food, automotive, electronics
    or pharmaceutical industries, or in government. Do you imagine any of them to
    be pure, holy oases of moral rectitude? You do not have a right to expect perfect
    ethical consistency from the type industry, and you do not have a right to expect
    Typophile to support you or provide answers, especially when you have such vague
    goals, so little direct involvement, and such a bad attitude."
  created: '2007-05-22 22:56:11'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "You really are a cutie. Let's keep on ignoring other people's points, since
    they are uncomfortably true, and let's just go on harping about something nobody
    cares about.\r\n\r\nYou just don't get it, so let me put it simple: This is not
    about the shady lawyer's website anymore. It is about YOU and your inacceptible
    behaviour! This is no way to post things, especially when we're talking about
    accusations!\r\n\r\n1. You claim somebody is a blatant liar\r\n2. When asked if
    you have proof for such a harsh accusation, you state that you do NOT have proof,
    and furthermore that YOU DO NOT NEED PROOF! You are elligible to call anyone a
    blatant liar because YOU think or imagine that this is so.\r\n3. When pressed
    hard, you finally start your first efforts to prove your point, still insisting
    on the fact that you can call someone a blatant liar in public without a shred
    of proof, although you claim that you COULD prove it, although you STILL haven't
    done so.\r\n4. Since impressing people with Latin did not work, you post a long
    legal text in the hope of making people shut up. Since the text is from 1992 and
    covers just one country, no one is impressed.\r\n\r\nIt is your way of arguing
    which is sickening. Let me just turn this around:\r\n\r\n1. I call you a blatant
    liar because of something you say on your website.\r\n2. When challenged, I say
    it is not my job to prove it.\r\n\r\nWould you like it? WOULD YOU LIKE IT? And
    I am quite sure I can prove it, I just have to browse through your website and
    then do a little research, but actually, why should I, when it is so much more
    comfortable to simply claim it BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE IT?! Hey, you are a shady liar!
    A blatant forger! Wow, that felt good! And furthermore, you have freckles and
    talk with a Danish accent. And wasn't that you I saw with this prostitute last
    night? PROOF? Sheesh, who needs it?\r\n\r\nDo you really REALLY think you are
    such a great chap when you walk around claiming things without really knowing?
    Do you know how these people are called?\r\n\r\nAnd one more thing, you despicable
    Mr. Righteous:\r\n\r\n\"due to his blindness, he could not read the copyright
    laws of the 162 foreign Berne convention states\"\r\n\r\nis a way of arguing which
    will definitely cause you to get hurt, should I ever meet you. So blind people
    cannot do their job because they cannot read anything. Can you hear yourself talking?
    HELLO?? HELLOOOO? ANYBODY HOME? Stop ignoring that your way of arguing is\r\n\r\na.
    wrong\r\nb. not acceptable to anyone I know\r\nc. probably not even acceptable
    to yourself, should anyone use this method on you\r\n\r\nIf I were a mod here,
    and you should thank god that I'm not, I would delete each and every post from
    you which claims something and insults somebody without being able to prove it.\r\n\r\nPlease,
    go away. No one wants to talk to you here. Learn how to argue properly. Don't
    come back until you've learnt it."
  created: '2007-05-23 07:24:09'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: In view of the pathological hatred of this Pike Werfer, Members of Congress
    in Washington receiving this bizarre petition (www.typeright.org/petition.html)
    containing the blatant lie "that copyright laws in most developed countries provide
    protection for the typeface designer" should watch out that they do not get harmed
    by aggressive petitioners.
  created: '2007-05-23 08:40:58'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "I see what the other guys mean.... it is useless talking to you. You do not
    even consider that you might have done something wrong, do not take into consideration
    any point brought up in a discussion, but simply go on rambling, feeling mighty
    grand. Blahblahblah.\r\n\r\nOne last try, before I give up on you!\r\n\r\nWhat
    about:\r\n\r\n1. I accuse someone, but I do not have proof. Is this okay?\r\n2.
    I claim blind people are not being able to read. Is this ethical?\r\n3. I call
    something a blatant lie, but actually don't know, but just assume. Is this correct?\r\n4.
    I state that something published on a website is a binding fact, referring to
    onus probandi, although websites by their nature are in no legal way bound to
    give facts, and the legal phrase of onus probandi does not apply here. Am I doing
    the right thing?\r\n5. When people oppose me, I ignore their objections, such
    as the above questions, but keep on repeating my point, trying to find ways out
    of the argument, which I de facto lost. Am I a nice person?\r\n6. You post things
    on a forum. The majority of community members tell you to stop doing it, because
    they either don't believe you, don't care what you write about, or don't like
    the way you write it. Should you ignore them and go on annoying them, or should
    you reconsider?\r\n7. You have nothing to do with type, and many people here,
    renowned designers and type specialists, have told you to get some education before
    talking about something you do not fully understand. Should you ignore them, or
    could they maybe have a point?\r\n8. You state that you publish all this stuff
    so that prosecutors can use it to bring these blatant cases before the courts.
    Has this ever happened? If not, could you think of a reason? Are all those prosecutors
    lazy - or maybe, just a slight possibility, could it be that they think your wrong?\r\n\r\nPlease
    answer each question, using the according number.\r\n\r\nOh and .... I don't feel
    any pathological hatred. I pity you. You must have a boring life. It's too bad
    you picked our scene to hanf around. I think the shady forgers in the motorcycle
    scene are nice, too. Go and tell those Honda bikers over there that it is a blatant
    lie that their bike is an original - it is a forged Harley!! Go tell 'em. :-)\r\n\r\nHmmm....
    somehow I begin to get an idea why Uli decided to wreck the nerves of us type
    people. We are just too nice. We need some type hooligans :-)) "
  created: '2007-05-23 10:31:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, single lines of ridicule are already more attention than this warrants.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-23 14:31:30'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "I received a cryptic email from Mr. DuBoff. It seems that he wants to deny
    that he has been the General Counsel of Typeright for the past ten years and that
    he wants to attribute the legal statements made at this website to others.\r\n\r\n(For
    the term of \"General Counsel\" see a legal dictionary, or see Wikipedia, etc.)\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-23 15:16:32'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Clearly we are being too delicate here. The real message, Uli, is:\r\n\r\nYou
    and your paranoid obsessions are not interesting. They are boring. I don't care
    about inaccuracies in old websites, and you have no point or purpose. Please shut
    up. "
  created: '2007-05-24 01:18:29'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: The real words are  <em>We all invoke [[The Silence Brigade]].</em>
  created: '2007-05-24 01:39:33'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "@Linda - that is SO cool!! Thanks for pointing this out to me :-) Since Uli
    is not willing to answer my questions (since he is intelligent enough to know
    that this would embarrass him greatly), I think this is a nice method of getting
    rid of trolls.\r\n\r\nI invoke The Silence Brigade!"
  created: '2007-05-24 08:36:00'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: The only problem with invoking [[The Silence Brigade]] is that I highly doubt
    any of us, when we were young, or even still, could win a game of "Who can be
    quiet the longest?". ;^)
  created: '2007-05-24 17:41:31'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: Plus, it's the opposite effect that I want.
  created: '2007-05-24 17:49:45'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "But it's worth a try, Tiff: even a brief reduction in the vitriol level would
    be an improvement....  Some people don't seem to realize that screaming (on both
    sides) is not terribly effective.\r\n\r\nAnd you're quite welcome, Pike.  ;-)"
  created: '2007-05-24 23:04:57'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: pettyfogging! I just learned a new word!
  created: '2007-05-25 15:22:26'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Maybe if we just keep talking about it we will drown out the other stuff.
    :^P
  created: '2007-05-26 00:09:01'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "@Linda - you deserve a bow. :-)\r\n\r\nAnd pettyfogging is a nice one....
    :-)"
  created: '2007-05-31 09:01:25'
- author:
    name: seneca
  body: Mexican law doesnt contain provisions that typeface designs are copyrighted.
  created: '2007-08-20 06:05:30'
- author:
    name: seneca
  body: "My point of view about you guys: Werfer es un elitista sangron que bien puede
    vivir a diario arrpoado de mentiras, utilizandolas, viendolas como algo \"normal\"
    mientras que Uli se desga\xF1ita defendiendo la verdad (o sea, atacando la mentira)
    sin que tenga eco en este ambiente groseramente individualista y envidioso. And
    as you are so, but so well read, well I guess I don't need to translate."
  created: '2007-08-20 06:24:28'
- author:
    name: Playground_Girl
  body: "The Berne Convention provides, in Article 2, that \"[t]he expression 'literary
    and artistic works' shall include every production in the literary, scientific
    and artistic domain, whatever may be the mode or form of its expression\" and
    that \"[t]he works ... shall enjoy protection \"in all countries of the Union.\"
    \ While typefaces are not specifically included in the *examples* of protected
    works, neither are they specifically excluded.\r\n\r\nI certainly do not consider
    myself a legal expert but Leonard DuBoff is.  He been highly respected in the
    field for some 30 years and I have personally known him for more than 20 years.
    \ The suggestion that Mr. DuBoff is a \"shady lobbyist\" is without merit, as
    is calling him a \"shady lawyer.\"  While he has testified before Congress (in
    favor of the adoption of the Visual Artists Rights Act long before a weak version
    was adopted), he is not a lobbyist, nor is he shady.  (Perhaps Uli should be reminded
    that casting aspersions on one's character, especially in relationship to the
    subject's profession, is defamatory.)\r\n\r\nAs to Mr. DuBoff's \"cryptic email,\"
    I suspect that his response was no more puzzling than the correspondence he received.
    \ If he denies being TypeRight's General Counsel for the past 10 years, then he
    hasn't been.  Further, Mr. DuBoff is not responsible for the content of TypeRight's
    website (if he were, would he list an out-of-date weblink for himself)?\r\n\r\nIt
    is true that Leonard cannot see a typeface.  Further, contrary to Uli's assertion,
    he cannot read Braille.  Braille is a two-handed language and, sadly, the chemical
    explosion that robbed Leonard of his sight also took one of his hands.  The accident
    did not, however, deprive him of his fine mind and remarkable memory.  Leonard
    remembers color and form, and can describe in detail every piece of art in his
    office and home, regardless of the medium, 2-D or 3-D.  Before the accident, Leonard
    had been a Marine, an engineer and an artist.  After his recovery, he attended
    law school, graduating summa cum laude.  Leonard was one of the founders of the
    legal specialty of art law, writing the first textbook on the subject (The Desk
    Book of Art Law) more than 20 years and several related works.  He has authored
    more than 30 books on legal subjects, for lawyers, professionals and consumers.\r\n\r\nI
    do not think that Leonard is infallible (any more than I or any of you) but I
    suggest that Uli not believe everything he reads (or thinks)."
  created: '2007-12-24 03:14:46'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "@Playground_Girl - it was I who assumed that Mr. DuBoff - being a blind man
    - would probably be reading Braille, since all of my blind friends do so. I did
    not know about his hand. However, I am quite sure that he nevertheless has his
    means to \"read\" a text, using something like ViaVoice.\r\n\r\nUli simply denies
    that blind people have the capability of reading, i.e. understanding things which
    are not communicated orally, which slightly (!) infuriated me.\r\n\r\nI do not
    know Mr. DuBoff, but I principally do not like the accusation of blind people
    being \"inferior\" to people who are lucky enough to have sight."
  created: '2008-01-03 11:10:58'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "On the 1st of January, 2008, the administrator of the www.typeright.org website
    updated the \"copyright\" notice from \"1997-2007\" to \"1997-2008\" as follows:\r\n\r\n<strong>\"Copyright
    \xA91997-2008 by TypeRight. All rights reserved.\"</strong>\r\n\r\nHowever, a
    few lines above this \"copyright\" notice, the statement\r\n\r\n<strong>\"Leonard
    DuBoff, General Counsel\"</strong>\r\n\r\nwas NOT removed by the administrator
    of the TypeRight website.\r\n\r\nI think the \"Playground Girl\" is barking up
    the wrong tree:\r\n\r\nIf it were true that Leonard DuBoff has never been the
    \"General Counsel\" of this TypeRight website since 1997, why has Leonard DuBoff
    never objected to being declared as the \"General Counsel\" of this TypeRight
    website during the past 10 years (1997-2008)?\r\n\r\nWhy has Leonard DuBoff never
    sued this TypeRight website to remove this so-called \"false declaration\" during
    the past 10 years?\r\n\r\nWhy does the above \"Playground Girl\" not request the
    administrator of www.typeright.org to declare at this TypeRight website that the
    \"General Counsel: Leonard DuBoff\" declaration has always been a \"false declaration\"
    during the past 10 years?\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-03 17:49:32'
date: '2007-05-17 09:37:36'
title: Typeright - Infowrong

---
