---
author:
  name: missgiggles
  picture: 111889
body: I'm thinking Coke Cola or Guiness. What do you think and why?
comments:
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "Once again, another question with enormous scope, and vague wording.\r\n\r\nWhat
    is your definition of successful? Which Coke or Guinness campaign are you talking
    about? Do you mean to say \"What is the most valuable brand in the world?\" or
    something to that effect? If so, then Coca Cola has been number one for quite
    some time.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2007-05-18 21:28:47'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Christianity has done pretty well and Islam seems to be picking up ground.\r\n\r\nGovernments
    seem to have no problem getting their populaces to support this or that war.\r\n\r\nMere
    commercial products pale in comparison - but I guess on that level Coke is pretty
    strong -brown, sweet, carbonated water elevated to the level of icon and lifestyle
    choice\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  children:
  - author:
      name: jupiterboy
      picture: 109773
    body: "<cite>Christianity has done pretty well and Islam seems to be picking up
      ground.\r\nGovernments seem to have no problem getting their populaces to support
      this or that war.\r\nMere commercial products pale in comparison - but I guess
      on that level Coke is pretty strong -brown, sweet, carbonated water elevated
      to the level of icon and lifestyle choice\u2026\r\npeace<cite/>\r\n\r\ngod adds
      death to everything that makes living nice\r\n\r\n(slow down. chew food. spell.
      thank Ms. Fabricant.)"
    created: '2007-05-21 17:04:58'
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: "'Islam seems to be picking up ground'\r\nHmmm...that's just your personal
      view right? Everyone has a right to express their views but Islam has always
      been strong. It;s only because of 9/11 and Iraq and terrorism blamed on Muslims
      that seems to be 'picking up' well. It always has done. Well, that's what I
      think. "
    created: '2007-05-25 23:27:16'
  created: '2007-05-18 21:33:29'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: I am just generally wondering  about the whole development of a campiagn which
    still exists today. Is it true that 'Coke Cola' is the next famous word to the
    word 'hello'. What other brands do you think matches the quality of pursuasive-ness
    in advertising and has had a massive responce from the target auduience?
  created: '2007-05-18 21:47:50'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Paul, if we were allowed to rate answers - I'd give yours a 10+.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile,
    one of the most successful advertising campaigns EVER in the United States was
    for Piels beer. That's right - the beer that tastes like crap. Fortunately, good
    sense followed after everyone tasted it, and knew it was crap. (But working my
    way as a waitress in a Steak & Brew - all beer was crap to me!!! LOL) Comedians
    Bob & Ray (oh my, you are probably too young to even know about them!) were hired
    for spot announcements and commercials - in fact, I don't have to write about
    it - someone did that for on on Wikipedia -- over here: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Piels_Beer
    \ -- now that was strength in advertising...\r\n\r\nAs for campaigns that I've
    enjoyed\r\n1. Chivas Regal - a photo of a photostudio table that was empty - and
    a notice that it was too good to waste.\r\n2. Fred and Ginger in a dance pose
    - and the caption - remember when all you needed was talent.\r\n\r\nIn recent
    years - I'd say Budweiser. But I may be prejudice -- it was one of my neighbors
    who came up with that one.\r\n\r\nOr that EOS (?) car in Europe - those television
    spots are incredible. Though Bentley has been cute lately with the slogan \"For
    When Your Penis Is Just Too Small\" -- LOL\r\n\r\nIf you can get 10% of the population
    to try your product because of your campaign - then you have truly had a successful
    run."
  created: '2007-05-18 22:07:47'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "I'm not familiar with \"Coke Cola\". Is it a mixture of cocaine and soda?\r\n\r\n(I'm
    not even half serious.)"
  created: '2007-05-18 23:53:16'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Miss G, I hope it has not escaped your attention that a bottle of Coke and
    the Nazi flag <a href="http://typophile.com/node/33741">share the same colors</a>...  Coincidence
    or conspiracy?
  created: '2007-05-19 00:08:33'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Coca\u2014Cola wins, although I don\u2019t see the company as having different
    campaigns as opposed to one insane and unyielding effort to blanket the world
    in marketing. From what I\u2019ve read that company is barely able to quantify
    the success or failure of individual ads or series of ads because there is literally
    too much Coke advertising to track it all anymore. As I pointed out in one of
    your other threads, Coke advertising is the only product campaign to ever near
    the level of placement that a true propaganda campaign requires, and that\u2019s
    tough to do.\r\n\r\nAnother great series of campaigns are the ones that the (American)
    National Football League did in the 1960s and 1970s to sell advertising to businesses.
    Those turned the NFL from a scruffy underdog into an indomitable juggernaut, and
    many people are not aware that they even existed. I don\u2019t know if you can
    get access to them in the UK, but NFL Films did some great films for the NFL that
    really broke a lot of new ground in terms of sounds an cinematography. "
  created: '2007-05-19 06:04:04'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "United States of America.\r\n\r\nWhy? Unabated capitalism. Survival of the
    fittest. You know - the thing they call 'democracy'.\r\n\r\n__________\r\nHiro"
  created: '2007-05-19 06:55:30'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "While the USA may have inspired a lot of democracies around the world, the
    prevalence of parliamentary systems shows that other nations still aren\u2019t
    catching on to direct elections, so the idea clearly is not being communicated
    very well :("
  created: '2007-05-19 07:03:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, there still is hope that Democracy will be exposed\r\nas the fraud that
    it is before it infects the entire globe.\r\n\r\nAs for the original question:\r\nMy
    definition of \"successful\" is incompatible with advertising.\r\n\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/business/2276123.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-19 07:08:26'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Yes, there still is hope that Democracy will be exposed\r\nas the fraud
    that it is before it infects the entire globe.</cite>\r\n\r\nSort of like what
    happened with Marxism?"
  created: '2007-05-19 13:30:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Travel, travel, travel.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-19 15:06:42'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "DeBeers Diamonds\r\n\r\nConvinced western society that a diamond ring is
    the only way to signify marriage."
  created: '2007-05-19 15:57:59'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Christmas and Coca-Cola\u2019s part in it.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-05-19 16:44:46'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: Marxism? What's that? and as for pursuasiveness in advertising and/or propoganda,
    what would you say has had the most success? The Uncle Sam posters where tehy
    say WE WANT YOU for the war? Were they pursuasive enough to get everyone going?
    What do you think is the most famous and successful propoganda yet for pursuasiveness?
    Do you think we could name a certain aspect in history to say 'this has convinced
    teh majority of people in the world'? COuld you say  the cross has and teh architecture
    of cathedrals etc to depict superiorism and power? What's your opinions to that?
    Do you think I have a good argument to build something on that in regards to persuasion?
  created: '2007-05-19 19:43:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Is it a mixture of cocaine and soda?\r\n\r\nYes, originally. It seems that
    it still has the coca leaf in it, but no significant amount of cocaine. See the
    <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coca-Cola\">wikipedia article,</a> on the
    history of Coca Cola. It still has a lot of caffine."
  created: '2007-05-19 19:57:51'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "I've always been a fan of Bill Bernach's \"Think Small\" VW campaign.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/131803081_e4ec21dbca_6182.jpg]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-19 20:57:59'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Nobody mentioned the "United Colors" of Benetton yet? They've done some nice
    ads (& politically correct).
  created: '2007-05-20 08:26:01'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: 'Yes, very controversial and produced by Tiscani. '
  created: '2007-05-20 13:22:46'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I would say the most successful has been the various religions, who have
    persuaded people to give up their money, hormonal urges, and even their lives.\r\n\r\nBy
    in large, they rely on word-of-mouth and print (in the form of books).\r\n\r\nIt
    follows that the second most successful is the campaign by advertising agencies
    to get corporations to pay them big bucks for results that seem no better than
    chance.\r\n\r\nFWIW`"
  created: '2007-05-20 14:11:53'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "If you\u2019re looking for persuasive propaganda, look at massive campaign
    in against the Germans that led to US involvement in World War I. The government
    and the media worked most of the nation up into a fury, ready to fight against
    the Hun, who were clearly planning to destroy western civilization. Also look
    into the anti-Japanese campaigns of World War II; those did such a good job of
    convincing Americans that Japanese men were buck-toothed, violent, psychopathic
    rapists that the USA had to launch more subtle campaigns after the war to convince
    Americans that Japanese men were actually effeminate, weak, and poorly endowed.
    \r\n\r\nBut it is also important that you realize what true propaganda is and
    how it differs from advertising. Read <a href=\"http://www.amazon.co.uk/Propaganda-Jacques-Ellul/dp/0394718747/ref=sr_1_1/026-6450326-6351623?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1179669432&sr=8-1\">Propaganda:
    The Formation of Men\u2019s Minds</a> by Jacques Ellul. "
  created: '2007-05-20 14:59:36'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Everything is propaganda - even this post\u2026 :)\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-05-20 15:15:32'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Can you say. with a straight face,\r\n\r\nThis is an\r\n\r\nADVERTISING AGENCY\r\n\r\ncrossroads
    of civilization\r\n\r\nRefuge of all the arts\r\n\r\nagainst the ravages of time\r\n\r\nArmoury
    of fearless truth\r\n\r\nagainst whispering rumour\r\n\r\nIncessant trumpet of
    trade\r\n\r\n. . .\r\n\r\nI think just the last line works"
  created: '2007-05-20 16:30:49'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: James, do you mean World War II or World War I? Hmmm...
  created: '2007-05-20 17:40:39'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "MILK...\r\n\r\n...for the success in promoting it's consumption by anyone
    beyond the age of 18 months. It's bloody weird on so many levels.\r\n\r\nI'm not
    anti milk. I just don't like the stuff."
  created: '2007-05-20 19:02:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Incessant trumpet of trade</em>\r\n\r\nNo, I couldn't say that with a
    straight face (a little too histrionic), preferring JK Galbraith's \"consumer
    advertising provides...a relentless propaganda on behalf of goods in general.\"\r\n\r\nHowever,
    I would point out that advertising pays for the fourth estate, which is the best
    antidote there is to the abuse of power.\r\n\r\nAlso consider that life expectancy,
    standard of living, pollution rates, and political rights and freedoms are all
    better in societies where there is more advertising.\r\n\r\nNow if only we didn't
    live on a finite-sized planet, consumerism wouldn't be such a problem."
  created: '2007-05-20 21:21:55'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>James, do you mean World War II or World War I? Hmmm\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    was referring to campaigns that relate to each war, respectively."
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: aah ok thanks :) I'm actually looking into that but I need to look further
      into Russian Constructivm and the colours red, white and black. I see there's
      an extensive amount of those colours used in propoganda posters.
    created: '2007-05-25 23:07:08'
  created: '2007-05-20 22:42:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Also consider that life expectancy, standard of living,\r\n> pollution
    rates, and political rights and freedoms are\r\n> all better in societies where
    there is more advertising.\r\n\r\nPure bull.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-21 00:26:12'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "\"Think Different\" was not bad. \r\n\r\nBut to talk about companies - or
    brands - like Coke, or Nike, or McDonalds in terms of advertising campaigns is
    only part of the story. It's more about the branding of America. \r\n\r\nAs far
    as global influence goes... you can't leave out ExxonMobilShellGulfBPCitgo etc
    which bears a tremendous influence both on the way we live (why are cars less
    fuel efficient now than they were in the 70s) on global politics (Iraq war) and
    on the environment. But that's not so much advertising as lobbying.\r\n\r\n<cite>Marxism?
    What's that?</cite>\r\n Missgiggles I really hope that was not a serious question.
    If it was, you might acquaint yourself with wikipedia before posting something
    so thumpingly obvious."
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: OK, sorry. I looked into Marxism so yup, I know what it is now and it Wikipedia
      really reliable? I was told not :(
    created: '2007-05-25 23:09:06'
  created: '2007-05-21 00:54:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Do not blame the brainwash<strong>ed</strong>.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-21 02:02:03'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "The abduction of Christmas by friggin Santa Claus. \r\n\r\nWhy do we lie
    to our childern?\r\n\r\n_________\r\nHiro"
  created: '2007-05-21 07:51:21'
- author:
    name: lindsaydurango
    picture: 112554
  body: "Hiya. I'm a longtime admirer/reader on typophile. I wish I had first been
    compelled to post something to riff on a design discussion or with a type question,
    but I find myself writing instead because I'm concerned missgiggles is taking
    advantage of the forum.\r\n\r\nI've read a few of your questions, missgiggles,
    and I feel like you're handing over questions that you should research for yourself
    and are asking, instead, for the typophile posters to toss around. Doesn't feel
    kosher.\r\n\r\nPerhaps I'm overreacting, but I just had to say something!"
  created: '2007-05-21 15:29:41'
- author:
    name: sch2525
    picture: 112170
  body: "Lindsay,\r\n\r\nWelcome to the forums, but I think Miss Giggles is fine in
    posing this questions here. If her intent is research, then she is conducting
    a questionaire to gain the insight of others - why can't the Typophile forum be
    a source of that insight? While I agree that she can't base her entire research
    on people's resposes (and the reponses), her questions are legit and thought provoking.
    The point of a forum is to open discussion about a topic - and her topic is relevant
    to the audience.\r\n\r\nSince you've been poking around here for a while, you
    should know that most of the responses are from Typophile veterans who obviously
    have no problem answering the question at hand.\r\n\r\nIf this isn't the place
    for asking creative people a to think constructively, then what is?\r\n\r\nmissgiggles,
    my short answer is social media such as Myspace, Facebook, and YouTube. These
    companies don't do any advertising whatsoever yet have millions of hits every
    day all over the world. I don't think word-of-mouth advertising (or perhaps word-of-keyboard
    would be more appropriate) has ever been more effective.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure about
    the UK's Pop Idol, but in the US, more people vote for American Idol than in the
    US Presidential election - I'd say that would be a place to start researching
    persuasion too.\r\n\r\n-Scott"
  created: '2007-05-21 16:37:07'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>god ads death to everything that makes living nice</cite>\r\n\r\nDo
    you mean \"ads\" or \"adds\"?\r\n\r\neither way I am inclined to agree..."
  created: '2007-05-21 17:10:12'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Lindsay and Scott...Lindsay raises a good point, and Scott your response
    makes me feel like you're relatively new here as well. If you both go back and
    look at some previous posts...you'll find these points and concerns raised before.
    (I think that's as mildly as I can state that.) :)\r\n\r\n<em>Marxism? What\u2019s
    that?</em>\r\n\r\nHmmm. What are they teaching in college these days?"
  created: '2007-05-21 17:45:15'
- author:
    name: lindsaydurango
    picture: 112554
  body: "I'll better inform myself next time :)\r\n\r\nNow it's time for me to think
    about posting some designish comments one of these days."
  created: '2007-05-21 17:58:05'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Well yes, and Lex's post (first one) speaks to this point as well.\r\n\r\nIt's
    not the topic of discourse but the mode. To state it mildly.\r\n\r\n<cite>Hmmm.
    What are they teaching in college these days?</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is why I'd never
    recommend someone go to design school. To learn about history purely from the
    standpoint of whether logos use the same colors, rather than the other way 'round...?
    Makes no sense to me at all. You need context. But I've said this before."
  created: '2007-05-21 18:05:32'
- author:
    name: andrewkerrb
    picture: 112552
  body: "\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5i3UDDDsGM0\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zxkcjUdunb4\r\n\r\nirn
    bru gives you strength!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-21 23:04:05'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>I find myself writing instead because I\u2019m concerned missgiggles
    is taking advantage of the forum</em>\r\n\r\nI'm with Lindsay -- and like Biddy
    says, it's not the first time this issue has been raised."
  created: '2007-05-21 23:33:51'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I find myself writing instead because I\u2019m concerned missgiggles
    is taking advantage of the forum</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m siding with Miss Giggles.
    All she has done is ask for advice and opinion, neither of which will get one
    very far when it comes to serious academic research. Unless she happens to attend
    some new sort of school where students can pass of a bunch of forum posts as serious
    academic research (then again, I quoted Erik Spiekermann\u2019s posts in a paper,
    but it was alongside about a dozen published works.) I think that the vast majority
    of her thesis work will be done outside of the Typophile forms. "
  created: '2007-05-21 23:53:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm always amazed at what people get angry at.\r\n\r\nShe's simply being
    a student. And nobody is forced to help her.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-22 00:31:48'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Exactly. If you don''t want to contribute you don''t have to contribute.
    There are hundreds of threads in the archives which were read by many and commented
    on by no one. '
  created: '2007-05-22 00:33:14'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: If this is student work and our words used whole cloth, I hope these pearls
    are cited/attributed, not just borrowed. Ideas are free, statements not. Of course,
    if this is for a commercial project, that would be a forlorn hope.
  created: '2007-05-22 01:05:43'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: <em>Dream on...</em>
  created: '2007-05-22 04:51:08'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "I've noted missgiggles posts only during periods when classes are in session.
    I suspect we are doing the assignments for her.\r\n\r\nAt any rate, one of the
    most shrewdest, minimalistic, and financially successful of advertising campaigns
    I have seen in recent years was when Microsoft took out a full page ad in various
    magazines announcing amnesty to the estimated one million \"unregistered\" users
    of Word. No questions asked, just send in the attached registration form. A couple
    of months later MS offered the upgrade to the newly released Word 6 at $100 a
    pop. Sweet.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2007-05-22 17:56:41'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Dang, I wish I'd seen that promo - I'm still in the ranks of the unregistered.\r\n\r\nMy
    last word on the subject (I swear). I have no objection to missgiggles - or anyone
    - picking our collective brain. What bothers me is (1) the laziness of her posts.
    They are totally discombobulated both grammatically/linguistically and in terms
    of content, and often contain questions that could be easily answered by a simple
    google or wikipedia search; and (2) her inability to respond to constructive criticism
    - either about her ideas or her writing. Granted there has been some unnecessary
    flaming, but as I have said before, if she is to expect the kind of thoughtful,
    reasoned responses she usually gets here, it seems to me she could provide the
    same courtesy - thoughtful, reasoned queries. I suspect that the collective irritation
    on the forum has less to do with her \"inquiring mind\" than with her attitude."
  created: '2007-05-22 20:00:47'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "It's what motivates you to buy something you didn't know you wanted, after
    which you wonder why you'll ever use it. \r\n\r\nSomething about ice to eskimos
    . . ."
  created: '2007-05-23 12:33:33'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: I rather imagine missgiggles comes here to get giggles, not homework. Something
    like "Dear Abbe" use to accuse the Yale students of . . .
  created: '2007-05-23 22:55:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>The Uncle Sam posters where they say WE WANT YOU for the war? Were they
    pursuasive enough to get everyone going?</em>\r\n\r\nThis image and slogan, and
    others like it, were copied from this <a href=\"http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/2/2a/Kitchener-Britons.jpg\">British
    original</a>, depicting Lord Kitchener, then head of the British armed forces.
    The Uncle Sam version is graphically more sophisticated, particularly in its use
    of colour, but I think ultimately less powerful for using an imaginary representation
    of the nation rather than a real man (with a real moustache!).\r\n\r\nNo, these
    posters were not persuasive enough to get everyone going. Both countries had to
    introduce conscription."
  created: '2007-05-25 20:35:39'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Strange how the original can sometimes dissapear in obscurity & be exceeded
    in its fame by a blatent copy. I have never seen the British one & I didn't know
    Uncle Sam was just a rip-off.
  created: '2007-05-25 20:46:11'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Two famous British posters preceeded the \"Uncle Sam Wants You\" version.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/British_kitchener_5923.jpg]\r\nThe
    <a href=\"http://www.bbc.co.uk/history/historic_figures/kitchener_lord_horatio.shtml\"
    target=\"new\">Lord Kitchener poster</a> above is probably the most famous poster
    of World War 1 and possibly the second most famous poster of all time after the
    \"Uncle Sam wants you\" poster for which this was the inspiration.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/British_WW2_poster1_5647.jpg]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: Thanks for that Norbet. I have never seen the Briton one before. See, we
      learn new things everyday and my time on Typophile is making me into a typo/design
      geek! :D It's good! haha!
    created: '2007-05-25 23:23:50'
  created: '2007-05-25 23:07:09'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: 'Right, right right...I have had enough of critisisms. As if my whole dissertation
    is going to ocme out of answers from Typophile. I just like to know what people
    think and feel is the best advertising campaign ever. That''s all. I''m just looking
    to see what kind of advertising is valued by you guys. What''s wrong with that
    and previous questions...well, well, well not as if I have asked you to do my
    dissertation for me have I? I addressed you with my whole dissertation plan and
    asked opinions on what people thought and if they would add anything to my endless
    list. About the Mickey mouse and swastika: Well, atleast it got a majority of
    people looking at something that seems totally opposite yet they are so close
    in relation in a wierd way so am I really that bad? Why do people on here think
    it''s OK to bully some student just beacuse they may be at the height of their
    career, does not mean to say they have the right to bully someone lower than them
    in that field. What do you want me to say? SORRY I AM A STUDENT?!?! *rolling eyes*.'
  created: '2007-05-25 23:20:18'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Your welcomed.\r\nErrrrrr... that's <em>Norbert</em> BTW ;^)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: ooops Norbert with an R :D
    created: '2007-05-27 13:35:46'
  created: '2007-05-25 23:26:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I clearly remember reading a seminal report in the 90s that Islam was the
    fastest growing religion. I wouldn't be surprised if that triggered a massive
    covert mobilization against Islam among those of opposing faiths, and that in
    fact is what's causing all the trouble lately. Well, that and the Capitalist obsession
    with enslaving/consuming the world.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-25 23:35:47'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>and that in fact is what\u2019s causing all the trouble lately. Well,
    that and the Capitalist obsession with enslaving/consuming the world.</cite>\r\n\r\nHrant,
    has it ever occurred to you to seek treatment for paranoid schizophrenia?"
  created: '2007-05-26 00:12:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Travel, travel, travel.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-26 00:26:16'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: 'If you''ve been mixing Coca-Cola and Guiness, no wonder you''ve lost your
    giggles. I still think you''re having us on '
  created: '2007-05-26 02:32:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What was that drink I had in Leipzig, that mixes coke and beer?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-26 03:49:31'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: Broke
  created: '2007-05-26 07:22:41'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Mormonism is the fastest growing religion, or so I hear. Having a lot of kids
    and prosletyzing seems more effective than ad campaigns when it comes to faith.
  created: '2007-05-26 08:08:07'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Mormon ad campaigns are pretty strong. They advertise on TV all the time.
    I just stopped at a historical site in Utah that had a \"free\" tour and it turned
    out that the site was owned by the LDS church and the tour was led by a Mormon
    missionary who was very careful not to be blatant but was just waiting for an
    opening to do his \"thing\". It was actually very interesting.\r\n\r\nCoke and
    beer is popular in Sardinia. Don't remember the name of the drink though\u2026\r\n\r\nMsGiggles
    - Your statement where you quote me about Islam is a form of unjust persecution.
    I said nothing negative about Islam. I just believe at this time it is probably
    the fastest growing religion in the world.\r\n\r\nIf you don't want to get persecuted
    unjustly then desist from that activity.\r\n\r\nBTW - I am on your side - you
    can ask any question you want in any form you want and I have absolutely no problem
    with it. I hope the same is true for my answers to your questions. Of course there
    are limits\u2026\r\n\r\nI don't believe it organized (Hrant might think otherwise)
    but the snowball effect of the campaign for capitalism has no equal, ever.\r\n\r\nI
    hope you're not a fan of ad campaigns MsGiggles because makng people think they
    need something that's unnecessary is a real tragedy.\r\n\r\nNow on to the next
    campaign\u2026 :)\r\n\r\npeas"
  created: '2007-05-26 10:22:01'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "> ... the second most famous poster of all time after the \u201CUncle Sam
    wants you\u201D poster\r\nThanks for filling a huge gap in my culture, Norbert.
    I was completely unaware of these campaigns & have always considered similar things
    to be a copy of the Uncle Sam version (which they might actually be if I'm not
    the only one who was unaware of the British versions)."
  created: '2007-05-26 11:10:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I don\u2019t believe it organized\r\n\r\nNot organized in the conventional
    sense, certainly. The thing is, when the\r\nshared objective is so straight-forward,
    you don't really need meetings.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-26 15:46:08'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "So the Great Golden Greed Illuminati is a myth? Maybe George Lucas should
    make a movie\u2026 :)\r\n\r\nTrue nomads couldn't accumulate that much - they
    moved too often - and the chiefs depended on their tribesmen a lot more directly
    than agrarian societies. Of course there was always Genghis Khan\u2026\r\n\r\nMetaphorically
    it is the story of Abel and Cain - the shepherd and the farmer.\r\n\r\npeas &
    carrots"
  created: '2007-05-26 17:17:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Indeed: Society = Injustice\r\nBut this is what we are.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-26 17:21:34'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: "ooops Norbert with an R :D\r\n\r\nAbout being a fan of advertising campaigns,
    well...i'm not a fan of lying and making people buy certain items they don't need
    but my tutor says I am good at advertising so erm...I don't like pursuading people
    but what am I meant to do when I'm good at something I don't really know if I
    should be doing :O uh huh? What do you guys/women think? Not as if I'm literally
    putting items in their trolleys haha! OMG! Now you have mentioned it Paul, I'm
    starting to feel guilty!"
  created: '2007-05-27 13:43:51'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Dangerous Gasses indeed!
  created: '2007-05-27 14:11:30'
- author:
    name: BrooklynRob
    picture: 110975
  body: "My vote for the most successful *PR* campaign is Scientology. They have some
    of the world's highest-profile celebrity endorsers, whom the Scientolgists not
    only are not paying, the Scientologists are actually being paid by the spokespeople.
    Talk about an advertising dream deal.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-27 17:22:37'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "> Now you have mentioned it Paul, I\u2019m starting to feel guilty!\r\n\r\nI'm
    in advertising and don't feel guilty about it - but I also know that it is nothing
    more than propaganda. I am not deluded about the machine I work for and it's ethics.\r\n\r\nYet
    - I'm lucky that I get to do something creative for a living in this society that
    I have never quite felt a part of.\r\n\r\nAll lives are compromised - I was reminded
    of this recently when a friend of mine had a \"break\". His subconscious came
    bubbling forth without constraints from the social contract. It was a very confusing
    thing for him and I believe he will learn something valuable from it.\r\n\r\npiece"
  created: '2007-05-27 19:10:38'
- author:
    name: 4of5
  body: "\"Why do people on here think it\u2019s OK to bully some student just beacuse
    they may be at the height of their career, does not mean to say they have the
    right to bully someone lower than them in that field. What do you want me to say?
    SORRY I AM A STUDENT?!?! *rolling eyes*.\"\r\n\r\ndear, i'm probably old enough
    to be your gran.\r\n\r\nyou might find it useful to show some respect.  if you
    ever want to get a job, you might want to think of this place as somewhere that
    you might find someone who would hire you.\r\n\r\ni've looked at some of your
    postings and if you ever applied for a job with our company, i wouldn't pay you
    to clean the loo. you are very rude.\r\n\r\nwhy are you want to tell people they
    are stupid when they are trying to help you? i don't understand this. when i was
    your age, i was polite, and you do not seem to know that sometimes when you are
    starting out, you need to say 'please' and 'thank you' to people who share what
    they know.\r\n\r\ni haven't seen you do this. all you do is tell people they are
    mean. they are quite polite until you tell them they are useless. you may not
    have noticed but they are also starting to make fun of you. when people start
    to make fun of you, it is because they are not taking you seriously. \r\n\r\nyou
    might want to reconsider why you are doing this.\r\n\r\nmy grandkids tell me that
    the standards we had here in england are not what they used to be. from seeing
    what you write, they may be correct.\r\n\r\ni am old, and it is late here.  but
    i would like to think that young people can still do what is right."
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: Sorry Edna if you feel that way? Does anyone on here say thank you though?
      I haven't seen many people use their P's and Q's eitehr mind you so erm...is
      it only apparent because I may be the youngest on Typophile or am I really that
      rude? What about everyone else who are older? Arn't they meant to be role models
      to someone young like me. I don't want to go on any further beacuse it isn't
      worth it. Sorry Edna and I am grateful for everyone's comments and answers.
      I very much appreciate it. Thank you.
    created: '2007-05-28 15:36:15'
  created: '2007-05-28 02:59:46'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Try viewing miss giggles as a 25-year old, cigar-smoking man just having fun
    by seeing what you'll say in response to outrageous or provocative statements.
    I could be wrong, but that's the only interpretation I can make to fit what goes
    on in these posts -- or the (her?) icon.
  created: '2007-05-28 03:11:49'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: 'About all the accusations addressed to Miss Giggles, I can only quote someone
    else in this thread by making it clear none of us are obligated to respond to
    her questions. I''ll just leave you all with one question: has it ever occured
    to anyone Miss Giggles might not be the lazy student a lot of people here seem
    to think, but merely a devoted student who is only trying to open her mind to
    other people''s opinions? Since when is devotion & being eager to learn a crime?
    It''s a matter of giving someone the benifit of the doubt. People may accuse her
    of being rude, but I''ve seen Miss Giggles pop up in many threads now & I was
    never under the impression she was lazy or rude. And even if she would be, that
    just might be a simple case of action/reaction. I like her threads & I have seen
    a lot of similar questions posted on Typophile by non-students. Don''t use her
    position against her, we all started at the bottom & I can only encourage her
    to keep taking part in discussion & posting new threads. I see this as a passion
    for the subject & an interest in her fellow Typophilers. If anything, I''m flattered
    to see someone validates my opinion.'
  created: '2007-05-29 08:03:21'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 'There are plenty of students who frequent this forum and I don''t think anybody
    here would discourage them from asking questions. To suggest that is the case
    is insulting, unnecessary, and untrue. '
  created: '2007-05-29 09:51:23'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Pattyfab, I'm not sure if your comment is directed at me, but in case it is
    reread this thread & you'll see there have been quite a number of accusations
    made against Miss Giggles. If your comment was not a response to my post, just
    ignore this one ;-)
  created: '2007-05-29 11:18:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Patricia, no White House Press Conference lingo, please.\r\n\r\nAs a teacher,
    I think that anything, anything at all, is better\r\nthan a Silent Student, which
    sadly is the norm in our society.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-29 14:07:38'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Ill Sans, yes, my comment was directed at yours. I'm not stooping to a flame
    war - I've had enough of the two of you on the enfant terrible thread. I just
    didn't like the implication that this forum is hostile to students. Yes, there
    have been (in your words) accusations against giggles, but it has nothing to do
    with her being a student. I would never want to discourage inquiry - and hope
    I speak for others in saying that. But students need to know how to learn as well
    as to ask questions.\r\n\r\nI think you and Hrant ought to get out more."
  created: '2007-05-29 15:52:14'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Pattyfab, the accusations some people made here were literally indicating
    that Miss Giggles (ab)used the forum to get her assignments done. All I did was
    stand up for her & if you read this page alone, you'll clearly notice I'm not
    the one who's hostile here.
  created: '2007-05-29 16:20:42'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I\u2019m not anti milk. I just don\u2019t like the stuff.</em>\r\n\r\nhave
    you never had ice cream or gelato?"
  created: '2007-05-29 16:46:50'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: Please can we not start World War 3. If people do not like my threads or my
    manners or my attitude or personality or  the way I may portray myself on Typophile,
    then that is perfectly fine by me. You don't have to talk to me or post on my
    threads or even glance at my threads but you do so thank you ever so much :) I
    kindly appreciate everyone's opinions, ideas and views. It's only when people
    go too far as to, in one post make me feel as though I was responsible for someone's
    poor dog passing away. Now, that is way beyond preportion. So is that acceptable?
    No! Then I just have to defend myself and backfire when necessary. Other than
    that, i don't really understand what i do wrong and if I have done wrong in the
    past, then I ask for forgiveness and I am sorry but for the times when it wasn't
    even my fault, i'm not going to say sorry because I haven't done anything wrong
    and don't need to feel guilty about anything I havn't even done! :)
  created: '2007-05-29 20:51:08'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Well put, MissGiggles!
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: Thanks for the support Ill Sans. I actually feel ill when people treat  me
      like that. it puts me off and made me cry once but nevermind. I'm not really
      the person people think I am behind here but nevermind. We meet all kinds of
      people in our lives. We just have to adapt I guess sometimes or just ignore
      which is actually really really hard :)
    created: '2007-05-29 23:50:44'
  created: '2007-05-29 21:06:48'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "You're welcome, MissGiggles. I didn't want to make any comment on this at
    first (as you can read from Pattyfab's post I'm already entangled in a web of
    misinterpretations & (false*) accusations in another thread), but I just couldn't
    take the injustice anymore & at one point I actually felt ill in your place as
    well. But like you said, you meet all kinds of people in your life.\r\nMy advice
    is to try and see all this as a learning school as well, that might help you to
    deal better with it & -I don't want to scare you off now ;-) - prepare you for
    similar misinterpretations you'll often have to deal with in graphic design. Sure,
    a picture can say more than a thousand words, but the more words it says the more
    room it leaves for misinterpretation... Every explanation is an open invitation
    to misinterpretation. Just stand your ground & absorb the comments that you find
    appropriate & helpful.\r\nBTW: I really enjoy your threads which are usually just
    about personal taste/interpretations. It's nice to see what other people can come
    up with & you can learn a lot from those replies (the Uncle Sam poster is a great
    example). It's also nice as a reminder; you often \"forget\" things and when someone
    else posts it here it can bring back nice memories.\r\nKeep up the good work &
    good luck with your studies!\r\n\r\n*some people will surely disagree with this
    word hence the use of parens"
  created: '2007-05-30 08:12:41'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "One of the most valuable - and painful - lessons I learned as a student was
    that if you are hearing the same comments/criticisms over and over again, perhaps
    it is worth paying attention to them, rather than assuming everyone else is wrong
    and/or out to get you.\r\n\r\nI agree you can learn about more than just type
    on this forum."
  created: '2007-05-30 11:32:57'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Pattyfab, your last post wouln't be completely out of place in a different
    thread (you know which one I mean).
  created: '2007-05-30 11:44:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you are hearing the same comments/criticisms over and over again\r\n\r\nBut
    she's also hearing the opposite over and over again.\r\nSo maybe it's a reflection
    not on her, but on us.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 14:58:43'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "MissGiggles - I can relate! Especially about the \"World war 3\" comment.
    :-) And I've also felt bullied to the point of feeling truly sad, particularly
    since this was supposed to be a fun, positive thing. I don't think people intentionally
    decides to join a forum just to create a negative and aggressive situation. I
    assume most of us do it because we want to be inspired, learn things and/or get
    some help, often in an area where we have little or no expertis.\r\nAnd naturally
    one should show gratitude to every single person who has taken the energy and
    time to share his/hers opinion and/or advice. But speaking from my own experience
    with the whole enfant terrible mess, I feel that it hasn't been okay  to say \"thank
    you but no thank you\" when an idea has been presented to me that I didn't like.
    Just because I don't feel something is right for me doesn't take anything away
    from that person's creativity or intelligence. Some suggestions to my particular
    problem have been absolutely brilliant and I could see them working perfectly
    in a different context, but not in mine.  \r\n\r\nA lot of people in this forum
    say \"if you put yourself out there and start a thread and ask for advice, you'd
    better be prepared to get criticized and get some harsh comments\". But what about
    the other way around? If people share their idea/advice/opinion with the person
    who started the thread, shouldn't they be as prepared for criticism or rejection?
    And shouldn't they be able to take it without getting irritated or angry?\r\n\r\n>...if
    you are hearing the same comments/criticisms over and over again, perhaps it is
    worth paying attention to them, rather than assuming everyone else is wrong and/or
    out to get you.\r\n\r\nIn general I totally agree with Pattyfab, don't know enough
    about MissGiggles to say that it applies on her, but in this thread I don't think
    she has behaved badly at all. But I do think this is mostly true when it comes
    to how people behave, not necessarily about their opinions. \r\n\r\n> your last
    post wouln\u2019t be completely out of place in a different thread (you know which
    one I mean).\r\n\r\nI assume that you're talking about me and my thread, if you're
    not, I apologize.  :-)  But Tom, if you're talking about my thread, can't you
    see that you have a little bit of a double standard here? Apparently MissGiggles
    have gotten a lot of critic so how come Pattyfab's comment doesn't apply to MissGiggles
    but to me? Shouldn't she be able \"to do the math\" like I've been told? In all
    fairness, what's the difference?\r\n\r\nCharlotta\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 15:45:17'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "I've learned my lesson to limit my replies to \"MissGiggles\" topics.\r\n\r\nNow,
    if the topic interests me, or if I have something useful to add, I will generally
    post an \"informational\" reply with reference links and/or visual examples. It's
    up to all readers to take it from there.\r\n\r\nWhenever I had posted an \"opinion\"
    or displayed a little humor, things went sour real fast."
  created: '2007-05-30 16:10:23'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Charlotta, the difference is that your idea of what an enfant terrible is
    has clouded your ability to do the math. It was pretty clear from the beginning
    you had no intentions of taking any given advice into account (you've clearly
    stated so yourself that it was your interpretation that mattered and none of us
    could make you change your mind about that). The math problem in your thread was
    not about anything personal (as it is here), but trying to make you see that it
    didn't matter what you -or any other single  person for that matter- thought of
    an enfant terrible, but it is (or at least should be if you want to be an entrepreneur)
    about what your potential customers think of it. I simply said that -if the Typophile
    board is at all a little representive for society- you should've made the conclusion
    from your own comment that the majority linked it to things you didn't find appropriate
    for your jewelry that maybe enfant terrible might not be the best chosen name
    for your jewelry line.\r\nThe difference is that Miss Giggles has not commented
    in a negative way about the replies she got from people who were also only trying
    to help her.\r\nThe difference is that Miss Giggles seems to have (I don't want
    to make any more assumptions here) an open mind which sadly could not be said
    from you. In all your raving about being independent you conveniently forgot that
    1. you asked for our opinions, but didn't take any of them into account since
    you were determined about your ideas from the start (which makes one wonder why
    you reached out for help) because you \"are\" an enfant terrible & independent
    & 2. after over 200 replies & repeatedly having said you are new to all this,
    you dismiss all advice as unsuitable ideas, but the fact that there's a major
    difference between advice & ideas never accured to you.\r\nAbout the double standard,
    I think that only apllies to Pattyfab here. She accused me of making untrue accusations
    when -again- I was merely being analytical & observative. Too bad she lacks Lore's
    \"sense of humour\" or maybe she could see the irony in all this.\r\nSorry MissGiggles
    that even here the enfant terrible mess got the better of some of us, but I think
    no one can accuse me of throwing the first stone this time."
  created: '2007-05-30 16:37:12'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "> an open mind which sadly could not be said from you...\r\n\r\nThat's interesting
    how you can defend a person who feels like she's been bullied and in the same
    thread you're being a bully to someone else. Be respectful enough to reply to
    a respectful message in the same manner. At least. And as for the rest. You still
    don't have a clue what you're talking about. I'd written you a very long email
    filled with apologies and explanations so that you would understand me better
    and we could be friends. Now I am glad you didn't receive it. Especially since
    you've been nice to me the last couple of days and then you write a comment like
    that about me in another thread? That's pretty  much stabbing me in the back.
    Maybe you should be a bit more careful about what you criticize Lore for.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 19:16:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Get this through your head: nobody cares enough to stab you in the back!\r\nGo
    ruin your own thread.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 19:23:03'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Charlotta, for my reply, go back to your thread (*). At least that way you
    won't accuse me again of stabbing you in the back & we don't have to ruin MissGiggles'
    thread anymore.
  created: '2007-05-30 20:46:50'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "That message wasn't for you and it was not in your place to make a comment.
    But as usual you impose yourself and give your unsolicited comments or insults
    left and right. You've made quite a name for yourself around here. As a bully.
    Are you proud of that? Does that make you feel good? Was it your ambition in life
    to grow up to be a jerk? My guess is that you probably were the person who were
    bullied and now you take it out on innocent people. I've said it before - it is
    not possible - in any conceivable way - that a happy, harmonious and self-secure
    person would behave like you do. \r\n\r\nAnd I think you are absolutely right
    - I don't think anyone cares about me in this forum, but do you know what? I luckily
    have people who care about me in real life and isn't that what really matters.
    The question is, do you? \r\n\r\nTravel, travel, travel. But make the journey
    inside yourself and see if you can't find a shred of common decency and kindness
    somewhere. And grow a back bone, for crying out loud. If you're going to continue
    to harrass people and be mean and insulting at least have the balls to show your
    face or your name or where you're coming from. "
  created: '2007-05-30 21:51:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Charlotta, please just go make some jewelry.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 22:08:21'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Charlotta, your last reply seems a lot like what you would call "psycho babble"...
  created: '2007-05-30 22:27:01'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 'Oh for crap''s sake, can the three of you please stick to your own thread?
    Or better yet, just email each other? This is getting really tiresome... '
  created: '2007-05-30 22:56:54'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: "ENOUGH IS ENOUGH!!! I HAVE HAD ENOUGH OF EVERYTHING ON HERE! I HAVE DEPRESSION
    AND I CAN'T BELIEVE THAT A WEBSITE WHICH IS MEANT TO BE EDUCATIONAL AND PROFESSIONAL
    HAS TURNED SO SOUR, SO NASTY AND SO HORRIBLE! I just don't know waht to say. This
    is causing me and has caused me in the past in my other threads too much distress.
    Sorry for the capitalisation but that is how I feel. Sorry for everything (even
    though it isn't me!) and sorry for even joining Typophile. Thank you Ill Sans
    :) I love you for sticking up for me and thank you to all who have supported me.
    I wish I could get away from this site but my love for type and design will not
    allow me but I really have had enough. As adults, we should know what is right
    and what is wrong. I am goign to ignore the *swear word* people on here who think
    they can ruin everyone's lives. Well, FCUK you! Enough said, thank you :)\r\nps
    sorry for the bad language. Just shows, I have never sworn in my life and you
    can imagine how much this has driven me to the end of my tether to swear. Now
    are you going to complain about that too now eh? Well go ahead or FCUK yourself! "
  created: '2007-05-30 23:56:50'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "When I was a kid, I really liked caramel apples (I love the autumn...) but
    I don't seem to care for them as much these days. Tastes change? I suppose.\r\nWhat
    I really enjoy THESE days is fishing. Anyone here like fishing?"
  created: '2007-05-31 02:49:43'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I like cooking and eating them, and my sweetie is pretty serious at fly-fishing
    -- I'm starting to get into tying flies, which is a wonderfully challenging hobby.\r\n\r\nEveryone
    needs a hobby where they can get out into the wilderness."
  created: '2007-05-31 03:03:06'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "i tie them, myself. an incredibly cleansing pasttime (does pasttime have
    two 't's?)\r\n\r\ndry flies, are, of course, the high-art, but i also enjoy wet
    flies and nymphs.\r\n\r\nread any good books lately?"
  created: '2007-05-31 03:20:32'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I'm reading Brookland which I highly recommend. It's set in 18th century
    Brooklyn.\r\n\r\nOn a totally other note, I saw a brand of yogurt in France called
    \"Bulky\" and got a laugh."
  created: '2007-05-31 03:23:18'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: Bulky!
  created: '2007-05-31 03:25:42'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Tying flies is a lot of fun, isn't it?  I need more practice ending them
    off -- I've got a really nice, small whipping tool, but not much style. hahaha\r\n\r\nAbout
    the only thing I've read lately is \"Flickr Hacks\" since I'm trying to do more
    with my page, which is really pretty sad.  I guess it would help if I was better
    at taking pictures.\r\n\r\nPatty: I don't think you can find Bles-Wold outside
    of southern Alberta, but it makes the most wonderful addition to curries.  \r\n\r\nAnd
    if you drain it for awhile, it's just the best thing to put on bagels."
  created: '2007-05-31 03:30:54'
date: '2007-05-18 21:10:09'
node_type: forum
title: What do you think is the most successful advertising campaign, past or present,
  and why?

---
