---
author:
  name: drduckling
body: "Hi everyone,\r\n\r\nAnother freelance Graphic Designer & I have decided to
  associate,\r\nand here is the logotype we've vcreated for our collaborative work.\r\n\"fluonoir\"
  means \"fluorescentblack\" in French.\r\nPlease feel free to criticize it (pros
  and cons).\r\n\r\nThx a lot. Virginie\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fluonoir_4321.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Well, I for one like it a lot, both the name & the logo although I would suggest
    sharp edges for the lightning. Otherwise it's very pleasing to the eye.
  created: '2007-05-19 15:26:02'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: I like the type.
  created: '2007-05-19 15:44:35'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "I agree with you ill sans, I think the lightening edges should be a little
    sharper (though not absolutely sharp, just less round...).\r\nAnyway, thank you
    both for ur comments. Any others ?"
  created: '2007-05-19 16:09:56'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Hmmmm, it's not bad but...\r\n\r\nI think it's conceptually problematic because
    there is no such such thing as fluorescent black as the logo so clearly shows
    in all its normal black and dirty mustardness.\r\n\r\nFluorescent Black as a name
    feels like you're trying to hard to be clever in some post modern kind of way.\r\n\r\nI
    sort of get it, but just how is a lightning cloud symbolic of fluorescent black?\r\n\r\nThe
    cloud could be better. The left bulge feels too big and some curves just look
    like parts of circles. The bottom curve eats into the lightning's space.\r\n\r\nThe
    lightining is dwarfed by the cloud, looks cramped and might be better if the middle
    'stroke' didn't have 2 angles. At small sizes the lightning may get lost and the
    whole logo could look more like a cartoon speech/thought bubble.\r\n\r\nI like
    the font, but I would join the first 'o' to the 'n'. The f is a bit lost and maybe
    more could be done with the fl ligature. Maybe the terminals of the f and r could
    end more sharply to echo the lightning.\r\n\r\nSorry. I'm feeling rather picky
    today."
  created: '2007-05-19 17:40:18'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: 'Let me tell you a little bit more about the name and the logotype : we chose
    "black" as it''s the result of CMY(K) for print and RGB for screen as we''re print
    & web Graphic Designers... The "fluo" thing was kind of a joke since (obviously)
    fluorescent black doesn''t exist, it underlines the "true nature" of our professional
    activity which is creativity / inventivity. which brings us to the cloud and lightening
    that clearly evoks that (intense) creative process (cloud = imagination - lightening
    = idea). Pretty simple, ain''t it?... At least, not as pretentious as you seem
    to think it is. : P'
  created: '2007-05-20 11:28:38'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "Here is the CMYK variation of the logotype with a sharper lightening.\r\n(Jon
    can you post those files you mentionned in your e-mail?)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CMYK_6506.jpg]"
  created: '2007-05-20 13:18:11'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Here's an image to show some of what I suggested above...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FluonoirLogos_5663.jpg]\r\nI'm
    not sure if the colour spectrum effects are cheesey, over the top or just crap,
    but it does kind of validate the Fluonoir name in a way.\r\n\r\nI don't think
    the name is pretentious. I just wasn't too sure about the nonsensical juxtapostion.\r\n\r\nI
    like the concept of the lightning cloud representing creativity. It makes sense
    in a nicely poetic way.\r\n\r\nBTW In the Chinese I Ching one of the 8 trigrams
    is Zh\xE8n/Ch\xEAn, which is thunder (that obviously comes from a lightning cloud)
    for symbolising the arousing, movement, activity, shock and growth. Which is good
    :)\r\n\r\nBTBTW In my ridiculous youth I got a lightning cloud tattoo :/\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-20 18:18:11'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "You know what? I actually kinda like what you did!!!\r\nI think it needs
    to be \"improved\" but I like the flat bottom of the cloud I also like (contre
    toute attente) the lightening in the prolongation of the \"n\" and I like the
    spectrum I think it has some kind of 80's vibe."
  created: '2007-05-20 20:20:54'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Thank God, I got a dingbat tattoo instead of a lightning cloud ;-)\r\nThe
    flat bottom of the cloud and the extension of the \"n\" in the lightning are good
    improvements, but I liked the first colour best (I assume it was a yellow/black
    gradient), somehow that's how I picture fluorescent black..."
  created: '2007-05-20 20:29:07'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "My own tattoo is quite hard to explain...\r\nit's half a pear half a cello
    and it has \"dharma\" written in Sanskrit in it's \"belly\"..."
  created: '2007-05-20 20:44:23'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "With all my efforts, I can't imagine what that would look like, but maybe
    that's just the alcohol effecting my brains ;-)\r\nI just have the capital \"H\"
    from Nat Vignette tattooed on  my lower back & a nice little dragon on my lower
    left wrist.\r\nThere's this guy, Raoul Wassenaar, who actually had the name Helvetica
    tattooed on his lower right arm... Damn, I wish I had thought of that first! Very
    Rock & Roll in a designer kind of way!"
  created: '2007-05-20 20:54:29'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "Absolutely!\r\nMine's on the inside of my lower right arm...\r\nI suggest
    you guys post pictures of yours, I'm gonna try take a picture of mine and post
    it here too... (I wanna see the lower back one especially, hehehe)"
  created: '2007-05-20 21:18:28'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Too bad for you I haven't got a digital camera then. Anyway, it looks like
    this: http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/paratype/nat-vignette/one/mac-t1/213930/character/0048/CP4/1/
    but in green. The dragon is in green too.\r\nIsn't this supposed to be a thread
    about your logo BTW? ;-p\r\nJust out of curiousity: what have you got tattooed
    on your lower right arm? The Helvetica tattoo is really cool, maybe you can see
    it if you google for Raoul Wassenaar..."
  created: '2007-05-20 21:37:34'
- author:
    name: leapingazelle
    picture: 112541
  body: "I like the shape BUT I have no idea what it represents. What is fluorescent
    black anyway and how does that relate to a lightning bolt from a cloud. What are
    you representing? I think giving that information should be valid.\r\nI hate gradients
    and color spectrums. Why are you doing it? Is there a need for it? Why make it
    so glowy? Out of all of them I prefer the solid black with the white type.\r\nI'd
    try a lot more typefaces. Why are you sticking to just that?\r\nWhy are you not
    exploring more concepts instead of just sticking with the one you chose?\r\nI
    think you should push yourself a lot further before deciding on a logo mark.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-20 23:28:04'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "<em>You know what? I actually kinda like what you did!!!</em>\r\n\r\nGee
    thanx. No need to sound so surprised ;P\r\n\r\nWhat does \"contre toute attente\"
    mean?\r\n\r\n<em>I like the spectrum I think it has some kind of 80\u2019s vibe</em>\r\n\r\nI
    think the spectrum colour effect has that French retro dance/funk/disco culture
    vibe. It made me think of this...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.dailymotion.com/video/x1upou_justice-dance\r\n\r\nHow
    cool is that? Sure is some groovy type in the video too.\r\n\r\nMaybe you could
    try a version of the logo where you loosen it up in a hand drawn funky/graffiti
    style inspired by some of the stuff in the video. It might give a feeling of spontaneous
    creative thought better than the clean cut italic font and precise geometry you
    have now.\r\n\r\nIf you stick with your rounded terminals on the f and r maybe
    you could work it so they are positioned at the centre of their respective cloud
    curve circles.\r\n\r\nI look forward to seeing it \u201Cimproved\u201D as you
    put it ;)\r\n\r\n<em>I suggest you guys post pictures of your (tattoo)</em>\r\n\r\nSorry,
    my tattoo is only available for private viewings. It's on my penis.\r\n\r\n<em>My
    own tattoo... ...has \u201Cdharma\u201D written in Sanskrit</em>\r\n\r\nJust out
    of curiosity, in just a few words, what does the word dharma mean to you?"
  created: '2007-05-20 23:43:52'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Leapingazelle, you really should read the whole thread before commenting
    and not make so many assumptions.\r\n\r\nBTW you're out of touch. Spectrums are
    back in dude."
  created: '2007-05-20 23:52:21'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: I had to look up the word "dharma", it didn't mean anything to me.
  created: '2007-05-21 12:10:28'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: I had to look up the word "dharma", it didn't mean anything to me.
  created: '2007-05-21 12:10:28'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Pretty simple, ain\u2019t it?\u2026 At least, not as pretentious as you
    seem to think it is.\"\r\n\r\nWell, I thought the explanation was a tad pretentious.
    ;o)\r\n\r\nNothing wrong with the cloud and lightning and a slightly goofy name,
    though. They work together well...just don't expect clients to 'get' or even care
    why you came up with the name. ;o)\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-21 15:24:45'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Go with a flat bottom. It says thunderhead. Rather than mix the two colors
    in a murky gradient, have you tried flourescent ink and black ink for the two
    seperate parts? Several combos could work:\r\n1. black cloud, flour text, white
    page\r\n2. flour cloud, black text, white page\r\n3. white cloud, black text,
    flour page\r\n\r\nEtc.\r\n\r\nI think that would give it the zing required and
    keep you 100% gradient free."
  created: '2007-05-21 18:05:39'
- author:
    name: leapingazelle
    picture: 112541
  body: "I agree with randy with taking the gradient away and spicing it up with the
    fluourescent ink.\r\nIt would definately give it an elegent and edgy touch\r\n\r\nabout
    my last post, I was just trying to throw some suggestions, i wasn't trying to
    be arrogant. the typeface i think is fine, I just thought that it would be nice
    to see a bunch of the different typefaces that you tried because we have nothing
    to really compare it to.\r\n\r\nBest\r\n\r\nGhaz"
  created: '2007-05-21 18:26:52'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Randy/Gahz, exactly what colour would the fluorescent ink be and how would
    it be conveyed on screen?\r\n\r\nIt would have to be something other than black
    which would then contradict the name Fluonoir.\r\n\r\nGahz, I didn't suggest that
    you were arrogant. It was just clear from your questions that you hadn't read
    the whole thread and made an assumption on how many concepts were explored before
    this one was posted. See Virginie's third post for her explanation of what the
    lightning cloud represents.\r\n\r\n<em><strong>100% gradient free</em></strong>\r\n\r\nSounds
    like a tagline on a pack of organic food."
  created: '2007-05-21 19:38:03'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "One other thought on the type. Usually, trying to transform and italic into
    a connected script is problematic. In this case it's giving you a zig zag effect
    that works well with the lightning. The same kind of thing going on here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.milwaukeetool.com/\r\n\r\nThe
    cloud gives the design a playful feeling, whilst the type suggest a more understated
    approach. Not knowing your combined styles, it's hard to make a recommendation
    on type. I do think drawing the type from scratch in a more bolder and more lively
    style (think Calcite or Fakir) would unify the design.\r\n\r\nAnd one other thing:
    consider connecting fluo and noir as in the *noi* join rather than two separate
    words. It would enhance the lightning rythm in the italic.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-21 19:51:22'
- author:
    name: JeffPeppers
    picture: 129498
  body: "here are my 2 cents:\r\n-what if the sharpness/roundness of the bolt reflects
    the shape of dot in the \"i\" in noir?\r\n-i dont dislike the idea of a flat bottomed
    cloud, but it starts looking more like a tree than a cloud..(to me)\r\n\r\n-although
    i think people are on the right track telling you to connect fluo-noir, i think
    its also important to consider those are the 2 words and there is a logical separation..
    so i wouldnt be sure that just connecting them is tooootally the right approach\r\n\r\noverall
    its nice, but kind of similar to other styles found in that somewhat clich\xE9
    \"web2.0\" look that is EVERYWHERE!\r\n\r\ngood luck."
  created: '2007-05-21 20:50:48'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "OMG, I'm gonna read all those comments tomorrow morning, I was out for the
    day...\r\nAnyhow thank you all for your opinions..."
  created: '2007-05-22 00:02:39'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: 'PS to WormWood : I love "Justice" (listen to : we are your friends)'
  created: '2007-05-22 00:05:10'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: 'PS to Ill Sans : for "Dharma" look up "Buddhism"...'
  created: '2007-05-22 00:09:39'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "Jeff, I'm really surprised (and not happy) about the \"web 2.0 clich\xE9\"
    thing, can you be more specific...?"
  created: '2007-05-22 00:10:57'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "leapinggazelle, this is not the first logotype I came up with, for christ
    sake !!!\r\nI posted the result that I like the most...\r\nAs it probably needs
    some more \"peaufinage\", I exposed it to the typophile critiques to get some
    feedback. So please don't assume I haven't done any research before posting that
    one..."
  created: '2007-05-22 00:15:49'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "If you are going to go with a flat bottom make it flat ... Also I think the
    lightening needs to shift over a bit more.\r\n\r\nThis is fun. I like the name.
    If you can't have fun with the name of your own company when can you have fun!?\r\n\r\nThe
    inks are a little on the muddy side, but I am not so sure about the neon rainbows.
    What about randomly picking from the rainbow?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/likezees_FluonoirLogos_5663_5261.jpg]"
  created: '2007-05-22 00:31:46'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "I also think the best solution would be to change the rainbow glow into a
    single color glow -- green, as it associates best with fluorescence.\r\n\r\nAlso
    is there any chance you could fine-tune the letters to make them really connect?
    \"fl\" seems to be no real ligature, and the connection of \"lu\" and \"ir\" are
    terrible. Maybe you want to consider using Adobe Caflish which provides very nice
    contextual alternatives that connect perfectly with each other:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/type/browser/P/P_1725.html"
  created: '2007-05-22 05:12:22'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: 'the fl is the actual ligature of Calisto MT, I like the font you suggested
    henrypijamas '
  created: '2007-05-22 12:07:40'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "henrypijamas,\r\nthis is the actual fl ligature of Calisto MT...\r\nI like
    the font you suggested though.\r\nworking on it!"
  created: '2007-05-22 12:08:59'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-22 14:45:50'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "Here is an improved version of the typographic signature...\r\nI worked on
    the ligatures, i'm not too sure about the end of the \"r\" though...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fln_6172.jpg]"
  created: '2007-05-22 14:46:45'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: Better "r"...[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fln2_4434.jpg]
  created: '2007-05-22 16:23:43'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: Better "r"...[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fln2_4434.jpg]
  created: '2007-05-22 16:23:43'
- author:
    name: leapingazelle
    picture: 112541
  body: "The more I look at it the more I like it. I just really didn't like the spectrum
    thing and it came out as anger...\r\n\r\nSorry I didn't mean to assume that you
    didn't try other logotypes and I guess I didn't read the post properly that it
    was a logo representing two people's collaborative work. So, that doesn't need
    any more explanations. I thought it was for a client.\r\n\r\nThe ligature is really
    nice and the round edges of the type embrace the soft round edges of the cloud
    and the ligatures do the same with the lightning bolt.\r\n\r\nI like the idea
    of the cloud glowing but not with a million colors. Maybe on black it could be
    a yellow and on white it could be another color, maybe like a pink or something."
  created: '2007-05-22 23:28:48'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: 'So what do you guys like better : the round "f" and "r" or the sharper one
    ?'
  created: '2007-05-23 08:51:16'
- author:
    name: zwoelf
    picture: 111926
  body: "I would just use the type itself. Really like the improvement of it! In my
    point of view, the cloud makes the logo childish and unseriuos...\r\n\r\nwww.zwoelf.hu"
  created: '2007-05-23 13:47:02'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "zwoelf, thank you for your comment.\r\nBut I think we're gonna stick to the
    cloud+lightening sign with the typographic signature.\r\n\r\nHere is the retouched
    version. What do you think?\r\nDid you guys prefer when the lightening was imitating
    the slope of the italic or now that it's parallel to the cloud?\r\n\r\nI'll take
    care of the color/spectrum/gradient thing in a second time.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/flnlogo_4070.jpg]"
  created: '2007-05-24 15:29:45'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: I liked the first lightning better, the "straight" version doesn't really
    have that lightning zest, it lacks power or something less obscure ;-)
  created: '2007-05-24 15:35:21'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "Right!\r\nWhat about that then?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/thunderbird_6684.jpg]"
  created: '2007-05-24 23:35:56'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Better, but still not as good as the original. Sorry...
  created: '2007-05-25 11:08:32'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "Do you mean the very first one...?\r\nBecause it gave that dymanic feeling
    because it was on the side\r\nand cropped by the \"fluffy\" cloud.\r\nIf I use
    the flat bottom cloud and that same lightening it looks like that last post..."
  created: '2007-05-25 12:29:52'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: I meant the very first, "slanted" lighning, yes & I think if you decide to
    go with the flat bottom, it works well in the example Miss Tiffany posted here.
    I have taken a look again at the very first draft & indeed the fluffly cloud seems
    to add a bit more spice to the lightning. All in all, I think Miss Tiffany's example
    is the perfect solution.
  created: '2007-05-25 13:22:45'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I think the ligtening in the last one is way too whimpy. \r\n\r\nI do like
    the type, but seems to be it's not quite a good match for the big, poofy clouds.
    Can you beef up the type a bit?"
  created: '2007-05-25 15:23:43'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "Last but not least !\r\nAny comments ?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/finalduofemale_5369.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/finalduomale_4115.jpg]"
  created: '2007-05-29 17:10:47'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "It's a shame about the cloud, but I think we've got a winner!\r\nThis looks
    really classy (I prefer the circles) & definitely suitable for a design studio.
    The cloud worked as well, but indicated a kind of playfullness which is now replaced
    by pure class & professionalism (not that the cloud could not work as a professional
    logo, but it would certainly attract different customers).\r\nThe question you
    need to ask yourself & your partner at this point is what's primary to you 2?
    Do you opt for the younger playfullness of the cloud or the professional class
    of your latest design?\r\nEither way, I absolutely LOVE the new circle logo!"
  created: '2007-05-29 18:04:14'
- author:
    name: all about seb
    picture: 110631
  body: "Hi Virginie,\r\n\r\ni am joining this discussion at a rather late point,
    but I feel the need to say: Please don't loose that fabulous cloud. When i saw
    your first post, my initial reaction was \"Yes, this i great.\" It looked fresh
    without trying to hard or being pretentious. Well done. \r\n\r\nThe new logo concepts
    are good, but in my opinion feel too safe, especially after seeing some of your
    work on your site. \r\n\r\nI hope you and your partner find a logo that works
    for both of you."
  created: '2007-05-29 21:52:54'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "I don't know what to think anymore...\r\nI do agree that the pictogram is
    kinda savvy\r\nbut I also agree on the cloud&lightening being a bit naive...\r\nI'd
    like to find \"la voie du milieu\".\r\nAny thoughts ?\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 09:46:16'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "Ladies and gentlemen,\r\nDear topic contributors,\r\n\r\nThank you all for
    your help.\r\n\r\nWe're gonna go for the round pictogram + typographic signature
    and keep the cloud + lightening for different applications such as the loaders
    of the website, etc.\r\n\r\nOnce again, typophile.com rocks."
  created: '2007-05-30 11:20:58'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Have you tried combining the 2? You can always opt for 2 different versions:
    one defined logo & another kind of trademark illustration if you know what I mean?
    I absolutely love both designs, but I think it's important to think about its
    purpose & what you're trying to convey which obviously relates to the kind of
    work you do & the assignments you'll attract.\r\nEven the name is set in a different
    light with the new logo. With the cloud it worked well in a playful way, but in
    the new logo, it becomes more abstract. I don't know if this makes any sense at
    all?\r\nI think using both is a perfect solution & will broaden your  clientele,
    but I would advice against using them both as a logo in different applications.
    I'm not sure if that's what you meant or if you also meant using one as a logo
    & the other as a trademark illustration?\r\nEither way, congratulations on a job
    well done & good luck with your studio!"
  created: '2007-05-30 11:38:51'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Oh, and yes, Typophile ROCKS!
  created: '2007-05-30 11:46:04'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "Thank you ;D !\r\n\r\nYes the cloud+lightening is going to be used without
    the typographic signature as some kind of trademark illustration, exactly that.\r\nWe
    thought that it was a shame to \"loose\" this graphic element, so we just gave
    it a new usage.\r\n\r\nI'm in the middle of setting the logotype use guidelines.\r\nI
    was wondering if anyone could post one that you think is really complete and well
    done (a .pdf for example).\r\n\r\nOther question, our dear wormwood has disappeared
    from the surface of this (virtual) earth for a while now, does anyone know if
    he's ok ?\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 12:39:39'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "You mean an existing one to use as a guideline to see what you need to cover
    in your styleguide? I'll try to look for one, but basically it covers colours,
    backgrounds, fonts, use of pictures & a whole bunch of measurements. It can end
    up getting quite thick even for a seemingly simple housestyle ;-)\r\nNow that
    you mention it, Wormwood's absence is indeed a little strange, but maybe he took
    a holiday? You can always contact him to see if he's OK.\r\nI'm glad to hear you're
    not letting the cloud go to waste & I can't wait to see your upcoming site!"
  created: '2007-05-30 12:50:29'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "This is a Dutch site that covers a whole bunch of housestyles, but I don't
    know if it's useful to you (I haven't really taken a good look at it). For translations,
    you can always come to me ;-)\r\n\r\nhttp://users.ncrvnet.nl/hstol/56.html"
  created: '2007-05-30 12:53:49'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "Yes I meant an existing one.\r\nI do visual identity guidelines for my clients
    too I was just thinking to see what others do...\r\nAnd yes, I agree it can become
    quite thick... :(\r\n\r\nThe website will be up and running pretty soon. I'll
    let you know about the \"grand opening / website launch\" ;). BTW, do you happen
    to have a website too?\r\n\r\nI've been in contact with wormwood via e-mail but
    I haven't got any news from him for a week now, and it seems kinda strange since
    he suddenly stopped his replies in the middle of a conversation... I'm kinda worried..."
  created: '2007-05-30 13:07:00'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Maybe this is useful:\r\nhttp://www.mtholyoke.edu/offices/comm/identity/pdf/VislGuid.pdf\r\n\r\nI
    don't know the company, but it seems pretty detailed. They have another pdf, but
    my computer already crashed twice on that one.\r\n\r\nYou're starting to get me
    a little worried now as well. I can also try to contact him, but I don't think
    that will make much of a difference. But maybe we're just being paranoid & he's
    just taking a vacation without his computer? Let's hope so."
  created: '2007-05-30 13:15:26'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "Hey just found this, pretty interesting...\r\nhttp://www.brandsoftheworld.com/guidelines/"
  created: '2007-05-30 13:19:23'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: 'Brands of the world is in my toolbar favourites, I can''t believe I didn''t
    think of that... DUH! But in my defense: the answer right under your nose is the
    one you''re most likely to overlook ;-)'
  created: '2007-05-30 13:23:17'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: Jon / wormwood, wherever you are in the world wide world, send us a postcard
    and drink an apple martini for us, plz ; )
  created: '2007-05-30 13:28:53'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/flnspectrum_6593.jpg]'
  created: '2007-05-31 16:00:05'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: I don't want to keep you confused, but I liked the black & white version better.
    Maybe a gradient glow could work,  but in this example the logo itself is barely
    visible.
  created: '2007-05-31 16:05:53'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: The gradient really kills the logo IMO. I also liked it when there was a disconnect
    between the o and n.
  created: '2007-05-31 16:36:27'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "if you want to keep the glow, then keep it behind the circle. Don't pass
    it through the fn symbol. Let things in the circle be white.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fn_6142.jpg]\r\n\r\nor
    at least make the symbol a single light colour.\r\n\r\n...Robert"
  created: '2007-05-31 16:46:01'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "I think I kinda \"lost myself\" with the logotype yesterday...\r\nMy partner
    doesn't like the gradient (and shining effect that I did later on yesterday).\r\nGrr,
    but I still kinda feel that it's not finished and that I should refine it somehow...\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-01 09:37:02'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "Any ideas ?\r\n\r\nPS : Absolutely no news of wormwood for 8 days now..."
  created: '2007-06-01 10:10:47'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: "Hi, Like the logotype. think the type is really strong. Maybe the wordmark
    is enough???\r\n\r\nI don't know if your still looking for manuals but this site
    might be helpfull: \r\n\r\nhttp://www.cidoc.net/cat_web_manuals.html\r\n\r\nGr
    Marco\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-01 13:43:28'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "Here is a small modification.\r\nCan you see it ? And, better, do you like
    it ?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fln_3516.jpg]"
  created: '2007-06-01 13:45:14'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "an other one\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/flnc_4350.jpg]"
  created: '2007-06-01 14:06:08'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "more...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cachalot_5846.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cachalot2_4764.jpg]"
  created: '2007-06-01 15:08:19'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: I think you need to take a break from it for a while, DrDuckling. The first
    change in your latest post was good, but after that I think you kind of started
    losing it. Try not to overthink it & go with your instincts. It can be helpful
    sometimes to step away from it for a couple of days, give both the design & your
    head a rest & then have another look at it. You'd be surprised to see how your
    perception of it can change after a break.
  created: '2007-06-01 15:45:05'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "You're probably right Ill Sans but I wanna finish this today, we have a deadline...\r\nI
    came back to the first version and i'm just refining it.\r\nWill post the final
    result.\r\n\r\nPS : I agree I totally lost it on the last ones... Pfff\r\nHad
    way too much wine last night..."
  created: '2007-06-01 16:28:21'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "You're probably right Ill Sans but I wanna finish this today, we have a deadline...\r\nI
    came back to the first version and i'm just refining it.\r\nWill post the final
    result.\r\n\r\nPS : I agree I totally lost it on the last ones... Pfff\r\nHad
    way too much wine last night..."
  created: '2007-06-01 16:28:22'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Alcohol can have a stimulating effect sometimes as well, so it was definitely
    worth a shot ;-p
  created: '2007-06-01 16:40:41'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "I think we're gonna choose between those 4.\r\nI think it's (almost) perfect
    (if perfection exist).\r\nMy partner is really happy with it too !!\r\nWhich one
    would you choose ?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/empattement_6353.jpg]"
  created: '2007-06-01 16:59:43'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: I think I'd go for the first one. In the 2nd & 4th ones the lower serif of
    the f is just a bit too "heavy" for me. The third one might also work well.
  created: '2007-06-01 17:35:55'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "I'd go with number one. Stop. It's perfect.\r\nBTW: For full colour  press
    I still liked the outer glow of it. Just don't make it too strong."
  created: '2007-06-01 18:31:11'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: I think for press a laminated logo would look great on a matte underground,
    both in black.
  created: '2007-06-01 18:35:58'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "Yes, that's what I thought I'd do : a \"pelliculage mat\" with a \"vernis
    s\xE9lectif\"\r\nBut I was thinking other stuff too : I was thinking \"feutrine\"
    (I have no idea how to translate this).\r\nMy partner wants the first one too
    (by the way).\r\nIt's going to be only one color not spectrum/glow/shadow/light."
  created: '2007-06-01 20:01:08'
- author:
    name: Robert Trogman
    picture: 111573
  body: Look like a balloon used in cartoons
  created: '2007-07-17 00:05:47'
date: '2007-05-19 13:04:39'
node_type: forum
title: Freelance Collaboration logotype

---
