---
author:
  name: urtd
  picture: 112407
body: "hello.\r\n\r\nthis is new or fixed:\r\n\r\nthe bowl of <strong>a</strong> is
  a bit bigger.\r\nthe curves in <strong>h, m, n</strong> are more flat now.\r\ni
  changed the diagonal strokes of <strong>K, k, R</strong> so they match <strong>Q</strong>
  in both roman and italic style. i like this new sharp feeling more, but maybe it
  needs some more optical fixes.\r\nthe italic style is more wild than i planned,
  so it is not possible for me to see all optical problems. \r\n\r\ni would really
  appreciate your help. thank you."
comments:
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I love it. But you already knew that. The italic is also very nice, maybe
    a bit wild indeed, but I think it's working for the most part.\r\nSome characters
    might need some work, like the italic 'f' for example, which has a bit of a lump
    on the lower part. But I would have to laserprint it first to really comment on
    that. Besides, I'm not much of a serif 'connaisseur', so someone else can probably
    give more constructive critiques on that.\r\nBut the roman is absolutely gorgeous
    in my opinion."
  created: '2007-05-21 14:52:14'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: It's gorgeous! The "wildness" of the italic is just right, IMO. My only critique
    is that i feel that the exiting down-stroke on some italic lowercase letters is
    a bit too expressive, almost making some letters feel like they're weak or broken
    in that spot. this is particularly noticeable in the h,m,n and somewhat in the
    a,d,u. The lowercase z could be even more wild.
  created: '2007-05-21 15:34:06'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Great effort! Especially the roman. I've often experimented with the curve
    & corner concept you have working so nicely here. BTW, the 8/10 - 10/12 settings
    looks right for this.\r\n\r\n<strong>Roman</strong>\r\ns,S: The apperature is
    too tight for me here. I think the spine might benefit from more hoizontal movement
    (see Palatino). They feel pinched at the moment. The s serifs may be a bit long.\r\n\r\n<strong>Italic</strong>\r\nI
    think Paul's comments about the exit strokes are right on. To me they cause it
    to feel wavey gravey. It has a nauseating effect on me when reading blocks of
    text set in it. In short spells it's not so noticeable, nor when it's smaller.
    Also, the italic seems dark. \r\n\r\nI guess to me it feels like the roman is
    taught and muscular, where as the italic is sporting a beer belly. Consider bringing
    more of the flavor of your j,k,y,E,F into the italic. You might look at Chapparal
    italic mixed with Kompliat.\r\n\r\nNice work! -- Randy"
  created: '2007-05-21 16:14:33'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: Oops forgot to mention the roman w,W combo... consider taking the middle all
    the way up to the x-height/cap-height and rejiggering the angles (probably a little
    wider too). They are a little distracting to me right now.
  created: '2007-05-21 16:20:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I love the italic. Distinguished but unapologetic.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-21 19:14:17'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I agree with Paul about the exit strokes. I'm not sure I agree with Randy
    about the W-w. I'm very sensitive to cap W as my last name starts with it. So
    many typefaces have the W and w too wide. I do wonder if you can make it work
    in the cap-W, raising the center apex, but I like the lowercase-w as it is. But,
    hmmm ... but again maybe at text sizes it might seem like a mistake. \r\n\r\nThe
    4 seem bent to me. Isn't in keeping with the other figs.\r\n\r\nI read the lowercase
    f the same as Jelmar. But, but ... on the other hand it seems like a nice detail.
    I see how it mimics the q and p ... I wonder if the \"bubble\" couldn't be lengthened
    a bit to appear as smooth and subtle as the q and the p.\r\n\r\nOverall this is
    beautiful!!"
  created: '2007-05-21 19:54:17'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "Wonderful. Reminds me in a way of Kinesis, which I love.\r\n\r\nAlthough
    the M is okay at text sizes, to me it looks kind of broken in the middle at sizes
    between approx. 36pt and 48pt. Perhaps the joint where the diagonal strokes meet
    could be strengthened a bit. This could be a limitation of the Acrobat zoom feature,
    though; I haven't actually printed anything out at high res to check.\r\n\r\nThe
    other thing that bothers me is the leg of roman R. It looks a little too short
    and not adequately attached to the bowl. Also, the leg doesn't have its foot on
    the ground -- it actually looks like it's missing a foot, if you know what I mean
    by this weird visual metaphor. Maybe it's my fairly inexperienced eyes, but then
    you don't want a typeface to look right only to type design experts.\r\n\r\nAll
    in all, my most sincere congratulations."
  created: '2007-05-21 20:48:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Kinesis is the single best typeface in the entire Adobe library.\r\nAlthough
    Warnock comes close.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-21 21:07:53'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: Re. roman R, John Hudson wrote something interesting in a March 12 post to
    the ATypI list. I've learned not to quote from private lists, so if you're a member...
  created: '2007-05-21 21:11:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Here the way you have handled the thick/thin assymetrical serifs is the opposite
    of the way this was traditionally done. See for example, Trinit\xE9 at teff.nl,
    and Fedra serif at typotheque.com. For me this way looks backwards and awkward. "
  created: '2007-05-21 21:53:35'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Interesting William. I like it in the italic as is (reverse assymetry), but
    agree with you on the roman.\r\n\r\nThe problem with your Ss is in the italic
    Ss too. I also noticed that the italic 8 suffers the same issue. Also on the 8,
    the top and bottom counters should be opened up more by adjusting where the ends
    cross the spine. There should be at least some overlap as there is in your roman
    8. Hope that made some sense.\r\n\r\nHrant, I'm surprised you like something with
    such chiro-tastic structures. The italic especially is equal parts broad nibbed
    pen and brush script . (but lets not derail)"
  created: '2007-05-21 22:11:41'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: "Full of promising energy. Could the bottom of italic f match j maybe, instead
    of p and q? Or how about moving the bulge upwards, to harmonise with h m n? (The
    middle looks a bit weak and stiff in comparison as it is.) But then that might
    make it look like B\xE2tarde/Fraktur..."
  created: '2007-05-21 23:11:33'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "I think the point of the bulge is mimicking the pen/brush movement as it
    transitions from the bottom of the stem and into the next stroke. This is why
    I mention the brush script influence. I don't think it makes sense on the f (or
    any of the decenders) because there is no second stroke. Also MHSmith, if that's
    the case it wouldn't make sense at the baseline of the f either.\r\n\r\nOndrej,
    please come back and set us straight :-)"
  created: '2007-05-22 15:28:54'
- author:
    name: urtd
    picture: 112407
  body: "hello. thank you all for fantastic feedback.\r\n\r\nRandy, you are right.
    the \"brush script influence\" is actually allmost exact following my sketches
    made with yellow highlight marker :) that's also where those broken inner curves
    came from.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_3238_4973.jpg]\r\n\r\nyou
    were also right about the <strong>f</strong>. there's no reason to keep the bulge,
    this is pure aesthetical thing. but maybe it is all wrong. i haven't experimented
    with that very much. \r\n\r\nabout the serifs: i haven't done any deep research,
    so i actually don't know, how they are traditionally done. well, the overall idea
    of kompilat is to follow my calligraphy (i'm left-hander, and i don't follow the
    \"don't-push-the-nib\" rule, which could possibly explain some discussed issues).
    anyways, i know, where serifs came from, but i tried to draw them, so the actual
    shape of serif is derived from a short right-to-left and slightly rotated stroke
    with broad-nibbed marker.\r\n\r\ni agree with Erik, the legs of <strong>R, K,
    k</strong> in both roman and italic need some adjustment. the drawing was as quick
    as the desicion to make them like this.\r\n\r\nRandy, i can see the italic <strong>8</strong>
    is wrong and i'm going to fix it, but i still somehow don't understand, what you
    said about the <strong>S</strong> and <strong>s</strong>. maybe it is because
    english is not my native language, but i have an english speaking friend here
    so i'll ask for help :)\r\n\r\nthank you all very much, i really appreciate your
    help.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-22 17:02:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">the overall idea of kompilat is to follow my calligraphy\r\n\r\nThis may
    be a mistake. I don't think there is any problem in being inspired by calligraphy--Kinesis
    is an outstanding example. However, following it too closely can mess you up,
    because type and calligraphy have different demands. \r\n\r\nIn the case of the
    serifs, there is assymetry in Jenson's serifs--influenced by calligraphy--and
    in those influenced by him. The Jenson style assymetry works not just because
    of calligraphy, IMHO, but because it gives a sense of motion to the right. Our
    latin script is left-to-right, and that is reflected in the letter shapes, which
    generally have a feeling of opening to the right, moving to the right. Even though
    our eyes fixate to read, this sense of movement is still a plus, I think. "
  created: '2007-05-22 17:30:12'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Hi Ondrej,\r\n\r\nThank you for posting your drawing. The brush script influence
    gives this font it's interest, so I think it's important to try and keep it as
    much as possible. I really like your sketch. I actually like it much better than
    your italic font. I compared the two in an image so that i can tell you more about
    the differences I see:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/m_p_4063.jpg]\r\n\r\nGenerally,
    I think the sketch is much more strong and unified.\r\n\r\nRED: Shows the diagonal
    stress in the sketch. It is confused in the font. You can see it most on the last
    leg of the m, but it's everywhere (even in the p).\r\n\r\nBLUE: Where the stroke
    leaves the stem should be more consistent. Also in the p, it should be lower so
    it flows with the turn at the bottom of the stem.\r\n\r\nPURPLE: I think the exit
    stroke on the m (n, i, l etc) is too long. Consider shortening. Also, the beginning
    stroke and ending stroke will be more united if they follow the same angle. In
    the font they are flat (entering) and angled (exiting). In the sketch they are
    the same.\r\n\r\n- - - - - - \r\n\r\nSs:\r\n\r\nYour english is GREAT. I will
    try to explain with a picture (I hope I don't confuse!).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/s_s_5799.jpg]\r\n\r\nRED:
    I'm showing the counter spaces. For most of your font they are open spaces like
    a square. You can see this in the R, q,and r. But the S is a very tight space
    like a triangle. It feels even more like a triangle because of the corner point.\r\n\r\nBLUE:
    I think the corner point is ok, but the spine (middle curve) of the S, s could
    bend more make the counter more open (like a square).\r\n\r\nPURPLE: The big dark
    finish on the lower case s makes the triangle even smaller and makes less room
    for white space to get in. Consider making it more open, and maybe try to match
    the style to the uppercase S serif (beak serif) or the r (no serif).\r\n\r\nGREEN:
    I think the italic s is one of the hardest letters to draw. Usually it is the
    last italic letter I do. Your italic s feels a little rotated to me. I think giving
    the spine more of the shape below, will help.\r\n\r\n- - - - - -\r\n\r\nLast thing:
    This is all my opinion. You are obviously talented, and have made many good choices
    without us ... so don't forget your design ideas because of our suggestions.\r\n\r\nRandy"
  created: '2007-05-24 21:28:35'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: wow! great stuff randy! i'm gonna start sending all my stuff to you for professional
    critiques... if i can afford your services. >^p
  created: '2007-05-24 21:48:11'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: Not so fast Paul, I was about to resume my vow of silence for another 12 months
    :-)
  created: '2007-05-24 23:07:49'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Ondrej,\r\n\r\nI like this. Its proportions look ideal for pairing with any
    of the plethora of semi-condensed info sans designs that have appeared lately.
    Contrast, weight, proportions, relationship between Roman and Italic and variety
    of shape are all working nicely here. \r\n\r\nI agree with Randy about the terminals
    and angles in s and S. Run through all your alphabetic characters and assess whether
    the serifs are the right length. This design seems right with long serifs, but
    some of them are sticking out, in a visual sense. \r\n\r\nI also agree about the
    angle of the entry strokes on the italic. with such flat intro serifs, the italic
    seems a little like it's tipping, and there's nothing else about the italic shapes
    that gives that effect. \r\n\r\nI also agree about the tail of R. It looks a little
    pasted on. This is the one thing I think is weak about Maiola as well. Given the
    variety of serif and terminal shapes you've used, it should be easy to find the
    right shape for this tail. This is also a feature that lends itself to a lot more
    experimentation and variety than even the terminals on S. Try a lot of different
    things; a knife point, flat feet, a tiny spur on the left, curved serif, taper
    going the other way, bent leg, bent leg the other way..... This is the fun part,
    don't miss out!\r\n\r\nConsider tapering the vertical thin stems of N as well.
    There is a lot of very effective tapering elsewhere, and the N looks a little
    bland by contrast.\r\n\r\nYes, also to strengthening middle joints of MWw. I also
    think you should consider reversing the taper on one or both stems of u. \r\n\r\nI
    don't agree with William about the asymmetrical serifs. In text they behave nicely.\r\n\r\nOne
    thing I think you should reconsider: The extreme ink traps in the italic adqu.
    They are actually weakening the visual weight of the main stems. Please go to
    a bookstore and look at various types as printed in magazines and books. Modern
    printing (even newspapers to some degree) is very very faithful to the original
    art and type, and ink traps of this size will still be apparent down to about
    10 point. Given a choice between a little potential clotting at joints (of very
    few letters) and stems that seem to be breaking off, I'd go with the former. In
    text, this design is very lively and will not be muddied by the lack of ink traps;
    the sinuous stems, pronounced serifs, distinctive angled counters, and the rich
    color mean this design will stand up to photocopying, projection, printing in
    reverse, and all kinds of other harsh conditions. Don't make it fit just one,
    increasingly rare printing scenario, when the typeface will be so generally useful
    otherwise.\r\n\r\nYou must have made arrangements to release this by now. It's
    very nice. "
  created: '2007-05-25 00:04:30'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: very nice ... i would buy it
  created: '2007-05-25 11:05:15'
- author:
    name: urtd
    picture: 112407
  body: "randy and carl,\r\n\r\nthank you so much for your massive feedback.\r\n\r\nrandy:\r\nthe
    sketch i've posted was drawn about a month after the sketches for actual italic
    font and i was really surprised, when i realized the difference after reading
    your comment. but, to be honest, the current stems are much more curved as they
    are on those sketches!\r\ni'm trying to find out, why and where did i get to those
    shapes... anyways, i like the waviness of italics a lot, so i'm not sure, if i
    want to change it. how about two different italics? :)\r\ni agree with the angle
    and lenght of italic serifs, also with the consistency of the upward stroke in
    <strong>p</strong>. thanks lot for the great graphic explanation of the \"S-problem\".
    i agree with the serifs, but i am still quite ok with the curve. but i'll try
    to play with it though, because i'm unexperienced and have to trust you :)\r\n\r\ncarl:\r\nthis
    is how tails of <strong>R, K, k</strong> looked like in previous version: <a href=\"http://typophile.com/files/urt_kompilat.pdf\">pdf</a>\r\ni
    decided to change and unify them with the tail of <strong>Q</strong> and also
    <strong>j, y</strong>. i think this style could work fine after i adjust them
    a bit. \r\nthe tappering of the thin stems in <strong>N</strong> and maybe in
    other characters too seems to be a good idea. that could add more life to the
    design.\r\nnow i can see that the ink traps are a bit exaggerated. i tried to
    make the stems lighter, but on the other hand i really like the aesthetical thing
    about the ink traps, so i couldn't see what is too much and what is ok.\r\n\r\nwell.
    it seems there's a lot of work to do. i will keep posting my pdfs. thank you all.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-25 22:29:05'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Have you tried what happens if you change the tail of the Q the other way
    around, as in, change it so it fits with the earlier tails of the K and R? Instead
    of changing the K and R to fit with the Q.\r\nBecause I think I like the earlier
    ones better. But that is just my opinion, it might work the way it is now, but
    it does need a bit of tweaking."
  created: '2007-05-26 13:09:37'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Hi Ondrej,\r\n\r\nI don't have any problem with the R, K, k. I think your
    solution is valid, unified and a matter of preference. \r\n\r\n<em>well. it seems
    there\u2019s a lot of work to do</em>\r\nSet a realisic goal for yourself and
    call it finished. Forget two italics :-) If you don't, you will get bored this
    font, start another very nice font, and we'll never have the benefit of this one!
    I speak from experience (my hardrive is full of half kerned romans with half finished
    italics)."
  created: '2007-05-26 19:45:14'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>i like the waviness of italics a lot, so i\u2019m not sure, if i want
    to change it. how about two different italics?</em>\r\n\r\nhonestly, the 'weak'
    italic would probably prevent me from licensing this and keep looking for something
    with a similar feel. i'm one that always likes to explore alternate solutions,
    so if you have the time and energy to try a second italic, i'd say go for it!
    but if this typeface is just for your own personal pleasure, make it however it
    you like to."
  created: '2007-05-28 07:49:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Finally I've made time to rejoin this exceptional thread!\r\nIt's rare to
    see such helpful sketches.\r\n\r\nRandy, I don't know if there's one answer to
    your wondering as to why I like the Italic... I think a lot of it has to do with
    it being an Italic and not a Roman, and the fact that ideally I'm seeing it used
    by itself. But another reason is that (as I've stated before on occasion) I actually
    like chirographic forms just as much as the next human being... as long as they
    don't intrude. Meaning that as long as they don't pretend to promote readability.\r\n\r\n>
    I don\u2019t think it makes sense on the f\r\n\r\nYou see, this is the type of
    logic which I think is too literal. In <cite>type</cite>, the bulge works, this
    way or that, because it does, not because of where it comes from. Same thing with
    stroke contrast, serifs, and everything else.\r\n\r\n> i\u2019m left-hander\r\n\r\nPorbably
    quite telling (and positive) here.\r\n\r\n> Forget two italics \r\n\r\nI would
    agree that at this point just stick to releasing the typeface with one, but being
    a big fan of multiple italics I would advise you to at least plan ahead: as you're
    making the first release one, make it in a way as to leave room (in various dimensions,
    mostly inclination and cursiveness) for the second one. Also, I would release
    the \"pushy\" one first and the more docile one later - that way you generate
    more interest and you'll get a better feel for how desirable a second Italic might
    be; even if most people say \"I hate it\" at least they'd be paying attention
    and would notice and value the second one. If you release the docile one first
    people will just go \"Ho-hum\" and forget about follow-ups.\r\n\r\nBTW Ondrej,
    Carl has a thing against ink traps... while I have\r\na thing <cite>for</cite>
    them! :-)  I think you should keep them, mostly\r\nbecause they help \"under the
    radar\" of the reader. A lot of very\r\ngood type designers rely on them (although
    usually gently).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 18:08:03'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Correction: I do <strong>not</strong> have a thing against ink traps. I have
    a thing against mimicking things without understanding their function. Of course
    Ondrej may understand the function of these perfectly well, but I should have
    made this more clear: reconsider the size of the ink traps; they're so long and
    deep they're cleaving the letters apart. They won't be \"under the radar\" at
    the current size. They only help if they make the letters more clear. If they
    make the letters weak, they backfire. You could turn them towards the bowl so
    that they take weight from the bowl, not from the stem. You could also make them
    less deep. In any case it's not something I'd make into a major feature, given
    the [pleasantly] dark texture of this design. It's something to add if it clarifies
    the intended appearance, but they were invented to compensate for ink filling
    in, and that is rarely a concern any more. If they are decorative, then add a
    bunch more, there aren't enough. \r\n\r\nThe best measure for the right size ink
    traps is, unfortunately, a press test. Maybe you can find a project to use this
    on, even at the early stage. It's a good opportunity to get a fresh look at the
    design. Get makeready sheets from the printer, too, so you can see the type under-inked
    as well."
  created: '2007-05-30 23:42:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> reconsider the size of the ink traps\r\n\r\nAwww shucks, you're OK after
    all.  ;-)\r\n\r\n> a press test.\r\n\r\nCoupled to an eye test - traps aren't
    just for bleed, but for optics too.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-31 00:17:31'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Any news on this nice typeface?
  created: '2007-08-23 02:19:56'
- author:
    name: ferfolio
    picture: 128984
  body: "Relly original, i like it a lot! XD\r\n\r\nIm also doing a roman serif typeface\r\n\r\nkeep
    up the good work!\r\n\r\ngreetings\r\n\r\nFerch :)"
  created: '2007-08-23 02:43:56'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: I'm in love.
  created: '2007-09-15 13:14:46'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "reminds me of Greta or visa versa \r\n\r\nMikey :-)"
  created: '2008-01-22 22:57:36'
- author:
    name: ferfolio
    picture: 128984
  body: "Hey!\r\n\r\ncongrats, i relly like this type\r\n\r\nthe italics are great,
    they have a lot of character, althoug they still need work\r\nkeep up the good
    work!\r\n\r\nFerch\r\n\r\n[[http://www.tipografia-montevideo.info/|Tipograf\xEDa-Montevideo]]"
  created: '2008-02-03 02:18:38'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: 'A revival (or something around that area code) ? reminds me of Freundschaft.
    An old  calligraphic font '
  created: '2008-07-23 07:41:27'
date: '2007-05-21 14:41:07'
files:
- filename: kompilat_070521_0.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/kompilat_070521_0.pdf
- filename: IMG_3238.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/IMG_3238.jpg
node_type: forum
title: Kompilat + italic

---
