---
author:
  name: Charlotta
  picture: 112418
body: "I've been working on a project for a long time now trying to find an image/symbol
  to represent an \"enfant terrible\" and the only thing I've come up with so far
  is a black sheep. Very creative...And besides, is a black sheep applicable to other
  people when they think about an enfant terrible? My interpretation is an interesting
  person who might have a problem \"fitting in\", who's not afraid to be different,
  and someone rebellious and flamboyant and that's what I want to portray in this
  project. \r\nIf anyone out there has a suggestion for this I would be INCREDIBLY
  grateful since my whole frickin project is an arrested development right now because
  I'm stuck trying to figure this one out.  :-)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "How about putting devil's horns or a devil's tail on your black sheep. In
    addition to what you described, I think of an enfant terrible as being a bit of
    a provocateur, a thorn in the side of respectable society. Horns might not really
    read properly though since some sheep do have horns.\r\n\r\nOr a baby/devil?"
  created: '2007-05-21 14:49:54'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "An \"enfant terrible\" is ideal for mixing cute with hardcore...\r\nTake
    anything cute (this can be a teddybear, a lettercube,... or something more symbolic
    like a heart) & set it to fire! Lock it in chains, tattoo it, pierce it! Basically,
    go nuts & have fun!"
  created: '2007-05-21 15:20:32'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>And besides, is a black sheep applicable to other people when they think
    about an enfant terrible? </em>\r\n\r\nHmm.  Well, not to me.  ;-)  \r\n\r\n\"Black
    sheep\" do what they do because they are intelligent, confident and competent
    to a high degree, aware that they are different than others, and aren't ashamed
    of it.   Oscar Wilde is a pretty good example of one.\r\n\r\nAn \"enfant terrible\"
    is just a whiny brat, desperate for attention, and oblivious to the world around
    them (and vice versa).  Find your own example.  ;-)\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Daniel Denk
      picture: 112599
    body: "\"Find your own example.\"\r\n\r\nThat cracked me up.\r\n"
    created: '2007-06-18 19:59:43'
  created: '2007-05-21 15:30:37'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Thank you for great ideas and thoughts about this! I have considered doing
    something with a devil - maybe an angel with horns, or is that too blasphemous?
    \ ;-)\r\nThe AD I worked with earlier suggested a little girl with pig tails holding
    a gun, but I'm not that crazy about weapons.  ;-)\r\nLinda - I totally agree with
    you about finding my own example, or interpretation of what it means to me, but
    I don't agree with your explanation of an enfant terrible. They're usually known
    as provocateurs, for example, \"he's the enfant terrible of the art world\". But
    then again, maybe a provocative artist is just a whiny brat looking for attention
    deep inside.   ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-21 18:14:05'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I think the difference is substance -- black sheep have it, and \"enfants
    terribles\" don't.  \r\n\r\nYou can be almost as crazy as you want if you're a
    genius.  ;-)  "
  created: '2007-05-21 18:20:42'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "The Wikipedia says:\r\nAn enfant terrible, from the French meaning \"terrible
    child\", is one whose startlingly unconventional behavior, work, or thought embarrasses
    or disturbs others.\r\n\r\nTricky, that one.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-21 18:21:18'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "The problem with the enfant terrible is that the behavior can actually distract
    you from whether or not there's any substance. It can be hard to get past the
    antics. But life without them would be a big bore.\r\n\r\nAll artists are looking
    for attention.\r\n\r\nI don't agree with Linda's assessment of the black sheep
    either, the black sheep can just be the family f**k-up. It's not always a choice
    and they're not always looking for attention.\r\n\r\nFrom wikipedia (just so we're
    comparing apples to apples - and not to pc's)\r\nBlack sheep is a derogatory colloquialism
    in the English language meaning an outsider or one who is different in a way which
    others disapprove of or find odd. This can be someone who has been shunned by
    others, or one who has chosen to be an outsider, due to actions and aims that
    separate them from the rest of the people or \"flock\". A typical example might
    be a family member who has chosen to follow a religion other than that of the
    rest of his family.\r\n\r\nSo as I see it, the black sheep symbol doesn't really
    apply. \r\n\r\nMaybe a sassy baby sticking it's tongue out?"
  created: '2007-05-21 18:28:48'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: I come from a family full of black sheep and we resent that remark.  ;-)
  created: '2007-05-21 18:30:58'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I am influenced by the Jean Cocteau Novel of the same name\r\n\r\nCocteau,
    Jean, The Holy Terrors (Les enfants terribles)\r\n\r\nSo my idea about the phrase
    is that the 'enfants terribles' is presnet to some degree in all children. To
    me that's the more interesting idea. It isn't a suggestion I know but perhaps
    a different spin will help. Also, the book is short & quite good I think. \r\n\r\nWhat's
    the context for your project anyway? Why 'enfants terribles'?"
  created: '2007-05-21 18:34:16'
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: "immediately thought of him:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/3_Struwwelpeter_6371.jpg]\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Struwwelpeter\r\n\r\nEven
    Mark Twain had a go at translating this, included in his rather wonderful book
    \"The Awful German Language\"."
  created: '2007-05-21 18:48:55'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "http://www.shockheadedpeter.com/\r\n\r\nThe Tiger Lillies are amazing."
  children:
  - author:
      name: TomShep
      picture: 112556
    body: "oops. getting used to this place...\r\n\r\nI just glanced over 'The Three
      Incestuous Sisters', I guess the 'enfant terrible' would have an aspect of self
      loathing, an introverted hatrid that fuels the desire to malign, shock and disturb.
      I agree that the icon needs an aspect of beauty and grace, and I also like the
      'insect' idea. A moth however is too ephemeral, the terrible child is far more
      robust and glistens in its own torrid glory. The beauty has to be ambiguous.
      I prefer a scorpion to a spider, and a whole octopus to a tentacle...\r\n\r\nAn
      octopus pulling the strings of a child puppet?\r\n\r\nAn octopus with malevolent
      rattles in each tentacle?\r\n\r\nThen again, I prefer a squid to an octopus...\r\n"
    created: '2007-05-22 15:59:37'
  created: '2007-05-21 18:56:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Interesting project.\r\n\r\nI think a key element would be a tongue sticking
    out.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-21 19:12:03'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "This is very interesting and certainly thought provoking. I have always felt
    (and called myself) the black sheep in my family, in spite of being deeply loved
    by my parents. I wasn't acting out and being a difficult teenager but I was the
    sensitive and creative one,\r\nnothing like my pragmatic, down-to-earth, older
    sister. And then growing up I never knew what to do with my life - there never
    was a \"straight path to follow\" career-wise. I was always the bohemian, the
    creative, the impulsive, the one always sticking out and never feeling I belonged.
    I think this often applies to children who are more creatively talented. For me
    it was music at first, then design. My sister followed my mother's path and became
    a nurse. Life was always so much easier for her. \r\nWhen I came across the words
    \"enfant terrible\" the first time I immediately could relate but now I don't
    know. I might be provocative,\r\nflamboyant and go my own way, but never because
    I desperately need to assert myself or crave attention. \r\n\r\nThe project is
    jewelry (my own). One collection is called \"Social Butterfly\" the other \"Enfant
    Terrible\". The first is more subtle, pretty, feminine, classic with understated
    colors, and the \"Enfant Terrible\" is bold, flamboyant, edgy, and colorful -
    for people who like to stand out and wanting to be noticed. I chose these two
    \"epithets\" because they're so far apart and beause I can identify with both.
    I am so grateful for all your comments but it bothers me a bit that most of you
    have negative feelings about an enfant terrible.\r\nThat's not good consider I'm
    launching a collection. ;-) Maybe I should just go with Black sheep instead?   ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-21 19:42:59'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: ":-)  There's a nice contrast there too, though -- a mammal/vertebrate with
    four feet on the ground vs. insect/invertebrate that flies.\r\n\r\nI agree with
    you that there are a lot of negatives associated with \"enfant terrible\": must
    be that \"more prone to toss a tantrum\" aspect.  :-("
  created: '2007-05-21 19:56:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But of course a true enfant terrible relishes those negative associations!\r\n\r\nCharlotta,
    those are two great names for your jewelry lines.\r\nOnce in a while, I wish I
    were a woman. For a second.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-21 20:01:41'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Actually, I think "black sheep" has a more negative ring to it than "enfant
    terrible" although in a different, kind of depressing way. Even though Wikipedia
    clearly states it can come from a personal choice, I associate black sheep with
    empathy for a stranger, the quiet, shy kid in the back of the class that no one
    speaks to whereas I associate "enfant terrible" with the rebel (in which I can
    see the flamboyant colours working). To me an "enfant terrible" is a bit like
    a joker, provocative in a playfull manner much like the joker Jack Nicholson portrayed
    in Batman.
  created: '2007-05-21 20:09:52'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Don't drop the name. It has much more swagger than *black sheep*. How much
    mileage has Blue Q gotten out of negative connotations? Enfant seems tame compared
    to their tongue in cheek bad girl/rodeo/sacrilege theme. \r\n\r\nThanks for sharing
    about both lines. The contrasting labels seems like they give you more leeway
    with the design. I think you can play more loosely with Enfant Terrible, because
    the key is the contrast.\r\n\r\nSpiders (brown recluse vs social butterfly), bettles,
    or bats might contrast well too. I liked pattyfab's suggestion of the sheep with
    devil tail. Got me thinking about mythological beasts and somehow Enfant Terrible
    says Dragon in Diapers to me."
  created: '2007-05-21 20:20:40'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Linda - I agree. There is definitely a contrast but at the same time something
    links them together - both being animals which kind of binds them nicely together.\r\n\r\nhrant
    - I agree with you too! :-) Obviously I want a reaction to draw attention to my
    jewelry. And thank you for saying that you like the names, that made me really
    happy!  :-) Do you wish you were a woman so you could make jewelry or wear them?
    \ ;-)\r\n\r\nill sans - I do think a black sheep has a slightly sad feeling about
    it whereas an enfant terrible is someone you at least don't feel sorry for. But
    at the end of the day I do think these two epithets belong together. Thinking
    of the context of jewelry, however, a black sheep might not be associated with
    color and edgy, bold pieces. This is really hard - I've been working on it for
    weeks and I can't come to a solution I'm happy with. Having said that, all of
    your intelligent and creative opinions and ideas really help. :-)"
  created: '2007-05-21 20:31:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wear. You don't have to be a woman to <cite>make</cite> jewelry.\r\nWell,
    I guess you don't really <cite>have</cite> to be a woman to wear\r\njewelry either,
    but... it's different. And I like differences.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-21 20:42:53'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "I believe Fran\xE7ois Truffaut had a movie by that name. - Les Enfant Terrible.\r\nMy
    favorite scene - a baby tumbling several feet down to the ground, from a 3rd or
    4th floor window - and when he landed on his bottom  (sitting upright) laughing,
    he said, \"Je fai BOOM.\" It was out about 1973-74.\r\n\r\nThat was a enfant terrible
    image I have kept in my head -- forever."
  created: '2007-05-21 20:52:23'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "I like this description from Merriam-Webster: \"2. a usually young and successful
    person who is strikingly unorthodox, innovative, or avant-garde.\" \r\n\r\nAnd
    here's something else I found from a swedish site. Love the picture - I think
    it's an album cover.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/musik_3937.jpg]\r\n\"When
    is someone considered to be an \"enfant terrible\"? Or a \"bad boy\"? What characterizes
    an \"enfant terrible\", what distinguishes a \"bad boy\" from others, from normal
    ones (?!)? Are they within music composers/musicians who go their own way unwaveringly,
    who support their ideas, regardless if others think it amateurish, simplistic,
    bad, eccentric or whatever?\" Steffen Schleiermacher\r\n\r\nApparently this topic
    brings up a lot of opinions/feelings."
  created: '2007-05-21 20:58:21'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "How about a baby's dummy or rattle with horns or punk studs/spikes? It could
    make a nice design for a piece of jewellery too.\r\n\r\n{Edit: FreakBabies03Temp600px.jpg
    removed}\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-21 20:59:36'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I don't think of sheep as particularly sexy (unless you're a lonely shepherd
    I guess) whereas enfant terrible sounds more enticing - to me. I do NOT have negative
    connotations with enfants terribles - as I said earlier, they make life interesting.
    I guess I don't focus on the hissy fits as much as them thumbing their nose at
    convention. \r\n\r\nSo I'd stick with your first instinct, I like it.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I'd love to see the jewelry.\r\n\r\nJon - I read that as \"Steak Babies\" and
    got confused!"
  created: '2007-05-21 21:03:01'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Randy - Another insect is a great idea but I absolutely loathe spiders. But
    finding an insect that is the opposite of the stunningly beautiful and innocent
    butterfly is an interesting idea.\r\n\r\nhrant - It goes without saying that you
    can make jewelry even if you're a man, but you could've meant that it's easier
    to make it if you're a woman - or a woman's jewelry would be more beautiful, creative,
    sensual, delicate, alluring. That is a way to interpret what you said.  "
  created: '2007-05-21 21:09:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "An important aspect of enfants terribles is\r\nthat they piss people off
    for the hell of it.\r\n\r\n> a woman\u2019s jewelry would be more beautiful,\r\n>
    creative, sensual, delicate, alluring.\r\n\r\nI might like to mean that too.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I find spiders much more beautiful than butterflies.\r\nWhich is why I'm a text
    font guy, not a display font guy.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-21 21:10:05'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: 'Patty - Enfant terribles do make life more interesting. I just read that
    they called Katherine Hepburn an enfant terrible. Who could be more representative?
    I have always stood my ground and I have never asked anyone about what to wear
    or what I should buy - I''ve always trusted my own taste and what I like. But
    now I apparently, at least according to all these marketing people and AD:s that
    I have worked with since I started my business, have to start to think about how
    other people perceive things and what kind of message I want to send out and how
    people want to FEEL when they buy something. I think it''s so fake at times but
    I guess I have to play along. So, this is why I began to waver when I got all
    these opinions about how people perceive an enfant terrible. But maybe I have
    to take that into consideration? '
  created: '2007-05-21 21:19:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "An enfant terrible is not introverted at all.\r\nShe tends to care a lot
    about what people think.\r\nHow else could she intentionally piss them off?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-21 21:22:24'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em> I just read that they called Katherine Hepburn an enfant terrible. </em>\r\n\r\nShe
    was certainly acknowledged (both by her and her family) as being a black sheep.
    \ ;-)\r\n\r\n<em>But now I apparently, at least according to all these marketing
    people and AD:s that I have worked with since I started my business, have to start
    to think about how other people perceive things and what kind of message I want
    to send out and how people want to FEEL when they buy something. I think it\u2019s
    so fake at times but I guess I have to play along. So, this is why I began to
    waver when I got all these opinions about how people perceive an enfant terrible.</em>\r\n\r\nTotally
    understandable in wanting to \"do your own thing\" but good marketing means taking
    into account what will result in the most sales.  \r\n\r\nWho can forget when
    Chevrolet wanted to market one of their cars in Mexico but never considered that
    just because English-speaking clients would buy a Nova that in Spanish-speaking
    countries, \"no va\" means \"it doesn't go\"?  \r\n\r\nBig oops there....  ;-) "
  created: '2007-05-21 21:26:00'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Phillipe Starck has been called the "enfant terrible" of the interiors/furniture
    world. I think it has wicked and fun connotations. I like it more than black sheep.
    Although I have a t-shirt that says, "pink sheep of the family" on it. '
  created: '2007-05-21 21:40:47'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "If you're gonna go with a spider it has to be a black widow.\r\n\r\nIt seems
    tho that Linda is the only one voicing negative connotations with enfant terrible.
    Seems like it appeals to most everyone else who's responded."
  created: '2007-05-21 21:43:07'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Linda - I hear you...   :-)  It's just that the whole marketing thing is
    totally new to me. I just want to be creative - the thought of being pushy and
    \"selling\" myself and my jewelry freaks me out! :-)\r\nAnd I am too honest, apparently.
    I wrote an \"About\" text for my website and mentioned living in NYC and not being
    able to work beause I didn't have a working permit, (which actually made me begin
    with the jewelry business in the first place so it was very relevant), but I had
    to take that out because it gave the wrong impression and was too negative. I
    really have to question if people are that gullable? I have also been told that
    my jewelry can't be priced too low?! It's apparently all about the \"feeling\"
    an expensive item gives a person.   :-)\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-21 21:53:09'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>It seems tho that Linda is the only one voicing negative connotations
    with enfant terrible. Seems like it appeals to most everyone else who\u2019s responded.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's
    the editor in me, and I doubt that the audience reading this thread are representative
    of the sort of clients Charlotta is hoping to attract .  :-)  That I'm also working
    to market more of my art, and thus it's a topic I have more than a passing interest
    in, also figures into the mix.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-21 22:16:27'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: Yes, maybe there is a difference between my potential customers and the people
    in this forum. I have sometimes thought that "enfant terrible" might be too pretentious
    for "the average customer".
  created: '2007-05-21 22:34:17'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Depends on the sort of client mix you want to appeal to, I guess.  Pretentious
    people pay more, even though there's fewer of them (well, not here....hahaha).  ;-)
  created: '2007-05-21 22:38:07'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "That's so true...probably me included.   ;-)\r\nI actually do think pretentious
    (perhaps a tad noveau riche) people pay more because they want to - and then go
    and flaunt it.\r\n\r\nJust have to say that I looked at your profile and that
    I am deeply envious of you for having attended Parson's. I was going to study
    interior design there years ago but something got in the way (read boy trouble).
    Ironically enough, I ended up moving to NYC and lived on Fifth ave. at 14th street
    so I pretty much walked by the school on a daily basis. Boo-hoo.  ;-)  But good
    for you! "
  created: '2007-05-21 23:27:09'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "If you remove the wings from most butterflies, you're left with a rather
    disturbing looking bug.\r\n\r\nOf course I wouldn't recommend doing that."
  created: '2007-05-21 23:38:45'
- author:
    name: lherrou
    picture: 111141
  body: "Setting aside the whole enfant terrible thing for a min, I want to bring
    up chocolate. Actually, in response to:\r\n>> Who can forget when Chevrolet wanted
    to market one of their cars in Mexico...\r\n\r\nI wanted to point out that that
    is a long-perpetuated myth. http://www.snopes.com/business/misxlate/nova.asp\r\n\r\nWhen
    it comes to Enfant Terrible, I guess I see it as a bit of an antiquated term,
    and this image comes to mind:\r\nhttp://www.library.pitt.edu/libraries/is/enroom/juvenile/enfant1.jpg\r\nIf
    you are thinking insects still, perhaps the scarab is a good one to juxtapose
    against the butterfly, it's somewhat recognizable, and it's pretty much the opposite
    of the flighty butterfly."
  created: '2007-05-22 01:36:57'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: '{Edit: BabyDummy01a2Temp600px_6486.jpg removed}'
  created: '2007-05-22 05:18:05'
- author:
    name: WeAreLoa
    picture: 128775
  body: Show off.
  created: '2007-05-22 06:48:38'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/EnfantTerrible1_6218.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/EnfantTerrible2_5236.jpg]\r\n\r\n_________\r\nHiro"
  created: '2007-05-22 07:06:29'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Terrifying children\r\nhttp://www.raycaesar.com/friendlyFire/galleriaFF.html\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-05-22 08:48:43'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Lherrou - I like the idea of the scarab, I've always liked the look of them.
    I even made a pendant of a carved scarab once, but will it make sense? Can one
    find a correlation between an enfant terrible and a scarab?\r\n\r\nWormwood -
    That is just brilliant! Maybe there's a future for you \r\nas a jewelry designer?
    \ :-)  A bit too hard core punk/goth for me but put it on a long, thick silver
    chain and I'm sure someone who's into that style would love to wear that around
    the neck. Very wicked.  :-)"
  created: '2007-05-22 09:50:04'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Tim - Very scary images but yet stunningly beautiful. I especially liked
    the one of the two children wearing those little \"hats\" with\r\nhorns. It makes
    me believe that they're not evil children, only dressed up for a masquerade.  \r\n\r\nHiro
    - That's an hilarious picture, but again, it seems most people associate this
    epithet with something that's mostly negative - being loud, obnoxious, bratty
    and provocative in a way that isn't necessarily positive. "
  created: '2007-05-22 09:59:29'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Tim's link reminded me of the work of Mark Ryden, some creepy stuff on his
    site too... http://www.markryden.com/\r\nDon't know if it's on his site, but he
    made a painting of a little boy on a tricycle in a pink Nazi-uniform. Now th\xE0t's
    a horrible child!"
  created: '2007-05-22 10:17:16'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Der Struwwelpeter is one of my favourite (and a great source of my childhood's
    anxieties...) \r\n\"Oh, che schifo quel bambino! \r\n\xC8 Pierino il Porcospino.
    \r\nEgli ha l'unghie smisurate \r\nChe non furon mai tagliate; \r\nI capelli sulla
    testa \r\nGli han formata una foresta \r\nDensa, sporca, puzzolente. \r\nDice
    a lui tutta la gente: \r\nOh, che schifo quel bambino! \r\n\xC8 Pierino il Porcospino.\"
    \r\n\r\netc. etc. thanks, Franz! \r\n\r\nWhat about Calvin (from Calvin & Hobbes)?
    Maybe you can try to find one of his great faces and reduce it to its essence.
    You have to be careful that it doesn't actually remind Calvin toooo much.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hungrycalvin_3560.gif]"
  created: '2007-05-22 13:09:42'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/evilCalvinHobbes_4821.gif]'
  created: '2007-05-22 13:20:07'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Lore - I need the symbol for my jewelry collection so I don't think that
    Calvin will work. Thanks for the suggestion though.  :-)\r\nI looked at your work
    and was very impressed - so beautiful and moving. I especially liked \"Tree\". "
  created: '2007-05-22 14:12:06'
- author:
    name: Thord
  body: How about something similar to the rolling stones logo?
  created: '2007-05-22 14:52:55'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Yeah, pity about Calvin, I understand, it should be something more poetic.\r\nEnfant
    terrible could be associated with \"wild\" I guess, so personally I'm not sure
    about the sheep thing. Even if it's a black one ; )\r\n\r\nMaybe more like a crazy
    horse or any other animal that could have these wild/not tame connotations...or
    what about a whip? Sorry I'm not being very selective today!\r\n\r\nAnd wow, thanks
    for your comments on my stuff, it means a lot to me. : )"
  created: '2007-05-22 15:00:31'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">only dressed up for a masquerade\r\nOh, they probably have tentacles hidden
    somewhere, but evil-lovely, lovely-evil images.\r\n\r\nEnfant Terrible is a term
    that has been thrown about so much that it has lost much of its meaning so all
    the above could be correct, almost defying definition, so here is mine \u2013
    a student/follower who turns on the precepts of his/her mentor, but the title
    is ephemeral and can only be held until the student has students/followers of
    their own, after which it becomes insulting (Damien Hirst, David Carson). \r\nSymbol
    \u2013\_a pram with a tentacle coming out? Ronald Searle\u2019s drawings come
    to mind\r\nhttp://lambiek.net/artists/s/searle_ronald.htm\r\n\r\nTim\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-22 15:05:31'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Lore - Yes, to me an enfant terrible is partly wild. There have been so many
    different interpretations on it which have been really stimulating and interesting
    but I guess I have to stick to my own feeling about what it is. \r\nYour work
    is amazing so, you're welcome! :-)  If I had decided to ask an artist to do my
    logotype - to draw something - I would've wanted something like \"tree\". Not
    too dark and sad, but with the similar poetic feel to it. "
  created: '2007-05-22 15:09:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The obvious thing here for Jewelry would be a cartoon of a girl who is defiant,
    sexually provocative, and laughing at the world--with jewelry. It could work with
    her having horns and a tail, but if the drawing were good enough, it could be
    best without. If you want it to be more chaste, it could  be in a frame with just
    the head, neck and hands in the frame...\r\n\r\nThe ideal I think you want to
    project is a girl who is not obnoxious, but who is defiantly independent, and
    having great fun being so. That's the 'good' enfant terrible. \r\n\r\nHere's an
    example, from Leslie Cabarga's book, 'Logo, Font and Lettering Bible'. He was
    illustrating good drawing. The drawing is by <a href=\"http://www.shaneglines.net/contact/contact.html\">Shane
    Glines</a>. Cabarga says \"You can't be stupid and be able to draw this well.\"\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Shane-Glines-bad-girl_4232.gif]"
  created: '2007-05-22 15:13:37'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "<cite>Enfant Terrible is a term that has been thrown about so much that it
    has lost much of its meaning</cite>\r\n...a bit like avant-garde\r\n\r\n<cite>
    a pram with a tentacle coming out </cite>\r\nsimply brilliant.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-22 15:43:04'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Searle's stuff is absolutely amazing -- Ralph Steadman is also similarly
    warped.  ;-)\r\n\r\n(edit: And Terry Gilliam....)"
  created: '2007-05-22 16:05:44'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: Tim - So one can't be an enfant terrible as a mentor/leader? If you are defiant
    and rebel against your mentor, couldn't you then continue to be an enfant terrible
    although you had followers? But now against someone or something else, society,
    for example? Or am I reading you completely wrong? I can see why it might be ephemeral
    since it's often an epithet applied to younger people and it feels a little sad
    and pathetic to be an old enfant terrible, but why not?  (I know that's not what
    you meant with it being ephemeral). A pram with tentacles? That's certainly interesting.
  created: '2007-05-22 16:10:12'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Thanks Charlotta. I'm glad you liked my 'pacifier terrible'. It might be
    less hardcore if it were made as small earings. I would like to have a go at jewellery
    design someday.\r\n\r\nSorry to be negative but to me 'enfant terrible' is a rather
    tired phrase that I associate with the media hype that surrounded conceptual art
    in the 1990's. The phrase seemed to lose some of it's original meaning and power
    after that. I quite like what it means but just not very keen on the actual words.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    like any phrase borrowed from the French, it can sound pretentious, especially
    when attempting to say it with a French accent or otherwise it can just sound
    clumsy in your own accent.\r\n\r\nMaybe something like 'Voodoo Child' would be
    more timeless and cool?\r\n\r\nHmmm. 'Baby Chrome' just popped in to my mind.
    Strange :)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charlotta
      picture: 112418
    body: "Yes, I've thought about the risk of it sounding too pretentious. But then
      again, pretentious can be provocative and isn't that what I want? At least I
      want the attention. \"Voodoo Child\"? \"Baby Chrome\"?\r\nI definitely think
      there's a future for you as a punk/goth jewelry designer!  :-)  But my collection
      isn't supposed to be scary. Colorful, flamboyant, edgy, bold, but not gothic
      and dark.  ;-)\r\n\r\nI just realised - speaking about languages and the phrases
      and words we borrow from each other - the English language has no noun for gloating.
      We have it in Swedish, and in German it's \"schadenfreude\" and in French it's
      \"joie m\xE9chant\". But why not in English? (But that's a whole different discussion...)"
    created: '2007-05-22 17:05:03'
  created: '2007-05-22 16:40:35'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "<em>But my collection isn\u2019t supposed to be scary. Colorful, flamboyant,
    edgy, bold, but not gothic and dark.</em>\r\n\r\nI thought 'Voodoo Child' was
    quite mainstream in a rock n roll way. Everybody loves Hendrix."
  created: '2007-05-22 17:12:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "A true enfant terrible cannot lead, because she cannot be followed.\r\n\r\nJon,
    <cite>jewelry</cite> is pretentious.\r\n\r\nJust had an idea leading off from
    the S&M pacifier:\r\nWhat about a pacifier with a forked sucking part?\r\nAnd
    I would get Underware to draw it.\r\nhttp://www.underware.nl/site2/index.php3?id1=sauna&id2=detailsdingbats&idbp2=ding-solo.gif#bp2\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charlotta
      picture: 112418
    body: Jewelry is pretentious? Elaborate, please.  :-)
    created: '2007-05-22 17:44:47'
  created: '2007-05-22 17:21:40'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "William - I like your interpretation. It's very similar to my personal feeling
    about what an enfant terrible is.  \"...defiant, sexually provocative, laughing
    at the world \u2014 someone who is defiantly independent, and having great fun
    being so. That\u2019s the \u2018good\u2019 enfant terrible\". And also according
    to Merriam Webster's explanation -  \"...a successful person who is strikingly
    unorthodox, innovative, or avant-garde.\" But to find a figure/symbol/image of
    this to represent a jewelry collection is very, very difficult.\r\nWhat about
    a crooked halo? Is that too meek and clich\xE9? I just don't want the figure to
    look too dark or evil. \r\n\r\nWormwood - I think that \"rock n roll\" isn't mainstream
    in the context of my jewelry collection. (Which is obviously hard for you to figure
    out since you haven't seen it). If the style of my jewelry was more \"rock chick
    meets punk\" it would be an absolutely brilliant idea. But my jewelry are not
    that \"out there\". This collection is for women who aren't afraid to \"stand
    out\" and be a bit colorful, but it's not like I'm using thick chains and leather.
    The pacifier earrings would be the perfect piece for a collection named \"Baby
    Chrome\" or \"Voodoo Child\". \r\n \r\n"
  created: '2007-05-22 17:36:51'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Noooo, I love enfant terrible. Just because it's French it doesn't mean it
    sounds pretentious to the rest of the world.  Maybe this is an American point
    of view and I'm not sure Charlotta wants to conquer the average American. I find
    that using an English word could have a similar effect for some non-English speakers.
    And I don't think jewels are pretentious either. Not sure where this idea comes
    from. Anyway...I'm very opinionated today ; )\r\n\r\nCrooked halo? Sounds intriguing,
    any sketches? I'm kind of in love with the pram thing. And the whip, except that
    the whip might be too erotic but it goes well with the wild/rebellious concept.\r\n\r\nI
    don't think we have an Italian translation for gloating either, we borrow shadenfreude.
    I guess in Europe it's no big deal to use a word in French or German every now
    and then, it doesn't make anyone sound pretentious, just educated. I think.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-22 17:54:54'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "<em>I guess in Europe it\u2019s no big deal to use a word in French or German
    every now and then, it doesn\u2019t make anyone sound pretentious, just educated.
    I think.\r\n</em>\r\n\r\nI'm english, live south of the London metropolis and
    reasonably well educated, but I couldn't say it and keep straight face. Or risk
    getting beaten up for being 'gay'."
  created: '2007-05-22 18:03:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "In English we also use 'schadenfreude', though in some contexts it would
    be pretentious. \r\n\r\nTo me the tentacle thing sounds like a terrible idea--what
    girl wants to look like an octopus? \r\n\r\nThe crooked halo could also work.
    I think the challenge is to hit the right note of being fun and cute--without
    being too cute or childish. A good illustrator hopefully could pull it off. \r\n\r\nThe
    basic concepts of 'social butterfly' and 'enfant terrible' line of jewelery is
    just fabulous. You'd better register the trademark get your jewelery out there
    before a big company steals the ideas. "
  created: '2007-05-22 18:06:22'
- author:
    name: lindsaydurango
    picture: 112554
  body: "cuttlefish mentioned earlier the idea of taking the wings off the butterly.
    I wonder if something along those lines would be a good solution to your problem
    of not wanting to get too dark with the bolder line of jewelry.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    alter your buttlerfly to the point that it is clearly a little \"terrible\"? Horns,
    bold colors, edgy angles on the wings? Then you'd get some consistency with your
    lines, but also say \"this line is different. It's enfant terrible.\""
  created: '2007-05-22 18:07:11'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: 'To develop Lindsay''s idea a bit, what about a moth? '
  created: '2007-05-22 18:10:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I once drew a heart with horns and a wavy tail,\r\na dingbat for my Domination
    Available font:\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/f_dominava.html\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-22 18:24:44'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Rolling Stone is the status quo ... '
  created: '2007-05-22 18:31:44'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "Take a look at the BSD devil:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.freebsd.org/\r\n\r\nThat
    would be something I consider to fit the term :-)"
  created: '2007-05-22 18:40:24'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Sorry Charlotta, i wasn't trying to push you in an unsuitable direction.\r\n\r\nI
    just tried to swap the words enfant and terrible with ones that I thought had
    a similar vibe but were less spoilt brat and were more bold and edgy. Yeah, Voodoo
    Child maybe too much. What about 'Wild Child'?\r\n\r\nBad pun warning: Misschievous?\r\n\r\nAny
    logo could possibly limit the appeal of your brand so maybe consider just using
    a (custom?) type design and let the jewellery do the talking.\r\n\r\nI'm sure
    we would all like to see some of your jewellery collections. Could you post some
    designs here?\r\n\r\nBTW thanks for the inspiration. I may try designing some
    more 'Baby Chrome'. Fancy doing a collaborative collection sometime?\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charlotta
      picture: 112418
    body: "No need to apologise! I just tried to explain. I feel a bit fastidious
      and hard to please with all these brilliant ideas coming in and nothing \"suits\"
      me. That's all.\r\n\r\nI think a collection between us would be very successful!
      :-) If I need to think about designing jewelry in that style, I immediately
      begin to think about several models/designs. It's what I did when I was an interior
      decorator, just get the feel of the clients style and decorate accordingly.
      \   :-)  I'll see if I can find some good enough pictures of a couple of jewelry
      pieces to post. "
    created: '2007-05-22 19:35:38'
  created: '2007-05-22 18:56:53'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Well, as long as we're still open to other suggestions...\r\nHow about birds?
    A swan is the perfect symbol for feminniity  (or is it maybe too Swarovski-like?
    in that case I suggest a flamingo as an alternative) & a parrot has that flamboyant
    (maybe even misschievous, the pirate link) thing to it. Just a thought..."
  created: '2007-05-22 19:10:19'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "It's interesting to see that most suggestions have something to do with the
    devil or being evil and bad.  Tails, horns, tentacles, spiders, bats, and that
    might scare people off. I have to be - although I don't like this - a bit commercial.
    \ :-) \r\n\r\nI just read in a magazine someone who said \"Can't a bad girl be
    a good person?\" and I like that. I have been \"bad\" - wild, flirty, partying
    like crazy, unfaithful, a bit promiscuous, always craving freedom to the point
    of insanity, but I have always been a good person. Not as good as I am today -
    older and wiser - but this is the \r\ndichotomy I am looking for. Maybe an Eve
    luring you with an apple?\r\nBTW - I am European too and I don't get away with
    using French phrases either.   ;-)"
  created: '2007-05-22 19:18:48'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "<cite>what girl wnats to look like an octopus?</cite>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cthulhu_4311.png]"
  created: '2007-05-22 19:33:41'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Nice one, Cuttlefish!
  created: '2007-05-22 19:38:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> that might scare people off.\r\n\r\nOnly somebody who's not an enfant terrible.\r\nOr
    really, somebody who doesn't want to <cite>pretend</cite> she's an enfant terrible.\r\nBecause
    that's what this is all about anyway.\r\n\r\nBTW, Charlotta, please don't feel
    too bad reading this, but I think you have to stop believing you're an enfant
    terrible yourself. That might actually been good news, in terms of seeing your
    ET line more objectively.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-22 19:56:41'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>In English we also use \u2018schadenfreude\u2019, though in some contexts
    it would be pretentious.</cite>\r\n\r\nand then we have to explain what it means.
    I always use Martha Stewart as an example.\r\n\r\nCharlotta - in terms of edgy
    vs goth, enfant terrible vs bad girl, maybe it would help if you could point to
    a celebrity or public figure who you could envision wearing your jewelry, or being
    its spokesperson. While I hate to bow to celeb culture, that might put us all
    on the same page. Are you talking Lindsay Lohan or Courtney Love? Edie Sedgwick
    or Paris Hilton? Blondie? Samantha from Sex & the City? Or none of the above,
    not even close?"
  created: '2007-05-22 20:15:48'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "Madonna's life's work.\r\n\r\nBtw, in my annual report from Aber Diamond
    Corp came images from this guy...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/HarryWinston_6626.jpg]\r\n...that
    crow is marvelous.\r\n\r\nThink about showing your work on different hand gestures
    which are eithered coloured bold and dynamic or left monotone and the background
    of the hand gestures has those 'stepping out' qualities. My middle finger graphic
    could do as a ring finger and cuff links. A peace sgin to show off bracelets or
    watches, etc., etc.\r\n\r\nI think you're after a rock n' roll attitude.\r\n\r\n________\r\nHiro"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charlotta
      picture: 112418
    body: "Hiro - Those pictures are stunning! It makes one feel incredibly small
      looking at jewelry from Harry Winston...  :-)\r\n\r\nI like the butterfly the
      best. It's funny because we initially had a picture of a piece and then the
      AD took an image of exactly that kind of butterfly and cut it in half, putting
      it along one side of the picture. That was really beautiful. Maybe I should
      do that again..."
    created: '2007-05-22 22:33:20'
  created: '2007-05-22 21:15:44'
- author:
    name: kongur
    picture: 112077
  body: "Well the debate is going on strategies of your brand and thorough its conception
    in a multiuser base. :-) Good luck on your designs Charlotte! \r\n\r\nYour \"Black
    Sheep\" reminded me of something: black jeans campaign - an iconic piece of BBH's
    for Levi's with the \"when the world zigs zag\" strapline...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.bbh.co.uk/clientAd.aspx?adId=242\r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-05-22 21:21:45'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: .
  created: '2007-05-22 21:50:04'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: Well, I'm French and "Enfant Terrible" is, even in its language of origin,
    (over)used in the hype musical press to classify edgy artist. I LOVE the pretention/punkness
    of this word, I like "mouton noir" too... After all my name is "Dr. Duckling"
    after the "Ugly Duckling"...
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charlotta
      picture: 112418
    body: 'So how would someone speaking the language describe an enfant terrible?
      There have mostly been kind of "dark" interpretations and suggestions about
      horns, tails, tentacles and sort of "devilish" traits to that image. What do
      you think? '
    created: '2007-05-23 13:57:03'
  created: '2007-05-23 09:33:13'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Patty - I would be happy if anyone would buy and wear my jewelry! :-) But
    if I have to pick celebrities I like (their style, I mean), I would say Jennifer
    Aniston, Halle Berry, Katie Holmes, Michelle Williams, Naomi Watts, Amanda Peet.
    My collections are not outrageous. I picked the names for the collections first
    because I couldn't decide on one style and they were very different. I liked the
    names of the collections. It wasn't like a made such wild, crazy, over the top
    jewelry that I decided to call it Enfant Terrible.\r\n "
  created: '2007-05-23 14:16:53'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">\u201Cdark\u201D interpretations\r\n\r\nMy suggestion of tentacles coming
    from a pram was based on a literal terrible child, because the multiple understandings
    of the meaning don\u2019t allow for one based on <strong>one</strong> meaning
    of the term.\r\n\r\nbtw your interpretation of my definition was correct, my feeling
    is that once an enfant has created an approach/form of working which breaks from
    the established norm, they then have to create a body of work to be <em>promoted</em>
    to the level of a mentor*, in effect one becomes a member of the establishment
    to a degree.\r\n\r\n*(since we already have some french terms I\u2019ll add another)
    alternatively one could become an \xE9minence grise if one still worked out of
    the mainstream and influenced students/disciples. I don\u2019t get beaten up for
    using french and german terms, but then my appearance discourages that.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-05-23 14:45:34'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: ok, then. You win. But I don't think that simply translating enfant terrible
    to English would be a good solution but there you go. Hey, nice pieces Charlotta.
  created: '2007-05-23 15:05:11'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "There\u2019s no competition, my opinion is as invalid as anyone else\u2019s.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-05-23 18:38:42'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Tim - Does that mean that your appearance is as dark (and threatening?) as
    your thoughts?  ;-)\r\n\r\nI most frequently use the French expression/phrase
    \"fait accomplit\" because that's not pretentious and it's a good solid phrase
    and most people understand it. Maybe at times \"joie de vivre\", which actually
    seems to be pretty intergrated in the English language. At least when I lived
    in the US."
  created: '2007-05-23 19:26:38'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: 'Put it like that: It''s ok to use French words (<cite>merde</cite> for example)
    if you say "excuse my French" afterwards.'
  created: '2007-05-23 20:45:08'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Interesting.  Here in Canada, though depending on where you are, you may
    well be talking to someone who understands French.  ;-)  \r\n\r\nMaybe not as
    much here in the \"speak English\" redneck section (although that's changing!),
    but certainly in eastern Ontario, most of New Brunswick, and virtually all of
    Quebec."
  created: '2007-05-23 21:09:59'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "<em>It makes one feel incredibly small looking at jewelry from Harry Winston\u2026
    :-)</em>\r\n\r\nI don't know why they should, if you're referring to the 'rich'
    quality of the images most of that is done in Photoshop using some basic techniques
    like <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High_dynamic_range_imaging\"> HDR</a>
    (High Dynamic Range) or DLP (Digital Light Painting), which are just two of the
    numerous techniques to increase the dynamic range of an image. \r\nWhat I do appreciate
    about those images are the arrangement of the stones and the cut of the rocks
    (rhythmic patterns) of each piece and how they work with the 'model'. \r\n\r\n__________\r\nHiro"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charlotta
      picture: 112418
    body: "Hiro - I meant feeling small in comparison with my jewelry and theirs.
      (I even feels pretentious to call my pieces jewelry at this point).\r\n\r\nI
      understand completely what you mean -  how well the pieces and the cut of the
      stones go together with each model. It's brilliantly done.\r\nI can understand
      why they would think of a peacock and a butterfly in combination with  jewelry,
      but a crow? That's unexpected and yet it turned out so well. "
    created: '2007-05-23 22:54:53'
  created: '2007-05-23 22:02:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What happened to William's post?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-24 00:08:09'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "I'm sorry,  but I'm going to have to second Hrant on his comment on you not
    really being an enfant terrible, Charlotta. It just seems a little out of context
    that an enfant terrible would consider horns, spikes or tentacles as being \"dark\"...\r\nHonoustly,
    if you think a softcore characterisation of the devil is \"dark\", you should
    count yourself lucky you haven't seen any of my work yet ;-)\r\nAnd in that aspect,
    a bl\xE0ck sheep would not really work well to accompany a line of flamboyant
    jewelry.\r\nI perfectly understand that there's more aspects to your character
    than we can tell from this (or any other) thread, but an enfant terrible would
    not really be too concearned about scaring people off, now would she? I mean,
    isn't that really the essence of being an enfant terrible? Provoking & shocking
    people, giving them the finger, sticking your tongue out...\r\nIsn't worrying
    about the name and people's conception of it & the accompanying logo so much a
    bit of a contradiction in all this?"
  created: '2007-05-24 01:49:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I do think that when Charlotta says something like \"I would be happy if
    anyone would buy and wear my jewelry\" she's missing the point of having a sober
    focus concerning the image of her work. On the other hand, you certainly don't
    have to be something to sell stuff to people who are that thing, and what something
    is called isn't all it's about, so it's not like there's a fatal flaw resulting
    from Charlotta's somewhat too chipper perspectives and desires. The key thing
    I think is for Charlotta to be clear about what she is, what her products need
    to be, and how her products should be perceived; to not pretend, even though she's
    the one making the products, that she herself embodies what the products should
    ideally be perceived as being. She is not the customer.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-24 02:14:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hrant, both of my comments are above, at least in my browser.  \r\n\r\nI
    sure don't know much about marketing, but from what I see, selling women's clothes,
    make-up, and jewelery seems to be a lot about fantasy images. \r\n\r\nI think
    Charlotta's names are great because they appeal to fantasy, not because they are
    sociologically accurate, either about her or anybody else. The 'social butterfly'
    is a beauty who flits about without a care. The 'enfant terrible' is also on top
    of it all, in a different way.  \r\n\r\nReal women--and men--are actually way
    more insecure. But you aren't going to sell them something to wear by saying \"This
    is going to show everyone how insecure you really feel\" :) "
  created: '2007-05-24 02:42:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William, I guess I got confused.\r\nDid you splice in the illustration of
    Cabarga's delicious little vixen recently?\r\n\r\nAs I said a while back, I do
    think the naming is brilliant. It's just a shame to see the Enfant Terrible concept
    spayed and neutered - and I suspect this let-down is what prompts people like
    me and Tom to exhibit a negative reaction.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-24 03:24:13'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Let me just state for the record that I am n\xF2t -in any way- trying to
    be negative. I'm just being analytical at this point (after all the different
    interpretations we've read here about what an enfant terrible is, what do you
    expect?) & it strikes me as odd that the things the majority of people here associate
    with a certain term are not shared with the original poster. I encourage sharing
    thoughts & debating, but in this case it just seemed too much of a contradiction.
    Even Charlotta linked being an enfant terrible with rebellion & being independant
    although in naming & chosing a symbol for her jewelry, she seems a little overworried
    to me, but then again, this is indeed maybe more a question about marketing, supply
    & demand & chosing your main target group. However, all the above still applies
    to this since she's trying to attract enfants terribles & will probably have more
    succes in attracting them with a bold statement & dito symbol."
  created: '2007-05-24 09:47:40'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "I begin to apologize for how long this reply is going to be but there have
    been so many comments made about this and about me that I feel a need to answer.
    Sorry.  :-)\r\n\r\nhrant - You tell me that I should stop believing that I'm an
    enfant terrible. Maybe you need a bit more humility in your attitude about this?
    You can't honestly believe that you have the correct answer to what an enfant
    terrible is? So how can you tell me to stop believing that I'm one? \r\nMy personal
    meaning of this phrase is similar to Merriam-Webster's.\r\nA person who is avant-garde,
    innovative, unorthodox and also someone who can have an outrageous behaviour and
    make shocking remarks. I can relate to all of that. I also like to think it's
    a person who is strong, self-confident, courageous, creative, opinionated and
    not afraid to stand up for herself and go her own way. Maybe I am a soft version
    of an enfant terrible, but it's my personal interpration and that's what I feel
    that my enfant terrible collection stands for. \r\n\r\nThe reason why I reject
    all the tentacles, tails, horns and similar kind of images is because they simply
    do not \"match\" my jewelry collection or the design of my logotype and website.
    I simply don't think it's aesthetically appealing with a tongue sticking out,
    with a bat, a spider, or a kid giving you the finger. Has anyone ever considered
    that I just don't think it would look good? I am not\r\n\"overworried\" in choosing
    a symbol, I just don't like the suggestions. An image of a woman - maybe a vixen,
    or Eve with her apple, or a princess with a crooked crown or some kind of animal/insect/bird
    that people can associate with an enfant terrible\r\nwould fit my design and my
    jewelry.\r\n\r\nIll sans - \"...essence of being an enfant terrible? Provoking
    & shocking people, giving them the finger, sticking your tongue out\u2026\"\r\nWhat's
    up with the frickin tongue and giving the finger? That is your opinion of what
    it is and it's so puerile. It has been said of various artists - \"she/he is the
    enfant terrible of the so and so\"- for decades and they're talking about people
    who are not just doing things to shock and disturb and disgust and create a reaction.
    They're talking about Katherine Hepburn, for instance, who was a brilliant actress
    but probably called an enfant terrible because she never married and had children,
    was a mistress to a married man, and voiced her radical opinions. She did not
    live her life according to the norm of that day and age. That is being avant-garde
    and shocking.\r\nYou do not have to put a living gold fish in a mixer and challenging
    people to press the button to be an enfant terrible.\r\n\r\nAccording to you,
    an enfant terrible shouldn't consider the tails, horns etc to be \"dark\" and
    shouldn't be concerned to scare people off. Apparently you also think you have
    the correct interpretation of what this epithet means. First of all, it's about
    taste and what is suitable for my design. And shouldn't I care if I scare people
    off? I am not having an \"happening\" at a gallery where my first goal probably
    would be to shock and stir things up and get a strong reaction (and put that fish
    in the mixer) so that I could get as much attention as possible to feed my artistic
    ego. I am selling jewelry to make money. I can not afford to scare people off,
    so it's a tad relevant to me in this context. I am not on a mission, I am selling
    jewelry. But if I wanted to shock and stir things up it would not be an issue
    for me. I have for years been involved in Greenpeace, Amnesty International and
    PETA. If the context of this was to help animals, for instance, I would go to
    great lengths to shock, provoke, disgust or whatever I would have to do in order
    to get a reaction and bring awareness to the problem. Take a look at PETA's campaign
    against Kentucky Fried Chicken - especially their t-shirt of a dead chicken and
    the text \"Want fries with that?\". I would have absolutely no problem what so
    ever wearing that t-shirt to a black tie dinner if it could help in any way.  \r\n\r\nWhen
    I said \"I would be happy if anyone would buy and wear my jewelry\u201D I apparently
    was \"missing the point of having a sober focus concerning the image of her work\".
    (?!) It was taken out of context. Patty asked me what celebrity I could envision
    wearing my jewelry so that she could get a hint about the style of it. I mentioned
    several actresses and then I made that comment which is true. I have never done
    this before. I LOVE my jewelry but I don't know if other people will and I would
    be very, very happy if anyone would buy and wear it.\r\nPlease, don't turn everything
    I say into some psycho babble that just is so off base that it isn't even funny.\r\n\r\n\"It's
    a shame to see enfant terrible being spayed and neutered?\" (??) And it's a let
    down for you two? Enfant terrible is a phrase that has been used for a long time
    by a number of people all over the world. You do not have the correct answer,
    nor do you have some kind of \"rights\" to the phrase. It has been incredibly
    interesting and stimulating to have this discussion about it in this forum, but
    you two are \"let down\" because everybody don't share your personal interpretation
    of what it means? I respect your opinion about this, why can't you respect what
    other people think? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-24 16:58:22'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "I think I speak for the both of us when I say we d\xF2 respect what other
    people think, but you can't deny the fact that enfant terrible translates to terrible
    child & that in that aspect the majority of responses somehow links this to some
    kind of punk/rock&roll attitude. It's just a matter of doing the math & I'm very
    sorry that you don't seem to be able to do it for yourself. Maybe enfant terrible
    is just not the right kind of name you'd want to associate with your jewelry?
    There are probably not even 2 people in this thread that seem to agree to a definitive
    definition of what an enfant terrible is, but as you stated yourself, most of
    us associate it with things you don't want your jewelry to be associated with.
    But do you really think that  the majority of your potential customers won't make
    the same assumptions when they hear the name? If the Typophile board is at all
    a little representive of our society, you can pretty much guess what people will
    expect from a jewelry line named enfant terrible.\r\nAnd don't worry, your jewelry
    is beautiful enough to sell without a clever name or nice logotype."
  created: '2007-05-24 17:42:19'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "This is what \"enfant terrible\" brings to my mind:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://emilystrange.com\">Emily
    the Strange</a>\r\n\r\nTo reply to some previous comments -- I'm not sure the
    population here at typophile necessarily gives an accurate cross-section of the
    general population, much less of Charlotta's target market. We are a pretty peculiar
    bunch.\r\n\r\nK.\r\n\r\nBTW, I like the pieces. I am curious about how you are
    planning to sell them (online? consignment?). In my experience, the more outrageously
    priced and \"unique\" the piece is, the more you're likely to find some very,
    um, eccentric clients willing to pay your price.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-24 18:34:51'
- author:
    name: lherrou
    picture: 111141
  body: "It does seem that there's a lot of baggage and ambiguity attached to the
    term \"enfant terrible\". Maybe the answer is, rather than searching for a symbolic
    representation for \"enfant terrible\", finding a replacement term for that line
    that is closer to /  more consistent with the image you wish to represent. Maybe
    (based on your mention of the term) \"vixen\" is one such possibility. Anyone
    else picture a svelte curvaceous fox with a 20's cigarette holder in her hand?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-24 19:08:21'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Sorry if I insist but you can't just translate enfant terrible literally.
    In English the meaning would be closer to \"maverick\", as Charlotta accurately
    wrote: someone that doesn't fit it. Forget about the litteral translation, serious,
    you're ruining it. : ) \r\n\r\nIt's not really about a disfunctional child or
    a bolshy little tart or a psychobitch from hell, it's maybe more associated to
    a lifestyle."
  created: '2007-05-24 19:09:40'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Following Kristina\u2019s Emily the Strange post, maybe something along these
    lines is more appropriate? \r\nhttp://www.devicefonts.co.uk/cgi-bin/device2.cgi?action=bigpic&pic=logos/fierce-angel.png\r\n\r\nMaverick
    doesn\u2019t quite translate it for me \u2013 there is a relationship between
    the enfant and the mainstream to be considered.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-05-24 19:28:44'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Exactly, <cite>l'enfant</cite> is not the mainstream.\r\nI found the fierce
    angel image a bit too pop, the essence of enfant terrible should be more intriguing,
    more..ouch-I-haven't-seen-that-coming kind of thing, more controversial, which
    is why I liked the pram+tentacle solution, because it creates a contrast, nobody
    expect something horrible coming out of a cute little pram. It's the contrast
    I like, that's why the crooked halo could work and the chrome object that Jon
    Greenslade posted (genius). \r\n\r\nLet's face it: the fierce angel logo is just
    another pretty girl (a bit on the goth side if you like) with wings and halo,
    what's controversial about that?"
  created: '2007-05-24 19:41:50'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Ill sans - \"It\u2019s just a matter of doing the math & I\u2019m very sorry
    that you don\u2019t seem to be able to do it for yourself.\" \r\nWell, I have
    to give you credit for being incredibly condescending.\r\nYou seem like a very
    smart man but for some reason you do not get what I have been trying to convey
    several times now - you don't have the correct answer to what this means - nor
    do I or anyone else - therefore it is a personal interpretation and mine is being
    \ a strong, irreverent, unorthodox, avant-garde, provocative and courageous person
    who isn't afraid of going her own way.\r\n\r\nThis phrase originates from the
    18th century and stems from a child who spoke openly and naively about things
    he had seen and heard, embarrassing the grown ups around him in doing so. This
    is what children do before they are taught the rules of society and how to behave.
    Obviously this epithet has evolved since then and rarely has something to do with
    age or being a child. If you want to be literal and go back to its orginial meaning
    I can certainly understand why you would pick an image of a brat sticking his
    tongue out, but that is not the way I see it. Why can't it just be a grown up
    who refuses to abide by the rules of society and who isn't afraid of being irreverant
    and strong and say her piece? And why does it have anything to do with punk/rock&roll?
    And why does it have to be represented by darkness, evil, tails, and something
    demonic? I never thought I would use this horrendous phrase, but maybe you should
    start to \"think outside the box\"?   ;-)\r\n\r\nAs far as my potential customers
    go I think the majority probably won't know what an enfant terrible is. Or they'll
    translate it as the black sheep. They might think the name is hip or cool but
    I don't think they're going to mind that much. And the risk of \"real enfant terribles\"
    (like someone said) not wanting to buy jewelry from that collection because they
    can't identify with it, is very slim.\r\n\r\nThank you for the compliment about
    my jewelry - I hope it was sincere!\r\n:-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-24 19:50:11'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Kristina Drake - Thank you! This is the first time ever people outside the
    circle of my friends and family have seen my jewelry so it makes me very happy.
    :-) I'm selling it on a website that we're working on now. Hopefully it will be
    ready by the weekend.\r\n\r\nLherrou - Can you find an image of that fox for me?
    :-) And thank you for the help with the Perla thing.\r\n\r\nLore - I mentioned
    an angel with a crooked halo!  :-) Just haven't found an image yet. I can't draw,
    that's a huge problem."
  created: '2007-05-24 19:57:58'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "I am very sorry to defend my opinion again here, but I promise this will
    be my last post on the matter.\r\nCharlotte, this is an open forum where people
    are asked to give their views and opinions. You raised the question of how we
    interprete an enfant terrible & well, by doing so you run the risk of coming across
    a few comments you might not have liked. But if you can't stand the heat, stay
    out of the kitchen.\r\nAs for my interpretation, I just think the name enfant
    terrible is not in place with your jewelry and the ideas you're trying to convey
    which BTW has nothing to do with its literal translation (I just mentioned that
    to illustrate how people who are not familiar with the term, but who do speak
    a little French might interprete it). The reason of this entire site is to try
    and help people who ask to be helped and I strongly believe you've chosen an unlucky
    name & by saying so I am only trying to help you. This is merely my advice to
    you and what you do with it is still up to you. It may not be what you wanted
    to hear, but (good) \"advice\" (and I use the term very loosely here) hardly ever
    is. The fact that I react to your response does not necessarely make me stubborn
    or not openminded. It only tells you I am very convinced of my view (as are you)
    and am only trying to defend myself and my opinions which I am entitled to and
    which you asked for. I've said this before, but I'll say it again; it is NOT -in
    any way- a personal offense to you, just a conflict of ideas.\r\nAnd yes, my compliment
    was sincere. Sure, I'm a man, so what the hell do I know about jewelry? But I
    honestly thinks it looks very good & I can definitely see women wearing them.
    I'm positive these babies will sell themselves even without an accomying name
    or logo."
  created: '2007-05-24 20:11:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "This is bad for you as it is not 'hip' at all, but it might give you ideas...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/devil-crooked-halo_4473.gif]\r\n\r\n[from
    decaljunky.com]\r\n\r\nYou already know this, but you will have to pay a good
    illustrator to get quality work..."
  created: '2007-05-24 20:15:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Charlotta, don't get angry. Grow.\r\nFor one thing, I think many of the things
    you think you are are most probably accurate. Just not all of them. Same with
    me BTW, but I try not to lash out at people who point out my \"flaws\" (which
    in this case might not even be one with you).\r\n\r\n> how can you tell me to
    stop believing that I\u2019m one?\r\n\r\nIt's quite simple: you don't seem to
    fit my own definition of the term (and I'm not alone). Which is not to say my
    own definition is \"correct\", but I'm the sort of person who's not a slave to
    dictionaries. And of course you can have your own definition. But the main thing
    I was getting at is that it's not your definition or mine that matters - it's
    your prospective customers' definition, and neither you nor I qualify.\r\n\r\n>
    they simply do not \u201Cmatch\u201D my jewelry collection or the design\r\n\r\nThat's
    totally fine, and I might even agree. But the point is, that might mean \"Enfant
    Terrible\" is not a suitable name after all. I liked the name because of what
    I thought your work would be like - but maybe I was being too optimistic.\r\n\r\n>
    They\u2019re talking about Katherine Hepburn\r\n\r\nWhich is totally ludicrous.\r\nA
    lot of people (especially entertainment writers) use\r\nterms -especially French
    ones- just so they sound cool.\r\nThe question is, what do your prospective customers
    think?\r\nHey, maybe you should do a survey?\r\n\r\n> I can not afford to scare
    people off\r\n\r\nI'm not so sure. Maybe you can't afford to leave them luke-warm?\r\nHere's
    some French for you: Dieu vomit les tiedes.\r\n\r\n> And it\u2019s a let down
    for you two?\r\n\r\nYes, I prefer things keep their genitalia.\r\nSurely a PeTA
    person can appreciate that.\r\n\r\n> Why can\u2019t it just be a grown up who\r\n>
    refuses to abide by the rules of society\r\n\r\nSurely you must realize that your
    \"I can not afford\r\nto scare people off\" isn't exactly jibing with that.\r\n\r\n>
    the majority probably won\u2019t know what an enfant terrible is.\r\n\r\nThen
    you should not use it. But I actually think\r\nthey do. And it doesn't match what
    you think it is.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-24 21:05:21'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "I have skimmed through a lot of this but why not just use a wordmark and
    let people imagine what it means themselves?  Since the name is so evocative,
    I think this is the way I would go.  \r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2007-05-24 21:31:14'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "I think Sharon is on to something.\r\nBTW, Kristina:\r\n\"We are a pretty
    peculiar bunch\", thanks! ;-)"
  created: '2007-05-24 23:03:32'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Ill sans - Yes, I asked for advice in this forum and I have had a great time
    reading all comments and ideas from a group of incredibly talented and creative
    people - you included. Why would I be afraid of opinions I don't like? I believe
    that it's a good name for one of my collections, so I honestly wouldn't care if
    every single person in this forum tells me it isn't. When I feel inside that it's
    right I don't budge and I have never fallen for peer pressure either. You are
    entitled to feel that I have picked the wrong name but I never asked your opinion
    about that. \r\n\r\nIf I have sounded too insecure or \"concerned\" it's mainly
    because I've tried to be diplomatic. (Which of course is a big no-no if you want
    to be an enfant terrible). If I were a client and I paid for your time I would
    be as clear and categorical as I am to people who know me. I immediately know
    when something is right as easily as I know that it's wrong. But I am in a forum
    with all these really nice people who are trying to help me - why should I be
    rude and brutally honest to them? \r\n\r\nYou emphasized that this is not personal
    but when you and hrant started to talk about how I should stop believing that
    I was an enfant terrible and talked about my \"chipper\" attitude, and how I couldn't
    \"do the math\" and figure things out on my own and other pleasantries, I think
    most people would agree that it got a bit personal. The good thing is that I don't
    care.\r\n\r\nAnd as far as getting out of the kitchen? I have never backed out
    on a discussion and I have never taken it to a personal and unpleasant level.
    \"If you can't stand the heat get out of the kitchen\"? Give me a break! I have
    done nothing but stood my ground and defended my opinions to you and hrant and
    I haven't been scared off or backed down or converted to your opinions, so what
    heat is it that I can't stand? This is YOUR last comment so I guess you're the
    one who can't stand it?\r\n\r\nIt's a forum where people can be helped - but do
    they have to agree with you as well?  \r\n"
  created: '2007-05-24 23:06:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Charlotta, you have trouble handling criticism. Know that Typophile\r\nis
    not the typical idiotic nicey-nicey internet space. Try Flickr.\r\n\r\n> I\u2019ve
    tried to be diplomatic. (Which of course is\r\n> a big no-no if you want to be
    an enfant terrible).\r\n\r\nBingo.\r\nExcept more than what you want, it's what
    you <cite>are</cite> that matters.\r\n\r\n> I think most people would agree that
    it got a bit personal.\r\n\r\nWe are, after all, people.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charlotta
      picture: 112418
    body: "hrant - That was one of the biggest projections I have ever experienced
      in my life. I have problems with criticism? Fine, if you call standing my ground
      and not waver and having to defend my opinions for having problems with criticism
      than I have huge problems.\r\nAnd what about you - in all your humility - do
      you think you handle criticism well? It's going to be very exciting to see when
      you've read my last reply.\r\n\r\nApparently, I'm not the only one having problems
      with you, I was adviced how to handle you long ago by someone at this forum.
      I did exactly the opposite and that's what I'll continue to do so bring it on
      if it makes you feel better. Got to dash! :-)"
    created: '2007-05-25 00:33:31'
  created: '2007-05-24 23:12:33'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "> \"I think many of the things you think you are are most probably accurate.
    Just not all of them.\"\r\n\r\nThat comment is so pompous and condescending that
    it's almost laughable. So you're giving back, I think everyone understands that.
    \r\n(Especially the women). Very mature of you.\r\n\r\nThis is the last thing
    I say to you about enfant terrible - people are going to buy my jewelry or not
    based on whether they like it or not, not because of the name! You take it so
    seriously with your long rants about the meaning of it and bla bla bla that it
    just sounds pretentious and embarrassing.\r\n\r\nAnd here's what I think it comes
    down to: I don't agree with you and your partner in crime (ill sans?), and I have
    the audacity to still stand up and defend myself AND on top of everything criticize
    and question you.\r\nI am a woman so what do you do? (And this is classic). You
    talk to me in a patronizing and unfriendly way. You tell me that you know who
    I am but I probably don't know that myself. You accuse me of being \"angry\" and
    \"lashing out\" when I have done nothing more - in fact less - than what you and
    the other guy have done, except for the fact that I didn't begin to be nasty.
    (And I think most people who read our communication perceive your remarks as lashing
    out at me). The only problem is that it isn't working on me. No one has ever managed
    to bully me or make me back down. You have just proven to be a very pretentious
    man with zero humility and probably big cracks in your self-confidence. My opinions
    and the fact that you couldn't make me think like you were apparently a big bruise
    to your male ego. Get over yourself - this was supposed to be a fun thing. You're
    not on a mission trying to convert people to your beliefs.\r\n\r\nAnd here's something
    I want to share with you that I have learned in life; (and remember, don't be
    angry now. Grow.) A happy, self-secure, harmonious, self-confident person with
    a lot of insight in him- or herself do not talk to people like you do. It's just
    unpleasant and you have participated in ruining a really fun, interesting and
    stimulating discussion with a nasty attitude. "
  created: '2007-05-25 00:22:55'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "Back to the name and the symbol... I think Sharon (amI remembering right?)
    Has the right idea, too. My problem with using a black sheep (not that it sounded
    like you were really into it) is that it is somewhat like a mixed metaphor, \"black
    sheep\" having its own meaning and interpretations. Similarly with any other symbol,
    precisely because (as we see in this thread) specific definitions of \"enfant
    terrible\" vary; it might be best to go with the name and let it conjure whatever
    image the prospective client associates with the term. It is catchy and funky
    and has a certain attitude that people will probably find appealing without an
    added image. The word mark could be embellished.\r\n\r\nJust my two cents, coming
    from the side of the fence that doesn't really care what the term literally or
    otherwise means exactly. I think it sounds cool and catchy. Am I pretentious?
    I'd buy something from a line called \"enfant terrible\" if I saw something in
    it that also fit with my style.\r\n\r\nK. "
  created: '2007-05-25 00:54:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Charlotta, you're reading into what I write whatever makes you feel better
    about yourself. You've been here just over a month-and-a-half; if you think anything
    can be \"long ago\" for you here, we have less in common that I might have thought.
    Your convenient assumptions about me might be safe to make in the types of places
    you frequent, but they are incorrect in my case. I am unlikley to be comparable
    to anybody you know. For one thing you have no idea how thick my skin is; if you're
    excited to see my reaction to what you've written, I'm sorry to disappoint. And
    if you think I'm praying on you (because of your opinions, or really any reason)
    you have me mistaken for somebody who cares a lot about you and what you think
    (<cite>even though</cite> you're a woman). If you doubt any of this please ask
    like a half dozen women who are long-timers here. And I don't mean the feminazi
    one.\r\n\r\nIn short: Your gender is not a problem; your bull-headedness is.\r\nBTW,
    bull-headed does not equate to enfant terrible.\r\n\r\n> people are going to buy
    my jewelry or not based on\r\n> whether they like it or not, not because of the
    name!\r\n\r\nYou are fooling yourself. You're smart enough to know\r\nthat everything
    matters, not least what something is called.\r\n\r\n> That was one of the biggest
    projections I have ever experienced in my life.\r\n\r\nI'm happy for you, but
    I'm not impressed.\r\n\r\n> Got to dash!\r\n\r\nYou'll be back.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nIf
    your emotional fallout from this argument further impedes\r\nyour ability to assimilate
    criticism, that would be a sad loss for you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-25 01:11:01'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ET_MiddleFinger_5594.jpg]\r\n\r\nNotice
    the ring on her right hand, bold stone and silver wire ring, replete with an enfant
    terrible attitude? This image comes from <a href=\"http://www.thehundreds.com/wordpress/?p=1620\">Tens</a>.\r\n\r\nIn
    the world of fashion my man McQueen is it, Galliano somewhat and Versace only
    on his best day (RIP). On canvas Jean-Michel Basquiat.  \r\n\r\nhrant post of
    Romany http://typophile.com/node/32111 is a great example of a type 'stepping
    out'. Look at that cap 'E', and the lc 'h' still knocks me over.\r\n\r\n__________\r\nHiro\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-25 03:28:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "As they exclaim with enviable impunity at the\r\nWestminster Dog Show: that's
    one fine bitch.\r\n\r\nBTW, I found my horn\xE9d, caudate heart, and to my great
    surprise it has a cross\r\nin it as well! Clearly, for an extra dimension of duplicity,
    that opium of the soul.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DominAva-Heart_5211.gif]\r\n\r\nIf
    anybody ever launches a jewelry line called Sister Succubus, let's talk.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-25 05:50:24'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I am emailing from abroad so I can't post pix but I just saw a great ad campaign
    for a jewelry store in Paris where they took classic art masterpieces - Botticelli's
    Birth of Venus, Gauguin Tahitian women, Degas dancers, the like and very artfully
    photoshopped in models and jewelry. I'll post images if you like when I get home.\r\n\r\nCharlotta
    - having skimmed the above, I say let it roll off ya, stick with your instincts.
    I like the name enfant terrible altho I can't say Katie Holmes strikes me as such
    (she's more like the pathetic puppet) and your jewelry is beautiful. It may be
    that a wordmark is the safest way to go, as someone above suggested."
  created: '2007-05-25 09:20:48'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Pearlstreet - Yes, I've been thinking about not using an image because nothing
    feels right.\r\n\r\nKristina Drake - I agree. It's absolutely a mixed metaphor
    with the enfant terrible and the black sheep, but that was the only thing I initially
    could come up with and why I turned to this forum for help.\r\nAny suggestions
    for embellishing a word mark?\r\n\r\nHiro - I love that font - I might've considered
    it if I hadn't found Perla. I'm using Perla alternate as part of my logo.\r\n\r\nPatty
    - Thanks for that!  :-) I would love to see that ad campaign!\r\nDo you know the
    name of the jewelry store? Could it be Mauboussin?\r\nThe reason I mentioned Katie
    Holmes is because I love what she's wearing (clothes). But \"pathetic puppet\"
    feels like an approriate comment when you look at her charisma these days. Which
    is sad because she seems to be a sweet girl. "
  created: '2007-05-25 10:52:13'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "I didn't back down as you conceive it... Lore reminded me that this is an
    open forum to everyone on Typophile & it should not end in a (non*) personal duel
    which I can imagine would get quite tiresome to the rest of the forum here. Out
    of respect for my fellow Typophilers (you included), I've decided to give it a
    rest, not because I feel at all threatened by anything you've said so far. That
    having said, I honestly have to admit that I enjoy seeing other people haven't.
    With Lore's blessings I would be glad to join in again ;-)\r\n\r\n* interprete
    either which way you want"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charlotta
      picture: 112418
    body: "Ill sans - That makes me glad.  :-)  I never wanted this to turn into an
      ugly debate - which it is now between hrant and me. \r\n\r\nBut please understand,
      if people - and I don't care whoever it is - begin (what I perceived) to attack
      me and making it personal and talking to me in an condescending way, I'm going
      to stand up for myself and defend how I feel and think. And even if hrant didn't
      want to admit (and I might be wrong about that as well) that the attitude from
      men often gets more patronizing toward women in a heated debate, that's how
      I honestly feel.\r\n\r\nI respect every single person in this forum that I have
      come across and I have been amazed at the level of creativity and intelligence.
      I never wanted anything like this. I just wanted to be inspired and learn things
      that is completely new to me. But having said that, I am a designer and I do
      have a very clear vision of what I like and dislike. Like everybody in this
      forum, I assume.  :-)\r\n\r\nJust a question - you said you enjoy seeing that
      other people haven't felt threatened by me? Why should they? I have had nothing
      but very pleasant interactions with everyone in this forum except for you and
      hrant. And I'm sorry about that - even if I have to stand up for myself I deeply
      dislike not being friendly and kind."
    created: '2007-05-25 12:08:21'
  created: '2007-05-25 10:55:03'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: ">Charlotta, you\u2019re reading into what I write whatever makes you feel
    better about yourself. \r\n\r\nI feel so good about myself without any help from
    you. And trust me, nothing you've said in your last few replies makes me feel
    good.\r\n\r\n>You\u2019ve been here just over a month-and-a-half; if you think
    anything can be \u201Clong ago\u201D for you here...\r\n\r\nFirst off, you most
    be one of the most belligerent people I have ever met if you bring up a tiny little
    thing like that. I knew when I wrote it that it might be misunderstood but I wrote
    \"long ago\" - meaning, that I was adviced about you before things began to get
    personal and unpleasant. \r\n\r\n>Your convenient assumptions about me might be
    safe to make in the types of places you frequent, but they are incorrect in my
    case.\r\n\r\nConvenient assumptions is an interesting choice of words for someone
    who's told me categorically that he knows me better than I know myself. And pray
    tell, what \"places\" to I frequent?  Oh, yes, \"Typophile isn't the idiotic nicey-nicey
    internet space\". Well, first of all, I don't frequent any other internet space
    and I only became a member here because I am working with my website and a lot
    of things are completely new to me. And I am sorry to disappoint you, but I don't
    feel threatened by Typophile or the members here. I am humble enough to admit
    that I need help and smart enough to hold my own in a discussion. Unless you haven't
    noticed.\r\n\r\n>I am unlikley to be comparable to anybody you know.\r\n\r\nAnd
    are you assuming things about me again? What kind of people do I know? \r\n\r\n>...you
    have me mistaken for somebody who cares a lot about you and what you think.\r\n\r\nYou
    obviously don't care about me but I think you care about what I think - why else
    have you been turning yourself inside out to try to make me think like you? \r\n\r\n>If
    you doubt any of this please ask like a half dozen women who are long-timers here.
    And I don\u2019t mean the feminazi one.\r\n\r\nFeminazi? I guess that word could
    confirm what I said about you and your attitude about women last night, but I
    am not going to assume that since I don't know what it means.\r\n\r\n>Your gender
    is not a problem; your bull-headedness is.\r\n\r\nIn what way am I bull-headed?
    Could it be because I stand up for my opinions which you don't agree with? \r\n\r\n>You
    are fooling yourself. You\u2019re smart enough to know\r\nthat everything matters,
    not least what something is called.\r\n\r\nYou might be absolutely right. I am
    not good at marketing and I might underestimate the importance of the whole \"selling
    the product\" thing. Time will tell. It's going to be trial and error like everything
    else in my life. That the way one learns.\r\n\r\nI had to dash, but of course,
    I'll be back - if only to have yet another encounter with you in this forum.  ;-)
    \ But it was after 1 AM and I had to go to bed.\r\n\r\n>If your emotional fallout
    from this argument further impedes\r\nyour ability to assimilate criticism, that
    would be a sad loss for you.\r\n\r\nWell, I might've had a big problem dealing
    with criticism when I was 20, 21, but I am older and wiser now and I have no problem
    with that.\r\nI know that's the easiest way for people like you to take a cheap
    shot at someone they feel threatened/provoked (?) by. But again, it's not working.\r\n\r\nAnd
    listen, if you even have the energy to reply to this message, you'll going to
    defend my last remark about feeling threatened - and I don't mean intellectually
    threatened, obviously. But what else is going on here? I think you are a very
    intelligent, articulate man and I also believe that you are very creative, but
    you started this. You took this to another level and made it personal against
    me. Why? Let me have my opinion on what an enfant terrible is, I will certainly
    let you have yours. And I have never said that I am one - I simply mentioned in
    my first comments that I could IDENTIFY with the traits that is my own PERSONAL
    interpretation of this. Why can't you just let me think and feel that way? You
    questioning that is what started this whole thing to begin with. Can we end it
    now, please?\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n\r\n   \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-25 11:58:08'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Perla alternate lowercase cries out for tentacles, but the client is right,
    you could look in the direction of damaging its elegant appearance \u2013 iconoclasm.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-05-25 12:19:34'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: To answer your question, I didn't assume anyone to be threatened by you. I
    merely meant that I respect that someone might have a different opinion on this
    thread and does not cave under peer pressure (like I have if you will) to let
    this thread end in a duel. It is an open forum & everybody on Typophile that starts
    a thread opens the gates to responses & like I said before, those may not be the
    ones one had hoped for. I simply respect Lore's opinion that it has indeed -probably
    not only for her-  taken a unpleasant route. And since I am not out to hurt or
    annoy anyone here (I like Typophile & want to remain a member for years to come),
    I have stepped down. For that reason and that reason alone, I have no further
    comments on the debate that has been going on for a while now. I don't think either
    Hrant or me were ever out to take a cheap shot at anyone. We simply disagree with
    you & have only tried to help you by saying so. Sure, we may have used the wrong
    words here and there, but then again, that's what happens in heated debates. My
    gender nor my opinion about women (if I even have one) had nothing to do with
    that. I respect people regardless their gender, colour, beliefs,... I don't think
    that -at any point- this was a clash between the sexes, simply a disagreement.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charlotta
      picture: 112418
    body: "Ill sans - If one caves under peer pressure one lets it end in a duel?
      I thought it was the other way around? It became a \"duel\" between me and hrant
      (and you) simply because I didn't cave under peer pressure and started to agree
      with your opinions. If there's one thing we can agree on can it at least be
      that? Because if there's any remark that I have made that was nasty, sarcastic,
      rude or negative - that started this thing - please point that out to me and
      I will apologize.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2007-05-25 20:23:15'
  created: '2007-05-25 13:13:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Charlotta, you\u2019re not reading what I write.\r\n\r\n> someone who\u2019s
    told me categorically that\r\n> he knows me better than I know myself.\r\n\r\nUntrue.\r\nI
    have simply made an observation based on what I\u2019ve seen, and you don\u2019t
    like it and/or the fact that I made a personal observation about you at all. Well,
    like I said before (although you failed to take it in) I believe that because
    we are people this type of thing is inescapable and even useful. If this violates
    your personal social rules, then I would say: welcome to this reality!\r\n\r\n>
    I don\u2019t frequent any other internet space\r\n\r\nThat explains your difficulty
    with criticism. It\u2019s quite a different world compared to your physical reality.
    The virtual nature of the internet enables new levels of candor. Leverage it.\r\n\r\n>
    Feminazi? I guess that word could confirm what\r\n> I said about you and your
    attitude about women\r\n\r\nPardom me if I think there are all kinds of women.\r\nYou
    on the other hand seem to think there are only\r\ntwo kinds of men.\r\n\r\nBy
    twisting my use of \"feminazi\" into a convenient weapon\r\nyou're being opportunistic,
    manipulative and/or dense.\r\nUnless it's distinctly the latter, you're increasingly\r\nseeming
    to me like not at all a nice person after all.\r\nNote: this does not qualify
    you as an enfant terrible!\r\n\r\n> And I am sorry to disappoint you, but I don\u2019t\r\n>
    feel threatened by Typophile or the members here.\r\n\r\nWhat makes you think
    I thought/wanted that?\r\nThat's actually a rhetorical question...\r\n\r\n> I
    think you care about what I think - why else have you been\r\n> turning yourself
    inside out to try to make me think like you?\r\n\r\nI care about what you think
    too little for that to be the\r\nreason for the nature of my behavior here. This
    is how\r\nI am - ask around. It has very little to do with you.\r\n\r\n> In what
    way am I bull-headed?\r\n\r\nSeemingly every way possible.\r\nHeck, you didn't
    even take the feminazi's advice!\r\n\r\nPlease tell me exactly what bit of advice
    of any kind\r\nyou've actually taken away from this thread so far?\r\n\r\n> It\u2019s
    going to be trial and error like everything\r\n> else in my life. That the way
    one learns.\r\n\r\nOne learns in a number of ways. Like listening to others.\r\n\r\n>
    But what else is going on here?\r\n\r\nAll kinds of things you\u2019ve never encountered\r\nbefore,
    that you might never even dream of.\r\n\r\n> I have never said that I am one\r\n\r\nUntrue.
    You've conveniently completely forgotten\r\nthe previous arguments, including
    the potentially\r\nfruitful discussion concerning definitions versus\r\nthe reality
    of your prospective customers. And all\r\nyour anger is coming from my calling
    your bluff.\r\nBut I do so only to: help; and express my opinions.\r\n\r\n> an
    ugly debate - which it is now between hrant and me.\r\n\r\nAs we\u2019ve already
    established, we find different things ugly.\r\nAnd concerning your polarization:\r\n\r\n>
    I have had nothing but very pleasant interactions\r\n> with everyone in this forum
    except for you and hrant.\r\n\r\nYou\u2019re drawing lines between people\u2019s
    behavior\r\nin a highly aritificial and self-serving way.\r\n\r\nJudging from
    the opinions and graphics concerning \"enfant terrible\" that I've seen in this
    thread you can be pretty sure that a number of people have simply given up on
    you, or at least helping you in this thread. Their silence does not imply agreement,
    and certainly not respect.\r\n\r\nSuch polarization will only serve to confuse
    you in the long term.\r\n\r\n\u2014\r\n\r\nCharlotta, you\u2019re making things
    up as needed. Furthermore,\r\nyour total lack of self-doubt concerning what kind
    of person\r\nyou think I am is unintelligent and reckless. All this is highly\r\nannoying
    and wasteful - but possibly necessary in terms of\r\nyour development as a member
    of the internet, in particular\r\nas a member of Typophile.\r\n\r\nCondascending?
    Whatever.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charlotta
      picture: 112418
    body: "First of all, I sincerely apologize for this perpetual \"duel\" which most
      be incredibly tiresome for all of you participating in this thread. This is
      my last comment to hrant though. \r\n\r\nhrant - >It\u2019s quite a different
      world compared to your physical reality. The virtual nature of the internet
      enables new levels of candor. \r\n\r\nYes, of course internet enables \"new
      levels of candor\". You can be completely anonymous and say whatever comes to
      mind. And if you're nasty and insulting you never have to take the consequences
      for people's reactions like you have IRL. It takes a lot more strength and courage
      to stand face to face to someone and criticize them in the physical world.\r\n\r\n>
      Pardon me if I think there are all kinds of women. By twisting my use of \u201Cfeminazi\u201D
      into a convenient weapon you\u2019re being opportunistic, manipulative and/or
      dense. Unless it\u2019s distinctly the latter, you\u2019re increasingly seeming
      to me like not at all a nice person after all.\r\n\r\nAre there any women in
      this forum who isn't laughing out loud right now if they read that? What a feeble
      attempt to get away from the fact that you're using a derogatory word for women.
      You try to make me look bad, hiding behind your nasty accusations. If you are
      going to use a word as feminazi, at least have the balls to stand up for the
      true meaning of it. And BTW, there were men as well who gave me advice about
      you - can they be feminazis too? \r\n\r\nWhat advice have I taken in this forum?
      I have accumulated a ton of information and knowledge about everyhting from
      marketing, pricing, potential customers, fonts, images and branding. I have
      also found a brilliant designer that I want to do some work for me because I
      love what she is doing. I feel truly humbled among all these talented people
      who are skilled at things that I have zero knowledge about.\r\n\r\n> And all
      your anger is coming from my calling your bluff.\r\n\r\nWhat bluff is that?
      No, I take that back, I shouldn't ask you any more questions or make any more
      comments on you because there is no end to this. I understand that now. You're
      apparently the type of person who thrives on bickering and someone who'll never
      admit to having any flaws. It does not matter what I say you're going to continue
      to blab on about how I don't know myself, how I can't handle criticism, and
      that I am a bluff. (?) Or whatever else you can come up with that you think
      is going to break me down. Give up now because that is never going to happen.
      (And BTW I have read through everything you and I have said to each other and
      I can't see that I have changed my mind when it has been convenient to me and
      I have\r\ncertainly not made things up. And trying to make me feel that people
      don't like me around here and have giving up on helping me and don't respect
      me, is just another way for a bully to try to make me feel unwanted and beaten
      down. It is so sad.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2007-05-26 00:24:55'
  created: '2007-05-25 15:10:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I like the idea of a word mark only. \r\n\r\nIt occurred to me that you could
    jazz up a word mark a bit because of the middle letters in Social Butterfly and
    Enfant Terrible. The 'B' looks a bit like a butterfly, and could be modified to
    suggest one explicitly. And the top of a swash T could have a hint of a devil's
    tail--the swashed arrow terminal. In both the middle letters could be a different
    color and voil\xE0! \r\n\r\nBy the way <a href=\"http://www.bantjes.com/\">Marian
    Bantjes</a> could do a version that would just be mind-blowingly good. I don't
    know if you can afford her, but she might like the project, if she likes your
    jewelry :) "
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charlotta
      picture: 112418
    body: "William - I've been thinking about the B and a butterfly but the problem
      is, I am not a graphic designer. And nope, can't afford to hire anyone right
      now - all money goes to semi-precious stones and other materials for the jewelry.
      I could have someone pick out some jewelry but then they obviously had to like
      it.  :-)\r\nSeriously, if I begin to make money on this I would love to go to
      a graphic designer and just have someone do the whole thing. \r\nI don't know
      of Marian Bantjes but I'll look at her work."
    created: '2007-05-26 10:52:35'
  created: '2007-05-25 15:13:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Hiro - I love that font\r\n\r\n<cite>That wasn't the point of his post,
    and you know it.</cite>\r\nThis extreme degree of \"diplomacy\" is counter-productive,
    and perhaps\r\nan indication of wanting to draw partisans in a time of perceived
    need.\r\nBut this is not a war, it's an opportunity. And by deflecting the subtext\r\n(and
    sometimes the main text!) of people like Hiro you're wasting it.\r\n\r\nThe least
    you can do is ignore, like you\r\nnicely did with my first bluff-calling post.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nWilliam,
    I suspect Marian is too nicely dark to enjoy this.\r\nHave you seen her Halloween
    poster?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-25 15:19:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Marian Bantjes knows there are <a href=\"http://www.bantjes.com/index.php?id=152\">other
    days of the year than Halloween</a>. \r\n\r\nSometimes I wonder whether you do. "
  created: '2007-05-25 15:55:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Have you talked to her about holidays? I have. The fact that you admire\r\nher
    work (as I do) does not mean you have much in common personally.\r\nAnd the fact
    that she relishes Valentine's Day (as I do) does not mean she\r\ndoesn't harbor
    a shaded complexity way beyond this pair of jewelry lines.\r\n\r\nAnd as you know
    I wonder about you too.\r\nAlthough each passing day \"wondering\" describes it
    increasingly poorly.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-25 16:02:49'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Without wading into the miasma of the last page allow me to suggest these
    things:\r\n\r\n- The name is important. The Poerty/dream/associations evoked by
    the name is what is important about it & will vary a great deal. No item of personal
    expression ( jewelry fit neatly into this category as do clothes and unfortunately
    cars...) can be really successful unless it <cite>isn't</cite> for somebody. Not
    only can you afford to leave out some people. You Must.\r\n\r\n- You could go
    with a letter mark alone. That would be classier & be higher end. Or you could
    have a 'mark'. Or contrive to have both. One for the low & one for the high.\r\n\r\n-
    If you do have a mark it should be somewhat enigmatic and available to interpretation.
    I like these ideas:\r\n\r\n \u2022 a wrecked sand castle\r\n \u2022 a broken window\r\n
    \u2022 a spiled cup of tea\r\n \u2022 a statue with the head laying to one side\r\n
    \u2022 a cupcake with one side smashed - cande still lit but tipped over? \r\n\r\n
    In other words - be less litteral. Let the viewer work it out for themselves.
    These more litteral and direct ideas make me yawn. They seem shrill & highshool-y
    to me. The reason is they leave less room for the imagination. Branding is about
    creating a space for the buyer to project their desires and fantasy. I say: Make
    room!"
  created: '2007-05-25 18:34:09'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "OK people, enough suggestions already.\r\nCharlotta, let's see some designs,
    if you're willing. \r\nI admit, it'd be an act of bravery at this point!\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2007-05-25 18:41:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">let\u2019s see some designs\r\n\r\nSee the photos of her jewelry on p 2
    of this thread. "
  created: '2007-05-25 18:44:04'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: I think Randy meant designs as in a logo, William.
  created: '2007-05-25 19:11:58'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "<cite> a wrecked sand castle</cite> and <cite>cupcake with one side smashed</cite>\r\n
    Brilliant! \r\n \r\nTom: I'm not taking the bait today, too much work ; ) and
    I have nothing to say to hrant that Charlotta hasn't already covered. "
  created: '2007-05-25 20:20:54'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: 'My words were: "I merely meant that I respect that someone might have a different
    opinion on this thread and does not cave under peer pressure (like I have if you
    will) to let this thread end in a duel". And by not caving under peer pressure,
    I simply meant remarks other people said about our duel & that with that in mind
    I stepped down from the arguement. And by that someone who might have a different
    opinion I meant Hrant. I respect him for broadcasting his opinions no matter what.
    I haven''t changed my mind about anything I said, but I backed down in (idle?)
    hope not to annoy others any longer.'
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charlotta
      picture: 112418
    body: Ill sans - One last question about this - do you respect me for broadcasting
      my opinions no matter what?
    created: '2007-05-25 21:35:22'
  created: '2007-05-25 20:38:48'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite>blush</cite> Thanks Lorenza.\r\n\r\nRandy, I will take my cue from
    you today.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-25 21:14:03'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Sure I do, but I guess I just got under the impression we weren't. Honestly
    though, I probably respect you less for your opinion than Hrant, but let's just
    call that birds of a feather ;-)
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charlotta
      picture: 112418
    body: Fine by me. I can understand that since you're friends and share similar
      opinions.   :-)
    created: '2007-05-25 22:03:52'
  created: '2007-05-25 21:41:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What Randy said.\r\n\r\n> See the photos of her jewelry on p 2 of this thread.\r\n\r\nConcerning
    which, it would be interesting to learn (I mean the\r\nreal reason) why the third
    one (the coral/green necklace with\r\nthe jade buddha thing) was swapped out for
    something that\r\nlooks like the other two \"soft\" ones, after things heated
    up...\r\n\r\n> It became a \u201Cduel\u201D between me and hrant (and you)\r\n>
    simply because I didn\u2019t cave under peer pressure\r\n\r\nIt became a duel
    <cite>in your head</cite>. And that happened only because you can't handle criticism.
    Don't mistake that for being strong-willed, and certainly not for being an enfant
    terrible.\r\n\r\n> since you\u2019re friends\r\n\r\nIn the most tentative way,
    and entirely thanks to you!\r\nDon't imagine that we had some sort of unwritten
    mutual desire to\r\ngang up on you, no matter how well that suits your predispositions.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-25 22:32:07'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: www.satelliteparis.com is the jewelry store in Paris. You can see what I mean
    on the site - on closer inspection they seem to be recreations of the famous paintings
    rather than photoshop jobs. Well done and great jewelry in any event.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charlotta
      picture: 112418
    body: "That's stunningly beautiful! Very creative and some of my favourite artists
      - Degas, Vermeer and Gauguin, the latter especially so well created with the
      women and the colors that one immediately can see which artist it is. I wish
      I would've come up with that idea...  :-)\r\n(Thanks for your IM message)."
    created: '2007-05-26 09:34:39'
  created: '2007-05-25 22:43:38'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "I really enjoyed being here - before hrant - and I just posted my last comment
    to him and was looking forward to continue the interesting and stimulating interaction
    I've had here with the rest of you. But it seems that this man is attacking me
    when I'm not even communicating to him. He has made comment about my replies to
    both Hiro and Ill sans.\r\nThis is his last comment to me about my interactions
    with the rest of you: >Charlotta: I have had nothing but very pleasant interactions\r\nwith
    everyone in this forum except for you and hrant.\r\n\r\nhrant> You\u2019re drawing
    lines between people\u2019s behavior in a highly aritificial and self-serving
    way.\r\n\r\nJudging from the opinions and graphics concerning \u201Cenfant terrible\u201D
    that I\u2019ve seen in this thread you can be pretty sure that a number of people
    have simply given up on you, or at least helping you in this thread. Their silence
    does not imply agreement, and certainly not respect.\r\n\r\nIf the rest of you
    feel this way about me and wants me not partcipating in this forum (or thread)
    I'll stop doing it, but I will not be scared off by hrant. Please, tell me how
    you feel, and thanks for all kind and supportive messages.  :-)\r\n\r\nAnd BTW,
    hrant - considering your last comment about the pictures of my jewelry - I had
    to take the picture away because of reasons that has nothing to do with the untrue,
    nasty gossip you tried to come up with. Get a life.\r\nCharlotta"
  created: '2007-05-26 00:37:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> You can be completely anonymous and say whatever comes to mind.\r\n\r\nNo,
    no, that's not it at all - I'm not anonymous, not in the least.\r\nIt's the physical
    non-presence that causes people to be more frank,\r\nto spill their guts more
    easily. I believe you recently noticed that\r\nabout your own behavior here.\r\n\r\nI
    go to type conferences, and sometimes I have to meet the people\r\nI've had conflicts
    with. This it not about escapism, but coming to\r\nterms with certain aspects
    of human nature.\r\n\r\n> Are there any women in this forum who isn\u2019t\r\n>
    laughing out loud right now if they read that?\r\n\r\nWhy don't you ask them?\r\n\r\n>
    What a feeble attempt to get away from the\r\n> fact that you\u2019re using a
    derogatory word for women. \r\n\r\nNot women, <cite>a woman</cite>. All the difference.\r\n\r\n>
    there were men as well who gave me advice\r\n> about you - can they be feminazis
    too?\r\n\r\nNo, regular nazis.\r\n\r\nBTW, people have been privately talking
    dirt to me about you too.\r\nNow what?\r\n\r\nCharlotta, you have a lack of experience
    in situations\r\nlike this. Have the humility to be in a learning mode.\r\n\r\n>
    What advice have I taken in this forum? I have accumulated ...\r\n\r\nSounds like
    hot air to me. You have trouble taking advice, of any\r\nkind, and I bet people
    who know you personally would confirm this.\r\n\r\n> You\u2019re apparently the
    type of person who thrives on bickering\r\n\r\nNo, I thrive on exposing fraud.\r\n\r\n>
    someone who\u2019ll never admit to having any flaws.\r\n\r\nMore convenient ranting
    and raving.\r\nI have a lot of flaws, and I regularly admit to them.\r\nAsk people.\r\n\r\n>
    you think is going to break me down.\r\n\r\nRepeat: I don't care enough. I'm doing
    this\r\nfor myself and the integrity of discourse.\r\n\r\n> And trying to make
    me feel that people don\u2019t like me around here\r\n\r\nYeah, nothing like what
    you've been talking\r\nabout the private advice you've been getting.\r\n\r\nCharlotta,
    you're out of control.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-26 00:52:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> If the rest of you feel this way about me and wants me not\r\n> partcipating
    in this forum (or thread) I\u2019ll stop doing it\r\n\r\nFrom my 7+ years here
    I can assure you that nobody (well, except for a nazi or two) wants you to leave
    or stay because of what they might think about you or your work. They would hope
    that you take advice, and give advice, and not mind me too much, or anybody else.
    Care about type, not what people think about you.\r\n\r\nGo back and reflect on
    your (over)reaction to my opinion that you're not an enfant terrible, which is
    how this mess started. Try to decide if your behavior, including your demonization
    of me, makes sense. Unless a medical condition is preventing it, I think you might
    just wake up.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-26 01:07:25'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "Hrant, please give up. She's more interesting than you. \r\n\r\n\u0192"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charlotta
      picture: 112418
    body: "Fredrik - Tack! Jag har aldrig tr\xE4ffat p\xE5 en mer bitter, aggressiv,
      komplexfylld och os\xE4ker m\xE4nniska i mitt liv. Han g\xF6r allt f\xF6r att
      f\xF6rs\xF6ka bryta ner mig, det \xE4r pinsamt och sorgligt. Men du har v\xE4l
      mer erfarenhet av den h\xE4r personen \xE4n jag. :-)"
    created: '2007-05-26 09:49:12'
  created: '2007-05-26 01:29:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I didn't realize this is an elimination contest.\r\nAre you're still in?!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-26 01:41:08'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Fredrik, what a silly cat you are.
  created: '2007-05-26 02:48:02'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nyour enthusiasm for typography is matched only by your enthusiasm
    for fruitless argument."
  created: '2007-05-26 02:53:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "A flaw, admitted. Although Uli always beats me.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-26 03:46:55'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "\"who\u2019s not afraid to be different, and someone rebellious and flamboyant\"\r\n\r\nCharlotta
    from that intro and from the pieces you've shown, forgive me for being presumptuous,
    but I think you're talking about a sensual experience - you know what I mean?\r\n\r\nReserved
    they ain't.\r\n\r\nFurthermore how you chose to have the ring hold the stones/glass
    borders on bondage. And yet the piece's vitality isn't restricted by such bondage.
    These works are bold, lively - perhaps even naturally flamboyant.\r\n\r\nYour
    work speaks more to the senses than to the intellect. You know what I mean? \r\n\r\nTake
    Winston's work for instance, it's very controlled stuff, almost to the point of
    being 'unnatural'. Cleveage cut just right, stones set in traditional claw posture.
    His stuff is almost banal due to it being too clever - too linear - that, and
    wanting to appeal to a 'class' structured society. (Which I don't want to go into
    right now, but I'm not talking about money and 'affordability', I am talking about
    dominance.)\r\n\r\nYour work, has a bold natural sensual quality that Winston's
    does not. And as you intro'd your work with words like \"not affraid... ,different...,
    rebellious..., flamboyant...\" - this speaks to a client who is yes 'structured',
    but one doesn't conform to societies norms, ...ok?\r\n\r\nIt's a bold thing to
    be part of society with a vitality that can 'impact' others. And do it with a
    uncultivated natural love. \r\n\r\nJust like a John Lennon peace sign?\r\n\r\n\r\nThe
    frailty of a butterfly doesn't translate a bold sensual vitality that steps out
    of societies norms. And it sure ain't rebellious - more cliche if anything. And
    as for the drawing techniques of Bantjes, those pen strokes/scratches don't convey
    a bold sensual natural sweep of flamboyant emotion. And to saddle others work
    as Patty suggests, puts your work in a subserviant position - at best gimmicky
    and more unnatural if anything.\r\n\r\nThink more along the line of being uniquely
    uninhibited yet with a stylish love, perhaps with a nod to tradition - whatever
    the hell that is... 'craft'?\r\n\r\n_________\r\nHiro\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charlotta
      picture: 112418
    body: "Hiro - I appreciate what you are saying and I like the fact that you're
      talking about love. \"Think more along the line of being uniquely uninhibited
      yet with a stylish love...\" I really don't know what to do about that but I
      love it!  :-)  I think people here - at least the graphic designers - have to
      understand that I am a novice at this. I've studied art and poetry and interior
      design, but this whole graphic world and everything that has to do with marketing
      a product and branding and thinking about the  potential customer, is like entering
      a new world to me. And it's incredibly fascinating and I love learning about
      this but at the same time it's hard.\r\nMy imagination, inspiration and creativity
      run wild when it comes to making jewelry - I am only limited by money right
      now. And I guess you feel the same way when you're introduced to a new idea
      from a client. But bare with me sometimes if I don't get it. Some of you are
      very clear about an idea and some are talking more in metaphores.\r\n\r\nYes,
      it's more a sensual experience and yes my work speaks more to the senses. You're
      absolutely right, so now what do I do?  ;-)"
    created: '2007-05-26 10:43:11'
  created: '2007-05-26 07:13:35'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Ehm... Has English changed immensely in the past few minutes or has my mind
    finally gotten the better of me? ;-)\r\nTranslation, please..."
  created: '2007-05-26 10:01:30'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "I was just reading the April/May issue of Dynamic Graphics, ang came across
    an article about designing a logo for a jewelery company. \r\n\r\nhttp://www.dynamicgraphics.com/dgm/Article/28760\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charlotta
      picture: 112418
    body: 'Mili - Thank you! I just looked at it and I''m sure it can be very helpful.
      I''ve been looking for something like that. I wish I could make illustration
      like that. '
    created: '2007-05-26 11:44:40'
  created: '2007-05-26 10:01:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hmmm. If you just want to do this yourself for now, for Social Butterfly,
    see if you like <a href=\"http://www.veer.com/products/typedetail.aspx?image=UMT0000181\">Affair</a>
    or another of the Alejandro Paul scripts. (The type tester at Veer is called 'Flont'.
    Use that to test your names.)  You could also try Enfant Terrible in one of those,
    but maybe <a href=\"http://www.veer.com/products/typedetail.aspx?image=UMT0000181\">Dalliance
    Script</a> would be better. \r\n\r\nThese strongly flavored scripts might give
    you something that is satisfactory until you've got more cash on hand...\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charlotta
      picture: 112418
    body: 'William - You and I think a like. Dalliance was one of my last top three
      fonts before I decided to go for Perla. '
    created: '2007-05-26 13:05:56'
  created: '2007-05-26 13:03:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> can\u2019t afford to hire anyone right now\r\n\r\nThis is a problem. I
    can think of three possibilities:\r\n1) Use text-only logos. But you'll have to
    buy a font,\r\nbecause the \"canned\" ones on your computer won't be\r\nideal.
    If you go this way we can suggest fonts, as William\r\nhas already started doing.
    Here's one I might suggest:\r\nhttp://www.linotype.com/915/kursivschrift-family.html
    _\r\n2) Partner up with a graphic designer, agreeing to give\r\nhim/her a small
    percentage of future profits. This might\r\nbe a good idea because you only pay
    if you succeed, and\r\nover the course of your business you'll need a lot of\r\ngraphic
    work done.\r\n3) Possibly the most promising: barter some of your jewelry\r\nfor
    the graphic design service. Luckily, talented women make\r\nup the majority of
    graphic designers! If you can make a piece\r\nor two \"on demand\" that are more
    suitable for men that would\r\nof course almost double your pool.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-26 15:35:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Trying to think about this more deeply:\r\nIt seems that the graphic-vs-textual
    logo decision is now the central one here. I personally prefer the former in general,
    but as others have mentioned a text-only logo might actually be preferable; as
    it often does, it leaves things to the customer's imagination, which can be great.
    In this case especially it also has the distinct advantage of being less costly
    in terms of cash, materials and/or potential eventual profits. On the other hand:
    hopefully the savings aspect does not over-ride everything else; and a graphic
    approach might in fact be better if the aggregate customer perspective is focused
    enough for a graphic logo to nicely focus things to the benefit of sales. Each
    of us can and does have opinions about what \"social butterfly\" and \"enfant
    terrible\" connote, and some of us even feel comfortable gauging a general connotation
    among the prospective customer population, but the degree of <cite>divergence</cite>
    in the connotation is qualitatively much harder to gauge, and this I think is
    what would determine whether a graphic or textual approach would be better. Ergo:
    if you believe that the cost of having a graphic logo is too great in relation
    to the possibility of a graphic approach being ineffective or even confusing due
    to a large divergence of what those label names connote, then you should go with
    a textual approach.\r\n\r\nWhat happens then however is that you ideally should
    have two different fonts for the different lines. The highly convenient thing
    about Perla here is that it does have two cuts - one dark and one light! A question
    however is whether the light cut is strong enough to hold its own. So you might
    do better to choose a different font for one of the lines.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-26 18:28:26'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<em>I didn\u2019t realize this is an elimination contest.\r\nAre you\u2019re
    still in?!</em>\r\n\r\nI wouldn't dream competing against You in an elimination
    contest. You'd survive a nuclear explosion.\r\n\r\nHowever, had Typophile been
    run as a monarchy your days as a court jester would have been numbered.\r\n\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2007-05-27 00:46:31'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I love Dalliance but it is very popular - altho the script less so. I might
    suggest customizing it (if Emigre's EULA permits... if you care whether their
    EULA permits, I personally think Emigre's fonts beg for customization). It seems
    appropriate, with its dagger-like qualities and the flourishes.
  created: '2007-05-27 08:58:36'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Charlotta,\r\nThose illustrations and scrolls used in the article I mentioned
    were all customized royalty free vector illustrations. In other words, you don't
    necessarily have to know how to draw, or even hire anyone to do the illustration
    for you, if you want to use rf illustrations. The snag is, you might come across
    them in another context since they're not exclusively yours. Also, to customize
    them, you need to have the appropiate application (eg. Illustrator) and skill
    to change the artwork.\r\n Sorry if I'm stating the obvious, and you already know
    all this!"
  created: '2007-05-27 09:17:42'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: Mili - Trust me, you're not stating the obvious when it comes to graphic design
    and typography. Like I've said a number of times now, I am new to this. I have
    an image in my head and/or I just fall in love with something when I see it, but
    I'm not as innovative as graphic designers when it comes to "doing something"
    with a phrase or an image. I have just begun to leard Photoshop but I don't even
    know what Illustrator is. (Embarrassing I know...)   ;-)   I need to work with
    a designer and combine my feeling about this with his/her ideas and graphic talent.
  created: '2007-05-27 09:56:19'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "I apologize again for perpetuating this tiresome duel, but I can't just take
    insults like this lying down.  \r\n\r\nHrant - \r\nThis is the last time I'll
    discuss criticism, humility, me being or wanting to be an enfant terrible and
    why I think we're having this disagreement.\r\n\r\n1.)There\u2019s a difference
    between not being able to handle criticism and merely standing up for one\u2019s
    opinion. 2.)You mistake standing up for myself as lacking humility. I still respect
    your take on an enfant terrible to 100% and I would never force my opinions on
    you. You don\u2019t respect my opinion but you have to at least accept it.\r\nAnd
    as far as humility goes - I\u2019ve been deeply humbled by some very difficult
    things in my life and having you telling me that I am not humble is absolutely
    revolting. And trust me, it\u2019s impossible to come out at the other end of
    something painful and lack humility and self-insight. Furthermore, your remarks
    about humility is just another display of your double standard since your behaviour
    isn't exactly humble. \r\n\r\nPlease, start to THINK about what it is you're saying
    to \r\npeople! \"Nazi\" is bad enough but to make a comment about me possibly
    having a \u201Cmedical condition\u201D is abhorrent. What if I really had a medical
    condition? Have you thought about that? Or do you go to any lengths just to try
    to have the last word?\r\n\r\nComment me openly or privately, if you will, but
    do not interfere with my interactions with other people. You commented on what
    I said to Ill sans and I let that pass because I did mention you briefly. Then
    you commented on my message to Hiro which had absolutely nothing to do with you
    and yet you accused me of essentially lying just to be diplomatic. You had the
    nerve to question my sincerity and said that I basically lied just to get some
    \"followers\" in a time of need(?) Don\u2019t even insinuate that I\u2019m a liar
    or tell me that I\u2019m not genuine about what I say to people. I have never
    ingratiated myself to anyone in my life and I am not about to start now. I can
    convey that I don't like someone's idea without being harsh. I think it's a good
    thing to be diplomatic and kind - and that's the way I want to be treated if I
    showed someone my jewelry and they didn't like it. \r\nAnd the comment (which
    obviously wasn't directed straight to me) about me removing a necklace, was nothing
    more than insinuating negative things about me. \"...concerning which, it would
    be interesting to learn (I mean the real reason) why the third one (the coral/green
    necklace with the jade buddha thing) was swapped out for something that looks
    like the other two \u201Csoft\u201D ones, after things heated up.\u201D  \r\n\r\nYour
    comment on this disagreement, (Ill sans called it duel not I.) \u201CIt became
    a duel in your head. And that happened only because you can\u2019t handle criticism.
    Don\u2019t mistake that for being strong-willed, and certainly not for being an
    enfant terrible\u201D, is as usual unfair and untrue. Luckily, all our interactions
    are here for everybody to read and not just in \"my head\". Seriously, I know
    what you mean by that comment but I think that most people would agree that this
    is not just about you trying to help me, and I, being so insecure and unable to
    take criticism, only look at it as an attack on me. I AM strong-willed and self-secure
    and I'm sorry, but you don't seem to be able to handle that. \r\n\r\nIt seems
    like the meaning of what an enfant terrible is is very sensitive to you. It's
    almost obsessive. You've told me that I'm\r\nNOT an enfant terrible in almost
    every single message lately. You put so much meaning and value to this phrase
    that it's crazy. In this sense I am absolutely a lot more superficial than you
    might've thought because I don't care that much. It's not a wish nor an ambition
    of mine to become one, so let it go. It's just an innocent little phrase that
    I happened to like and MY take on it have traits that I can relate to. Interestingly
    enough though, the only TWO people who have ever told me I wanted to be one and
    that I am not, are you and Ill sans. No one else - at least not openly. Everyone
    else have focused on how to turn it into an image or word mark.\r\nAnd you keep
    on being categorical and quite possessive of this phrase, as well, repeating things
    like - \"being bull-headed doesn't make you an enfant terrible\", and being \"diplomatic\"
    and \"strong-willed\" dont make me one either. Haven't we all agreed that the
    phrase has a personal interpretation? So why do you talk like you know \"the real
    meaning\" of it? And if that's not true, how is it possible for you to tell me
    that I am not behaving like one? \r\n\r\nYou accused me of trying to make you
    look like a demon? I have merely defended myself against your insults and if you
    can't see that that I don't know what to say. Maybe it's easy for you to turn
    180 and all of a sudden send me messages purely about graphic/text and maybe you
    did that because I hadn't - at that point - \"retaliated\" for your last comments.
    I thank you for your advice, but I hope you can appreciate that it's hard to receive
    help from someone who hasn't exactly acted like a friend. I sincerely hope that
    it's possible for us to \"make up\". Let's agree on disagreeing or just accept
    that we might not like each other if nothing else is possible. And then we can
    just ignore each other. After your last comment, that is, which I'm sure is coming
    soon. And in all fairness - you can't restrain yourself for replying to my comments
    so why should I? But I'm going to try from now on because this takes too much
    energy and I really don't want to be kicked out of this forum.  ;-)\r\nCharlotta
    \ "
  created: '2007-05-27 13:17:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> if Emigre\u2019s EULA permits\u2026\r\n\r\nYou're dreaming lady!  :-/\r\n\r\n>
    This is the last time\r\n\r\nFingers crossed!\r\n\r\n> You don\u2019t respect
    my opinion but you have to at least accept it.\r\n\r\nI don't understand what
    this means. Respect, shmespect - I'd really rather that you didn't care. Accept
    what? That your prospective customers think what you seem to be thinking concerning
    \"enfant terrible\"? Conduct a decent survey, and I might change my mind.\r\n\r\n>
    your behaviour isn\u2019t exactly humble.\r\n\r\n\"Do as I say, not as I do.\"\r\n\r\n>
    What if I really had a medical condition?\r\n\r\nYou might consider revealing
    it so people take it into consideration.\r\n\r\n> do not interfere with my interactions
    with other people.\r\n\r\nYou don't get to decide that - your personal social
    rules are close to worthless here (as are mine). This is not a cocktail party.
    But you do get to decide your own behavior. And you should realize that when I
    seem to be \"meddling\", it's to resolve discourse, not as an attack on you.\r\n\r\nPlease
    realize that claims like \"had absolutely\r\nnothing to do with you\" make no
    sense at all.\r\n\r\n> lying just to be diplomatic.\r\n\r\nNo, I wouldn't call
    it lying.* But if you look back through\r\nyour own posts you'll see that I got
    the idea from you.\r\n\r\n* See below concerning terminology.\r\n\r\n> that\u2019s
    the way I want to be treated\r\n\r\nFactor that out.\r\n\r\n> this is not just
    about you trying to help me\r\n\r\nIn fact it's very little about trying to help
    you. As I said\r\nbefore, to me it's about: the integrity of discourse; and the\r\ndesire
    to express my thoughts.\r\n\r\nYou are a part of this society, not a dainty\r\nfluttering
    individual who needs to be pampered.\r\n\r\n> It seems like the meaning of what
    an enfant terrible is is very sensitive to you.\r\n\r\nI'm a sensitive person.\r\nWell,
    at least when it comes to terminology: I don't like it when people twist words
    just so they come out better. And I do something about it. Actually though not
    always: like you previously misused \"belligerent\" but I let it slide.\r\n\r\nMore
    to the point:\r\nI guess in this clinical, sheepish society I value people like
    that - they're so rare too. Couple that to my deep aversion to posers and you
    get a strong reaction to some goody-two-shoes proclaiming she's one. Also, maybe
    I'm envious, since I'm not really one myself either.\r\n\r\n> I don\u2019t care
    that much.\r\n\r\nPlease let your keyboard know.\r\n\r\n> the only TWO people
    who have ever told me I wanted\r\n> to be one and that I am not, are you and Ill
    sans.\r\n\r\nUntrue. Where else would we have gotten the idea but you?\r\nRe-read
    some of your early posts and you'll see exactly where it started.\r\n\r\nIf you
    now state that you're not one after all, great,\r\nbut I hope it's not some convenient
    tactic. Or diplomacy.\r\n\r\n> Everyone else have focused on how to turn it into
    an image or word mark.\r\n\r\nAnd quite unnervingly you've chosen to ignore the
    beliefs engrained in their suggestions. Like Tom said, it's quite clear that most
    people here associate much more darkness with the term than you like. You're looking
    the other way.\r\n\r\n> Haven\u2019t we all agreed that the phrase has a personal
    interpretation?\r\n\r\nI guess if you have trouble remembering what you've written
    yourself you'll never really grasp what other people have written...How many times
    do I have to repeat the stuff about the interpretation of your prospective customers
    being what's important here? BTW, I \"know\" nothing. I think.\r\n\r\nApparently
    you completely throw away not just people's advice, but even just what they say.
    This is very annoying, and you can bet not just to me.\r\n\r\n> I have merely
    defended myself against your insults\r\n\r\nUntrue.\r\nYou have made more personal
    attacks\r\nthan anyone in recent memory. Even me!\r\n\r\n> Maybe it\u2019s easy
    for you to turn 180 and all of a sudden send me\r\n> messages purely about graphic/text
    and maybe you did that because\r\n> I hadn\u2019t - at that point - \u201Cretaliated\u201D
    for your last comments.\r\n\r\nNo, no, no. You're thinking of somebody else. I
    did not turn any degrees (at least not more than 2) and, to repeat, your participation
    (in any form) does not much affect mine. This is how I am. Ask around.\r\n\r\n>
    it\u2019s hard to receive help from someone who hasn\u2019t exactly acted like
    a friend.\r\n\r\nFrankly Charlotta I think that's moot, because it seems for you
    it's hard to receive help even from good friends! :-/  This is quite sad (and
    I'm not saying that to make you feel bad).\r\n\r\n> Let\u2019s agree on disagreeing
    or just accept that we\r\n> might not like each other if nothing else is possible.\r\n\r\nI
    don't see why we need to agree on anything, and I don't want liking\r\nor not
    liking to be a factor here - it's bad for fruitful discourse.\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m
    going to try from now on\r\n\r\nGood luck. I mean it.\r\n\r\n> I really don\u2019t
    want to be kicked out of this forum.\r\n\r\nWhat makes you think that would happen?\r\nNotice
    that I'm still here!\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nPlease, try to address my previous two posts
    [as well].\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-27 14:25:25'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Why couldn't we customize Dalliance? You can't reverse engineer the font software,
    but to take a work and customize it in Illustrator is permitted. (Unless I'm missing
    something. How do you read their EULA?)
  created: '2007-05-28 02:50:46'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Charlotta -- you can always invoke [[The Silence Brigade]] on (H)rant....
    ;-)
  created: '2007-05-28 04:56:27'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Miss Tiffany -  Keep in my mind that all this is new to me, didn't even know
    what EULA was until now. ;-)  How/where do you customize a font? In Illustrator?\r\n\r\nLinda
    - That's hilarious - \"invoke the Silence Brigade\", sounded like something from
    Harry Potter. :-)  But no, I don't need to do that, I can handle him. Thanks for
    the advice though! :-)"
  created: '2007-05-28 09:50:26'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Regarding Emigre's EULA and Dalliance - I'm on someone else's PC (can't figure
    out how to do anything, miss my Mac like crazy) so haven't checked their rules.
    I just didn't want to advise Charlotta to do anything that might be against the
    rules. I have certainly customized fonts for logos but was pretty ignorant myself
    regarding EULAs until very recently.\r\n\r\nI wish there was a way to cut out
    the flaming in this thread and leave what's interesting which is Charlotta's jewelry,
    her logo, and peoples' various interpretations of \"enfant terrible\"."
  created: '2007-05-28 12:32:39'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Illustrator (or Freehand or Coreldraw in order of my preference), is ideal
    for customising a typeface, but it isn\u2019t always a simple process. Hrant has
    made helpful suggestions; bartering your jewellery skills for someone\u2019s typographic/design
    skills might be a workable solution. The points, that several have made, of whether
    your business would be better served by a wordmark than a symbol combined with
    text when the definitions are so broad are worth considering, although the choice
    of typeface does bring with it connotations, the imagination is given looser rein.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-05-28 13:11:51'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: " <cite>I can handle him</cite>\r\nCharlotta, it's not you we are worried
    about, it's HIM! Please have mercy! : )\r\n\r\nAgree with Pat but it seems hrant
    considers this duet some sort of  \"rite of passage\", something newcomers have
    to go through because he belongs to the develop-a-thick-skin-is-good-for-you school
    of thought. Anyway Charlotta, make sure you don't kill him, hrant can be fun sometimes.
    Sort of."
  created: '2007-05-28 14:25:55'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Patty - I don't want this to be about anything else than what you mentioned
    and I feel embarrassed every time I reply with another LONG message, but it's
    hard for me to ignore him. \r\n\r\nTimd - hrant might've given me good advice
    in his messages on this page but unfortunately his belligerent attitude drowns
    out everything that might be worth reading.\r\n\r\nLore - I just emailed you.
    I have no idea what you think but get back to me when you have the time.  :-)
    \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-28 17:08:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> his belligerent attitude drowns out everything\r\n\r\nThis depends on the
    listener. William dislikes me probably\r\neven more than you do, but he's not
    completely incapable\r\nof recognizing the occasional worth of things I contribute.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    thanks for using \"belligerent\" correctly this time, if not accurately.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    if you end up hooking up with Lorenza (possibly\r\nleveraging the bartering scheme
    that I suggested) I think\r\nit might be a great symbiotic relationship, and to
    your\r\nlarge mutual benefit.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-28 17:43:54'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "If an enfant terrible was an animal...? Could it be a frog? I like frogs.
    Myths and fairytales - they're slimy and not so beautiful but if you kiss them...?
    Not that that has anything to do with an enfant terrible, but I'm getting desperate.
    \ ;-) \r\nI found a moth. Someone suggested that a while ago. Could there be a
    butterfly for one collection and a moth for the other?? [img:sites/default/files/old-images/animals
    copy_6723.png]"
  created: '2007-05-28 19:24:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Animal? Clearly:\r\nhttp://people.bu.edu/wwildman/ben/tassie/taz.jpg _\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-28 19:55:11'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "<cite>I think it might be a great symbiotic relationship, and to your\r\nlarge
    mutual benefit.</cite>\r\n\r\nThanks for your blessing, dear. I know you get insanely
    jealous when I hook up with someone at Typophile (Hi Nick) but rest assured, Charlotta
    and I, it's only business (I have an eye on that gorgeous ring), nothing else.
    \r\n\r\nI like the moth but for some reason I tend to like the suggestions that
    involve some sort of dark humour, like the tentacle thing, or the sandcastle idea
    but maybe you're right, keep it serious, the moth is a good idea. Not sure about
    Taz..."
  created: '2007-05-28 20:42:35'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "It seems like it's time for me to step up again.\r\nSorry, Lore, but basically:
    EAT ME!\r\nI'm very disappointed to see the same person who made the first remark
    that this whole thing was getting unpleasant for everyone, has now decided to
    pick sides & actually makes a sarcastic remark at Hrant's address. So I'll take
    your comment as an invitation to me to rejoin the debate. Even Linda joined in
    on this & since the balance is more uneven & unfair than it ever was, consider
    me back (& this time it's personal)!\r\nSure, Linda's comment & maybe even Lore's
    may be playful, but who's to say mine & Hrants original posts weren't? Further
    more, Charlotta never had to do deal with the 2 of us at the same time. She conveniently
    ignored Hrants first comment that started all this (as did everyone else) which
    was what prompted me to second him. Things got a little ugly between me & Charlotta
    then, but Hrant only picked up where I left off. It was always one on one & still
    we were accused of ganging up on her. Well, what do you call this, then? Even
    when I took a step down, Charlotta kept on including me in the debate. A few days
    back, I've sent her an email with my apologies for how things escalated, but she
    didn't even have the decency to reply to this. It just goes to show. But in the
    meantime, she's not at all embarassed to openly tell Lore she just sent her an
    email & everyone here can pretty much guess what that's about. The more I read
    here, the more annoyed I get & I think it's time for Charlotta (& Lore for that
    matter) to find a mirror! It doesn't seem like you're independent & secure enough
    to post the content of your email, but nevertheless you d\xF2 mention it here
    (why not send her an instant message instead?). This is standard passive agressive
    behaviour & you know what? Maybe Hrant doesn't take the bait anymore, but I sure
    do! It seems to me you just crave attention whether it's positive or negative
    (I told you this time it's personal) & this is probably why you kept on including
    me. Should we start counting how often you've said \"this is my LAST reply\".
    You'll probably dismiss this as psycho babble, but then again, up until now you've
    done nothing but bend everyone's words to your own convenience. The only thing
    I can tell from your posts is that 1. you crave attention, 2. even though you
    admit to being new to all this, you can't seem to take advice from people who
    know what they talk about (or at least better than you), 3. you d\xF2 have a problem
    with criticism (you proudly proclaim you don't care about what Hrant or I think,
    but nevertheless you do not seem to be able to let our comments pass you by (even
    after I stepped down)) 4. you don't seem to be able to think outside your box
    (see the math problem).\r\nBy the way, I haven't been able to follow this discussion
    the past days, so I'm just warming up."
  created: '2007-05-28 21:14:27'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Ouch!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/neverknewwhathithim_5848.gif]\r\n(that's
    me with the baseball cap)\r\n\r\nTom: we are all trying to have a laugh at this.
    Even Hrant. Relax and join us. Since you find so offensive that Charlotta and
    I exchange emails, I explain to you what's all about: Charlotta  likes one of
    my illustrations and she would like to use it. And I said, of course, it's all
    yours.  No big feminazi conspiracy going on, cool your little boots."
  created: '2007-05-28 21:37:27'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Still, you can't deny the fact of insinuation.And like I said in the long
    reply, who's to say Hrant & I were not being half serious in our first posts on
    this matter?
  created: '2007-05-28 21:52:27'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Ill sans and to anyone who may have sent me an email.\r\nI have not received
    any email from anyone in this forum - and that's not a bad excuse for not wanting
    to respond or having nothing to say. In fact, Lore had sent me an email a couple
    of days ago that I didn't receive and I only found out a couple of hours ago and
    went in to my account and changed the address. I would NEVER ignore an email or
    a message, online or IRL. And as far as the message from hrant that Ill sans brought
    up again, that I'm accused of also having ignored, please send it again and I'll
    respond.\r\nCharlotta\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-28 22:32:46'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>Even Linda joined in on this & since the balance is more uneven & unfair
    than it ever was, consider me back (& this time it\u2019s personal)! Sure, Linda\u2019s
    comment & maybe even Lore\u2019s may be playful, but who\u2019s to say mine &
    Hrants original posts weren\u2019t? </em>\r\n\r\nSay what?  Are you referring
    to my suggestion to invoke TSB as some sort of indication of my position -- either
    pro or con -- in what has rapidly degenerated into a flaming, name-calling sham
    of a discussion?  \r\n\r\nBecause if you are, you are sadly mistaken, and an apology
    would be in order."
  created: '2007-05-28 22:38:10'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: All I said is that -regardless whether you're pro or con anyone or whether
    or not it was just a playful response- other people are discussing the situation
    as well now, so I don't see any reason why I should shut up out of respect for
    anyone. And meddling will surely not end this debate. Read whatever you like into
    that.
  created: '2007-05-29 00:06:48'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Charlotta, below is a copy of the mail I sent you...\r\n\r\nHi Charlotta,\r\n\r\nI'm
    probably the second to last person you were expecting a mail from, but there has
    been too much going on lately to just leave things as they are now.\r\nFirst off,
    I'd like to apoligize for my behaviour (as in chosing the wrong/harsh words here
    & there), but I have to get it off my chest that you invited us to comment your
    interpretation of an enfant terrible in the first place. I'm very sorry you seem
    to be under the impression Hrant & I had some sort of pact, but I can assure you
    that I don't know Hrant any better than you. His face (eye-icon) is a little more
    familiar to me, but that's all. We did not gang up on you in an attempt to humiliate
    or annoy you, we were simply broadcasting our views hoping to be of some kind
    of help to you. I have to admit that in the midst of the heated discussion some
    unpleasantries may have been written, but like Hrant said: the internet & a forum
    like Typophile is not an open invitation to bullies (at least not in my case)
    & it simply ables people to be a bit bolder than they would be in real life. Unlike
    you still like to believe, this is not a gender-issue. You said men tend to get
    condescendent in a heated discussion, but maybe that's just our hormones, not
    at all any kind of misogynistic attitude of any of the posters. If anything, it's
    just a clash of cultures (Mars vs. Venus) rather than a battle of the sexes. Even
    the \"birds of a feather\" comment did not imply this at all, I was merely referring
    to similar ideas & even though it might be a little prejudiced, you can't ignore
    the fact that you find yourself rooting for the person you tend to identify yourself
    with. Not that I identify myself with Hrant or anyone else, but at least, we had
    one thing in common which -untill then- could not be said about you and me. Unitll
    then since it now seems I'm not the only one who \"caved under peer pressure\"
    in an attempt to try and put an end to this mess ;-) I respect you as a person
    with all your interests & ideas, but if the Typophile board is not at all representive
    of society as Kristina stated, maybe it's not the right place for you to be looking
    for answers? It would be wise to get at least a second non-Typophile opinion about
    this. I wouldn't trust friends & family for this (they're obviously not objective
    no matter how hard they would try to be) & suggest to look for some other forum
    (maybe there's even a forum about jewelry somewhere?) to get more insight into
    how your customers would interprete your interpretation. Maybe you already have,
    but either way, I think that's your safest bet right now. From your answers on
    Typophile, it's probably safe to say none of that will make a difference as you
    seem very determined in your choice, but as far as that goes, I can only give
    you the advice you gave me: try and think outside the box. I'm not out to bring
    you down or anything, but like I said on Typophile, it seems the majority of people
    associate an enfant terrible with things you don't want your jewelry to be asscociated
    with. And it would be at least interesting to investigate Kristina's remark and
    mine to see in what length the Typophile board is representive of our society.
    Not trying to be a sexist, but it might also help to narrow your audience down
    to women only. Since men & women think differently & women are obviously much
    more sensitive to any emotional reaction (men hunt, women nest; that kind of thing)
    a certain image/phrase has on them, this might prove to be a good solution for
    you. Let me just leave you with one last thought: I think the idea of a simple
    logotype is the perfect solution to avoid any kind of misinterpretations & much
    more elegant than any kind of symbol. Your jewelry looks too elegant for any kind
    of symbol (unless maybe something very abstract or geometric) & I think this would
    only add to how it is presented. For symbols, I have also thought of the 4 elements:
    earth would be perfect to represent the \"sober\" part of your collection & fire
    works perfectly well for the more flamboyant line, but then again, this is just
    a thought (feel free to post this idea for reactions).\r\nI honestly hope you
    don't take anything that has been going on in your thread as personal (to you
    or women in general), but can find a way to appreciate we were only trying to
    help you by sharing our views on the subject. Unfortunately, by doing so and using
    harsh words your thread ended in a battlefield.\r\nMy sincere apologies for this
    & any future comments I might make in other threads, but only by being honest
    I might be of any help to you (in a worst case scenario only to illustrate you
    might get annoying reactions to everything you do, not only online). Sure, my
    honesty is brutal sometimes, but then again, so am I. Maybe that's another difference
    in how women & men express themselves? Men tend to get a little sharper around
    the edges whereas women are far more diplomatic & sophisticated in many situations,
    especially heated debates.\r\nI wish you all the luck with your jewelry & everything
    else.\r\n\r\nKind (yes, I \xE0m actually a kind person; ask anyone who knows me)
    regards!\r\n\r\nTom Lukacs - ill sans"
  created: '2007-05-29 00:09:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "\u203D"
  created: '2007-05-29 05:08:07'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "<em>If an enfant terrible was an animal\u2026? </em>\r\n\r\nThe Cat... in
    particular, a White 'domesticated' cat.\r\n\r\n\r\nAnd for what it's worth - I'm
    surprised hrant has invested as much energy/hope as he has, trying to reach the
    naked soul of Charlotta.\r\n\r\nhrant, sometimes - some people - just can't be
    found. \r\n\r\n__________\r\nHiro\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-29 05:21:40'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Speaking of cats, this whole thing reminds me of a pet you're desperaley
    trying to housetrain, but even after having rubbed its nose in its own urine numerous
    times, the damn thing still pisses on your carpet. Sorry for the bad anology,
    but that pretty much sums this thread up. Hopefully this math is not too advanced
    for some. Oh, and let me just state for the record that I'm an animal lover. Plus
    que je connais les hommes, mieux j'aime les b\xEAtes."
  created: '2007-05-29 06:41:26'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "> Tom: we are all trying to have a laugh at this.\r\nLore, your excuse for
    joining in on the \"fun\" is plain stupid & you (should) know it. Funny how the
    first person to be so annoyed by all this that she thought it was necessary to
    point it out to others, has now -somehow- found a way to appreciate the humour
    in it all. What happened in the past few days that made you miraculously turn
    180\xB0 (to use other people's terms)? I'm curious."
  created: '2007-05-29 06:55:51'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "> Tom: we are all trying to have a laugh at this.\r\nLore, your excuse for
    joining in on the \"fun\" is plain stupid & you (should) know it. Funny how the
    first person to be so annoyed by all this that she thought it was necessary to
    point it out to others, has now -somehow- found a way to appreciate the humour
    in it all. What happened in the past few days that made you miraculously turn
    180\xB0 (to use other people's terms)? I'm curious."
  created: '2007-05-29 06:55:53'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "I truthfully feel really bad right now because it feels like this is all
    my doing and if I hadn't joined this forum this unpleasant debate never would've
    taken place. It was never my intention.\r\nAnd I decided yesterday to take a step
    back from \"the debate\" with hrant and I think we all tried to put this behind
    us and just focus on the fun, and then it seems to start again?  \r\n\r\nIll sans
    - I'll respond to you in an email and that's not because I have anything to hide
    but I rather not keep on taking up space in this forum with this perpetual drama.\r\n\r\nI
    also want to explain/apologize for the fact that I haven't replied to many messages
    containing a lot of brilliant ideas and helpful advice, but I honestly feel that
    the heated discussion between me and hrant has taken up so much energy and time
    for me that I haven't been able to focus. I hope people can see that and not mistake
    it for me being rude, ungrateful or nonchalant. And yes, it has been a conscious
    decision to keep on writing to hrant and thus ending up losing a lot of valuable
    information and giving interactions with other people. That's only my own fault
    and due to a combination in my personality of loathing unfair accusations and
    being argumentative.\r\n\r\n\r\nHiroshige-  >And for what it\u2019s worth - I\u2019m
    surprised hrant has invested as much energy/hope as he has, trying to reach the
    naked soul of Charlotta.\r\nThat's pretty deep. I'm not sure he would agree with
    you. I thought he wanted to give me advice and share his opinions with me and
    then it turned into a very heated debate between us.\r\n\r\n>hrant, sometimes
    - some people - just can\u2019t be found.\r\nThat's a cruel thing to say.  "
  created: '2007-05-29 10:23:37'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "Taking this out on thin ice and possibly through the surface and into the
    dark...  \r\n\r\nI  thought of a passage from Man Rays autobiography <em>Self
    Portrait</em> where he writes about his collaboration on a silver collar with
    William Seabrook, writer, explorer and profound sadist. I believe he was a bit
    of a cannibal as well. Anywat, it was made for Seabrook's girlfriend at the time,
    Marjorie Worthington. The tricky part, then. The choker's extreme height made
    it difficult for the wearer to swallow or breathe. \r\n\r\n<em>\"She wore the
    bauble at home to please Seabrook's penchant for fetishism, and because it became
    quite uncomfortable after a while. She also wore it at a social function once;
    it was a sensation, few suspecting its real function. He made her wear the collar
    thereafter whenever they went out to dinner and took a certain pleasure in watching
    her at the table eating and drinking with difficulty.\"</em>\r\n\r\nInspiring,
    right?\r\n\r\nI could be wrong, but your focus is more on pret-a-porter than haute
    couture then this is probably a bit hard but exploring the aspect of Enfant terrible
    as someone against conventions so much you make it painfully hard to wear but
    \u2013 very important \u2013 still such an object of desire you must try. Like
    a heavy sphere, hanging on a thin chain, plaited with a sharp pointed thorn of
    crowns in silver. One wrong move and it might rip a piece of clothing, or flesh
    even. \r\n\r\nOr <em>maybe</em> I got a bit carried away. \r\n\r\nStill a potent
    area of exploring anyone's inner enfant terrible. Ugly thoughts wrapped beautifully.\r\n\r\n\u0192\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-29 10:52:04'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: 'Tom: whatever.'
  created: '2007-05-29 12:26:12'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Great comeback, Lore! ;-)
  created: '2007-05-29 12:41:38'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Fredo - That acutally sounds like it would turn out to be a very beautiful
    piece of jewelry. And there might be something alluring, maybe excisiting to wear,
    knowing that it could hurt you if you didn't\r\nbehave correctly. ;-) \r\n\r\nThere
    have been a lot of beautifully expressed metaphores mentioned by a lot of people.
    I was going to address that yesterday but it all got a bit heated again. The sandcastle
    and the muffin with the candle, to name two. I am a big fan of poetry so here's
    my absolute favourite poem by one of my favourite poets e e cummings. Maybe we
    all need some beauty and love today, I know that I do,   :-)  \r\n\r\n\r\nsomewhere
    i have never travelled,gladly beyond\r\nany experience,your eyes have their silence:\r\nin
    your most frail gesture are things which enclose me,\r\nor which i cannot touch
    because they are too near\r\n\r\nyour slightest look easily will unclose me\r\nthough
    i have closed myself as fingers,\r\nyou open always petal by petal myself as Spring
    opens\r\n(touching skilfully,mysteriously) her first rose\r\n\r\nor if your wish
    be to close me,i and\r\nmy life will shut very beautifully, suddenly,\r\nas when
    the heart of this flower imagines\r\nthe snow carefully everywhere descending;\r\n\r\nnothing
    which we are to perceive in this world equals\r\nthe power of your intense fragility:
    whose texture\r\ncompels me with the color of its countries,\r\nrendering death
    and forever with each breathing\r\n\r\n(i do not know what it is about you that
    closes\r\nand opens; only something in me understands\r\nthe voice of your eyes
    is deeper than all roses)\r\nnobody,not even the rain, has such small hands\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-29 13:07:44'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Ill sans - I'm writing you an email.  :-)\r\n\r\n\r\nAbout the poem: \"nobody,
    not even the rain has such small hands\"\r\nIsn't that just breathtakingly beautiful?? "
  created: '2007-05-29 13:10:11'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "<cite>Great comeback, Lore! ;-)</cite>\r\nStill more interesting than your
    <cite>woman are from Venus, men are from Mars, hunt and nest</cite> sermon. Anything
    else? Or are you (Tom) finally done? Thanks.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-29 13:45:25'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Charlotta, thanks for your upcoming email & thanks for sharing that poem
    with us, it is indeed breathtakingly beautiful!\r\n\r\nLore, have you already
    lost your sense of humour?\r\nIt comes and goes as it suits you apparantly, but
    I have to give you credit for having the bravery to openly contradict yourself.\r\nOn
    another note, the whole Mars/Venus thing came from other people's accusations
    of this being about 2 men ganging up on a woman in case you forgot (maybe your
    memory comes and goes as well?). I sent this mail before the weekend, so in the
    meantime obviously a lot of it has already been covered or straightened out in
    this forum, but as I already said yesterday, I have been absent for a few days."
  created: '2007-05-29 14:15:03'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Charlotta - that poem was used to great effect in Hannah and Her Sisters,
    most notably the last line. I have always remembered it.
  created: '2007-05-29 15:54:44'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Patty - That's where I first heard it - Michael Caine saying it to one of
    Hannah's sister's, I think. I never could forget it either so I looked it up and
    it's amazing. He's wonderful. I've been brought to tears many times just reading
    his words.  :-)\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-29 16:47:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You know, this thread was kind of dumb (and misleadingly encouraging - \"I
    can't spend money on design\") to begin with*, and now that it's been appropriated
    into an unspoken battle of the sexes (with Thelma & Louise references imminent...)
    it should really be taken out and shot. For one thing, I happen to know that Charlotta
    isn't even reading all the on-topic content - really she's mostly focused on feeling
    attacked. So I'll limit my post to the single thing that I feel must be addressed:\r\n\r\nLorenza,
    consider that Tom might be angry because he suspects you manipulated him back
    then; and when it didn't work out the way you wanted, you casually trampled over
    his loyalty on your way into the ring. Why would you do that? Maybe to isolate
    me; maybe to defend a sister - except what that really entails is using her to
    further your own ends. It would not be out of character, but most of all it's
    Not Nice, and your cavalier \"have a sense of humor\" twist only makes it more
    unnerving. Half joking? That doesn't make the other half any less serious, only
    more covert.\r\n\r\n* Believe it or not my main original motivation\r\nwas encouraging
    a newbie! Little did I know...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-29 18:07:46'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: '?'
  created: '2007-05-29 19:18:18'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Charlotta, I've been following (sort of) this thread and thinking about your
    original question. In my personal opinion one cannot assign themselves as an enfant
    terrible simply because doing so means you subscribe to labels which in and of
    themselves are part of the status quo. Or in other words, true enfant terrible's
    are beyond labeling because people don't know how to label them. If that makes
    any sense. :^D \r\n\r\nTherefore, I'd suggest using a typeface. Something you
    personally feel fits your designs and go with it. The designer in me would say
    find something unreadable and overtly pretentious, something that might frustrate
    people a little. But don't worry about a symbol. "
  created: '2007-05-29 22:23:30'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Miss Tiffany - I have finally decided to skip the symbol. It seems impossible
    to find one that feels right to me and at the end of the day - in spite of hundreds
    of opinions and advice from other people which I am really grateful for - it obviously
    has to feel good for me. It's my jewelelry and my web site. I am sticking with
    Perla alternate which is the most beautiful and unique font I have ever seen.
    I hope it will draw some attention on its own - without any symbols. The lower
    case b:s, l:s, i:s, e:s and o:s are just lovely. \r\nBut I don't think like you
    who do this everyday and are into typography - I just fall in love with a font
    and take it from there.\r\n:-)"
  created: '2007-05-29 23:07:14'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Ah, I had forgotten you chose Perla. I love that typeface as well. I think
    it was natural selection that lead you to not choosing a symbol. You're right
    in that it needs to please you, that is the best instinct to follow.\r\n\r\nBTW.
    I love your rings!"
  created: '2007-05-29 23:12:12'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Unspoken battle of sexes, trampling over his loyalty on my way to the ring,
    hunting and nesting, manipulating, Venus and Mars, defend a sister, using her
    to further my own ends, feminazi, 2 men ganging up on a woman, bravery, accusations.
    Brrrrrrrr...\r\nHow can anyone possibly read <cite>that</cite> much into this
    thread? It's just a girl asking for advice for her logo for gods sake, why is
    that you need to turn everything you read into a Mexican soap opera, hombre? \r\n\r\nSo
    Tom is angry? Oh well.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 01:51:27'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Well, I see your \"sense of humour\" is back again ;-p\r\nI'm not the least
    bit angry, I just get a little frustrated with people who are not consistent in
    what they say and how they act (obviously in this case: write) & people who constantly
    bend other people's words to suit their own convenience. If you really want to
    start the gender thing again, can I just remind you neither Hrant nor I were the
    first ones to bring it up. We were accused of 2 men ganging up on a poor woman.
    I used Charlotta's own words to defend myself (it's nice to get into a discussion
    with people who practically give you your defense in their own; like you with
    your sense of humour that comes and goes). It was Charlotta who brought it up
    in the first place, maybe because at that point it was all she could think off?
    Throwing yourself in the victim's role in a desperate attempt to defend yourself
    will only assure you you will get there (the victim part) eventually. My reference
    to John Gray was only to point out that -even though this was never a gender issue-
    Charlotta might have been onto something in her accusations (probably partially
    unknowingly). She stated men tend to get condescendent in heated debates & even
    though that was also a classic example of bending our words to benifit her reply,
    men & women ARE different (not merely anatomical), it's pure biology & just a
    scientific fact. But given some people's problems with simple maths (you included,
    Lore), this is probably w\xE0y over you head. So before making any accusations
    at least do the effort to look where they came from in the first place. Read -and
    by all means TRY to think- before you write to save yourself from any future embarassment."
  created: '2007-05-30 07:06:11'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "It's ok, Tom. You don't have to justify yourself all the time. Hrant said
    you were angry so it's him you have to persuade, not me. You don't sound angry
    to me. You sound desperate.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 14:20:06'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: I don't see what this has to do with being desperate. I'm only being correct
    & consistant which can't be said from all of us here. Does the fact you don't
    reply to my comment (your post is not exactly a reply, let's face it) imply you've
    misplaced your "sense of humour" yet again? Or did you simply run out of clever
    remarks now you've already used "whatever"?
  created: '2007-05-30 14:51:16'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "* reply to Charlotta's comment on MissGiggles' thread\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/33888\r\n\r\nCharlotta,
    YOU're the one who's still not grasping things & who doesn't have a clue what
    I'm talking about, but maybe that's just your lack of \"mathetical skills\"! Both
    Hrant & I have been trying to make it clear to you that it had nothing to do with
    your interpretation of an enfant terrible, but your customers' interpretation.
    We were only trying to give you this insight as advice. Sure, n\xF2w it's personal,
    but that's only because you wanted to be the victim in all this so much that you
    made personal accusations against Hrant & me (which until then we had not done
    about you, merely your ideas) twisting our every word. And about the back stabbing
    in another thread BS, YOU're the one who asked me about the difference, remember?
    Or did you catch some of Lore's amnesia? Sure, I made a reference to your thread,
    but only to point Pattyfab's double standards out. Maybe it's time for you to
    quit acting like a victim. You were never bullied until you asked for it. Miss
    Giggles on the other hand was bullied pretty much from the start of her thread
    for no reason at all. If you keep on asking for my opinions & motives, you will
    keep feeling bullied 'cause let's face it, no matter what I say, most of it is
    apparantly w\xE0y over your head (or is it your enfant terrible's independence
    that clouds your thinking?) & in your view offensive & condescending. But being
    condescending is only a reaction to your stubborness & unability to think outside
    your own little pretentious box. I can only give you the advice I gave Lore; read
    & THINK before you write! You asked for advice, but are too \"independent\" to
    take it from anyone & this blinds you from simple facts. But if you're too independent,
    don't ask for help or advice. This is just one of your classic contradictions
    & I'm sorry if I have to be the one to point them out to you, but apparantly nobody
    else -except for Hrant- has the guts to do so. Or maybe their \"math skills\"
    match yours.\r\nIt's a shame about your mail & efforts to try and send it to me
    (& to be honoust, I was actually quite curious about it), but now I doubt I could
    even be bothered to read it.\r\nAnd no offence, but I don't think we'll ever be
    friends... I have high standards, you see. I'm not here to bully anyone, but you
    have to stop taking my words out of context and wallowing yourself in selfpity.
    Don't forget you asked for my opinion & that's exactly what you got!"
  created: '2007-05-30 20:47:11'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Pattyfab - I agree with your comment in another thread, this is getting tiresome.
    But I don't see any end in sight unfortunately, and life's too short and too hard
    enough as it is to put up with this crap. Hrant - I should get \"through me thick
    skull that nobody cared\r\nenough for me to stab me in the back\"? But for some
    reason I don't think you would leave me alone and you're so incredibly unpleasant
    that I literally feel ill when I read your messages to me so I am forced out of
    this forum. \r\n\r\nFor the rest of you who might read this, it was really fun
    while it lasted and thank you for all your great input and support and advice.
    I have read EVERY SINGLE WORD of it and taken everything to heart. I apologize
    for not having replied to every kind and helpful message I got. Something else
    unfortunately got in the way.\r\n\r\nAs for all the utterly untrue and unfair
    comments, it's absolutely pointless for me to even begin to try to defend myself
    or explain myself any more. Yes, by all means, call me a victim if that makes
    you feel better. I would have liked to send you that email, Tom, but you didn't
    even had the decency to answer my IM:s, which I sent you several tonight. I still
    wanted to explain myself to you AFTER I read your last message - and to think
    that you got so upset with ME for thinking I had ignored your email. I thought
    you really were worth an explanation. I guess I was wrong. "
  created: '2007-05-31 00:05:48'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Well, Charlotta, I have to sleep s\xF2metime (& I never log out on this site)
    ;-)\r\nI just saw your IM you sent me last night asking me if I got the one concerning
    my email address (& that you had sent a message for me to the wrong person) &
    since you're not online now (you do log out apparantly ;-) ) I can tell you that
    that was the only message I received from you last night & that the last message
    I got from you concerning my email address was the one where you thought it might
    be an omen not to send it to me to which I replied it was just an omen that I
    needed a new computer ;-)\r\nBut if you still want to send it to me, I suggest
    you send it to aspronaut@gmail.com. I'm having problems with my telenet account.
    I received a mail yesterday from an orginasation concerning copyrights & patents
    (I sent them an email over a week ago about an idea of mine, but that's another
    thread again) with an enormous delay. So maybe I'll still get yours in the next
    few days, but if you want some assurance I'll get it, I think the gmail account
    is probably a lot safer."
  created: '2007-05-31 09:31:51'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Ill you might want to edit your email to protect it from creepy crawlers.
    ;^)
  created: '2007-05-31 17:54:31'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "That's OK, Tiffany. I'm surrounded by creeps anyway ;-)\r\nBut thanks for
    your concern!"
  created: '2007-05-31 18:00:55'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Black Sheep...\r\n\r\nhttp://blacksheepandprodigalsons.com/\r\n\r\nSocial
    Butterflies...\r\n\r\nhttp://jwilley.squarespace.com/\r\n\r\nAnd this...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.enfant-terrible-gold.com/store/\r\n\r\nNo
    comment."
  created: '2007-06-13 21:19:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thought of this the other day. I read that your not thinking of icons but
    maybe it's good for a laugh all the same. It seems somehow right for the thread
    as well.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/smokinghole_4043.jpg]"
  created: '2007-06-15 08:40:32'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Wormwood - \"No comment.\"\r\n\r\nI actually think you should comment. Would
    be very interesting to hear what thoughts lie behind those images."
  created: '2007-06-15 11:21:20'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Eben Sorkin - I still would've prefered to \r\nhave icons but it's very difficult
    to find any that are representative and fit into this particular context.\r\n\r\nThis
    reminds me of a Rorschach test. ;-)\r\nI think it absolutely perfect for this
    thread.  "
  created: '2007-06-15 11:35:19'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: .
  created: '2007-06-15 11:37:12'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "<em>\"I actually think you should comment. Would be very interesting to hear
    what thoughts lie behind those images.\"</em>\r\n\r\nComment on what? I have nothing
    to say.\r\n\r\nI stumbled upon the Black Sheep and Social Butterfly websites by
    accident so I thought I would see if there was anyone already trading jewellery
    under the name Enfant Terrrible. I just thought you would be interested to see
    them.\r\n\r\n<em>\"Would be very interesting to hear what thoughts lie behind
    those images.\"</em>\r\n\r\nI don't understand you. None of my thoughts lay behind
    'those images'. I have nothing to do with those websites.\r\n\r\nI saw the graphic
    below on a stencil craft website. I still think you're probably better off without
    logos but maybe you could create a nice promo image or background image by replacing
    the various sized dots in this butterfly with various sized gems and stones and
    beads etc.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sja127_4464.gif]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charlotta
      picture: 112418
    body: "Wormwood - I'll be completely honest with you. I thought you\r\nwere implying
      something - that I had \"stolen\" the ideas about\r\nthe butterfly and enfant,
      or something. (Which I truly have not.)\r\nI am getting paranoid, it's just
      that I didn't \r\nunderstand why you would write \"No comment\" if it didn't\r\nmean
      something. I am sorry. \r\n\r\nAs far as the butterfly is concerned - that is
      an absolutely\r\nbrilliant idea! It's both clever and beautiful. Thank you!
      \r\n\r\nI'm afraid to ask this because I don't want to start\r\nanother heated
      debate, but any thoughts on \"social butterfly\"? \r\nDo you think that's a
      negative or positive epithet? I think\r\nthere's something sad about it. Pretty
      but sad.   \r\n\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2007-06-15 16:05:11'
  created: '2007-06-15 14:10:59'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "That's funny. I specifically wrote 'No Comment' to try to make it clear that
    I wasn't implying anything or making judgements by posting those links.\r\n\r\nI
    would rather not comment on your choice of names for your jewellery ranges because
    I don't think it would be of any help as I'm not a potential customer.\r\n\r\nI
    think you shouldn't choose names because you THINK others will like them. It's
    got to be a personal decision that you feel comfortable with. If you like the
    names and feel they are suitable then it's likely your potential customers will
    do to. The name should be a natural creative extension of your jewellery and as
    much a creative decision as choosing a setting for a gem stone. That way the 'product'
    is more likely to work as a whole."
  created: '2007-06-15 18:20:43'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Maybe the reason an icon was never found is that one cannot truly pigeon-hole
    a true enfant terrible?
  created: '2007-06-15 18:46:04'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'Don''t try and have your name define your business. Let your business define
    whatever name you come up with. '
  created: '2007-06-15 19:09:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'I agree with Tiff. You can only allude to the idea. Not encapsulate it. Alluding
    is so much sweeter anyway. '
  created: '2007-06-16 06:56:08'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "\"I think you shouldn\u2019t choose names because you THINK others will like
    them. It\u2019s got to be a personal decision that you feel comfortable with.\"\r\n\r\nIt
    is and has always been about making personal decisions that feel right to me -
    with everything in life. But that is also what I've been criticized for. There's
    a difference between wanting things to feel right and still being open for change,
    and being narrow-minded and refuse to listen to other people's opinions. I get
    genuinely psyched when I meet someone who has an idea I've never thought of or
    who makes me look at something in a different light. But it goes without saying,
    it has to feel right.\r\n\r\nI make jewelry because it's a passion of mine and
    I only make pieces  that I personally like. I'm not \"ruled\" by what other people
    might like or by what's trendy. I think it's hard to succeed in business (or in
    life in general) if one just decides to do something according to what other people
    might like. (Or what might generate money.)\r\nI believe you have to feel passionate
    about something if you intend to make a business out of it. \r\n\r\nYes, an Enfant
    Terrible seems almost impossible to turn into an image at this point. It's probably
    best to let people have their own take on what it means. Still, it's an interesting
    challenge.    ;-)\r\n\r\nSomeone wrote about an image of a broken sand castle
    and a tilted candle in a cup cake. I liked that very much. Turning it poetic and
    letting an image be a metaphor of what an enfant terrible is. That's probably
    the best solution.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-16 16:16:38'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">image of a broken sand castle and a tilted candle in a cup cake\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s
    more enfant than terrible to me and the metaphor won\u2019t work, I think your
    decision to work with type is a better solution.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-06-16 16:29:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> an Enfant Terrible seems almost impossible to turn into an image at this
    point.\r\n\r\nNot an image, that's always too literal to make a good logo - you
    want a <cite>symbol</cite>.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-17 04:12:06'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "\"Turning it poetic and letting an image be a metaphor of what an enfant
    terrible is.\" \r\nMaybe you missed that sentence? That actually means finding
    a \"symbol\" for it. And when I used the word \"image\" I meant something other
    than text. A symbol isn't text (type), is it?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-18 19:45:18'
- author:
    name: Daniel Denk
    picture: 112599
  body: "My contribution toward this concept:\r\n\r\nFawn - Pan\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-18 20:10:50'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Daniel Denk - \"Find your own example\" - Who wrote that?\r\n\r\nInteresting
    choice - Fawn - Pan.  :-)"
  created: '2007-06-18 21:29:19'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: I would like to categorically state that Al Pacino is the most hackneyed actor
    ever. He is a caricature of his caricature, a blasphemy on the name of acting,
    which is blasphemy in itself.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charlotta
      picture: 112418
    body: Paul Cutler - You are far too deep for me. I didn't get that.  :-)
    created: '2007-06-19 14:30:37'
  created: '2007-06-19 06:09:42'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Huh!?
  created: '2007-06-19 07:27:10'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Pacino is a joke (altho what that has to do with this thread eludes me) and
    DeNiro is rapidly heading down the same path.
  created: '2007-06-19 18:15:35'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "TypeCast dot us - is available ;)\r\n\r\n_________\r\nHiro"
  created: '2007-06-19 18:32:08'
- author:
    name: Daniel Denk
    picture: 112599
  body: "Isn't it irony that while I'm sitting here referencing typographers of the
    past -- and noting and referencing their brilliance in contribution to the progression
    of typography -- that I then come to a forum where the idea that any actor whom
    has shaped an end-result in the relative progression of acting, to be 'a joke'
    is present.\r\n\r\nPerhaps I respect our elders a little more. If what one means
    is the issue of 'relevence', then perhaps the context is more culturally appropriate
    toward their time in contribution.\r\n\r\nBut I digress...\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-19 22:58:27'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "enfant terrible = no\r\n\r\nadulte terrible = oui"
  created: '2007-06-20 02:29:24'
- author:
    name: TS.Eggs
    picture: 112632
  body: 'i was just thinking about dennis the menace, but then i thought about bart
    simpson and his stone thingy i would understand the message to that: [img:sites/default/files/old-images/zwille_5864.jpg]'
  created: '2007-06-20 17:05:58'
date: '2007-05-21 14:37:02'
node_type: forum
title: Symbol for enfant terrible??

---
