---
author:
  name: Werfer
  picture: 111217
body: I absolutely love Scriptina, which is a great typeface - but an abysmally bad
  font. Does anyone here know who actually designed this typeface?? My research never
  comes up with an actual person. I would very much like to ask this person if it
  were possible in any way to improve the font quality.
comments:
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Some Apostophe guy or gal...\r\nhttp://desktoppub.about.com/library/fonts/hs/uc_scriptina.htm"
  created: '2007-05-24 10:31:16'
- author:
    name: fission
    picture: 112562
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.identifont.com/find?font=Scriptina\">Identifont</a>
    says it's a guy named Frederic Nader.\r\n\r\n\r\nTyler"
  created: '2007-05-24 10:56:41'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: For fonts of that style that are both technically and artistically sound,
    look to the <a href="http://www.veer.com/partner/link.aspx?i=1048&c=4&p=/search/results.aspx?savedSearch=b202340179e390a6">scripts
    of Alejandro Paul</a>.
  created: '2007-05-24 14:07:56'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: Fred told me he considers his free fonts to be in the public domain, which
    means you are free to clean it up if you want. I might even have it in writing,
    if I can find the e-mail.
  created: '2007-05-24 21:47:14'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "I agree with Stephen. The scripts that Alejandro produces are beautiful and
    well-crafted. You'll find something very much in the style of Scriptina. \r\n\r\n(Not
    to take anything away from Umbrella or House, other fine script producers.)"
  created: '2007-05-24 22:15:57'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: '@fontplayer - REALLY???? GREAT!! Oh, please, please.... can you get this
    for me? I would be soooo happy. The characters are sooo beautiful, but the font
    is just crap.'
  created: '2007-05-31 09:22:51'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "I 'll be sure to tell him your feelings when I call him. It turns out that
    when I checked and couldn't find it, I remembered that when my 40 Gb HD was running
    out of space, I deleted all folder e-mails (except save) that were older than
    one year old, and compressed folders (a Windows thing), to save disc space. \r\n\r\nMaybe
    when I tell him you think it is crap he will e-mail me a dispensation to allow
    you to make it less smelly.\r\n; )\r\n\r\n(I imagine that something like \"it
    has problems\" would be more politic, but I can relate to just letting fly with
    what I consider to be the truth)"
  created: '2007-06-01 06:22:10'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "@fontplayer - that would really be cool. You are of course right, \"it has
    problems\" sounds much nicer. I daresay these problems are not in any way related
    to the creator, who just designed supercool characters, and then put them in his
    font creating software, which made this abysmal TT I am currently using. So, no
    blame or insult intended to the designer (the programmers of whatever software
    he used, on the other hand...) :-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-01 08:11:02'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> but the font is just crap\r\n> this abysmal TT\r\n\r\nThe quality of the
    original PS and TT fonts available here\r\n\r\nhttp://moorstation.org/typoasis/designers/lab/lab_scriptina.htm\r\n\r\nare
    neither crap nor abysmal.\r\n\r\nBut then, for Pike Werfer, most things are crap
    and abysmal."
  created: '2007-06-01 08:31:13'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "Well, looky here - it is Uli, our great Latin speaker and self-proclaimed
    legal expert :-) So now your a font technology expert, too? I'm impressed.\r\n\r\nSo,
    this font is not crap. Let me ask a few questions:\r\n\r\n1. What do you know
    about font technology? (We are talking about the SOFTWARE here, you do realize,
    I hope? We are NOT, I repeat, NOT talking about the design, we are NOT talking
    about the typeface, which is great.)\r\n2. How many fonts have you actually done
    yourself?\r\n3. What is the status of your education concerning font programming?\r\n4.
    On what do you base your assumption that these fonts are okay? (and please do
    not say that letters come up when you press keys, please, please, please...)\r\n5.
    What do you know about the structure of Truetype fonts?\r\n6. What do you know
    about unicode tables?\r\n\r\nOh, and one more thing - \"But then, for Pike Werfer,
    most things are crap and abysmal.\" Please prove this by naming examples. As far
    as I know, we have not met, and I daresay I never tagged anything as crap before
    in this forum. I do believe the word abysmal popped up in our last conversation,
    though. However, \"ULI\" is not the equivalent of \"most things.\" :-)  \r\n\r\nOtherwise,
    I would be forced to categorize this as a stupid and untrue attempt to insult
    me, proclaim things about me which are untrue and simply act the troll. Which
    means I will once more stop taking you serious, laugh about you, and invoke \"The
    Silence Brigade.\"\r\n\r\nPlease allow me to be so bold as to state my opinion:
    you know next to nothing about font software programming. Sorry to say it.\r\n\r\nThis,
    however, is a conversation where people who DO know talk about how to improve
    a font which is not so good in order to honour the wonderful design which it visualises.
    Oh, and no shady lobbyists here. No money involved. Just enthusiastic type people.
    Sorry to disappoint you. \r\n\r\nShould I be correct, and should you not be able
    to answer the questions (as you did the last time we had an argument, which was
    quite embarrassing for you, I daresay), then I would politely ask you to stay
    out of it. Okay? It is simply rude to interrupt people who have a conversation
    by spouting unproved insults. It is a nono, Uli. Your mother should have taught
    you that.\r\n\r\nOh, by the way - just to inform you, since I believe you are
    trying to get your fun out of annoying people (this is indeed an assumption, I
    have no proof of it :-), let me tell you that you do not annoy me. You entertain
    me. Therefore, stay with me and keep posting stuff like this - don't go away like
    last time. I do adore having arguments with people like you :-)"
  created: '2007-06-01 10:08:45'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "The slang term \"crap\" and the hazy term \"abysmal\" prove that Mr. Werfer
    is unable or unwilling to supply a technical description of the flaws, if any,
    of the Scriptina font file. And in addition, Mr. Werfer is unable or unwilling
    to specify \"this abysmal TT  I am currently using\".\r\n\r\nFor instance, the
    different font files named SCRIPTIN.TTF downloadable from\r\n\r\n1) http://www.dafont.com/scriptina.font,
    and also from\r\n\r\n2) http://desktoppub.about.com/library/fonts/hs/uc_scriptina.htm\r\n\r\nare
    ***not*** identical with the original font file downloadable from the website
    specified by me. The Dafont and Desktoppub font files have been tampered with
    by persons like Mr. Werfer who want \"to improve the font quality\".\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-01 16:10:03'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: It is all subjective people. One person's crap is another person's gold. Please
    don't turn this into a negative shouting match.
  created: '2007-06-01 17:20:39'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: Werfer, the phone number I had is now someone else's. So I e-mailed using
    the last address I had. If I hear back I'll resurrect this thread.
  created: '2007-06-02 20:16:57'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "@fontplayer - thank you so much. I'm really thankful!! Let's hope he answers
    back. Since I would never touch a font without the consent of the person who made
    it. Golden Rule :-)\r\n\r\n@Miss Tiffany - sorry, but I guess I've got no choice.
    I didn't start this, but since he asks for it, I'll gladly let 'em have it. :-)\r\n\r\n@Uli
    - Hey Uli, since you are once again unable to answer a single question - could
    it be that you can't read? I do hope you're not blind :-) \r\n\r\nWell, your answer
    proves my point. You don't know anything about fonts, do you? But you like to
    be important, and prove it by posting links you found in google. So very clever
    of you. Why this community, I once again ask myself. Why not motorcycles?\r\n\r\nSo,
    what would it help you if I told you that some of the table entries in the font
    are wrong? What would you say when I tell you that this font needs contextual
    features to really work? Would you understand when I tell you that the scaling
    is not always correct? What would you say if I pointed out that the hinting in
    some places could be improved? \r\n\r\nI remember some guy named Uli telling me
    that he could prove his point, but that I should check for myself, hihi.... Do
    you want me to post the link of the topic where you said it? I could, you know
    :-) Oh, it is a bad thing when your own words come back to haunt you, is it not?
    Was it not you who claimed things without being able to prove them? (Want the
    link :-) And now you're blaming me for not doing it. Oh, you would be such a bad
    politician. Don't you realize everybody can see through it, and is laughing about
    you (well, apart from the people who get aggravated by you - luckily, I'm not
    one of them)?\r\n\r\nI did not prove them, because I simply wanted to talk to
    people who are able to get me into contact with the designer, so that I can talk
    to him, or get the permission to do a new version. So I am talking to people like
    fontplayer. This topic was not about dissing the typeface. It was not about dissing
    the designer. I thought it unnecessary to prove anything, because it was not my
    intention to attack anyone. Read the initial question. So there was nothing negative
    in this topic until you dropped in. Do you feel good now? Oh, and do you WANT
    me to prove them? If so, I might sit down and make a list. Just for you. To shut
    you up properly. Come on, ask me :-)\r\n\r\nIn case you want to learn something
    about fonts - and we are still talking about the SOFTWARE - then feel free to
    get a book. Oh, and the term \"crap\" simply states my opinion. Nothing else.\r\n\r\nOh,
    just to make you happy - I have ALL versions of Scriptina here, and the links
    you posted were known to me - I have access to google, too, you know.\r\n\r\nOh:
    'The Dafont and Desktoppub font files have been tampered with by persons like
    Mr. Werfer who want \u201Cto improve the font quality\u201D.' So you think you
    have enough knowledge to state that\r\n\r\na. I tamper with fonts without the
    consent of the creator (why this thread, then?)\r\nb. claim that I am not good
    enough to do it properly\r\nc. you yourself have enough know-how to know when
    a font has been improved or not\r\n\r\nUli, go away. Please. This is hilarious.
    Claiming without proof - did you not, just a few lines ago, state that this is
    a bad thing? Come on, make up your mind. Or is it like: other people need to prove
    it, I, the great Uli, do not need to. You claim that \"people like me\" manipulate
    software without the consent of the creator. You are accusing me of a crime, you
    do realize that? Without proof, of course. :-)) You should be thankful I do not
    know any shady lawyers, hihi... Oh, what fun. Every forum should have someone
    like you. Well, need to get to work now. See you soon, Mr. Stiehl. Naw, let's
    drop the Mister, eh, shouldn't we, Uli? Doesn't sound good :-)"
  created: '2007-06-04 09:58:50'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "I wonder why this strange Mr. Pike Werfer (a pseudonym?) wants to know my
    \"status of education concerning programming\". Anyone who visits my website will
    easily discover that I wrote 4 books about computer programming and that I was
    the editor in chief of a computer programming magazine and that I wrote a couple
    of commercial computer programs. For instance, Bill Gates programmed the Applesoft
    program interpreter in assembly language, and I programmed the Applesoft program
    editor in assembly language. That's not a joke, that's a fact.\r\n\r\nI wish there
    were other authors of computer programming books at Typophile, so that the false
    claim \"Fonts are software\" made by font sellers in order to deceive gullible
    font buyers could be discussed by experts instead of by laymen who have never
    written any books about computer programming.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-04 12:19:53'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "Again you fail to answer a single question. I did not ask your status of
    education concerning programming. I asked your status of education concerning
    FONT programming! I don't care if you don't like to call fonts software - I do.
    But if it makes you happy, you could also call it script file, or executable (if
    its PS), or data. But what do you know about it? In other words: DO YOU HAVE KNOWLEDGE
    ABOUT WHAT A FONT REALLY IS? Oh, and what about those other questions? Don't you
    go and start picking raisins here! :-)\r\n\r\nSo you wrote some software. Great.
    But I don't care. It's beside the point. I was talking to somebody about fonts,
    and you come barging in. Oh, and comparing yourself will old Billyboy is not really
    a good one.\r\n\r\nSo you wish there were other authors of computer programming
    books here, but there are none? Why don't you then go and look some place else?
    Leave people alone who do not want to talk to you, hmmm?\r\n\r\nAnd no, I have
    NEVER written a book about computer programming. I've been to busy doing it for
    the last 20 years. :-) And the last 10 years were mostly concerned with fonts.\r\n\r\nTell
    ya what:\r\n\r\nYou claim that, for me, most things are crap and abysmal - prove
    it!\r\nYou claim that I am one of those people tampering with fonts - prove it!\r\nOh
    yes, and how about proving that blind people cannot read :-))\r\n\r\nIf you do
    so, I will give you a lecture about fonts as such and Scriptina in particular.
    I promise!!\r\n\r\nOtherwise - Silence Brigade for you once more :-) You do amuse
    me, but I do have things to do."
  created: '2007-06-04 12:53:18'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "It is pretty obvious that this man/woman \"Pike Werfer\" is a pseudonym for
    someone else who wants to vent his/her pent-up frustrations.\r\n\r\nAccording
    to his/her entry http://typophile.com/user/10639\r\n\r\nhe/she claims to be living
    in Hamburg in Germany.\r\n\r\nBut neither in the Hamburg telephone book nor in
    any other city of Germany occurs anyone with the family name \"Werfer\", let alone
    anyone with the complete name \"Pike Werfer\".\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-04 13:51:31'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "This is too funny!! :-)) ROFL I am actually the white rabbit, Uli. I live
    in a hole in the ground, and I drink my tea with dwarves. Every Wednesday. Come
    join. Oh, my, oh my.... *Werfer needs air*\r\n\r\nSorry, but you are really a
    lunatic. ;-) Here I was, talking to a fellow typophile about a topic you do not
    fully grasp. You come barging in to annoy us, claiming stuff you cannot prove
    and which you probably even know to be wrong.\r\n\r\nThen, when I point out your
    inconsistent and rather unintelligent behaviour, you start ranting about my name
    in order to discredit my valid arguments as well as myself as a person, and to
    camouflage your insulting behaviour. I have got news for you: it won't work. People
    on this forum are much too clever.\r\n\r\nGo and look for me if ya like - come
    to Hamburg, I will give you a sightseeing tour. :-) And until then, stay out of
    the conversations of grown-up people. fontplayer and I are talking to each other.
    Oh, and by the way, you DO know that Pike is a male name, don't you? I am married
    with children :-)) Oh, and one more thing:\r\n\r\n*whisper*\r\nI am NOT listed
    in the phonebook. I don't like it. My initial idea was to protect myself from
    annoying calls from people who want to sell something to me while I am preparing
    dinner; looks like it has other advantages, too :-)\r\n*end of whisper*\r\n\r\nand
    now for the last secret:\r\n*whisper again*\r\nWerfer is not a real person - he
    is actually a little elf with pointy ears, taken from my favourite comic, Elfquest.
    Pike is the English version of his name, so I thought it would be a cool pseudonym.
    I've used it since I don't know when. But thanks for checking the Hamburg telephone
    book. Now I at least know that there is no one living here who is REALLY called
    like that :-) Did you really, honestly believe that all these people here don't
    use nicknames? Ye flipping gargoyles, this is the internet. Did you check the
    Seattle telephone book for fontplayer? Is there a Miss Tiffany in New York? What
    about hrant? God, don't you at least feel a little bit stupid now?\r\n*end*"
  created: '2007-06-04 15:07:19'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "It must be something in the air that makes us all a little nuts these days...\r\nThere's
    a lot of personally addressed aggression on Typophile lately. Don't get me wrong,
    I don't mind it & I've even taking part in some of it ;-) It's just funny to see
    how it spreads & amusing to read people's arguments in their discussions. Keep
    up the good work! ;-)"
  created: '2007-06-04 15:57:38'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "@ill sans - thanks! I enjoy it, too :-)\r\n\r\nHowever, I must admit that
    all thanks should be passed on to Uli here. Hilarious - the things he writes are
    so ... well, unique ... that one can't go wrong. It is like a herring jumping
    into the can all by itself :-)\r\n\r\nOh, I should try to find you in the phone
    book. Is sans your first or your last name :-))"
  created: '2007-06-04 16:19:13'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "I'm only listed in medical journals as ill sans (check for the psychiatric
    wards) ;-)\r\nTom Lukacs is however my real name, but I'm not listed in any phonebook
    simply because I don't have a phoneline (just a cell phone like any good yuppie).\r\nIf
    you enjoy this, I can recommend the \"enfant terrible\"-thread as a good read
    ;-p"
  created: '2007-06-04 16:30:22'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: ">Again you fail to answer a single question.\r\n\r\nI always ignored his
    long lists of bizarre questions, because I discovered at once that this so-called
    Pike Werfer is a phoney. He not only faked his name. The other \"facts\" he supplied
    are faked too.\r\n\r\nWhy should Freddy bother to deal with a phoney?"
  created: '2007-06-04 17:48:22'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "\"The other facts he supplied are faked too.\" You are unbelievable :-) And
    of course you have proof for that, you great big font expert? Oh, my...\r\n\r\nOh,
    well.... enough fun! I was now asked by several people to stop playing with you
    - some mods, too - so I will: Silence Brigade for you, Uli. Please ignore my questions.
    Actually, please ignore me. And my threads. Go home. Although you really tempt
    me, I will ignore you, too, to get this topic back on track. It's boring, I admit,
    but it's peaceful. :-)\r\n\r\n@fontplayer - just send me a message as soon as
    you hear anything from Fred. You would make my day! :-) I will also check if I
    can contact him in any way.... really would like to see this baby go OpenType.\r\n\r\n@ill
    sans - thanks for the hint, I will certainly look into it :-) I do have a phone
    line, since my wife likes being on the phone, hihi... and I WON'T post my real
    name, otherwise I might get calls from Uli!"
  created: '2007-06-05 07:59:13'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Good call (mind the pun ;-p )!
  created: '2007-06-05 12:44:41'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: hehe - that's a good 'un :-)
  created: '2007-06-05 13:35:36'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Remember this one (one of my favourite movie moments):\r\n\r\n- #There's
    something strange in the neighbourhood, who you gonna call?#\r\n\r\n\xB0 HE-MAN!
    HE-MAN!\r\n\r\n(Ghostbusters 2)"
  created: '2007-06-05 13:48:42'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: Hmmmm... I wonder what HE-MAN would do in a case like this? I daresay we need
    a Typophile hero. How about TYPO-MAN?
  created: '2007-06-05 14:31:14'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "typo-man sounds like a hero with the hidden weakness of spell-check.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-05 14:36:59'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: misplaced keystrokes don't sound like very impressive superpowers.
  created: '2007-06-05 14:39:47'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "The battle against Comic Sans! Typo-man to the rescue! ;-)\r\nIs it an editor?
    Is it a reviewer? No, it's Typo-man!"
  created: '2007-06-05 15:07:12'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: Hihi.... CuckGroth is of course right. A very likable, yet handicapped super
    hero. How about SUPERFONT? :-)
  created: '2007-06-05 15:18:23'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Why not make a group of superheroes: the Fontforce?\r\nEach can have their
    own specialty: one fights Comic Sans, another one strides against Wordart, a third
    one could search and destroy \"wrong use\" of type (the Word-like \"obliquening\"
    & \"bolding\", stretching & squiching fonts),...\r\nI'm sure we'll be able to
    sell the comics via Typophile.\r\nAnd if success is obtained, a movie is not out
    of the question (see the Helvetica movie) ;-)"
  created: '2007-06-05 18:08:54'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: That sounds cool - but there is one flaw. I can't draw comics :-/ Can you?
  created: '2007-06-06 10:11:45'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "As a kid I've always wanted to be a cartoonist...\r\nAnd most of the things
    I draw have a very high \"Picto-plasma\"-like (www.pictoplasma.com/) quality.\r\nCute
    & simple characters that sometimes explode or burst into flames and stuff like
    that ;-)\r\nI'm not much of a scenarist though, are you?"
  created: '2007-06-06 10:54:56'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "Sorry for taking so long - was on vacation with the family :-))\r\n\r\n@ill
    sans - I guess I am not too bad at that. Do you have an overall concept for a
    storyline?\r\n\r\n@fontplayer - any news??? I created an OpenType and am currently
    playing around with the settings, but naturally I would never release such a thing
    without the consent of the creator. *sniff* It MUST be possible to reach him somehow."
  created: '2007-07-18 09:02:57'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Well, I know he likes to go to MacWorld in January. \r\n\r\nI just though
    of one other way to get in touch. I'll give it a go this weekend."
  created: '2007-07-18 15:54:35'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: I don't have an overall idea for a storyline & I can't be bothered to think
    about one now just yet, sorry. I'm been swamped in a lot of personal projects
    lately & with every single thing I do, I get 3 new ideas. Workwise it's hell,
    but I just get such a great rush from these "creative sprees". I can't sleep,
    I forget to eat, I drink & smoke an awfull lot, but I feel fantastic! Mind you,
    I might have some ADHD symptons ;-p The idea of working together on a story really
    appeals to me though. My first font ever included a whole bunch of cute dingbats
    (http://typophile.com/node/27678) & since I have a lot of sketches to make an
    extended family of it, I was thinking of "promoting/showcasing" it in a little
    comic book or illustrated storybook. So far, I've only got one limerick (http://typophile.com/node/31766),
    but if you can think of a nice story that includes zombies, squirrels, batman,
    monkeys, spiderman, strawberries, the smurfs, hamburgers & fries, Mickey Mouse,
    butterflies & Mario Bros, it might be nice to work together ;-)
  created: '2007-07-18 21:17:32'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "To generalize the info I just received, he is in a remote part of the world
    with no internet access, doing work with a group of friends for a well-known non-profit
    organization. So a definitive answer won't be soon in coming. I was told our query
    will be relayed when he calls.\r\n\r\nI can't say I know him well, but I do know
    he does things that make it seem like he dropped off the face of the earth from
    time to time. "
  created: '2007-07-19 14:30:36'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "@fontplayer - well, then I will wait for your input. Impatiently, of course,
    but I'll wait :-)) Wow, though! Working in a remote part of the world, that I
    could do. But without internet access?? I would die!! :-))\r\n\r\n@ill sans -
    zombies, squirrels, batman, monkeys, spiderman, strawberries, the smurfs, hamburgers
    & fries, Mickey Mouse, butterflies & Mario Bros??? Woah there :-)) I'll give it
    a thought, though...."
  created: '2007-07-23 10:27:08'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: 'There''s more: a werewolf, The Creature From The Black Lagoon, Nosferatu,
    Dracula, a mummy, Frankenstein''s monster, Pennywise from It, Leatherface from
    the Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Jason Voorhees from Friday The 13th, Freddy Krueger
    from A Nightmare On Elm Street, Michael Myers from Halloween, Dr. Zaius fromThe
    Planet Of The Apes, The Fly, Ghostface from Scream, Jigsaw from Saw, the Terminator,
    Gizmo & a Gremlin, aliens (own design, not the H.R. Giger ones), a robot, a king,
    a cook, a captain, an astronaut, an angel & a demon, a ghost, a whale, an octopuss,
    a chicken, fruits & plants & some office icons. Stretch your imagination where
    no mind has gone before ;-)'
  created: '2007-07-23 10:55:04'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: Woah there - and who is supposed to be the main hero???
  created: '2007-07-24 11:02:24'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: It doesn't really matter. A bunch of short stories could also be nice. But
    don't worry, you've got some time to think about it, I've still got too much on
    my hands right now anyway.
  created: '2007-07-24 11:46:52'
date: '2007-05-24 10:20:09'
node_type: forum
title: Scriptina - who did it?

---
