---
author:
  name: HaleyFiege
  picture: 112391
body: 'Many people would argue that we should just simply type "!?" or "?!" However,
  then the question arises: Is this statement more of a question or an exclamation?
  The [[interrobang]] obliterates the need to distinguish between the two.'
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "The problem with the conventional [[interrobang]] -- and maybe one of the
    reasons it never gained acceptance -- is that it is an extremely awkward form.
    My favorite solution is in Christian Schwartz's <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/singles/font_bureau/amplitude_black/?&sample_text=%C3%B7&sample_size=196&acs_pt=32&update=0&affid=99346\">Amplitude</a>
    and <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/singles/font_bureau/fritz_robusto/&sample_text=\xF7&sample_size=196\">Fritz</a>."
  children:
  - author:
      name: fontplayer
      picture: 111445
    body: "> Christian Schwartz\u2019s Amplitude and Fritz.\r\n\r\nI had never seen
      that version before, but I agree. It is much more comfortable looking."
    created: '2007-05-24 21:23:50'
  created: '2007-05-24 21:01:00'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Many times when I use an exclamation point followed by a question mark I
    am being emphatic. However, there isn''t always humor attached to the emphasis.
    I find most interrobang designs to be a little on the odd and silly side. '
  created: '2007-05-24 21:27:17'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "That's a good point, Tiff.  I also wonder if the lack of popularity of the
    interrobang isn't also because it's (relatively) recent -- my Webster's shows
    a first citation of 1967, and even a source as august as Chicago lumps \"interrogative
    point\" in with \"question mark.\"\r\n\r\nPerhaps the fact that it really doesn't
    \"do\" anything radically different than the marks we've already got, and, at
    least to me (YMMV), it's not something terribly intuitive from a handwriting aspect
    either."
  created: '2007-05-24 21:37:52'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: I think it has real potential for internet short hand. I would personally
    probably use it daily if it wasn't so hard to key in.
  created: '2007-05-24 23:39:48'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: So much new punctuation! We already have the <a href="http://typophile.com/node/28817">snark</a>
    (period with tilde above), which has <a href="http://www.mufi.info/specs/">medieval
    origins</a>, revived here on Typophile by Choz Cunningham.
  created: '2007-05-25 01:28:33'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "The snark. That is bound to take off. The interrobang is just rather useless,
    I would never user it!!\r\n\r\n-----------------------\r\nChopper Reid says \"Harden
    the fuck up\".\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-25 03:33:11'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "Are you trying to be funny.~\u203D"
  created: '2007-05-25 04:15:06'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Well, that shows it doesn\u2019t work in Georgia.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-05-25 12:24:38'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite>HaleyFiege: However, then the question arises: Is this statement more
    of a question or an exclamation? The interrobang obliterates the need to distinguish
    between the two.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is precisely the problem with the interrobang.
    The two need to be distinguished. It makes a difference whether you punctuate
    !? or ?! The two are not the same. \r\n\r\nThe first (!?) is an exclamation that's
    being questioned, often indicating a sarcastic, sardonic, or self-deprecating
    tone. <em>\"Typophile is going to start allowing animated flash avatars. Hurray!?\"</em>
    \r\n\r\nThe second order (?!) denotes a question that is being emphasized. <em>\"Typophile
    is going to start allowing animated flash avatars. What the f***?!\"</em>\r\n\r\nBy
    far the more common need is the latter (?!), but the design of the interrobang
    makes it look more like the former.\r\n\r\nPunctuation is intended to clarify
    meaning. The interrobang does just the opposite.\r\n\r\nBesides, it clots terribly
    in text settings.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-25 14:10:04'
- author:
    name: haloosinayeshun
  body: bring it back!
  created: '2007-05-25 16:39:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Coincidentally, I was recently interviewed about the interrobang for a programme
    on CBC radio. The programme, about changing punctuation practices, can be heard
    here: http://www.cbc.ca/andsometimesy/pastshows.html?episode18\r\n\r\nAs I say
    in the interview, and as I've explained at some length in previous Typophile discussions
    on the subject, I don't consider the interrobang a punctuation mark, because it
    doesn't mark a grammatical structure. It's a kind of extra-grammatical and informal
    expressive mark.\r\n\r\nHaley writes, re !? and ?!: <em>the question arises: Is
    this statement more of a question or an exclamation?</em>\r\n\r\nIn fact, this
    question never arises, because grammatically a question and an exclamation are
    entirely distinct, and in English the punctuation marks ! and ? are most often
    only aids to reading. The distinction can almost always be determined from word
    order:\r\n\r\n'How big is that dog?' vs 'How big that dog is!'\r\n\r\nThe first
    is a question and the second is an exclamation. Note that these marks are the
    only grammatically correct ways to terminate these two sentences. The exclamation
    mark is not simply a kind of louder or more emphatic full stop: 'How big that
    dog is.' would be incorrect because the sentence is grammatically an exclamation.\r\n\r\nThe
    punctuation marks only become essential to comprehension when the utterance is
    truncated to a sentence fragment:\r\n\r\n'How big?' vs. 'How big!'"
  created: '2007-05-25 19:08:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "John: <em>...grammatically a question and an exclamation are entirely distinct..</em>\r\n\r\nHow
    about the sports commentator who says \"How big is that goal?!\"\r\n\r\nGrammatically,
    it's not a real question, because it doesn't call for an answer; it's a <em>rhetorical</em>
    question, but doesn't a rhetorical usage require the proper mark?"
  created: '2007-05-25 22:28:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I'd be inclined to punctuate 'How big is that goal!' with an exclamation
    mark, because it is really an exclamation about how big the goal is, not a question,
    even though the word order is that of a question.\r\n\r\nBut most rhetorical questions
    are simply questions, and are punctuated with the question mark. We don't have
    separate question marks for rhetorical and non-rhetorical questions because there
    is no <em>grammatical</em> difference between them. A lot of people seem to want
    a kind of extra grammatical text marking, e.g. to indicate excitement or irony
    or rhetorical usage, but that's not the system we have. We use punctuation to
    help us comprehend the structure of text, not the use of text. [Articulating the
    use of text is one of the things for which we use typographic variation, setting
    things in italic or bold, or at differen sizes to signal different kinds of information
    or different levels of stress or importance.]"
  created: '2007-05-26 01:33:20'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I think I am with Kent & John on this. The interobang is the grapmatical
    typographical equivalent of bold italic underlined. It almost certainly isn't
    really needed even if you can do it. And if you really do there is always the
    two glyph combination. \r\n\r\nI would also make the technical point that it would
    be better & more practical to simply kern two standard glyphs (or make a special
    one if you really need to) in order to solve what the interobang supposedly solves.\r\n\r\nIn
    a related vein; it seems to me ( and actually I would welcome counterarguement
    here ) that making a ff or ffl or fi ligature out of two or three glyphs kerned
    into a ligature is preferable to one glyph because they can be designed to 'degrade'
    from the original design more elegantly when automatically spaced in various ways
    than a single fixed ligature glyph can.\r\n\r\nBut the point made earlier by Haley
    about the Interobang being hard to access is I think the most salient point. You
    can cheer or boo as you like but it doesn't matter. It isn't going to get traction
    because it's not on the keyboard."
  created: '2007-05-26 03:08:50'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: I had no idea of the existance of the interrobang, but personally I just use
    "?!" or "!?" depending on how the sentence is formulated and what its purpose
    is (like some previous posters already illustrated, it's not only used in "real"
    questions & the "?!"/"!?" should be used accordingly).
  created: '2007-05-26 14:12:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Tom, can you explain exactly how, maybe with examples, you differentiate use
    of '!?' and '?!'?
  created: '2007-05-27 04:32:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>hard to access</em>\r\n\r\nEnterprising foundries could make it a \"ligature\"
    in an OT font, so that when you type !? or ?! you get the interrobang. "
  created: '2007-05-27 05:07:42'
- author:
    name: dishdesigner
    picture: 111471
  body: "One interesting and functional example of existing usage of the interrobang
    comes from algebraic notation systems for chess games. See the <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Algebraic_chess_notation\">Wikipedia
    article</a>.\r\n\r\nThe following short-hand notations are frequently used to
    comment moves:\r\n\r\n    ! - a good move\r\n    !! - an excellent move\r\n    ?
    - a mistake\r\n    ?? - a blunder\r\n    !? - an interesting move that may not
    be best\r\n    ?! - a dubious move, but not easily refuted\r\n    \u25A1 - only
    legal move from this position (forced)\r\n\r\nSo, a whole series of moves and
    countermoves might look like:\r\nWhite / Black\r\n1. e4 / d5\r\n2. exd5 / Nf6\r\n3.
    d4 / Bg4\r\n4. Bb5+ / c6?!\r\n5. dxc6! / Bxd1?\r\n6. c7+ / Qd7??\r\n7. c8Q#\t(#
    denoting checkmate)"
  created: '2007-05-27 05:13:41'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Well, to use the example of the goal, I would use \"!?\" since it's a rhetorical
    question more used to emphasize the size of the goal & not actually respecting
    a response in measurements: \"How big is that goal!?\". When baffled at something,
    I'd write \"What the f*** what th\xE0t?!\". But I have to admit though that I
    use languages as they please me & sometimes deliberaltey \"break the rules\" when
    I don't find them appropriate (eg. I've recently read in a styleguide of Dutch
    that one should use single quotiation marks solely unless actually quoating someone,
    I always use he double quotation marks; another example is again about emphasizing...
    when emphasizing a word in Dutch you always have to use the accent aigu, but I
    use my accents according to their phonetical purpose)."
  created: '2007-05-27 10:11:27'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "The only problem with the premise of exclamations and interrogatives as simply
    grammatical structures, is that punctuation is part of (written) language, and
    hence, living. Were they <em>only</em> to function to explain grammar, they would
    be redundant. Yes, they can do that, but they really do evoke inflection, tone
    or even subtext. Just like the unending sea of alternate spellings and neologisms,
    if that's not the intention or origin of punctuation, it is still the vox populi.\r\n\r\nThe
    interrobang's problem is that either !? and ?! do the job well enough for regular
    Joe (where it needs to be clearly more ? or!, they'll just drop the weaker), and
    it is just not elegant enough for the letterati. Designers far more talented than
    I make funky underdotted Ps when trying to cram the old i-bang into a text face.\r\n\r\nAfter
    my bias for the snark, I have to say I love the \"wtf\" lig. The grace of the
    form clashes deliciously with the meaning."
  created: '2007-05-27 11:37:22'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>Enterprising foundries could make it a \u201Cligature\u201D in an OT
    font, so that when you type !? or ?! you get the interrobang.</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    would be a really bad idea. What about the (majority[?] of) people that don't
    want to see what they typed transformed into the interrobang? One could argue
    that 'ligatures' could (perhaps) be turned off, but still... The interrobang has
    earned its one codepoint, so we better use it, for the sake of having the message
    correctly encoded."
  created: '2007-05-27 13:41:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Choz, we <em>use</em> combinations of ?! and ?! to evoke inflection, tone
    or subtext, but my point is that in so doing we are using these marks as something
    other than punctuation. We don''t use , : ; . etc. for those purposes. It is only
    ! that we have loaded with an extra-grammatical, expressive function. Personally,
    I think the reason for this is that the majority of primary school teachers no
    longer teach grammar in any systematic way, and couldn''t explain the construction
    of an exclamation. So one ends up with silly explanations like ''! means something
    said loudly or emphatically'': the mark is now taught as an expressive mark and
    not as a punctuation mark.'
  created: '2007-05-27 16:49:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Miguel: <em>That would be a really bad idea.</em>\r\n\r\nThank you for taking
    my suggestion seriously.\r\nAfter all, I didn't add a smiley (which also has its
    own codepoint).\r\nHowever, I didn't intend it as a definitive recommendation;
    for instance, I didn't specify whether it should be a standard (default) or discretionary
    ligature.\r\nSo it was half in jest, open-ended, let's see where it leads.\r\nBy
    \"enterprising\", the implication is that not every font from every foundry has
    to play by the rules of correctly encoding characters. So such a font may make
    the ?!-to-interrobang ligature a default ligature, as a feature.\r\n\r\nOne of
    the difficulties of setting unusual characters is how to find the damn things
    in a massive OpenType glyph palette. Even before, it was a hassle to find the
    inch mark in the Symbol font. So little things like making the interrobang a Discretionary
    Ligature, and the inch mark a Stylistic Alternate of \", should help typographers.
    \r\n\r\nJohn: <em>because it is really an exclamation about how big the goal is,
    not a question, </em>\r\n\r\nCan it be both? In many converstions, one person
    makes an exclamation, signifying their opinion, but also asking the other person's.
    So one commentator says \"How big is that goal?!\" and the other replies, \"It's
    big, but they haven't won the game yet.\"\r\n\r\nPerhaps more to the point, is
    it really necessary to have two punctuation characters compressed into one? Maybe
    not, but there are plenty of precedents! (; : \u2026)\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-27 18:26:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Can it be both? In many converstions, one person makes an exclamation,
    signifying their opinion, but also asking the other person\u2019s. So one commentator
    says \u201CHow big is that goal?!\u201D and the other replies, \u201CIt\u2019s
    big, but they haven\u2019t won the game yet.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nIs the second replying
    to the question, or simply making a further observation? It seems to me that both
    commentators are simply saying, in different ways, that it is a 'big' goal, one
    via a rhetorical question and the other with a plain statement (and appended caveat).
    The second commentator isn't treating the first's question as if it were anything
    other than rhetorical: he isn't trying to express in some quantitative terms just
    how big the goal is. In any case, sports commentators, despite their banter, are
    not really engaged in conversation with each other: they're talking at the invisible
    audience.\r\n\r\nNow let's image a novelist writing a scene in which two sports
    commentators make these comments. Is there anything really conveyed by\r\n\r\n'How
    big is that goal?!'\r\n'It's big, but they haven't won the game yet.'\r\n\r\nthat
    is not conveyed by \r\n\r\n'How big is that goal!'\r\n'It's big, but they haven't
    won the game yet.'\r\n\r\nIn fact, I would argue that the latter punctuation,
    by making clear that the statement is an exclamation, conveys more of the excitement
    of the match than the addition of the question mark, which, as Tom noted above,
    may express bafflement.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-27 19:52:15'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "When reading, aloud or to myself, I apply \"voice\" (inflection/tone/etc.)
    to other punctuation: extended preceding syllable and a quick dramatic pause to
    a comma, longer to a colon, a hurried whisper to parentheses, a meandering fade
    to ellipsis, and a pitch shift to a question. The exclamation is hardly exceptional
    for having a vocal insinuation.\r\n\r\nIn Spanish, the preceding inverted question
    mark was created to serve a pointedly grammatical function. A sentence may very
    often be declarative or interrogative with the exact same words. Here the marks
    are grammar marks because they define an otherwise unknown element of the sentence.
    (I suspect the inverted exclamation was folk use to appear consistent.)\r\n\r\nIn
    English, however, questions are almost always discernible without the '?'. So,
    is the current function just a reminder that there was an \"asking word\" earlier
    on? A quaint leftover from another time? Why not just reserve it for ambiguous
    wordings? Likewise, if you comprehend the words, the exclamation mark's only remaining
    value is it's voice.\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\nDid anyone ever notice that they use more
    word problems in math books for public schools at the same time that they continue
    to reduce sentence diagramming and grammar lessons in general?\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\nOn
    a related note, I usually map the interrobang to point redundantly at the glyph:
    !? That solves the aesthetic problems for me, and I think my font fan base has
    never-ever-ever commented on the subject."
  created: '2007-05-28 01:36:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Choz, you explain how you impose an intonation in reading -- in ways that
    I find rather mannered, but who am I to tell you how to read --, but associating
    particular or even idiosyncratuc vocal intonations with punctuation marks serving
    their usual grammatical functions in text -- dividing clauses, making clear the
    organisation of thoughts -- is different from using a punctuation mark in a non-grammatical
    way in order to signal a particular intonation.
  created: '2007-05-28 06:22:28'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Isn't the particular intonation just a symbol of the exclamation to express
    immediacy, relative to other expressions?\r\n\r\nDo you have more written elsewhere,
    or links to look at showing more of your hypothesis?\r\n\r\nOMG, listening to
    that radio show. \"Punk'd, punk'd punctuation\". Thats the sort of line that gets
    co-opted by the other side."
  created: '2007-05-28 16:02:20'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Choz, If I understand what John is saying he is stressing the role of puncuation
    as an aide to meaning via grammer etc - as opposed to some kind of match of or
    notation for vocal inflection. Obviously the two are related but even so I think
    his emphasis is right. Trying to match the vocal range in letterforms and punctuation
    is a little bit of a fools erand once you begin dividing things too finely. One
    you start, where do you stop? I don't want to see texts littered with !!?!! &
    !!? & ?!!! Moreover I just don't think we get much from '?!' or '!?' except in
    rare circumstances. Of the two, I am more sympathetic to '?!' to denote a stongly
    felt interjection. Probably because I read it in comic books as a kid. And I would
    prefer not to see an interobang pretty much ever again. At least in English anyway.
    Maybe someone will change my mind... but you can count on me a skeptic for now.
  created: '2007-05-28 21:05:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Eben, thanks. Yes, punctuation is fundamentally a system for indicating the
    structure and organisation of written thoughts, most importantly by identifying
    the relationship of clauses. The marks used are conventional, i.e. the shape of
    the little mark that we call a comma is recognised by convention, but what they
    signify are structures of language, which are not conventional (or not wholly
    conventional). Over time, the use of punctuation varies, but this generally doesn't
    mean that the linguistic structures are changing -- we're still using the same
    kind of clauses in the same kinds of relationships --, but only that we conventionally
    mark or do not mark particular structures, according to something like fashion
    or individual taste. Some punctuation is discretionary, e.g. when we can understand
    the text equally well with or without a comma in a particular place, and depends
    on the prose style of the author or editor; other punctuation is essential for
    avoiding ambiguity or enabling the reader to easily make sense of complex sentences.
    This is the primary role of punctuation.\r\n\r\nThere is a secondary role, which
    is as a guide to pause and intonation when reading aloud (in which category I
    include reading aloud in your head, which is sometimes necessary if one wants
    to avoid embarassment when reading poetry or plays on the bus). But this role
    is not only secondary to the grammatical function of punctuation, it is also entirely
    conventional and ultimately exterior to writing, i.e. it is an interpretative
    imposition on the text. Punctuation is useful as a guide to pause and intonation
    because both punctuation and intonation are ultimately concerned with expressing
    the thoughts contained in and organised through the text. But punctuation isn't
    necessary to intonation, and if one were to mark up a text in order to indicate
    as fully as possible the desired intervals and intonation, one would very quickly
    exhaust and need to surpass the limited usefulness of common punctuation marks.
    Full notation of pause and intonation would resemble something like musical notation.\r\n\r\nChoz,
    you described above the kind of intonation you associate with different punctuation
    marks. I think it would be interesting to record you reading a passage aloud,
    and to analyse just how regular these associations are. My guess is that they
    are a lot less regular than you imagine, and that, for instance, what your voice
    does at a comma will vary considerably depending on how the comma is being used,
    i.e. the kind of clauses it is separating and their relationship to each other
    and to the overall structure of the sentence. We read the meaning of a text --
    giving emphasis through stress, pause and speed to articulate thought -- not the
    punctuation as if it were a musical score."
  created: '2007-05-28 23:02:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "What is the grammatical purpose served by an exclamation point that could
    not be served just as well by a period or comma?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-28 23:40:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "An exclamation is a particular class of sentence, sentence fragment or interjection,
    usually associated with heightened emotive expression. Note that I have not distinguished
    the exclamation from a sentence, such as might be terminated by a period, only
    from a question. Grammatically, exclamations <em>could</em> could be terminated
    by period, but we've developed a punctuation system that gives them their own
    sign, because we've found this 'adds value' to our writing and avoids ambiguity.
    One of the principle values of the exclamation mark is that it allows us to distinguish
    between actual questions and similarly phrased exclamations, which are a feature
    of our rhetoric. This is why I find a pseudo punctuation mark that conflates interrogation
    with exclamation silly: it undermines the function of the independent signs.\r\n\r\nIf
    we consider, again, those examples above, it should be clear that we read \r\n\r\n'How
    big is that goal?'\r\n\r\ndifferently from\r\n\r\n'How big is that goal!'\r\n\r\neven
    though the words and the word order are identical.\r\n\r\nI don't think we read\r\n\r\n'How
    big is that goal?!',\r\n\r\n'How big is that goal!?',\r\n\r\nor\r\n\r\n'How big
    is that goal\u203D'\r\n\r\nsignificantly different from\r\n\r\n'How big is that
    goal!',\r\n\r\ni.e. as an exclamation.\r\n\r\nBut we may well read\r\n\r\n'How
    big is that goal?'\r\n\r\ndifferently, and that seems to me a good test of what
    kind of utterance we're dealing with.\r\n\r\n'How big is that goal?'\r\n\r\nis
    a question.\r\n\r\n'How big is that goal?!',\r\n\r\n'How big is that goal!?',\r\n\r\n'How
    big is that goal\u203D',\r\n\r\nand\r\n\r\n'How big is that goal!'\r\n\r\nare
    all exclamations, and therefore adequately punctuated with !\r\n\r\n'How big is
    that goal.'\r\n\r\nis ambiguous, since the structure is that of a question but
    the punctuation not clearly indicative, in our system, of an exclamation. Therefore,
    we may consider it incorrectly punctuated."
  created: '2007-05-29 04:45:48'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: How 'bout those Ducks?!
  created: '2007-05-29 05:30:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "John: <em>I don\u2019t think we read\r\n\u2018How big is that goal?!\u2019,\r\n\u2018How
    big is that goal!?\u2019,\r\nor\r\n\u2018How big is that goal\u203D\u2019\r\nsignificantly
    different from\r\n\u2018How big is that goal!\u2019,</em>\r\n\r\nI think we do.
    \r\nAnd the difference becomes apparent if the exchange is completed:\r\n\r\n\"How
    big is that goal?!\"\r\n\"It's big, but they haven't won the game yet.\"\r\n\r\nThis
    is a rhetorical question being answered, which is what happens in conversation
    (though not when addressing a reader or an audience).\r\nSo it makes more sense
    than:\r\n\r\n\"How big is that goal!\"\r\n\"It's big, but they haven't won the
    game yet.\"\r\n\r\n--which is a non-question being answered.\r\n\r\nIf exclamation
    marks didn't exist,\r\n\r\n\"How big is that goal?\"\r\n\"It's big, but they haven't
    won the game yet.\"\r\n\r\n--would suffer a loss of meaning, because the partly
    rhetorical quality of the question is absent. So in transcripts of conversation,
    an exclamation mark can provide a purely grammatical function (not just to \"express
    heightened emotion\"), when used in conjunction with a question mark.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-29 06:10:27'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "\" How big is that goal\u203D \"\r\n\r\nAnd here is the problem. There <em>may</em>
    be a theoretical benefit in the interrobang. However, I had to zoom the text size
    3x to see what that blotch was, in a thread about it. Yes, it is late here. Nevertheless,
    that's a weak graphic.\r\n\r\nI wish it worked, it is a neat idea. Something to
    reserve exclusively for display faces, at best?"
  created: '2007-05-29 06:50:59'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "After being offline for a few days, I've had a lot to catch up on, so I apologize
    in advance for not directing my post to the original posters or refering to them.\r\nIt's
    been interesting to read how people here seem to have different uses of punctuation.
    Personally, I can not have enough variation & room to play with it since I feel
    the purpose of punctuation is to highlight the \"feel\" of the sentence.\r\nOn
    the other hand -as contradictory as this may sound- in my own texts (non prose),
    I only use , ; & : in de middle of sentences, but never any kind of punctuation
    to close the sentence. Someone wrote about the ? that in English (& other languages)
    it is pretty much redundant because the construction of the phrase already indicates
    the question. Still, I think punctuation -as redundant as it may be under certain
    curcumstances- still adds to a text, but maybe that's because I'm a sensitive
    person & I can never have enough words to express myself & punctuation to emphasize
    them.\r\nThe paradox in all this is that in the texts I write which are all very
    personal/emotional, I don't use any punctuation at all (unless a , ; : to divide
    a sentence & only when it's not redundant) & I can honoustly not say why... I
    conveniently call this \"artistic freedom\", but maybe I'm just trying to get
    the reader to make its own assumptions & interpretations?"
  created: '2007-05-29 07:43:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>would suffer a loss of meaning, because the partly rhetorical quality
    of the question is absent. So in transcripts of conversation, an exclamation mark
    can provide a purely grammatical function (not just to \u201Cexpress heightened
    emotion\u201D), when used in conjunction with a question mark.</em>\r\n\r\nNo,
    that is not a grammatical function, it is an extra-grammatical, rhetorical function.
    Rhetoric and grammar are different things. What you have demonstrated is what
    I wrote right at the beginning of this discussion: that ! when combined with ?
    is being used as an expressive mark, not as a punctuation mark. A rhetorical question
    is grammatically identical to any other question, and it is only in the conventions
    of rhetoric that we generally understand that it does not expect a reply.\r\n\r\nTom:
    <em>Personally, I can not have enough variation & room to play with it since I
    feel the purpose of punctuation is to highlight the \u201Cfeel\u201D of the sentence.</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    punctuation marks will not give you the variation and 'room to play' that you
    want, because they belong to a system whose purpose is indicate what a sentence
    <em>thinks</em> not what it feels. As I wrote above, if you wanted to capture
    visually in text the nuances of articulation, you would need something akin to
    musical notation."
  created: '2007-05-30 06:17:53'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Punctuation surely has its limits (hence the remark that I can not have enough
    variation), but it is a tool that -when used creatively, not necessarely correctly-
    can actually be of help to give an extra zing to your words. I find it stimulating
    to try and get my feelings across in written language as much as in spoken language.
    I agree with you, there will never be enough punctuation marks for the entire
    spectrum of human emotions, but it's a start. I consider limitation (along with
    laziness) the mother of creativity. Even in my work I deliberately limit myself,
    set "style bounderies" for each design I do, just to not get overwhelmed with
    choice and to keep consistancy in the end product. Choice is good, but if the
    balance of supply and demand shifts to an oversaturation in supply a blessing
    can easily become a curse (after all, the circle's ends meet again at the two
    extremes). Once past the point of enough, it becomes too much. It's the western
    modern day disease, but in case of punctuation marks I don't think we have anything
    to worry about. So for now, I can not have enough variation. By the time the variation
    in punctuation marks becomes enough to cover the basic human emotions (which is
    still a long way from here & a road that will probably never be walked), the danger
    of oversaturation lurks around the corner. Luckily enough, human beings are complex
    enough -even in their basic emotions- to prevent that from ever happening ;-)
  created: '2007-05-30 07:31:56'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "The notion that that punctuation is grammatical by nature and that the \"scoring\"
    of the text is a second, subservient affair is the part where I am suspicious.
    Nick posed a question I almost asked. The mass acceptance of the exclamation mark
    as a valid punctuation seems to fly in the face of the grammar-first approach,
    if it only exists to intone.\r\n\r\nRhetorical and grammatical are absolutely
    different things. But I am not convinced that punctuation lives in one world (or
    belongs rightly to it), but not the other.I suspect that both sides of the brain
    must be satisfied to make a mark of punctuation sustainable. Is there other media
    anyone knows of to expand on these ideas? If anyone is looking for a thesis proposal,
    have fun with this.\r\n\r\nI've had the unpleasant task of listening to recordings
    of my own voice, particularly in variations of the same work, when preparing for
    live performance. There is a consistency to my own treatment of punctuation as
    a notation. There may be some improvisation, and the overall tempo is arbitrary,
    but within one piece a colon has a distinct affect unlike a semicolon, for example.
    I would even say that these, along with text variants and layout are the score
    to the words. Would you read and \"feel\" a letter the same way with indented,
    inline and left block paragraphs? Context and commentary could provide all the
    needed cues to any exclamations or questions,but would it be the same? "
  created: '2007-05-31 05:59:55'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "> Rhetorical and grammatical are absolutely different things.\r\nI agree
    these are 2 (very) different things, but it's always interesting when 2 worlds
    collide or blend. I think both (can) have an influence on each other, but as every
    linguistic issue, much of it lies in the hands of the user. I've never been much
    of a reader (comics aside), but I've always been fond of language & as it happens
    I recently got back in touch with my old high school English & Dutch teacher.
    We met last week & spent over 6 hours discussing both the Dutch & English language.
    It really struck me that even people with the appropriate academic background
    can still be baffled within their field of expertise. But isn't that what makes
    our languages interesting? To find your own way to express yourself within the
    grammar & a whole bunch of extra unwritten rules? To bend and shape it within
    these bounderies to best fit your personality & to see how other people do this?\r\nLike
    I said in another post, I do even \"break\" the rules every now & then when I
    find it more suitable for my expression. But the fact that there's so much aspects
    to language makes that even this can be seen as merely bending the rules. A perfect
    example for this is my use of accents for emphasis; I'm breaking the rule of always
    having to use the accent aigu, but on the other hand I have the phonetic rules
    to back me up on this & give me a valid excuse to do so. Artistic freedom has
    now -more than ever- become a big part in the use of our language (what with the
    internet & cell phones and all) & it's just pure fun to play with it.\r\nAnother
    thing we (my ex teacher and I) talked about is that -probably due to the same
    factors that have inspired artistic freedom- the language of our own mother tongue
    has increasingly worsened in just a few years time (I graduated 10 years ago to
    give you a reference) & that it's probably just a matter of time before it is
    attuned to the level of the next generation. For instance, one of the major issues
    with today's students is that they make a lot of mistakes in the use of verbs
    in the past time. In Dutch we have \"strong\" (also called irregular) & \"weak\"
    verbs who -depending on what they are- may or may not change vowels in the past
    time (strong verbs change -hence the alternative term irregular- whereas weak
    verbs keep the vowel(s) from their infinitive). I foresee a dismissal of the disctinction
    between strong & weak verbs & a future with only weak verbs. Darwin's survival
    of the fittest theory doens't apply to languages. On the contrary, in time things
    that are now considered incorrect will actually become the standard norm. In the
    past 20 years our language (Dutch that is) has already undergone 2 changes of
    which the first one was quite drastic. This evolution will continue as long as
    people are still using the language. A language is by definition a tool for expression
    & therefor bendable to fit the moment. I haven't seen any changes of punctuation
    however, but I can imagine that this is also just a matter of time assuming people
    will \"play\" with it enough. Or maybe a \"wrong\" use of punctuation will always
    be considered a form of artistic freedom? Time will tell..."
  created: '2007-05-31 10:17:07'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "\"Darwin\u2019s survival of the fittest theory doens\u2019t apply to languages.
    On the contrary, in time things that are now considered incorrect will actually
    become the standard norm.\"\r\n\r\nThat sounds exactly like natural selection
    to me. The environment of culture, ideas and communication needs changes. Language
    and writing are constantly mutating. The most useful innovations will survive,
    while others will make us go, \"what on earth was I thinking?\""
  created: '2007-05-31 15:31:58'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: What I meant by that is that language indeed constantly changes, but not always
    for the better... In Dutch at least I can foresee the language "dumbening" just
    in order to fit the next generations disability to use it correctly now. That
    way, less people will make mistakes, but if you'll look at the (d)evolution, you'll
    notice that the language will actually have to "stoop down" to the overall lower
    level of future generations. The language has to give up a lot of its rules and
    therefor becomes less "rich". In my view, it's proof that the weaker one wins
    the battle.
  created: '2007-05-31 15:55:58'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "It is commonly assumed that evolution progresses towards a goal. or that
    it has a positive future outcome and stumbles irregularly towards that. While
    Devo and Idiocracy were interesting entertainment, nature is much less interested
    in our higher selves that we are, and has no grand philosophical design for us
    to aspire to. So, as long as it works, things will continue to trend towards \"dumbing
    down\".\r\n\r\nSome of each generation will continue to fight to be interesting,
    quirky or special, with lessening degrees of success, but until humanity's environments
    trend towards isolated cultures again (if ever) life will be generally more homogeneous
    every day.\r\n\r\nMy apologies to those who are bothered by how far off-topic
    this is. :)"
  created: '2007-05-31 16:29:35'
date: '2007-05-24 20:47:57'
files:
- filename: Yeswecan.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/Yeswecan.jpg
node_type: forum
title: Bring back the Interrobang

---
