---
author:
  name: BrooklynRob
  picture: 110975
body: "Hello\r\nWhich version of Century is best, in your opinion? Is there a good
  version with small caps?\r\nI'm also wondering if people think it looks dated. I
  really like it and actually think it looks contemporary in some ways, but I've had
  other people tell me it looks old-fashioned to them.\r\nThanks for any thoughts
  you have..."
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, it is pretty old-fashioned. Which can be useful however, depending.\r\n\r\nYou
    should be able to find another font that carries whatever\r\nyou feel is contemporary
    about it, without the moldy baggage.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-26 17:03:26'
- author:
    name: If Not4George
    picture: 112516
  body: "Rob,\r\n\r\nIf it makes you feel any better, I have an ongoing debate with
    a couple of my typoholic buddies about this very subject. I agree that Century
    feels somewhat contemporary, and I just don't see the \"moldy baggage\" that my
    friends and Hrant continue to point out. So I guess the point of this being, we
    may be wrong, but at least we're not alone :)\r\n\r\nHrant, could you suggest
    a font that Rob and I might find an acceptable replacement for Century? Thanks!"
  created: '2007-05-26 22:51:49'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "> Hrant, could you suggest a font that Rob and I might find an \r\n> acceptable
    replacement for Century? Thanks!\r\n\r\nYeah, that would be great.\r\n\r\nI like
    Century, especially the Expanded (why ever it\u2019s called so).\r\nIt certainly
    gives anything you do with it that retro look.\r\nAn update of Century and even
    more of Clarendon would be great, even greater when done by H&FJ maybe."
  created: '2007-05-26 23:05:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, Stephen & Co. are better at this sort of thing. But maybe if you figured
    out\r\nwhat in Century looks contemporary to you I could help find something better.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-27 01:27:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Personally, I''ve always liked Century Schoolbook. The original Century was
    drawn by Linn Boyd Benton. To me it isn''t as good at the later Century Expanded
    and Schoolbook drawn by his son Morris Fuller Benton. '
  created: '2007-05-27 01:53:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I like Century Schoolbook too.\r\nBut tellingly I happen to know that I'm
    old-fashioned.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-27 02:08:55'
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: "I'm also a taker for Century Schoolbook. And i don't think it looks dated,
    I'm convinced that no typeface does look dated per se, it all depends how a typeface
    is used and in what (formal) context. ( I do admit that there are typefaces that
    are more likely to look dated/old-fashioned than others, but there's no absolute
    IMO)\r\nIn other words, I wouldn't be put off from using a face because somebody
    says it looked dated to them, i'd rather understand this as a challenge to use
    it in a way that doesn't make it appear old-fashioned*. If somebody said the way
    i use it or my design looked dated, THAT would make me think tho.\r\n\r\n* Unless
    an old-fashioned look is required, but that's a completely different story."
  created: '2007-05-27 12:32:05'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Century was of course commissioned for <cite>Century</cite> magazine. I don't
    know, but imagine it was a multi-column format, to explain how condensed the original
    \"Century\" font was. It was just too condensed for single-column texts such as
    books, so an expanded version was made quite a bit later (\"expanded\" only in
    comparison to the original). This was the \"Century\" font most often selected
    for book work. I don't know about the linecaster days, but it did have small caps
    in the Linotron 202 format. I think it didn't have old-style figures, but I don't
    really remember.\r\n\r\nBut the best \"Century\" for bookwork was Primer, which
    did have small caps and old-style figures. P.J. Conkwright selected it for Princeton's
    Thoreau books. Bitstream has a sort-of revival (Century 751?), but as I remember,
    it was a typical Type 1 font with no small caps, os figs, etc., and not particularly
    well done. I tried to make a version of Primer, and while it was OK, it just didn't
    have the magic of Ruzicka's Primer in metal. But I'm a comp first & text interior
    designer second. If any true font designer were to make a good Primer, I think
    it would be welcome.\r\n\r\nAs to being dated -- Depends. If you're trying to
    impress other designers or marketing managers, probably so. I was at a meeting
    last week, where it came out that for some presses, the marketing manager had
    final say on book jacket designs. Turns out that for a number of them, a \"good
    jacket\" is one which will sell when placed in an airport terminal. That few university
    press books are sold in airport terminals seems to have escaped them.\r\n\r\nIf
    you're trying to help an author connect with a reader, of course Century isn't
    dated. On the other hand, Century Expanded was one of those fonts that didn't
    survive the move from the Linotron 202 to PostScript -- like so many others.\r\n\r\nWith
    the Linotron 202 fonts, Century Schoolbook worked for text with about a 9-point
    setting. It is aother of those fonts that worked well in one or two sizes & IMSLTH
    opinion, not others."
  created: '2007-05-27 13:58:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Century Schoolbook is an extremely wide font, so I can see that it might
    not be suitable for books except at very small size. \r\n\r\nHowever, when an
    extremely readable, wide type is suitable, it can work admirably. For example,
    the Government Accounting Office here puts out reports on letter sized paper (8
    1/2 x 11), which is always a problem. Their solution is to use Century Schoolbook
    with wide margins. This to me is a pretty good solution, and results in extremely
    readable reports. \r\n\r\nThe layout is a bit old-fashioned 'modernist', but still
    it delivers the goods admirably well. <a href=\"http://www.cherrycommission.org/docs/Resources/Completion/GAO%20Completion%20report.pdf\">Here
    is one example</a>.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-27 14:15:51'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nAs to Century Schoolbook & book composition: it may be the width
    of the letterforms, but I think it is a bit more, particularly their weight. I've
    specified Schoolbook once or twice, and set a few more books where it was specified
    by other designers, but it has been quite a while. When you specify a type size,
    some designers at least are looking at \"the color of the page,\" which includes
    a number of relationships, character fit, word spacing, line spacing, margins,
    and of course the type itself. For some reason, Schoolbook seems to \"snap\" with
    a nominal 6x9 trim & 24-26 pica measure in around a 9-point setting.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, that's old school (i.e., dated). Nowadays, any font is OK if you specify
    it 10/15, unless you can sneak 9/15 by the people who have to sign off on the
    design.   "
  created: '2007-05-27 14:34:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">color of the page\r\n\r\nI also feel that this is a critical factor--which
    is why I think optical sizing is so important if the design is to work at different
    sizes. \r\n\r\nBecause Century Schoolbook is so unusual in its width and, as you
    point out, weight, it may only work well in very special situations. But it may
    work very well then. \r\n\r\nPersonally, this style of design, which I think of
    as a variety of 'Scotch', is not one I am that fond of aesthetically. I should
    have written above that I \"admire\" Century Schoolbook rather than really like
    it. It is admirably well executed. The only scotch I really like in print is Caledonia,
    but maybe it crucially departs--I haven't studied it enough to know.\r\n\r\nOn
    the issue of leading, I was very interested to read in Mitchell & Wightman's 'Book
    Typography' that blacker type usually requires more leading to work. Thus Quadraat
    calls for a lot of leading. \r\n\r\nI do prefer the older style in which there
    is less leading and somewhat longer ascenders and descenders. To me the type looks
    more graceful, and it knits the page together better. But working well with tighter
    leading depends on the design of the type."
  created: '2007-05-27 15:17:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> blacker type usually requires more leading to work.\r\n\r\nThis doesn't
    sound right.\r\nThink of how darker fonts need tighter (lateral) spacing.\r\n\r\n>
    I do prefer the older style in which there is less\r\n> leading and somewhat longer
    ascenders and descenders. \r\n\r\nDepends on size.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-27 15:34:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">darker fonts need tighter (lateral) spacing\r\n\r\nI don't think there is
    a generally valid rule. My feeling is that it depends on the design and intended
    size. \r\n\r\n>Depends on size.\r\n\r\nMitchell and Wightman were discussing normal
    book text sizes. "
  created: '2007-05-27 16:01:21'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: This thread is taking an odd twist. Anybody have more thoughts on Primer (aka
    Century improved)?
  created: '2007-05-27 16:08:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it depends on the design and intended size.\r\n\r\nNo, all else being equal,
    darker weights need\r\nless inter-letter spacing. This is very old news.\r\nAnd
    the reason is the most basic: balanced notan.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-27 16:11:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">odd twist\r\n\r\nHere the Talmudic style is followed: the side issues often
    are more important than the topic. I like it, but then I also like the Talmud
    :)\r\n\r\nI haven't seen Primer used, so I don't know. The MyFonts text on it
    is interesting, saying that Chauncy Griffith commissioned it to correct fitting
    problems. As they also say, Primer loses that iconic form of Century Schoolbook.
    \r\n\r\nOf course my feeling about it being 'iconic' may well because I learned
    to read with the 'Dick and Jane' primers, which I believe were in Century Schoolbook. "
  created: '2007-05-27 16:17:35'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>No, all else being equal</cite>\r\n\r\nOK, back to the odd twist.\r\n\r\nYes,
    it depends. I've seen some beautiful 19th century French books, where wide word
    spacing was used -- it was in fashion then. To compensate, the leading was increased,
    as were the margins. The character fit was not tight, but hardly loose. At first
    it looks odd to a modern eye, but the overall balance soon takes over & you don't
    notice it.\r\n\r\nGood balance is more than one parameter, and will to a large
    extent survive a change in fashion."
  created: '2007-05-27 16:28:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Let me try to explain better: If you have a text face in a light weight and
    in a dark weight, the dark weight needs to be spaced tighter than the light weight,
    otherwise it's no longer a text face. This is basic type design stuff.* If we
    are in fact discussing \"normal book text sizes\", then if you stray from a quite
    tight relationship between internal versus external white, you are killing readability.
    No matter what kind of boots you prefer.  Issues of functionality do not make
    those of \"fashion\" moot - in fact the two do need to be balanced, always. But
    let's not pretend that It Doesn't Matter.\r\n\r\n* William: ask Berlow.\r\n\r\nThe
    way this relates to what William wrote about linespacing is that the\r\nsame type
    of thing (although certainly to a lesser degree) probably applies.\r\nAnd it makes
    sense: a darker line holds itself better, so you need less leading.\r\nWhat happens
    to look better to whom in what century is beside the point.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-27 16:38:17'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>this is basic type design stuff.</cite>\r\n\r\nAh, Betty Crocker. OK,
    I'll travel"
  created: '2007-05-27 16:44:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Don't forget a laptop with FontLab on it.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-27 16:46:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">more than one parameter\r\n\r\nThat strikes me as the complex heart of the
    matter. \r\n\r\nThe problem with saying 'other things being equal' is that they
    *can't* be equal when you make a design bolder. You will affect either the width
    of counters or the character as a whole, or both, and you have a choice on how
    to do this. And those choices will affect best spacing.  \r\n\r\nGood balance
    of white and black, or 'notan,' and in particular good letter spacing also depends
    on optical size. "
  created: '2007-05-27 16:47:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "My previous post was cross-posted with Hrant's and Charles's. \r\n\r\n>I'll
    travel. \r\n\r\nPlease stick around. I love to hear your views, as they are based
    on experience and accomplishment, which I really respect. --Not that I will always
    agree :)\r\n\r\nHrant, as a general rule in contemporary type design a bolder
    version of a design is tighter. But then also the bold is not usually intended
    for continuous text, but for titles and emphasis. But the way it's generally done
    now is not necessarily the only way. \r\n\r\n>a darker line holds itself better,
    so you need less leading\r\n\r\nMitchel and Wightman say the opposite: that with
    tight leading the color of the paragraph with dark lines will be too dark, and
    hurt readability. Charles here also notes the great importance of good color,
    which I think is correct. \r\n\r\nTighter word spacing does tend to reduce the
    need for leading, but that is a different (though interacting) variable.  "
  created: '2007-05-27 17:04:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> as a general rule in contemporary type design\r\n> a bolder version of
    a design is tighter.\r\n\r\nMy contention is that it has to do with more than
    just fashion, but how we read. And we're not really talking about using a Bold
    for text, but the general case of how spacing (and leading) relate to weight.
    Think for example of using a Demi of a font for somewhat small text; it should
    be easy to read, and it can't be if it's not tighter than the Regular (assuming
    the Regular is spaced properly of course). I don't know why you're resisting this
    classic axiom.\r\n\r\n> Mitchel and Wightman say the opposite\r\n\r\nWell, yes,
    you just said that, and that's what I was complaining about.\r\n\r\n> the paragraph
    with dark lines will be too dark, and hurt readability.\r\n\r\nI'm not seeing
    how a dark parapraph of itself can hurt readability. I think you're essentially
    talking about aesthetics. And the way I see it, a parapgraph set in dark lines
    with large leading turns into a Modernist's inadvisable wet dream.\r\n\r\n> Charles
    here also notes the great importance of good color\r\n\r\nI'm not seeing how that's
    related.\r\nAnd let's not start about \"good color\" again, eh?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-27 17:25:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William, could you point out some text faces where\r\na darker weight is
    looser than a lighter weight?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-27 17:34:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">let\u2019s not start about \u201Cgood color\u201D again, eh?\r\n\r\nCharles
    mentioned this key factor again, and in my opinion he's right, and on this particular
    point you're profoundly mistaken. You regularly poo-poo the importance of good
    color in type. But design, spacing and setting of type is not all about 'notan'.
    It is both notan *and* color, at least as far as I understand these terms. And
    yes, color affects readability. Try *looking* at Mitchell and Wightman's examples.\r\n\r\nAs
    to text faces where a darker weight is looser, I believe that in the very small
    sizes, optical adjustment of metal type sometimes involved slightly increasing
    all three: width, stroke weight and letter spacing. That's not just the one isolated
    factor of weight, but as I said before it is anyway impossible to make 'everything
    equal' because the factors are interdependent. "
  created: '2007-05-27 17:57:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> You regularly poo-poo the importance of good color in type.\r\n\r\nFalse.\r\nI
    do however jauntily poo-poo on your terminology and your grasp of reading.\r\n\r\n>
    in the very small sizes, optical adjustment\r\n\r\nYou are skirting the issue.\r\nBecause
    you're having trouble admitting a mistake.\r\nPoo-poo on that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-27 18:47:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">You are skirting the issue.\r\n\r\nHrant, I said in my first post (11:01
    am) on this that spacing depends on size as well as darkness. That's what you
    took issue with. And I said immediately that 'everything equal' can't apply because
    of interaction between factors.  \r\n\r\nInstead of addressing the point you issue
    insults.\r\n\r\nCharming.  "
  created: '2007-05-27 18:58:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> That\u2019s what you took issue with.\r\n\r\nNo, I totally agree with you
    on those (as I have\r\nsaid myself often). What I've taken issue with were:\r\n1)
    Mitchel and Wightman's claim.\r\n2) Your \"I don\u2019t think there is a generally
    valid rule\"\r\nto my \"darker fonts need tighter (lateral) spacing\".\r\n\r\n>
    \u2018everything equal\u2019 can\u2019t apply because of interaction between factors.\r\n\r\nIt
    can apply just fine, in the realm of thought.\r\nThought being one of two foundations
    for practical decisions.\r\n\r\n> you issue insults.\r\n\r\nYou know, I insult
    you often enough that\r\nyou really don't need to invent instances.\r\nI poo-poo
    on victim syndrome.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-27 19:59:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">It can apply just fine in the realm of thought\r\n\r\nNo, it doesn't even
    work in the realm of thought, or theory. As I said, *geometry* dictates that a
    bolded glyph is either wider on the outside or narrower in the inside, or both.
    And depending on what you do with the width of the glyph, it will affect what
    spacing will look best. --As will changing the optical size. So to talk about
    best spacing you have to also talk about width of counters and optical size, not
    just boldness. It may be typical nowadays to 'go East or go West'  [as Nick Shinn
    put it] in bolding a glyph, but there are other options. \r\n\r\nAnd, as Charles
    pointed out overall style can also affect spacing. Many of the traditional 'modern'
    (Bodoni style) serifs style were quite bold, but as he points out, their wide,
    high contrast shapes didn't take kindly to very tight spacing in text.  \r\n\r\nSo
    your rule is just too simplistic. While often true, it has important exceptions
    and so is misleading and wrongly restrictive. \r\n\r\nThe Mitchell and Wightman
    issue is different. Quite clearly *here* you are (without looking) denying their
    view, which is explicitly based on color considerations. And in many discussions
    you have also denied the traditional view--which I follow--that evenness of color
    is one primary goal in good text type design. "
  created: '2007-05-27 22:45:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You're just flailing. And what's really funny is that you're hinding behind
    \"even color\" now, even though what I'm explaining actually helps that too! What
    you're advocating ensures even color all right - between the two weights!  :-/\r\n\r\nThis
    really isn't very complicated. Darker weights, when done properly (as in your
    own \"normal book text sizes\" - you know, something you'd read a book in) have
    less white space inside than lighter weights, almost always in absolute measurements,
    but at the very least in relation to the black bodies.* Heck, otherwise they wouldn't
    look darker! The fact that the inside whites are relatively smaller means the
    outside whites have to be smaller too, otherwise either the lighter or the darker
    weight will have bad notan - like how Helvetica is too tight. I shouldn't have
    to explain this, and frankly I don't, because you already know it, you simply
    slipped, possibly in your eagerness to defend Mitch & Whitie against me; or really
    anybody against me. We all make mistakes; but some of us have great trouble admitting
    it.\r\n\r\n* Meaning that even if a darker weight has the same absolute inside
    counter measures (which is very hard to find examples of, not least because it
    makes the widths too great), the darker stems etc. will make them look relatively
    smaller. But as a rule the insides do get smaller, because that's the smart way.\r\n\r\nIf
    you have a real-world counter-example, please show it.\r\nShow me a font where
    a darker weight is looser. And if you\r\nfind it, go ahead and call it readable
    with a straight face.\r\n\r\n> So your rule is just too simplistic.\r\n\r\nIt's
    not my rule! Please, ask around. Yes it's basic, but that's the good kind of rule.\r\nIt
    comes straight from notan (although that's not the usual term used).\r\n\r\n>
    The Mitchell and Wightman issue is different.\r\n\r\nYes, but not different enough.
    Not different enough to be true. If a darker weight needs tighter letterspacing
    between letters to maintain readability, tighter leading would generally help
    too. For one thing, think of wordspaces and their role in the determination of
    optimal leading.\r\n\r\nTrue, unlike letterspacing it's harder to ruin readability
    with looser leading, but it's still functionally bad in terms of readability (at
    the very least by wasting saccades over pages, but probably more significantly).\r\n\r\n>
    evenness of color is one primary goal in good text type design.\r\n\r\nNow <cite>that's</cite>
    simplistic.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-27 23:28:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Per_5815.jpg]'
  created: '2007-05-28 00:20:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And what do we think about the readability of Perpetua Bold?\r\n\r\nAnd I
    don't mean you, Nick, since you think Eunoia-Text can be\r\nused for a book. You
    might ask William what he thinks about that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-28 00:32:56'
- author:
    name: Typical
    picture: 112513
  body: "BrooklynRob,\r\n\r\nAlso, Century might well more appealing in the USA than
    in other places. See http://typophile.com/node/12634"
  created: '2007-05-28 02:29:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/avis04_5733.gif]\r\n\r\nHelmut Krone's
    art direction for Avis ads in the 1960s is often cited in best-of lists."
  created: '2007-05-28 02:54:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yeah, and people think that stuff set in Mrs Eaves is great too.\r\nBut some
    of us know better: http://typophile.com/node/34030\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-28 05:03:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Times New Roman Bold also has wider side bearings on the lower case than
    does Times New Roman Regular. And I have never heard complaints about the readability
    of Times Bold.\r\n\r\nIt is true that Walter Tracy thinks that the total side
    bearings of the n should never be greater than the counter of the n, which Times
    New Roman Bold violates. However, he doesn't criticise the fact that the Times
    bold has greater sidebearings than the regular. And indeed, he says that proportionally
    to the counter, the bold H usually requires larger sidebearings than the regular.
    It would be interesting to see what Tracy did in his own fonts. \r\n\r\nAs Tracy
    notes, the phenomenon of related bold is a 20th century invention. And as we can
    see from Perpetua, Times New Roman, and Adobe's recent faces, there have been
    diverse approaches to the companion bold. \r\n\r\nIn Adobe's case, the effort
    has been to use Multiple Master technology to produce a great range of weights
    for serifed fonts, in the way that such a range was introduced for sans faces--first
    for Futura, if I'm not mistaken. This has resulted in much more similarity in
    size to size than in the case of old metal fonts, especially pre-pantographic
    punch cutter fonts. Current practice of Slimbach more or less follows Tracy, but
    with considerably tighter spacing than Tracy recommends.  \r\n\r\nAs to readability,
    I don't think companion bolds are particularly readable in extended text, nor
    are they intended to be. You almost never see extended text in a bold weight.
    That rarity is, I believe, because excessive darkness hurts readability--as does
    excessive lightness. The 'good notan' gained by tight spacing of seriffed bolds
    is a matter of aesthetics, and the purpose of contrast to the companion regular,
    rather than readability. \r\n\r\nOverall, I am inclined to not to regard the issues
    of spacing bolder fonts as settled art. I do think it depends partly on style
    and optical size. For example Times New Roman Bold deliberately has stylistic
    differences from Times New Roman--harkening back to the pre-pantographic punch
    cut days. This is not necessarily a bad idea. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-28 15:12:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Times New Roman Bold\r\n\r\n> the phenomenon of related bold is a 20th
    century invention.\r\n\r\n> I don\u2019t think companion bolds are particularly
    readable\r\n\r\nI previously tried to get you to see past the Bold angle, but
    apparently I've failed.\r\nHopefully as you progress in making your Caslon, you'll
    come around.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-28 15:27:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Charles, I checked my late Uncle Ben Lieberman's 1967 book 'Types of Typeface'
    for Primer. At the end of the book he has a variety of typefaces (metal) all set
    in the same paragraph at 10/11. This is a useful device for comparison, though
    of course it has its limits. \r\n\r\nAt any rate, the contrast between Century
    Schoolbook and Primer--he has both--is striking. The most obvious thing is that
    Primer is much lighter. At this small size with little leading, Primer is much
    more of a 'text' face, much more readable. \r\n\r\nMy guess is that Century Schoolbook
    was designed for primers and other children's books, and intended to be used at
    very large size with lots of leading. And it does look very readable and pretty
    in such useage.\r\n\r\nI suspect that it works well as an alternative to Courier
    on letter sized paper, or that it works at 9 point in some settings, as you say,
    is more or less good luck, beyond its original 'brief'.   "
  created: '2007-05-28 15:42:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I previously tried to get you to see past the Bold angle, but apparently
    I\u2019ve failed.\r\n\r\nHuh? I don't know what you are talking about. \r\n\r\nYou
    wrote:\r\n\r\n>What I\u2019ve taken issue with were:\r\n>1) Mitchel and Wightman\u2019s
    claim.\r\n>2) Your \u201CI don\u2019t think there is a generally valid rule\u201D\r\n>to
    my \u201Cdarker fonts need tighter (lateral) spacing\u201D. \r\n\r\nYou haven't
    even looked at Mitchell and Wightman, and the success of Times New Roman Bold
    I think is a reason to question your perported 'rule' as an iron one. And it seems
    that you have already conceded that comparing small optical sizes to regular your
    'rule' might not hold. \r\n\r\nThe practice of Wm Caslon I was certainly different
    from Adobe's today. I'm working hard to get the best of both worlds. And I've
    wasted way too much time posting to this thread, so bye bye for now.   "
  created: '2007-05-28 15:55:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Huh? I don\u2019t know what you are talking about.\r\n\r\nReminds me of
    another thread.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-28 16:02:28'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Bill.\r\n\r\nPrimer was an improvement on \"Century (Expanded),\" not Century
    Schoolbook. I suppose both the Schoolbook & Expanded could be considered variants
    on the original font \"Century,\" but CE appeared far earlier. In my circles at
    any rate, Century Expanded was far more common than Schoolbook. "
  created: '2007-05-28 16:19:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I used Primer (c.1985) for a product brochure -- it was great in a large
    text size (14-18pt) and for very big headlines. It was still Century, and not
    Clarendony, as the usual Centuries become when used large, or Moderny/Didony,
    which is the way Centuries often end up in display versions. Is it available digitally?\r\n\r\nAnd
    what about a Century with sc&osf?"
  created: '2007-05-28 17:30:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Is it available digitally?\r\n\r\nYes, Linotype does have it, but sans
    the most significant thing about it: being the last of the great faces of that
    era, it embodies the greatest sophistication of optical scaling ever. (Credit
    to either Kent or Gerald for once pointing this out to me.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-28 17:47:08'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite>Charles: Anybody have more thoughts on Primer (aka Century improved)?</cite>\r\n\r\nNo
    way am I going to touch that other tangent, but I'll gladly discuss Primer. \r\n\r\nPrimer
    is another of those classic American book faces whose unavailability in a decent
    digital form I lament. (Caveat: I have never worked with the Bitstream version,
    but what I have seen doesn't impress me.)\r\n\r\nPrimer is a lot harder to find
    \"in the wild.\" But, William, here are two samples from my collection. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Primer_HessePage_3998.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Primer_Woodpeckers2_6116.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\nThe
    first is from the book I mentioned in Eben's <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/33915\"
    target=new>book-collecting thread</a>: <cite>Beneath the Wheel</cite>, by Hermann
    Hesse [Farrar, Straus and Giroux, Inc., 1968]. This is set in either 10/14 or
    11/14 (see below for why I'm hedging), printed on an ivory antique-finish stock.
    This particular book is in only fair/good condition and there's quite a bit of
    foxing, which I didn't bother to try to clean up.\r\n\r\nThe second is from <cite>Song
    and Garden Birds of North America</cite>, edited by Alexander Wetmore [National
    Geographic Society, 1964]. This was printed on a pretty hard, coated stock. The
    text setting is 9/12. The head is 24 pt.\r\n\r\nNote: These examples are not to
    scale with one another.\r\n\r\nPrimer was produced in two variations: one with
    short descenders and one with long descenders. You'll notice that the Nat'l Geo
    book uses the short descenders, while the Hesse is set with long descenders. Both
    versions would have been cut on the standard alignment for the nominal point size.
    The short descenders would fit on the nominal body, but the long descender version
    would need to be cast on a body at least one size larger. This is why I'm hedging
    a little in declaring the size of the Hesse setting. But the Hesse text is the
    same size as the subhead in the bird book (<em>\"Family Picidae\"</em>).\r\n\r\nAnother
    interesting aspect I've noticed is that the typical optical adjustments between
    sizes is particularly pronounced in the Primer series. (I thought I had something
    from Griffith mentioning this, but I can't put my hands on it.)\r\n\r\nFrom some
    1954 MLCo. advertising copy: \"In the small sizes, Primer can crowd considerable
    type into a small space without graying into fuzziness. The even gradation of
    color through the various sizes from 6- to 12-pt. results directly from Linotype's
    policy of making separate drawings for each point size, <em> modifying the width</em>
    of individual characters as needed.\" [emphasis in the original]\r\n\r\nI'm pretty
    sure Primer was indeed conceived to replace (i.e. compete with) Century Schoolbook,
    hence the name. (Again, I can't seem to put my hands on a primary source.)\r\n\r\nNaturally,
    it was primarily marketed toward textbooks and educational materials. From the
    same ad copy quoted above: \"Primer was designed for us by Rudolph Ruzicka primarily
    for textbook or schoolbook use. But Ruzicka drew us an alphabet so clear, so free
    of frills and mannerisms that might interrupt the reader, that we strongly recommend
    it for all types of work where legibility and dignity are of the essence.\" (Remember,
    this is marketing copy.)\r\n\r\nRuzicka had this to say [from <cite>Rudolph Ruzicka:
    Speaking Reminiscently</cite>, edited by Edward Connery Lathem, The Grolier Club,
    1986.]: \"Finally, after Fairfield Medium, I did Primer, which was intended to
    be a text type; that is to say, one principally meant for text books and that
    sort of thing. It was to be totally without artificial refinement, without affectations
    of any kind. Supposedly; but it isn't, really.\"  \r\n\r\nCharles -- I don't know
    whether I'd qualify for you as a \"true font designer,\" but I have, on several
    occasions, toyed with the idea of doing a revival of Primer. The original Linotype
    working drawings are at the Printing History Museum in North Andover, and I've
    had a brief look at some of them. Gardner would never let me work from them without
    permission from Linotype, but now that Lino ownership is back in the States, it
    might be easier to get some traction with the idea. I could bring it up with Allan
    Haley. Still, I'm not convinced that there would really be enough broad market
    appeal to make the venture truly viable.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-28 18:31:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Fascinating, Kent. \r\n\r\n>don't know if I\u2019d qualify for you as a \u201Ctrue
    font designer,\u201D\r\n\r\nAre you KIDDING? Say 'Whitman' three times. \r\n\r\nTo
    me this feels too much like a newspaper type modified for book work. I'm not sure
    I like it, but I probably would if you redrew it :)\r\n\r\nMy problem with it
    is that it looks awfully wide to me. But at the moment everything wider than Caslon
    (which varies width with optical size!) looks wrong, so my vision is probably
    distorted. \r\n\r\n>Gardner would never let me\r\n\r\nHeh,heh. Don't tell him
    who told you, but though he presents a very gruff exterior, I think you can sweet
    talk him. They let Matthew Carter use those drawings for his digital Monticello.
    Admittedly, that is a Linotype digital font, and he is Matthew Carter. But hey,
    you are Kent Lew :) "
  created: '2007-05-28 18:59:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> No way am I going to touch that other tangent\r\n\r\nBut you already have.
    Here's a composite of Whitman\r\nRegular and Bold, with the right sides of the
    rightmost\r\nstems of the \"m\"s aligned, and with the Bold in gray:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/WhitmanSpacing_4141.gif]\r\n\r\nWilliam,
    you're working with FontBureau as well.\r\nExpect to hear from them what I've
    been saying, eventually.\r\n\r\nPrimer: It would certainly be great to see a proper
    revival; and\r\nthere's no reason to doubt that you could do it justice yourself,\r\nespecially
    considering your proper awareness of optical scaling.\r\nBut I have to agree with
    your hunch that the market for it would\r\nbe minimal; and maybe that was the
    case with the original, which\r\nwould explain the apparent general disinterest
    in a digital version.\r\n\r\nSince you're so good at making original contributions\r\nand
    not just revivals, I would stick to that instead!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-28 19:34:39'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Kent,\r\n\r\nBy \"real\" or \"true\" font designer, I means essentially someone
    other than me. I can usually \"fix\" a font, but that is a far cry from starting
    from step 1. Looks like you qualify.\r\n\r\nI would think that if Linotype gave
    you access to their materials, they might want to co-release it. I will try a
    \"personal message\" through Typophile.\r\n\r\nBest,\r\n\r\nCharles"
  created: '2007-05-28 20:49:28'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite>CE: By \u201Creal\u201D or \u201Ctrue\u201D font designer, I means
    essentially someone other than me. </cite>\r\n\r\nWell, then I guess I would qualify
    ;-)\r\n\r\nWilliam, you are kind; but one font could just be a fluke. We'll see
    what future efforts yield, and then time will tell.\r\n\r\n<cite> WB: Heh,heh.
    Don\u2019t tell him who told you, but though he presents a very gruff exterior,
    I think you can sweet talk him. </cite>\r\n\r\nOh, I know that. I have a great
    relationship with Gardner. But he explained his position vis-a-vis Heidelberg
    (owners of Lino at the time) and I respect his position. The work that Matthew
    did on Monticello was done with the full blessings of Linotype (and they co-own
    the results, and it's a shame they didn't launch any marketing efforts in conjunction
    with the Princeton project), and that's why he was allowed to use the drawings.\r\n\r\nPrimer
    is a wide design. In fact, it has pretty unique proportions all around -- rather
    wide and extremely large x-height, especially for its time. But, you're also probably
    reacting strongly to the 9-pt above, which is unduly emphasized by the screen
    enlargement.\r\n\r\nNevertheless, some of these aspects, which admittedly are
    part of its charm, also give it some limitations. Which is why it was always better
    suited to textbooks and was never as popular or broadly useful in general book
    work as Caledonia or Electra or Fairfield, for instance.\r\n\r\nHrant, you're
    right. Although I constantly toy with ideas about reviving faces I admire (and
    don't think have been done justice), I am possibly more temperamentally inclined
    to do other work and to just let it be deeply informed by those models. \r\n\r\n--
    K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-28 22:19:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Hrant, you are completely off the mark in your assumptions about what I am
    doing, and I am well aware of what you are illustrating with Kent''s wonderful
    typeface. '
  created: '2007-05-29 02:44:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you are completely off the mark in your assumptions about what I am doing\r\n\r\nYou
    are making a typeface, am I correct?\r\nWill it have more than one weight?\r\n\r\n>
    I am well aware of what you are illustrating\r\n\r\nThe next step for you is to
    realize that it's functional, not fashionable.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-29 04:07:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'edit: I see now you have edited out an insult that I responded to, and I
    have deleted my response. I''m happy that you thought better of it, but I''d be
    still happier if you''d cease the tiresome one-upmanship. And I hope I''ll be
    wise enough not to push back, which always makes it worse. '
  created: '2007-05-29 04:53:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Big Edit:\r\n\r\nI spent a good ten minutes addressing your hissy-fit, and
    now almost all of it needs to be dumped because you changed your mind. But it's
    worth the effort, especially since admittedly it was a change of mind on my own
    part (even though the span was less than 5 minutes, not <cite>an hour</cite>...)
    that apparently triggered most of it, even though your edit (and the subsequent
    IM to me to do likewise) is not unlikely to have been self-serving, at least in
    some ways (as in to cover up bad judgment). Here, however, is what remains:\r\n\r\n1)
    My post did not previously contain an insult - please watch your terms.\r\n\r\n2)
    You're seeing one-upmanship because that's what's in you own head. What I'm seeing
    is attempts to correct disinformation on your part; I don't want Typophile to
    harbor advice that I consider bad. Your persistent denial of this simple reality
    in favor of demonization is convenient, and typical.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-29 05:46:13'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "Hello everyone. New guy here. I'm a letterpress printer with a hundreds of
    pounds of Century and a little bit to say about it. Century Schoolbook was designed
    for text books with maximum readability in mind. It was \"mechanically\" designed
    by ATF under Morris Benton's guidance, meaning its form was dictated by the use
    of mechanical tools rather than by a pen in the hand of a typographer. They (ATF)
    conducted \"studies\" to perfect it, and in my mind it worked, as it is an extremely
    readable type face, and is, to this day, perfectly suited for children's books.
    In fact, I don't think any other type face should ever be used for a children's
    book, but I suppose that would take too much away from everyone's creative \"freedom.\"
    It is what a lot of us Gen-Xers recognize as the classic American alphabet. Century
    Old Style, another ATF typeface credited to Morris Benton (along with 221 others),
    is also truly American. Stan Nelson, formerly of the Smithsonian, once told me
    it was \"about as exciting as a truck...but some people like trucks.\" I like
    trucks, basic pick up trucks without extended cabs and flared wheel wells...like
    a Ford F-150 or something. In fact, last time I checked (about 7 years ago), it
    sure looked to me like the NY Times was set in Century Old Style. I could be wrong.
    But if you're one of those people who think the NY Times is to America as the
    BBC is to Great Britain, there is nothing more American, more utilatarian, than
    Century Old Style. Century Expanded is definitely old fashioned, dated, American
    (of course), and cool. I like the Century family because of its classic nature.
    The real stuff is about a hundred years old, it does what it needs to do exceptionally
    well, and I don't see any reason to try to improve it.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-29 18:11:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> perfectly suited for children\u2019s books.\r\n\r\nI think it would be
    even better without serifs.\r\nWhich is why I once made a sans Armenian derivative:\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/f_arasan.html\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-29 18:15:07'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite>The New York Times</cite> text is Imperial. Has been for at least the
    last several years (couldn't vouch for 7 years ago, but I believe it's been Imperial
    for quite a long time). Imperial was originally an Intertype design from 1954.\r\n\r\nThe
    primary headline style is now a specially harmonized suite of Cheltenhams, especially
    re-crafted for <cite>The Times</cite> by Matthew Carter. Prior to that update
    (ca. 2003, I think) the headlines were a cacophany of several styles. I suppose
    Century may have been among them, but I don't recall. \r\n\r\nNevertheless, the
    whole Century family does seem to epitomize a certain American quality, albeit
    early 20th century.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-29 18:53:25'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "If your comment is to be taken literally...\r\n\r\nI think it would look
    stupid without the serifs.\r\n\r\nWhich is why we have News Gothic.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-29 19:01:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I think it would look stupid without the serifs.\r\n\r\nI think that seeing
    a font as being perfect,\r\neven for one specific task, is what's stupid.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-29 19:09:29'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "> ...seeing a font as being perfect...is what's stupid.\r\n\r\nThen I must
    be stupid.\r\n\r\nI'm logging out before I cause too much trouble. Never been
    any good at these kinds of discussions. Peace be with you.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-29 19:13:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You know, I have this thing against people claiming and adulating \"perfection\".
    I managed to restrain myself after your original post, but I guess I failed when
    I read your own \"stupid\". I really have no reason to think you're stupid, and
    I apologize. I'm a big fan of letterpress, and we don't have enough of such experts
    here, plus my difficult attitude is not typical of this forum, so please accept
    my apology, and stay.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-29 19:19:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>your hissy-fit,</em>\r\n\r\nWelcome to the club, Bill.\r\nDid you dare
    to proffer an opinion that differs from that of the omnuisciant Hrant?\r\nWell
    shame on you, the world must be protected from such \"disinformation\"!\r\nAnd
    did you dare to object to the magisterial dictates of one so knowledgable and
    accomplished? -- well then, the insult must be all in your mind, and you must
    be stupid, and thankful that he pointed it out, so please work harder to be smarter,
    and he will make you a better person, OK?"
  created: '2007-05-29 19:20:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, you don't value the intergrity of discourse. For you Typophile seems
    to be simply a means to further yourself. But at least realize that not everybody
    is always like that; some people sometimes object to things simply because they
    feel it's untrue, even if that causes people to dislike them.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-29 19:26:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">he will make you a better person\r\n\r\nI figure if I learn to handle Hrant's
    rants graciously, I will be able to do anything. Something like Miyagi in movie
    'Karate Kid':\r\n\r\nDaniel: Wouldn't a fly swatter be easier?\r\nMiyagi: Man
    who catch fly with chopstick accomplish anything.\r\nDaniel: Ever catch one?\r\nMiyagi:
    Not yet. \r\n\r\nI haven't caught one, but I'm still trying :) "
  created: '2007-05-29 19:32:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, pay attention. There's always room to grow, even in the\r\nstrangest
    places. Enjoyment isn't everything. But you do need\r\nthe right attitude - so
    you might be happy to hear that it's really\r\nall up to you after all.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-29 19:45:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Hrant, be a good fellow and give us all a break from the amateur psychology,
    would you?
  created: '2007-05-29 23:12:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nah, you give us all a break from the infallible flaming artiste routine.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 00:41:57'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "> The New York Times text is Imperial.\r\n\r\nThat makes perfect sense, as
    the Times was set with Intertypes till, what...not too long ago...wasn't it 1977
    or something like that? Or was it even later?\r\n\r\nAnyhow...just did the research,
    and sho'nuff if that Imperial isn't an interpretation of Century Old Style, designed
    almost 50 years prior, and it illustrates my initial point well...it's just not
    as well balanced, not as gracefully proportioned, not as classically truckish
    as the type it's trying to duplicate closely, but not copy, because there's copyrights
    on all this stuff, remember, and Century Old Style belonged to ATF, and Linotype
    surely had a type face that was similar. So maybe it doesn't illustrate my point
    (which was that you cannot improve upon these things because they were designed
    so perfectly) because it was not an attempt at improvement, but rather an attempt
    at close-as-possible mimmicry. Am I right? I mean...I could be wrong, but that's
    sure what it looks like to me."
  created: '2007-05-30 03:13:24'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Sigh . . . I think another neutrino just whizzed by.
  created: '2007-05-30 03:30:13'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "> sigh\r\n\r\nOkay. Man...first stupid and now a *sigh* response. Whew. Y'all
    is uptight over here. All I'm looking for is someone... kentlew, I suppose...
    to respond to my observation that the NY Times Imperial designed by Intertype
    looks like an ATF Century Old Style rip-off. This thread is titled \"Your opinions
    on Century,\" right? And this is directly related to my opinion that Century =
    Classic = Very Good. The real stuff, that is...the lead stuff...the undiluted
    original ATF Century family.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 14:35:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Isn't the \"real stuff\" what the original designer (Harry Carter?) intended?
    Because it's no secret that metal type had limitations that skewed things around
    (like making kerns more modest to reduce breakage). A good example is Octavian,
    which actually <cite>improved</cite> when it moved out of metal - like look at
    the \"f\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 14:53:29'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "> Isn\u2019t the \u201Creal stuff\u201D what the original designer (Harry
    Carter?) intended?\r\n\r\nEesh. Now I sound like the pompous letterpress ass...let
    me take back that \"real stuff\" comment, please. But I will stick with my opinion
    that the original, the metal Century Old Style, credited to M Benton, is better
    than the copy-cat Intertype Imperial and most definitely better than the copy-cat
    digital Imperial I saw on myfonts.com last night, with or without the limitations
    you mentioned. (Maybe there's a better version of the digital Imperial out there...I
    don't know...I'm not especially hip to the world of digital type.) And it's better
    than the Century that's on my Mac. When I look at them side by side, the same
    typefaces, metal vs. digital, the metal reigns.\r\n\r\nThis could very well be
    purely subjective, and I like to stick to objectivity whenever possible, but for
    now I don't have the time to put together an objective arguement...I'm at work
    for cryin' out loud!\r\n\r\nI'm not going to deny your opinion that some letterforms
    may have improved when they moved out of metal. That very well may the case. Mostly
    I registered and logged in to give my opinion about the Century family."
  created: '2007-05-30 15:43:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Koppa, I don't think the 'neutrino' was you...\r\n\r\nAccording to Mac McGrew's
    'American Metal Typefaces of the 20th Century' Imperial was designed by Edwin
    Shaar. \r\n\r\nIncidentally, I notice that the text of the McGrew book is in Century
    Schoolbook. \r\n\r\nI don't know whether the choice of Century Schoolbook for
    the text was made by Mac McGrew, or by my Uncle, J. Ben Lieberman, who was a moving
    force behind that book, and printed the first edition himself. In either case,
    it was selected as the representative American face of the 20th century by someone
    who knew these faces well, and lived through most of that era."
  created: '2007-05-30 15:48:20'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "A few points (ducking any neutrinos):\r\n\r\nKoppa -- Are you certain you
    aren't confusing Imperial with Ideal? Both are Intertype newspaper faces. Ideal
    was indeed designed specifically for <cite>The NY Times</cite>, ca. 1926 or 1928
    (I have conflicting sources). Imperial was designed ca. 1954/57 and wasn't adopted
    by the <cite>Times</cite> until 1967. I don't recall when they stopped composing
    in metal.\r\n\r\nHere are visuals for those attempting to follow along at home:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ideal_3493.gif]\r\n\r\n<cite>Intertype
    Ideal</cite>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Imperial_6266.gif]\r\n\r\n<cite>Intertype
    Imperial</cite>\r\n\r\nIdeal does indeed show a debt to the Century family. However,
    it appears most similar to Century Expanded, not Century Oldstyle. Notice details
    like the terminal and tail of the 'a', the terminals of the 'c' and 'r', the overall
    character of the 'g', and the straight serifs on the 'u' (contrasted with the
    canted serifs of Century Oldstyle).\r\n\r\nFor comparison:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CenturyOldStyle_8pt_3929.gif]\r\n\r\n<cite>Century
    Oldstyle</cite>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CenturyExpanded_8pt_3419.gif]\r\n\r\n<cite>Century
    Expanded</cite> (sorry for the distortion on the right at the binding)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CenturySchoolbook_8pt_5528.gif]\r\n\r\n<cite>Century
    Schoolbook</cite> (for the sake of thoroughness)\r\n\r\nImperial, on the other
    hand, looks to me more like an attempt to keep up with Linotype's Legibility series,
    especially Corona. It could be argued that all the legibility newspaper faces
    of that period bear some passing resemblance to the Century family, as they all
    seem to have descended through a Clarendon/Ionic (and maybe a hint of Scotch)
    lineage. Century Oldstyle diverges most from this path (as its name might suggest).\r\n\r\nAs
    to your point about mimicry vs. improvement, I would say that Imperial bears neither
    relationship to Century; but I would say that Ideal was an attempt at improvement,
    to the extent that it was an effort to take overall design characteristics of
    the popular Century Expanded and improve their performance in a specific arena
    -- for newspaper text size and printing methods. I wouldn't be surprised if that
    was part of the brief from the <cite>Times</cite> (but I don't have any direct
    evidence of that, of course). Century Expanded, as is, simply would not have worked.\r\n\r\n--
    K.\r\n\r\nCredits: Ideal and Imperial are taken from <cite>Anatomy of a Typeface</cite>
    by Alexander Lawson (David R. Godine Publishers, 1990). The Centuries are from
    my 1923 ATF specimen book.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 16:18:39'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: ">According to Mac McGrew\u2019s \u2018American Metal Typefaces\r\n\r\nA-ha!
    Why didn't I just reference that book in the first place?...it's sitting right
    here next me (a gift from Brother Theo...Thanks, Theo!). It's a great, indispensible
    resource, and while it doesn't state that Imperial is a Century Old Style rip-off,
    I don't think anyone could deny the resemblance.\r\n\r\nNo disrespect intended
    towards Mr Shaar (rip-off is admittedly strong language)...those guys had jobs
    to do and they did them very well.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 16:31:22'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "kentlew, thank you for posting the specimens and commentary. Great stuff.
    I mostly see the resemblance in the shortened ascenders and desenders, I thought
    the lowercase g and s were nearly identical in COS and Imperial, but now I see
    that they are not. Also noted is the canted vs. straight serifs. Haven't analyzed
    type this much in a while and it feels great. Nice chatting with you all.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 16:42:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the metal reigns.\r\n\r\nA lot of that of course is the general absense
    of optical scaling in digital\r\ntype (meaning that one design is made to do for
    all sizes). Fortunately\r\nmore and more designers are making optical masters
    these days.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 16:57:22'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: The Berthold collection comprised a dozen digitized versions of various Century
    typefaces in PS Type 1 format, which vanished from the market after the bankruptcy,
    e.g. the digitization "Century Original" (see German typesetting specimen www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/centorig.pdf).
    It was claimed to be a replica of Benton's original version of 1900.
  created: '2007-05-30 17:14:01'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "The dimension of the descenders would have been largely dictated by Standard
    Alignment. And relatively large x-height and shorter ascenders is pretty much
    <em>de rigeur</em> in small legibility faces like Imperial. So I don't think that
    this superficial resemblance is necessarily much evidence of influence.\r\n\r\nUpon
    closer examination, I will grant that there appears to be a stronger resemblance
    between Imperial and Century Oldstyle than with the other Centuries (the \"unfurling\"
    of the terminals in 'a' and 'r', for instance). But there are other distinctive
    differences, and I don't know how much of a case can be made for direct influence.\r\n\r\nIncidentally,
    in examining these examples even more closely, I've become convinced that the
    'd' the specimen of Century Oldstyle, above, is <em>wrong font</em> (see lines
    3 & 4: <em>produced, versed, minds,</em> and <em>students</em>). The angled stress
    in the bowl is decidedly anomalous and unlike the 'd' in other sizes. Looks like
    it slipped past the proofers. However, the 'd' in the last line (in <em>received</em>)
    looks correct.\r\n\r\nIf I had to guess, I'd say some Clearface got into the Century
    Oldstyle type case.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Koppa
    body: "Neat! No doubt on those d's. I love that kind of stuff...imagining the
      compositors setting those specimen books...sometimes the choice of words and
      phrases is a real crack-up, especially in that 1923 ATF book. Who made those
      decisions? It couldn't have been up to the compositor, could it? Surely there
      must've been a discussion about this in the past.\r\n\r\nunrelated side note...I
      cannot believe I've been censored for the use of the word ass as in ass = donkey
      = fool = myself. Ass is not a naughty word in this context. Are typophiles notoriously
      uptight?\r\n"
    created: '2007-05-30 21:30:41'
  created: '2007-05-30 17:29:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> sometimes the choice of words and phrases is a real crack-up\r\n\r\nA digital
    foundry that has picked up that wonderful tradition is FontBureau.\r\n\r\nAlso:
    \"Alphabets to Order: The Literature of Nineteenth-\r\nCentury Typefounders' Specimens\"
    by A Johnston, 2000.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 22:06:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>FontBureau</em>\r\nAFAIK, Tobias Frere-Jones wrote many of those, and
    may be doing same at H&F-J.\r\n\r\nJon Parker at Veer is also ace -- just got
    \"TypeCity\" specimen today -- very nice."
  created: '2007-05-30 22:30:52'
- author:
    name: Typical
    picture: 112513
  body: "A specimen of Georgia might help illuminate some of what's not so contemporary
    about century schoolbook. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cent_george_3798.png]"
  created: '2007-05-31 03:30:20'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "> \u201CAlphabets to Order\r\n\r\nThank you for the book tip.\r\n\r\n> what\u2019s
    not so contemporary about century schoolbook.\r\n\r\nThere is no debating that
    Georgia is the more contemporary of the two. And beautiful, too. And the Century
    Schoolbook remains the classic. But why? What makes something classic? Or is it
    just classic in my mind because the climax of my nostalgiamania lies in turn of
    the last century America, at the birth of the age of the machine? Or is it really
    classic because it was the flagship of the biggest, best, most widely distributed
    type manufacturer in the country during the golden age of metal type?\r\n\r\nThese
    are real questions. Was it ATF's flagship? Seems reasonable to think so. And how
    do you define classic?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-31 14:41:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Or is it just classic in my mind\r\n\r\nTypically something being something
    in somebody's mind is\r\nan indication that it's the same (or very similar) thing
    in\r\nother's people minds too. But the only way to be certain\r\nenough is to
    ask around a lot.\r\n\r\n> how do you define classic?\r\n\r\nIn the prologue to
    \"Revival of the fittest\" (yes, another book)\r\na number of type luminaries
    take a shot at defining that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-31 14:59:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> how do you define classic?</em>\r\n\r\nOne definition might be that
    it's an important part of the main evolutionary line.\r\nClearface has been mentioned,
    but there's quite a radical jump in many of its lettershapes.\r\nIn comparison
    Century was really just a revival of the Scotch Modern, beefed up to \r\n(1) help
    Theo De Vinne's aging eyesight\r\n(2) bring some Arts and Crafts heft to workhorse
    text type style (William Morris' aging eyesight)\r\n(3) pack in a little more
    character count to please the publisher (De Vinne again)\r\nCentury Schoolbook
    addressed a further issue -- education, readability and social benefit -- after
    all, it was made during the Progressive Era, designed by an engineer.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nJust
    looking at a big ad for Ikea in my morning paper, with house style of huge Century
    Schoolbook type, paired with Futura, another rationalist, early 20th Century face.
    \r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nThe simplified lines and enlarged features of Century Schoolbook
    -- which play to its audience of children --  also have a pop art quality, in
    the way that attention is drawn to the basic elements of a vernacular cultural
    artefact, in this case text type.\r\n\r\nIt's ironic that a rationalist approach,
    with the intent of making the style disappear when read at text size, should have
    this effect when the type is blown up large and the details may be readily inspected,
    but the paradoxical phenomenon of scalability is at the heart of typography, and
    one of the major reasons it's so fascinating to us. "
  created: '2007-05-31 16:04:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Speaking of Clearface, it's a little-publicized fact that\r\nit was actually
    design \"scientifically\" to improve reading.\r\n\r\n> the paradoxical phenomenon
    of scalability is at the heart of typography\r\n\r\nIt is however almost entirely
    misunderstood,\r\nto the point that we've come to believe that\r\na single font
    that can be scaled from 4 to 72\r\nis actually a good thing...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-31 18:47:29'
date: '2007-05-26 16:50:33'
title: Your opinions on Century

---
