---
author:
  name: ebensorkin
  picture: 109987
body: "Thinking about Notan, Ligatures, and the kind of behavior we get from InDesign
  I was wondering if (for text) it isn't a better idea to make fi ff & ffl  ligatures
  ( etc etc ) out of two or three glyphs kerned into a ligature rather than to use
  the assigned Opentype 'spaces' because at least in some cases they could be designed
  to \u2018degrade\u2019 from the original design more elegantly when automatically
  spaced in various ways than a single fixed ligature glyph can. What do you think?
  Is there any precedent for this? What are the problems with this idea?"
comments:
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: If this doesn't make sense I can make some supporting graphics to show what
    I mean.
  created: '2007-05-26 20:54:16'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: I don't understand -- unless you mean fonts that really shouldn't have f-ligatures
    to start with. In that case, I rename the ligature "f_i.orig" and take it out
    of the liga routine. If someone wants the ligature for some special reason, it
    is available from the glyph pallet in InDesign, Otherwise, the f-(whatever) pairs
    are kerned like any other pairs.
  created: '2007-05-26 22:30:42'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Let me clarify. I am not being anti-ligature here. Not at all. I think they
    are great at least when they are done well. \r\n\r\nInstead of suggesting that
    we get of them I am thinking about how the flexibility of Opentype could help
    make a modest improvement in how ligatures are handeled. A while ago we had a
    thread on ligatures in which it was brought up that one problem with ligatures
    is that the letterspacing in them stays constant ( they are just one glyph ) so
    that if you have a justified line of text ( or just a letterspaced one ) they
    can start to look out of place by degrees as the letterspacing is increased or
    decreased.\r\n\r\nThe solution I have outlined above would let you have a ligature
    ( visually ) by 'fusing' or overlapping an f&i or an f&l ( or whatever ) out of
    two glyphs made for the purpose. BTW : I have been told Gutenburg had ligatures
    like this. \r\n\r\nThe only change is technical. Ideally it would look the same
    except that it would cope with letterspacing a bit better."
  created: '2007-05-27 00:05:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "InDesign breaks ligatures at >25 units of tracking.\r\nSo if you track your
    text at +20, the ligatures will still hold, but they will look too tight.\r\nAt
    +10, not really an issue.\r\nSo it's up to the foundry to make the non-ligated
    f and i look OK at +20, so that discerning typographers can switch off \"ligature\"
    at that amount of tracking."
  created: '2007-05-27 00:53:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "It's good to hear that InDesign has thought of what to do with tracking a
    bit... \r\n\r\nSo you do agree that at +15 tracking a ligature can start to look
    iffy. Correct?\r\n\r\nWhat about negative tracking or does that not get used too
    much? I imagine that negative tracking would look odd with a ligature much more
    quickly. I will have to give it a try to see what I think...\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-27 01:04:28'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "This one of the interesting issues where OT feature and layout application's
    behavior interact, and it is not sure if other applications will behave the same
    way as InDesign.\r\n\r\nThough not for '(f)fl' and '(f)fi' which I consider unnecessary
    in sanserifs, I am trying ligatures which are in fact overlapping ligature elements.
    Consider 'f' and 't' with a longer bar to the right. This implies that they will
    be spaced too and don't stand out as too narrow if spacing is increased."
  created: '2007-05-27 01:12:11'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "That's exactly the kind of thing I mean. \r\n\r\n:-) "
  created: '2007-05-27 03:07:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I've given this some thought. The problem is that in order to make a convincingly
    good 'ligature' out of individual glyphs, one would generally need to modify the
    design from the default forms of those letters. For example, in an ffi sequence,
    one might make the initial f slightly shorter than the second f, one would typically
    modify the curvature of the tops of the f's in order for them to connect nicely
    with the following letter or to overhang the stem of the dotless i, one would
    likely adjust the weight of the terminal of the first f where it meets the shoulder
    of the second, and one might extend the crossbar of the f so that it connects
    to the i. All these things are typical features of an ffi ligature glyph.\r\n\r\nNow,
    all these things could be done to individual f f and i glyphs, which could then
    be contextually substituted to form an apparent ligature. But when letterspacing
    is applied what you end up with are forms of these letters that differ from their
    default forms but which have lost their ideal relationships by being spaced out."
  created: '2007-05-27 04:45:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Anyway, don't people who letterspace lowercase letters do unspeakable things
    to sheep? :)
  created: '2007-05-27 04:46:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Indeed. Eben, as I opined during your recent SoCal trip, if you believe in
    the value of notan (as I know you do) you should realize that once you track a
    (good) text font, you have already killed it. Any attempt to implement a graceful
    degradation is a desperately romantic act. One does not polish the portholes of
    a sinking ship.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-27 04:52:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Practically speaking however, it would be nice if a font could have a\r\nfield
    -ideally for each ligature- that tells InDesign when to break it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-27 04:58:02'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> do unspeakable things to sheep? :)</cite>\r\n<cite>polish the portholes
    of a sinking ship.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think you both know that in my heart I agree
    with you. Utterly. I am absurdly idealist too.\r\n\r\nBut at the same time I know
    that beautifully made watches get scratched, rugs get walked on, cars are driven
    and bugs smear their windshields, and letters are spaced. For the same reason
    that the wings of aircraft bend- to avoid a catastrophic snap or failure; isn't
    it better to design with built in flexibility?\r\n\r\n<cite>already killed it</cite>\r\n\r\nIsn't
    it a death by %? What I am saying is that at 5% or 10% The idea I have may be
    better. And 5-10% seems like like a reasonable real world scenario. I don't really
    know but that's my gut at the moment.\r\n\r\nAnyway, thanks for weighing in!\r\n\r\n<cite>
    Practically speaking however, it would be nice if a font could have a\r\nfield
    -ideally for each ligature- that tells InDesign when to break it. </cite>\r\n\r\nNice
    point.\r\n\r\nAnd even if there is some meat on this arguement I am presenting
    - I do realize like all idealistic type ideas it has to be attempted to see if
    it is practical. Still, until I do; any other takers or rejectors?\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-27 06:03:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Isn\u2019t it a death by %?\r\n\r\nThe thing is, by the time a ligature
    looks too loose/tight in\r\ntracked text, the tracking is too much to maintain
    readability.\r\n\r\nThis is not a scratch on a watch, this is an elephant stomping
    on a watch.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-27 06:30:59'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "J.H. -- <cite>The problem is that in order to make a convincingly good \u2018ligature\u2019
    out of individual glyphs, one would generally need to modify the design from the
    default forms of those letters. For example, in an ffi sequence, one might make
    the initial f slightly shorter than the second f [...]\r\nNow, all these things
    could be done to individual f f and i glyphs, which could then be contextually
    substituted to form an apparent ligature.</cite>\r\n\r\nExactly so! This is the
    reason why I excluded '-i' and '-l' ligatures from my list. (Not to mention the
    other constraint: the bar's width must not alter.)\r\n\r\nH.P. -- <cite>Practically
    speaking however, it would be nice if a font could have a field -ideally for each
    ligature- that tells InDesign when to break it.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou mean, theoretically
    speaking. Practically speaking, this would be one more setting which would trouble
    type designers.&nbsp;&nbsp;:))\r\n\r\nThe InDesign default bothered me in version
    1.5 or 2 already, but I came to like the idea: in loose spacing there is no chance
    for collisions, so, no ligatures required. Another question would be: does this
    <cite>need</cite> automation, or isn't it the typographer's job to switch ligatures
    off?\r\n\r\n[Added:]\r\nThis method makes other kinds ligatures possible. In a
    first version of Litteratra, I tested this with uppercase ligatures -- e.g. the
    ones with a small 'I' 'O' below a bar of the 'T' or above the bar of the 'L'.
    (Especially uppercase ligatures <cite>require</cite> to be spaceable to avoid
    that they stand out in spaced caps-only text.)"
  created: '2007-05-27 09:00:31'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite>Hrant: Practically speaking however, it would be nice if a font could
    have a\r\nfield - ideally for each ligature - that tells InDesign when to break
    it.</cite>\r\n\r\nI believe Quark does this (not for each ligature, of course).
    At least, they did back in version 4.x. The setting is the \"Break above\" field,
    and it was set in tracking units (those 1/200th em units so idiosyncratic to Quark).
    I believe it was in the Preferences dialog > Character tab, or wherever it was
    that you turn on the fi/fl ligatures. Not sure if they carried this over to current
    versions.\r\n\r\nInDesign does break ligs both above and below certain thresholds
    when tracking positive or negative. The threshold, however, is not user-definable
    and seems to be variable -- not consistently the 25 quoted above.\r\n\r\nI just
    tried it with a few different fonts. Whitman-Roman broke at +18 and -52. But WhitmanDisplay-Regular
    broke at +16 and -47. MillerText-Roman breaks at +20 and -56.\r\n\r\nInteresting.
    I don't know what InDesign is using to calculate its threshold. Perhaps its based
    on widths of base characters. \r\n\r\nRegarding using OT alt forms and substitution
    to create \"natural\" ligatures: It seems to me that any form of f that you design
    to merge gracefully with a following ascender will also stop working so nicely
    beyond a certain threshold range, and in the end may not be any better solution
    to this perceived problem than the \"break above\" software solution.\r\n\r\n(Although,
    I agree, an expert function that allowed user re-definition of thresholds would
    be a nice feature.)\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-27 15:49:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The threshold, however, is not user-definable and seems to be variable\r\n\r\nInteresting,
    and encouraging.\r\n\r\n> I don\u2019t know what InDesign is using to calculate
    its threshold.\r\n\r\nSome component of its optical spacing module, most likely.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-27 16:15:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "There was an earlier discussion of Trinit\xE9 bearing on this issue. IIRC,
    according to those familiar with it, it is designed without kerning or ligatures.
    I gather that the hook on the f 'swallows' the dot on the i and combine with other
    characters smoothly. However, apparently the big overhang on the f presents a
    problem at the end of words, as it closes up the word space too much. Of course
    this could be taken care of, in principle, by an alternate f or kerning with the
    space.  "
  created: '2007-05-27 18:32:40'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Re: Trinit\xE9: <cite>I gather that the hook on the f \u2018swallows\u2019
    the dot on the i and combine with other characters smoothly</cite>\r\n\r\nAlmost,
    but not quite. I wouldn't call it smooth. It needs both f-ligatures and a terminal
    \"f\". As I remember, even the designer later felt the font needed ligatures and
    kerning.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-27 19:27:35'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Hrant I still don't buy the notion of the elephant completely. I do agree
    that things go wrong quickly. Very. But I can't believe that it's a all or nothing
    kind of thing. There must be a curve even if it's a small one. And I think it's
    likely that the design of the font itself will be a factor as well. In other words
    some fonts will look worse faster than others. So the devil will be in the details
    - the combnation & the design. \r\n\r\nOne reason I had been thinking about this
    model for ligatures has to do with the ideas I had about making special pro-notan
    pairs & triples etc. If you go to that much trouble then it seemed like having
    a modular ligature structure might be more efficient/practical and might help
    to mitigate in some real-world usage issues as well. In the system I am thinking
    about it may be that doing this is still a good idea, it just won't perform 'better'
    than the old model in some cases. And in fact it might be worse in extreme cases
    because the InDesign Code won't let the ligatures turn off. Still, using the Logic
    of John & Hrant the text is 'busted' by then anyway. Maybe making that more obvious
    is good.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-28 00:50:58'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "> the InDesign Code won\u2019t let the ligatures turn off.\r\n\r\n? Please
    explain. I'm not understanding what you mean.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-05-28 02:44:05'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks very much for asking. What I was saying was very speculative - but
    here is my reasoning.  ( all untested & under-researched )\r\n\r\na. When you
    make a ligature in the normal way you are making a single glyph to replace two
    or three.  So I don't think the Lig tag supports multiple glyphs making a ligature.
    Is this right?\r\n\r\nb. Indesign is looking for a Lig tag to invoke turning off
    Ligatures after tracking gets above a certain point. That's right isn't it? If
    I am using tags other than Lig to make my 'visual' ligatures made from multiple
    glyphs as oposed to 'code' ligatures of one glyph I can't expect InDesign to somehow
    understand this non-standard way of making a ligature.\r\n\r\nWhat do you think?
    \r\n\r\nAnd actually - what do you think of the original idea from a type point
    of view?"
  created: '2007-05-28 04:02:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I can\u2019t believe that it\u2019s a all or nothing kind of thing.\r\n\r\nMe
    neither. But, to repeat, by the time a ligature in tracked text starts\r\nlooking
    unpleasant you're already way past the point of ravaged notan.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-28 05:42:20'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I don't disagree with you there at all. At the risk of just being repetitive:
    Assuming that the break occurs after a narrow range of perhaps 5-7% letterspacing*
    ( the negative would be narrower still ) maybe the Notan is better preserved with
    micro-movements than with no movement at all. If so, the sweet spot itself isn't
    enlarged exactly - but it is blurred outwards. The point being 3% might be quite
    a bit better with the model I have in mind.\r\n\r\n*Were do you think the break
    is?\r\n\r\nThe thing is, I actually like a ragged right better than justfied setting,
    but I don't imagine I can dictate that sort of thing to the buyer of my fonts.\r\n\r\nI
    have related question too - maybe Gerald Lange can aswer this one: with letterpress
    the spacing in justified texts would be just between words - correct? At least
    in a long running text. Or would a letter setter put space between the letters
    themselves like InDesign does? Obviously you could do either thing. But what was
    typical?\r\n\r\nIf it was typical to set space just between words then my next
    question is - can you somehow make an H&J in InDesign do that for you as well?"
  created: '2007-05-28 09:10:19'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Eben --\r\n\r\nGerald can weigh in with more direct experience, but I believe
    that adding space between letters was pretty impractical for justifying when setting
    by hand. Sure you could do it, but what comp would spend his time doing so? (Especially
    when the practice was so frowned upon -- cue Goudy quote).\r\n\r\nThe justification
    mechanism in Linotype operated solely on the word spaces. I pretty certain this
    was the case with Monotype also, but I am not as well acquainted with that technology.\r\n\r\n<cite>can
    you somehow make an H&J in InDesign do that for you as well?</cite>\r\n\r\nSure,
    just set the Justification > Letter Spacing to 0% Minimum | 0% Desired | 0% Maximum.
    That should direct the algorithm to operate only on word spaces (assuming you
    also leave Glyph Scaling alone at 100%, of course). \r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2007-05-28 13:23:57'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks Kent! \r\n\r\nWould you ever consider using such a scheme like the
    one you described? "
  created: '2007-05-28 17:29:43'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Scheme -- Do you mean the H&J setting I described? Of course. I frequently
    use justification settings that leave character spacing alone. Naturally, it depends
    upon the work at hand and the typeface being used, but 0% char spacing is a typical
    starting point.\r\n\r\nIsn't this the InDesign default starting point? I'm sure
    I've tweaked all my default prefs, so I can't be sure what was there to begin
    with. But I thought Adobe's default was decent.\r\n\r\nI do recall vividly that
    the Quark default is (or used to be) totally whacked, something along the lines
    of Char Space: -4% Min / 0% Opt / 4% Max. I always advised designers to immediately
    change that default. (And I could always tell when they hadn't.)\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-29 13:10:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, by default Quark assumes a font is badly made.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-29 14:09:31'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Eben:\r\n\r\na) Certainly the OpenType spec suggests that the 'liga' feature
    would consist of many-to-one substitutions, and applications might be forgiven
    if they expect this. But it's certainly possible to stick something like this
    in the 'liga' feature, at least as an experiment to see what happens.\r\n\r\nb)
    That's right, you can't expect InDesign to turn off arbitrary other features because
    you happen to use them to do 'liga'-like things. However, InDesign already treats
    'calt' in a similar way, and it would be a logical place for the functionality
    you describe, I think.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 00:01:59'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks T!\r\n\r\nI have InDesign CS3 & CS2 and I plan on attempting this
    to see what I think of the results. When I do I will see what I can get from both
    Liga & Calt. When I have; I will post my visual & technical results here."
  created: '2007-05-30 03:06:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Eben, as an example of a (<em>very</em> widely distributed) font that uses
    something other than a many-to-one ligation lookup in the 'liga' feature, take
    a look at Jelle Bosma's Cambria type, one of the MS ClearType Collection families.
    It uses a contextual substitution in the 'liga' feature that changes the f to
    one with a smaller terminal; this substitution happens before any (left side)
    ascender or narrow letter with dot or accent above.
  created: '2007-05-30 06:39:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: John, Thank you very much!
  created: '2007-05-30 21:49:08'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "H.P.\u2014<cite>This is not a scratch on a watch, this is an elephant stomping
    on a watch.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think that scenario was used as a demonstration in
    a Timex commercial back in the \u201970s.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 23:00:00'
date: '2007-05-26 20:50:54'
node_type: forum
title: 'OpenType: single glyph ligatures vs. ligatures built of multiple glyphs'

---
