---
author:
  name: Nick Shinn
  picture: 110193
body: "Here are a few ideas:\r\n\r\nSuperior: \r\n\xAE becomes \"registered.alt\"
  -- a small, superior version of the character\r\n\u2020 becomes \"dagger.alt\" --
  a small, superior version of the character\r\n\u2021 becomes \"daggerdbl.alt\" --
  a small, superior version of the character\r\n\r\n\r\nStylistic alternates:\r\n'
  becomes \"second\"\r\n\" becomes \"minute\"\r\nx becomes \"multiply\"\r\n- becomes
  \"minus\"\r\nl becomes \"liter\" (u+2113)\r\n> becomes \"fist\" (u+261E)\r\n\r\nThese
  seem reasonably intuitive.\r\nIs there any reason not to implement them?\r\nAnything
  else that could be added?"
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I think the superior ideas are fine. There are quite a lot of characters
    that may take superior forms in some kinds of publications, and most do not have
    dedicated superior encodings in Unicode. So using the 'sups' layout feature is
    the obvious and legitimate way to access them.\r\n\r\nBut I disagree with your
    proposed stylistic alternates, because all the target glyphs do have their own
    Unicode encodings, and if someone wants those specific forms then they should
    use the appropriate characters, not disguise other characters as them. The fact
    that lots of people type x instead of \xD7 doesn't mean that the latter is a stylistic
    variant of the former; it just means that those people are using the wrong character.
    And who says that the fist is a stylistic variant of >? why not a stylistic variant
    of \u2022? Thankfully, we don't need to play such guessing games, because we have
    \u261E"
  created: '2007-05-30 06:30:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I agree with your criticism in principle, but in practice it's very hard
    to find unusual characters in the glyph palette, especially in OT fonts with 1000s
    of characters. It always used to bug me looking for the \"second\" and \"minute\"
    in the Symbol font, with only 100 or so.\r\n\r\nPossible negative consequence
    of this stylistic alternates proposal: a document with a \"liter\" symbol is set
    in a font using the \"el-to-liter\" feature, but then reset in a font that just
    sets the plain \"l\"; or the fist comes out as >; or multiply reverts to x, etc.
    Is that so terrible? Surely the meaning is intact, although some typographic subtlety
    is lost."
  created: '2007-05-30 11:13:16'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "I agree with John.\r\n\r\nMany of Adobe's early Pro fonts have similar kinds
    of substitutions (e.g. in Warnock Pro the ornaments are alternates of lowercase
    Latin letters), but this is not really a good practice*. These and other substitutions
    (like <code>sub [a A] by ordfeminine;</code>) were implemented in the font to
    make its usage convenient from the user's POV, but they're not good because they
    replace character(s) by other character(s). On the other hand, a substitution
    like <code>sub a by a.superior;</code> is perfectly legitimate, as long as 'a.superior'
    is left uncoded. (FWIW, a superior variant of the lowercase 'a' is not present
    in Unicode; although 'a.superior' and 'ordfeminine' U+00AA might look alike and
    even share the same glyph form, they are semantically different)\r\n\r\nThe bottom
    line is, OpenType layout (OTL) should not be involved in character transformations.
    The user is the one responsible for encoding his/her message appropriately, and
    this means using the correct codepoints, even if these are not readily accessible
    from the keyboard. The function of OTL is to style the message/content, not to
    alter it.\r\n\r\n* Unlike the 'fist', which is encoded in Unicode, ornaments are
    an interesting case because they don't have their own codepoint, so how should
    we access them/provide access to them? The current practice we're using is to
    treat them as alternates of the 'bullet'. This treatment does not apply to dingbats
    and other symbols such as arrows, since these generally have their own Unicode
    codepoints."
  created: '2007-05-30 14:34:55'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Nick,\r\n\r\nFor a comp anyway, the best way to enter such characters in
    InDesign is to enter the the Unicode number, not by using the Glyph Pallet. Using
    the Glyph Pallet puts all sorts of extra code in the file, which may or may not
    block other actions, like ligaturing.\r\n\r\nMore important is that you kern your
    minutes/seconds characters (aka prime/doubleprime) properly with all the numbers,
    and the period (check an ISBN format)\r\n\r\nI suppose less and less composition
    is being done by compositors & more & more by graphic designers. You know your
    market. But to take this another step back & let composition fall to the font
    designer seems fraught with peril."
  created: '2007-05-30 16:42:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick, remember the old adage that typography should serve the text? Let me
    propose a new one: digital typography should serve digital text. One of the implications
    of this is that the default glyph for a given character should not pretend to
    be a different character. Digital typography and text processing present us with
    a complex set of relationships between glyphs and characters, and we shouldn't
    make it any more complicated and we should avoid situations in which we basically
    use glyphs to lie about the identity of the underlying character.\r\n\r\nWe've
    fairly recently come out of a period in which designers became used to using encoding
    hacks to get at the glyph shapes they wanted (e.g. 'expert sets' for ligatures).
    These hacks were necessary because of the lack of a suitable mechanism for cleanly
    weaving display and text encoding. Now, with Unicode and OpenType, we have such
    a mechanism, but we also have a lot of possibilities for using glyph hacks to
    get at the glyph shapes of characters that might be less convenient to enter in
    text (despite the profusion of input methods, character and glyph pallettes, custom
    keyboard drivers, etc.). I understand the motivation, but I think it obscures
    exactly what we have gained in the Unicode/OpenType model -- a way to separate
    the sophisticated display of text from the encoding of text -- and that gain is
    best appreciated, and not needlessly muddied, if one observes some basic principles
    about character identity."
  created: '2007-05-30 19:48:10'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Hello Charles, in ISBN I find numerals with hyphen mostly, do you mean kerning
    period with minutes/seconds, or period with numberals? Good tip to enter the Unicode
    number in InDesign, I was not aware that this is possible.\r\n\r\nHello Nick,
    to second what Miguel says: In very early versions of my fonts, 'ornm' substituted
    letters by arrows. Soon I understood why Adobe discontinued this practice, and
    remove this kind of substitution. Funny effect was that when I applied the new
    font versions on text originally set with previous ones, arrows turned into As
    & Bs again, and I didn't even recognize at first: letters in a stream of letters
    ... Same would happen if someone changes fonts that do have such fatures to fonts
    that don't. Such sudden changes may go unnoticed in our fast world.\r\n\r\n<cite>I
    agree with your criticism in principle, but in practice it\u2019s very hard to
    find unusual characters in the glyph palette, especially in OT fonts with 1000s
    of characters.</cite>\r\n\r\nFinding a particular glyph in a large font will always
    be a 'challenge', but sorting glyphs nicely make help a little, like, a group
    for uppercase, smallcaps, lowercase, punctuation, numerals, numeral-related punctuation,
    etc."
  created: '2007-05-30 20:56:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>sorting glyphs nicely</em>\r\n\r\nHow do you do that?\r\nAny good models
    to follow?\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 21:01:02'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Any good models to follow?</em>\r\n\r\nset your font to unicode mode
    and then go to gylphs > sort glyphs > by encoding. then switch to index mode and
    you can drag things around to where you'd like them to be. once you have everything
    set, you can save a custom encoding, next time you want to sort glyphs, set font
    to names mode, select your custom encoding and then go to glyphs > sort glyphs
    > by encoding. if there are any characters that are outside this encoding, you
    can again switch to index mode and move glyphs around as you like."
  created: '2007-05-30 21:07:10'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "And don't forget to switch the OpenType export option \"automatically reorder
    (or was it sort?) glyphs\" off.\r\n\r\nGood model -- hard to say. I think the
    order in the CT fonts is quite reasonable. Mine is a bit different. I am not aware
    of other examples and would be interested to see some.\r\nBy the way, 'nice' sorting
    is even possible when using the AFDKO. Just sort the content of the GOAADB file
    as you like."
  created: '2007-05-30 21:25:05'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Regarding glyph-sorting on the Glyph palette, I'll take this opportunity
    to point out that InDesign CS3 allows the glyphs to be sorted by Unicode*, in
    addition to the usual GID order. \r\n\r\nThe images below display the same font
    sorted by GID (top) and by Unicode (bottom). The new sorting method might be more
    intuitive for some people, as it puts together all the things that are somehow
    related with each other.\r\n\r\n* Unencoded glyphs, such as alternates and ligatures,
    are sorted as well.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IDCS3_GIDsort_4326.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IDCS3_UNIsort_5005.png]"
  created: '2007-05-30 21:51:13'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite>KL: Hello Charles, in ISBN I find numerals with hyphen mostly, do you
    mean kerning period with minutes/seconds, or period with numberals?</cite>\r\n\r\nKarsten,
    I think Charles meant to reference the LOC CIP listing, not ISBN. In the CIP data
    (formally: Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data), there is a catalog
    string that frequently uses a prime (very often mistakenly converted to an apostrophe
    by inattentive comps) and which may occur in conjunction with a period (although,
    off-hand, I can't think of an instance where I've encountered this).\r\n\r\nCharles,
    did I get that right?\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2007-05-30 22:29:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Miguel, if I want to have a category appear in the InD glyph palette "show"
    pull-down menu, named "Mathematical symbols", and another named "Miscellaneous
    symbols", how do I create that in the font?
  created: '2007-05-30 22:47:22'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>if I want to have a category appear in the InD glyph palette \u201Cshow\u201D
    pull-down menu, [...] how do I create that in the font?</em>\r\n\r\nYou can't.
    InDesign builds these categories, based on the font's character set and OpenType
    features included in it (top pic). However, in CS3 the user can make his/her own
    set(s) (bottom pic), which will appear on that drop-down menu.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gPalette_menu_4046.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gPalette_customSet_5306.png]"
  created: '2007-05-30 23:51:15'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "KL -- <cite>I think Charles meant to reference the LOC CIP listing, not ISBN.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    see. I had to search through a couple of books to finally find this in some IUP
    titles, indeed one of them showing an apostrophe, and in another the minute sign
    is followed by a period. Many thanks!"
  created: '2007-05-31 00:23:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick, regarding organising glyph sets in intuitive ways to assist users of
    glyph pallette entry:\r\n\r\nPretty much every project I do begins with the definition
    of a glyph set, usually in an Excel spreadsheet. This will contain at minimum
    a list of my development (human friendly) glyph names and corresponding Adobe
    Glyph List and uniXXXX form final names. I often include other information: if
    for instance I am working on a script for which I do not already have a FontLab
    .nam names-to-Unicode mapping, I will include encoding information in the spreadsheet.
    Obviously, after one has done a number of projects one has a collection of spreadsheets
    which can easily be manipulated to build new glyph sets. The listing of glyphs
    names can be copied into FontLab .enc files to create custom 'encodings', i.e.
    glyph sets in FontLab.\r\n\r\nUsing this approach, I group like-with-like glyphs
    in ways that, I hope, will be intuitive for locating and selecting from glyph
    pallettes."
  created: '2007-05-31 02:17:36'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Kent, Karsten, you're right -- My mistake. For books published in the states,
    perhaps as a remnant of times when library sales were important to university
    preses, there was a block of copy furnished by the Library of Congress which was
    usually printed on the Copyright page. If it was in the book when printed, and
    in the same form as provided by LOC, the libraries could, in theory, get the books
    on the shelves faster.\r\n\r\nThe content of the copy was inviolate. The form
    was suppose to be followed as well, but Richard Eckersley (designer of <cite>The
    Telephone Book</cite>) started a bit of a revolution over that one, so now the
    form is often more in keeping with the rest of the interior design.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    the number I was talking about, my wife informs me, is (she thinks) part of the
    Dewey Decimal system, and she further informs me that the prime seems to be absent
    from the newest material.\r\n\r\nEdit:\r\n\r\nFor an example: <cite>Retreat from
    Gettysburg</cite> by Kent Masterson Brown, University of North Carolina Press,
    ISBN 0-8078-2921-8 & \"funny little number\" 973.7'349--dc22 (& BTW, my Janson).
    I have seen the period \"interact\" with the prime, but don't have one to hand.\r\n.
    . . \r\n\r\nYou can enter a Unicode character in ID2 running under Windows XC.
    As I sit at home typing on a Mac with an old keyboard, I'll probably make a mistake
    here too, but I believe if you hold down the shift+alt keys, and use the numeric
    key pad for any numbers, you'll get the Unicode character. There is a way using
    MS Word, too (again, Windows). "
  created: '2007-05-31 02:23:21'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i'd like to hear Adam Twardoch's take on this issue. Adam, are you out there?
  created: '2007-05-31 20:03:13'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> \u2019 becomes \u201Csecond\u201D\r\n> \u201D becomes \u201Cminute\u201D\r\n\r\nYou
    mean: \u2019 becomes \u2033(which means \"second\") and \u201D becomes \u2032(which
    means \"minute\")??? \r\n\r\nTo me, it makes no sense whatsoever. Why would one
    stroke be replaced by two strokes, and two strokes be replaced by one stroke?
    \r\n\r\nWell, I know, you made a typo and meant this to be the other way around,
    but it actually shows very well that your concept is flawed. It defeats WYSIWYG,
    it defeats Unicode. \r\n\r\nI definitely recommend AGAINST \"codepoint hacking\",
    i.e. assigning characters that have their own Unicode codepoints as glyph alternates
    of characters that have other Unicode codepoints, and are only mildly related
    by appearance. \r\n\r\nThe problem is that you invalidate the principle of \"text
    accessibility\". If you lie about the semantic level of text, i.e. you use a hack
    encoding to represent the litre symbol using the letter \"l\", then texts encoded
    electronically using Unicode lose their primary advantage, namely that the encoding
    of the text is *predictable*. Which means that one can cut-and-paste the text
    into a different software and he will get an approximation that will be as good
    as possible, even set in a different font. If the font is not available, the replacement
    will at least not be awkward. \r\n\r\nWhat if someone (a disabled person) uses
    a screen reading software? This software does not \"see\" the glyphs, it can only
    read the character encoding out loud. The screen reader software would read \"two
    ex three\" instead of \"two times three\", and \"two hyphen five\" instead of
    \"two minus five\". \r\n\r\nWhat if somebody is using search-and-replace in the
    \"naiive\" hope that what he sees as being a minute or second symbol actually
    is encoded as such? What if in half of the book typeset using your font the symbol
    has been typed in using the proper Unicode, and in the other half it was typed
    in using the hack Unicode with the feature applied? What if then, someone needs
    to do some text transformation, like global search-and-replace? \r\n\r\nI mean,
    theoretically, you could put code in your font such as\r\n\r\n<code>feature calt
    {\r\n  sub quotedbl' [A-Z a-z] by quotedblleft;\r\n  sub [A-Z a-z] quotedbl' by
    quotedblright;\r\n} calt;</code>\r\n\r\nbut this is just a nasty hack. The encoding
    starts to be font-dependant again, and we are back to times where you had to type
    in \"M\" to get a \"fi\" ligature. \r\n\r\nRemember old typewriters on which there
    was no key for digit \"1\" because the user was supposed to type in lowercase
    \"l\" instead? My mom had one like that. Well, why, it worked fine back then.
    These two glyphs look as much alike as \u2033 and \u201D. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: SuzyMac
    body: "Thank you so much for including accessibility. I am a designer working
      with the blind and appreciate your knowledge and sharing regarding screen reading
      software. Right now I am just finishing up a degree and typography is a passion
      for me.The Open Type Glyph issue is new to me, but want I want to get the proper
      tools and training to do this correctly so that my designs work for sighted
      and blind/vi. I am guessing that this kind of \"hacking\" may be a reason that
      my Braille translations often turn out some weird and unexpected codes. \r\nCheers,\r\nGreeta
      Ahart"
    created: '2014-06-15 17:48:46'
  - author:
      name: SuzyMac
    body: Any information about which fonts are best to use for open type glyphs is
      appreciated. Most of my work is printed, but I always create accessible PDFs
      for my colleagues and clients who want digital rather than Braille.
    created: '2014-06-15 17:55:07'
  created: '2007-06-01 00:49:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "So I take it you're no fan of Smarty Pants?\r\n\r\nOr similar \"curly-quote\"
    hacks in Quark and inDesign?\r\n\r\nIf those guys can get away with that kind
    of crap, why shouldn't I? :-)"
  created: '2007-06-01 04:36:28'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "i understand that it's all about respecting the character input string, so
    we should just design fonts so as not to allow for lazy input? is a string of
    1/8 really preferable to \u215B when the latter is what is actually intended?
    I guess that's the thing though, is that we can't really guess what the user is
    intending, eh? we'd have a pretty good idea, however, if the user types 1/8, highlights
    the text, and then switches on the 'frac' feature. hmmm, but that seems just as
    much work as just selecting the appropriate glyph from the palette in the first
    place. i guess i just needed to post so as to talk myself into doing things the
    \"correct\" way. thanks for all your input everyone, a great discussion."
  created: '2007-06-01 04:56:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Nick, when curly quotes are automatically substitued for ' and " keystrokes
    in InDesign etc. this is a <em>character</em> conversion. When you enter "QUOTE"
    what ends up in the text string are the curly quote characters U+201C and U+201D,
    not the keyboard entered straight quote U+0022. Essentially, the application providing
    users with an input method editor for typographical quote mark characters. This
    is a very different scenario from what you are proposing, which is a glyph conversion.
  created: '2007-06-01 06:19:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Paul, fractions are an interesting case. A fairly small subset of common
    fractions happens to be encoded in Unicode as precomposed characters, e.g. \u215B;
    so far as I can gather, most of these encodings are for backwards compatibility.
    But fractions are by their nature generative and one very quickly exceeds that
    set of common fractions if one starts doing things with them: a fraction is, after
    all, a mathematical expression, a way of writing a division operation. So the
    logical way to encode fractions is as numerals separated by an operator: 1/8."
  created: '2007-06-01 06:30:23'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "N.S. -- <cite>So I take it you\u2019re no fan of Smarty Pants?</cite>\r\n<cite>Or
    similar \u201Ccurly-quote\u201D hacks in Quark and inDesign?</cite>\r\n\r\nOn
    application level, yes, this is typing assistance.\r\nOn font level, no. After
    all, fonts are databases providing applications with glyph outlines, and today
    may also include alterations of the outlines (substitution, repositioning).\r\n\r\nJ.H.
    -- <cite>But fractions are by their nature generative and one very quickly exceeds
    that set of common fractions if one starts doing things with them</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    like this description.\r\nA similar case is fi/fl. If you design a sanserif typeface
    \ which does not need ligatures, you still add fi/fl for backward compatibility
    (MacOS Roman) but do not cover them in 'liga'. And hope nobody would select them
    from the glyph palette.\r\n\r\n(Were nice if a flag would allow type designers
    to <cite>hide</cite> certain glyphs from the palette.)"
  created: '2007-06-01 11:06:59'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "\"Smarty Pants\" are an extension of the keyboard driver -- assisting the
    user in typing in the correct Unicode. That's perfectly fine, because what ends
    up in the electronic text is Unicode-compatible, i.e. is what everybody expects.
    \r\n\r\nThe advantage of a standard is that it is a standard. Unicode has great
    chances to become THE standard to encode human writing (except perhaps for CJK
    languages that have some alternatives). \r\n\r\nThe WYSIWYG principle (What You
    See Is What You Get) these days is not only limited to \"what you see on screen
    is what you get on the printer\". It also means \"what you see on screen is what
    you get when you copy-paste or search\". This is why Adobe-compliant glyph names
    are important, and this is why adherence to the Unicode standard is important.
    \r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2007-06-01 12:59:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "OK, more devil's advocacy:\r\n\r\nStandards aren't the be-all and end-all.
    They're just a means to an end, and sometimes the means can screw up the end.\r\n\r\nI
    appreciate the breadth of John and Adam's concern for the integrity of the text
    across different media, but this may sacrifice initial typographic quality, and
    that seems absurd in, for instance a print piece where the text has little likelihood
    of being digitally searched, or reset.\r\n\r\n<em> the old adage that typography
    should serve the text?</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not sure how old that one is, although
    it does kick off Bringhurst's Style Guide (\"honour\" the text, actually). The
    older adage is serving the reader.\r\n\r\nAs Charles mentioned, knowing one's
    market (or audience) is important, and I wonder how many typographers who might
    be inclined to use the special characters I mentioned, would be comfortable entering
    unicode numbers? Not many, I would say -- they're going to use the glyph palette,
    now clutttered up with the wonders of massive Unicoded OT fonts. Sure, the filing
    systems described by Miguel will help, but in practice it's next to impossible
    to distinguish an apostrophe from a minute from an acute from a tonos. \r\n\r\nI
    am always amazed to come across typographic boo-boos in communications from blue-chip
    companies. Never mind that, in its printed missives to the design industry, Veer
    routinely abbreviates numbers with left-quotes, following the InDesign/SmartyPants
    practice. Good WYSIWYG, but poor typography.\r\n\r\nSurely the best way to encourage
    typographers to produce more sophisticated typography -- to serve the reading
    public, not the great god WYSIWYG -- is to make it really easy for them to, for
    instance, set the multiply sign, by simply applying the \"Stylistic Alternate\"
    feature to the character that's already in the text? (It would certainly have
    been easier for me to do something like that earlier in this thread, where I got
    minute and second muddled.)\r\n\r\nAnd despite Unicode's assertion that x and
    multiply are different characters, visually they really are stylistic alternates
    of the same character shape, and, in the context of any text where a faux Stylistic
    Alternate substitution would be made, there could never be any problem with meaning.
    Even in proper maths, because an italic font would be used for \"x\", precisely
    because of the interchangeability of \"x\" and \"multiply\".\r\n\r\nConsider this
    hypothetical scenario: an InDesigner is setting the captions for an art catalogue,
    and, for the artwork dimensions, wants to insert the correct multiply symbol in
    place of the manuscript's \"x\", throughout the text. Global substitution won't
    work, as that would change all \"x\"s, so \"find/change\" might be used. Except
    that the glyph palette doesn't connect to the \"change to\" field, and \"multiply\"
    isn't one of the characters available in the list of suitable substitutions (nice
    touch Adobe, BTW). So the InDesigner must do the job manually. I would be inclined
    to make the change once, then copy and paste. But how to make the first change
    from x to multiply? The glyph palette, of course, but if the font has the \"salt
    hack\" I'm proposing, that would be easier. And it would also work to convert
    the hash marks that measure the painting sizes in inches, into the proper inch
    mark (second).\r\n\r\nIn the most recent art catalogue I have (Contact photo festival),
    the designer has used all caps of a sans face (X really does look like multiply),
    and spelled out inches -- I would guess the difficulty of getting the proper characters/symbols
    has something to do with that decision.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-01 17:56:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>Consider this hypothetical scenario...</em>\r\n\r\nNot so hypothetical:
    this is the sort of thing I do on a regular basis. It's a pity that the glyph
    pallette doesn't accept focus to the find/replace dialogue, but this is easy enough
    to workaround. Make one manual substitution and then copy/paste the multiply symbol
    into the replace field of the dialogue and away you go.\r\n\r\nWhat would make
    it easier? If the find/replace dialogue had context fields! Then you could say,
    e.g. replace x with \xD7 when preceded and followed by any numeral. I think context
    fields should be standard in find/replace functions, and am amazed that no one
    seems to have thought of this.\r\n\r\nBut the basic point, Nick, is this: what
    you are complaining about is application functionality. And I don't think it makes
    any sense to try to solve application limitations in fonts. It is something that
    is very tempting to do sometimes, especially if it seems like there is an easy
    way to do it, but having spent the past decade working closely with application
    developers I've come to the conclusion that it is a really bad idea to second-guess
    them. Chances are that the way the application works will change -- hopefully
    improve -- and you are left with a quirky font that does odd things and a pile
    of poorly encoded text."
  created: '2007-06-01 18:14:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>replace x with \xD7 when preceded and followed by any numeral</em>\r\n\r\nI
    had thought of doing that as Contextual Alternate, but it could screw up product
    code numbers. But yes, context fields in Find/Change, good idea!\r\n\r\n<em> what
    you are complaining about is application functionality.</em>\r\n\r\nIt would be
    good if multiply and minus were on the keyboard too, like plus and equals.\r\nAnd
    curly quotes. \r\n\r\n<em>I don\u2019t think it makes any sense to try to solve
    application limitations in fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nIt can be useful. The alternate
    glyphs in the case feature, for instance, solve an application problem (manual
    application of baseline shift) by automatically repositioning punctuation such
    as parentheses.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nHow about if instead of substituting \"Multiply\",
    applying Stylistic Alternate to \"x\" substitutes \"x.alt\" -- which has the same
    glyph as Multiply?\r\n\r\nThat way it doesn't mess with the Unicode.\r\nAnd whereas
    the original manuscript was a \"lie\", in that it tried to pass off \"x\" for
    Multiply, the substitution of the correct glyph is true to the text's meaning.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-01 20:41:18'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>As Charles mentioned . . .</cite>\r\n\r\nJust to keep things clear,
    I think this a bad idea. You've had lots of good ones, but I don't feel this is
    one of them. If someone doesn't know how to set the needed character(s), they
    aren't a typesetter, let alone a compositor. No effort by a typefounder can change
    that, and will often get in the way of those who do know what they are doing.\r\n\r\nFWIW"
  created: '2007-06-01 22:22:43'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Nick: <em>but in practice it\u2019s next to impossible to distinguish an
    apostrophe from a minute from an acute from a tonos.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's what the
    Glyph palette's tooltip is for.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/quoteright_ttip_4605.png][img:sites/default/files/old-images/singlequote_ttip_5058.png][img:sites/default/files/old-images/acute_ttip_5089.png][img:sites/default/files/old-images/prime_ttip_4004.png]\r\n\r\nJohn:
    <em>What would make it easier? If the find/replace dialogue had context fields!
    Then you could say, e.g. replace x with \xD7 when preceded and followed by any
    numeral.</em>\r\n\r\nYou can do that with GREP, in InDesign CS3. The Find/Change
    expressions would be:\r\nFind what: <code>(\\d)x(\\d)</code>\r\nChange to: <code>$1\xD7$2</code>\r\n\r\nNick:
    <em>How about if instead of substituting \u201CMultiply\u201D, applying Stylistic
    Alternate to \u201Cx\u201D substitutes \u201Cx.alt\u201D \u2014 which has the
    same glyph as Multiply?</em>\r\n\r\nThat is a \"better\" approach, but it does
    not solve anything. The underlying character will still be 'x', therefore any
    Search/Replace or screen reader software will always be fooled by that. They \"see\"
    characters, not glyphs."
  created: '2007-06-01 23:02:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Miguel: I don't get the Name line -- but then, I'm using CS (not CS2 or CS3)
    -- is that a later addition?\r\n\r\n<em>That is a \u201Cbetter\u201D approach,
    but it does not solve anything.</em>\r\n\r\nI think it does for print, although
    the screen reader will always be problematic. \r\nBTW how does the screen reader
    handle \"second\"? -- it's going to get it wrong if it's supposed to be inches
    or degree of arc! Those should have separate Unicode points...\r\n\r\nAdam: <em>What
    if in half of the book typeset using your font the symbol has been typed in using
    the proper Unicode, and in the other half it was typed in using the hack Unicode
    with the feature applied? </em>\r\n\r\nI see what you mean. Or if a typographer
    has already been through the text and changed all the \"x\"s to faux \"multiply\",
    using my suggested Stylistic Alternate feature, and then the font is changed to
    one without such a feature, it would be a pain to have to do it all over again
    with the correct Unicode procedure.\r\n\r\nSo I'm conviced it's a *bad idea* and
    won't do it in any fonts.\r\n\r\nCharles: <em>If someone doesn\u2019t know how
    to set the needed character(s), they aren\u2019t a typesetter, let alone a compositor.
    </em>\r\n\r\nI'm floating the idea of making things more convenient for people
    who do know, and more accessible for those on the cusp. And those still using
    CS who aren't getting the TypeTip names.\r\n\r\nYou know, I posted this same thread
    in the general section and got one response (plus Adam). I just get the feeling
    that we're so into all these OpenType complexities, ramping up the characters
    and features in fonts, while the OT menu remains buried and unheralded in CS and
    Quark (not to mention Microsoft) -- and meanwhile the vast majority of users think
    OpenType is just for fancy script ligatures.\r\n\r\nWe need more Ilenes spreading
    the news!\r\nhttp://www.fonts.com/AboutFonts/Articles/fyti/06-01-05.htm\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-02 00:32:07'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>I don\u2019t get the Name line \u2014 but then, I\u2019m using CS (not
    CS2 or CS3) \u2014 is that a later addition?</em>\r\n\r\nNot sure when it got
    added, but it's definitely in CS2. It got improved in CS3, where the \"Name:\"
    entry was added. The tooltip is also displayed for alternate glyphs and ligatures.
    In these cases, the Unicode displayed is the one of the base character(s).\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/liga_ttip_4415.png][img:sites/default/files/old-images/smcp_ttip_6559.png][img:sites/default/files/old-images/ornm_ttip_4713.png]\r\n\r\n>
    <em>BTW how does the screen reader handle \u201Csecond\u201D? \u2014 it\u2019s
    going to get it wrong if it\u2019s supposed to be inches or degree of arc! Those
    should have separate Unicode points\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not sure how the reader
    will make the distinction between minutes and feet, or between seconds and inches,
    given that there's only one codepoint for each. Unicode calls them 'prime' and
    'double prime'. http://www.unicode.org/charts/PDF/U2000.pdf\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-02 01:13:52'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> X really does look like multiply\r\n\r\nIn some fonts X really looks like
    multiply, and in some fonts l really looks like 1. In some fonts, rn looks like
    m. So what? Would you put this code into your font: \r\n\r\n<code>feature liga
    {\r\nsub r n by m; \r\n} liga;</code> \r\n\r\n? Makes no sense whatsoever. \r\n\r\nCharacter
    encoding must bear necessary semantic differentiation, because a lot of software
    depends on it. For example, in Unicode, some characters have the property of being
    \"letters\" while some don\u2019t, some have the property of having uppercase
    or lowercase variants, they belong to different writing systems etc. \r\n\r\nAll
    this information gets screwed up if you start making glyph alternates the way
    you suggest it. This interfers with various mechanisms such as spellchecking,
    hyphenation, the way OpenType features are being applied to a string or not. \r\n\r\nThe
    solutions you propose are OK for fonts that you produce on a completely custom
    basis, for very controlled, closed environment, where you maintain contact with
    the client in future. But never for retail fonts, because despite what you may
    write in your user\u2019s manual for the font, people will use the font their
    way, may use it on systems and applications that you never heard that they existed,
    and, above all, may use them *according* to the standards that you choose to ignore.
    \r\n\r\nThis reminds me of the situation when people started producing Cyrillic
    or CE fonts in Type 1 format in the early 1990s. They simply placed the Cyrillic
    glyphs, or the accented Polish or Czech glyphs, in the slots of Western glyphs
    (using the fact that one code position in the Western codepage stood for some
    particular character in the Cyrillic or CE codepage). They didn\u2019t care to
    set up appropriate glyph names and encoding flags. Those fonts worked fine in
    QuarkXPress 3 and 4, and in PageMaker, and in Illustrator 6, and in Photoshop
    4. \r\n\r\nBut these fonts are STILL in circulation. 15 years later, people moved
    to a Unicode-based system. When they open old Quark documents in Quark 7, the
    automatic conversion from codepage-based encodings to Unicode fails because Quark
    \"thinks\" the document is set in French and not in Russian, so the user ends
    up with character spaghetti. Also, these fonts are virtually unusable in Quark
    7 or InDesign. And the users curse the font vendor. \r\n\r\nOn the other hand,
    there are Type 1 fonts from other font vendors that were created by the rules.
    They worked just exactly as fine in the old apps, *and* 15 years later they still
    work, and the documents created with them also do work. \r\n\r\nIf you make the
    fonts \"your way\", they may work fine in InDesign CS3 but perhaps will stop working
    properly in InDesign CS5, because Adobe would have introduced a mathematical typesetting
    engine that correctly enters and formats math equations, but this engine might
    rely on arithmetic operators being encoded *properly*. So if the user opens an
    old document typeset in your font that says \"5\xD76\", the math engine will recognize
    this as an equation and add some extra spacing around the \xD7 sign accordingly,
    but if the text in the document looks like \r\n\"5\xD76\" but actually <em>says</em>
    \"5x6\", then the math engine may reformat it to \"5<em>x</em>6\" because it thinks
    the \"x\" is a variable name. \r\n\r\nEtc. etc. \r\n\r\nThe advantage of using
    standards is that they offer much larger future stability. I.e. even if the standards
    change or get replaced, there is a great chance that the people who develop the
    new or the modified standards in future will also develop <em>standard</em> ways
    of migrating the old structures to the new ones. If you deliberately <strong>break</strong>
    today's standards, it's almost certain that this will <strong>break</strong> the
    future migration, either of the fonts or of the documents that the font was used
    in. In any way, your users will be penalized -- either today (those who use your
    font on platforms that you didn\u2019t bother testing, or using them in a context
    that you didn\u2019t envision or that you deemed \"unimportant\") or tomorrow.
    \r\n\r\nI personally would always warn users from purchasing hack-encoded fonts.
    The graphic qualities of such fonts may be fine but the functional side of the
    design is broken. I'm not interested in wearing a wrist watch that looks great
    but every now and then randomly stops working for 15 seconds or jumps ahead one
    minute. The same is with fonts. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-02 18:26:17'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: This sort of substitution really should be a setting option in a layout program,
    but yes, never scripted within the font its self. A little tick on the style bar
    to indicate you're setting math, and even then * and / keystrokes should be substituted
    with multiply and divide (already standard for keying in those math functions),
    respectively,  to avoid ambiguity btweeen multiply and <em>x</em>.
  created: '2007-06-02 18:55:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Adam, I already capitulated.\r\n\r\nRegarding backwards compatability, just
    follow the money.\r\nYou can open a Quark 3 document on an Intel Mac, but only
    if you buy Quark 7. Don't need new fonts though, thanks to the stellar philanthropy
    of type foundries!\r\n\r\n<hack-encoded fonts>\r\n\r\nDon't you think that's a
    bit of a double standard?\r\n\r\nAfter all, Quark, InDesign and Word have incorporated
    faux features (bogus weight, italicization, scaling, small caps) since day one.\r\nTo
    paraphrase; the functional qualities of such software may be fine, but the typographic
    side of the design is broken.\r\n\r\nJohn states that fonts shouldn't attempt
    to fix application shortcomings with hacks, but the converse is exactly what apps
    do with faux features."
  created: '2007-06-02 19:16:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>It can be useful. The alternate glyphs in the case feature, for
    instance, solve an application problem (manual application of baseline shift)
    by automatically repositioning punctuation such as parentheses.</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    assumes that the effect of case feature substitutions is always equivalent to
    a baseline shift, but this is not so. case feature substitutions may involve changes
    to the form of glyphs as well as to their vertical positioning, not to mention
    spacing. In fonts in which the default numeral forms are oldstyle, it makes sense
    to put mappings to lining numerals in the case feature. So the case feature is
    not simply doing in the font what could be done at the application level: it is
    things that are glyph centric and need to be controlled at the font level.\r\n\r\n<em>John
    states that fonts shouldn\u2019t attempt to fix application shortcomings with
    hacks, but the converse is exactly what apps do with faux features.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd
    I likewise think that they should not or, at least, should not do so automatically.
    If, when the user clicked the italic button in Word, for example, a dialogue popped
    up saying\r\n\r\n'The font family you are using does not include an italic font.
    Do you want Word to slant the regular font to fake an italic?'\r\n\r\nthat would
    be preferable to automatic slanting.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-02 21:32:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>That assumes that the effect of case feature substitutions is always
    equivalent to a baseline shift...</em>\r\n\r\nThat wasn't my assumption, although
    I did express myself sloppily. Although I didn't say \"some of\" the alternate
    glyphs, I didn't mean *all* of the substitutions are equivalent to baseline shifts.\r\n\r\nI
    was just giving an example of how a font can solve a layout application difficulty.\r\n\r\nAnd
    really, isn't that how OpenType features work? The substitution coding is in the
    font.\r\nIt would in theory be possible to just name the glyphs in a font, and
    have the app do the substitutions. For instance, with \"one.numr\", \"fraction\",
    and \"nine.dnom\" as font glyphs, an application fraction-maker could construct
    11/99.\r\n\r\nI would imagine that might be how Adam's putative CS5 math engine
    would work.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-03 06:03:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Anyway, thanks for your comments, everybody.\r\nI'm glad the extra \"superior\"
    glyphs passed muster -- are there any others that could be added, other than these
    footnote symbols?"
  created: '2007-06-03 06:03:29'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "BTW, the faux italicization really comes from the *extremely* early days
    of computing, where you had bitmap fonts, very few fonts, low-resolution printers
    etc. (where you wouldn\u2019t even actually tell the roman from the italic, easily).
    Remember, those were the days where fonts came on floppy disk and using three
    different fonts on a page might overload your printer\u2019s memory. And the expression
    \"electronic documents\" probably didn\u2019t exist (neither did the PDF format).
    \r\n\r\nWe\u2019re 20 years into future now. Yes, some apps still maintain the
    faux italic for backward-compatibility reasons. But there is no need or reason
    to come up with NEW solutions that still follow this old-style way of thinking.
    \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-06-03 17:47:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...they should not or, at least, should not do so automatically.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    same is true of \"SmartyPants\", and \"Typographic Quotes\", which is a default
    of InDesign, isn't it?\r\n\r\n<em>Yes, some apps still maintain the faux italic
    for backward-compatibility reasons.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think that's the main
    reason. It's because application engineers think their application can fill in
    the gaps in a font family, and they believe it's a genuine service to the user
    to do so. For instance, InDesign offers users small caps of any font, even those
    with no true small caps.\r\n\r\n<em>no need or reason to come up with NEW solutions
    that still follow this old-style way of thinking.</em>\r\n\r\nThe need for Smarty-Pants:
    typographers hate seeing hash mark quotes and apostrophes, and if Smarty can fix
    that, they don't mind the hack, even if it screws up abbreviations like '07. \r\n\r\nBut
    as I said, your (and others') arguments  against *lying* Stylistic Alternatives
    have convinced me that it would be impractical to include them in my fonts. Thank-you!
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-03 19:24:53'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: this is really a bit of a sticky wicket, isn't it? everyone seems to be in
    agreement that OT features should not be used for character conversion, but even
    the most recently released fonts by Adobe substitute scedilla with scommaaccent
    in the 'locl' feature. if we were following this non-conversion rule strictly,
    scedilla would be replaced by scedilla.locl (a clone of scommaaccent), right?
    So, is there just a bit of wiggle room with this rule, or should it be followed
    absolutely?
  created: '2007-07-04 17:19:57'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Paul, \r\n\r\nthe Scedilla->Scommaaccent case is indeed special. The proper
    Unicode codepoint to be used with Romanian is that of Scommaaccent (U+0218). Unfortunately,
    some old Unicode implementations use U+015E (Scedilla) in the Romanian locale.
    This means that the Romanian text can be represented in two different ways, \"old\"
    (using Scedilla) and \"new\" (using Scommaaccent). The \"locl\" OpenType replacement
    helps migrate the electronic text from the old to the new encoding. In this very
    case, the font helps fix a particular isolated encoding problem. \r\n\r\nAlso,
    the Scedilla->Scommaaccent replacement in \"locl\" for Romanian has become a widely
    accepted practice now. Both Unicode and OpenType work on that very principle:
    if something becomes widely accepted practice, it can be codified. So if you manage
    to convince enough people to follow a particular method, you may be lucky with
    your stuff getting \"standardized\". \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-05 05:08:10'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "back to this topic...\r\nwould it be advisable to have some type of feature
    where for character composition (besides ccmp) so that the user would know that
    if this feature is enabled certain characters are converted easily to symbols?
    For example, many PC users are used to the automatic replacement of <strong>1/2</strong>
    to <strong>\xBD</strong> and of <strong>(C)</strong> to <strong>\xA9</strong>.
    Would it be so bad to have a symbol composition feature (symb, hypothetically)
    that could build on these standardized (by Microsoft) practices to make symbols
    easily accessible via simple key combinations instead of having to hunt through
    a glyph palette?"
  created: '2007-07-13 19:10:02'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Paul, \r\n\r\na conversion of (C) to \xA9 on the glyph level is rather bad
    because it breaks Unicode. Any OpenType features that break Unicode should be
    avoided unless there is a really strong argument to do it anyway. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-10 00:04:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>For example, many PC users are used to the automatic replacement of 1/2
    to \xBD and of (C) to \xA9.</em>\r\n\r\nBut these are character-level substitutions
    performed by the application. So what ends up in the text string when (C) is coverted
    to \xA9 is \xA9 not (C). If this substitution were performed at the glyph level,
    then the text string would remain (C), which is not the copyright symbol."
  created: '2007-08-10 00:45:56'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Right. This is a particularly important issue for the copyright symbol, because
    the c-in-parens has no legal relevance. It has to either be the copyright symbol
    or the word \"copyright.\"\r\n\r\nDisclaimer: At least, that's what I've heard
    from lawyers. I'm not a lawyer myself and of course you should consult an actual
    lawyer for impartial legal advice.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-08-10 22:58:26'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "...in addition to which, I often type (c) to mean (c), as in lists. When
    I want a copyright symbol, I know how to get it. Word used to substitute one for
    the other with its AutoCorrect settings, until I got fed up with it and switched
    it off. I wouldn't want that \u2018feature' built into the font.  Not that Word
    knows about OpenType features, but you get my drift...\r\n\r\n____________________________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2007-09-14 11:29:40'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "back to this, Miguel said:\r\n<em>Many of Adobe\u2019s early Pro fonts have
    similar kinds of substitutions (e.g. in Warnock Pro the ornaments are alternates
    of lowercase Latin letters), but this is not really a good practice*. These and
    other substitutions (like sub [a A] by ordfeminine;) were implemented in the font
    to make its usage convenient from the user\u2019s POV, but they\u2019re not good
    because they replace character(s) by other character(s).</em>\r\n\r\nwhere do
    these replacements actually occur? i'm curious. i'm still trying to understand
    the workings behind the scenes. for example, if you have a font that substitutes
    f f i (u0066 u0066 u0069) by ffi (uFB03), what problems will arise? what will
    happen if you name the substituted glyph f_f_i and still assign the unicode point
    (uFB03)?"
  created: '2008-10-03 11:26:45'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>where do these replacements actually occur? i\u2019m curious. i\u2019m
    still trying to understand the workings behind the scenes. for example, if you
    have a font that substitutes f f i (u0066 u0066 u0069) by ffi (uFB03), what problems
    will arise?</em>\r\n\r\nThere are no actual replacements in e.g. InDesign. The
    underlying characters will remain the same when you apply the features; only the
    displayed glyphs will change. The issues may occur latter when, let's say, you
    generate a PDF file, send it to someone, and that person tries to retrieve the
    text from the PDF (or perform a search). If the PDF has a ToUnicode table, the
    text might come out with U+FB03, instead the original U+0066 U+0066 U+0069. If
    there's no ToUnicode table in the PDF, the glyph name will be parsed. According
    to [[http://partners.adobe.com/public/developer/en/opentype/glyphlist.txt|this
    list]] the glyph name ffi will correspond to character U+FB03, and according to
    [[http://www.adobe.com/devnet/opentype/archives/glyph.html|these rules]] the glyph
    name f_f_i will be mapped to the characters f, f and i. [[http://www.adobe.com/devnet/opentype/archives/glyphnamelimits.html|This
    page]] explains where and why glyph names are used.\r\n\r\n> <em>what will happen
    if you name the substituted glyph f_f_i and still assign the unicode point (uFB03)?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    think it will depend on how the glyph was inserted, which app generated the PDF
    and which app reads it and accesses the PDF contents. Ideally, the glyph f_f_i
    should be unencoded, and a glyph duplicate of it \u2014 named uniFB03 (or ffi)
    \u2014 should be the one to carry the encoding. But what you describe is not at
    all bad. That's actually what we do in our fonts. The reasoning being that we
    favor the ligature aspect \u2014 therefore the glyph name f_f_i and not ffi \u2014,
    but at the same time we don't want people to get notdefs if the text happens to
    contain the character U+FB03 \u2014 therefore we assign the code point."
  created: '2008-10-03 12:40:04'
- author:
    name: Crissov
  body: "This thread is quite dated, but I\u2019d like to comment on it nevertheless,
    because two important aspects are missing from all answers that opposed Nick Shinn\u2019s
    idea (the second part of it that is).\r\n\r\n<strong>1.</strong> Not all text
    can be controlled by the same person or entity who chooses the font. \r\nThis
    applies most prominently to the Web where the reader can ultimately choose the
    font and a multitude of stakeholders can suggest one (or actually more than one).
    \r\n\r\nSite owners, their designers, editors and authors should enforce the correct
    character which will have the correct glyph as long as one of the typefaces used
    supports it, but browser vendors and users may use techniques to correct typographic
    nonos. This could be done by scripts, e.g. Greasemonkey, that replace <em>characters</em>,
    but why not let fonts replace <em>glyphs</em> instead?\r\n\r\n<strong>2.</strong>
    Not all of the suggestion are the same. \r\nThere are several legacy characters
    in Unicode that fulfill multiple functions with a unified glyph. I strongly believe
    it\u2019s fine for smart fonts to make these characters adapt their glyphs to
    the context when an appropriate one can be chosen without ambiguity. \r\nThis
    applies to U+0027 <code>'</code>, U+0022 <code>\"</code> and U+002D <code>-</code>
    most prominently, but maybe , U+0060 <code>`</code> and perhaps U+00B4 <code>\xB4</code>
    or U+002A <code>*</code> as well.\r\n<pre><code>@DIGIT = [zero one two three four
    five six seven eight nine]; \r\n# also .*num\r\nfeature <strong>salt</strong>
    {\r\n\r\nlookup <strong>prime</strong> {\r\n  # second or inch and minute or foot\r\n
    \ # context: following a digit without a space in between\r\n  # U+0027 ' quotesingle
    \u279E U+2032/02B9 \u02B9 prime / primemod / minute\r\n  # U+0022 \" quotedbl
    \u279E U+2033/02BA \u02BA doubleprime / doubleprimemod / second\r\n  sub @DIGIT
    [<strong>quotesingle quotedbl</strong>]' by [<strong>prime doubleprime</strong>];
    \r\n} <strong>prime</strong>;\r\n\r\nlookup <strong>apostrophe</strong> {\r\n
    \ # apostrophe, also Hawaiian okina etc.\r\n  # context: between letters\r\n  #
    U+0027 ' quotesingle \u279E U+2019/02BC \u2019 quoteright / apostrophemod\r\n
    \ sub @LETTER <strong>quotesingle</strong>' @LETTER by <strong>quoteright</strong>;
    \r\n  # An apostrophe may appear at the start or end of a word,\r\n  # but it
    then can not be distinguished from a single quote mark reliably,\r\n  # because
    looking for a matching one can only be done for very simple cases in OT.\r\n  #
    In English, both look the same at the right-hand side anyway\r\n  # and one could
    add lexical rules for words where initial apostrophe is common, e.g. \u2019n\u2019,
    \u2019tis.\r\n} <strong>apostrophe</strong>;\r\n\r\nlookup <strong>quotemark</strong>
    {\r\n  # default, also English\r\n  # context open: between a space or certain
    punctuation and a letter or certain punctuation.\r\n  # U+0027 ' quotesingle \u279E
    U+2018 \u2018 quoteleft\r\n  # U+0022 \" quotedbl \u279E U+201C \u201C quotedblleft\r\n
    \ # U+0060 ` grave \u279E U+2018 \u2018 quoteleft\r\n  sub @WORDBOUNDARY [<strong>quotesingle
    quotedbl grave</strong>]' [@LETTER @DIGIT @INITIALPUNCT] \r\n   by [<strong>quoteleft
    quotedblleft quoteleft</strong>];\r\n  # context close: between a letter or certain
    punctuation and a space or certain punctuation\r\n  # U+0027 ' quotesingle \u279E
    U+2019 \u2019 quoteright\r\n  # U+0022 \" quotedbl \u279E U+201D \u02BA quotedblright\r\n
    \ # U+00B4 \xB4 acute \u279E U+2019 \u2019 quoteright\r\n  sub [@LETTER @DIGIT
    @FINALPUNCT] [<strong>quotesingle quotedbl acute</strong>]' @WORDBOUNDARY \r\n
    \  by [<strong>quoteright quotedblright quoteright</strong>];\r\n  # to do: add
    localized variants\r\n} <strong>quotemark</strong>;\r\n\r\nlookup <strong>mathoperator</strong>
    {\r\n  # U+002A * \u279E U+00D7 \xD7 multiply\r\n  # U+002D - \u279E U+2212 \u2212
    minus\r\n  sub @DIGIT        [<strong>asterisk hyphen</strong>]' by [<strong>multiply
    minus</strong>];\r\n  sub @DIGIT @SPACE [<strong>asterisk hyphen</strong>]' by
    [<strong>multiply minus</strong>];\r\n  sub [<strong>asterisk hyphen</strong>]'
    \       @DIGIT by [<strong>multiply minus</strong>];\r\n  sub [<strong>asterisk
    hyphen</strong>]' @SPACE @DIGIT by [<strong>multiply minus</strong>];\r\n} <strong>mathoperator</strong>;\r\n\r\nlookup
    <strong>dash</strong> {\r\n  # U+002D - \u279E U+2013 \u2013 endash or U+2014
    \u2014 emdash\r\n  ignore sub hyphen hyphen' hyphen' hyphen';\r\n  sub <strong>hyphen'
    hyphen' hyphen'</strong> by <strong>emdash</strong>;\r\n  sub <strong>@SPACE'
    hyphen' hyphen' @SPACE'</strong> by <strong>emdash</strong>;\r\n  sub <strong>hyphen'
    hyphen'</strong> by <strong>endash</strong>;\r\n  sub @SPACE <strong>hyphen'</strong>
    @SPACE by <strong>endash</strong>;\r\n} <strong>dash</strong>;\r\n\r\n@SIPREFIX
    = [Y Z E P T G M K k H h D d m micro mu n p f a z y];# without deka\r\nlookup
    <strong>litre</strong> {\r\n  # l \u279E U+2113 \u2113 litre\r\n  # context: after
    a digit, perhaps separated by a space, \r\n  #   perhaps preceded by an SI prefix
    (1 or 2 letters), not followed by a letter. \r\n  # only lowercase, because \u2018L\u2019
    is already an unambiguous variant\r\n  ignore sub <strong>l</strong>' @LETTER;\r\n
    \ sub @DIGIT                  <strong>l</strong>' by <strong>litre</strong>;\r\n
    \ sub @DIGIT @SPACE           <strong>l</strong>' by <strong>litre</strong>;\r\n
    \ sub @DIGIT        @SIPREFIX <strong>l</strong>' by <strong>litre</strong>;\r\n
    \ sub @DIGIT @SPACE @SIPREFIX <strong>l</strong>' by <strong>litre</strong>;\r\n
    \ sub @DIGIT        d [a k]   <strong>l</strong>' by <strong>litre</strong>;\r\n
    \ sub @DIGIT @SPACE d [a k]   <strong>l</strong>' by <strong>litre</strong>;\r\n}
    <strong>litre</strong>;\r\n\r\n} <strong>salt</strong>;</code></pre>\r\n\r\nUnlike
    the asterisk, the glyph for the lowercase letter <code>x</code> must not be replaced
    by the one for times <code>\xD7</code>, because neither is the cross a normal
    glyph variant (like the script el) nor is the letter a generic/unified character.\r\nAt
    least the first of these reasons also applies to the suggested fist replacement
    U+003E <code>></code> \u279E U+261E  \u261E.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m not sure, <code>salt</code>
    is the best feature for this, though."
  created: '2014-04-28 14:36:18'
- author:
    name: filip blazek
    picture: 110363
  body: "Crissov, I think you should avoid text correction on the font level. What
    may work in English may not work in other languages. There are also many exceptions
    where the font substitutions fail: while 1939\u20131945 is an interval with en-dash,
    1939-1945 might be a product with a hyphen; if you substitute hyphen with en-dash,
    how would user correct it then? OpenType cannot solve such issues.\r\n\r\nIn my
    design studio, we've created an extensive and language sensitive list of find-change
    entries. We use it as a script for InDesign (based on the default FindChangeByList.jsx
    script) and we run it whenever we import a text in InDesign. It is 1000\xD7 smarter
    than OpenType features, it includes several very complex and contextual solutions.\r\n\r\nI
    think it is pretty easy to develop such find-replace tool for texts on websites
    as well. There is one similar plugin for WordPress for instance wp-typography
    (http://kingdesk.com/projects/wp-typography/), maybe there are now newer ones
    available."
  created: '2014-04-30 16:00:13'
- author:
    name: Crissov
  body: "<blockquote>What may work in English may not work in other languages.</blockquote>\r\nThat\u2019s
    what <code>languagesystem</code> is for, which, admittedly, is missing from my
    code above.\r\n<blockquote>if you substitute hyphen with en-dash, how would user
    correct it then?</blockquote>\r\nI would of course only substitute the legacy
    character U+002D \u2018-\u2019 Hyphen-Minus and never the specialised characters
    U+2010 \u2018\u2010\u2019 Hyphen, U+2212 \u2018\u2212\u2019 Minus or U+2012/2013/2014
    \u2018Figure\u2019/\u2018En\u2019/\u2018Em Dash\u2019 etc. Also, like I said,
    this is nothing that should be done on the professional production side. I don\u2019t
    claim that the lookups I posted above are perfect either, they are not even tested.\r\n\r\nFor
    what it\u2019s worth, I\u2019m using a user script and stylesheet in Wikipedia
    to improve foreign typography and a customized keyboard layout to generate \u201Ccorrect\u201D
    typography myself."
  created: '2014-05-02 15:54:45'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "As a computer programmer by profession, hearing of using \"x\" in place of
    the multiplication sign fills me with horror; it reminds me of using the lower-case
    L for the numeral 1.\r\n\r\nBut with that, as in the case of the characters for
    minutes and seconds, many people typing text will not know that the correct characters
    even <em>exist</em>.\r\n\r\nSo while I believe that sound practice in handling
    UNICODE is something that is genuinely needed, I also heartily agree that special
    characters are much too difficult to enter.\r\n\r\nHowever, there are two little
    problems...\r\n\r\nProblem 1: If the mechanism for entering special characters
    is part of the <em>application</em> instead of the <em>operating system</em>,
    then, because people may well be using more than one application for preparing
    documents, they will be less likely to learn how to use each such mechanism.\r\n\r\nProblem
    2: There are a <em>lot</em> of special characters in UNICODE. Some of them might
    be relevant in an application for typesetting mathematics. Others would be relevant
    in an application for doing fine typography of books or advertisements. Hence,
    if you leave special characters up to the operating system, you have to support
    all of them, which leads to unusable mechanisms like typing in four-digit hex
    numbers.\r\n\r\nThe Apple Macintosh computer offered a solution which, while certainly
    open to criticism, was, I'm sure, genuinely helpful to many people; it had a standard
    default set of extra characters reachable by a third shift on its keyboard. At
    least they would include some of the ones you wanted, and thus they would be better
    than nothing. The latest versions of Windows finally include something somewhat
    similar for people desiring the U.S. keyboard layout.\r\n\r\nThe solution that
    seems to make sense, in terms of the way I've framed this, is a standard way to
    type more characters than are normally presented on the keyboard, which, on its
    simplest levels, is subject to influence by the application.\r\n\r\nThat is, you
    have a third shift, it gives you special characters, but the layout may be changed
    by an application to favor the ones relevant to its purpose.\r\n\r\nAnd you can
    navigate through special character sets without changing to a different keyboard
    layout (associated with customizing your computer to being used in another country
    with a different language), and define a keyboard layout in a simple and standard
    manner which doesn't require modifying your operating system (although that may
    not be a fair description of, say, installing the .NET framework, which is essential
    for using a <em>lot</em> of things...) - well, a rant is perhaps not useful.\r\n\r\nIn
    any event, the issue is basically that the computer keyboard has not been designed
    as a device for accessing an enormous and shifting repertoire of characters.\r\n\r\nAs
    utilizing more than the basic ASCII set, modified by a few accented letters for
    one's home language, is perceived as being something done so seldom (except for
    the speakers of Chinese, Japanese, and Korean, who just have to suffer with cumbersome
    input methods), providing an extra key or two on the keyboard to support this,
    for example, is unlikely, and even significant operating system support is unlikely.\r\n\r\nExcept,
    of course, in Linux, where you can do exactly what you want...\r\n\r\nIn the old
    days, what people were used to is having access only to the 94 standard ASCII
    printable characters, and using a font with totally nonstandard glyph assignments
    to type special characters. Atrocious from the UNICODE viewpoint, but at least
    it <em>worked</em>. Can a proper solution be made at least as usable as that was?"
  created: '2014-07-01 04:52:55'
- author:
    name: Crissov
  body: "Quadibloc, Windows and OS X users may change their keyboard layout quite
    freely as well, but of course that\u2019s usually restricted to their box at home,
    see <a href=\"http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=22339\">MSKLC</a>
    and <a href=\"http://scripts.sil.org/ukelele\">Ukulele</a>. In theory, customization
    like that could work on Android as well. Apple finally will allow 3rd party keyboards
    in iOS 7, but at least the default key layout makes more characters accessible
    than the default Android one."
  created: '2014-07-06 12:47:09'
date: '2007-05-30 05:45:16'
node_type: forum
title: Opentype feature access to unusual characters

---
