---
author:
  name: T.
body: "Inspired by <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/31363?from=200&comments_per_page=50\">this
  tread</a>, I was wondering if someone could point me out some nice typefaces with
  an IJ-ligature.\r\n\r\nThanks in advance!\r\n\r\nT."
comments:
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: "Hi T,\r\nI do not know if my Kurversbrug is 'nice' but at least it has the
    'IJ' ligature.\r\nhttp://www.re-type.com/fonts/kurversbrugreg.html"
  created: '2007-05-30 11:25:15'
- author:
    name: T.
  body: (This tread is just out of curiousity, not with the intention to buy the font)
  created: '2007-05-30 11:33:36'
- author:
    name: pvanderlaan
    picture: 112305
  body: "The Cleartype fonts from Luc(as) -- Consolas and Calibri -- contain them.
    I think most of his typefaces do.\r\n\r\nI think this glyph is re-appreciated
    again among Dutch type designers now that they can be safely put into OpenType
    fonts."
  created: '2007-05-30 12:55:18'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Well, it needs to be more then just 'ij' placed together in one glyph for
    me to find it useful. With that I mean it has to have something extra like 'st'
    and such ligs have.
  created: '2007-05-30 16:18:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Maybe turn the two tittles into a macron, or a tilde.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 17:14:13'
- author:
    name: T.
  body: Yes I agree Quincunx. What do you mean with tittles Hrant?
  created: '2007-05-30 17:37:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Tittle: dot on the \"i\"/\"j\".\r\nFancy-pants word, I know - sorry.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ij_4404.gif]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 17:42:07'
- author:
    name: T.
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo_heijmans_6432.gif]'
  created: '2007-05-30 17:51:33'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "The usual handwritten/cursive form of 'ij' resembles a 'y' with dieresis,
    with the end stroke of the 'i' connecting to the 'j'. For the UC 'IJ', I'm not
    really sure, but I guess a similar approach would be possible.\r\n\r\nI must say
    that for upright romans, I would consider true ligation for 'ij' or 'IJ' as distracting
    as that for something like 'st' for use in immersive reading."
  created: '2007-05-30 17:51:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ties, is that something you just made or an existing logo?\r\n\r\nBrian,
    I think that if it's done right it can be much better than something\r\nlike a
    frilly \"st\", not least because it helps properly encode actual language.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 18:11:18'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Hrant: Well, I was a bit exaggerating, because I can already imagine the
    overdone 'ij' ligs drawing far too much attention to themselves. I think I can
    also picture it done well, though the way I'm imagining it, there need not be
    an actual connecting line between the ligated elements, and it would only work
    for certain designs--say, Fedra. Or it would be cool to have Martin Majoor design
    one for Scala.\r\n\r\nI'll wait until I get on my home computer to illustrate
    what I'm on about..."
  created: '2007-05-30 18:45:25'
- author:
    name: T.
  body: "Hrant: No, that is an existing logo of <a href=\"http://www.heijmans.nl\">Heijmans</a>,
    designed by <a href=\"http://www.designers-company.nl/werk_spec_details.php?specid=8&colid=108\"
    >TBWA/Designers Company</a>\r\n\r\nI know a  pretty cool one down the street,
    I'll try to make a picture of  it soon."
  created: '2007-05-30 18:55:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think that \"h\" is gimmicky, but the macron\r\nseems to stand quite nicely
    for \"foundation\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 19:09:04'
- author:
    name: T.
  body: Your tilde-ligature made me think of this logo. I think it is quite nice,
    the "ij" reflecting in the "h".
  created: '2007-05-30 19:13:28'
- author:
    name: T.
  body: <a href="http://nldp.edc.nl/nederlandsedesignprijzen/genomineerd/?cat=6">Nominated  for
    best huisstijl (?)</a>
  created: '2007-05-30 19:17:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I guess \"huisstijl\" means something like visual/corporate identity?\r\n\r\nI
    did notice the \"h\" being a flipped \"ij\", but what does that mean?\r\nThat
    the houses they build fall over easily? Or maybe it's to emphasize\r\nthe company's
    Dutch-ness, but isn't nationalism taboo in the Netherlands?\r\n\r\nBTW, that Koninklijk
    Instituut voor de Tropen logo is amazing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 19:26:22'
- author:
    name: T.
  body: "> I guess \u201Chuisstijl\u201D means something like visual/corporate identity?\r\n\r\nYes,
    couldn't think if it in English.\r\n\r\n> but what does it mean?\r\n\r\nDoes it
    have to mean anything? You interpret the macron as the foundation, I just see
    it as a line.\r\n\r\n[edit]This is why I think the \"h\" is just as gimmickly
    as the \"ij\". But still quite a nice logo."
  created: '2007-05-30 19:31:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK, your edit helps.\r\n\r\n> Does it have to mean anything?\r\n\r\nNot necessarily
    - although it's a plus, no?\r\nI guess it could just be pretty - but is it?\r\n\r\nThe
    macron being in red seems to have a \"special\" meaning, and\r\nthe \"foundation\"
    meaning is the one that came into my own mind.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: T.
    body: "> Not necessarily - although it\u2019s a plus, no?\r\n\r\nDepends I think.
      Depends on how litteral it becomes. So I guess it is a plus indeed when you
      can interpret it as a foundation.\r\n\r\n> I guess it could just be pretty -
      but is it?\r\n\r\nI think so too. I think it is pretty in a way.\r\n<a href=\"http://www.europeanballoon.be/Pictures/gonflables/standard_shape/Heijmans.jpg\">This</a>
      \ was their old logo. Since I study architecture, I happen to bump in the company's
      advertisements now and then. And I noticed the improvement. That is why it sticked
      in my thoughts. (One of the goals of logo's.)"
    created: '2007-05-30 20:07:18'
  created: '2007-05-30 19:49:48'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/springtij_6084.jpg]\r\nThe UC IJ can
    look like an \u201Cinterrupted U\u201D\u2014as this Belgian sign shows."
  created: '2007-05-30 21:42:35'
- author:
    name: Village
  body: "In \"standard\" fonts, ideally I make ij's \u2014 pronounced ee-yay for you
    non-Dutch & Flemish speakers \u2014 so that the dots of the i and j components
    are a standard dieresis. The ij is the modern variant of the \xFF, and if you
    were to track a word with an ij in it, the ij would not become separated: B .
    A . K . K . E . R . IJ\r\n\r\nMonospace fonts should have ij and IJ, as does OCR-B.\r\n\r\nI
    always create ij's in my types. Sometimes some tweaking of the component forms
    is necessary, sometimes it's not.\r\n\r\nHuisstijl means, quite literally, \"house
    style\", which is the Dutch analogue of corporate identity. Often, a huisstijl
    consists of a beeldmerk \u2014 picture mark = icon \u2014\_and a woordmerk \u2014
    word mark = logotype."
  created: '2007-05-30 22:32:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Cap:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DIJK_6217.gif]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-31 01:36:59'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Regarding the \"heijmans\" logo, I see it like this:\r\n\r\nThe \"h\" is
    interrupted in a stencil cut fashion. This is inconsistent witt the rest of the
    word, but since this form is reflcted in the \"ij\" with a hooked foot on the
    \"i\", I, as a non-Dutch reader, interpret it as a stencil cut \"y\" (since the
    \"h\"\" prepared me for reading through more stencil cuts), and thereby wind up
    pronouncing the word more correctly (hey-mans) than I would if I had attempted
    to through ordinary English phonics (h\xEBzh-mans) rather awkwardly making up
    sounds for letter combinations usually absent in my language. I don't know if
    this was intentional, enabling more correct pronunciation by foreigners, but that's
    how it works for me."
  created: '2007-05-31 01:57:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ah, the stencil effect has to do with construction!\r\n(I think design studios
    should hire me as a Post-Rationalization Consultant.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-31 02:14:30'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Speaking of stencils, the upcoming expanded release of !Crass Roots includes
    about twice the glyphs of the Open version, and uses a method very similar to
    the previous image.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ijlig_5981.png]"
  created: '2007-05-31 06:36:36'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "This is how I would do an 'ij' ligature in a roman text face if I were limited
    to making a 'true' ligature, i.e. one where the components are connected.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ij-lig_5813.gif]\r\n\r\nStill,
    my preferred 'ij' solution would simply be just 'i' and 'j' brought together in
    a single glyph with minor adjustments to allow them to harmonize. I'm not sure
    what readers unfamiliar with the 'ij' digraph will make of the above ligature.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I don't really see how one would make an uppercase 'IJ' ligature of the connecting
    variety in the same style. I think the components in 'IJ' really should be kept
    separate, either maintaining their original forms or perhaps modified to suggest
    an interrupted 'U' as in Florian's example above.\r\n\r\nMaking the 'ij' resemble
    a 'y' does benefit the foreigners, whether that is intended or not. In fact, the
    Dutch often 'internationalize' the spellings of some proper names by replacing
    'ij' with 'y', so that the footballing legend Johan Cruijff is better known as
    Cruyff abroad, and Feyenoord of Rotterdam were originally Feijenoord before they
    changed the spelling for the benefit of foreigners who trouble pronouncing the
    original spelling."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Quincunx
      picture: 111891
    body: "> This is how I would do an \u2018ij\u2019 ligature in a roman text face
      if I were limited to making a \u2018true\u2019 ligature, i.e. one where the
      components are connected.\r\n\r\nThat is a very nice 'ij' if you ask me. It's
      how it is written by hand in Dutch, anyway. If it will work well, I don't know.
      But it's quite close to how I would imagine a true (dutch) 'ij' ligature."
    created: '2007-06-02 03:18:50'
  created: '2007-05-31 06:58:50'
- author:
    name: T.
  body: "> The UC IJ can look like an \u201Cinterrupted U\u201D\u2014as this Belgian
    sign shows.\r\n\r\nYes! That is something I wanted to photgraph as well.  Nice.\r\n\r\n>
    Monospace fonts should have ij and IJ, as does OCR-B.\r\n\r\nAnd another font
    which has got it!"
  created: '2007-05-31 08:13:48'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "I think that in roman a connected ij-lig is unwanted. It would draw too much
    attention and interrupt the flow. But italic is a different story: I'd love to
    see all fonts with fancy connected i-j's. (Doesn't make OT having alts easy? So\u2026)"
  created: '2007-05-31 10:18:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sorry, I don't think it's any good at all, because it's\r\nextremely confusable
    with the y-diaeresis. The fact\r\nthat there's some historical link between the
    two is\r\nlargely moot - there's also a historical link between\r\nthe \"i\" and
    \"j\", but isn't it kind of a big plus that we\r\ncan distinguish between them?!
    \ :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-02 04:33:07'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: The link sounds current, not historical. Once we assimilate the Dutch into
    the U.N.A., the IJ will be no more. Mwa ha ha .
  created: '2007-06-02 04:54:36'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Surprised no one has mentioned that ij and IJ have Unicode code points...
    http://www.unicode.org/charts/PDF/U0100.pdf so no OT is required and that they
    are part of the WGL4 standard http://www.microsoft.com/typography/OTSPEC/WGL4C.HTM
    so many fonts, esp the bundled ones, contain them. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-02 05:13:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> ij and IJ have Unicode code points\u2026\r\n\r\nAnd so does y-diaeresis.
    As in a separate one. Case closed.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-02 05:29:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/deStijl_4610.png]\r\nIs this ligated
    ij OK for the normal italic?\r\nOr would it be better in the swash alts?"
  created: '2007-06-02 05:30:42'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Wanting to distinguish 'ij' and '\xFF' in print is the reason why I do not
    advocate a true ligature for 'ij'. But that's the internationalist perspective
    in me speaking. Yes, of course the Unicode Consortium distinguishes the two, because
    it is an international standard.\r\n\r\nFor Dutch use, I don't think there is
    reason to fear the confusion. In a lot (most?) of Dutch handwriting, 'ij' and
    '\xFF' would be virtually indistinguishable precisely because there is no semantic
    need for distinguishing between the two. 'Y' is not used in native Dutch words,
    so I'm guessing '\xFF' would be extremely rare to the point that the 'ij' or '\xFF'
    confusion would be a false dilemma when applied to Dutch--the '\xFF' is a false
    alternative in Dutch, and in Dutch minds perhaps even considered a variant form
    of 'ij'. It is nothing like the relationship between 'i' and 'j', each of which
    has its own independent uses distinct from the other in most modern languages
    using the Latin alphabet.\r\n\r\nThis of course does not apply when you want your
    text typeface to work for languages other than Dutch, in which case '\xFF' may
    very well be used.\r\n\r\nOn a somewhat related note, in setting Dutch a ligated
    'ij' distinct from 'i'+'j' would be a plus in that it helps distinguish between
    the digraph 'ij' and cases where the letters 'i' and 'j' are not part of a digraph,
    as in words like 'bijou' from the French. So a true 'ij' ligature, while not appropriate
    for most text setting, may be useful in things like dictionaries or textbooks
    for learners of the Dutch language."
  created: '2007-06-02 05:31:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm not sure how useful the concept of a \"true ligature\" is.\r\nIs mine
    a true ligature? If not, does that mean the \"i\" and\r\n\"j\" are not \"true\"
    letters, because they have more than one\r\npart? Also, as Legato demonstrates,
    ligation can be \"virtual\",\r\nvia the white.\r\n\r\n> I don\u2019t think there
    is reason to fear the confusion.\r\n\r\nNo too much, I agree; but there's even
    less reason to revere history.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-02 05:46:03'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Hrant, you're right; 'true ligature' is a problematic term. I just wanted
    to refer to forms where there are joins between (the black parts of) the components.
    Yours would be true ligatures in the sense that I was using the term--they are
    certainly distinct from 'i' and 'j' next to each other.\r\n\r\nI wanted to introduce
    the distinction because the term 'ligature' is ambiguous (although I probably
    caused more confusion in the process). Was T, in his original question, referring
    to fonts that simply have glyphs for the 'ij' digraph? Lots of fonts do, but most
    use forms indistinguishable from 'i' and 'j' next to each other. I surmised he
    wanted to know about fonts that do more than that.\r\n\r\nThe 'virtual' ligation
    you speak of is just another name for the harmonious fitting of the black and
    white letters, which good designs should be doing anyway between any pair of letters.\r\n\r\n>there\u2019s
    even less reason to revere history.\r\n\r\nHistory? I was basing my suggestion
    on current handwritten forms. I don't even know if the resemblance between 'ij'
    and '\xFF' has a historical basis, and I suspect they really don't--it's probably
    a chance convergence. I just wanted a form that makes the most sense to the modern
    Dutch speaker."
  created: '2007-06-02 07:00:11'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Perhaps 'contiguous ligature' or 'joined ligature' might be a better terms.
    Lengthy, but how often need it be so distinguished?\r\n\r\n<em> ij and IJ have
    Unicode code points\u2026\r\nAnd so does y-diaeresis. As in a separate one. Case
    closed</em>\r\n\r\nHa ha ha, right. Because Unicode is The Truth, not a cobbling
    of backwards compatibilities and porkbellies. I'm sorry Hrant, Unicode is going
    to have to be around a lot longer before it is the international Rosetta stone.\r\n\r\n<em>This
    of course does not apply when you want your text typeface to work for languages
    other than Dutch, in which case \u2018\xFF\u2019 may very well be used.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    think that language tags make that simple."
  created: '2007-06-02 16:43:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Jongseong: <em>Yes, of course the Unicode Consortium distinguishes the two,
    because it is an international standard.</em>\r\n\r\nActually, Unicode encoded
    the Dutch IJ/ij digraphs as distinct characters, separate from the I+J and i+j
    sequences, because they were pre-existing characters inherited from a Dutch telecom
    standard. For the most part, Unicode does not encode digraphs. But some are encoded
    for backwards, roundtrip compatibility, as in this case.\r\n\r\nFor the most part,
    Dutch users do not use the digraph characters -- although some, like Thomas Milo,
    certainly advocate its use -- they just type I+J and i+j. So far as I know, the
    IJ/ij digraph characters are not accessible via the standard Dutch keyboard."
  created: '2007-06-02 21:22:43'
- author:
    name: T.
  body: "> So far as I know, the IJ/ij digraph characters are not accessible via the
    standard Dutch keyboard.\r\n\r\nNo they aren't. Do Dutch keyboards exist? The
    normal way in Dutch to type an \"\xFF\" is just \"ij\". For me, as a dutchman,
    the uppercase is sometimes odd, not the lowercase. We do type the uppercase as
    an \"IJ\" (a I+J), but it sometimes just lookes silly. As in de the river \"IJ\"
    (Amsterdam)."
  created: '2007-06-02 23:32:21'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: Do dutch font users want a feature in their fonts to automatically ligate
    those, whenever they type 'i', 'j' or 'I','J'? Is 'I', 'j' wanted as well?
  created: '2007-06-03 07:17:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Do Dutch keyboards exist?</em>\r\n\r\nYes. There's a Dutch keyboard standard,
    although apparently relatively few people use it. It is very similar to the US
    qwerty keyboard layout in the normal and shift states, but has the euro symbol
    accessible using AltGr+E and some other symbols and punctuation not mapped in
    the US keyboard."
  created: '2007-06-03 07:25:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Choz: <em>Is \u2018I\u2019, \u2018j\u2019 wanted as well?</em>\r\n\r\nOfficially,
    no, because the digraph cases as a unit, so it is always either both letters uppercase
    or both letters lowercase.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-03 07:26:59'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I don't think automatic ligation is the best option because not every 'ij'
    combination in Dutch is the digraph (even if for 99% of the time it is). The 'i'
    and 'j' might come from different syllables, or it might be a loanword.\r\n\r\nMy
    take: to use special 'ij' and 'IJ' ligatures for Dutch, one should manually search
    and replace the 'ij' and 'IJ' combinations in the text, taking care to make sure
    to replace only when the digraph is wanted.\r\n\r\nCumbersome, I know. But unless
    one has a special reason for distinguishing the digraph and non-digraph combination
    of 'i' and 'j' (for specialist texts, dictionaries, language learning materials,
    etc.), I don't see a compelling reason to replace the lowercase digraphs with
    special glyphs. For the uppercase 'IJ', I can allow that for certain designs a
    special glyph for the digraph may be desirable."
  created: '2007-06-03 07:59:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks Brian, that's excellent advice.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-03 19:33:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I don\u2019t see a compelling reason\r\n\r\nReadability (via divergence).\r\nNot
    in a major way, but not much in type is anyway.\r\nWe mind the details.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-03 19:37:43'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Nick askes: \"Is this ligated ij OK for the normal italic\"\r\n\r\nI prefer
    the connecting line between i and j to be an upward move. To illustrate this:
    the common way to write ij in cursive (handwriting is cursive\u2026) is to basically
    draw a u and elongate the last downstroke. Am I making sense?"
  created: '2007-06-03 20:01:42'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: 'To elaborate on this: Gerrit Noordzij has written extensively on ''writing''
    as the basis for typedesign and one of the first exercises in his ''course'' is
    drawing ''waves'' (up in a slant, down in a semicircle that smoothly turns into
    the upslant etcetera). '
  created: '2007-06-03 20:05:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Readability (via divergence).</em>\r\n\r\nI hadn't noticed that Dutch
    people had a problem reading. They have one, very regular digraph in their orthography.
    English has many, very irregular digraphs, and a couple of trigraphs. Digraphs
    are a feature of many alphabetic writing systems. Rather than assuming that visual
    divergence of digraphs assists readability -- really a kind of spelling reform,
    in which you invent new letters or diacritics based on merging or ligating digraphs
    --, it seems to me that we should try to understand just what it says about the
    reading process, and the flexibility of that process, that so many cultures and
    linguistic groups have adopted digraphs, trigraphs and even tetragraphs as part
    of their reading systems. The idea that sequences of letters can function equivalently
    to single letters in the representation of sounds is remarkable. It indicates
    that unitisation happens quite comfortably in the mind, relative to language and
    memory, independent of unitisation of written marks. Since unitisation of written
    marks is so easily achieved -- either through the invention/importation of new
    letters, ligation or use of diacritic marks -- it is notable that so many different
    orthographies should have instead adopted the use of sequences of existing letters
    to represent individual sounds."
  created: '2007-06-03 20:07:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Gerrit Noordzij's views have merit in proportion to their distance from type.\r\n\r\n>
    I hadn\u2019t noticed that Dutch people had a problem reading.\r\n\r\nPeople didn't
    think they had a problem walking before somebody\r\nthought of shoes either. And
    I'm sure some people preferred to\r\nbelieve that shoes were a damnfangled idea.\r\n\r\nJohn,
    let's not get into this again - it's hopeless.\r\nFor whoever might need a fix,
    just use Google to search Typophile.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-03 20:10:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bert: <em>To illustrate this: the common way to write ij in cursive (handwriting
    is cursive\u2026) is to basically draw a u and elongate the last downstroke.</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    the style of lettering Nick is showing suggests a different construction, as the
    entry strokes on even the unconnected i and j indicate. As it happens, in most
    of the actual writing from which this style of type derives, it is unusual for
    the i or j to connect to a preceding letter in this way; but other letters may
    connect in this way, e.g. the sequence <em>an</em>.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/anij_4631.gif]\r\n\r\nSo
    the kind of construction Nick shows is a viable feature of the style, and provides
    a possible stronger visual distinction between <em>ij</em> and <em>\xFF,</em>
    if one were seeking such a distinction. Of course, this connection is not importable
    to many other lettering styles."
  created: '2007-06-03 20:17:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I liked Nick's (particular) solution at first, but then I started worrying
    about color. It would be interesting to see how it would look with the thick weight
    in the connection, and the stems light! But that might just look really crappy
    too.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-03 20:22:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>People didn\u2019t think they had a problem walking before somebody\r\nthought
    of shoes either. And I\u2019m sure some people preferred to\r\nbelieve that shoes
    were a damnfangled idea.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, the Masai don't need chiropractors
    :)\r\n\r\n<em>John, let\u2019s not get into this again - it\u2019s hopeless.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    don't want to get into the old discussion, but I am making a new point about the
    use of digraphs, which I think should be considered. I think they represent a
    very interesting and possibly enlightening aspect of reading, with implications
    for our understanding of notan, role architecture, the relationship of written
    to spoken language on the cognitive side of reading. They are a use of letters
    that, in purist terms, break the alphabetic model; and yet they are a feature
    of probably most of the world's alphabetic reading systems. Isn't that fascinating?
    Diverging them visually, i.e. making them look different because they represent
    different sounds, re-establishes the purity of the one-sign-one-sound model --
    very controlling, very modernist :) --, but it seems to me that we should make
    an effort to understand just how they work, and in the process understand what
    kind of stress loads our impurely engineered reading systems can carry."
  created: '2007-06-03 20:25:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Speaking of Masai, it is now possible to buy <a href=\"http://www.swissmasai.co.uk/Default.aspx?lang=en-GB\">shoes</a>
    that are designed to make you move as if you were walking barefoot.\r\n\r\nThere's
    probably a type metaphor in there somewhere. Maybe <a href=\"http://www.winsoft.eu/products_solutions/WinSoft-Tasmeem.php\">this</a>."
  created: '2007-06-03 20:36:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I made arguments similar to yours (although I admit not very well) at my
    talk in Thessaloniki in 2004, and on Typophile I have often presented the view
    that ligatures can be a lot more than merely pretty; but being a practical person,
    to spend more time on something like this I need to feel comfortable that the
    people I'm discussing it with harbor a nominal willingness to see the <cite>Latin</cite>
    script evolve, not because it's not really mine and I wouldn't mine, but because
    it's the most used script on the planet; and your closing with \"it is notable
    that so many different orthographies should have instead adopted the use of sequences
    of existing letters to represent individual sounds\" in that previous post discourages
    me, not least in its focus on spoken language, which is a chimera.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-03 20:41:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The sample I showed was probably a bit too large.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/March_6714.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    typeface is a revival based on several closely related types in one book (1869).\r\nWhat
    prompted me to the ij ligature was the way that one of the fonts (above, \"March\")
    creates the effect of a partially cursive connected script. I decided to follow
    the lower model (\"cardui\"), disconnected, in my revival--although I have pondered
    doing a connected \"Swash\" version, along the lines of Danubia Script. \r\n\r\nIt's
    probably better to try out the options at text size, and consider that reading
    situation, rather than hypothesize by looking at the glyph in question, because
    the effect is quite subtle in text, given that the pot-hook serifs in this genre
    of typeface tend towards forming virtual ligatures at small size -- whether physically
    on the page, as the result of press gain, or in the reader's eye, as the result
    of visual bleed. Certainly, if this kind of thing is perceived in the parafovea,
    with its lack of sharpness, that would be expected. So it's probably a question
    of finding the sweet spot where the ij digraph is only as obvious as it needs
    to be for the typographic task at hand."
  created: '2007-06-04 18:55:02'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Hrant: <cite>People didn\u2019t think they had a problem walking before somebody\r\nthought
    of shoes either. And I\u2019m sure some people preferred to\r\nbelieve that shoes
    were a damnfangled idea. </cite>\r\n\r\nA few years ago I read somewhere that
    the idea of making different shoes for the left and the right foot is a pretty
    recent one. Our ancestors have trodden earth for ages on identical shoes that
    took some time to set to the foot (or didn't they bother about separating left
    from right?).\r\n\r\nAt the present there is no real problem re the ij-ligature
    for dutchreading people \u2014 but there may be one in a few years if typedesigners
    introduce 'personal' designs for ij. Let's stick to what is accepted (the one
    in Johns illustration)\u2026\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-04 19:26:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>your closing with \u201Cit is notable that so many different orthographies
    should have instead adopted the use of sequences of existing letters to represent
    individual sounds\u201D in that previous post discourages me, not least in its
    focus on spoken language, which is a chimera.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat's discouraging
    about it? It is a phenomenon of alphabetic reading systems, and therefore something
    we should try to understand. It is also a phenomenon of alphabets that they relate
    signs to sounds, so I don't think I'm 'focusing on spoken language' by talking
    about alphabetic letters in the way in which they represent sounds. It's just
    a convenient way of describing what a digraph does. But let me rephrase it, to
    bury the reference to spoken language, and say that a digraph is two letters forming
    a single grapheme. Okay, put that way it's still a fascinating thing, because
    it demonstrates that we read combinations of letters -- within the larger combinations
    that make up words -- in ways that differ from how we read the individual letters.\r\n\r\nThe
    problem of ligating or merging digraphs is an orthographic one: digraphs are often
    irregular. Even something as regular as the Dutch ij has exceptions (although
    they are rare). English digraphs are very irregular. Consider the letter sequence
    <em>th.</em> This represents three different things: <em>th</em>is, <em>th</em>ought,
    ho<em>th</em>ouse. If one were to distinguish these three things visually at the
    glyph level, one would need a special dictionary driving the display to determine
    which form to use in which instances. The only way that it would be viable would
    be to make the distinction at the character level, i.e. spelling reform. In the
    case of <em>th</em> we could bring back \xF0 and \xFE, and for <em>sh</em> we
    could adopt Pitman's \u0283. There are other digraphs and trigraphs for which
    we would need to invent new forms. But where do we draw the line on what should
    be a distinct new letter instead of a sequence of letters? What about consonant
    conjuncts like <em>mpt</em> as in 'e<em>mpt</em>y'?\r\n\r\nOf course, all these
    questions are questions about how letters map to sounds, and there is no other
    way to talk meaningfully about them. You accuse me of focusing on the 'chimera'
    of spoken language, but the whole idea of ligating digraphs is inescapably connected
    to the representation of sound, otherwise you are just making a script typeface
    with joining letters, not using the joins in a meaningful way. The difference
    between the <em>th</em> in e<em>th</em>er and in ho<em>th</em>ouse, for instance,
    is that one is a digraph and the other is not, and this is determined by their
    pronunciation. If we pronounced them the same way, there would be no question
    of a distinction in text. Your chimera is inescapable, because an alphabet is
    a reading system, a writing system, and a phonetic notation system all-in-one.
    It's a delightfully messy way to communicate.\r\n\r\n<em>I need to feel comfortable
    that the people I\u2019m discussing it with harbor a nominal willingness to see
    the Latin script evolve</em>\r\n\r\nThe Latin script has evolved and will continue
    to evolve, so even to talk of willingness in that regard seems silly. It might
    not evolve the way you would like it to evolve, but it will evolve. What is unlikely
    to evolve is the spelling of English, for example, which is firmly rooted, if
    you'l excuse the pun, in etymological principles. In the context of new orthographies,
    e.g. for African languages, we've seen a lot of evolution, and much of it concerned
    with expanding the number of letters to enable a one-to-one mapping of sign to
    sound. Consonant digraphs seem to be very uncommon in these new orthographies,
    although doubling of vowels to indicate length is common.\r\n\r\nNow, one of the
    phenomena of the evolution of the Latin script in the spelling of English is,
    ironically, that we abandoned the two letters \xF0 and \xFE in favour of the single
    digraph of <em>th.</em> If we apply an evolutionary model to this, we have to
    accept that the digraph is 'fit', i.e. it has passed natural selection, which
    in this case means that we read it. This doesn't necessarily imply that the \xF0
    and \xFE were unfit -- Icelanders clearly don't think so --, and the reasons they
    fell out of use may not be related to readability at all. But it does indicate
    that there is <em>sufficient</em> readability in the digraph.\r\n\r\nYou will
    doubtless point out that sufficiency leaves room for improvement, and I'm not
    going to disagree with you. But in an important sense sufficiency is what readability
    is all about -- it is the baseline of what is readable --, and understanding what
    makes for sufficiency is the first stage of understanding how readability might
    be improved. This is why phenomena like the reading of digraphs is important,
    because they help us to think about what we read and how we read it. Ironically,
    they also push the 'chimera' of spoken language further away from what is written
    and read, precisely because their relationship to sound is irregular and impure,
    and the idea of ligating them to signal their reading moves them closer to phonetic
    notation. So I could say that you are the one who is focused on spoken language.
    :)"
  created: '2007-06-04 20:04:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Let\u2019s stick to what is accepted\r\n\r\n<cite>You</cite> stick to what
    is accepted.\r\n\r\n> the whole idea of ligating digraphs is inescapably\r\n>
    connected to the representation of sound\r\n\r\nI'm not seeing that at all.\r\nBut
    anyway the sound angle is not my main reservation here.\r\n\r\n> sufficiency is
    what readability is all about\r\n\r\nNo, that's legibility.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-05 02:42:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>I\u2019m not seeing that at all.</em>\r\n\r\nLet's see if I can
    figure out how you are seeing it then. Earlier in this thread you stated that
    you 'readability (via divergence)' was a compelling reason for representing the
    Dutch ij digraph as something other than the two individual lettersi, i.e. representing
    it as something other than a digraph. Can you explain what you meant by that?\r\n\r\n<em>No,
    that\u2019s legibility.</em>\r\n\r\nI think one of the things you would insist
    on though is that mere legibility is not sufficient to readability. Indeed, if
    the terms are to be differentiated, there is an assumed qualitative difference.
    When I said 'sufficient' I meant sufficient to readability."
  created: '2007-06-05 04:22:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Maybe we're using \"digraph\" differently. And/or maybe that doesn't even
    matter. My point was that representing the \"i\"-\"j\" sequence differently than
    an \"i\" followed by a \"j\", but nonetheless deliberative-decipherable as those
    two letters, would help reading. This is the basis, not sound (and not prettiness).
    You can use the fact that there's a pronunciation difference to convince people
    it's a good idea, but that's not really related to why it's a good idea. The reason
    it's a good idea flies over the head of laymen, which is typical of useful evolutions.\r\n\r\n>
    When I said \u2018sufficient\u2019 I meant sufficient to readability.\r\n\r\nBut
    what you're describing does not fit my definition of readability.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-05 04:49:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW here's something (perhaps too playful) reminiscent of an idea by Smeijers:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ij_6512.gif]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-05 06:19:23'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "Wow... I mean, I'm so... wow!! This is one of the best threads I have been
    reading so far here - and thank you so much for the many type samples!!\r\n\r\nI
    do love ligatures very much.... it was just inspiring reading all this! Just had
    to say it!"
  created: '2007-06-05 07:47:52'
- author:
    name: T.
  body: "Perhaps I understand you guys wrong, but <em>reading</em> isn't a problem
    in Dutch. Context of surrounding letter make an i+j an \"ij\". I can't understand
    why a special glyph that represents this digraph would improve the reading.\r\n\r\nJust
    as in the fi-ligature, it sometimes is a matter of colliding letters. As in the
    uppercase-variant of \"IJ\".\r\n\r\nT."
  created: '2007-06-05 08:50:13'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "For readability such a glyph is not needed, it would be purely for style,
    I guess.\r\n\u2018i\u2019 and \u2018j\u2019 usually don\u2019t collide either,
    maybe only in the caps variant."
  created: '2007-06-05 14:28:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yeah, we only really need Morse Code - the Latin alphabet is just for style.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-05 14:31:16'
- author:
    name: T.
  body: "> \u2018i\u2019 and \u2018j\u2019 usually don\u2019t collide either, maybe
    only in the caps variant.\r\n\r\nWhat I mean is, in a fi-lettercombination, colliding
    is solved with an fi-ligature. With i+j this isn't necessary. (So I agree with
    you)\r\n\r\n> Yeah, we only really need Morse Code - the Latin alphabet is just
    for style.\r\n\r\n:S\r\n\r\nand:\r\n\r\n> Maybe we\u2019re using \u201Cdigraph\u201D
    differently. And/or maybe that doesn\u2019t even matter. My point was that representing
    the \u201Ci\u201D-\u201Cj\u201D sequence differently than an \u201Ci\u201D followed
    by a \u201Cj\u201D, but nonetheless deliberative-decipherable as those two letters,
    would help reading.\r\n\r\nSo I said, I don't think it will improve the reading,
    it will distract.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-05 15:29:56'
- author:
    name: pvanderlaan
    picture: 112305
  body: "> So I said, I don\u2019t think it will improve the reading, it will distract.\r\n\r\nExactly.
    It is what is it: i+j is just ij. There's absolutely no need to make a visual
    distinction between the words \u2018hijack\u2019 and \u2018hijskraan\u2019.\r\n\r\nThe
    only compelling reason to give it its own unicode value is for sorting purposes."
  created: '2007-06-05 16:49:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "May Modernism die a swift and painful death, leaving mankind to flourish
    soberly.\r\n\r\nAnd yet more ideas:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IJij_3742.gif]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-05 20:09:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>My point was that representing the \u201Ci\u201D-\u201Cj\u201D
    sequence differently than an \u201Ci\u201D followed by a \u201Cj\u201D, but nonetheless
    deliberative-decipherable as those two letters, would help reading.</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    I understood what you were saying. I was not asking you to repeat it; I was asking
    you to explain <em>how.</em>\r\n\r\nYou said that it would help reading 'via divergence'.
    Divergence from what? Divergence from i+j? On what basis do you determine a need
    for divergence? When does ij need to be distinguished from ij?"
  created: '2007-06-06 05:45:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Divergence from i+j?\r\n\r\nPrimitively, yes.\r\nBut more deeply, from
    the (frequency-weighted) repertoire of bouma components.\r\n\r\n> When does ij
    need to be distinguished from ij?\r\n\r\nFrankly that seems to be secondary. First
    we need to establish the need, which we're already having too much trouble with.
    This sort of impediment is significant to me personally, because wanting to be
    practical I'm interested in improvements on the ground, not convincing one or
    two people in some hermetic discussion. If I don't see a good enough chance of
    my argumentative efforts leading to a better typographic \"quality of life\" (even
    if it's a tiny improvement) I just won't bother. This is why I won't touch spelling
    reform for example: no matter how much it would help, the near-impossibility of
    getting anywhere with it is a total turn-off.\r\n\r\nBut I know what you're trying
    to lead to: that the only \"logical\" basis for such a distinguishment is aural.
    I don't agree, because immersive reading is not about deciphering sounds, it's
    about deciphering boumas; so it's clear that the basis of the distinguishment
    must be visual, not aural. This is not to say that it's easy or even possible
    to implement a workable visual-based system of distinguishment; but just because
    an aural system seems more intuitive and is easier to pull off doesn't make an
    aural system worth carrying out - because it just can't lead anywhere useful.
    Better would be to not bother.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-06 06:03:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Grrr. F*cking buggy Typophile! I just wrote a lengthy response, only to have
    Typophile time out during the posting and lose the text.\r\n\r\nI can't be bothered
    to write it all again now, but here's the summary:\r\n\r\nHrant: <em>so it\u2019s
    clear that the basis of the distinguishment must be visual, not aural.</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    can't make a visual distinction based on a visual premise: that's circular. To
    say 'We will visually distinguish ligated ij from unligated ij' is tautological.
    In order to be meaningful, the visual distinction must represent something non-visual.
    The basis of the distinction must be <em>linguistic.</em>\r\n\r\n[There followed
    a lengthy explanation of why linguistic does not imply 'aural', and why the term
    phoneme denotes a transcendent element of language that straddles the boundaries
    of spoken/heard and written/read language. I compared phonemes to Hrant's own
    'bouma components' as things that exist in the mind, not in sound or on paper.
    I drew attention to the fact that reading involves the same language processing
    areas of the brain as speaking and listening, and asserted the parallel of textual
    language and vocal language as independent expressions of mental language. Finally,
    I considered how visual distinctions in alphabetic textual language can be cross-referenced
    to parallels in vocal language, since the alphabetic system is premised on such
    parallels, <em>or</em> may reference directly distinctions in mental language
    (as non-alphabetic writing systems remind us).]"
  created: '2007-06-06 20:28:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, I feel your pain. Actually, I've felt your pain often,\r\nand don't
    want to right now, so I'll keep mine even shorter.  :-)\r\n\r\n> The basis of
    the distinction must be linguistic.\r\n\r\nIf you mean \"reading-based\", sure.
    But most of your\r\nargumentation, especially in the \"ij\" case, focuses\r\nquite
    clearly on aural language, for example trying\r\nto figure out when an \"ij\"
    is two sounds versus one\r\nsound. My point is, that doesn't matter, and when\r\nyou
    look there you're not looking in the right place.\r\n\r\nThe \"problem\" is we
    don't [fully] understand reading, and this scares some people into looking for
    a solution elsehwere, anywhere - as if forcing a solution is better than simply
    marking a modest, nebulous improvement. But this hermetic, formalistic \"solution-hunting\"
    is, of course, entitely too Modernist to be actually useful to humans.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-06 21:09:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Oh, and here's another attempt:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ij2_3588.gif]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-06 21:11:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant, my earlier messages made reference to sound, but this is an example
    of making a distinction based on a parallel between textual language and vocal
    language. We do this sort of thing all the time, because it is in the nature of
    alphabetic systems. But as I concluded in my long lost message, this isn't a necessary
    approach, and the parallel should be considered coincidental, not causative; i.e.
    a distinction in textual language does not necessarily exist because of a distinction
    in vocal language, but because of a distinction in mental language.\r\n\r\n<em>If
    you mean \u201Creading-based\u201D, sure.</em>\r\n\r\nI mean linguistic: having
    to do with language, processed by the parts of the brain that deal with language,
    which don't make a distinction between vocal language and textual language. The
    parts of the brain that interact with the medium of language vary -- the parts
    that process hearing when we are listening, the parts that process sight when
    we are reading --, but the parts that process the actual linguistic content, e.g.
    Wernicke's area, do not vary according to the medium. To the brain, language is
    language, whether it is vocal language or textual language. The term 'phoneme'
    etymologically references sound, but linguists use the term to refer to a mental
    abstraction, not to sound itself. The point of a phoneme is that it is recognised
    as constituent of language, and that recognition happens in the mind. The terms
    phoneme and grapheme seem to me largely exchangeable*, and I'm not sure that there
    is any significant difference to the brain between elements of vocal language
    and elements of textual language, other than the paths they take to reach the
    language processing areas. Indeed, one can imagine those areas as completely unconscious
    of whether they are dealing with language as a result of listening or language
    as a result of reading: by the time they get the message, it is so far removed
    from what either the ear or the eye is doing as to make the distinction between
    vocal and textual language irrelevant.\r\n\r\nWhen we talk about making distinctions
    between ij and ij, the reason for the distinction must be sought in language,
    i.e. between phonemes, and the question of whether it is textual language or vocal
    language seems to me avoidable, because what is being distinguished is essentially
    mental, and only accidentally visual or aural.** The actual visual form of the
    distinction is something to be considered in terms of perceptual processing, but
    the reason for making the distinction is linguistic. [Now, in many ways this whole
    thread is a really bad example, because in Dutch the ij is incredibly regular,
    and the circumstances in which a distinction would need to be made are incredibly
    rare; so rare, in fact, that it would make more practical sense to ligate the
    exceptions than to ligate the regular digraph vowel. But the principles of the
    discussion could be applied to a more complex and irregular example, such as the
    English th, th and th distinction.]\r\n\r\n\r\n* The basic movements in sign language
    used to be referred to as cheremes, but this term was dropped when it was determined
    that there was no difference in the mental abstractions between vocal language
    and sign language: now they are called phonemes. I suspect a fuller analysis of
    written language -- bearing in mind that until recently most linguists have simply
    ignored textual language, treating it only as a notation system for vocal language
    -- may likewise remove the distinction between grapheme and phoneme.\r\n\r\n**
    Unless, like some linguists, one rejects the whole notion of the phoneme as an
    essentially textual analysis of language, i.e. a product of literacy, whose primary
    purpose is categorisation of phonetics in a way that makes it easy to develop
    phonetically based writing systems. How's that for ironic?"
  created: '2007-06-07 06:56:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually in type design we're restricted to talking about perception, not
    cognition, at least not the sort of high-level cognition you seem to be referring
    to. By the time what you're talking about starts happening, the glyphs are long
    gone; ligation or not doesn't matter. Where it matters is in the more primitive
    bouma decipherment phase (and least that's what I've concluded). And this is why
    the distinction between an \"ij\" being one \"sound\" or two is misleading; we
    need to be looking at something less obvious, less literal, non-deterministic.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-07 15:03:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant, did you read what I wrote? I'm not talking about <em>sound.</em> The
    distinction of 'ij' being one sound or two is as accidental as 'ij' being one
    letterform or two.\r\n\r\nIf either the distinction in sound or the distinction
    in form is to be meaningful then they must ultimately relate to something other
    than sound or form. The crucial distinction is phonemic.\r\n\r\nSince the Dutch
    phoneme represented by ij is so regular, it is a really bad example. It is made
    worse by the rarity of the sequence i+j in other orthographies (I can't think
    of any English words in which it occurs). So let's look at the English th.\r\n\r\nLet's
    say you determined that it would be a good idea 'for readability (via divergence)'
    to make a visual distinction between th and th (and perhaps also th). On what
    basis would you determine where to make the distinction: where to use one visual
    form and where to use the other visual form(s)? I challenge you to come up with
    any sensible basis other than a phonemic one (which is not to say a vocal/aural
    basis). [By the way, I can think of one other basis, but I'm not going to tell
    you what it is :).]\r\n\r\n_____\r\n\r\nIt might be helpful to think of things
    like this:\r\n\r\n                   vocal language\r\n                 /\r\nmental
    language\r\n                 \\\r\n                   textual language\r\n\r\ni.e.
    of vocal and textual language as independent expressions of mental language. What
    happens in vocal and textual language might be parallel, or might be divergent.
    Alphabetic reading systems tend to have a lot of parallels between vocal and textual
    language, but depending on spelling conventions they may also have a lot of divergences
    (English, for example, has a lot of divergences, because spelling maintains roots
    in preference to accuracy in representing pronunciation). [Ideographic reading
    systems are mainly divergent, and only occasionally produce parallels between
    vocal and textual language.]\r\n\r\nIn the case of English th, th and th we have
    a divergence between vocal language (which distinguishes these phonemes phonetically)
    and textual language (which does not distinguish them visually). The point I have
    made in the past couple of posts is that it is not necessary to reference vocal
    language in order to make a case for distinguishing the phonemes visually, because
    one can reference the phonemes directly. That is, one can appeal to the distinction
    in mental language, independently of the distinction in vocal language. The point
    I made in my earlier posts in this thread was that textual language can and does
    use identical visual forms for different phonemes -- especially when spelling
    is etymologically based -- and remarkably we read these accurately."
  created: '2007-06-08 04:38:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think you and I are smoking very different kinds of mar<strong>ij</strong>uana.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-08 04:48:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Thread h<strong>ij</strong>acked by potheads.
  created: '2007-06-08 05:48:12'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: or was that <strong>high</strong>jacked?
  created: '2007-06-08 06:26:41'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "H<em>\xFF</em>acked."
  created: '2007-06-08 07:25:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "If not a hijack, consider the Catalan character ldot.\r\nIts purpose is to
    distinguish double-l where both l's are sounded, from the \"dipthong\".\r\n(Interestingly,
    the double-l sound is a feature of Welsh, a language related to Catalan.\r\n\r\nAFAIK,
    the distinction is often indicated by an underscore, as many fonts don't have
    the appropriate character. But why not set \"periodcentered\", as that is in most
    fonts?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/elDot_3555.jpg]\r\n\r\nBTW,
    which do you prefer, the dot vertically centred on the full character height,
    or on the x-height? "
  created: '2007-06-08 21:13:32'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I think the <em>punt volant</em> of the ldot should be at the same level
    as the upper dot of the colon, depending on what the font has, but of course that
    wouldn't always work.\r\n\r\nBut back on point, even if they were Dutch words,
    neither in hijack nor in marijuana would the ij be typed as a digraph, since in
    both cases the letter pair spans two syllables. There could be a case for a \"ju\"
    digraph, since it is often pronounced as \"w\" rather than \"hu\"."
  created: '2007-06-08 21:23:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> a language related to Catalan.\r\n\r\nWho told you that?\r\n\r\n> But why
    not set \u201Cperiodcentered\u201D\r\n\r\nI thought that was the \"official\"
    way anyway.\r\nDoes Unicode have a seperate Catalan dot slot?\r\n\r\nBTW in this
    case (and probably generally) I myself prefer the lower dot.\r\n\r\n> if they
    were Dutch words, neither in hijack nor\r\n> in marijuana would the ij be typed
    as a digraph\r\n\r\nOK, but typing is even less relevant than language here...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-08 21:28:24'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: No, Ldot and ldot are at Unicode points 013F and 0140, respectively, but  periodcentered
    00B7 is the glyph for the Catalan dot alone.
  created: '2007-06-08 22:02:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So there's two ways to encode text with a Catalan dot... Is that good? I
    guess it can be, like by allowing different height dots for UC and lc, but still
    having a separate character that's only the dot (for whatever reason, like education).
    Hey, I guess I shouldn't be the one to complain about complexity...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-08 22:24:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>at the same level as the upper dot of the colon</em>\r\n\r\nIMO it works
    better at the mid-x-height, the height of a hyphen, which is a similar idea.\r\n\r\n<em>Who
    told you that?</em>\r\n\r\nNobody. I was getting it confused with Breton.\r\n\r\n<em>periodcentered
    00B7 is the glyph for the Catalan dot alone.</em>\r\n\r\nI didn't realize the
    periodcentered was for that.\r\nAs a typographer, I've often used it in all-cap
    settings, and as a \"bullet lite\".\r\nIn my fonts, I generally align it vertically
    centred with small caps, which also works as a light bullet, and, as it happens,
    also aligns with the dot in ldot that Hrant and I prefer.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/reb_3568.jpg]"
  created: '2007-06-08 22:45:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Continuing the hijack, I found this:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.tug.org/TUGboat/Articles/tb16-3/tb48vali.pdf\r\n\r\nOriginally
    in 1906 the Catalan digraph was proposed as \"a raised dot between two l's\".\r\nSince
    then, learned minds have been trying to pin down how much raised, and how far
    apart the component l's.\r\n\r\nBut is that really necessary? Why not leave it
    to typographers and type designers? Look at the Euro symbol mess, when orthographers
    went too far.\r\n\r\nIMO, the proposal in the Catalan pdf document for a cap serifed
    L-dot is poor typographically, as the serif and dot collide.\r\n\r\nBTW, it appears
    that the use of an underscore is an artefact that occurs when periodcentered is
    substituted in fonts and there is a mixup of coding."
  created: '2007-06-09 00:00:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Okay, let's dope this hijack, because I don't want Hrant to get off the hook
    of the j and avoid having to account for <em>why</em> he thinks ligating the ij
    might be good for 'readability (via divergence)' if not to distinguish phonemes.\r\n\r\nSo
    forgetting Dutch for the time being, let's look at marijuana and hijack in English
    (the former is an imported Mexican Spanish word, and the latter is of uncertain
    origin, but let's consider them fully naturalised). Hrant, do you think it might
    be good for 'readability (via divergence)' to distinguish the ij in marijuana
    from the ij in hijack? If so, please explain on what basis."
  created: '2007-06-09 00:14:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Seeing this larger rendering I now think it's actually a hair too low.\r\n\r\n>
    the Catalan digraph\r\n\r\nTrigraph?\r\n\r\n> Why not leave it to typographers
    and type designers?\r\n\r\nThat's effectively what happens in practice, necessarily,
    always.\r\nFreely ignore the bureaucrats.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-09 00:16:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> why he thinks ligating the ij might be good for \u2018readability\r\n>
    (via divergence)\u2019 if not to distinguish phonemes.\r\n\r\nTo distinguish boumas,
    obviously.\r\n\r\n> do you think it might be good for \u2018readability (via divergence)\u2019\r\n>
    to distinguish the ij in marijuana from the ij in hijack?\r\n\r\nNot too much,
    because their boumas are already very different.\r\nBut Dutch having many more
    \"ij\"s harbors more opportunities.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-09 00:20:59'
- author:
    name: T.
  body: "Bijna, leuk, buiten, auw, beurtelings, irritatie.\r\n\r\n> Inspired by this
    tread, I was wondering if someone could point me out \r\n> some nice typefaces
    with an IJ-ligature.\r\n\r\n\r\n> Thanks in advance!\r\n\r\n> T.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-09 00:30:28'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: I think a short explanation of the distinction of *-eme and bouma unit might
    be in order. Hrant, go first.
  created: '2007-06-09 00:34:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "A bouma is a unit of <cite>perception</cite> of visible language; it's nebulous,
    variable, dynamic and subconscious. As opposed to a unit of formal, conscious
    language, the stuff people <cite>think</cite> they're reading.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-09 00:37:55'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "What necessitates this being subconscious? Couldn't be complex, apparently
    contradictory on the surface, and only forced into the subconcius after conscious
    effort? And must this contrast with grapheme, Is the definition of a grapheme
    currently inadequate and unscientific?\r\n\r\nFrom the definition, a bouma sounds
    as real as \"santa\" or \"microbes\".\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-09 01:10:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> What necessitates this being subconscious?\r\n\r\nSpeed. Consciousness
    is too slow.\r\n\r\n> ... only forced into the subconcius after conscious effort?\r\n\r\nI'm
    not totally sure I understand you, but if I do: as a rule things go the other
    way.\r\n\r\n> bouma sounds as real as \u201Csanta\u201D or \u201Cmicrobes\u201D.\r\n\r\nI
    don't know how your kids fare on xmas,\r\nbut I do envy you for never getting
    sick.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-09 01:40:33'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: ">> What necessitates this being subconscious?\r\n>Speed. Consciousness is
    too slow.\r\n\r\nAt first. But people learn letterforms slowly, then develop it.
    And this can be repeated with first exposure to new languages with different diacritics,
    or with fractur faces, display runes or or other alphabets.\r\n\r\n>> \u2026 only
    forced into the subconscious after conscious effort?\r\n>I\u2019m not totally
    sure I understand you, but if I do: as a rule things >go the other way.\r\n\r\nSpelling
    and multiplication are learned, and then drilled into reflex responses. I'm think
    Pavlov disagrees with that rule.\r\n\r\n>> bouma sounds as real as \u201Csanta\u201D
    or \u201Cmicrobes\u201D.\r\n>I don\u2019t know how your kids fare on xmas,\r\n>but
    I do envy you for never getting sick.\r\n\r\nI'll get back to you on the first
    part. :) What I meant was that the concepts of microbial life were once mythic,
    ineffable, hard to describe consistently and thought of as \"spirits\", then innate
    humors, then \"corruptions\", then airborne bugs, etc. We know a bit now, and
    realize that it is rather complex, but they are real, and have observable functions
    and limits. With time and observation, they became clear and more real.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    I should have compared it to a Krakken, that in time \"became\" a Giant Squid.
    I am still intrigued by this.\r\n\r\nWould you say that a grapheme is made of
    boumas?"
  created: '2007-06-09 03:43:51'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>BTW, which do you prefer, the dot vertically centred on the full character
    height, or on the x-height?</em>\r\n\r\nx, with OpenType alternate for all caps
    settings?"
  created: '2007-06-09 03:51:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> But people learn letterforms slowly, then develop it.\r\n\r\nPeople learn
    letterforms slowly, then it \"clicks\": moves\r\ninto the subconscious. So yes,
    learning goes that way, but\r\nperception (the <cite>application</cite> of learning?)
    goes the other.\r\n\r\n> the concepts of microbial life were once mythic ...\r\n\r\nYes,
    that <cite>is</cite> our general current state with the understanding of\r\nreading.
    A term I like to use here is \"subvisible\": just like you need \r\na microscope
    to see microbes, you need the right \"tool\" to \"see\" it.\r\n\r\n> Would you
    say that a grapheme is made of boumas?\r\n\r\nMostly the other way around. A bouma
    is as large as possible, for speed.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-09 04:08:42'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "\"Mostly the other way around. A bouma is as large as possible, for speed.\"\r\n\r\nClick.
    Got it."
  created: '2007-06-09 04:27:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "We might actually be getting somewhere.\r\n\r\nAs I wrote earlier, I think
    the terms phoneme and grapheme are exchangeable, and the latter term is probably
    redundant, since both refer to perceptual units in language processing. In the
    same way that phoneme is used to refer to the mental abstraction of units of both
    vocal and sign language, so it may be used to refer to the same abstractions in
    textual language. To the language processing areas of the brain, language-is-language-is-language.
    But for the purposes of this discussion, let's stick with grapheme for now, so
    long as we're clear that a grapheme is something in the mind and not something
    on the page.\r\n\r\nNow, if we flesh out the notion of bouma and relate it to
    graphemes in the way that Hrant suggests, i.e. a bouma is made up of graphemes,
    then it's clear that we're looking at a different kind of perceptual unit, a unit
    in visual processing on its way to being broken down into units of language processing.
    The bouma, like the grapheme, is something in the mind, not on the page, but it's
    being handled by the parts of the brain that deal with visual perception not language
    cognition. Is this a reasonable statement, Hrant?\r\n\r\nSo I begin to see how
    you might make a distinction between e.g. the ij in two different Dutch words
    based on bouma divergence, but only in terms of adjacent letters, i.e. as part
    of a larger bouma of more than the single grapheme represented by the ij digraph.
    Is that the point?"
  created: '2007-06-09 19:54:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> both refer to perceptual units in language processing.\r\n\r\nNo; in immersion,
    neither.\r\n\r\n> a bouma is made up of graphemes\r\n\r\nNote my \"mostly\" perviously.\r\nSeeing
    a bouma strictly as a compilation of graphemes is counter-productive.\r\n\r\n>
    on its way to being broken down into units of language processing.\r\n\r\nBroken
    down, or built up? I'm not sure.\r\n\r\n> Is that the point?\r\n\r\nI think so.
    I'm proposing that the linguistic-analysis\r\nrelevance of \"ij\" is secondary
    and maybe even misleading.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-09 20:07:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>No; in immersion, neither.</em>\r\n\r\nAgain: language-is-language-is-language.
    We don't have special areas in the brain the process language differently depending
    whether we are reading 'immersively' or not. What happens before language gets
    to that stage, e.g. in vision and in perceptual processing, may be different,
    but phoneme and grapheme are terms that specifically refer to mentally abstracted
    units of <em>language</em>; they refer to what we recognise as units of language.
    Whatever else happens on the page, in the field of sight, in the eye, and in the
    visual receptors of the brain and the synaptic passage to those language processing
    areas, at some point you are dealing with phonemes. [Unless of course the phonemic
    model of language is incorrect, but -- very ironically considering your position
    -- the linguists who reject the phonemic model do so on the basis that they consider
    it a literary construct, i.e. inherently connected to writing and reading.]\r\n\r\n<em>Seeing
    a bouma strictly as a set of graphemes is counter-productive.</em>\r\n\r\nI agree.
    I think of bouma as one or more (usually more) features in a role architecture
    (to use Peter Enneson's phrase). So a bouma may be made up of features that happen
    to correspond to discreet graphemes, or may be composed of fragmentary features
    from different graphemes. One of the implications of this is that a single grapheme
    may contribute to multiple boumas (although, practically, probably not more than
    two).\r\n\r\n<em>Broken down, or built up? I\u2019m not sure.</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    can't build up to a phoneme because, by definition, the phoneme is the smallest
    recognised unit of language that contributes to the identify of a word. But if
    you think of boumas as package data, you could imagine phonemes being 'recompiled'
    from bouma perception. So let's imagine that the reader 'sees' two boumas, each
    of which includes features from a particular phoneme. At some point in word recognition,
    that information has to be re-organised by the brain so that the phoneme is identified.
    [Phoneme identity is crucial to word recognition, because the phoneme is the smallest
    unit of language that contributes to word identity, i.e. if you change one phoneme
    in a word, you have a different word.] So whatever role boumas play in the perceptual
    aspect of reading, at some point in the cognition aspect they must be translated
    into language, either by being broken down into phonemes (in the case of boumas
    made up of more than one discreet phoneme) or re-compiled into phonemes (in the
    case of cross-bouma phonemes).\r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019m proposing that the linguistic-analysis
    relevance of \u201Cij\u201D is secondary and maybe even misleading.</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    depends on whether, in terms of overall reading speed -- i.e. of the combined
    perceptual processing and language processing operations -- there is a net benefit
    to boumas corresponding to discreet graphemes. There may well be, in which case
    linguistic analysis would be an important tool in figuring out optimal bouma divergence.
    And even if there is not a significant gain in correlating boumas to graphemes
    or grapheme clusters, there might not be any converse gain, i.e. it might not
    matter one way or another whether boumas correlate to graphemes.\r\n\r\nBut the
    linguistic analysis does provide a methodology for approaching super-letter design
    issues, and I think this thread demonstrates that. We simply wouldn't be talking
    about the ij digraph and its possible divergence in boumas if not for the fact
    that it represents a discreet phoneme in Dutch. And I notice, with significant
    irony, that all of your proposed ideas for different graphical representation
    of ij are made in isolation, i.e. not considered as part of larger boumas. As
    such, I think they're basically arbitrary, capricious design play. In order to
    make a serious case for divergence, you would need to identify potentially confuseable
    boumas involving ij, in which varying the representation of ij would disambiguate
    the boumas.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-10 01:37:13'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: Are there any loan words in Dutch that are homographic to indigenous words,
    but pronounced differently?
  created: '2007-06-10 05:13:30'
- author:
    name: ewalthert
    picture: 112324
  body: "Just something came up by expanding TazIII at fontfabrik. By reading a dutch
    book I was surprised to read the word fijn over and over with a 'fi' ligature
    separating the 'j' form the 'i'. I would have posted it into this [[http://www.typophile.com/node/3807|treat]],
    but it seems to be closed.\r\nMy solution for this problem would be <strong>sub
    f j' j' by f ij;</strong> and <strong>sub f f ij.alt by f_f_ij.alt;</strong>.
    Sure including a language lookup so the Fijians still will have the f_i in front
    of the j.\r\nThe only page I found something about this subject so far was [[http://blogs.msdn.com/michkap/archive/2006/08/14/698304.aspx|Sorting
    It All Out]].\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Tazfijn_4106.jpg]\r\n\r\nAseptically
    if the dot of the 'i' is swallowed by the 'f' the wrong letters are bundled together
    :\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TheSansfijn_5290.jpg]"
  created: '2007-12-20 11:39:53'
- author:
    name: vanblokland
    picture: 110442
  body: Personally I don't think the <em>fi j n</em> looks good. The <em>f i j n</em>option
    is better, or the <em>f ij n</em> in which the f does not ligate with the ij.
    When the kids learn to read, the popular vowel combinations <em>ee aa uu oo oe
    ui ei ij</em> are taught as single sounds which happen to be written with two
    letters. The <em>ij</em> ligature would be better, a u with a long j tail and
    a dieresis.
  created: '2007-12-20 16:02:15'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>My solution for this problem would be sub f j&#x0027; j&#x0027; by
    f ij;</em>\r\n\r\nDid you mean to say  <code>sub f i\u2019 j\u2019 by ij;</code>
    \ ?\r\n\r\nPersonally I'd prefer a similar solution used for Turkish, and leave
    the 'liga' feature alone. Something like:\r\n<code>\r\nlanguagesystem latn dflt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;languagesystem
    latn NLD;\r\n\r\nfeature locl {\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;script latn;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;language
    NLD exclude_dflt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;sub
    f i' j by i.dot;\r\n} locl;\r\n\r\nfeature liga {\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;sub f f
    i by f_f_i;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;sub f i by f_i;\r\n} liga;</code>\r\n\r\n(This,
    of course, would be unnecessary if people were typing the character &#x0133; instead
    of the characters i and j.)\r\n\r\n[Edit: Made small correction to the code]"
  created: '2007-12-21 08:41:03'
- author:
    name: neverblink
    picture: 113022
  body: "vanblokland wrote:\r\n<cite>When the kids learn to read, the popular vowel
    combinations ee aa uu oo oe ui ei ij are taught as single sounds which happen
    to be written with two letters.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut the difference between the 'ij'
    and other combinations, like the ones you mentioned is that they are not capitalized
    together (as T mentioned earlier in this thread). Wich to me suggest that we (the
    Dutch) 'can' see the 'ij' as a single (composit) letterform. I'm not aware of
    any other character combination, that gets capitalized together, even if they
    have the same sound as an 'ij' ('ei').\r\n\r\nie:\r\n'ijs' becomes 'IJs' (translated:
    ice)\r\n'eis' becomes 'Eis' (translated: demand)\r\n\r\nAre there other languages
    where this is common practice? Or other character combinations wich get capitalized
    together?\r\n\r\nedit:\r\nI thought of the Spanish 'll' digraph, as I remember
    it being written capitalized together, but according to wikipedia, that was wrong.\r\n\r\n<cite>This
    digraph is considered a single letter in Spanish orthography, called elle. From
    1803 was collated after L as a separate entry, but this is no longer done: in
    April of 1994, a votation in the X Congress [1] of the Association of Spanish
    Language Academies ruled the adoption of the standard Latin alphabet collation
    rules, so that for purposes of collation the digraph ll is now considered a sequence
    of two characters. The same is now true of the Spanish-language digraph, ch. Hypercorrection
    leads some to wrongly capitalize it as a single letter (\"LLosa\" instead of the
    official \"Llosa\") as with the Dutch IJ.</cite>\r\nsource: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ll"
  created: '2007-12-21 10:09:52'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/wij-eisen-ijs_6656.jpg]\r\nby <a href=\"http://www.fiepwestendorp.nl/fiepamsterdam/\">Fiep
    Westendorp</a>, from <a href=\"http://www.annie-mg.com/\">Annie M.G. Schmidt</a>\u2019s
    <a href=\"http://www.annie-mg.com/huiskamer/annies_werk/boeken/floddertje1.html\">\u2018Floddertje\u2019</a>"
  created: '2007-12-21 11:24:00'
- author:
    name: neverblink
    picture: 113022
  body: "more examples:\r\n\r\nhttp://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/e/e2/Leesplankje_van_Hoogeveen_%282%29.png\r\nnote
    the 'g-ij-s'\r\n\r\nhttp://www.crwflags.com/fotw/images/n/nl~phij.gif\r\n\r\nhttp://www.new-renaissance.com/fonts/gfx/alphabet-oddities/westmonasterii-1-dodington.jpg\r\n\r\nearlier
    discussion about the 'ij'; http://www.typophile.com/node/3807"
  created: '2007-12-21 12:38:23'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<cite>W[h]ich to me suggest that we (the Dutch) \u2019can\u2019 see the \u2019ij\u2019
    as a single (composit) letterform. </cite>\r\n\r\nVery probable, considering the
    widespread usage of Y instead of IJ, especially in the 19th century.\r\nAnd some
    dictionaries and encyclopediae used an extra chapter for IJ.\r\nAlso proof of
    this is that in some regions IJ is pronounced differently, eg \u2018ie\u2019 in
    the East.\r\n\r\n(I am talking about the Lowlands, of course).\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert
    Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2007-12-21 14:39:17'
- author:
    name: neverblink
    picture: 113022
  body: "<cite>Also proof of this is that in some regions IJ is pronounced differently,
    eg \u2018ie\u2019 in the East.</cite>\r\nActually, I think that is a remnant of
    the origin of the 'j' shape itself.\r\nBefore the 'j' was a character, it was
    an alternative 'i'. A way to tell a 'ii' from a 'u', was to make the last 'i'
    longer ('ii' became 'ij'). I believe this was used in much the same way as a 'long
    s' was used, at the end of a syllable. An example of a common Dutch word, still
    in use, which has the 'ii'-sound, but is written with 'ij' is <em>bijzonder</em>
    (translated: special)."
  created: '2007-12-21 16:27:23'
- author:
    name: ewalthert
    picture: 112324
  body: "Thank you all so far. \r\nThat <strong>ij</strong> is a separate glyph in
    dutch and needs special handling is out of question.\r\nBy discussing the case
    with Luc(as) we decided that Erik suggestion for using \r\n<strong>f ij n</strong>
    rather than <strong>fij n</strong> makes totally sense.\r\n\r\nAs we are taking
    care of the glyph-order in the glyph-window in <strong>CS3</strong> which is default
    set on 'sorted by Unicode' there is a new issue coming up. \r\nIf I use <strong>sub
    f i' j' by i_j</strong> (thanks Ms :) all the ligatures will not longer be placed
    behind the <strong>f</strong>. Just a detail but to avoid that i created a <strong>f_i_j</strong>
    and <strong>f_f_i_j</strong> ligature without connection to be used in Dutch,
    as long <strong>ij.alt</strong> is not applied.\r\n\r\nI would be really interested
    if someone has a better approach for this problem or a suggestion how to handle
    it more elegant."
  children:
  - author:
      name: ewalthert
      picture: 112324
    body: "<strong>@Florian:</strong> funny that I got on the subject by reading a
      book by <strong>Fiep Westendorp</strong> in which <strong>fijn</strong> is written
      always <strong>fi jn</strong>. This mad me think about the disadvantages of
      the nowadays easy and automatic accessed ligatures. \r\nAs you proof Miss Westendrop
      would have known better, but a Dutch book designer just did not think about
      this issue. Same case on the Dutch system of Mac OS X. A folder with nice pictures
      will be called <strong>fi jn beelden</strong>."
    created: '2008-01-07 12:36:14'
  created: '2008-01-07 12:12:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>a suggestion how to handle it more elegant.</em>\r\n\r\nSeems to be similar
    to the Turkish f_i situation.\r\nFor that, a \"locl\" feature with the use of
    a special \"Turkish i\" -- identical to the normal dotted i--has been recommended.\r\n\r\nSo
    perhaps a \"Dutch j\" is needed, for use after the letters fi, to kill the ligature.\r\n\r\nIn
    the locl feature:\r\n\r\nLanguage Dutch\r\nsub f i j' by DUTCH_j;\r\n\r\nAnd later,
    in the liga feature:\r\n\r\nignore sub f i DUTCH_j;\r\n\r\nSorry if that's not
    the final code, but just thought I'd mention the idea.\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-07 16:55:14'
- author:
    name: neverblink
    picture: 113022
  body: "Sorry for the bump, but I recently came across this abbreviation (initialism)
    for the first Dutch Railway company (HIJSM, 1839-1938) with the I_J put together,
    which made me remember this thread..\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dutch_ij_digraph_4155.jpg]"
  created: '2009-06-03 16:35:47'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "Hi Nick,\r\n\r\nThe Turkish fi ffi issue is a good analogy with the Dutch
    fij, ffij. It's another argument to start using the proper Unicode character for
    Double I.\r\n\r\nBTW, as a Turkologist I alerted Johan van Wingen of possible
    fi and ffi collision in Turkish for the first time some time in the late 1980's,
    when we were both members of the Netherlands Normalisation Institute's Work Group
    ISO10646 (later merged with UNICODE). It never occurred to me that Dutch has a
    similar problem. Thanks :-)\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-23 18:45:46'
- author:
    name: vincent_morley
    picture: 109590
  body: "<cite>Before the 'j' was a character, it was an alternative 'i'. A way to
    tell a 'ii' from a 'u', was to make the last 'i' longer ('ii' became 'ij'). I
    believe this was used in much the same way as a 'long s' was used, at the end
    of a syllable.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis custom was followed when setting or writing
    lower case Roman numerals in various European languages. For example:\r\n8 = viij\r\n12
    = xij \r\nand so on."
  created: '2010-02-23 23:04:31'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "In English, fi is a ligature to avoid kerns colliding. But even so, it is
    still an \"f\" followed by an \"i\". In Dutch, the native ij combination is viewed
    as the 25th letter of a 27-letter alphabet; X IJ Y Z.\r\n\r\nMaking ij into a
    ligature would be done for two reasons - to follow normal Dutch handwriting in
    cursive fonts, and to emphasize to foreigners that this is as much \"one letter\"
    as the Russian \"yerry\" - which is not a soft sign followed by a (Latin!) I.\r\n\r\nIn
    some schoolbook fonts, ij is made into a something which sort of looks like a
    y, but the top is more like u (think of a handprinted g) - with dots over the
    two upstrokes. A picture of that was shown in the other thread. Probably \"infant\"
    fonts and cursive fonts would be the main use for an ij ligature, because the
    Dutch already see it as one letter without such help."
  created: '2010-02-24 01:05:52'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "@John (quadibloc):\r\nHere\u2019s such a ligated \u0133, in a metal Infant
    version of Gill Sans.\r\n<a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/hardwig/4383897799/\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/zus_5913.jpg]</a>\r\n\r\nJohn
    said:\r\n<cite>In Dutch, the native ij combination is viewed as the 25th letter
    of a 27-letter alphabet; X IJ Y Z.</cite>\r\n\r\nHowever, Dutch children are taught
    that the ligated \u0133 is the minuscule equivalent to Y:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/hardwig/4383897867/\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nl-ij-2_3637.gif]</a>\r\n\r\nThere
    are exceptions to this tradition, where \u0133 and y are presented as two different
    characters:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/hardwig/4384660968/\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nl-ij_5174.gif]</a>"
  created: '2010-02-24 10:26:55'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: I can't help but notice that the infant Gill Sans sample is entirely in lowercase.
    Is this usual? Are children not expected to handle capital letters together with
    small letters yet?
  created: '2010-02-24 11:21:30'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Brian: Yes, in many teaching methods, majuscules are introduced only after
    the minuscules have been mastered.\r\n\r\nHere\u2019s a (rather rare) example
    of a ligated majuscule \u0132 in a writing primer. Only here it becomes clear
    that \u0133/\u0132 is not just i+j/I+J, let alone \xFF/Y.\r\n<a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/hardwig/4385742594/\"
    title=\"yY zZ \u0133\u0132 by Florian Hardwig, on Flickr\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/4385742594_dc5b90c19a_4332.jpg]</a>"
  created: '2010-02-24 21:15:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Funny, those green-yellow-red dots show where to start-change-stop\r\nstrokes,
    I guess. I myself would end up doing those <em>just</em> like I drive...  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-24 21:21:18'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "[Off-topic] Bonus information for you, Hrant, as I know you are a big fan:
    These letters were digitized by Evert Bloemsma. (For further information, you\u2019d
    need to contact Albert-Jan Pool.)"
  created: '2010-02-24 22:53:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Great to know! Thanks.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-24 23:35:02'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Old computer printers and teletypewriter terminals had the minimum character
    set required to convey useful information. And so they only printed upper-case
    letters, and not lower-case. Some people decried this, on the basis that since
    lower-case is more legible, with ascenders and descenders, monocase output devices
    should have printed in lower-case only.\r\n\r\nCulturally, that idea would simply
    have been unthinkable in the English-speaking world, at least. On the other hand,
    I remember seeing a short film about computer music research in Eastern Europe
    in which I did see such a teleprinter, along with computer magnetic tape that
    had sprockets like movie film."
  created: '2010-02-25 13:32:35'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "How to \u2026?\r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Lap_ij_5509.jpg]\r\n.\r\n\u2013
    should the descender of the lowercase ij strech to the far left or not?\r\n(the
    j has the shorter version)\r\n\r\n\u2013 shall the all-caps version get a descender?\r\n\r\n\u2013
    any more comments?"
  created: '2010-06-03 09:17:59'
- author:
    name: pvanderlaan
    picture: 112305
  body: "Andreas, in short a few remarks.\r\n\r\nThe lowercase version doesn\u2019t
    look very readable to me:\r\n\u2013 It seems too wide;\r\n\u2013 And the dots
    don\u2019t align with the stems which makes it look more like a ydieresis glyph.\r\n\r\nFrom
    my own experience I discovered that a lowercase ij looks best when:\r\n\u2013
    It is slightly narrower than u;\r\n\u2013 The dots properly align with the stems;\r\n\u2013
    The tail extends more to the left than the normal j, but less than a single story
    g.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dutch-ij_4724.png]\r\n\r\nBut I
    am sure these rules will differ between the different styles of the typefaces
    again...\r\n\r\nHope this helps!\r\n\r\n-Paul\r\n\r\n[[http://www.boldmonday.com]]"
  created: '2010-06-03 09:53:07'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Paul,\r\nthanks a lot for your comments, giving some notable insight!\r\nThe
    capital versions you obviously can live with \u2026\r\n\r\nA typophile\u2019s
    compendium of such knowlegde would be my desiderate  ;-)\r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2010-06-03 15:39:48'
- author:
    name: pvanderlaan
    picture: 112305
  body: "You\u2019re welcome, Andreas.\r\n\r\nOn second sight the cap version could
    do with a shorter I perhaps \u2013 this will seperate the I and J a bit more without
    making the glyph wider. Just to make sure that it won't be mistaken for a U when
    used in smaller sizes.\r\n\r\n-Paul"
  created: '2010-06-03 17:22:27'
- author:
    name: whyawhelk
  body: "As a Dutch reader, I have to agree about the dots. It looks like a y with
    an umlaut, and for a moment I thought it was a different language. The dots go
    directly above the stems. \r\n\r\nI've grown very accustomed to the absence of
    a dotted ij ligature in the lowercase, there are very few fonts around that have
    them, and if they do, they're rarely used, certainly not in printed text like
    newspapers and magazines or anything anyone's made in a word processing program.
    As a result, when I do see it, I associate it with childrens' books, like the
    scans shown upthread. For that reason, for the lowercase, I personally prefer
    the descender that doesn't stretch to the left as far, it looks less like a childrens'
    book and is more reminiscent of the j descender that I've grown used to seeing.
    (Though it seems a tad short, maybe something in between the two.)\r\n\r\nEdit:
    The cap is nice, I like it."
  created: '2010-06-03 18:46:00'
date: '2007-05-30 11:13:38'
title: IJ-ligature fonts

---
