---
author:
  name: litera
  picture: 112575
body: "Hi guys. It came to a point I had to design a logo for my own company. Just
  when I got to do it I found out I'd rather change the name of my company. I made
  it too complicated for me.\r\n\r\nI'm a actually a developer but I also do design
  jobs (press/web/ux/ia). I used to do design as my second job but I ended up without
  any time of my own so I focused more on development lately.\r\n\r\nAbout the logo.
  I made many designs so far but I couldn't get any \"wow idea\" so far. I tried all
  kinds of stuff (starting on paper) but ended up with some very clean and too simple
  logo that just has a font variation. I wanted something that makes you smile.\r\n\r\nLogo
  should be half serious and reflect (if possible):\r\n- software solutions on Microsoft
  products\r\n- innovation\r\n- quality\r\nLogo should be applicable on different
  mediums of different quality.\r\n\r\nSince it's sole proprietorship company it has
  a rather complicated full name (EN translation):\r\nInovares, innovative solutions
  Robert Koritnik s.p.\r\n\r\nI would be really glad to get any input from you gurus.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/inosp_6288.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I suggest that like a program or code you write you list for yourself all
    the goals you have in mind for the design. And your survey your competition so
    you see what you are competing against, what you need to be different from & maybe
    better than. When you have made your survey of what is around you you can decide
    on tone. I don't suggest half serious that's too wishy-washy. Pick a direction
    or emphasis - especially when you are small. \r\n\r\nBTW- Why 'something that
    makes you smile'? That is only one way to make people remember you. It might be
    the right way to do that - but keep in mind the larger goal it serves. Being remebered
    is usualy the #1 goal of a logo design. \r\n\r\nI suggest that even though what
    you made is nice - it isn't memorable. I would start again with a plan & work
    up to the solution in an intentional/deliberate way.\r\n\r\nFeel free to post
    more stuff or talk about your thought process.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-31 03:10:42'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "play. sketch. thumbnail. what saul bass called \"fooling around...\"\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/didyoutry_4402.jpg]\r\n\r\nyou
    have some very nice type going on. but think \"innovative\" (or as apple used
    to say, \"think different.\" [ly])"
  created: '2007-05-31 05:28:46'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "Ok. Thank you. Both of you. I really needed this.\r\n\r\nFirst of all I wanted
    to \"pump\" from the following things and conceptions:\r\n- innovation\r\n- idea\r\n-
    new\r\n- change\r\n- @ (these days related to internet/web/email)\r\n- exclamation
    mark (as wow when there's an innovation)\r\n- future\r\n- development\r\n\r\nHere
    are some scans of my paper drawings (some). None of them got realised so far because
    I didn't find them worth going deeper.\r\n\r\nthere are more ideas here.\r\n-
    letter i in some 3D shape: cube/sphere\r\n- stars/sparks as ideas\r\n- egg with
    stars as \"idea is born\"\r\n- i in shape of @\r\n\r\nI also had a daisy (happy
    go lucky) in normal and digitised (squared) and flying dandelion seed (free/innovative
    ideas).\r\n\r\nBut none of them is like: \"WOW this is clever.\"\r\n\r\n...Robert[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Idea-Scans_5088.jpg]"
  created: '2007-05-31 09:33:30'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "I have always loved the Impulse Records logo... \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/masthead_r_3810.gif]"
  created: '2007-05-31 12:34:39'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "thank god I didn't scan the paper idea that was VERY similar to the Impulse
    symbol on the logo.\r\n\r\n:)\r\n\r\nThanks for the input.\r\n\r\nAny of the scanned
    ideas worth working on?\r\n\r\n\r\n...Robert"
  created: '2007-05-31 12:54:26'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "I think the 3-D form is interesting, but doesn't really say innovation. The
    star could also be a workable symbol...\r\n\r\n\r\nThis is probably corny:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/withstar_3526.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nBut
    generally, I like your clean approach - I don't think it's dull or anything. It
    just needs more punch (for my tastes)."
  created: '2007-05-31 13:16:21'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "I was playing a bit with the combined i and @ and came out with these three
    minor different symbols. If you look at them you could also see a person. because
    I'm a one person consultant/developer this could also be a way of doing it.\r\n\r\nI
    was thinking how to make this more \"person\" and more importantly even a computer
    person but still not too much so it will also resemble into an i as @...\r\n\r\nI'll
    concentrate on typography later.\r\n\r\n...Robert[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ino
    symbol 1_3444.jpg]"
  created: '2007-05-31 15:29:47'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "And more importantly: has anyone seen a logotype like this before, because
    it looks too easy not to be implemented yet?\r\n\r\n...Robert"
  created: '2007-05-31 15:31:16'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "chuckgroth:\r\n\r\nI was also playing with stars a bit. Here's the result.
    I was also thinking of capturing stars on a negative square (or something) to
    capture them somehow \"on the sky\".\r\n\r\nBecause of four stars of different
    size we get dimension and \"non-corny\" look of a single five-star that too much
    reminds on communist times... ;) if it was red, no one would think in any other
    way.\r\n\r\n...Robert[img:sites/default/files/old-images/inosp2_4251.jpg]"
  created: '2007-05-31 15:38:16'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"And more importantly: has anyone seen a logotype like this before, because
    it looks too easy not to be implemented yet?\"\r\n\r\nClose, but not the same:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.primordia.com/blog/archives/images/The_Incredibles.png\r\n\r\nFYI,
    I liked the cracked-egg w/stars idea..."
  created: '2007-05-31 15:55:54'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "The last version seems strong to me. And any of these ideas might be a good
    direction but I suggest that you have to be more rigorous to pick the right one
    to focus on. You can just decide that you like one best or that it is the most
    memorable - but that is just 'shooting from the hip'. Who are you competitors?
    What do they do for logos?  Take a look at it against it's competition. \r\n\r\nThis
    is beyond what is normally done for a small company but to take things to a really
    professional level you could do a careful experiment with strangers ( maybe pay
    them a small fee ) & see if your logo is more memorable than your competitors*
    by flashing the logos in a random order on a screen and then asking for the names.
    Or by showing the logos again with extras they didn't see & asking which ones
    they subject saw in the series. Time the response. There are many possibilities.
    20 people or so may be enough to get a good sense. You can also ask what people
    feel or associate with your logo & the others - you may be surprised.\r\n\r\n*you
    should mix in local logos from other categories of business as well and maybe
    some famous ones too."
  children:
  - author:
      name: litera
      picture: 112575
    body: "@eben:\r\nthank you. the last version was interesting, but I think I found
      a better place to put the star in.\r\n\r\nRegarding competition I don't consider
      anyone that does the same things as competitor. More like a possible business
      partner. Because I'm primarily a contractor which means I'm normally not bidding
      on projects. At least 95% of the time I'm not. Most of the small companies don't
      really have a logo whatsoever. Some do. I'll make a research.\r\n\r\nI'm definitely
      showing this to others too.\r\n\r\nYou're right. I will have to go one way.
      I just wanted to refine ideas into a better and more comparable result than
      just sketches. I will have to go with one of that I made."
    created: '2007-05-31 18:34:03'
  created: '2007-05-31 17:28:45'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "Here is the possible solution with i integrated into an @:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/inosp4_4695.jpg]\r\n\r\nand
    the other one that I found a great way to put a star in. I guess it's quite nice.
    I may add a star or two (smaller) to make the \"sparkling effect\" but this is
    the basic idea.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/inosp3_4104.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    guess I came far enough to go with one of these. I know it's not going to be a
    perfect logo and I'm small, but I like challenges."
  created: '2007-05-31 18:32:29'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Robert, this last version is strong. I only wonder if the 2 sub-lines shouldn't
    be pushed to the right. At the moment they are centered under the star, but not
    under the word and I find it distracting.
  children:
  - author:
      name: litera
      picture: 112575
    body: "I deliberately optically centred them under the star because it's the most
      visually emphasized symbol in the logo.\r\n\r\nI'll play with this last one
      more because it also looks quite promissing to me.\r\n\r\nDo you find the star
      distracting on the neighbouring letters O and A? I've also put it in the back
      of the letters but the impact diminishes..."
    created: '2007-05-31 18:43:39'
  created: '2007-05-31 18:37:45'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I like the star and how it is used. The logo itself is nice and the fact that
    the star isn't exactly in the center doesn't bother me. If the start were in the
    exact center I'd say centering the sublines would be fine, but it isn't so it
    is distracting.
  created: '2007-05-31 20:13:25'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "Your ideas w/the star are interesting -- more so than the \"i\" and \"@\"
    combination.\r\nI agree with MT about the placement of the secondary text. Slightly
    off-center feels odd to me; I also would try flush right."
  created: '2007-05-31 22:59:46'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: Your original logo is way better than anything else on this page. Tricky logos
    look cheap. Go simple, then add the surprise with other brand elements.
  created: '2007-06-01 04:14:27'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: I think the clean type was strong, but I;m not going to dissuade him from
    exploring options. And I think he's moving toward something HE'S more comfortable
    with, which is the true aim of a logo.
  created: '2007-06-01 04:46:13'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: I remember passing through Ljublana (sp?) several years ago, on my way through
    central europe, and down into croatia. Beautiful part of the world. I taught myself
    a little Croatian and Bosnian to get by, but confess to knowing scant Slovenian...
  children:
  - author:
      name: litera
      picture: 112575
    body: "Nice.\r\n\r\nSo you have another good reason to visit Slovenia again...
      :)"
    created: '2007-06-01 09:25:48'
  created: '2007-06-01 05:50:42'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: Yes. Like I said, beautiful part of the world. Looks like ski-country.
  created: '2007-06-05 00:10:54'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "We're slowly getting there. :) This is the latest version in four different
    variants. The remaining text is missing and will be added afterwards. Star sizes
    are adjusted to the V letter of a certain typeface and have therefore different
    shapes and sizes.\r\n\r\nI incorporates stars on V and added two additional one
    to:\r\n1. balance the stars to the optical centre of the text\r\n2. make the \"sparkling\"
    not just a star. Innovation is a sparkling idea.\r\n\r\n<strong>Some questions
    for you:</strong>\r\n1. What's your opinion about the logo solution?\r\n2. Which
    typeface do you prefer if any of the shown?\r\n3. Would you suggest another one
    to test? Which?\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/inosp5_5398.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    would like your opinion."
  created: '2007-06-05 17:48:40'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: Out of the 4 Insignia but with a flat bottom v.
  created: '2007-06-05 20:16:11'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "Here's a flat bottom \"v\" Insignia version:\r\n\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/inosp6_6401.jpg]\r\n\r\nAnyone
    else's preference? I was leaning toward Avenir but don't like the italics, because
    they have no cursive letters... For the same reason I like Myriad, but I don't
    like the \"va\" part of it because it makes it too \"poetic\".\r\nInsignia was
    chosen for it's very clean industrial shapes but lacks other versions...\r\nAvantgarde
    is also very geometric as Insignia and has sets and all but I prefer insignias
    style better."
  created: '2007-06-06 10:22:18'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "Actually Insignia does have the best style for my eye. But...\r\n\r\nThe
    best possible font would be:\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>complete family with real cursive
    italics\r\n<li>geometric industrial shapes like Insignia\r\n<li>very little stroke
    modulation\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nAnyone has any particular font in mind?"
  created: '2007-06-06 14:16:06'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "<strong>I'm still open for opinions/suggestions</strong> about the last logo
    solution with stars (whatever typeface used).\r\n\r\nThank you."
  created: '2007-06-07 18:07:40'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "Check out Mark Simonson's <a href=\"http://ms-studio.com/FontSales/proximanova.html\"
    target=\"_blank\">Proxima Nova</a> if you want an alternative to Avenir but with
    true italics.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2007-06-07 18:13:10'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "I need your opinion.\r\nWhich of the two would you choose:\r\n<dl></dl>\r\n<strong>A:</strong>
    customized Insignia\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/inosp6_4650.jpg]\r\n\r\n<dl></dl>\r\n<strong>B:</strong>
    custom font (probably still needs some work)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/inosp7_3654.jpg]"
  created: '2007-06-11 21:43:18'
- author:
    name: sch2525
    picture: 112170
  body: "Insignia!\r\n\r\nI like your custom font, but with the offset stars, I think
    the letters looks a little wobbley."
  created: '2007-06-12 17:48:19'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "The problem that I have with Insignia is that it's too geometric. Custom
    font has more \"creativity\" in it why I like it. And it's weight is lighter than
    Insignia's (only has one single weight - which also makes it rather unusable to
    me) and that is another reason for me to like it even more.\r\n\r\nDo you think
    I would go completely off if I <cite>don't</cite> choose Insignia?"
  created: '2007-06-13 07:36:50'
- author:
    name: sch2525
    picture: 112170
  body: "I don't think you have anything to lose by <em>not</em> chosing Insignia
    - I just like how it looks. In fact, I like how it is geometric...but that's just
    my opinion obviously.\r\n\r\nBut on second though, I do really like the unique
    qualities of your custom font. Hmmm\r\n\r\nTough one."
  created: '2007-06-13 15:40:09'
- author:
    name: golfomat
    picture: 110117
  body: "Sorry to say this, but the first thing it reminds me of: adidas.\r\n\r\nEspecially
    the geometric sans versions (too many round characters). Even though adidas is
    having three stripes (and way bigger) where you have three stars the shape drawn
    by these is triangular. They won't sue for this but resemblance is not what you're
    trying to achieve.\r\n\r\nThe custom font version is the way to go I guess. I
    really liked the spec you showed in the other thread.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-28 19:05:31'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "Thanks golfomat. The sans serif type is still in development and I also decided
    to give it a try. The letters seen here are first revision. Now I'm already on
    the fourth and it becomes slowly what I want it to be. Every day. I'm closer.\r\n\r\nAbout
    the adidas comparison. I don't think there's a big percentage of people that would
    see it the way you did. So I guess I'll be going with the same idea.\r\n\r\nI'll
    post the result when the type is ready enough to make the complete logo (didn't
    want it to turn this way but we learn every day)."
  created: '2007-06-28 23:07:44'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: Actually, it reminded me of Macy's, especially with Avant Garde. Any geometric
    sans gives almost the same illusion, too.
  created: '2007-06-29 18:18:40'
- author:
    name: golfomat
    picture: 110117
  body: "If we stick to discussing this topic here we might get slightly dragged away
    into psychology and branding - another thread? \"When is it resemblance and when
    is it you?\"?!?\r\n\r\nFor the logotype: I think the \"e\" needs some work. I'd
    consider making the eye a little smaller. Or lower the spine of the \"s\". For
    me there's a slight imbalance with these characters. The \"wobbliness\" within
    the other characters has a lot of charme. Maybe counterspaces are to symmetric,
    which is irritating.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-05 21:57:12'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "There's another thread where this font is designed and yes in the fifth revision
    of the font, letter \"e\" has smaller eye that matches \"s\". :) How convenient.
    :)\r\n\r\nCheck the thread here:\r\n[[http://typophile.com/node/34406|Opinion
    on this sans serif font (Inovares)]]\r\n\r\nAnd you're welcome to comment in that
    one also."
  created: '2007-07-06 11:55:43'
- author:
    name: golfomat
    picture: 110117
  body: The e,s look much better in your most recent revision. I comment on both threads
    if you set your logo in Inovares No.5 (or 6!).
  created: '2007-07-06 21:44:50'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "I think this is going to be the last version of my logo. Anyone has any additional
    suggestions before I close the decision?\r\n\r\nChanges:\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>font used
    is my own Inovares Medium\r\n<li>stars have rounded inner corners to make them
    look non communist-times like\r\n<li>stars' angles were not perfect the last time
    that's why I made a variation of letter \"v\" to make them more balanced and perfect
    shape with 36 degree angles\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/inosp8_6196.jpg]"
  created: '2007-07-11 18:38:56'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'The one thing I keep thinking: the stars are overpowering the word. Either
    the word needs the same level of tone as the stars or more than the stars. I also
    keep thinking the star is too close to the v ... I find that distracting as well.'
  created: '2007-07-11 19:13:46'
- author:
    name: Unified
    picture: 112716
  body: 'A couple little things, read through the thread and agree with "innovative
    solutions...s.p" might look better flush right. Second, the stars are pretty dominant
    and causing conflict with the company name. A suggestion might be tone it down
    or reverse the blue with the grey. '
  created: '2007-07-11 23:35:10'
date: '2007-05-31 00:18:41'
title: Stuck with my own company's logo.

---
