---
author:
  name: fredo
  picture: 110623
body: "One thing that scares me with children is, what if You have one and they turn
  out to have the worst taste in music? My plan is to brain wash them from day one
  minus 9 months by playing my music over and over again. I'm fairly sure they will
  appreciate this later on. Not too sure about the mother, though. \r\n\r\nOn to this
  particular case, I assume some of you have kids and You fear they will never spot
  the difference between Sabon and Sabon Next, Arial and Helvetica, Frutiger and Myriad,
  etc. Scary awkward dinner conversations ensue as an apparent divide between generations
  and interests manifest.  Now we don't want that. \r\n\r\nI'm not saying you're doing
  a bad job, but just to be on the safe side I thought I'll mention a book now available
  in english that Mark Batty recently published; <a href=\"http://www.markbattypublisher.com/servlet/book_view?number=47\">The
  Serif Fairy</a> by Ren\xE9 Siegfried, to hopefully avoid such situations. You can
  still dream of a Linn Boyd-Morris Fuller kind of relationship with the kid.\r\n\r\nGood
  luck!\r\n\r\n\u0192"
comments:
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Face it, your kids are gonna rebel and use Comic Sans for everything.\r\n\r\nBut
    by the time they grow up info will be beamed directly into their brains obviating
    the need for type at all."
  created: '2007-05-31 15:33:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Cute book.\r\nMy favorite kid's type book: \"A Type Detective Story\", M
    Woolman, 1997.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-31 15:42:39'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: I don't think you can "enforce" your musical taste on your children (even
    on a subconscious level). I can only look at my family to see your upbringing
    doesn't have an influence on your personal taste. Best case scenario, you'll only
    be able to pass on your moral standards to your children and maybe spark an interest
    by showing them yours. Both my sisters & I all have different tastes in movies,
    music,... & overall different interests. I can't even seem to find a genetic reason
    in my entire family that explains my affection for typography, graphic design
    & sharks. I think the only thing you can do with your kids is to keep your fingers
    crossed & stimulate them in whatever turn out to be their interests.
  created: '2007-05-31 15:46:44'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "The best thing my parents did for me (my mother especially) is make me curious
    about things. It keeps life interesting.\r\n\r\nThey also tried serious brain
    washing of the Mormon variety but that didn't take too well\u2026 :)\r\n\r\npeas"
  created: '2007-05-31 15:47:04'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: All parents brainwash, to some degree or other, whether it's religion or other
    variant of behaviour.  The trick, as you pointed out Paul, is to instill that
    sense of curiousity, along with the appropriate social skills to enable the child
    to navigate their society successfully.
  created: '2007-05-31 15:51:28'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'At the very least a type book is better than the recent proliferation of
    childrens books involving farts. '
  created: '2007-05-31 15:54:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> your upbringing doesn\u2019t have an influence on your personal taste.\r\n\r\nThat's
    just crazy-talk!\r\nBut of course, never total influence.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-31 15:55:03'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "Interesting idea, but I couldn't even begin to describe the differences between
    \ two types of ammunition (my father was in the military), just as he probably
    doesn't know what a descender is.  I have a feeling if he'd have made any kind
    of effort to educate me about the minutiae of his profession, I wouldn't be on
    this board right now. \r\n\r\nI am definitely going to buy that book, though. "
  created: '2007-05-31 15:57:50'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Your upbringing can have an influence when the parent's interests somehow
    spark a similar interest in their children, but I think all children reach a period
    of rebellion & nothing (or very little) of all things that were "enforced" to
    the child will survive. Children can definitely be molded to a certain degree,
    but I think it would take some serious brainwashing to make it last through puberty
    ;-) Like Paul said, you might be able to make children curious about things, but
    you have to keep in account that children will come across other sources (school
    & mostly friends) that will have a much bigger impact on their final interests
    & personality.
  created: '2007-05-31 16:13:53'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "My son will be born in October. All I am hoping for is that he has some critical
    thinking skills and situational awareness. I assume his tastes will totally confound
    me. I expect no appreciation of type, unless it totally consumes him.\r\n\r\nI
    am preparing for a worst-case scenario where he becomes the #3 sycophant to a
    cult leader, and wastes all his time, vision and resources to support some whacko's
    half-baked ideas, and is eliminated by a federal sting operation with out even
    a notable obituary.\r\n\r\nIf I can handle that, I'll probably be very happy if
    he just becomes a shoe salesman."
  created: '2007-05-31 16:38:59'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I think brainwashing is a rather extreme term for the influence parents have
    on kids. \r\n\r\nLike Paul I was pretty lucky to have parents with wide ranging
    taste and natural curiosity - they took me traveling from a young age and exposed
    me to lots of different types of food, music, culture. But I know I was lucky
    in that regard.\r\n\r\nChoz - I used to know someone whose daughter joined a cult.
    She had to hire someone to kidnap her back, it was hideous. But I don't think
    that happens often - I know two OTHER people whose parents indoctrinated them
    into cults, now that is brainwashing for sure. One of them was Synenon (her dad
    was kinda high up in the pantheon there), I don't remember the other - some flakey
    group in Colorado."
  created: '2007-05-31 16:43:31'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>I am preparing for a worst-case scenario where he becomes the #3 sycophant
    to a cult leader, and wastes all his time, vision and resources to support some
    whacko\u2019s half-baked ideas, and is eliminated by a federal sting operation
    with out even a notable obituary.</em>\r\n\r\nWow, you really think he can make
    it as far as Speaker of the House?  ;-)"
  created: '2007-05-31 16:47:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I proudly indoctrinated my offspring in rockist ways from an early age. Things
    went well, took them to their first concert, Moist, in 1993 (aged 9 and 12). That
    was the grunge era, guitar rock on its way back, so the universe was unfolding
    as it was intended. But that was shortly before they discovered raves, techno,
    and hip-hop. If anyone ended up being brainwashed, it's me, as I've developed
    some taste for "their" music, which I generally find more interesting than today's
    guitar rock -- been there, done that. They've always been font people, the result
    of working with professional graphics software, on hand-me-down Macs with large
    font libraries, from an early age.
  created: '2007-05-31 16:50:37'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "Patty, I use the word in the lightest sense (Philip Larkin would say <a href=\"http://www.artofeurope.com/larkin/lar2.htm\">too
    light</a>). Perhaps indoctrination is more appropriate. OK, positive influence?\r\n\r\nNick,
    perhaps You wouldn't be so grateful had they caught on to Korn, Green day or Slipknot.\r\n\r\nAnd
    perhaps I shouldn't worry so much about my potential kids as I should worry becoming
    Mainstream Dad myself.\r\n\r\nStill, as I have no children I can plan all kinds
    of crazy schemes.\r\n\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2007-05-31 17:11:21'
- author:
    name: If Not4George
    picture: 112516
  body: "<cite>I am preparing for a worst-case scenario where he becomes the #3 sycophant
    to a cult leader, and wastes all his time, vision and resources to support some
    whacko\u2019s half-baked ideas, and is eliminated by a federal sting operation
    with out even a notable obituary.\r\n\r\nWow, you really think he can make it
    as far as Speaker of the House? ;-)</cite>\r\n\r\nLMFAO. Unfortunately it's too
    late for my brood. Now in their teen years, they regularly print out entire reports
    in display faces created by eastern european teenagers with names like \"Demontooth\"
    and \"Crazy Uncle.\" Oh if only they would even consider Comic Sans. If you'd
    seen the horrors that I've seen you would run, not walk, to the nearest bookstore
    and buy this book. You may want to pick up a book on sucessful brainwashing techniques
    while you're at it...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-31 17:19:44'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "> If anyone ended up being brainwashed, it\u2019s me, as I\u2019ve developed
    some taste for \u201Ctheir\u201D music\r\n\r\nI go to the Coachella Festival every
    year and the only part that feels modern to me is the techno tent, everything
    else feels pretty retro\u2026\r\n\r\npiece"
  created: '2007-05-31 17:22:15'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Speaker of the House? Ouch, nice. ;) Like I said, it is a mental excercise,
    to brace for the worst, or even, if possible, figure out how to prevent that sort
    of thing before hand. Meanwhile, I still feel compelled to to teach him to become
    more of a happy, mindless drone that I ever was.\r\n\r\nFredo, once I persuaded
    my mother to appreciate the relationship of the lyrics to the music, she became
    a moderate fan of Korn, and keeps the first album next to her Phil Ochs and Peter
    Paul and Mary. She even through some insights my way about how she relates to
    parts of herself she isn't completely comfortable with through it. This has followed
    with an interest in the Randy Rhoads-era Ozzy, and lately she beginning to think
    suspect might be more than Arialvetica in the sans genre of type.\r\n\r\nI hope
    I am still learning new tricks at her age."
  created: '2007-05-31 18:00:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I hate lyrics.\r\nBut if my kids don't, that's OK.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-31 18:07:10'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "I was named after Pat Benatars' daughter who was born 1 month before me.
    I'm a huge fan of classic rock and pop and i think it partly stemmed from being
    curious about the time and reasoning of my name.\r\n\r\nPerhaps you should name
    your kid Spiekermann."
  created: '2007-05-31 18:12:47'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I'm with you Hrant - in general I believe lyrics are too powerful. Doesn't
    stop me from writing them though\u2026\_:)\r\n\r\nps"
  created: '2007-05-31 18:47:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Too powerful? Well, I wouldn't mind that. What I mind is that they're so
    deathly predictable and boring. I can't remember any lyrics that surprised me
    (at least not after my teen years). I only like lyrics when they're part of the
    sound, like with Soul Coughing and goa. I goddam love goa.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-31 18:57:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Green day</em>\r\n\r\nMy son bought their Dookie CD, which was pretty
    good. (That was before he discovered Aphex Twin.) And last week I was quite moved
    watching them perform Working Class Hero on the American Idol finale. Ruben Studdard
    in a business suit singing Lucy in the Sky, well, that really blew my mind!"
  created: '2007-05-31 18:59:45'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I already decided to name my kids Agee and Sabon. Spiekermann is too much
    for a first name, and nobody would figure out if the name were just Erik.
  created: '2007-05-31 19:20:09'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Just make sure your kids hear someone sing with their own voice so they know
    everyone doesn''t sound like an electronic dog whistle. '
  created: '2007-05-31 19:28:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Just know that \"sabon\" is the word for soap in some cultures.\r\n\"Sabon,
    pass the sabon!\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-31 19:31:24'
- author:
    name: If Not4George
    picture: 112516
  body: "<cite>I goddam love goa.</cite>\r\n\r\nHrant, you're so... so... so 90's!
    Really man, step into the twenty-first century. Go pick up the new Mickey Avalon
    CD. Now those are some lyrics!"
  created: '2007-05-31 20:20:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "90s?! Now that's an insult!\r\n\r\nWhat I like about the (alleged) lyrics
    in trance-style\r\nmusic that they're stupid, but they know they're stupid.\r\nThe
    don't pretend to be \"deep\" - all deep thought does\r\nto music is bring it down.
    It's like how watching a soap\r\nopera in a language you don't know is so much
    better.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-31 20:35:47'
- author:
    name: If Not4George
    picture: 112516
  body: Hey, don't get me wrong, I like a good rave just as much as the next gal,
    and Soul Coughing is always on my playlist. But when it comes to lyrics I want
    something that yanks my chain, not senseless babble coming from the other room.
    And you're gonna have to do something drastic to get me to take back the 90's
    comment ;)
  created: '2007-05-31 21:03:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You know, if you meant 1890s then I'm more than cool with that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-31 21:11:59'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "Haha! My daughter begs me to put on Pink Floyd. She's 8. But she also asks
    for Raffi sometimes. \r\n\r\nOn the other end of things, I still love the music
    I grew up listening to at home (won't mention names, don't need the rolling eyes)
    and a lot of the stuff I loved as a teen I kinda think, muh.\r\n\r\nI love raffi,
    too. Especially when my kids sing it.\r\n\r\nType related: Once a week, my daughter
    has to write a response to a story she's read. Most of the time, she tries to
    rush through it, and she really doesn't have the neatest handwriting. The last
    time I started to get on her case for these really long descenders on the g and
    y. She said \"but mommy, it's nice and it does swish\" (making the motion with
    her hand). I smiled, but had to tell her to re-write parts of it that were close
    to illegible. \r\n:)"
  created: '2007-05-31 21:40:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Just tell her it's anti-typographic, I'm sure she'll come right around.\r\n\r\nOh,
    and Raffi rules.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-31 21:54:57'
- author:
    name: lherrou
    picture: 111141
  body: "Well, not to wander too far off track, but the O's on pedestals in one of
    the sample illustrations for <em>The Serif Fairy</em> seems to have come from
    Marc Simont's illustrations in Thurber's <em>The Wonderful O</em> (parents, read
    that one to your kids at least once a year!).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-01 01:16:54'
- author:
    name: lherrou
    picture: 111141
  body: ">> My daughter begs me to put on Pink Floyd. She\u2019s 8.\r\n\r\nLast year,
    when he was 9, my younger son got a gift card to Barnes and Noble. He spent most
    of it on two CDs from the music section, where he chose albums by Tom Petty and
    also The Doors.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-01 01:20:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Now Tom Petty, he has some semi-decent lyrics.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-01 01:30:06'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: This book looks delightful, and I am sure I will purchase it very soon. I
    actually have a large children's book collection, and I especially enjoy my section
    dedicated to typography, such as Van Allsburg's "The Z was Zapped." and Lane Smith's
    "Math Curse."
  created: '2007-06-01 01:34:24'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "My daughter is 17 months old, she's been dancing (!!!) to Kings of Leon,
    Pixies, Au Revoir Simone, CSS, The Long Blondes and such. I'm facinated...\r\nShe
    also seem to appreciate my collection of magazines (and she doesn't even rip the
    pages off), so it seems that we share that common interest/passion.\r\nI must
    admitt that I'd be kinda bummed if she doesn't turn out to have a strong sense
    of style/aestetics..."
  created: '2007-06-01 12:44:40'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<em>...Pixies...</em> \r\n\r\nThis would save me a lot of problems: Can I
    adopt her? Or is it out of the question?\r\n\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2007-06-01 14:52:54'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "yeah Pixies... especially the Doolittle album...\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-01 14:58:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Virginie, is there any music she's <cite>not</cite> dancing to at this point?
    Our little one would dance to the faintest hint of any music at all, including
    grocery store isle crap. Now though he seems to have gotten bored of that. Must
    be my bad influence.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-01 14:58:35'
- author:
    name: drduckling
  body: "lol, good point hrant...\r\nI caught her dancing to the commercials' music
    on TV...\r\n\r\nPS = I must precise : \"dancing\" as waving her arms and shaking
    her little diapered butt..."
  created: '2007-06-01 15:12:04'
- author:
    name: sayerhs
    picture: 112341
  body: "ooh yes, i loved \"type detective story\". really cool.\r\n\r\nIs it fair
    to play eugenics with kids? i mean c'mon. How can u decide what a good taste in
    music is?\r\n\r\nshreyas"
  created: '2007-06-01 18:47:47'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "You can \"brainwash\" your kids all you want, but once they hit puberty,
    they will suddenly become less enamored of your musical taste, maybe even hate
    it, even if they liked it when they were younger. It's nothing to do with the
    music per se, it's that your kids will associate it with \"being a kid\" and everything
    that means. Later on, as adults, they will rediscover your music and find it to
    be unaccountably beautiful. \r\n\r\nThat's my theory, anyway."
  created: '2007-06-01 19:38:27'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>Later on, as adults, they will rediscover your music and find it to be
    unaccountably beautiful.</em>\r\n\r\nAh, yes, the return of disco....  ;-)"
  created: '2007-06-01 19:52:56'
- author:
    name: Scott D
    picture: 112474
  body: "Music has long been a vehicle for rebelion. So if I force my daughter to
    listen to the Ramones, does that mean she'll run with a Chopin crowd in high school?\r\n\r\nI
    had the benefit of listening to my father's records growing up, which included
    Bowie, The Stones, Hendrix, and the like. I eventually stole all of those records,
    and now he listens to Andrea Boccelli. Go figure."
  created: '2007-06-01 20:57:05'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Just hope that doesn't happen to you!  :-(\r\n\r\nI grew up listening to
    everything from the Ink Spots (my parents' choice, not mine) to the Stones (when
    they played the blues), now it's mostly old Quebecois rock and minimalist classical
    (Cage/Glass/etc.)."
  created: '2007-06-01 21:41:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>does that mean she\u2019ll run with a Chopin crowd</em>\r\n\r\nOr that
    druggie Berlioz...\r\n\r\n<em>unaccountably beautiful</em>\r\n\r\n\"My\" music
    was beat, not ballad. However, my lad has \"rediscovered\" Humpie. Go figure.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Engelbert-Humperdinck-A-Man-Without-Lov-376653_5790.jpg]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: ChuckGroth
      picture: 110992
    body: '!'
    created: '2007-06-03 19:15:08'
  created: '2007-06-02 00:45:29'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "It's a little bit of a late reply, but I was out most of the day yesterday.\r\nHrant,
    maybe you'll find a better appreciation for lyrics if you don't see them as a
    whole, but break them down to little pieces? Music has always been very imortant
    to me (unlike for the rest of my family; combined they don't even own half of
    my collection & they only occasionaly listen to them whereas I \xE0lways have
    my headset on at home & never leave the house without my trusted MD walkman (the
    best goddamn buy I ever did)) & growing up I started paying more & more attention
    to the lyrics as well. There are still some I find close to poetry & others that
    sound worse each time you listen to them, but in almost every song, there's at
    least one thing that touches me. Not necessarely on an emotional level, but on
    a linguistic level as well. It can be something very plain, but described in a
    beautiful way (again I'm talking mere linguistics, no emotions attached). I write
    texts myself (mostly in English) which are probably best comparable with lyrics
    (without the music to accompany it). I've still kept the ones I wrote as a teenager
    & even though those are really predictable & overall crappy, there's always this
    one perfectly formulated sentence in each of them of which I am still proud to
    this day. Later on, I've started \"experimenting\" more with ambiguous texts &
    starting doing a lot of \"wordplay\". I have seen my texts evolving immensely
    in a few years time & I see the same evolution in the lyrics of some of my favourite
    bands. Right now, I'm completely consumed by the music of \"the Smashing Pumkins\"
    again (partially due to the upcoming new album) & the lyrics are mostly quite
    predictable, but there's an obvious evolution in them. The funny thing with them
    is that for a long time I misheard one part of the lyrics from \"Tonight, tonight\"
    & I was actually a bit disappointed when I read what they really said ;-)\r\nI
    have many CD's from groups that might have benifited from limiting themselves
    to being instrumental, but if you'll look closely enough, you'll usually find
    something to appreciate. I have a little notebook in which I write everything
    that comes to mind that I can -at one point- use in one of my texts & I've also
    started writing stuff down from existing lyrics hoping to try & make a \"compilation
    text\" with them someday. A lot of them kind of lose their impact in the existing
    lyrics & some of them might even sound bad or pointless on their own, but they
    can gain beauty from using them with other lyrics. It's just a matter of finding
    the beauty in the beast. Putting a puzzle together with pieces from different
    puzzles & trying to make a nice (albeit abstract) picture nevertheless.\r\nAs
    for learning to appreciate your parents' musical taste, I think I've developped
    a love for it that exceeds my moms... Like SD's dad, my mom has gone from the
    Stones to Boccelli-like stuff. She even comlains to me when I put the Stones on
    now (luckily she still likes Janis Joplin & Bob Dylan) ;-) It just goes to show
    that people have no definite taste & are always changing. I wouldn't call this
    evolving at this point 'cause it still seems to me that her taste is going downhill,
    but maybe I'll learn to appreciate it in time as well... Either way, I think people's
    personal tastes (not only in music) are always influenced by circumstances (mostly
    interests & the crowd you hang with), but as far a \"indoctrination\" goes, I
    don't think \xE0nything can survive puberty, it's just plain murder in the first
    degree ;-)"
  created: '2007-06-02 13:18:16'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "My son likes to have loud music in the car. He also likes me to \"race\"
    the other cars (pass them) and he is starting pressure tactics to get me to buy
    either a convertible or a jeep. He's 4. \r\n\r\nBut, I like to listen to CBC so
    I can get the news (I don't read a daily newspaper or watch tv) and he gets very
    annoyed with all the talking. Occasionally I switch over to the rock station,
    CHOM, but often that's a lot of yapping too. More often than not, the little voice
    comes from the back seat asking me to turn it up at the first musical advertisement.
    :/ I've tried explaining it's not music, to no avail. But he also gets creeped
    out by the Floyd my daughter likes. He says it sounds like bad-guy music. :)\r\n\r\nThe
    question of how much influence we have is really interesting. I think often the
    most powerful influence is the one we don't really notice. The other stuff, like
    hoping or trying to direct them to certain interests or abilities seem to most
    often have little effect, except in the residual \"my dad wanted me to be a doctor
    like him and I've been a disappointment to him ever since I decided to go into
    widget-making.\" \r\n\r\nI do think parents pass on deeper (bad word choice, I
    know) characteristics, the kind that become a large part of who they are and how
    they see themselves. The interests, the skills, career, etc. are, in my opinion,
    pretty irrelevant.  \r\n\r\nBad Saturday morning philosophizing. :)"
  created: '2007-06-02 15:22:38'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "<cite> Later on, as adults, they will rediscover your music and find it to
    be unaccountably beautiful. </cite>\r\n\r\nI'm with Mark, but to a certain extent,
    yes to Paul Simon no to Cliff Richard. \r\n\r\nHrant are you serious with: <cite>
    I hate lyrics </cite>? How can you hate lyrics?\r\n\r\n--N"
  created: '2007-06-02 15:30:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I hate people getting paid to emotionally\r\ntell me things I've already
    assimilated.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-02 15:40:56'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "I think most of the influence parents have on their children is based on
    genetics. They can have an influence on a different, 2nd hand kind of level as
    in choosing the school they send their kids off to (which I personally think can
    have a bigger impact on children since it's the place where they spend most of
    their character developing years & where they meet kindred spirits in friends),
    exposing their children to different cultures or -in a negative way- isolating
    them from other ideas, beliefs etc.. Like I mentioned in my first post here, I
    can't seem to find any parable interests in my family, not in taste, but not even
    in validations of these interests. Music is -again- a great example for this;
    everyone in my family is only interested in it as background music, but I can
    simply not do without. I've had a friend over last weekend (who doesn't share
    my taste in music) & I was actually already freaking out at the sheer thought
    of not being able to listen to my music (I'm not one to enforce my taste on others).
    I know it sounds like I'm a complete nutcase (which I \xE0m in certain ways),
    but my ears just feel \"naked\" without a headset. I can really enjoy just listening
    to music while doing nothing else, I experience every single note on a very high
    awareness scale. To get back to the family issue, my family just can't relate
    to this or any other of my interests (obsessions would probably be a better word
    in my case). I think I \"enherited\" this passion from all the friends I have
    (had). I still can't \"place\" my interst in typography though (even in my friends
    who share my graphic interests). Most people even get annoyed with it & think
    of me as some kind of freak (this word will haunt me for the rest of my life),
    so you can imagine my enthusiasm when I came across this site ;-)"
  created: '2007-06-02 15:52:29'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "What about poetry then, Hrant?\r\nLyrics do not necessarely have to be linked
    to telling you what to feel. Mostly they're telling you what other people feel
    & even if you can't appreciate that, there's still the linguistic part. I can
    give tons of examples of lyrics (or parts of them at least) that I find beautiful
    purely for the way they're phrased regardless of their content."
  created: '2007-06-02 15:57:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, I can't stand poetry either. Putting words into straight-jackets\r\njust
    so they accomodate euphony is demeaning to communication.\r\n\r\nGenetics: I massively
    agree, but sadly this is the sort of thing that\r\ncontemporary western society
    has become irrationally fearful of.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-02 16:28:38'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "I take it you're not a one-night-stands-person either then? ;-p\r\nI see
    the music/lyrics I like as someone you find attractive whether or not you know
    them. I don't believe in love at first sight in the most literal sense, but aesthetics
    don't have to have a deeper meaning in my opinion. If you think of it  as \"love\"
    at first SIGHT (emphasise the word sight & minimalize the love (body minus soul
    makes a different kind of love)), I think it also applies to music/lyrics (although
    it would have to called love at first sound ;-) ). In my emotional life I'm past
    that kind of \"love\" (but I have had my promiscuous years) & I am now looking
    for a little more substance, but I still find myself turning my head for some
    eyecandy on the street... I don't think this makes me shallow, I just draw a line
    between pure aesthetics & substance."
  created: '2007-06-02 17:15:22'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I'm with Hrant - I basically hate most lyrics, but for a different reason.
    Since I've written quite a few - I know what happens to your intentions when the
    public gets ahold of them. Mayhem.\r\n\r\nAlthough I traffic in words a lot, I
    also think that they are propaganda. I prefer instrumental music, painting and
    sculpture. Words are too precise.\r\n\r\npie"
  created: '2007-06-02 19:36:44'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: 'I''m not much for lyrics either, but occasionally someone will reach through
    my jaded disposition and grab my by the heart or soul with some words. Stevie
    Wonder''s "Evil" is an example. An anthem that makes me contemplate all the wasted
    lives and broken dreams. '
  created: '2007-06-02 19:51:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "After the classics, most new lyrics seem pretty banal, and the ones that
    aren't often come across as pretentious. It takes an effort to get into that space,
    but it can be worth it.\r\nI quite like the Shins, although at first I really
    didn't think it was my kind of music. But after I'd listened to it a bit (yeah,
    for no other reason than they copped my name), those quirky lyrics became interesting,
    not cringeworthy. "
  created: '2007-06-02 20:13:16'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: I see singing as an extra instrument & the lyrics as the music tabs for the
    voice. And to be honoust, I can enjoy a little nonsense jamming every now & then.
    Sure, the combination of a good packaging & a nice content is always better, but
    also a lot harder to come across. And isn't it nice to be surprised to find a
    piece of "eyecandy" also has a sweet interior? ;-) Besides, there's usually something
    sweet to find inside if you just look closely enough. Maybe sometimes it just
    takes the ability to take it out of context in order to appreciate it on a different
    level?
  created: '2007-06-02 21:26:02'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "About those \"classics\", I don't think \"love me do\" for instance could
    be considered great songwriting lyrical wise, but it works well within the context
    of the kind of music the Beatles made at that point. Music & lyrics are a reflection
    of the \"zeitgeist\" whether they're political or even personal. I have to admit
    today's lyrics often lack originality or are completely blown out of proportions,
    but even in all that pompous pretension some little treasures can be hidden. It's
    much like judging a book by its cover which is what most of us probably do (even
    if it happens on a subconscious level) & if you like the music, the chances you'll
    (learn to) appreciate the lyrics as well will increase. As far as that goes, I
    think we're all a little prejudiced, but the best you can do is to try and keep
    an open mind. It works both ways; if you like the exterior, it'll be easier to
    overcome any degree of disliking of the lyrics & a beautiful interior can help
    you look at the exterior in a different way. To use the analogy of love at first
    sight again: you want someone pretty to be a nice person (and \"love\" c\xE0n
    be quite blinding), but at the same time you can learn to love a beast purely
    based on its personality."
  created: '2007-06-02 21:42:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> After the classics, most new lyrics seem pretty banal\r\n\r\nOn the contrary,
    to me the classics are the lamest.\r\nThe Beatles for one make me ralph.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-03 05:02:54'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: If you're calling the Beatles "the classics"?-then you must be one of those
    whippersnappers.
  created: '2007-06-03 07:01:22'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "<cite> I hate people getting paid to emotionally\r\ntell me things I\u2019ve
    already assimilated. </cite>\r\n\r\nI don't know about that. I think the best
    writers, comedians and lyricists are those who tell us things about ourselves
    we already recognise but perhaps are unable to articulate. If someone tells me
    something completely novel and unique it won't be relevant to me, that's when
    lyrics are boring and useless. \r\n\r\n<cite> Yes, I can\u2019t stand poetry either.
    Putting words into straight-jackets just so they accomodate euphony is demeaning
    to communication. </cite>\r\n\r\nAgain, a good poet is someone who is able to
    work within established structure to tell a uniquely relevant story that is unrestricted
    by the structure. That's how good genre fiction works. I think you're saying that
    you can either communicate or sound good but a good poet does both, defying the
    apparent impossibility.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-03 12:12:40'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "> I know what happens to your intentions when the public gets ahold of them.\r\n\r\n>
    I think the best writers, comedians and lyricists are those who tell us things
    about ourselves we already recognise but perhaps are unable to articulate.\r\n\r\nIn
    case of comedians I totally agree with NicholasGross, but as for lyrics, prose
    & poetry I don't. Although I don't read books, I can enjoy reading a well written
    piece of text (eg. a review, an interview or even the posts here on Typophile)
    purely based on how \"fluently\" it reads. If I can identify with whatever is
    written this will only contribute to my appreciation, but I definitely don't see
    it as a must. It can be nice to see how other people phrase their feelings or
    opinions whether or not you share them.\r\nAs for poetry and lyrics, the identification
    also adds to its appreciation, but is no must either. I think poetry & lyrics
    are open to interpretation & you often read/hear in them what you want to (maybe
    the innate desire of human kind to identify themselves with others (birds of a
    feather, you know) is responsable for a selective hearing?). At least this is
    what I was tought in school (and the only thing I remembered) ;-)\r\nI like discussing
    lyrics to see how other people interprete them & as for my own texts, I don't
    really care what people read into them. I have to admit that I'm a little disappointed
    if they overlook all the wordplay and ambiguous elements I put into them, but
    I write lyrics for myself & no one else. I do share them with some people, but
    I always warn them they'll probably won't have a clue what they're about ;-) When
    writing, I always start with something personal, but usually put this in a universal
    context which might help people identify themselves with it a bit more.\r\nEven
    I'm not arrogant enough to state I understand lyrics or poetry, but I find most
    art to be overexposed to interpretations in general. I can enjoy something on
    a sheer aesthetic level without \"understanding\" it. This mostly applies to paintings,
    drawings & basically everything visual. Written words obviously invite people
    to interprete (visualize) them, but I've learned to appreciate them on a pure
    aesthetic level as well. Something can be purely pleasing to the ear, not only
    the music itself, but even the lyrics.\r\nAnd about my own selective hearing:
    when singing along to \"Tonight, tonight\", I still use my version ;-p\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-03 14:09:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I think the best writers, comedians and lyricists are those who\r\n> tell
    us things about ourselves we already recognise but perhaps\r\n> are unable to
    articulate.\r\n\r\nGood insight!* But in my case things on the radio or in music
    stores almost never qualify. Also, since I try to be interested in things beyond
    Me Myself & I it would be nice if they could do this concerning how I see other
    people, or society - but they never manage that either. For one thing, there's
    virtually no talk of what I might call \"the darkness\". The stuff one is allowed
    to hear (Freedom of Speech my arse) is always squeeky-clean.\r\n\r\nBut remember,
    I have nothing against anybody else liking lyrics.\r\n\r\n* It seems you're echoing
    my theory about the popularity of certain types of music (like rap) among a certain
    demographic (like underpriviledged youth): because they're not able to use language
    well, they blast music that expresses their strong (but generally extremely simple)
    emotions.\r\n\r\n> a good poet does both\r\n\r\nNo. Or I haven't encountered a
    good poet.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-03 14:51:45'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "\"Fly me to the moon -- let me play among the stars,\r\nI wanna know what
    spring is like on Jupiter and Mars.\r\nIn other words: hold my hand.\r\nIn other
    words: baby, kiss me.\"\r\n\r\nYou trying to tell me that ain't beautiful?"
  created: '2007-06-03 15:50:29'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: Someone's old enough to know what the classics are.
  created: '2007-06-03 15:52:29'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Old enough at least to have watched the closing credits of Evangeleon more
    than a few times.
  created: '2007-06-03 15:59:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Chuck, enough about me. Let's talk about brainwashing!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-03 16:00:07'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "How about this?\r\n\r\nSomewhere hidden in my dying will\r\nI have written
    a part\r\nto leave you my heart\r\nif you are able to find it\r\nand willing enough
    to keep it as a reminder\r\nthat I always have and love you still."
  created: '2007-06-03 16:05:50'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: Dying will; it even has darkness
  created: '2007-06-03 16:07:13'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "When my son was five, he and I were driving somewhere and I was listening
    to the classical music station. \"Moonlight Sonata\" came on.\r\nFrom the carseat
    in back, I hear, \"I love Beethoven.\" I almost had to pull over.\r\n\r\n\r\nNow,
    of course, he listens to stuff I don't understand. His ears are pierced and he
    dyes his hair funny. But every once in a while I catch him groovin to Jeff Buckley
    or the Doors or Nat King Cole before he catches himself and calls me a dork."
  created: '2007-06-03 16:09:13'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "<em>I hate people getting paid to emotionally\r\ntell me things I\u2019ve
    already assimilated.</em>\r\n\r\nI agree to a point, hrant, but I think it's also
    a pretty cynical view. While, yeah, we already know and have felt or at least
    understand the feeling being expressed in lyrics, another way to look at it might
    be to say, \"Other people feel like I do. I'm not alone.\" \r\n\r\nHaving said
    that, I cringe at inanity and often find myself feeling more embarrassed for a
    singer when I think, \"Really? THAT's as deeply as you can feel? THAT's as eloquently
    as you can say that?\""
  created: '2007-06-03 16:16:21'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: So in essence, lyrics can really annoy me at times, too!
  created: '2007-06-03 19:11:21'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "4. poetic qualities however manifested: the poetry of simple acts and things.
    \r\n5. poetic spirit or feeling: The pianist played the prelude with poetry. \r\n6.
    something suggestive of or likened to poetry: the pure poetry of a beautiful view
    on a clear day. \r\n\r\n\r\nHow about the poetry of a 20' croc leaping out of
    the water to grab a wildabeast drinking at the edge of a river.\r\n\r\nThat said,
    there are some people who are clever with words. Like Jack Vance, a sci-fi writer
    I enjoy. Some of his sentences are like poetry. I can read them over and over.\r\n\r\nAs
    for kids, I can't say I'm an expert, but I've seen them around. \r\n\r\nWhen kids
    are throwing a tantrum in the line at Walmart, I think it is the parents that
    need to be brainwashed:\r\n\r\n\"Your eyelids are getting heavy. When I snap my
    fingers you will go into a trance, (snap). Repeat after me, 'I will not make any
    more babies.' -then you will give me all the money in your wallet. And when you
    wake up the only thing that you will remember is to make no more babies.\""
  created: '2007-06-03 20:23:40'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "Jeez... that was YOU(insert interobang)?!\r\nI want my $85 back.  Wait a
    minute. No. It was worth it."
  created: '2007-06-03 20:34:37'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "Well, I love lyrics - if I like them, and they go well with the music, I
    can hop into the emotion. I am not too good in making my own lyrics to spice up
    instrumentals :-))\r\n\r\nMy two daughters love everything that has melody, currently,
    although my older gal (she turns four now), tends to like my music, which is rather
    Metal and Rock, I guess. She surprised my by totally liking Rebellion a few weeks
    ago, singing along at the top of her voice. So, a catchy refrain has advantages
    :-))\r\n\r\nConcerning type, I have some posters in my house, and since children
    ask a lot of questions, I usually tell them something about my work. However,
    since both of them are still illiterate, I guess it's too early to start with
    typeface distinction :-)"
  created: '2007-06-04 11:09:17'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I was angry with my friend:\r\nI told my wrath, my wrath did end.\r\nI was
    angry with my foe;\r\nI told it not, my wrath did grow.\r\n\r\nAnd I water'd it
    in fears,\r\nNight & morning with my tears;\r\nAnd I sunned it with my smiles\r\nAnd
    with soft deceitful wiles.\r\n\r\nAnd it grew both day and night,\r\nTill it bore
    an apple bright;\r\nAnd my foe beheld it shine,\r\nAnd he knew that it was mine,\r\n\r\nAnd
    into my garden stole\r\nWhen the night had veil'd the pole:\r\nIn the morning
    glad I see\r\nMy foe outstretch'd beneath the tree.\r\n\r\nW. Blake"
  created: '2007-06-04 14:22:49'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "lonely is the heart\r\nwhose secrets are untold\r\nyou'll be lost before
    you're loved\r\nbut that's the way it goes\r\nout of sight, out of the mind\r\nfriends
    will come and go\r\nat the blink of an eye\r\nand it makes me wonder to myself\r\nwhat
    makes a simple goodnight\r\nthe dreaded farewell\r\n\r\nwe measure time\r\nby
    the people that we've known\r\nbut with friends like mine\r\nit takes a miracle
    just to grow old\r\nand yet I just don't get it\r\nhow I can still feel lonely
    now\r\nwith better friends than ever\r\nmore than ever lost in doubt\r\nis it
    any wonder\r\nthat I think I've lost count\r\n\r\nled by logic\r\nI have come
    to understand\r\nthat wishful thinking\r\nwill only make a desperate man\r\nshutter
    to think of the day he finds\r\na good enough reason\r\nto take his own life\r\nso
    have you ever wondered to yourself\r\nhow much it takes\r\nto turn a good day
    into a living hell"
  created: '2007-06-04 14:58:27'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "    This Is Just to Say\r\n \r\n\r\n        I have eaten\r\n        the plums\r\n
    \       that were in\r\n        the icebox\r\n\r\n        and which\r\n        you
    were probably\r\n        saving\r\n        for breakfast\r\n\r\n        Forgive
    me\r\n        they were delicious\r\n        so sweet\r\n        and so cold \r\n\r\n
    \  William Carlos Williams\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-04 15:24:33'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "We could go on for ages like this, but I'm not sure the rest here appreciates
    our posts...\r\nIf they do, I'll be more than happy to post some more ;-)"
  created: '2007-06-04 15:49:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/europe/6721909.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-05 17:13:08'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Are you challenging us, Hrant?\r\nToo bad I don't speak Spanish, let alone
    write it ;-)"
  created: '2007-06-05 18:04:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Indeed - challenging you to resist the urge to make things explicit.\r\nTo
    promote, relish and leverage ambiguity and interpretation.\r\nFor example to make
    typefaces, not take photographs.\r\nPreferably text fonts, not display fonts.\r\n\r\nYes,
    we need everything in this world; but some things more than others.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-05 18:27:51'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Was everything I posted so far too explicit?\r\nI have other -more ambiguous-
    things to quote from as well ;-)\r\nAs for typefaces, I'm just an admirer, so
    I'll stick to making display fonts for now since it's a hell of a lot easier.\r\nBesides,
    screw supply & demand... I make things for myself & I demand other things than
    the average person ;-)"
  created: '2007-06-05 19:21:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Believing that the machiavellian spirit of the original topic should be nurtured
    (as one would nurture a child :-) I've dug up a couple of things that our 7-year-old
    (who was 6 at the time) drew. I had been doing some letterpress testing of a funny
    ink* and brought home some ampersands; Hrad asked for a print, and proceeded to
    trace the \"skeleton\" on it. When he showed it to me I said it was very nice,
    but he should also try to trace the outsides. :->  He proceeded to do so, and
    even though the quality was lower** I commended him heartily.\r\n\r\n* http://typophile.com/node/21340
    _\r\nFrom July 21, 2006.\r\n\r\n** Understandably - it's harder to wrap your head
    around.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Hrad-amps_4555.gif]\r\n\r\nSome
    months later -during which time I had given him a Chinese calligraphy book- we
    were watching some Korean war epic on TV, and the talk turned to Japanese, at
    which point Hrad said he knew Japanese. I called him a liar, at which point he
    disappeared for a few minutes and came back with the following:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Hrad-jap_4605.jpg]\r\n\r\nWhen
    I asked him why he had used outlines instead of a skeleton like they\r\ndo in
    school and stuff, he said it was because he knew I like outlines.  :->\r\n\r\nSo
    there, skeptics!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-05 19:25:36'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: That's a beautiful story. But you brainwashed him into the outlines!
  created: '2007-06-05 19:30:10'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Except for the brainwashing part maybe (which is related to the original
    post), I don't really see any point in your story, Hrant... But I've had a l\xF2\xF2\xF2t
    to drink yesterday & practically haven't slept in days, so maybe it's just me
    %-)\r\nWhat does the Chinese symbol stand for anyway?\r\nBTW, I actually like
    the outlined ampersand best, but maybe that's just me again?"
  created: '2007-06-06 11:09:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I don\u2019t really see any point in your story\r\n\r\nWhat, you need it
    set to music?\r\n\r\n> What does the Chinese symbol stand for anyway?\r\n\r\nIt's
    \"Japanese\". I have no idea what it means.\r\nBut it's funny that there's a \"J\"
    in there!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-07 16:02:56'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Just checking if there was a point to it at all (and I'm still not sure if
    there is, so if there is indeed one, I'd be much obliged if you could/would translate
    it to music) ;-p\r\nThe Chinese/Japanese mistake was my bad. Should've read it
    more carefully before commenting.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-07 16:23:32'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: I think the point was to entertain with a cautionary tale of a child's easy
    impressionability. It is the only post I've read aloud (to friends a with an infant)
    from this thread, and then we talked about children's desires to please parent,
    so I suppose it works.
  created: '2007-06-08 00:52:55'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: it was a touching story. above my desk at my college office i have an incredibly
    sensitive, beautifully interpretted drawing of the mona lisa, done by my oldest
    son when he was 5. i mean, it slays me. i show it to my college students in my
    drawing for graphics classes, and tell them, "this is what i'm looking for - this
    depth of interpretation." many are intimidated.
  created: '2007-06-08 02:21:07'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Are we brainwashed?\r\n\r\nWho are THEY?\r\n\r\npeas and carrots"
  created: '2007-06-08 05:22:45'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Well, if we're going to share parent/children stories, here's one from when
    I was a kid...\r\nI used to make a lot of drawings for my family which they usually
    displayed on their fridge. When my aunt once told me I couldn't make too many
    drawings for her anymore since she was running out of \"fridge space\", I told
    her: \"Just do what my mom does & throw some away\". Apparantly the overdose of
    drawings I gave my mom somehow desensitized her for any emotional value of my
    artwork. To get back at her, I never got that \"I love mom\" tattoo ;-p"
  created: '2007-06-08 16:45:46'
- author:
    name: sayerhs
    picture: 112341
  body: "i am NEVER having kids. \r\n\r\nshreyas"
  created: '2007-06-08 19:00:53'
date: '2007-05-31 15:28:39'
title: Time to brainwash the kids again

---
