---
author:
  name: mike_duggan
  picture: 109519
body: "Roger has been busy lately blogging about onscreen type. It might be of interest
  here\r\n\r\nhttp://www.rogerblack.com/\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Off-list I've been asked if Roger's entry regarding the <A HREF=\"http://www.rogerblack.com/blog/getting_in_bed_with_type\">opening
    up of the EOT format</A> is accurate. \r\n\r\nBasic answer is yes. The Embedded
    OpenType format (EOT) is essentially a wrapper to an OpenType font, and we're
    in the process of documenting the format. We hope to provide a draft to the W3C
    fonts working group by mid June. In addition, and equally important is the Microtype
    compression which was licensed from Agfa. Monotype Imaging are documenting the
    compression algorithm with a view to licensing it free of charge for web based
    implementers (browsers and authoring tools).\r\n\r\nEOTs have been around in one
    form or another for 15 years, and with respect to the Web most font creators have
    documented their policy towards the format in their EULAs. We\u2019d hope that
    opening up the format would have a positive impact on type designers approach
    to the format.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-31 19:57:33'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>We\u2019d hope that opening up the format would have a positive impact
    on type designers approach to the format.</em>\r\n\r\nIt will."
  created: '2007-05-31 20:43:16'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "The problem is that the only folks that get that upset about the 'limitations'
    of web typography are those in the graphic design and type realms.\r\n\r\nSince
    the web is really made for and by pretty much everyone, this isn't THAT much of
    a concern.\r\n\r\nNot that I wouldn't rejoice and embrace an embeddable font standard
    that will be supported by many web browsers and many type foundries--I just ain't
    holding my breath. ;o)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-31 21:47:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Darrel, that's pretty much saying fonts aren't important.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-31 21:58:20'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Well, this isn't on the front page of the times or even slashdot, but it
    might be big news to us.\r\n\r\nLets draw a parallel. There are a lot of things
    that people want to do with electronics, as soon as there are better storage than
    today's batteries. Those in the biz are constantly trying to find a new technology
    to hold electricity, and every breakthrough is nice, even the little ones. So
    is every step forwards really a major concern? Not to me, my thing is type. But
    I'd still love a phone that needed charging once a month.\r\n\r\nI would also
    happen to like better type on the web. Open, css-friendly, <strong>non-proprietary</strong>,
    cross-server, cross-browser consistent type. And all those who don't care much
    will have an opportunity to do more to express themselves.\r\n\r\nThis isn't everything,
    but it is a step forward. Interestingly, from one of the companies that helped
    create the problem in the first place. If all the other browsers take the bait
    to code in retrieval of EOT's, it will be a trivial step for the FOSS fanatics
    to implement allowing non-wrapped fonts too. The css standard is already there,
    waiting. Then this long running joke will end."
  created: '2007-05-31 22:45:54'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>If all the other browsers take the bait to code in retrieval of EOT\u2019s,
    it will be a trivial step for the FOSS fanatics to implement allowing non-wrapped
    fonts too.</cite>\r\n\r\nWould that even be necessary? There are some advantages
    to using EOT other than the DRM, and just because the DRM options are there does
    not mean that web developers actually need to use them. From the radical libertarian
    perspective of the FSF I can see why just running the file through gzip and uploading
    it to the server is an improvement, but for most users and developers I doubt
    that the involvement of EOT matters much."
  created: '2007-05-31 23:49:58'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "The independent anaysis we've done shows that a good proportion of commercial
    font vendors allow \"embedding\" as defined in the OpenType spec, but none allow
    \"zipping\" as currently proposed. \r\n\r\nSo the difference boils down to legal
    access to commerical fonts and public domain fonts with EOT vs only public domain
    fonts with the zip scheme. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2007-05-31 23:56:54'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "My independent analysis says, not 'none'. Anyway, this is a good step forward,
    something that might have been lost in my last post.\r\n\r\nDue to the way Free
    Software works, FOSS fonts will become more and more relvant as time goes by,
    regardless of our tastes for it. OFL fonts can be served by virtually any method
    described above or in the W3C's recommendations."
  created: '2007-06-01 01:50:15'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "If free/open fonts get that popular, you\u2019ll see the foundries tripping
    over themselves to license fonts for web use at low prices and with very agreeable
    licenses. Monotype owns thousands of classic fonts that could be licensed for
    online distribution at dirt cheap prices because there\u2019s so little overhead
    with digital sales, and could easily treat most of the old fonts as cash cows
    and just dump them on the market at rock-bottom prices. Indie types might also
    become great sellers in such an environment, because companies that can\u2019t
    afford tens-of-thousands of dollars for a standout printed piece could easily
    drop a few thousand on a nice website developed from a template and given a nice
    standout look with great type. The huge volume of sales that open web type could
    generate have the potential to create a sales volume that will bring font prices
    to bargain-basement levels. "
  created: '2007-06-01 03:18:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, one really great thing about this is that it enables the support of\r\non-screen
    rendering schemes unavailable (I mean via HTML) otherwise:\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/manademo/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-01 05:07:59'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: "If there were a practical, cross platform/browser way to embed fonts, people
    would use it, I guarantee it. Almost any site of any significance on the internet
    uses some hacks somewhere to use custom type, whether it be images or flash. If
    the crusty old foundries won't license their type this way, people will use fonts
    from foundries like mine ;)\r\n\r\nThe reality is that in not too many years,
    almost all type will be read off of screens (even signage and packaging will be
    configurable displays, as horrible as that may be). Either the type industry will
    get with the program and figure out a business model that works for screens, or
    they will be marginalized and someone new will figure it out. Hopefully typography
    won't suffer on the next generation of screens like it has on the web.\r\n\r\nIt
    will be interesting to see of OSS fonts take off. Free fonts (as in liberty and
    beer) have been around for some time, and the quality has been pretty weak up
    to this point. My view is that OSS fonts will fill a niche for people who need
    letters to communicate, but can't match their shirt to their pants. Indie foundries
    will get even more business through long-tail type aggregators like My Fonts.
    But there will always be a market for people who know that type is a powerful
    differentiator for their brand, and would rather pay for something that other
    people can't afford. These fonts are expensive enough that their owners will be
    able to spider the web and enforce their IP in any markets that matter.\r\n\r\nPhotographers
    have been freaking out for a long time about people on the web using their images.
    It turns out that it just doesn't matter. More dangerous than the pirates are
    all the kids with digicams. And these kids aren't afraid of putting their huge
    images on Flickr. The days where big companies could sit on big stacks of old
    crap are over. People are going to want new, fresh stuff, and the people who matter
    aren't going to get it from pirating old garbage. They are going to buy from people
    like me ;) through aggregators/filters who will carry the little guys' stuff with
    creator friendly terms like Veer."
  created: '2007-06-01 05:42:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">My independent analysis says, not \u2018none\u2019. \r\n\r\nCare to name
    the vendor? "
  created: '2007-06-01 06:25:45'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Sii\r\n\r\n!Exclamachine, for one. I sell more fonts directly than through
    a third party, at the moment. I'm on your registry. At this point all my works
    are flagged \"embeddable\", and the commercial ones come with preset or custom
    choices in licensing, always allowing electronic embedding. A quick scan of Christian's
    post suggest that Betatype is open for all sorts of new ideas as well.\r\n\r\nJpad\r\n\r\nFree/open
    software works. It isn't a cure-all for \"nasty old capitalism\", and isn't supposed
    to be. Nevertheless it has taken an important place in all the areas of \"utility
    software\" like OS's, databases and such because people want an open, fixable,
    solution that no one can take away from them for essential, unglamorous tasks.\r\n\r\nThe
    thing about free/open is that it doesn't have to catch fire to \"succeed\". The
    way the licenses work, generally, something can sit there untouched for days or
    years. One day someone needs a quick project for class, then it gets suddenly
    polished. Now it is still there, only better. It is something like all the history
    of arts that we can still draw on for inspiration, before the copyright drift
    in the 20th century. Every free/open piece of software never goes away, it just
    sits there on the web, and the whole body grows.\r\n\r\nWorkhorse text fonts are
    one of those things that free/open will take the place of very well. There are
    several now that aren't too bad, and  the ability to web-embed them will make
    development all the more worthwhile.\r\n\r\nSeveral things have held the development
    of free/open fonts back, but the free/open culture is now turning its collective
    eyes this way:\r\n\r\nDespite the  US government's consideration of type as non-creative
    work, the designers disagree, and have been reluctant to give away their babies.
    The OFL was created to specifically mitigate that feeling. And similar sentiments
    in other art fields created the successful Creative Commons.\r\n\r\nThe mainstream
    users are currently looking at non-proprietary software as a \"cool thing\". They
    don't like it when a song they buy won't play on their walkman, and have begun
    to wonder about other software, and what they can do about it. While DIY isn'tt
    for everyone, neither was coding Linux, but its caught on in servers quite well,
    and somehow \"long-tail\" became a term that needs no introduction!\r\n\r\nMicrosoft
    no longer gives away some of the most practical font files available. (Not with
    purchase of Windows, but the old free IE font pack.)To keep things cheap yet kosher,
    some businesses are looking for new solutions. This has lead to the beginnings
    of paid development of free/open works.\r\n\r\nPatents restricted some of the
    most broadly supported font formats from appealing to FOSS zealots. Many of those
    patents are running out. Simultaneously, the free/open community is maturing beyond
    the zealotry stage.\r\n\r\nSo, (important) free/open fonts are coming. Demand
    has risen, and free data persists. I am not trying to evangelize FOSS. I am assuming
    that all things fluctuate; if so, and free/open never diminishes, then it must
    be growing at some rate."
  created: '2007-06-01 07:41:23'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "SII? \"We\u2019d hope that opening up the format would have a positive impact
    on type designers approach to the format.\"\r\n\r\nCan you please explain how?\r\n\r\nCC
    \" Open, css-friendly, non-proprietary, cross-server, cross-browser consistent
    type.\"\r\n\r\nCan You please explain how?"
  created: '2007-06-01 13:11:37'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Choz, I was not trying to belittle free software, just pointing out that I
    doubt the FOSS crowd will have much of an objection to using the EOT format to
    begin with.
  created: '2007-06-01 14:52:34'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Darrel, that\u2019s pretty much saying fonts aren\u2019t important.\"\r\n\r\nThey
    really aren't outside our sphere. \"Is the type readable?\" is pretty much the
    only major requirement that most of the internet cares about. And, even then,
    that consideration is often tossed aside.\r\n\r\nAgain, I'm all for being able
    to use more typefaces on the web. It would be a benefit to all. That said, there
    are just way too many stars that need to properly align for this to go anywhere
    anytime soon. \r\n\r\n\"If free/open fonts get that popular, you\u2019ll see the
    foundries tripping over themselves to license fonts for web use at low prices
    and with very agreeable licenses.\"\r\n\r\nMaybe. Though, at this point, the only
    folks that seem to really push for custom fonts on the web are the ad agencies
    working on major brand campaigns. As they also see fit to turn the web into pure
    Flash, there is little reason for them to need another font embedding method.
    ;0)\r\n\r\n\"The huge volume of sales that open web type could generate\"\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure there would be a huge volume of sales. Seems to me that it's a fallacy
    akin to the RIAA thinking that people would flock to re-purchase all their music
    they had purchased on CD in DRMed MP3 format as well. The difference is that music
    is a mass-market while font sales is still relatively small in comparison.\r\n\r\nThat
    said, there's always the scrapbooking market...\r\n\r\nScreens are of such a low
    quality that the details of a particular corporate typeface are lost to the point
    that I'd find it hard to justify paying for yet-another license for the font vs.
    just using Verdana and Images for any important custom-set headlines."
  created: '2007-06-01 15:33:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> \u201CIs the type readable?\u201D is pretty much the only\r\n> major requirement
    that most of the internet cares about.\r\n\r\nI'm sorry but this is quite shallow.\r\n\r\n>
    Screens are of such a low quality that ...\r\n\r\nWhen you factor in anti-aliasing
    (I mean\r\ndone properly) then a whole world opens up.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-01 15:50:48'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">!Exclamachine, for one. \r\n\r\nI think you misread my post - do you allow
    your commercial fonts to be attached to web pages in a zip file? Can you send
    me a pointer to your EULA? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-01 16:17:06'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: "There is only thing that needs to happen for fonts to become useful on the
    web. The three major html renderering engines need to allow pages to reference
    fonts in a consistent way. My preference would be TrueType files that can be referenced
    inside of css.\r\n\r\nI'm sure that this is much harder than is sounds, just from
    a security and sandboxing standpoint. Fonts can do a lot to screw up operating
    systems. There would probably have to be a separate layer for rendering type that
    isn't so close to the OS. The worst thing would be for remote web pages to be
    able to install fonts on your machine, even if it were just temporary."
  created: '2007-06-01 16:26:30'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>My preference would be TrueType files that can be referenced inside
    of css.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhy TrueType? So foundries can go back to selling truetype
    <em>and</em> Opentype versions of fonts?"
  created: '2007-06-01 16:58:37'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Couldn't they be TT flavored OT?\r\n\r\nI'm also curious about your EULA
    Choz."
  created: '2007-06-01 17:39:05'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Christian's 'preference' mirrors that of the Opera CTO. TTF (or OT TTF) basically
    have a better cross-platform story than OT CFF. People are going to want to include
    one font that will work on Windows (down to Win 9x) Mac OS (8 and up), Linux,
    Windows Mobile, Symbian devices, etc., and many of these don't natively support
    OT CFF or PS T1. \r\n\r\nNot to re-state the obvious but there are drawbacks to
    raw TTFs, specifically licensing and file size (esp. for East Asian).    "
  created: '2007-06-01 17:54:08'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I\u2019m sorry but this is quite shallow.\"\r\n\r\nYes, it is. I completely
    agree. But, that is how it is. Show your corporate serif text typeface set at
    11px alongside Georgia set at 11px on your website to your customer base and I
    bet you'd get a huge chunk of 'huh?' responses.\r\n\r\nWould font embedding increase
    Amazon's bottom line? I doubt it, but, honestly, I dunno. It'd certainly be an
    interesting thing to study. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-01 20:07:34'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "SII? \u201CWe\u2019d hope that opening up the format would have a positive
    impact on type designers approach to the format.\u201D\r\n\r\nBerlow: Can you
    please explain how?\r\n\r\nI think a few type designers/vendors don't like EOT
    purely because it is currently an MS proprietary technology and not supported
    cross-platform.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si \r\n"
  created: '2007-06-01 21:06:08'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: "> a huge chunk of \u2018huh?\u2019 responses.\r\n\r\nIt depends who your
    clients are. There are a lot of companies that really do get branding and the
    power of typography. These are the people who buy typefaces. They are buying type
    for the web right now for gifs and flash, and they would buy more of it if embedding
    worked."
  created: '2007-06-01 21:38:25'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: "it should be as simple as this:\r\n\r\n<code>\r\nh1 { font-family: url(\"PillGothic300mg-Black.ttf\"),Helvetica,Arial;
    }\r\n</code>"
  created: '2007-06-01 21:43:59'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"It depends who your clients are. There are a lot of companies that really
    do get branding and the power of typography.\"\r\n\r\nTypography is important.
    A specific font for body text, not so much. At least not in the eyes of the end-user.\r\n\r\n\"These
    are the people who buy typefaces. They are buying type for the web right now for
    gifs and flash, and they would buy more of it if embedding worked.\"\r\n\r\nMaybe.
    Hopefully we'll get a chance to find out down the road. ;0)"
  created: '2007-06-01 22:57:52'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Jpad- I wasn't meaning to champion FOSS either. I haven't the inclination
    or the knowledge. The FOSS fanatical types will not settle for free (in cost)
    methods to accomplish this goal. The main thing keeping them from calling for/developing
    a solution was that no \"open\" browser support a way for fonts to be served into
    a web page, even if they were licensed appropriately. Christian is right, there
    is a lot that it entails in the sandbox department, and also with integrating
    it in web dev/management tools.\r\n\r\n<em>Another interesting thought: To go
    into Firefox needn't the methodology be GPL'ed, not on indefinite loan from a
    private interest?</em>\r\n \r\nAnyway, the radical libertarians are out there,
    and this will be another step closer to making fonts as simple as serving an image
    or a text file.</em>\r\n\r\nChristian- it should be as simple as this:\r\n\r\n<code>h1
    { font-family: url(PillGothic300mg-Black.ttf); }</code>\r\n\r\nOr, at least start
    that way. The W3C likes to write imaginary software then wait for someone to make
    it, and they've come up with a pretty extensive method of defining the font, including
    degrading back to plainer fonts, real and emulated variants, small caps and all
    sorts of stuff. If I recall, Microsoft's new method of font substitutions in Vista
    is based on a portion of this, so it has some viability, too.\r\n\r\nDavid- Simon
    explained the gist of it, but I'll break it down a bit.\r\nOpen - consisting of
    fully-public documented procedures\r\ncss friendly - conforming to the xhtml font-face
    and css @font-face rules of the W3CC specs.\r\nnon proprietary - not controlled,
    dictated or dependent on components of code controlled by private parties through
    licensing agreements.\r\ncross server - Works consistently with any full-featured
    software that  spits out web pages.\r\ncross browser - Works in every major current
    pc browser, and <em>could</em> work in even more, or at least, not break them.\r\nconsistent
    type-What the designer makes looks, by default, virtually identical in default
    view, standard browser windows, and can be manipulated (zoomed, etc.) like \"normal\"
    text.\r\n\r\nDarrel- For the moment you are largely right. But... screen resolution
    has and will continue to improve. The population will continue to move online,
    and bring more arts and culture with it. Computers will get faster, bandwidth
    and storage cheaper, font rendering software will improve. Every one of these
    factors will make a more viable market for any digital media, including fonts.
    The main money maker will be display fonts which stand to improve in the screen-arena
    the most, and are easy to appreciate to designers and lay-folk alike.\r\n\r\nFor
    big companines, rendering display text in the native browser space instead of
    through a plug in and a hack will reduce costs. They can keep accessibility and
    still market themselves. They can have dynamic headlines and such that really
    stand out, but managed without adding another layer of re-rendering graphics or
    such.\r\n\r\nYour comments give me an interesting line of thought about font-on-demand
    services to serve to others' pages. Hmm...\r\n\r\nSii- I think I read correctly,
    but grossly misunderstood the post. I've since re-read it a few times.\r\n\r\n<em>\"but
    none allow \u201Czipping\u201D as currently proposed.</em>\"\r\n\r\nI think this
    means \"zipping\" as currently possible and very rarely done.\r\n\r\nI just could
    not get my brain around that. Why would someone want to zip the file to transmit
    it as an element of presentation? Most font files are small, when considered as
    media, and the wrapping in a generic container would only make the user unsure
    of what they are getting. Additionally, if they were downloaded and the user knew
    what to do with them, they still have to go through the process of installation
    and restart of the browser. As I see it, that is a non-solution.\r\n\r\nAs a designer,
    I would be helping my clients make bad web sites if I endorsed this method, with
    the obvious risks to my work.\r\n\r\nThis is essentially a survey that asks, \"do
    you prefer doing something this one way, or in the worst possible way?\" Yes,
    I'll take the former.\r\n\r\nWhat I thought it meant was that there was a proposal
    to run simple zip-style compression on a font, with the typical extension change
    or similar, so that it would be rendered immediately inside the web, but with
    a slightly smaller transmission size and isolated from the OS. Sure it would be
    rather trivial security to my work, but it would be of great benefit to the consumer.
    In which case I would have to say that it is appealing.\r\n\r\n\r\nThe topical
    section of my Pre-formed EULAs goes like so (emphasis added):\r\n\r\n<code>The
    output of the software may be embedded in any manner of portable document or <em>interactive
    electronic document</em>, assuming a reasonable, <em>common level</em> of care
    is exercised to prevent extraction and/or installation of the font data.</code>\r\n\r\nThis
    leaves a lot of leeway for the most basic systems of presenting the text electronically.
    Since there was no cross-platform solution when I wrote that, and still isn't,
    I decided to gloss things. Remember I do not consider anything that requires the
    client's end-user's interaction as truly \"embedded\".\r\n\r\nOver half of what
    I've licensed this year closed with a custom EULA, and no end-user has yet asked
    for zip-link access. When I offer a license's full text to them prior to sale,
    they are told to reply if there is something else they want or need, both in my
    correspondence and in the license itself. Every sale has been through contact
    with just me, and no one has yet requested it. I'm open to it.\r\n\r\nBTW one
    \"vendor\" that I thought of that currently buys fonts and then serves them as
    links is SIL. (Clarification: SIL is a font purchaser from whatever vendor(s)
    allowed them to post the fonts as zips.)\r\n\r\nTiff- The ones I linked to a while
    back are slightly out of date. Once Myfonts figures out how to handle the leading
    !- in my font names, the new EULAs will go up, with the products. Any day. Really.
    Like soon."
  created: '2007-06-02 01:30:53'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Another interesting thought: To go into Firefox needn\u2019t the methodology
    be GPL\u2019ed, not on indefinite loan from a private interest?</cite>\r\n\r\nAccording
    to Mozilla.org:\r\n<em>All of the code which makes up the core Mozilla products
    is licensed under a MPL/GPL/LGPL tri-license or a licence compatible with all
    three of those (e.g. the BSD licence).</em>\r\n\r\nGiven those license terms I
    doubt that there will be any trouble getting Firefox support. Microsoft has gotten
    along just fine with the BSD license for decades, so and Microsoft code could
    simply be released under a BSD license. But Microsoft doesn\u2019t even need to
    write the code, it just needs the W3C to sign off on EOT and then the Firefox
    team is stuck supporting EOT because they would never let IE support an open standard
    that the Firefox team does not. "
  created: '2007-06-02 02:42:55'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: But Microsoft doesn't own all the code, they license it from Agfa, who borrowed
    it from Monotype, who has it on a lease from a guy in Wisconsin, who knows a guy
    who... or whatever. ;) The peer pressure response is very valid, since Firefox
    is the self-proclaimed force that keeps IE competitive where the free market and
    our gov't failed. Mozilla devs would likely be able to code compliant behavior
    from the data that would be released to get W3C approval.
  created: '2007-06-02 04:49:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "There's no code license - it's documentation, a format spec, which would
    likely be appended to the CSS spec. Likewise from Monotype, they are documenting
    their compression, with a free license for Web use.  Sorry if I didn\u2019t make
    that clear."
  created: '2007-06-02 05:02:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Obviously Darrel I meant that your viewpoint is shallow, or at least over-simple.
    The truth isn't like that at all - as usual it's quite complex! For one thing,
    relying on the conscious evalution of readability on the part of end-users is
    just plain nuts; in fact it has been shown empirically that users over-estimate
    the font size that's most conducive to reading - which is to be expected. And
    if they get the size wrong, you can bet they get everything else wrong too.\r\n\r\nThe
    bottom line is that discerning designers design things <cite>in spite</cite> of
    what users say (or often even think) they prefer; and -like Christian said- discerning
    designers spend money on fonts to get their results <cite>just right</cite>; yes,
    more often in print, but there's so much room to grown on-screen.\r\n\r\n> The
    main money maker will be display fonts\r\n\r\nWhile the main \"comfort maker\"
    will be text fonts,\r\nspecifically in the area of hand-made grayscale fonts.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-02 06:15:58'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"it should be as simple as this:\r\nh1 { font-family: url(\"PillGothic300mg-Black.ttf\"),Helvetica,Arial;
    }\"\r\n\r\nI see... If you are not either rooting for a confluence of the enabling
    and rendering technologies, or for an embedding scheme that answers more questions
    than \"FONTNAME\", I think you need a rethink. \r\n\r\n\"\"consistent type-What
    the designer makes looks, by default, virtually identical in default view, standard
    browser windows, and can be manipulated (zoomed, etc.) like \u201Cnormal\u201D
    text.\"\r\nI do not see all this hap'nin as a result of this embedding today,
    do you?\r\n\r\n\"I think a few type designers/vendors don\u2019t like EOT purely
    because it is currently an MS proprietary technology and not supported cross-platform.\"\r\n\r\nI
    see MS proprietary technology that has considerably more effect on the appearence
    of fonts than embedding, that is not supported cross-platform/browser, don't you?\r\n\r\nI'm
    all for...embedding... but eventually, the fonts must emerge from their \"hidden\"
    folder and express the will of the reader or writer in a local font environment.
    To do this on a spectrum of technical foundations that are not consistently able
    to support high-quality output of fonts in low resolution environments is more
    than hard. \r\n\r\nCT left pure TT behind and went for fake resolution. OS10 left
    TT, for ad hoc fat pixeled greyscale and TT was not fully licensed unto Freetype
    We all lost a place to do consistent high quality work, and who knows why? But
    if embedding becomes sophisticated enough to ask the \"entire specification\",
    down to user rendering preferences, one can deliver very specific fonts of the
    highest possible quality for each and every user. \r\n\r\nDelivering jam to spread
    on \"whatever\" and \"promising\" it will \"taste good\" is someone else's job,
    apparently. Anyone today can see that the Windows CT and TT fonts once moved to
    the Mac look poor at most sizes. Moving \"normal\" TT fonts into a CT environment
    yields poor results as well, and browsers don't allow enough options, consistently,
    to assure user comfort or allow publisher's even modest quality control. \r\n\r\n\"the
    only folks [who] seem to really push for custom fonts on the web are the ad agencies
    working on major brand campaigns. As they also see fit to turn the web into pure
    Flash, there is little reason for them to need another font embedding method\"\r\n\r\nI
    see...So if this is only about text...\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-02 12:04:47'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>Likewise from Monotype, they are documenting their compression, with
    a free license for Web use. Sorry if I didn\u2019t make that clear.</em>\r\n\r\nNo,
    you were clear, there's no need to apologize, to me. I was being a bit tongue
    in cheek, but I meant, that to some activist, it will still be too fettered.\r\n\r\n<em>I
    do not see all this hap\u2019nin as a result of this embedding today, do you?</em>\r\n\r\nNot
    instantly. That was from my list of the ideal situation. Ideals aere rarely attainable,
    but i see this as a more pivotal step forward than others in the line. \r\n\r\n<em>I
    see MS proprietary technology that has considerably more effect on the appearance
    of fonts than embedding, that is not supported cross-platform/browser, don\u2019t
    you?</em>\r\n\r\nThat's why some people are developing non-hinted grayscale fonts,
    alternate text rendering engines, FOSS screen rasterizers and about a million
    other things.\r\n\r\n----\r\n\r\nHere's an interesting idea. SVG fonts are well
    suited to browsers, and well poised for general cross-platform use. How much work
    would it be to integrate them into the EOT style system? "
  created: '2007-06-02 16:30:32'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: "> for an embedding scheme that answers more questions than \u201CFONTNAME\u201D\r\n\r\nTrue,
    true. Though it doesn't need to *start* complicated. The advanced features should
    be available, but not required to make it work."
  created: '2007-06-02 16:38:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>But if embedding becomes sophisticated enough to ask the \u201Centire
    specification\u201D, down to user rendering preferences, one can deliver very
    specific fonts of the highest possible quality for each and every user.</em>\r\n\r\nAmen."
  created: '2007-06-02 21:39:01'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Here\u2019s an interesting idea. SVG fonts are well suited to browsers,
    and well poised for general cross-platform use. How much work would it be to integrate
    them into the EOT style system?</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s probably not a great
    idea. SVG was always Adobe\u2019s baby and Adobe dropped it after the Macromedia
    merger. Aside from maybe satisfying the tiny number of FOSS zealots who still
    care about SVG, and might refuse to work with EOT because they\u2019re crazy,
    what would the point be?"
  created: '2007-06-02 23:26:58'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Amen.\r\n\r\ntranslation... \"$$$$!\" ;-)"
  created: '2007-06-03 00:17:43'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" Though it doesn\u2019t need to *start* complicated\"\r\n1994, 1999, or
    2004 was when it needed starting simply. Now it is time to ask the user 's appearence
    prefs and the browser version. Is that too much? Who would be against such a thing?
    oops...I almost forgot...lol...\r\n\r\nSimon Daniels of Microsoft Corporation:
    \"translation\u2026 \u201C$$$$!\u201D ;-)\"\r\nlol, not quite: $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$!
    is more like it, (split $$$$$$$$$$$ ways of course). But besides that, anytime
    Simon wants to go strolling through MS's entire font library looking for functioning
    i-no-dots, on any platform, I'll be there with a teeny-tiny doll spoon to hold
    what we find...Really.\r\n\r\nmeme on, \r\n\r\nBerlow\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-03 13:30:44'
date: '2007-05-31 17:36:28'
title: Black Blogs on-screen Type

---
