---
author:
  name: lore
  picture: 111437
body: "Hello children\r\n\r\nOnce I bought a book just because it had a fabulous cover
  (by David Foldvari). I find the design of a book cover a huge responsibility and
  I wonder how you guys deal with this task. Do you receive a brief from the publisher
  (or from the author) or do you just need to read the book yourself and try to capture
  its essence? Is it true that as far as book covers are concerned \"anything goes\"
  or are there specific rules that need to be observed (proportions etc.)? \r\n\r\nAnd
  if you have one, can you tell me about your favourite book cover and why?\r\nThanks
  and hope you enjoy the thread."
comments:
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "I'll start with one of my favourites ( I'm a big fan of penguin books):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/glass_5291.JPG.jpg]"
  created: '2007-06-01 17:58:07'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "I always have to laugh when I hear the phrase \"don't judge a book by its
    cover,\" because I almost always do, and its almost always correct!\r\n\r\nA couple
    favorites that come to mind:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/7261_main_4358.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/light_4232.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/erewhon_4587.jpg]\r\nand
    this one:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PackagingBook2_5746.jpg]"
  created: '2007-06-01 18:26:17'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I\u2019m loving the new <a href=\"http://www.penguinclassics.co.uk/static/cs/uk/10/minisites/penguinepics/\">Penguin
    Epics series</a> that\u2019s just hitting the shelves here. But at $8.95 I\u2019m
    not buying them. "
  created: '2007-06-01 19:37:00'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1874061084large_4697.jpg]\r\n\r\nAnd
    the J.D. Salinger books in all their dirty, white-matte glory. \r\n\r\nEdit: Sorry,
    that image was huge."
  created: '2007-06-01 19:43:21'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "yes, the salinger books! I have this great edition of \"nine stories\" from
    1956:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/salinger_4621.jpg]\r\n\r\nand this
    one, from the 1962 paperback of gunter grass:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/the_tin_drum_6285.jpg]"
  created: '2007-06-01 19:57:06'
- author:
    name: Dan Heffernan
    picture: 111531
  body: "Farley Mowat\r\n\r\nimage won't show up so here's a link. sorry\r\n\r\nhttp://neexplorersclub.org/images/Farfarers's-cover.jpg\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-01 20:29:56'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: That reminds me of this one too [img:sites/default/files/old-images/NightWiesel_3912.jpg]
  created: '2007-06-01 20:31:23'
- author:
    name: malbright
    picture: 111180
  body: "Check out my friend Kirk's site for some wonderful covers, and a great variety
    of styles.\r\n\r\nHis taste is superb, and the type is delicious:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.dogeareddesign.com/dogeared.html\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-01 20:32:51'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "A new & questionable cover, I still have to read the book, <em><a href=\"http://www.oreilly.com/catalog/9780596527051/chapter/ch04.pdf\">The
    Myths of Innovation</a></em>.\r\n\r\nOne cover I love, <em><a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/gp/reader/0374474133/ref=sib_dp_pt/102-0332197-6838542#reader-link\">Tales
    From Moominvalley</a></em>, 1963.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-01 20:57:18'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Thanks Chuck!\r\n\r\nI love this one - On Beauty (bad jpeg!). Also the type
    is embossed.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Beauty-Zadie-Smith/dp/0143037749/ref=sr_1_4/102-3713412-0612115?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1180728748&sr=1-4\r\n\r\nbut
    there are so many.\r\n\r\nI do a lot of book covers but not for fiction or trade
    nonfiction. Mine are for illustrated books so they have to be of a piece with
    the design of the book's interior. Often the editor will suggest an image, equally
    often I can choose myself. I usually present anywhere from 3 to 10 sample designs,
    depending on the choices.\r\n\r\nIt is the hardest part of the book to nail down
    because it needs to be vetted by the sales/marketing team who are not usually
    that visually sophisticated. So it can be frustrating.\r\n\r\nFor fiction and
    trade nonfiction the cover is its own entity, separate from the interior."
  created: '2007-06-01 21:16:52'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Thanks Pat, I was waiting for your opinion : ) Zadie Smith's cover is beautiful,
    I like the grey and orange of <cite>Myths of Innovation</cite> too, not sure about
    the choice of fonts though.\r\nChuck: it's your own book! How cool is that! \r\nWhat
    kind of book is the Erewhon one? I can't tell by the cover (or am I missing something?)."
  created: '2007-06-01 21:27:12'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Erewhon was actually a small catalog I did for a show at a gallery. The artists
    (Jane & Louise Wilson) do installations and take large photographs; that was one
    of them. Sometimes artists are not cool with their images bleeding, being cropped
    (altho this was not cropped) or having type over them which is why a lot of art
    books have kind of static covers. But these gals were cool with type over their
    image.\r\n\r\nThere are so many covers I love - check out Paul Rand, Elaine Lustig,
    Chip Kidd, also a book called \"By Its Cover\"\r\n\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Its-Cover-Modern-American-Design/dp/1568984979/ref=sr_1_1/102-3713412-0612115?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1180731547&sr=1-1"
  created: '2007-06-01 21:59:27'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Here is one I love that I got at a garage sale for $1. It has no dust jacket,
    but the scrollwork is printed in gold directly on the hard cover. Dated 1927.
    If anyone would like the full size scan e-mail me and I will send it in a reply
    (1.7 Mb)\r\n\r\n(Because it is published after 1923, it isn't public domain, so
    I can't add it to my site until about 2022)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kingdomofbooksm_5078.jpg]"
  created: '2007-06-01 23:47:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Lore, I was designing book covers for a while. I had two main clients, a mass-market
    romance publisher, and a niche publisher, mainly political. The budgets, creative
    and working relationship couldn't have been more different, but for both I always
    made many, many comps using low-res stock images or whatever, just to try out
    different concepts (and type treatments) and see if anything struck a spark with
    the client. I never read the book as research -- the publisher should give a creative/marketing
    brief, they're better informed and the designer shouldn't be left to figure out
    what the book is about, and who it's supposed to appeal to, and where it's going
    to be sold. For size and proportions, if you're just doing the cover not the guts,
    I think it's unusual that the cover designer would have any input.
  created: '2007-06-02 01:01:03'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: 'I agree with Nick-- Not that I''ve done a lot of book covers, but I have
    designed several. But the dimensions are pretty predetermined (in my experience)
    by a lot of factors: does the book work in a series? should it have a particular
    ''shelf presence''? are there market norms? All of these are also factored by
    common signature sheets.  If something is going to break the mold, it''s goiing
    to cost a good deal to do it... which is not to say it doesn''t happen (Chronicle
    Books, in SF,CA is a good example). '
  created: '2007-06-02 01:33:30'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "Lore:\r\n<em>(it IS pretty cool...)\r\n</em>\r\nbut i don't know if i can
    say what it is that draws me to a book cover. type? image? format? it's all so
    subjective at the point of contact/experience. what i can say is that i would
    rather hold a book in my hand than look at a photo of it, i'd rather turn a page
    than scroll a screen, and when i'm looking to retrieve a particular book, i can
    remember its cover (and spine) and pick it out of the (too) many on the shelves
    visually much more quickly than by reading the title. the design IMPACTS me.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-02 06:30:45'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Thanks Nick, it makes a lot of sense. Thanks everyone. Very naive of me to
    think the designer would have to read the book and come up with something (blush),
    but sometimes I look at a cover and it actually feels like the designer has read
    (and enjoyed) the book, which I guess is a good sign.\r\n\r\nCheck out this one
    (sorry bad scan)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/penguin_4772.gif]\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-02 16:17:51'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: The early moderns still look good and had a strong influence on what we still
    see[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Nagy_4661.jpg]
  created: '2007-06-02 17:16:04'
- author:
    name: Berg
    picture: 112334
  body: "Some books I love\r\n\r\nPrinted in Switzerland in 1926, an old songbook.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Kinderbuch_6122.jpg]\r\n\"La
    fr\xE9gate du capitaine Unit\xE9\", a russian book about mathmatics for children,
    translated in French (1986)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Levchine_3876.jpg]\r\n\"Exercices
    de style\" by Raymond Queneau with typographic exercices by Massin\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/massin_5171.jpg]"
  created: '2007-06-02 19:01:59'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Speaking about \"typographic covers\" with a nice letterpress feel:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/meditations_6028.gif]\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-02 19:16:35'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: Fontplayer - here is what the dustjacket of you book looks like - in reality
    it is darker being dark ink on a very dark brown paper.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/orcutt_4655.jpg]
  created: '2007-06-03 01:43:51'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: 'A book that old with a dustjacket which looks to be in fairly good shape:
    Nice find.'
  created: '2007-06-03 07:07:02'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "Here's a pretty good book cover blog that I visit every other day: <a href
    = \"http://covers.fwis.com/\"> fwis </a>\r\n\r\nPaul Rand's stuff is fun and this
    style still seems current <a href = \"http://www.alvinlustig.org/bp_nd/bp_nd.asp\">
    Alvin Lustig's </a> stuff just blew me away \r\n\r\nBut for contemporary stuff
    you can't go past the Kidd. especially for me the power of the <a href = \"http://www.jasonfulford.com/outofsight.html\">
    Elmore Leonard </a> books with the gritty newspaper styled type\r\n\r\nHowever
    I reckon the best book cover is (perhaps banally) <a href = \"http://houseofbaddesign.blogspot.com/extremelyloud.jpg\">
    this </a>\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-04 12:35:55'
- author:
    name: Ingrid Paulson
    picture: 112587
  body: "I  have to disagree about not reading the book. I've been working exclusively
    as a book designer (covers, interior design and typesetting) for nearly 10 years,
    and in most cases I do read the manuscript. The reason? I'm a trained designer,
    and have a vast understanding of visual literacy. I've had publishers send me
    treatments, suggestions for the cover etc. that are far too literal, and too weak
    visually. I read the manuscript, pick out what I call \"Lit 101\" (colour themes,
    time periods, look of protagonists, any other repetitive or significant visual
    clues) and use that as the basis for the cover idea. For non-fiction, I will go
    with the treatment, but with fiction, I find it necessary to read. The few times
    where I haven't had anything but the word of the editor/publisher, the book cover
    design has been weaker than when I contributed my expertise, ideas and thoughts
    into the interpretation.\r\n\r\nI don't know of many book designers that work
    exclusively in this field that don't dip into the manuscript, even to just read
    the first third. While I know of one designer (who doesn't work exclusively with
    books) rely on what the editor and publisher dictate with good results, I've picked
    up far too many books where the cover was a misrepresentation of the goods inside.
    Its a balance: making a catchy, saleable cover design that also can enhance the
    enjoyment and understanding of the book itself.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-04 17:02:46'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: Ingrid, that's very interesting, thanks.
  created: '2007-06-04 17:31:11'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: I agree. The few covers I've done, I've read the galleys. Same with CD covers/inserts.
    I listen to the music over and over and over before I jump in with my two cents.
  created: '2007-06-04 18:30:38'
- body: At Cialis online that time, the blood vessels that <a href=http://campus.murraystate.edu/academic/faculty/fred.miller/hkmkt/thread.cfm?ThreadID=88&messages=1&Reply=FALSE>buy
    cialis </a> <a href=http://campus.murraystate.edu/academic/faculty/fred.miller/hkmkt/thread.cfm?ThreadID=89&messages=1&Reply=FALSE>levitra
    side effects </a> <a href=http://campus.murraystate.edu/academic/faculty/fred.miller/hkmkt/thread.cfm?ThreadID=90&messages=1&Reply=FALSE>natural
    viagra </a> <a href=http://campus.murraystate.edu/academic/faculty/fred.miller/hkmkt/thread.cfm?ThreadID=91&messages=1&Reply=FALSE>buy
    prozac </a> <a href=http://campus.murraystate.edu/academic/faculty/fred.miller/hkmkt/thread.cfm?ThreadID=92&messages=1&Reply=FALSE>buy
    soma lowest prices </a> <a href=http://campus.murraystate.edu/academic/faculty/fred.miller/hkmkt/thread.cfm?ThreadID=93&messages=1&Reply=FALSE>discount
    viagra </a>
  created: '2007-06-09 11:57:48'
- author:
    name: jasper7777
    picture: 111931
  body: nice simple covers illustrated by christopher neal silas. He also has some
    great posters on his site.  http://www.redsilas.com/print.html[img:sites/default/files/old-images/redsillas_driver_4818.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/redsilasjpg_4746.jpg]
  created: '2007-06-14 07:31:38'
- author:
    name: jasper7777
    picture: 111931
  body: "Japanese covers\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/jap_5176.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/japcraft_5496.jpg]\r\n\r\nThis
    one is really interesting-- it really was published in Japan\r\nand is a manual
    that discusses methods of suicide- success rates etc..\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/The_Complete_Manual_of_Suicide_4815.jpg]\r\n\r\nInteresting
    czech covers-- 1920s 30s-- they look so modern\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/czech1928_6448.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/jindrichstyrsky_5987.jpg]\r\n\r\nany
    cover designed by John Gall\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/johngall_4079.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/johngall2_4616.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nand
    can't beat the \"relationship of type and image\" in on this cover...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/coils_of_time_6301.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nThis
    Aubrey Beardsley Salome cover is maybe one of my favorites of all time.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/salome_beardsley_3568.jpg]"
  created: '2007-06-14 07:32:40'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "I love this topic, since in the 80s and 90s I did typography for quite a
    few publishing houses in NY. \r\n\r\n<em>Once I bought a book just because it
    had a fabulous cover</em>\r\n\r\nThis is an old publishing argument. What really
    sold you the book. The art department would be beaming because of lore's reply.
    Yet, the editorial department would respond with, the artwork, type -- the front
    cover in general, made you pick the book up to look at when you were in the bookstore
    - BUT, you then flipped it over and read what the book was about and that made
    your final purchase decision.\r\n\r\nIn the mid-1980s Jove Books (then part of
    the Putnam/Berkley Pubishing Group, and now part of Penguin USA (along with New
    American Library and Dutton) put out a \"generic cover.\" It was all white with
    black type, and looked like the generic foods that were being sold for lower prices
    in the supermarkets. That book did great. So...they put out a whole line of generic
    books (saving on artwork, type designers, 3/colors in the process, etc.) and it
    was a failure. \r\n\r\nI think what many of us do look for is originality. When
    one idea seems to work, it is a flattery that others follow. I remember handletterers
    preparing fancy types for romance novels -- and all of a sudden, every romance
    cover had a script.\r\n\r\nI have a dislike for \"grunge\" type covers. I really
    want to be able to read and pick up a \"mood.\" For grunge, I just have to look
    at my disheveled office.\r\n\r\nChip Kidd of Random House gave new design  ideas
    with his split covers and choice of type. Mike Stromberg gave us a strong male
    type with a \"mistral\" script with it. Tony Greco was the master of the small
    space. Jimmy Harris taught us that clean lines worked. I could go on and on --
    but I cannot pick a \"favorite.\" Maybe because I knew so many of the designers,
    and so many of the different styles -- that there was an appreciation of the work
    they did.\r\n\r\nNow if I were a little girl and letting you know which I loved
    - it was <em>Madeleine</em> - hands down!!! Both interior and exterior. :-)"
  created: '2007-06-14 13:10:39'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I bought this book because of the cover. The type wraps around the spine
    too\r\n\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Ventriloquists-Tale-Pauline-Melville/dp/1582340269/ref=sr_1_1/102-3713412-0612115?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1181827197&sr=1-1\r\n\r\nThe
    Penguin Great Ideas series is fabulous for all-type covers\r\n\r\nhttp://www.penguin.co.uk/static/cs/uk/0/articles/greatideas/index.html\r\n\r\nand
    yes, love that Jonathan Safran Foer cover - and also that of his first book Everything
    is Illuminated (f**kin' hated the book tho)"
  created: '2007-06-14 14:24:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I have been a writer and reader of books, and only recently a type designer.
    So I am reacting mainly as a consumer. The main books that I retain an affection
    for their covers in a lifetime of reading are the Penguin covers in England in
    the 60s that I read then. These were done by Hans Schmoller, influenced by the
    examples set by Jan Tschichold.\r\n\r\nA lot of covers today of mass market books
    seem to me to lack a literary feeling, and lack charm. The reading a good book
    is a quiet but deep pleasure. And the covers of most fiction and non-fiction should
    give an alluring glance at the reader, not dance the hoochie-coochie. \r\n\r\nOf
    course books with a lot of visual content should reflect that on the cover, and
    they can be just wonderful if the visuals in the book are great. \r\n\r\nThe thing
    about a book is that you live with it, spend days or weeks reading it, leave it
    on the shelf, and keep it in your library to refer to it. So it needs to wear
    well. The need to draw attention in the book store is in tension with this, and
    a great cover will resolve that tension by being sufficiently eye-catching, but
    wear well. \r\n\r\nThe Penguin Classic series seem to take up the old Tschichold
    and Schmoller styles. I don't see them close up in Patty's link, but I have to
    say that the 'Marcus Aurelius' one posted by Lore to me is an eyesore. It mixes
    in the taller caps and ligatures without rhyme or reason, like a parody of classic
    inscriptions, or as if you just barfed up a lot of caps and ligatures--the spacing
    is lousy and the color uneven. It uses the classic material of caps, but completely
    lacks that combination of calmness and elation that is the classical taste, and
    goes well with many books.   "
  created: '2007-06-14 14:55:13'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "I don't wanna dis Chip Kidd, but I often feel like he's trying too hard in
    his book covers (and interior designs). Almost as if he really wants everyone
    to know all the time that he's a writer <em> and </em> a designer.\r\n\r\nThe
    \"Illuminated\" cover wowed me, too, at the time. But I'm now not sure I made
    it through the book.\r\n\r\nI really like the stuff Barbara Hodgson does. The
    Tatooed Map comes to mind:\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Tattooed-Map-Novel-Barbara-Hodgson/dp/0811808173/ref=pd_bbs_2/104-4039857-2874321?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1181829318&sr=8-2\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-14 14:56:42'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: This is going to be heresy in this place, but when I get a hardcover book,
    the first thing I do is discard the dustjacket. To me a book is meant to look
    like a book on my shelves (over 1000 hardcovers), not a poster. I consider the
    dustcover the advertising that got me to read the book, and it is the quality
    of the writing that gets it onto my shelves.
  created: '2007-06-14 15:00:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Don, you don't have the option of throwing the dust jacket when it is a paperback.
    \r\n\r\nAlso dust jackets can be eye catching and still sit happily on the shelf.
    Here are a couple of examples.\r\n\r\nThe Chicago Manual of Style uses great typography
    with a great typeface--Scala--and bright colors. The brightness not only attracts
    in the book store, but also gives a lightness to what could be an incredibly stodgy
    looking book. The inside is set in Scala also. It says the design is by Jill Shimabukuro,
    who I assume did both the inside and cover. The glory of it is a lot in the sharp
    beauty of Scala, so the fuzz of the screen doesn't do it justice:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Chicago-cover_4645.gif]\r\n.\r\nHere
    is another very different cover, for the Book of Legends. Here the frame is taken
    from an illuminated manuscript (a marriage contract, Ketubbah), and the inside
    designed to complement it. The cover is by Megan Wilson. I also know that the
    editor found the beautiful illuminated manuscript in a library.\r\n\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Legends-cover_3741.gif]"
  created: '2007-06-14 15:08:09'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Chip Kidd veers between total brilliance and ripping himself off. When I
    first started designing books the stars were Louise Fili, Fred Marcellino, and
    Carin Goldberg. Chip and I are of the same generation and I have to acknowledge
    he's glamourized the business quite a bit. However his own monograph is horrible.
    I don't know if he designed it or not.\r\n\r\nAnother book I bought for the cover
    (Paul Rand) - and will likely never read.\r\n\r\nSpeaking of books, Rudolph Arnheim's
    obit appeared today. He was 102. Who even knew he was still alive?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mencken_5961.jpg]"
  created: '2007-06-14 15:29:03'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: 'You''re right, Patty -- some of his covers are beautiful. His cover late
    last month for Haruki Murakami''s "After Dark" is terrific. Carol Devine Carson
    -- also at Knopf, does some incredible work, too. '
  created: '2007-06-14 15:47:01'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Yes, how could I forget Carol Devine Carson.
  created: '2007-06-14 16:27:18'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "<cite>Rudolph Arnheim\u2019s obit appeared today. He was 102. Who even knew
    he was still alive?</cite>\r\nHow weird, I mentioned him in a seminar last Tuesday
    and assumed he was dead.\r\nWilliam, thanks for the observation on the Marcus
    Aurelius's book cover, I look at it in a different way now. Umph!\r\n\r\nI tend
    to dislike special effects on book covers, embossed letters etc., glossy paper,
    especially those that scream: that's why this book is so bloody expensive! I prefer
    the discrete but carefullty designed covers, it doesn't matter if they age faster.
    Yellowed and smelly pages have their charm too."
  created: '2007-06-14 18:23:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks, Lore, for your open-minded response. I think what you were reacting
    to positively in the cover is Matthew Carter's great titling face, Mantinia.\r\n\r\nHere,
    from 'Typographically Speaking: The Art of Matthew Carter' is an example of its
    usage by Carter himself. A bit better :) \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Mantinia_5648.gif]"
  created: '2007-06-14 19:04:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/manders_chicago01_5314.jpg]\r\nFrom:
    http://typophile.com/node/29064\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-14 19:13:26'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">BUT, you then flipped it over and read what the book was about and that
    made your final purchase decision.\r\n\r\nHaving been disappointed in the past
    by blurb I don\u2019t do that any more. I have been seduced into buying solely
    by a cover though.\r\n\r\nGreat covers in waiting\r\nhttp://www.penguin.co.uk/static/cs/uk/0/minisites/mypenguin/index.html\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-06-14 19:49:51'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "<cite>I find the design of a book cover a huge responsibility and I wonder
    how you guys deal with this task. Do you receive a brief from the publisher (or
    from the author) or do you just need to read the book yourself and try to capture
    its essence?</cite>\r\n\r\nI have designed a few covers. I always receive a brief,
    and they usually have a feeling or mood they'd like to convey. I try to read as
    much of the book as possible, but sometimes time is very prohibitive! I've only
    bought one book for the cover: the Penguin edition of Ulysses with the modified
    Spectrum. Only read a few pages, too hard going for me. One day I'll be intelligent
    enough to read it.\r\n\r\nHere are a few I've done, for those who are interested.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/awa-01_4216.jpg]\r\n\r\nThese
    are the first two of a planned series. 2 colour covers to save a them a bit of
    dough, spot colours are easier to control & more vibrant than cmyk mixes. Type:
    Maple & Mercury, they play really well together.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/JOC-01_5340.jpg]\r\n\r\nthis
    is the full cover, magenta lines indicate the spine. Printed black for budget,
    put the contents/artists on the cover to avoid arguments. I was also a bit drunk
    when doing the  contents & thought it was too nice to but on the inside, and has
    the bonus of saving a few inner pages. Type: Farao & Exotique (unreleased)\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/migrant-sex-01_5366.jpg]\r\n\r\nLeft
    is dual language, Arabic & English. Both run the correct way for the language
    and meet in the middle. Type: Poppl Pontifex, publisher really wanted big body
    copy, and Pontifex has a large x-height.  Sexuality is a bit of a mishmash, I
    was told to make it \"less gay & less Maori\" and this this is how it ended up!
    \r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/luminous-01_5287.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nAlice
    writes really dark short stories, they are truly excellent! The one on the left
    is one of the first concepts, the one on the right is how it developed. I really
    wanted the left one to be gold foiled, but the cost was apparently prohibitive.
    Type in final: Karbon, in progress.\r\n\r\nVirtually all my initial concepts are
    rejected, which takes some getting used to.\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-06-14 23:40:33'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Okay - I finally remembered which was my all-time favorite book cover. However,
    I must admit, it was never a book at all. Many times I refer to my dear departed
    friend James R. Harris. When he was the art director of trade books at Ballantine
    (when it was all under the Random House umbrella) he directed many photo shoots.
    At one of them he asked the photographer (it might have been Don Banks) if he
    wouldn't mind afterward taking a few shots of him. So he dressed up for the occasion.
    Please remember, this was done before computers. It is a photograph with rub on
    (transfer) type - and a great sense of humor. So please enjoy - I have it poster
    size placed in my office (another friend saw it lying around and surprised me
    by having it framed recently so it wouldn't deteriorate.\r\n\r\nPlease enjoy\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/JimmyCover_5692.jpg]"
  created: '2007-06-15 01:04:19'
- author:
    name: gabrielhl
    picture: 109646
  body: "Here's a series of books from brazilian publisher cosac naify that I really
    like. They also have an interesting \"tactile\" side to them, with UV varnish
    that follows each \"wallpaper\". (sorry if varnish is not the correct term. english
    is not my first language)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/virginiacapa_6159.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Katherinecapa_4294.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/anedotas_gde_4801.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fazendaafricanacapa_3660.jpg]\r\n\r\nIs
    there a way to post the images in a row so it doesn't take so much vertical space?"
  created: '2007-06-15 03:32:19'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Gabriel: These are lovely. The simplicity works.'
  created: '2007-06-15 18:56:12'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Love Cosac Naify work, I've been in touch with Elaine once (I think she's
    the art director there) and she's not only talented but nice too. It's a very
    small equipe but they do a very good job.\r\nAnd what can I say about the Gay
    Goy's guide? Gorgeous. Unless William proves me wrong, of course. Kidding William,
    you are what I consider a reliable source. ;)\r\nI don't believe blurbs either
    but I believe reviews especially when the source is reliable. Or I check the prizes.
    And prices. And weight."
  created: '2007-06-15 20:46:22'
- author:
    name: gabrielhl
    picture: 109646
  body: "I love Cosac Naify too. IMO, it's by far the brazilian editing house with
    the best looking books. Almost everything they do is elegant. By elegant I mean
    being able to attract attention and interest trough simplicity and a sort of quietness.
    It's sofistication: no need for myriads of flashy colors and superimposed elements.\r\n\r\nElaine
    is my brazilian book design idol. I hope to meet her someday.\r\n\r\nHere is another
    Cosac Cover which I love: \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/50_poemas_gde_4764.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    wonderful thing about this cover is that the paper has thin horizontal lines in
    relief that complement the horizontal design. Again, tactile. (is there anything
    duller than touching glossy, coated paper?) Also, the white dots you can see are
    numbers from one to fifty - the title is \"fifty poems selected by the author\".
    The sky and stars reference one of the author's most famous poems, translated
    \"Morning Star\"."
  created: '2007-06-16 02:38:42'
date: '2007-06-01 17:57:12'
title: book covers we love

---
