---
author:
  name: Charlotta
  picture: 112418
body: "I don't really know if I'm in the right forum, but this is my problem - I have
  chosen Perla for my logotype and posted another topic about that a while ago when
  I needed help to make an image out of it. Every single person I asked - and I talked
  to about ten or so - gave me different solutions how to do that, but I followed
  Lherrou's advice - thank you!  :-) But I took the easy suggestion and not the one
  including CSS. It worked, but the font looks \"grainy\" and not sharp enough. My
  question is - does the \"CSS way\" make the font sharper? Or is there another way
  I can do that? I paid quite a lot for that font and I love it and it's a big part
  of my web site so it's really bad if I can't make it look better. Would be really
  grateful for some help!  :-)\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If you're making an image out of the font, CSS has nothing to do with it
    (it has nothing to do with rendering quality anyway), and what you're encountering
    is the limits of resolution of the screen: there aren't enough pixels to make
    small text look very nice (especially for something as expressive as Perla). One
    thing you should check is that (if you're using Photoshop) the text rendering
    (the \"aa\" field) is set to \"Smooth\" and not \"None\". But if it is set to
    smooth and you're still unhappy then it means there's only one way to go: painting
    the individual pixels by hand to get the maximum quality. The thing is, this is
    pretty hard to do yourself, and pretty expensive to get somebody else to do.\r\n\r\nBut
    I'm sort of guessing here, and I might be off concerning\r\nwhat you're unhappy
    with, so showing an image would help.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-03 15:21:06'
- author:
    name: Scott D
    picture: 112474
  body: "Could you show an example?\r\n\r\nPerla has fine details that will get lost
    at smaller sizes. I don't know what you mean by \"CSS way,\" but CSS can't sharpen
    a graphic. There are ways to adjust the antialiasing in Photoshop which can affect
    the sharpness.\r\n\r\nEdit: Hrant beat me to it, but we're saying the same thing."
  created: '2007-06-03 15:21:14'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Hrant - Thanks for the advice - I set it to Smooth and it got a bit better
    but not as sharp as it looks when I type it in Word. And obvioulosy there's no
    way I can paint the pixels myself, let alone pay someone. Truthfully, I have no
    idea how to do it even theoretically. \r\n\r\nScott D - Yes, Perla has these really
    fine details in the lower case letters, especially with the a:s and e:s. I mentioned
    CSS because that came up when I was going to convert the letters to an image and
    I just wanted to know if that could improve the quality.\r\n\r\nAn example of
    the text that's \"grainy\"?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-03 17:31:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> not as sharp as it looks when I type it in Word.\r\n\r\nThat's not surprising,
    especially if you have ClearType enabled.\r\nBTW if you like the Word rendering
    better, you can use it! Just\r\ndo a screen-grab of the Word setting and bring
    it into Photoshop.\r\n\r\n> I have no idea how to do it even theoretically.\r\n\r\nYou
    just zoom in in Photoshop and click away,\r\nwith the pencil tool, set to one
    pixel. But that\r\n\"just\" is deceptive...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-03 17:45:05'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "In general, this has to do with <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/activity/hinting/\">hinting</a>.
    Most fonts simply don't look good in small screen sizes unless they're extensively
    tweaked (\"hinted\") with low resolution in mind. Fonts such Verdana, Arial or
    Times New Roman have undergone months of manual hinting done by best experts in
    the field. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-03 17:51:12'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "hrant - \"Screen-grab\"? You're talking to a rookie here. I need a lot more
    information than that. \r\n\r\ntwardoch - \"Hinting\" - that's a new term I just
    learned! I consider myself pretty smart but in this field I really have very little
    clue. What is kerning? Is that when you make a space between every letter in a
    word, or something like that? \r\n\r\nBTW - You talk about smaller sizes and small
    screen sizes - how small is that? "
  created: '2007-06-03 18:01:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "On Windows you do a screen grab by hitting the Alt-PrintScreen key sequence;\r\nthen
    you do a Paste in Photoshop. On Mac I think it's Shift-Option-1 or something,\r\nI
    forget; then you load up the screen grab file that's on the desktop.\r\n\r\nHinting
    and kerning are different things. The kerning you might need\r\nto worry about
    is manual spacing adjustments between letters in a given\r\nsetting to make the
    spaces balance. But in Word this is quite tedious, so it\r\nmight be better here
    to nudge things around in Photoshop.\r\n\r\nSmall, for a normal font, is less
    than about 24 pt (18 pt in \"native\"\r\nWindows). But for a font like Perla the
    threshold is much higher.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-03 18:09:08'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: Thank you! I did that and it worked (I've never done that Alt-Printscreen-thing
    before, good to know!). But I don't know how it's going to look when I load it
    up. I think Perla looks great in 72 pt, but that's apparently too big for a normal
    size screen - or so I've been told. (I mean, in doing a web site with all these
    "frames". I'm not doing that myself, I have help.)
  created: '2007-06-03 18:53:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW the Alt is for grabbing the active window.\r\nWithout the Alt it grabs
    the whole screen, which is generally less useful.\r\n\r\n> I don\u2019t know how
    it\u2019s going to look when I load it up.\r\n\r\nIt will look the same, unless
    you scale it, which is almost never\r\na good idea however. But it will look a
    bit lighter on Macs.\r\n\r\nIf you're trying to figure out how large your images\r\nwill
    come out on your users' screens, all you have to\r\ndo is factor in your own screen's
    size, comparing it\r\nto the typical screen size, which is about 1024\xD7768.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-03 19:08:42'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: Yes, 1024x768 is what we're doing. Just wanted to make sure - from a pro -
    that I can't make it bigger. Feel free to make suggestions on a new topic I just
    posted about fonts. If you want to. And thank you.
  created: '2007-06-03 19:12:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Web page sizing is actually a somewhat complex issue,\r\nit's not just a
    matter of determining some maximum.\r\nBTW, I don't consider myself a pro at web
    design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-03 19:25:38'
- author:
    name: Scott D
    picture: 112474
  body: "Yep, I would use Perla in large sizes only on screen, generally bigger than
    48 pt. And use it for display purposes (headings and such), not lengthy copy.\r\n\r\nAs
    for the \"ideal\" size of a web page, it depends on your content, layout, and
    audience. You're probably fine with a design that has an overall width of less
    than 1024 pixels these days. Just keep your line length around 66 characters for
    copy or it will become difficult to read."
  created: '2007-06-03 20:00:37'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "A great trick is to use layers in PhotoShop. Just duplicate the textlayer
    several times. Play with the settings (eg bottom smooth, second layer sharp with
    50& opacity, and so on). This way the end result is way beyond what PS can do
    out of the box.\r\n\r\nAnother trick is to build the type-images at twice or thrice
    the required size and downsample them in the end, where the different GIF-settings
    provide alternative endresults."
  created: '2007-06-03 20:19:59'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Thank you for all your advice - I've tried everything\r\nexcept painting
    the pixels myself and even though \r\nit improved, it doesn't look good enough.
    \r\nIt's very frustrating since I spent so long \r\nsearching for the perfect
    font and now I might \r\nbe forced to launch my web site with an unsharp logotype.
    \ :-(\r\n\r\nBert - Thank you for the suggestions! I'll try to do what you recommended
    today. One question - when you say downsample, do you mean just make the size
    smaller? (I'm sorry if I sound like an idiot, but most of the \"typographical
    lanuguage\" and web design techniques is like greek to me.)   :-) "
  created: '2007-06-04 12:30:55'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "It should be no problem to create good \"type graphics\" in PhotoShop. But
    it's impossible to see where your problems are if you don't show us what you have
    done so far. Just \"Save for Web \u2026\" in PhotoShop and upload the image here. "
  created: '2007-06-04 13:02:33'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Charlotta...please post some samples so we can take a look at them. \r\n\r\nMake
    sure you are saving your type as GIF files and are optimizing the color pallet
    to best cater to the type color.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-04 15:11:43'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Yes, of course I need to show an image in order for you\r\nto help me and
    I was going to do that yesterday when I \r\nwas adviced not to. A person working
    close to me (with PR \r\nand marketing) thought it wouldn't be smart to display
    my \r\nlogotype in a forum. (?)\r\nSeriously, would that be stupid of me? I just
    remember when \r\nI revealed the two names of my collections in this forum and
    \r\nwas adviced to register the trademark before another \r\ncompany stole my
    ideas. I've been accused of nagging \r\nabout this - but I am really new at all
    of this - \r\nmarketing, graphic design, rights and trademarks - \r\nso I just
    don't want to make a mistake. \r\nI'm trying to be responsible here.     :-)  \r\n"
  created: '2007-06-04 16:14:59'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: You don't have to use your logotype for the sample images. Just make up a
    new name! ;-)
  created: '2007-06-04 18:16:35'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: 'I know, I am actually doing that. Such an easy solution...    :-)  '
  created: '2007-06-04 19:30:15'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Here it is, the way it looks on the internet. Am I a perfectionist\r\nfor
    thinking that this does not look any where near okay?\r\n(People around me think
    I should just be satisfied and go\r\nfor it. If the majority of people in this
    forum think it\u2019s\r\nfine, I will, but first I want an opinion from the\r\n\u201Cprofessionals\u201D
    in this forum.) It\u2019s looks perfectly fine in Dreamweaver but then it ends
    up looking like this. \r\nI\u2019m having a very pale pink background to the black
    font \r\nand this is suppose to be the start page.\r\nIs there any way I can fix
    this without having to go to a graphic designer? I would be SO grateful!! :-)\r\n\r\nI
    can post a link if it\u2019s easier to view the whole picture on the screen. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sample_3880.gif]"
  created: '2007-06-04 20:29:29'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "This image uses a limited (and not optimized) color palette of 8 colors.
    In which color mode do you work in Photoshop? It should be RGB or Greyscale, so
    Photoshop can use the correct colors for anti aliasing the text. \r\nWhen you
    export for Web Photoshop can reduce the color palette. Choose \"selective\" here.\r\n\r\nThe
    ornament doesn't use greyscale/anti aliasing at all. You can get a better result
    if you scale down a larger version (as described before).\r\n\r\nRalf\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-04 20:40:26'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "There really is no way you are going to be able to use this typeface any
    any size smaller than what you see there online without massive hand tweaking
    at the pixel level. The stroke width contrasts in this face are just too extreme.\r\n\r\nThat
    said, I'm always up for a challange and managed to come up with this::\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/perla_4284.gif]\r\n\r\nStill
    needs a lot of tweaking but is maybe passable. I took your source file, reduced
    it to 50% using bicubic interpolation, duplicated the layer, set the top layer
    to 'multiply' mode, then tweaked the opacity of the top layer to suit.\r\n\r\nI
    then merged that and reduced it down to 75% of that.\r\n\r\nThe next step would
    be to go back in at the pixel level and make sure the horizontal strokes are truly
    just one pixel thick."
  created: '2007-06-04 21:00:28'
- author:
    name: OptimusChyme
    picture: 111204
  body: "\"Yes, of course I need to show an image in order for you\r\nto help me and
    I was going to do that yesterday when I\r\nwas adviced not to. A person working
    close to me (with PR\r\nand marketing) thought it wouldn\u2019t be smart to display
    my\r\nlogotype in a forum. (?)\"\r\n\r\nYes, heaven forfend you post your logo
    on the internet so we can help you fix your logo, which you're going to post on
    the internet.   "
  created: '2007-06-05 01:22:12'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Ralf Hermann and Aluminium - Thank you so much for your help!  :-)\r\nI was
    going to try your suggestions last night - with some\r\nhelp - but couldn't log
    on to Typophile to get the info.\r\nI am doing it today and I hope I can make
    it look better.\r\n\r\nBut if not - the question is, do you think it looks so\r\nbad
    that I should find another font? Or is it acceptable?\r\nI'd be deeply grateful
    for opinions on this.\r\n\r\n\r\n> Yes, heaven forfend you post your logo on the
    internet so we can help you fix your logo, which you\u2019re going to post on
    the internet.\r\n\r\nMaybe you didn't understand? I haven't launched the site
    yet. \r\nThis is a logotype for a new business and there could be\r\na risk that
    someone would \"steal\" or copy an idea and then\r\nI would end up looking like
    the copy cat. There are thousands\r\nof visitors here every day so I don't think
    my concern was\r\ncompletely unfounded. There's no need to be sarcastic. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-05 10:01:47'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"This is a logotype for a new business and there could be\r\na risk that
    someone would \u201Csteal\u201D or copy an idea \"\r\n\r\nThey could infringe
    on your copyright or patent, but we have laws for that. I wouldn't loose too much
    sleep over it.\r\n\r\nAs for the typeface, I guess that's your call. It definitely
    isn't a face that scales well on-screen, but if you find it acceptable, go for
    it."
  created: '2007-06-05 14:47:08'
- author:
    name: Charlotta
    picture: 112418
  body: "Aluminium - Thanks! If I can't make it look better in black, \r\nI might
    try another softer color, maybe that will \"disguise\" \r\nthe fact that the font
    isn't sharp. It's really sad though \r\nbecause I do love Perla and it wasn't
    exactly cheap. \r\nIf I had known this fact about fonts and having to make it
    into an image, I would've thought twice. But now I know better -\r\ntrial and
    error.  :-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-06 09:26:51'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "I\u2019m very curious as to what is happening. It\u2019s certainly not the
    font. It must have something to do with the method you\u2019re using to produce
    the image.\r\n\r\nHere is Perla set in Photoshop at the same size as your example.
    I have used the four anti-aliasing method provided in Photoshop CS2 to show the
    subtle variations in rendering that can occur. (Top to bottom: Sharp; Crisp, Strong,
    Smooth) The bottomost example shows Perla with anti-aliased turned off completely.\r\n\r\nI
    would argue that all of these (save the aliased version) are acceptable.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Photoshop002_5474.png]\r\n\r\nAgain,
    here are the same samples scaled to 50% of the original size in Photoshop. Still
    nowhere near as chunky as the example you posted.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Photoshop003_4130.png]\r\n\r\nWhat
    file format are you saving the image as?"
  created: '2007-06-06 18:54:30'
- author:
    name: reese
    picture: 109539
  body: "Grant, that \"sharp\" version looks very nice. \r\n\r\nI have heard that
    Photoshop may not be the best program for saving out fonts as images for the web.
    Though the person who told me this didn't reveal a better product (perhaps fireworks?)
    Apparently there is software that can render better than PS with certain fonts.
    I generally set to sharp myself (my work is almost exclusively websites). "
  created: '2007-06-07 06:17:48'
- author:
    name: Scott D
    picture: 112474
  body: "Fireworks has finer anti-aliasing controls. I hoped that CS3 would provide
    a similar slider/numeric control for this...\r\n\r\nI mean, has anyone ever been
    able to tell the difference between \"crisp\" and \"smooth\" anti-aliasing in
    Photoshop CS2? Look at Grant's second and fourth examples above."
  created: '2007-06-07 13:36:32'
- author:
    name: reese
    picture: 109539
  body: "Scott,\r\nYup, I always found the biggest differences to be between \"strong\",
    \"sharp\" or \"none.\" I can't ever remember using crisp or smooth. Both add too
    much aliasing in a blurry way for my taste. \r\n\r\nDo you have CS3 and are saying
    there's really no improvement in the aliasing controls?\r\n\r\nThanks for the
    heads up on Fireworks. Between that and some of the vector controls that are nicer,
    it might be worth sucking up a few hundred bucks for. "
  created: '2007-06-07 18:00:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I tend to prefer Smooth - not least because my\r\nown grayscale pixelfonts
    rely on that setting.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-07 18:09:54'
- author:
    name: Scott D
    picture: 112474
  body: "I don't find Fireworks particularly useful, but there are a few things like
    text anti-aliasing and export options that would be nice to see in Photoshop.
    Who knows? It's all one company now. Maybe Adobe will start integrating Fireworks
    and Photoshop the way the used to do with Image Ready (a truly useless program).\r\n\r\nAs
    for CS3 -- I've heard there have been \"improvements\"  but I have yet to test
    them."
  created: '2007-06-07 21:34:22'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "<em>\"my own grayscale pixelfonts\"</em>\r\n\r\nHrant, do you know where
    I might look to learn about creating grayscale pixelfonts? Thanks."
  created: '2007-06-08 00:40:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The making of grayscale pixelfonts is a black art (pardon the pun).\r\nSomebody
    wanting to learn it from me would need to emulate Kis.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-08 02:20:35'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: watch your step. don't you remember "the sorcerer's apprentice"?
  created: '2007-06-08 03:58:40'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Hrant, I would attempt to emulate whatever you ask. Even 'Kis' if I knew
    what it was.\r\n\r\nI thought maybe you could just point me in the direction of
    some tutorials or specialist software. But if the process is a cunning contrivance
    you worked out for yourself, then fair enough.\r\n\r\nWould I be right in thinking
    it involves applying a virtual pixel grid in a vector font making program and
    then filling the virtual pixels with a percentage of solid vector that would equate
    to the subpixel sampling greyscale level?\r\n\r\nSorry. That sounded like I was
    masturbating pure techno jargon. But I think it made some sort of sense."
  created: '2007-06-08 04:44:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Kis had agreed to leave The Netherlands after learning punchcutting. I'm
    pretty sure you wouldn't like to engage in the cyberspace equivalent. :-)  So
    since you're bereft of a practical place to leave to...\r\n\r\nIt's not my invention,
    and I wouldn't call it \"cunning\" - although there typically is an \"Ah! Why
    didn't I think of that?!\" moment when one finds out the (main) trick: in terms
    of bezier mechanics, you simply need to think of a 4\xD74 subgrid. This is actually
    patented, but the patent owners (not me) have decided not the enforce it.* The
    way you get to a 4\xD74 subgrid pixelfont varies; ideally you use the Ultrafonts
    converter (don't ask for it dude) which saves you a <cite>lot</cite> of time,
    by taking a GIF image of a glyph matrix and spitting out a TT font; but you can
    roll your own too.\r\n\r\n* Like Mercedes does (used to do?) a lot in the interest
    of safety. Pure class.\r\n\r\nThe thing is though, the bezier mechanics is the
    (potentially) tedious, but easy part; the really hard, zen-mastery part is striking
    a quite peculiar balance, one not present in either 1-bit pixelfonts or outline
    fonts: a balance between design fidelity, crispness, and even color. When you
    get \"in the zone\" of this balance, it's really quite unlike anything else in
    type design, and it's very brain-draining to keep properly focused. Somewhat like
    kerning, but without anything to write on paper to keep yourself on track, and
    with a lot more guesswork, experimentation and definitely way more squinting.
    You literally find yourself moving your upper body like a cobra in a trance. And
    all this doesn't even address the gamma issue: between platforms, but also between
    normal and \"reverse-video\" setting.\r\n\r\nA totally different way is not to
    use an outline font, but to use something like BitFonter (now available for Windows
    - yay!) to produce a \"true\" bitmap font, which now can be grayscale, or even
    full color. But pixelfonts still have the advantage of being easier to deploy
    and more robust, especially cross-platform from what I gather.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-08 05:22:15'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "<em>\"So since you\u2019re bereft of a practical place to leave to\"</em>\r\n\r\nI
    wouldn't mind going to Transylvania to print bibles. It might be fun. For a weekend.\r\n\r\nThanks,
    Hrant, for your explanation. I'm not sure I understand everything you said. I
    shall commune with some spirits and hope for an epiphany or two.\r\n\r\nIf the
    Zen like process you speak of is like anti-aliasing by hand then I'm already rather
    adept thanks to years of pushing pixels in DPaint on an Amiga. Happy days.\r\n\r\nI
    would be satisfied with creating just one grey level for a pixel font in outline
    format. I wonder if I could generate a 50% grey pixel by dividing a single grid
    square into 2 equal triangles and leaving the outer one empty?\r\n\r\nHmmmm. Now
    where's that old copy of Fontographer?\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-08 21:16:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ah, a fellow Amigan! That explains a lot.  :-)\r\nYes, your previous experience
    would be invaluable here.\r\n\r\nBTW in practice you need at least 5 grays (I
    mean including black and white) to\r\nbreak into good usefulness; I originally
    made Mana-16 with only 4 grays, and\r\nyou can tell the compromise is too great.
    In the other two sizes I ended up using\r\nmost of the 17 (spooky number, I know)
    available grays.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-08 21:36:07'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Thanks, Hrant. Much appreciated.\r\n\r\nMay the voluptuous Amigan queens
    of the planet Amiga abduct you for sexual experimentation and fine cuisine testing."
  created: '2007-06-08 22:01:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well thank you - thank you very much.\r\nAnd I hope that \"and\" means \"integrated
    with\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-08 22:20:57'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Oh, of course. As you already know everything's better on planet Amiga.\r\n\r\n(Insert
    your own Amiga multi-tasking capability joke here.)"
  created: '2007-06-08 23:51:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Did somebody say... Fast RAM?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-09 00:08:32'
date: '2007-06-03 13:27:35'
title: How to "sharpen" the font?

---
