---
author:
  name: belleisle
body: "I live and work in London as a designer, and am appalled by the just revealed
  choice of logo design for the 2012 Olympics.\r\n\r\nI think it is a massive error
  of judgement by all concerned. It does not in the least reflect any design values
  that belong to London, and instead looks like the Olympic organisation is breaking
  up/smashed\r\n\r\nIt goes without saying that this is one of the premier commisions
  any designer could ever want, and is a travisty to the design talent that exists
  in  the UK (london).\r\n\r\nCan anyone be positive about this?"
comments:
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Hmm, can't say I like it very much.\r\n\r\nOn their website the logo is explaned:\r\n\"The
    new Olympic emblem is based on the number 2012 - the year the Games take place
    and includes the Olympic Rings and the word London.\" \u2013 I didn't see the
    numbers at first!\r\nApparently there are four colour versions of the logo, pink,
    blue, green and orange.\r\n\r\nAnd more:\r\n\"Launching the brand at the Roundhouse
    in North London, London 2012 Chair Seb Coe said: \"London 2012 will be 'Everyone's
    Games', everyone's 2012. This is the vision at the very heart of our brand.\"\r\n\r\nhttp://main.london2012.com/en/news/archive/2007/June/2007-06-04-12-06.htm"
  created: '2007-06-04 13:09:16'
- author:
    name: Matt Squire
  body: "Working in the Branding industry I cannot help but feel that this logo is
    a real let down. Years are spent on the bidding process and pitching phases with
    regards to just hosting the games. \r\n\r\nI remember an article by Bruno Maag
    in creative review about the importance of the olympics and how it should be treated
    with more respect. The Olympic games is a worldwide event and is a chance for
    countries to basically tell the world a little about themselves, their attitudes,
    their beliefs, their tradition, in an exciting way. \r\n\r\nI can understand what
    the logo is trying to do, trying to appeal to the younger generation by using
    the graffitti look and the bright colours but further than this it really seems
    to miss the whole point. \r\n\r\nThe logo is just the tip of the ice berg, it
    is a mark that is used to farmiliarise people with the brand. Below this there
    is a need for marketing, advertising, print material, films and novelty items
    such as flags, leaflets etc. If this is the standard that will dictate the design
    of these elements then I can only hope they take into consideration and try to
    understand a little of where the rest of the british people are coming from. \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2007-06-04 14:01:38'
- author:
    name: Matt Squire
  body: "You can view the film here and some of the people own designs are quite interesting.
    \r\n\r\nhttp://www.london2012.com/"
  created: '2007-06-04 14:12:45'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "the mark itself is kind of an interesting 'tangram' play on the year, but
    it's so GENERIC... it seems like they were waiting to see what city would be awarded
    the games, and they would plug in the name in as non-descipt a manner as possible.\r\n\r\noh
    well. there's always 2016."
  children:
  - author:
      name: belleisle
    body: "No the logo has beeen designed in the last year, to replace the bid logo.\r\n\r\nIn
      addition to my earlier rant, I understand the goals of the bid, 'everyones London'
      everybody getting off their backsides and getting motivated to become active
      and healthy.\r\n\r\nThe brand films are in fact quite good, its just the aesthetic
      of the logo is very very poor, and for that there is no excuse.\r\n\r\nPS. On
      other websites, people are saying it looks like Lisa Simpson perferming oral
      sex! - The '0' and second '2' "
    created: '2007-06-04 14:33:20'
  created: '2007-06-04 14:20:03'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Maybe it's purely coincidental, but I immediately got a brit-punk vibe from
    it:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.bside-rock.com/IMG/jpg/London-Calling.jpg\r\n\r\nIs it appropriate?
    I dunno. But different. Sometimes different is good.\r\n\r\nEDIT: and now after
    watching the video, I get a brit-new-wave vibe. \r\n\r\nI thought the video was
    great. I'm liking the logo now. It's definitely different. I think that's a good
    thing. I think it definitely has a london vibe to it. Slightly retro, but updated.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-04 14:59:58'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Lisa Simpson? Omg! Well, I didn\u2019t recognize the ciphers either\u2014what
    I saw was rather some moustached villain in a trenchcoat wth turned-up collars,
    who sprang from the <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maus\">Maus comic</a>,
    with London on his mind."
  created: '2007-06-04 15:05:14'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "@ aluminium: The colors say <a href=\"http://www.abc.net.au/myfavouritealbum/albumart/img/bollocks.jpg\">Sex
    Pistols</a>, not The Clash. ;)\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-04 15:07:29'
- author:
    name: sch2525
    picture: 112170
  body: You've got to be kidding. It's amazing how much the logos change from the
    bid to the actual games logo. Why not keep the same identity?
  created: '2007-06-04 15:08:54'
- author:
    name: belleisle
  body: "Lot of very unhappy Londoners...\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.gopetition.co.uk/petitions/change-the-london-2012-logo.html\">Online
    petition - Change The London 2012 Logo</a>"
  created: '2007-06-04 15:23:38'
- author:
    name: G T
    picture: 128201
  body: "I heard the lisa simpson thing also. \r\n\r\nIts trying to be New-Rave, so
    some trendy young hoxtonite has jammed the current musical influences into the
    design. Don't hate it but doesn't say much about London, England, or the olympics,
    it just seems stylized towards a current musical scene which is particular to
    here (london)."
  created: '2007-06-04 16:06:44'
- author:
    name: NigellaL
    picture: 111493
  body: It's bollocks.
  created: '2007-06-04 16:11:45'
- author:
    name: pbaber
  body: 'Dire. '
  created: '2007-06-04 16:49:16'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: 'Number five is pretty good: http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/in_pictures/6719747.stm'
  created: '2007-06-04 16:55:24'
- author:
    name: Duckworth
  body: "It's a stinker. It looks, well, 80s-looking; it's just naff. I bet the design
    brief said 'must look vibrant and appealing'. I have to admit that I thought the
    Thames 'ribbon' bid logo was as bad as it got. Ouch.\r\n\r\nWell, not everything
    can be a portfolio piece!\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-04 17:21:32'
- author:
    name: joeking_tp
  body: "\r\nFirst thoughts - awful.\r\nI kept looking at it and then saw the jagged
    2012 numerals. A bit less awful.\r\nIt seems to be breaking up. Fragmented, choppy,
    sharp, what's the point of the offset yellow drop shadow?"
  created: '2007-06-04 18:21:39'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: I loved the Evolution of Man graphic at the bottom of number 5!
  created: '2007-06-04 18:26:47'
- body: "Please tell me you're kidding ... the number \"five\" I see (pasted below)
    is positively hideous -- and insanely unusable as a logo.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lon1212_6359.JPG]"
  created: '2007-06-04 18:57:56'
- author:
    name: Toby
    picture: 109971
  body: "I think it looks like sh*t.. looks like a guy who\xB4s just been shot in
    the stomach"
  created: '2007-06-04 19:15:38'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "The zero looks like Australia, no? \r\n\r\n>It\u2019s bollocks.\r\n\r\nNevermind...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-04 19:37:37'
- author:
    name: do
    picture: 112565
  body: "whilst the logo should reflect contemporary London (which to some extent
    this does) it shouldn't lose sight of the city's heritage - and there is no trace
    of this in the logo.  It smacks of '2007' NME culture - new rave, the Klaxons,
    glow sticks etc... \r\n\r\nalso has an unccany resemblance to the jagged interlocking
    shapes of the typeface used for the Arctic Monkeys recent 'Brianstorm' single:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Brianstorm_3447.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1542899_0_4194.jpg]"
  created: '2007-06-04 20:23:03'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "of course i was kidding. it's horrible! (and i was joking about the evolution
    graphic at the bottom, too)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lon1212_6359_5474.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/EvolutionOfMan_5293.jpg]"
  created: '2007-06-04 20:31:43'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Number 11 Rules! (Referring to the alternates in the BBC article.)\r\n\r\nThe
    final mark takes a lot of risks, that the otherwise safe (too conservative) execution
    does not support it or payoff the risks and the result is bad. The \"brand video\"
    they produced is the most interesting piece, but the logo itself doesn't live
    up to it. The site design as a component of the whole brand picture is also a
    let down. The Duplo color palette is carried through, but because of the lack
    of interesting composition there's no connection to the energy in the video.\r\n\r\nThe
    London Olympics, as established by the logo and the brand site, is now a low budget,
    kids television program."
  created: '2007-06-04 20:35:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'The brand video is at least a fine example of truth in advertising: in 2012
    every aspect of London life is going to be frenetically invaded by the Olympics,
    and the logo is a good warning sign not to bother visiting London that year.'
  created: '2007-06-05 00:34:48'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "Come on people. Same thing every time with a big sports event. I remember
    the discussion about the 2006 world cup logo (football/soccer) in Germany. OK,
    it sucked. But. 11 designers stated they could do better. Well, actually most
    of them couldn\u2019t ImO. Come up with something better!"
  created: '2007-06-05 00:52:15'
- author:
    name: munsonbh
  body: "<cite>Same thing every time with a big sports event.</cite>\r\n\r\nSure there
    are some bad tourney logos out there, but it's the Summer Olympics! Home of amazing
    posters (Montr\xE9al), beautiful ID systems (Los Angeles) and this great little
    piece of iconography from Moscow. It's in Russian and more readable to me than
    the London caveman mark.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/moscow1980_6123.gif]\r\n\r\nHorton\r\nFounder,
    <a href=\"http://www.thisdayintype.com\" target=\"_blank\">This Day in Type</a>"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Jan
      picture: 112311
    body: "Yeah. It looks Stalin OK. And if it hadn\u2019t been the Soviet Union then
      there would have been the same discussion going on. Posters and ID systems aren\u2019t
      Logos btw. Design a Logo for the London Olympics and post it!"
    created: '2007-06-05 01:22:54'
  created: '2007-06-05 01:13:11'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Role over Wolff Olins.\r\nShame on you.\r\n\r\n'This is the vision at the
    very heart of our brand'\r\n\r\nPASS ME THE STAKE\r\n\r\n(I will not be revoking
    this comment)"
  created: '2007-06-05 02:38:25'
- author:
    name: munsonbh
  body: "Oi, Jan. I have a solid rebuttal to everything you wrote, but it won't do
    either of us any good. The only thing I would like to point out for the record
    is that <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corporate_identity\">ID systems
    include logos</a>.\r\n\r\nHorton\r\nFounder, <a href=\"http://www.thisdayintype.com\"
    target=\"_blank\">This Day in Type</a>"
  created: '2007-06-05 06:22:11'
- author:
    name: dyana
    picture: 110583
  body: "From the press release: \"the new emblem is modern and will be dynamic, evolving
    in the years between now and 2012.\"\r\n\r\nThis makes me think there is more
    to the logo than we've seen. Could be interesting.\r\n\r\nI don't think it's too
    horrible, aside from the fact I originally thought it was the red maple from the
    Canadian flag. Most of the alternatives on the BBC site were much worse (#1 could
    be great with a few touch-ups - 11 is fantastic, of course). Probably a product
    of design by committee. I can see scores of Olympics organizers weighing in with
    what they think is good design, the designers being pressured to comply, and the
    end result being an unsatisfying compromise for everyone."
  created: '2007-06-05 06:43:38'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "What is the purpose of a logo?\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-06-05 08:03:08'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">logo should be a dynamic, forward thinking summing up of London and its
    hosting of the Olympic games\r\n\r\n\u2013 is that possible?\r\n\u2013 is that
    desirable?\r\n\r\nI am still on the fence about the logo, although it does make
    better sense having seen the motion graphics.\r\n\r\nTim\r\n\r\nBTW Darrel \u2013\_you
    probably already knew this but\r\nhttp://www.loc.gov/exhibits/british/images/vc265.jpg"
  created: '2007-06-05 08:38:45'
- author:
    name: belleisle
  body: "Update for non-UK readers...\r\n\r\nBBC TV news ran a piece hinting that
    the organisers are looking at a few tweaks.\r\nIn other words they are going to
    try and dig themselves out of a very large hole and change the thing?.\r\n\r\nSomeone
    mentioned Childrens TV. This was a logo for 'TISWAS' a Saturday morning kids TV
    show in the 70's.\r\n\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/magazine/6719805.stm"
  created: '2007-06-05 09:16:23'
- author:
    name: sayerhs
    picture: 112341
  body: "gah! i say..who on earth designed it? and how in the name of heaven did they
    pass it off as a logo for the olympic games??!\r\nThings like this cause a lot
    of disillusion in me.\r\n\r\n:(\r\nshreyas"
  created: '2007-06-05 09:55:24'
- author:
    name: belleisle
  body: "Wolff Olins produced the logo/brand.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.wolff-olins.com/"
  children:
  - author:
      name: joeking_tp
    body: 'That website is a bit annoying. Slow, it doesn''t fit in my browser (I''ve
      got lots of toolbars, have to use zoom out on the flash player). '
    children:
    - author:
        name: bruno_maag
      body: "Is that our website you're referring to, or the official Olympic one?
        If it's ours then you've got your wires crossed as we don't use Flash. In
        fact, at our Flash is akin to the Devil, the Evil incarnate. \r\n\r\nThe previous
        comment about being tasteless - fair dos. However, our rendition is a pastiche
        on the logo and expresses what we fell about this logo.\r\n\r\nWhat disappoints
        me most is that I know people at Wolff Olins. They are good designers, very
        good ones and in many cases I have applauded their work. You only have to
        look at the Unilever logo - a master piece. It appears, though, as if WO is
        not so much concerned with design anymore but with brand strategy. And for
        good measure they'll throw in a bit of design. \r\n\r\nWe have to realise
        that WO like ourselves and many other design agencies are businesses. These
        top agencies charge buckets of money for their work and when the money is
        public, or from the lottery funds, as the majority of the fee is in this case,
        I think I have a right to high quality work. And this ain't.\r\n\r\nYes, maybe
        we were a little bit over the top in saying that London's design industry
        is at stake. But whilst the public may care more about the 100m than the logo
        design, We have the issue that London has a thriving media industry *because*
        of it's high creative and production skills. And something so public for the
        next five years can damage a reputation. \r\n\r\nDesign is not all about the
        great idea. Much of design is grunt work, it's application and usage. This
        does not go beyond an idea. In order to make it really great, WO would have
        done well to commission Banksy or a similar high profile and highly skilled
        artist to convert their initial thoughts. I think much better work would have
        come out of it. But, of course that would also have meant that their profit
        margin would not have been as high since Banksy does not work for free either.\r\n\r\nBruno
        Maag"
      created: '2007-06-05 19:04:37'
    created: '2007-06-05 17:49:05'
  created: '2007-06-05 10:27:11'
- author:
    name: tomhowe
  body: "So, what typeface is being used and what do we all know about it?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-05 11:25:41'
- author:
    name: Duckworth
  body: Well, I posted a comment that was pretty damning of the London 2012 logo -
    and, although I could edit it, I'm going to let it stand even though I think I've
    made a mistake. Having lastnight seen how it conveys a sense of energy, I'm growing
    to like it! My gut feelings (see post above) were negative, but I really don't
    think companies such as Wolff Ollins get it wrong. I'm still really unsure of
    the supporting elements (the animated visual style is very 80s dance graphics),
    but I think the logo is already doing its job. I think the organisers will be
    pleased about the press and news prominience this has got - which I don't think
    would happen with a 'safe' logo which would likely go unnoticed. It's really going
    to start mattering in a few years time so to judge it now is really premature.
    The one thing that this logo is, is different - and that's pretty important.
  created: '2007-06-05 13:29:23'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I'm surprised at the almost unanimous hatred towards this mark.\r\n\r\nAdmittedely,
    from a typography standpoint, it's lacking, but as an overal logo and part of
    the larger ID system (including the motion graphics) I can't really argue against
    it. It seems to work.\r\n\r\nThere are bad logos, and then there are controversial
    logos. I think this is the latter. Not necessarily bad, but those that find it
    bad, REALLY find it bad and are quite loud about it.\r\n\r\nA bland logo would
    have likely been a poorer solution, but ultimately would probably not have provoked
    that many folks to care as much about it.\r\n\r\n\"The one thing that this logo
    is, is different - and that\u2019s pretty important.\"\r\n\r\nWell said."
  created: '2007-06-05 14:40:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "This interesting <a href=\"http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/06/04/AR2007060401875.html\">Washington
    Post article on the logo</a> reports a huge negative reaction in Britain to the
    logo. \r\n\r\nDoes being polarizing help in some way? I don't really know. I just
    can't imagine that having a majority of people instantly hate it was a goal. In
    that respect, at least, it has fallen short.  "
  created: '2007-06-05 14:45:10'
- author:
    name: seventy7
    picture: 111185
  body: "I actually really like the logo. It has an interesting energy. And I'm so
    glad it stayed away from clich\xE9 iconography like the Tube, Big Ben and the
    London Eye. \r\n\r\nI'm sceptical about all this logo-hating. I believe we have
    a case of group-think happening. It's popular to dislike the logo and nobody wants
    to be unpopular.\r\n\r\nAre there any blogs defending the logo?"
  created: '2007-06-05 15:00:17'
- author:
    name: seventy7
    picture: 111185
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.bbc.co.uk/blogs/sporteditors/2007/06/why_we_should_give_london_2012.html\">Found
    one.</a>\r\n\r\nBut the author admittedly doesn't like the logo."
  created: '2007-06-05 15:03:25'
- author:
    name: sch2525
    picture: 112170
  body: A local public access kids' show produced in Boston:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/zoom_picture_3724.jpg]
  created: '2007-06-05 15:12:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Good things about the logo: \r\n\r\nDynamic, energetic, upbeat, good balance--artistically
    very well executed.\r\n\r\nHarmonizes with appealing and successful motion graphics.
    (It works as part of these better than on its own.)\r\n\r\nBad things:\r\n\r\nSecond
    2 illegible. Serious problem. \r\n\r\nToo self-conscious--draws attention to itself
    rather than the Olympic games. \r\n\r\nCut out + candy colors gives too child-like
    message for Olympic games (see Scott's post).\r\n\r\nTrying too hard to be 'trendy'
    and just missing. \r\n\r\n[edit:] In sum, for the purpose of promoting the Olympic
    Games, disconcertingly inappropriate, off-key, a sour note. Hence the reaction. "
  created: '2007-06-05 15:21:04'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Again, in the cold light of day I still find it utterly objectionable.
  created: '2007-06-05 15:26:24'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I think it's hideous - I didn't read the 2012 at all. It looks like a sad
    older woman who's trying way too hard to look like she's still one of the kids.
    \r\n\r\nBut I don't think this is a case of logo-bashing. It's rare for these
    design-by-committee processes to actually yield anything with a lot of design
    integrity. There have been threads in praise of logos on this forum plenty of
    times, or threads where the opinion is more balanced.\r\n\r\nI can't get the Lisa
    Simpson visual out of my mind... ouch.\r\n\r\nIs the Moscow logo trying to imply
    that Muscovites have 5 testicles instead of the customary 2?"
  created: '2007-06-05 15:30:59'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Besides, you really can't top this for SUPERCOOL Olympic graphics\r\n\r\nhttp://www.okscg.org.yu/i119e.htm\r\n\r\nMy
    parents have an ashtray from that Olympics, and if they ever throw it away I will
    be forced to kill them."
  created: '2007-06-05 15:36:27'
- author:
    name: bruno_maag
  body: "We've just released our opinion on our website, plus our visual take on it:
    http://www.daltonmaag.com/news/61.html\r\n\r\nBruno Maag"
  created: '2007-06-05 15:37:58'
- author:
    name: seventy7
    picture: 111185
  body: "Patty:\r\nI am mostly referring to the masses. I'm not surprised to see typographers
    and graphic designers spouting harsh critiques. We're an opinionated bunch and
    the logo is at first jarring. I agree completely with your design-by-committee
    comment. Very true. \r\n\r\nI just believe there's an inherent danger in \"unveiling\"
    a new design. In doing so the logo is put on display, almost requesting a reaction.
    With this design being so unexpected, people will stick to their first impressions.
    I think that unveling the logo without the support of context and additional branding
    elements (motion graphics, systems, photogrpahy) makes it bound to not quite connect
    with people. \r\n\r\nAnd then there's the culture issue. Londoners are certianly
    arguing over what cultural element is missing from the logo. This is why committees
    often ruin the design process. \"We can't agree, so let's just use little abstract
    woodcut-style people holding hands in a circle.\""
  created: '2007-06-05 15:50:28'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "Dalton Maag makes some very good points, and some very over the top ones.\r\n\r\nIn
    my opinion, the logo falls short because it doesn't communicate WELL, and it's
    unfortunate only because of the missed opportunity. \r\n\r\nD-M hit it when they
    said that by trying to be trendy, Wolff Ollins (and the committee) trapped themselves
    into being dated. And by 2012, well, I imagine the designers will be thinking,
    \"it SEEMED like a good idea...\"\r\n\r\nGoofy type treatments can be effective
    (Taco Bell got away with using Fajita for years), but they should be communicative.\r\n\r\nBut
    D-M's assertion that the Olympic logo will destroy British design credibility
    throughout the visually-literate world is a silly overstatement. And in the end,
    I think the public is going to worry a lot more about the 50-m sprint time than
    they will about four tangram shapes and some weak typography."
  created: '2007-06-05 16:01:44'
- author:
    name: WhitePepper
    picture: 111069
  body: "The reaction to this has clearly spiraled out of control, with what was initial
    shock snowballing into public uproar at the \xA3400,000 price tag. People are
    taking this to mean that it cost \xA3400,000 to produce a single logo and are
    not looking at the bigger picture of the overall branding concept and it's development.\r\n\r\nLooking
    at the video http://www.london2012.com I admit it looks like an 80's kids TV show,
    and am still undecided on it's suitability of delivery, but it does carry a vibrancy
    and energy to the event with a  bold statement that sets this aside from previous
    Games. Perhaps the logo alone might not quite hit this mark, but seen alongside
    the rest of the branding (as it will be) I can potentially see it working.\r\n\r\nI
    think much rather see a brave move like this than a bland and cliched logo that
    would be instantly forgettable."
  created: '2007-06-05 17:04:33'
- author:
    name: Duckworth
  body: ">\"We\u2019ve just released our opinion on our website, plus our visual take
    on it: http://www.daltonmaag.com/news/61.html\"\r\n\r\nAm I the only one who thinks
    this is a bit tasteless? If I don't like another agency's design work, that's
    fine, but to mudsling in a professional capacity? It ain't great."
  created: '2007-06-05 17:13:40'
- author:
    name: pbaber
  body: "\"I think much rather see a brave move like this than a bland and cliched
    logo that would be instantly forgettable.\"\r\n\r\nAnd I would much rather see
    a well designed, well considered and inspiring logo. \r\n\r\nIt should makes us
    think \"f*ck \u2014 that's great\" \u2013 not \"atleast it's not bland and cliched.\"
    \r\n\r\nIt's horrific, and however hyperbolic and knee-jerk this sounds, I am
    struggling to find anything at all positive to say about it."
  created: '2007-06-05 18:00:15'
- author:
    name: pbaber
  body: "And I don't see anything wrong with what Dalton Maag wrote on their site
    \u2014 why is expressing criticism of another companies work mudslinging?\r\n\r\nThis
    attitude that we shouldn't exercise our opinion of another companies work is what
    gives us this culture of critical apathy in the design industry \u2014 just bung
    a bit of work in an magazine with a bit of supporting text and that's it.\r\n\r\nDesigners
    have every right to openly criticize another designers work \u2014 even more so
    if it is a job like the Olympics which is very much in the public domain, and
    which ultimately reflects back on to every designer in that country."
  created: '2007-06-05 18:23:53'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: ChuckGroth, I think it is damaging to British design credibility. You only
    have to look at the rhetoric of the comments on the BBC website, and the suggested
    alternatives to understand that design like this undermines the industry; every
    man and his dog believes that they can do better than a highly paid agency. This
    does nothing for the reputation of other professional designers.
  created: '2007-06-05 18:24:31'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "I agree with pbaber.\r\n\r\nWe are taught throughout our education to be
    critical. I have no intention of stopping.\r\n\r\nApathy, everywhere."
  created: '2007-06-05 18:31:30'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "If you drink a weak cup of coffee, would you condemn all coffee (and don't
    anyone dare condemn coffee)?\r\n\r\nI do not believe that anyone would think \"British
    designers are overpaid, undertalented hacks\" on the basis of the Olympic logo.
    Just as I wouldn't expect anyone to listen to U2  and proclaim \"All Irish pop
    musicians are overly dramatic and self-important!\" That would be absurd. People
    will yell and scream about the logo for a little while, because it's news. "
  created: '2007-06-05 18:37:15'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: But I don't mind criticizing the logo; I don't like it, and I've said so.
  created: '2007-06-05 18:40:33'
- author:
    name: Duckworth
  body: I'm not opposed to expression of criticism - but I think that something like
    that should be a personal blog post (or an entry on the Typophile forum!) rather
    than a corporate site news feature. Maybe it's just me, (it would seem so), but
    I would be uncomfortable if my employer openly criticised a competitor's work
    in an online post. Logo aside, I just don't think it's professional.
  created: '2007-06-05 18:52:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Have any of the comentators blamed the Greeks yet? By taking Gill Sans for
    the Athens games a few years back they claimed rights to the only typeface that
    Londoners might unite behind. '
  created: '2007-06-05 19:09:03'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "Bruno Maag-\r\n\r\nI respect your admission that it might have been over
    the top. I also respect your love for the industry as a whole and your design
    community specifically. I really do. When I see something that could reflect poorly
    on the public's perception of my college, or community, or anything I hold dear,
    I cringe and wring my hands. But I honestly do not believe that intelligent people
    will make broad assumptions of British design based on one example. There are
    (and always have been) some incredibly talented English designers and some that
    are woeful. Just like everywhere else."
  created: '2007-06-05 19:13:47'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "My personal opinion about the 2012 London Olympics is that the logo is not
    as bad as it seems. When I first saw it I thought to myself: \"They must be joking\".
    But after some time and reading the article on BBC I became to like it.\r\n\r\nI
    think the most important thing in the article was: <cite>...the new emblem is
    modern and will be dynamic, evolving in the years between now and 2012...</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    think what they're trying to do is something no one has done it before. Change
    and evolve the logo in a short period of time. Not as logos evolve through time
    but for the exact purpose. Evolve the logo as part of the identity. It starts
    very basic but it will evolve into something more mature. The committee has probably
    seen the complete change process and therefore they chose this one.\r\n\r\nIf
    this will be the case I'd say WOW WHAT A GREAT IDEA! Let's wait and see."
  created: '2007-06-05 19:49:35'
- author:
    name: belleisle
  body: "Its worth repeating, I think the underlying concept is good for the brand.\r\nThe
    fact it's different, takes risks is a good thing.\r\n\r\nThe thing that really,
    really gets me is the mindblowingly poor execution of the ideas into a downright
    ugly piece of 'typographics' for the end use logo. It has no aethetic appeal or
    balance or style... (I could go on). And for that there is NO excuse.\r\n\r\nThe
    logo has started to appear in sponsors corporate ads in the newspapers and it
    clearly does not work small amongest competing logo(s). The corporate typeface
    they have designed is just as bad, but in my anger I don't have the will to address
    that yet. \r\n\r\nThese commisions are never easy, designed-by-committee brandings
    etc. With such a public project and the fact that other designers will have to
    incorporate it into their work, they have have a responsibility not to f*** it
    up and at least produce something that adheres to basic design principles of space,
    proportion, readability etc etc etc.\r\n\r\nThis piece of work, on that basis,
    is indefensible."
  created: '2007-06-05 20:47:41'
- author:
    name: peterj
  body: 'oh and it gets better--the film is giving people epileptic seizures: http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/england/london/6724245.stm'
  created: '2007-06-06 02:29:06'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: this reminds me of the 'killer joke' bit from monty python...
  created: '2007-06-06 02:38:45'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "\"does your logo hurt?\"\r\n\r\n\"no, why?\"\r\n\r\n\"'cause it's killing
    me!\""
  created: '2007-06-06 02:43:20'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "One designer criticizing another\u2019s work is fine, and does not happen
    enough. But posting a critique on one\u2019s business website is tacky, and if
    it were a common practice the business world would see the design community as
    a bunch of bitchy little gossips who carry out online catfights. Submitting an
    article to a site like Design Observer, or to a magazine like Eye, is a better
    way to go, and keeps designers looking professional in our customer minds."
  created: '2007-06-06 03:21:25'
- author:
    name: devils son
  body: The logo does indeed suck, but it's a refreshing moment when concerns that
    are mostly confined to forums like this website attract the attention of the general
    public.
  created: '2007-06-06 03:37:45'
- author:
    name: jmickel
    picture: 111302
  body: "Wow. I would love to get paid $800,000 to design that. Or is that \xA3800,000?
    That would be even better.\r\n\r\nDoes that appear to be an italicized, basterdized
    version of Eric Olson's Strata slapped on there? (and for some reason there does
    not appear to be an italic available commercially)"
  created: '2007-06-06 03:56:55'
- author:
    name: Richard Hards
    picture: 110084
  body: "Sii\r\n\r\n<cite>\"the only typeface that Londoners might unite behind.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nJohnston
    (in one of it's many guises) would probably have a similar pull, but I expect
    <a href=\"http://www.tfl.gov.uk/tfl/corporate/media/fonts/\" target=\"new\">Transport
    for London</a> wouldn't let them use it.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-06 05:47:38'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "That epilepsy thing is HILARIOUS!!!\r\n\r\nI once heard that Mary Hart's
    voice sent people into epileptic seizures. Loved that."
  created: '2007-06-06 05:51:06'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "I really like it!\r\nFirst, the openness of the idea, the \"not thinking
    static\" concept. \r\nSecond, everyone could get involved in the concept, from
    young children to animation designers to \u2026 \r\nI just see the logo as a pause
    within an animation. \r\n "
  created: '2007-06-06 08:20:18'
- author:
    name: noftus
    picture: 111246
  body: "Favourites from the previously mentioned <a href=\"http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/in_pictures/6719747.stm\">BBC
    website</a>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/_43007281_graham_coe416_6138.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/_43010067_richard_416_3434.jpg]"
  created: '2007-06-06 08:54:03'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "^ gotta admin that that secons 2012don logo is clever.\r\n\r\n\"Are there
    any blogs defending the logo?\"\r\n\r\nCoudal Partners have a nice write-up:\r\n\r\nhttp://coudal.com/olympics.php\r\n\r\nThey
    like the logo, but regardless of that, they seem to have offered a decent design
    critique.\r\n\r\nA lot of the 'I hate it' rants against this logo seem to be lacking
    any tangible design critique (with a few exceptions).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-06 14:47:28'
- author:
    name: DaveyJJ
  body: "Oh what a horrible mess. I think in my two decades of design I've yet to
    see such a horrible, horrible mess of a logo. If anyone in my shop had designed
    that as anything other than a inside gag I'd have to sack them on the spot. There
    wasn't a single student of 102 at the 4th year grad class at the York U design
    show I attended that couldn't have done much much better. It's not wonder why
    our profession isn't taken seriously by so many. Please tell me it's a joke. Wake
    me up please. \r\n\r\nAnd here are some designer critiques ... how will that reproduce
    on the arm of a t-shirt 1/3 of an inch square (it won't)? How will it look on
    a variety of different devices (that colour reproduces horribly between screen,
    print, etc)? In what way does it represent London? Why did they use two different
    \"2s\"? In what way do those garish colours not offend people overt th age of
    four? In what way is it something as a brand you want to embrace? \r\n\r\nDaveyJJ
    <-- WidgetMonkey"
  created: '2007-06-06 15:53:13'
- author:
    name: fnf
  body: "I think the point about the public debate over the design almost instantly
    turning into a series of 'I could do that for $800,000' editorials is an important
    one, regardless of whether they are supported with informed design critiques.\r\n\r\nWhy?
    \ Because each Olympic logo is a very mass-oriented, public icon and its (now)
    biennial announcement is perhaps one of the most internationally scrutinized design
    events we experience as a global culture.  The average Joe doesn't start a petition
    to overturn a re-branding of Gap, but he will naturally respond if he feels his
    home city/nation is being misrepresented by a private firm invited to work with
    the public's interests in mind.  It's an opportunity for designers to showcase
    the profession on the largest scale, and the production of a brand that is so
    utterly misunderstood (no matter its artistic merits) inevitably impacts the perception
    of the field as a whole.\r\n\r\nI do think Coudal Partners present a compelling
    argument for the viability of the logo..."
  created: '2007-06-06 16:02:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I think it's great.\r\nIt's not like any previous Olympic logos, and not
    many high-visibility logos look like this.\r\nSo why not have a high profile identity?\r\nThose
    are the most important criteria, IMO, and the fact that it is actually drawn (or
    rendered) to have an aesthetic balance. (As was DM's \"TOSH\", be it noted.)\r\nThe
    idea that any kid could have done it won't wash, as that can be said of amny an
    excellent logo, going back to the Bass triangle. Maybe that should be considered
    a feature, not a bug.\r\n\r\nI may have been desensitized to the horribleness
    of this kind of thing by recent designs in my home town, such as the Liebeskind
    extension to the local museum:\r\nhttp://www.rom.on.ca/crystal/index.php\r\nand
    the OCAD box on stilts:\r\nhttp://www.kunstler.com/eyesore_200311.html\r\n\r\nIt
    could also be argued that any logo which gets people talking is good; let's face
    it, the country/town that has the Turner Prize deserves have this kind of Olympic
    logo, ennit.\r\n\r\nMy final point -- have you ever tried to design something
    that's really \"awful?\" And not just a pastiche of something else -- DM's spoof
    is a little too slick, which ironically highlights the logo's merit. The criticism
    is often to look at something different and say, oh, it's like this other stuff,
    only not as good -- when in fact that's just the closest referent, and not really
    addressing the same issues at all.\r\n\r\nAs for professional criticism, I think
    it's fair game to go after the work, as long as you don't trash the designer.
    After all, nobody scores every time they hit the ball.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-06 16:31:44'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: "According to ZDNet, there was an animated video clip promoting the logo on
    the organizer's website that was later removed because the animation caused epileptic
    attacks in susceptible viewers. Apparently (hah), the four-second video clip failed
    something called the Harding FPA test. The BBC says a viewer called in and said
    his girlfriend had a seizure while watching the clip, and an organization called
    Charity Epilepsy Action claims that various people suffered seizures while watching
    the animation. This all applies to the promotional video clip, not the logo itself.\r\n\r\nhttp://news.zdnet.com/2100-3513_22-6188994.html\r\n\r\nAlso,
    ZDNet is associating the colors used in the logo to the Kromofons stuff I posted
    about earlier. The link is in the sixth paragraph down, the one that reads \"Critics
    of the emblem have described it as 'hideous,' while organizers called it powerful
    and modern.\"\r\n\r\nI wonder if typography has ever been tied to epilepsy...?\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-06 16:37:04'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I don't think the criticism centers on the fact that it's different - I applaud
    that. I just don't like it. I don't think the shapes work well together, don't
    think 2012 reads clearly enough, don't think the word London or the Olympic rings
    are well integrated, not wild about the yellow vibration around it. Conceptually
    it's fine IMO, looks like an interesting start. But it's not there yet. If I were
    da boss I'd send the kid back to mess around with it some more. I really dislike
    the little pink box in the middle, it looks like they were trying to fill a hole
    in the design.
  created: '2007-06-06 16:56:12'
- author:
    name: sayerhs
    picture: 112341
  body: "i agree. Its cool to be different. But at what cost? The logo is just confusing.\r\n\r\nshreyas"
  created: '2007-06-06 17:58:04'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Nick\r\n\r\nI'm not sure if you mean to make a direct comparrisson between
    the Liebskind extension and the Olympic logo but they really are in separate worlds.
    Liebskind is an advocate of modernity, the Olympic logo is a pastiche.\r\n\r\nThe
    media et al\r\n\r\nThe logo is not 'modern'. \r\nIt alludes to a current, faddish
    80's/90's revival in London (new rave, as previous posts have pointed out). Unless
    you are aqquainted with this form of culture then you will fail to see the context
    of the debate in London. To me it smacks of an exercise in trend research, i.e.
    let's pick up a few copies of ID, Vice, Pop magazine, whatever. When any subculture
    is absorbed by the mainstream it quickly reinvents itself. I'm pretty confident
    this process has already begun.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-06 18:46:40'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "I hope, for everyone's sake, that the evolutionary theory is correct. We
    may be looking at the deconstructed pink rock child of the final design.\r\n\r\nThe
    broken window may unbreak over time with the contrived help of 'consumer contributions'
    and jagged lines could gradually evolve into fluid curves and ribbons.\r\n\r\nTo
    defend it with praise for just being 'edgy' and 'controversial' is weak. Those
    qualities are neither primary or enough in themselves.\r\n\r\nThe promo video
    looked more suitable for a mental health charity and I expected it to end with
    a slogan like 'mental illness can affect us all'. I'm not epileptic but it even
    made me feel uncomfortable in a post rave comedown kinda way."
  created: '2007-06-06 18:49:57'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I'm moving more and more towards the Coudal/Nick Shinn camps. ;o)\r\n\r\nNot
    picking on Dave specifically, just that his comments seem to echo most other's
    as well...\r\n\r\n\"Oh what a horrible mess. I think in my two decades of design
    I\u2019ve yet to see such a horrible, horrible mess of a logo.\"\r\n\r\nThis kind
    of comment is just overly dramatic. Walk down any street and you will find dozens
    of logos worse than this one...both in terms of aesthetics and quality of design.\r\n\r\n\"There
    wasn\u2019t a single student of 102 at the 4th year grad class at the York U design
    show I attended that couldn\u2019t have done much much better.\"\r\n\r\nThis,
    too, seems to be a repeated mantra and is completely irrelevant in the context
    of the real world business of design. This logo was not the creation of one intern
    sitting at a desk in the back room earning 800k for the company. Admittedly, this
    is just a guess, but I'd have to say there was at least a dozen folks involved
    on the client side of this? And an international Olympic committee? And likely
    a London committee? And, and, and...etc...\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-06 19:00:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think I've figured it out! This is all a distraction\r\ntactic so people
    don't realize how bangers-sucking\r\nbad British athletes are.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-06 19:43:52'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "I think it is an appropriate representation/statement of where we are now
    as a people and as a global society. And because of that it fails. And yes, as
    Nick alluded to it does have design references that are currently being practiced
    throughout the arts - Deconstructivism.\r\n\r\nI don't like this design, and I
    don't dislike this design - either way, the design is bullshit. It does nothing
    to develope the Individual from within - and isn't that the true nature of the
    games - To be the best you can be?\r\n\r\nAnd this is where the design fails -
    and fails us all as people. The design echoes the ignorance of Libes and Gehry
    et al, who need to generate '-isms' to justify their ignorance and to some extent
    their desperation to be heard above the crowd.\r\n\r\nThis logo comes from and
    goes to the corporatizing of 'you'. And just as there is the bullshit of today's
    deconstructivism - tomorrow 'you' will be repackaged in another -ism.\r\n \r\nEither
    way 'you' will not be strengthened as an Individual.\r\n\r\n_________\r\nHiro"
  created: '2007-06-06 20:46:53'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>their desperation to be heard above the crowd.</cite>\r\n\r\napplies
    to some typophiles too, no? \r\n\r\nSpeaking of Gehry, I read about the f**k Frank
    Gehry t-shirt, a big seller in Brooklyn (his latest stomping ground) by the guy
    who made money with the f**k yoga shirt a few years back.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.newyorker.com/talk/2007/06/04/070604ta_talk_collins"
  created: '2007-06-06 20:56:42'
- author:
    name: distributedhuman
  body: "To me Frank Gehry's architecture is not pretty, but I love his work because
    it's so shocking, powerful, and fun. So I really like the new Olympic logo!\r\n\r\nThe
    epilepsy thing is not new to me. We have designed some web banners with moderate
    animations/effects and the client got complains that it would have caused seizures,
    so we needed to take them down."
  created: '2007-06-06 21:08:17'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Gehry's work was shocking once, and creative, and beautiful sometimes. But
    it's become shtick at this point. And it just isn't right for so many situations,
    like the Brooklyn project.
  created: '2007-06-06 21:17:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This epileptics, dyslexics, etc. stuff majorly pisses me off. It's not that
    I think they should be discriminated against, and I try to help people in need;
    plus most of them try not to make everybody else miserable, but you never hear
    about those ones - you only hear about the minority intent on extolling revenge
    for their unenviable condition. Have a goddam warning at the beginning of the
    video, don't nix the pleasure for everybody else; the rest is friggin' natural
    selection - stop trying to bypass Nature, goddam control freaks.\r\n\r\nI'm sure
    this will trigger some politically-correct, bleeding-heart outrage, but I'm telling
    you in advance to save everybody the agony: think whatever you like, but you don't
    understand me, so go stuff your complaining up the wazoo.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-06 21:19:19'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: Well said Hrant. I think we can all agree that strobing effects enhance our
    lives significantly and it would certainly be a sad loss to us all if the strobing
    was removed from the 2012 promos.
  created: '2007-06-06 22:07:13'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I don\u2019t like this design, and I don\u2019t dislike this design - either
    way, the design is bullshit\"\r\n\r\nI wanted to like your comment, Hiroshige,
    but the more I read it, the more I felt that it, too, was just Bullshit. And that's
    not meant to be an insult by anymeans. It's just that I think that most of what
    we do as commercial artists is bullshit anyways. Yea, so the logo is bullshit.
    Why is that bad? It's just to advertise the olympics. Does it NEED to do more
    than that? I can't say I've seen too many logos that \"have strengthened me as
    an Individual\"\r\n\r\nAs for the epilepsy, my wife suffered from photo-sensitive
    epilepsy. And I gotta gree with hrant. I imagine there were one or two complaints
    and that was blown up a bit, but seems as if you could get one or two complaints
    from any trendy TV drama that latches on to the jerky-camera 10-shots a second
    style these days (NOT that they shouldn't fix this issue, of course).\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-06 22:09:24'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: strobing and coffee.
  created: '2007-06-06 22:45:47'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: And in classic fashion (a day late and .8 euros short) CNN has decided to
    weigh in on the topic. If Wolf Blitzer hates the logo, it's doomed...
  created: '2007-06-06 22:48:55'
- author:
    name: acrobat
  body: when extremes become mainstream
  created: '2007-06-06 23:17:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Andrew, I think that being sensational is a perfectly legitimate marketing/design
    strategy.\r\nThe same goes for mainstreaming trends copped from clubland early
    adopters -- because that's the way the world turns anyway.\r\nSo in 2012, or 2011
    when everyone is buying their tix, this logo will look perfectly acceptable and
    not so outlandish.\r\nAnd of course by then will have been bashed into everyone's
    brains by massive exposure. \r\n\r\nSo it woud be a mistake for the authorities
    to cut and run (surely that would be Blitzer's position? ;-)\r\n\r\nHaving said
    that, I agree with Barnbrook/McCallion:\r\nhttp://www.virusfonts.com/downloads/olympukes.html"
  created: '2007-06-06 23:20:48'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "<em>\"I think that being sensational is a perfectly legitimate marketing/design
    strategy.\"</em>\r\n\r\nThat makes my job so much easier. I shall simply tell
    my next client that I purposely designed them a sh\u0129te logo to be 'sensational'.\r\n\r\nWhy
    couldn't it be sensationally good they may say.\r\n\r\nWhat's the difference?
    I shall reply."
  created: '2007-06-06 23:48:48'
- author:
    name: acrobat
  body: "Well, what a fascinating (and revealing) discussion! People are such \"meaning
    providing machines\". \r\n\r\nI've been following the issue since the first moment
    it was revealed. I liked what I saw (and I saw more than the logo) immediately.
    After a couple of hours I realised that the publicity it would generate would
    never be generated by a planned campaign. It is what you call \"negative publicity\",
    but by now, half a day later, you don't need to read the word \"London\" or see
    the Olympics symbol, or make out the numbers. Your eyes only need to brush over
    it for a tenth of a second to recognise it. \r\n\r\nYou don't like it? Ha! That's
    because you are trying (actually, your mind is trying) to connect it with something
    you know. The mind will always do that. It's very hard to accept new things in
    their own value. That's why people see monkeys, broken swastikas and mirrors,
    overloaded camels, crashed lorries, zionist conspiracies, you name it. \r\n\r\nBut
    what really surprises me most, is that designers get so worked up about its looks,
    and its cost. I would expect them to have some more faith in the methodologies
    and the expertise of W.O., and think before they let go.\r\n\r\nOf course it would
    look great on a t-shirt, or on a skateboard, or as a sticker on a pavement! It
    just wouldn't be a quarter of an inch big. I'm dead sure W.O. have provided a
    manual that deals with all the symbol's applications. Of course it doesn't feature
    the London you knew last century. What is London today? Say Big Ben and you lost.
    London is as indescribable as the new logo is. Who must the logo appeal to? Not
    me, not you, not any geeser older than, say, 24. We've already bought the Olympics.
    It's the young ones, the ones who will be buying into the Olympics in five years
    time, that the logo speaks to.\r\n\r\nAnd you're still talking about Gill Sans!
    Yeah, the Greeks used it and it was as out of place as a sardine on your cream
    pie.\r\n\r\nYeah! Some people even dared suggest they should have kept the logo
    they used to get the Olympics. Your granny's picture will be next. Anything would
    be better than this one, right?\r\n\r\nBut what's worst, it's the moralising.
    The logo should make us all better persons and eventually lead us to paradise.
    Amen!"
  created: '2007-06-06 23:50:06'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: There's no such thing as bad publicty.
  created: '2007-06-07 00:32:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>There\u2019s no such thing as bad publicty.</em>\r\n\r\nIn fact, publicty
    of any kind doesn't exist in the dictionary.\r\nBut you were using sensational
    spelling to make a point, right?!"
  created: '2007-06-07 00:53:45'
- author:
    name: belleisle
  body: "And Acrobat, if I showed you something white I guess you would argue its
    black...\r\n\r\nIts the job of a designer to see the bigger picture, the other
    side, but it does'nt make this a good logo. You must have a high opinion of yourself
    to think we havent already taken into account the points you raise before the
    negative reaction.\r\n\r\nPublicity? - there is already a massive debate in London
    about the misfinancing of the games - the negative publicity generated about this
    logo is the last thing they wanted, believe me.\r\n\r\nToday in London, I was
    at a design conference, listening to a talk by Neville Brody, an internationally
    regarded, reactionary, ground breaking designer of his generation if ever there
    was one. He spoke how agencies such as W.O. are like an inverted triangle, creativity
    at the bottom, overlaiden with layers of account handlers and managers at he top.
    He added that the net result of projects undertaken by such agencies, was work
    like the London 2012 branding. \r\n\r\nNeedless to say he did'nt like the logo,
    to say the least.\r\n\r\nSpecifically about your comments, the logo is having
    to be used small in sponsors press ads, and guess what, it does'nt work. This
    leads directly to the central point of the criticism as far as I'm concerned:
    \r\n\r\nITS NOT THE CONCEPT/MESSAGE BEHIND THE BRAND, ITS THE LACK OF BASIC DESIGN
    CRAFT IN THE LOGO ITSELF."
  created: '2007-06-07 01:08:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "This has got five years, so the key test is going to be whether this gains
    in public affection over time. \r\n\r\nMy money is on NOT. \r\n\r\nI give this
    logo a 'B+' for art, a 'C-' for typography, and an 'F' for appropriateness. Not
    that anybody asked :) "
  created: '2007-06-07 01:40:15'
- author:
    name: Julie Oakley
  body: "Belleisle, I was at that talk as well. \r\n\r\nI lost a lot of respect for
    Neville Brody - he didn't have the courtesy to prepare his talk properly and he
    didn't let the truth get in the way of what he thought was a good story. All that
    posing as some kind of revolutionary leftie. \r\nHe showed us a picture of the
    Hornsey art college building (which he went to one year before I did) and presented
    it as a hotbed of revolutionary fervour that eventually was shut down by Thatcher
    as too great a threat to the establishment.\r\n\r\nWell, just to put the record
    straight, all the revolutionary fervour had happened ten years before (when he
    would have been about eight years old) and by the time both Neville and I attended
    it was a very tame part of Middlesex Polytechnic, and rather than Thatcher, the
    reason the building was sold was that the college had built a shiny new well-equipped
    building to replace it. And all that rubbish about schools being funded on results
    in core subjects - hey but who cares about the truth when you're a hip, revolutionary
    anti-establishment designer (who happens to have Bentley, Dom Perignon and The
    Times as clients)"
  created: '2007-06-07 02:41:13'
- author:
    name: Julie Oakley
  body: But back on topic, the 2012 logo is rubbish
  created: '2007-06-07 02:44:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I used to not like Brody very much, until I saw him speak in person in Thessaloniki\r\na
    few years ago. Maybe the Greek food helped? I mean him. I'm used to Greek food.\r\nOr
    maybe what helped was speaking to type people, not \"just\" graphic designers.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-07 03:03:57'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/June 072b_3935.jpg]'
  created: '2007-06-07 05:13:02'
- author:
    name: sayerhs
    picture: 112341
  body: "hmm, what im wondering is..the whole \"cartoonish\" look(if i may call it
    that) seems to be in. many logos of international bodies are like that(I cant
    recall which ones but we saw a few at a presentation on sustainable development
    by Helmut Langer.Even the identity of the athens olympics. Why is there a sudden
    madness for this sorta stuff?\r\n\r\nshreyas"
  created: '2007-06-07 05:19:27'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>There\u2019s no such thing as bad publicty.\r\nIn fact, publicty of
    any kind doesn\u2019t exist in the dictionary.</cite>\r\n\r\nNick, I think this
    means I might be able to get a trademark. If so, any future use of \"publicty\"
    will be restricted. First I create the \"buzz,\", then I secure the rights.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-07 06:56:37'
- author:
    name: acrobat
  body: Ts ts ts. Belleisle, listen to yourself! (And listen to yourself telling us
    in all seriousness that you listened to Neville!).
  created: '2007-06-07 08:01:58'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Thanks Scott. It was Zoom that I was thinking of in my kids' TV program comment.\r\n\r\nChuckGroth:
    I appreciate your thoughtful comments. Well stated.\r\n\r\nI had a lot higher
    regard for Wolf Olins prior to this. (<a href=\"http://www.wolffolins.com/tate.htm\">Tate
    gallery identity</a> anyone?) But, I'm not going to call them has-beens, and I
    personally would not take Neville Brody's word for it."
  created: '2007-06-07 08:22:24'
- author:
    name: belleisle
  body: "Julie, I hope you had a good day at the event.\r\n\r\nPoor old Neville, I
    only mentioned him, as his point about the management structure of agencies might
    open a debate as to why design work like 2012 happens. I've worked in enough of
    these places to know how the designers at W.O. would have been put in no win situations
    when doing this work. \r\n\r\nNB's not so bad, his talk fell away in the second
    half as his newer work lacks the sense of interest and history that the Face stuff
    would have, for me at any least.\r\n\r\nHaving had a chance to properly read back
    through this thread Bruno Maag also has been given a tough time for having the
    courage to put his name to criticism of the logo, especially as he is a part of
    a fairly tight knit circle of London's premier design operators. \r\nI can't help
    thinking, if only someone like DaltonMaag had been involved with 2012, the mess
    that has been created might not of happened."
  created: '2007-06-07 10:04:52'
- author:
    name: dontbugme
    picture: 110809
  body: 'I have to say, it looks like Ms. Olympia is performing an act on Mr London. '
  created: '2007-06-07 13:42:28'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "The New York Times is weighing in as well - is the reaction to this logo
    emblematic of the British public's resistance to hosting the Olympics in the first
    place?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/07/world/europe/07olympics.html?_r=1&oref=slogin\r\n\r\nNew
    York pitched to host the olympics a few years ago and I was immensely relieved
    we didn't get picked. What city wants them, honestly? Unless the swedish ski team
    stays in my apartment ;-)"
  created: '2007-06-07 14:25:55'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: do you have any idea how much hot chocolate and absolut they go through in
    a day?
  created: '2007-06-07 14:50:09'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"The New York Times is weighing in as well - is the reaction to this logo
    emblematic of the British public\u2019s resistance to hosting the Olympics in
    the first place?\"\r\n\r\nAh! Hmm...very interesting question!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-07 15:28:03'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "From the NYTimes article...\r\n\r\n<em>\u201CWhen something is so swingingly
    attacked as the 2012 logo has been, it tells you more about the people doing the
    attacking, and their taste, than about the design in question,\u201D said Michael
    Wolff, the co-founder of Wolff Olins, the branding agency that designed the logo.
    \u201CPrejudice is comfortable and lazy.\u201D\r\n\r\nMr. Wolff, who has since
    formed a separate company, went on to say in The Evening Standard, \u201CI think
    this petulant reaction will subside and pride will take its place.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    as long as Mr Wolff is happy, then apparently we should be to.\r\n\r\nArrogant
    charlatan."
  created: '2007-06-07 15:44:35'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "<em>who has since formed a separate company...</em>\r\n\r\n$400,000 start-up..."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ken Messenger
      picture: 111387
    body: "<cite>$400,000 start-up\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's actually \xA3400,000
      (a few shekels shy of $800k to us yanks). I might be able to set up a nice new
      studio for that....maybe."
    created: '2007-06-07 22:20:19'
  created: '2007-06-07 15:52:18'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "<em>\"The New York Times is weighing in as well - is the reaction to this
    logo emblematic of the British public\u2019s resistance to hosting the Olympics
    in the first place?\"</em>\r\n\r\nWhat a vacuous suggestion. It would be like
    protesting against the war in Iraq by critisizing the design of the soldiers uniforms.\r\n\r\nMakes
    for a good defence of crap design though."
  created: '2007-06-07 15:56:11'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "well, i hated the use of Times New Roman in the \"Mission Accomplished\"
    banner.\r\n\r\nI don't think it was a vacuous statement, but more a statement
    that people sometimes respond vacuously to things that upset them. Kids throw
    temper tantrums about their shoes when getting ready for school, but are really
    anxious about the spelling bee. Executives complain about parking spaces because
    they're unprepared for a presentation.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-07 16:01:04'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Nick, I don't believe in attention by any means. It probably works from a
    capital point of view, I'm sure there are plenty of case studies where loud branding
    has led to brand success. However by pandering to this mentality we promote incedibly
    empty, crass design. Design where the only goal is money. I certainly don't think
    that is appropriate for the ethos of the Olympic games and it saddens me that
    anyone within the domain of typophile might find this appropriate.\r\n\r\nSomeone
    will be quick to point out how romantic this is, it's not. I'm being realistic
    by asserting that design of this nature is detrimental."
  created: '2007-06-07 17:56:35'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "<em>I\u2019m being realistic by asserting that design of this nature is detrimental.</em>\r\n\r\nDeterimental
    to what? \r\n\r\nThis design is completely appropriate. It's appropriate for the
    want of integrity, something which was lost as a people and as a global society
    - a long time ago. Now we have all the good stuff like - pre-emptive war, globalization,
    corporatization, consumerism - umm... Darfur(s). Loud and proud, Us vs Them.\r\n\r\n<em>\"Yea,
    so the logo is bullshit. Why is that bad? It\u2019s just to advertise the olympics.\"</em>
    \r\n\r\n_________\r\nHiro\r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-07 18:54:30'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">It\u2019s just to advertise the olympics\r\n\r\nand the Paralympics.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-06-07 20:32:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://www.flickr.com/photos/48413419@N00/322519074/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-07 20:44:27'
- author:
    name: funhaus5
  body: "Couple of things -- if a vast majority of people dislike something it could
    be \"groupthink\". . . or -- the more obvious answer -- it just could be that
    the object of dislike simply isn't any good.\r\n\r\n[For example, 70 percent of
    Americans think Bush is doing a disastrous job. Now, maybe some of you would call
    this \"groupthink\". But perhaps it is because we might just currently have the
    worst president ever. ]\r\n\r\nSome of the proponents of this egregious logo like
    it because it's \"different\". That's a rather pathetic reason. There was a lot
    1980s style that was \"different\" back then, too, much as this logo rips off
    that era . . . oh, sorry, \"is influenced by\". . .  but that doesn't mean parachute
    pants were ever a good idea. \r\n\r\nActually, that's no reason at all if you
    think about it. \r\n\r\nAnd if you think it's good because we're all writing in
    about how much we loathe it or are disappointed by it, well, that is a PR agency
    reaction, but it doesn't make the design work any better. The thing about works
    being \"controversial\" is that they are not always Stravinsky's \"Rites of Spring.\"
    Sometimes they're the \"Piss Christ\" (a crucifix in a glass of urine, for those
    youngsters out there) -- controversial maybe, but mediocre, even bad as \"art\".
    For $800K I sure would have expected a whole lot more. \r\n\r\nNow, as for this
    \"ID\" system. . . what ID \"system\"? The four colors? Is that the supposed \"system\"?
    Color me un-impressed. And if it takes a music video/movie trailer/motion graphic
    thing to \"explain\" a logo, then I'm not really sure that logo is really working.
    . . on its own. It's like a poem that requires footnotes -- outside of \"The Wasteland\",
    probably not much of a poem. Probably you should go back, and re-write, and re-write
    until you nail it.\r\n\r\nI'm against this logo because not only is it hideous
    visual pollution, from my purely aesthetically subjective point of view, but it
    fails in legibility. It fails to convey \"Olympics\" or \"athletics\" or \"London\".
    It sort of conveys \"outdated 80s mall 'graffitti' \", but that is not the point.
    Call me hopelessly literal, but I am sort of a sucker for marks that, you know,
    actually have something to do with the company/brand/event they are meant to represent.
    Or, failing that, are intriguing. Or at very least, beautiful. This logo fails
    on all counts.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-07 21:49:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Hrant> used to not like Brody very much, until I saw him speak in person
    in Thessaloniki a few years ago. \r\n\r\n2004 or 2002? Anyway the year Carson
    was a no-show I was very impressed by the way Neville and Erik stepped up to do
    an informal town-hall style meeting with the students and other delegates. It
    was totally unscripted, with them sitting on the edge of the stage, very cool.
    \  "
  created: '2007-06-07 22:04:06'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Couple of things \u2014 if a vast majority of people dislike something
    it could be \u201Cgroupthink\u201D\u2026 or \u2014 the more obvious answer \u2014
    it just could be that the object of dislike simply isn\u2019t any good.\"\r\n\r\nLook
    at hate/love ratio for Apple. Compare it to Dell. Which is a better product? Which
    is more succesful? \r\n\r\nI don't think 'loud hate' means it is bad. It means
    it triggers a strong reaction. Sometimes it may be cause it's bad. I have a hunch
    it's more often just because it's different and not mainstream."
  created: '2007-06-07 22:08:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the year Carson was a no-show I was very impressed by ...\r\n\r\nYeah,
    that one.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-07 22:34:05'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "> Maybe the Greek food helped? I mean him. I\u2019m used to Greek food.\r\n\r\nHrant
    - then what about Elena Greek Armenian Cuisine on Glendale Boulevard?\r\n\r\npeas\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-07 22:51:17'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "Well, I said the $400k because I figured Wolff only got half...\r\n\r\n(I'm
    not that strong at math -- believe me-- but division by two is right in my skill
    set!)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-07 23:17:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "This is extraordinary. Has there ever been a furor like this over a logo?
    \r\n\r\nNot only is it evidently all over the British press, but also in both
    the Washington Post and New York Times. And I'm sure a lot of other places.\r\n\r\nI
    don't think there has been a typography story this big since the faked memo about
    George Bush. \r\n\r\nI suppose it is good as it shows that people care about graphic
    design. "
  created: '2007-06-08 00:31:31'
- author:
    name: lunyboy
    picture: 110638
  body: "That piece of crap would have been a breeze to sell to a bunch of stuffed
    shirts who hated the Sex Pistols. Even the pitch that I heard on BBC was just
    a complete wash of marketing bullshit. I think, that if it had been fronted by
    a group of real punk rock designers who were paid 50 pounds on a Pub Tab I would
    like it much, much more. At least then there would have been some authenticity
    to the sentiment.\r\n\r\n\"The bigger the lie, therefore, the likelier it is to
    be believed.\"\r\n- Adolf Hitler, Mein Kempf."
  created: '2007-06-08 02:07:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Paul, I've only been there once, and mostly I remember the waitress. Sorry.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-08 02:19:39'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "The lentil soup is delicious and their stuffed grape leaves are recommended
    (my wife likes the meat variety). I also like the kebabs and the prices are right.\r\n\r\nThere's
    not much Greek about it except they serve gyros - but it's a good really reasonably
    priced place.\r\n\r\nDo I care about graphic design? Not nearly as much as food,
    which seems to be more primal. That being said, I have a lot of passion\u2026\r\n\r\nappease\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-08 05:13:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Food is most definitely the pinnacle of sensuality.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-08 05:23:28'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Do I care about graphic design? Not nearly as much as food, which seems
    to be more primal. That being said, I have a lot of passion\u2026\r\n\r\nAs far
    as conferences go, I take the advice of Ole Lund, who said when choosing which
    ones to attend the only things that count are \"the venue and the menu\" to add
    to that I'd say the people count too so, Thessaloniki scores three out of three
    - only two weeks to go - and Seattle scores too. "
  created: '2007-06-08 05:34:35'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Hedonic calculus kicks in.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-06-08 05:35:04'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I have an interesting theory to posit. It\u2019s no secret that most designers
    don\u2019t like working in top-heavy environments, and that really great creative
    work tends to come from small organizations with lots of creative freedom. This
    is the opposite of the rest of business and government, where huge numbers of
    bureaucrats are constantly put in place, shuffled around, fired, etc. just to
    keep everybody else working and happy enough to not revolt. Perhaps the usual
    outcry over public design projects results from business and government types
    not wanting to accept that their modus operandi tends to fail at producing good
    design. For every Vietnam Wall there are dozens, if not hundreds, of public design
    disasters, and that fact just seems to drive the bean-counters crazy."
  created: '2007-06-08 16:33:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Can anyone be positive about this?\"\r\nBarney would like it. I'd ask him. "
  created: '2007-06-08 16:34:25'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Can anyone be positive about this?\"\r\nBarney would like it. I'd ask him. "
  created: '2007-06-08 16:36:21'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Jon Stewart referred to the logo last night as a slot machine going down on
    a stop sign.
  created: '2007-06-08 16:47:14'
- author:
    name: zvs
  body: "Does anyone know where I can find the now removed siezure inducing motion
    graphic?\r\nI've looked and looked but can't find anything.\r\n\r\n... _._. ...
    .. ... __.. ..._ ..."
  created: '2007-06-08 18:50:10'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Jon Stewart showed it, believe me you're better off w/o it. It was just the
    silly logo jumping around and changing colors.
  created: '2007-06-08 20:40:30'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<em>Well, I said the $400k because I figured Wolff only got half\u2026</em>\r\nSometimes,
    a little knowledge is dangerous. Half-baked facts get copyandpasted, read and
    repeated by other people and soon are taken as facts. \r\nThis is a case of remote
    character assassination which a little research could have prevented. Michael
    Woll founded Wolff Olins in 1965 with Wally Olins and left the consultancy 20
    years later. Wally also left afew years ago, just after Omnicom bought Wolff Olins.
    And even if both of them were still there, attributing half of the revenue to
    each of the partners is silly, naive and even outright stupid. Anybody who\u2019s
    ever worked on these big accounts knows that the money is spent on endless meetings,
    repetitious presentations to different departments of the client\u2019s company
    and a lot of hot air from all the consultants involved. Very much the inverted
    triangle model that Neville apparently talked about (and which made me leave my
    own company, MetaDesign, after 21 years).\r\n\r\nI also think the logo sucks \u2013
    naive concept, bad execution \u2013 but I would never let petty jealousy and half-informed
    prejudice colour my judgement. This is simply a case of the old motto being applied
    that originally comes from the advertising world:\r\n<em>It is not enough to have
    no ideas, one also has to be unable to express them.</em>"
  created: '2007-06-08 22:27:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "The Jon Stewart piece is up on the main page of http://www.comedycentral.com/
    \r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2007-06-08 22:45:24'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Anyone remember "whatizzit" the Atlanta mascot? Big blue sperm with googly
    eyes?
  created: '2007-06-08 23:04:56'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Patty, I know its Friday, but can't you wait til <A HREF="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/420_%28cannabis_culture%29">4:20</A>
    like everyone else.
  created: '2007-06-08 23:17:59'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: huh????
  created: '2007-06-08 23:34:18'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: The sun's over the yardarm where she is, Si.  ;-)
  created: '2007-06-08 23:58:27'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "<em>Half-baked facts get copyandpasted, read and repeated by other people
    and soon are taken as facts.\r\n</em>\r\nMr. Spiekermann-\r\nSorry. It was just
    a joke. This whole thread has been just about played out.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-08 23:59:10'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Sometimes, a little knowledge is dangerous. Half-baked facts get copyandpasted,
    read and repeated by other people and soon are taken as facts.</cite>\r\n\r\nErik,
    I completely disagree. You are giving the internet WAY more credit than it deserves;
    half-baked facts belong in the New York times, the internet is just a bunch of
    nonsense cooked up by people who drink too much and post at two in the morning."
  created: '2007-06-09 00:33:24'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Oh NOW I get it.\r\n\r\nSii, those days are llllooooonnnnngggg behind me,
    sad to say. The stuff just puts me to sleep. But your post gave me a giggle (altho
    I do feel like I can't use that word lightly on this forum...)."
  created: '2007-06-09 03:31:51'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I'm all for it, just not at 4:20\u2026\r\n\r\nAnd Patty, going to sleep is
    not what happens when it originates from Cali.\r\n\r\nReality is vastly overrated.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-06-09 03:39:37'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>This is simply a case of the old motto being applied that originally
    comes from the advertising world: It is not enough to have no ideas, one also
    has to be unable to express them.</cite>\r\n\r\nOr as Jon Stewart put it so eloquently:
    There's an old saying in the ad game: try not to give them seizures.\r\n\r\nI'm
    with Chuck, this thread has been played out... half baked indeed. Or fully baked.
    I'm sure it's 4:20 somewhere."
  created: '2007-06-09 05:01:22'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "<em>This whole thread has been just about played out.</em>\r\n\r\nWhy has
    there been such an outcry ...globally? \r\n\r\nThis thread has only just begun...\r\n\r\n__________\r\nHiro\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-09 05:35:48'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>This thread has only just begun\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nNah, the thread
    is shot, or at least it needs to be. But we have five years of design criticism
    ahead of us before we get to see the logo used at the games, and at least another
    year of criticism after.\r\n\r\nPart of me wonders if the logo will start to make
    more sense once the rest of the identity system dribbles out. But then I remember
    that the proper context for Olympic logos is low-quality, mass produced crap sold
    to the masses, and if it\u2019s illegible crap online, it will probably be illegible
    crap on the side of six-pack."
  created: '2007-06-09 05:44:51'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Tao Chien says the perfect man is silent.\r\nWhy then did he write those
    5,000 words?\r\n\r\n(paraphrased from a zen poet)\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-06-09 05:57:23'
- author:
    name: guest
  body: "does the word branding get capitalized now?\r\na nauseating thought."
  created: '2007-06-10 00:43:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Tao Chien says the perfect man is silent.\"\r\n\"Why then did he write
    those 5,000 words?\"\r\n\r\nSo he would not have to speak them, over and over?
    :)\r\n\r\nI'm starting to like the logo. Work that gets argued over for the same
    old reasons is something else. This, at least, has nothing to marvel at in color,
    shape, type or visual concept but has already generated interest worth far beyond
    it's cost, and like all preceding OOOOO logos, will be buried in trinkets and
    caps that no one (with a life) will want anyways in 5 years -- so who cares what
    it looks like as long as it is hugely prominent before it is actually used, at
    which point ( as a huge visual tragedy ), it lasts only for a second or two at
    a time. It's contragraphics, the second best thing to something that actually
    does it all. And by the looks and sounds of the large and ferocious logo approval
    trails of these kinds of things, the best thing (something super-cool-nice lookin'
    & talked about in advance, like this one?), is hardly likely to happen.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-10 16:25:41'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "The Lillehammer Olympics 1994 brand was actually not bad at all when it's
    compared to this shite!\r\n\r\nI tend to blame the client in such cases for doing
    a bad job in the research & selection phase. They should have chosen a design
    firm who knows how to build a brand. Someone who knows about both history, culture,
    psychology as well as trends. Not someone who's only focus is visual and is even
    sucks at that.\r\n\r\nI hope they will consider a redesign!"
  created: '2007-09-28 02:32:05'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: I just went to their site and saw that they classify themselves as brand experts!
    It just proves my theory that good design dies in a commitee. Too many people
    have a say and it ends up as a lump made of constant compromises. My advice to
    them is once the workshops and identity specification process is done the strategists
    should back off and let the designer do his part of the job. You've done yours
    now let us do ours!
  created: '2007-09-28 02:39:47'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Obviously the logo is still not loved by everyone.\r\n\r\nToday's Matt from
    \ the Daily Telegraph\r\nhttp://portal.telegraph.co.uk/core/Matt/pMattTemplate.jhtml?xml=/news/2007/11/13/ixmatt.xml\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/matt_olympic_3563.gif]"
  created: '2007-11-13 07:31:01'
- author:
    name: T Bones
    picture: 111040
  body: '[Edit]'
  created: '2012-08-02 21:40:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://typographica.org/on-typography/a-fruitful-discomfort-the-face-of-the-2012-olympics/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-08-19 18:09:28'
- author:
    name: cyrusselster
  body: I expected the logo to look attractive and appealing but did disappointed
    me as well. It would have looked better if 2012 wouldn't have been mentioned.
    I mean everyone knows that its 2012, then why to mention it ?
  created: '2012-09-04 08:45:45'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Bottom line? Worst logo ever\u2014unless you're trying to convey that \"London
    Bridge is falling down.\"\r\n\r\nBlack Sabbath: Saturday, September 29. Who knows?
    Maybe the bridge WILL fall down\u2026the logo sure as hell fell flat\u2026"
  created: '2012-09-04 13:45:57'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Back in the day I posted here in these hallowed halls as Hiroshige (i heart
    hiroshige the print maker) ... as I review my comments here on the London 2012
    logo I see that I haven't changed my opinion. In fact I have reenforced my opinion
    with the my London 2012 thread.\r\n\r\nGraphic design isn't about pleasing the
    masses. Sorry fans.\r\n\r\nPaul Rand was once asked why he added stripes to the
    IBM logo .... he said \"...it has nothing to with computers and speed.\"  \"...graphic
    design is to be practical and impracticable at the same time ...it's very important
    to consider aesthetics to consider content.\"\r\n\r\nPaul Rand three part interview...\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ta4ef1xBeMA\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LxiDNdM2-bM&feature=relmfu\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2bA1LdQknbk&feature=relmfu\r\n\r\nThat's
    it that's all ...the London 2012 logo work flawlessly ...IMHO of course ;)\r\n\r\nn.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-04 17:36:12'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Good points, Neil. And, thanks for pointing out that I am not the masses.
    I still think that the logo sucks, big-time\u2026strokes for folks and all."
  created: '2012-09-04 21:40:49'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Coolio Nick, I don't really care about someone's likes or dislikes although
    I do hope for opinions to be expressed in detail. For instance one could say the
    London 2012 logo's elements are grouped in such a discordant manner as to upset
    the eye.\r\n\r\nBut then again, I think as time goes on we as a global culture
    are rapidly being reduced to nothing more than grunts. Twitter is somewhat in
    that grunt vein with its 140(?) character limit, texting to has begun to form
    grunting methodology. So, I'm completely empathetic to the one or two grunt critique.\r\n\r\nAnd
    perhaps in some measure the London 2012 logo is a grunt? But I don't think so,
    I think it boldly harkens back to early Greek culture whilst sounding out how
    edgy we have become as a global culture.\r\n\r\nThis ain't the '60s ...see Mexico's
    olympiad branding.   \r\n\r\nI don't think the London 2012 logo is the pinnacle
    of graphic design ... I just think it has its hand the pulse of modern day culture.\r\n\r\nThere
    ain't no kumbaya moments in the London 2012 branding. \r\n\r\nI'm beginning to
    ramble... lol, omg, ...\r\n\r\nL8r sk8r\r\n\r\nn.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-05 06:12:08'
date: '2007-06-04 12:59:10'
files:
- filename: 1542899_0.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/1542899_0.jpg
node_type: forum
title: London 2012 Olympic Logo

---
