---
author:
  name: kateliev
  picture: 128208
body: "Sorry to delete this but I must really say that all written by me was really
  shxx.\r\nMy apologies to all of you."
comments:
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "So HermesSoft are the only ones producing fonts in Bulgaria? That's rough...
    So what kind of Cyrillic types were produced in Bulgaria or used by Bulgarians
    historically, before digital fonts? How would those types be judged by today's
    Bulgarians?\r\n\r\nIn your opinion, what constitutes good Cyrillic design on the
    Bulgarian model? Are there any good, thoughtful examples being produced--lettering,
    custom logos, calligraphy, etc.--that might point the way? Or any historical high
    marks--models from the past that epitomize good Bulgarian Cyrillic design--that
    could be a good springboard for a present renewal?\r\n\r\nIs there one model or
    a diverse range of models to follow for Bulgarian Cyrillic? Sorry to barrage you
    with questions, but I'm eager to learn about Bulgarian typographic traditions
    and the current scene."
  created: '2007-06-06 10:37:08'
- author:
    name: hoolia_d
    picture: 112385
  body: I'm Bulgarian, and I just got back two days ago and I tried desperately to
    find a font pack on disc, but to no avail. Our actual calligraphic and hand drawn
    letters are gorgeous. The text on icons is gorgeous and inspiring and all of the
    text I see from store awning to awning I just can't imagine where they came from.
    I feel pathetic that I, as a Bulgarian own only 3 true cyrillic faces.
  created: '2007-06-06 13:07:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I personally have a very large interest in Latinization - in taming it that
    is!\r\nFrom reading what you've writted I can't figure out your own stance on
    it.\r\nAlso, there's a Russification issue in the Bulgarian case as well, no?
    That's\r\nan obscure area needing much more elaboration.\r\n\r\nBTW, you might
    enjoy this:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1-15_cyrarab_3753.jpg]\r\nArabicized
    Cyrillic!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-06 14:14:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What happened to \"many have forgotten and denied\r\nthe cultural roots/styles/arts/crafts
    (negative)\"?\r\nDoes perhaps your dislike of the Russian influence\r\n(partly)
    motivate your embracing of Latinization?\r\n\r\nPersonally I think Latinization
    is generally terrible.\r\nFor a full explanation as to why, please read my article\r\nentitled
    \"Latinization: Prevention and Cure\", which has\r\nbeen published in two jounals:
    Spatium #4 (Austria) and\r\nHyphen 2005 (Greece).\r\n\r\nHere's a \"preview\":\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_rome1.html\r\n\r\n>
    for us there is no difference between latinised and standard Cyrillic.\r\n\r\nI
    don't think you can pretend to speak for everybody.\r\nPlus I don't understand
    how you can like Latinization\r\nif there's no difference.\r\n\r\n> so get to
    work\r\n\r\nOh, I've been working to tame Latinization for 7 years now.\r\nI make
    fonts that way, and write articles & give talks about it.\r\n\r\n> it\u2019s no
    problem how actually glyphs look\r\n\r\nFunny hearing that from a graphic designer.\r\nEverything
    matters. And to us, especially glyphs.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-06 15:22:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> there is no russian influence\r\n\r\nThat's not believable.\r\n\r\n> why
    don\u2019t u tame ...\r\n\r\nThere are only so many hours in the day!\r\nPlus
    I'm Armenian.\r\n\r\nBut I think during my next talk (in October at UCLA) I will
    indeed\r\nmention in passing that some Bulgarians turn to Latinization as a\r\nreaction
    against Russification. Politics is everywhere!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-06 15:59:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "With OpenType, this is not so much an issue for the type designer, more for
    the type user.\r\nThat's because it's possible to put \"country-specific\" variants
    of the Cyrillic alphabet in the same font. What's specified as the default for
    a specific language may be an issue, however. \r\n\r\nI've been developing some
    new typefaces (to be released this Fall/Autumn) in Cyrillic and Greek, and following
    a seminar given by Maxim Zhukov, I became aware of the Bulgarian issue. So I've
    included a Bulgarian \"language specific\" option to the standard Cyrillic letterforms
    in the fonts. Serbian too.\r\n\r\nSo while the basic Cyrillic typeface (below)
    is a fairly authentic 19th century revival (close to a type published by Adolf
    Darre in Harkov in 1888) the Bulgarian alternates are \"historical fiction\" based
    on a study of fonts published by HermesSoft. Given the logic of typographic style,
    and its relative portability across cultural (well, Latin-Greek-Cyrillic anyway)
    and temporal boundaries, that seems reasonable.\r\n\r\nHere is the upright style
    of the serifed face, which shows the most distinction between standard and Bulgarian
    Cyrillic forms:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bulg_3601.jpg]\r\n\r\nTo
    clarify how this works: when the language used in the layout application is specified
    as Bulgarian (\"BGR\"), the Bulgarian alternates are substituted."
  created: '2007-06-06 16:51:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> this is not so much an issue for the type designer\r\n\r\nWell, the type
    designer still has to make the \"sensitive\" fonts!  :-/\r\nAs you're doing -
    which is commendable.\r\n\r\nAlso, software currently still ignores the language
    tags, no?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-06 17:13:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>commendable.</em>\r\n\r\nThanks Hrant, your advocacy is not without effect,
    and the Typophile forums really help sort out this kind of thing.\r\n\r\n<em>software
    currently still ignores the language tags, no?</em>\r\n\r\nI don't know too much
    about that, but it did come up on a thread in the Build forum, and Miguel indicated
    that it wasn't an issue. What's your experience of this, Vassil -- does the software
    used in Bulgaria support language tags in OpenType fonts?\r\n\r\nI'm anticipating
    that some of the market for this typeface will be trans-national corporations
    producing multi-lingual material for the EU, and their suppliers should have the
    Adobe CS software which supports this kind of OpenType font sophistication.\r\n\r\nOr
    should I (also) produce dedicated Bulgarian-only TrueType fonts?"
  created: '2007-06-06 17:59:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it wasn\u2019t an issue.\r\n\r\nI'm confused - what's not an issue?\r\n\r\n>
    should I (also) produce dedicated Bulgarian-only TrueType fonts?\r\n\r\nThat seems
    wise even if the language tag is supported, because otherwise you're\r\nassuming
    too much expertise both on the part of software at large as well as the\r\ntypical
    user. And I'd put a \"Bulgarian\" suffix within the name of the font.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-06 18:10:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Actually, it was Thomas who clarified the situation:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/33087\r\n\r\nIt
    looks like you need CS3 to have it work properly.\r\n\r\nI don't know whether
    I would go to the trouble of producing Bulgarian-specific, non-OT fonts. That's
    a production, marketing and distribution hassle as much as a font generation difficulty.
    It would certainly be quite unproductive to make Small Cap and Old-style figures
    fonts. \r\n\r\nIt would probably be easier to make Bulgarian-first OT fonts, TrueType
    flavour -- they would work on any application that supported TrueType, with the
    benefit of accessing typographic OT features in earlier versions of Adobe software.
    \r\n "
  created: '2007-06-06 20:22:31'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Nick, I'm curious as to why you include some "Bulgarian" forms for letters
    that are not a part of the Bulgarian language. Do you view these as purely stylistic
    alternates?
  created: '2007-06-06 23:25:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sort of.\r\nThe general idea is to make the lower case less \"capital-ish\"
    than standard Cyrillic.\r\nThat applies at the alphabetic level to glyphs that
    acquire ascenders in the Bulgarian version, but also to the treatment of details.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bulga_5512.jpg]\r\nSo
    the first changes shown here are alphabetic, but the second are typographic. \r\nThey
    don't effect sans fonts so much, or italic.\r\n\r\nBTW, this principle (as I deduced
    it) comes from fonts such as HermesSoft \"Brilliant\" (their Bodoni) -- although
    I have applied it in a conceptual manner (eg the flag on the \"be\"), as well
    as literal copying of their forms (the \"en\")."
  created: '2007-06-07 00:13:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sorry, I misunderstood. \r\nYou're referring to the \"softened\" letters?\r\nAgain,
    I took my cue from HermesSoft."
  created: '2007-06-07 00:38:25'
- author:
    name: gthompson
    picture: 109676
  body: "Nick, thanks for showing us what you're doing with Cyrillic and Bulgarian
    alternates. Very helpful.\r\n\r\nGeorge \r\nI felt bad because I had no shoes,
    until I met a man who had no Bodoni"
  created: '2007-06-07 01:08:26'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Nick, I think Paul is referring to the Macedonian letters Gje (\u0453) and
    Kja (\u045C), the Serbian/Macedonian letters Lje (\u0459), Nje (\u045A), and Dzhe
    (\u045F), and the Belarusian W (\u045E), none of which are used in Bulgarian.\r\n\r\nI
    think what you did makes sense in that it provides options in the form of stylistic
    alternates, and it's fun to reimagine other Cyrillic letters to follow the Bulgarian
    model. It won't be terribly authentic, though, at least for the Serbian letters.
    Now I'm curious--what's authentic for Macedonian--Serbian style, Bulgarian style,
    a mixture of both, or something else entirely?"
  created: '2007-06-07 07:05:15'
- author:
    name: kateliev
    picture: 128208
  body: "So regretfully most of your questions are getting too profi for me but some
    I think I can answer\u2026\r\n\r\nNick Shinn\r\n\r\nYou are doing marvelous job\u2026Most
    glyphs given as bulgarian alternates are in deed widely used with some remarks
    (as pointed by Jongseong). Additional notes may be pointed: all letterforms cyrillic
    \ an \u201Ctypical bulgarian\u201D are used in hand writing, note the serbian
    small caps b which is also used as small caps d in hand writing. Note that the
    k and dj are still questionable, dough beautiful, because of latinisation issue\u2026\r\n\r\nThe
    open type question is little too hard for me \u2013 all the standart software,
    which we are using, is supporting it, but software produced in bulgaria doesn\u2019t.
    But it could be implemented with proper support in the coming years, because the
    majority of pro oriented applications (bank software , accounting software, medicine
    and etc\u2026) is still developed for DOS environments (yeah) and in the coming
    years they probably will shift platforms.  \r\n\r\nhrant\r\n\r\nReally nice article,
    I\u2019ll think about it in days to come\u2026.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-07 08:13:27'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: By the way, I've seen something close to the Bulgarian Cyrillic forms used
    to set Ukrainian. I'm trying to remember where from and when, but I think it was
    19th C or early 20th C. So that's at least one example of Bulgarian-style forms
    used outside of Bulgaria.
  created: '2007-06-07 09:15:04'
- author:
    name: kateliev
    picture: 128208
  body: Look at the article i have started about [[Milka Pejkova]]. See specimen attached
    it may be helpful or clear some questions too.
  created: '2007-06-07 09:16:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the Macedonian letters Gje (\u0453) and Kja (\u045C), the Serbian/Macedonian
    letters Lje (\u0459), Nje (\u045A), and Dzhe (\u045F), and the Belarusian W (\u045E),
    none of which are used in Bulgarian.</em>\r\n\r\nThey are not, in practical terms,
    redundant -- one context for the use of \"loan characters\" in a font being educational.
    If you are typesetting a Bulgarian language primer on foreign languages such as
    Serbian or Macedonian, you will need all of their alphabet, and the characters
    should be available in the same style as the main font.\r\n\r\nAnd in literary
    works, if the text is in Bulgarian, but quoting a Serbian author in his/her original
    language, the foreign characters are necessary. \r\n\r\nAnd surely Brian, in those
    contexts, the use of Bulgarian style--typographic as well as alphabetic-- is authentic.\r\nFor
    Russian, Serbian, etc. typesetting, people wouldn't be getting any of the Bulgarian
    alternates.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-07 19:33:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>all the standart software, which we are using, is supporting it, but
    software produced in bulgaria doesn\u2019t. </em>\r\n\r\nIt's no different in
    Western Europe and North America.\r\nThe support of OpenType features is limited
    to professional software (CS, XPress), and somewhat in Word. \r\n\r\nNote Thomas'
    comment in the Build thread linked to above, that it's only with CS3 that InDesign
    supports the \"bgr\" language tag, to support alternate language-specific glyphs.\r\n\r\nI
    would also expect Word to support the Bulgarian language tag in OpenType fonts."
  created: '2007-06-07 19:48:58'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Nick, I completely agree with the need for the Bulgarian-style non-Bulgarian
    letters. I just meant they were probably not authentic in the sense that they
    were not likely to have been in actual use. Inauthenticity should not be an obstacle
    to updating typographical practices; otherwise, typefaces based on the letters
    on Trajan's column wouldn't have J or U, Greek typefaces in the lapidary style
    wouldn't have lowercase letters, and so forth.\r\n\r\nI'm curious about your Bulgarian-style
    Dzhe (\u045F) design, though. Shouldn't it resemble the Bulgarian I (\u0438) with
    a stroke?\r\n\r\nOn the whole, your Cyrillic letters look really good, and I'll
    be looking forward to the release. Nice to see it's based on a type produced in
    Kharkiv (then Kharkov), whose typographic tradition I would like to learn more
    about.\r\n\r\nAny chance I can persuade you to add Old Bulgarian letters to your
    font?"
  created: '2007-06-08 06:16:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Brian, you're right that the Bulgarianized Serbian letters are not authentic
    to the native language; I was wrongly interpreting \"authentic\" to mean true
    to the typographic style of the (Bulgarian part of) the font, not to the alphabetic
    shapes. \r\n\r\n<em>Bulgarian-style Dzhe (\u045F) design, though. Shouldn\u2019t
    it resemble the Bulgarian I (\u0438) with a stroke?</em>\r\n\r\nI haven't a clue,
    not being a linguist. I copied that interpretation from a HermesSoft font that
    I bought. Could you explain?\r\n\r\n<em>Nice to see it\u2019s based on a type
    produced in Kharkiv (then Kharkov), whose typographic tradition I would like to
    learn more about.</em>\r\n\r\nThe Darre style I'm reviving is taken from a specimen
    book in the New York Public Library; Maxim Zhukov arranged a viewing for those
    attending his TDC Cyrillic seminar earlier this year. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Darre1_5336.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Darre2_3988.jpg]\r\nPhotos:
    Adam Twardoch\r\n\r\n<em>Any chance I can persuade you to add Old Bulgarian letters
    to your font?</em>\r\n\r\nPossibly.\r\nI added four historic Russian letters,
    (Maxim's suggestion, re. 1918 reform).\r\nYat used quite a bit in the specimen
    above.\r\nHow many?\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-08 07:35:47'
- author:
    name: najgori
  body: "Strangely,  I didn't find this link at typophile:\r\nwww.tipometar.org or
    in english www.tipometar.org/tm/IndexEng.html\r\nIt's a serbian typographic community
    site with special accent on cirilica (serbian cyrillic).\r\nEnjoy."
  created: '2007-06-08 09:52:01'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "A million thanks for the beautiful examples, Nick! I remember being delighted
    to see wonderful books from the period in a number of exhibits in Ukraine, including
    the Taras Shevchenko Museum in Kiev. I don't speak Russian or Ukrainian, so it
    must have confused my Ukrainian friend why I was looking into them as if I were
    reading them, just admiring the forms of the letters...\r\n\r\nReturning to topic...\r\n\r\nBy
    'Old Bulgarian' letters, I meant Yat (\u0463) and Yus (\u046B), which were used
    in the pre-1945 orthography. You already have Yat, of course, so it turns out
    I was just thinking of Yus... I vaguely thought there might be more letters I
    was forgetting about, but I guess not. So just one more letter and you've got
    older Bulgarian texts covered. you can do it, Nick!\r\n\r\np.s. I just found out
    that the pre-1945 Bulgarian orthography is due to one Marin Drinov, who studied
    and taught at Kharkiv University. He was living in Kharkiv around the time Adolf
    Darre was producing his types, and he died in Kharkiv as well. Just shows how
    important Kharkiv was as a cultural centre in that period."
  created: '2007-06-08 12:27:12'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Could you explain?</em>\r\nI'll try to. The \"Bulgarian\" forms are basically
    script forms of the letters which have been back slanted to fit within the upright
    paradigm.  as such, the \u0438 \u0439 \u0446 \u045F are all related and based
    on the 'u' shape that you used for all of these letters excepting the \u045F.\r\n\r\nBrian,
    by old Bulgarian, do you mean <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Old_Cyrillic\">Old
    Cyrillic</a>?"
  created: '2007-06-08 16:21:57'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<em>Brian, by old Bulgarian, do you mean Old Cyrillic?</em>\r\n'Old Bulgarian'
    was a poor choice of words... I just meant the letters Yat (\u0463) and Yus (\u046B)
    that were used as recently as 1945.\r\n\r\nI don't want Nick to go through all
    the trouble of resurrecting all the earliest historical Cyrillic letters and their
    variants described in the article you linked to, most of which were archaic by
    the time the Adolf Darre specimen was produced.\r\n\r\nRegarding the 'Bulgarian'
    \u045F... Yes, I also understood the 'Bulgarian' forms as an upright script form,
    and so expected something based on the 'u' shape. I couldn't have explained it
    better myself."
  created: '2007-06-08 18:12:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks for the insight, Paul.\r\nHow's this? \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture6_4749.jpg]\r\n\r\nBrian,
    I note that Milka Pejkova included Yus and yus in her seminal design (see Vassil's
    Typowiki link above).\r\n\r\nBut just so that I know what I'm getting myself in
    for here, I should probably produce two variants: the standard Cyrillic form (with
    the more curled \"K\" leg), plus the Bulgarian variant with straighter leg, in
    upper and lower case. What about the \"iotified\" version -- that would be very
    cool as it looks like a stick-figure animal, but is it necessary for the pre 1945
    Bulgarian texts you're alluding to?"
  created: '2007-06-08 20:21:47'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: the italic is just about there, i might move the tail to the left a bit so
    it appears to come from the bottom curved portion of the u, but if you like it
    as it is, this is fine too. i don't like the roman as much. i think here the tail
    doesn't have to match the other tails and can be a wedge shape with the narrow
    portion at the top, again connected to the round portion of the u. something like
    <a href="http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/paratype/swift/light/win-t1/265294/character/045F/CP6/1/">this</a>,
    notably the Palatino italic and the Swift roman.
  created: '2007-06-08 20:39:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Paul, I think you're right on the italic, it is OK to make the disconnected
    tail on the \u045F lower than the other tails. I've seen historical precedent
    in similar types, and it does disambiguate the characters a bit better than how
    I originally drew it.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture7_5222.jpg]\r\n\r\nHowever,
    I think I'll stick with my upright version. Mainly because HermesSoft has established
    the \"Bulgarianized small cap\" interpretation of this character in their fonts,
    so it's probably a good idea to not stray too far from it."
  created: '2007-06-08 21:04:30'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: nick, you're already pushing the envelope, just push it a bit further... :P
  created: '2007-06-08 21:26:09'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<em>What about the \u201Ciotified\u201D version \u2014 that would be very
    cool as it looks like a stick-figure animal, but is it necessary for the pre 1945
    Bulgarian texts you\u2019re alluding to?</em>\r\nNot as far as I know. Though
    I agree it looks like an animal shape composed of matchsticks, and would be fun
    to design just because.\r\n\r\nNew question for Bulgarians (and other native Cyrillic
    users): I came across <a href=\"http://www.sbible.boom.ru/slavpdf.htm\">this page
    with PDF files of the Bible in Church Slavonic</a>. Does the style of Cyrillic
    used there have specific connotations as being appropriate only for religious
    literature or recreations of mediaeval texts? Or does it have broader appeal?\r\n\r\nI'm
    thinking of a possible parallel example in Korean typography. The older Hangul
    (Korean alphabet) Bibles--the ones where the text is set vertically, not horizontally
    as Korean is written now--were set in a typeface designed by Seo Sangryun and
    Baek Hongjun in the late 19th Century and first used for printing in 1882. Because
    of the drab uniformity of Hangul book typefaces in contemporary use, the unique
    type style of old Korean Bibles is all the more distinctive.\r\n\r\nIn 1998, the
    Sandoll foundry produced <a href=\"https://www.sandoll.co.kr/SandollWeb/shop/product_down_read.asp?idx=182&listType=2\">a
    digital revival</a> of this typeface under the direction of Lee Kyungbae, calling
    it Seonggyeongche (literally, 'Bible face'). Since then, I've seen it pop up on
    book covers, advertisements, and signs in uses that have nothing to do with the
    Bible. Although it was jarring at first, I've become accustomed to the type style
    being used in wider applications. Although the uses I've seen were all for display
    purposes, I even think a cleaned-up version would be good for contemporary book
    typography (as the Sandoll version is deliberately rough in imitation of the antique
    printing press outputs).\r\n\r\nWith the type style used for Church Slavonic typography,
    you similarly have a slice of older typographic history preserved through the
    conservative medium of religious literature. Is there a similar situation in Bulgaria
    and elsewhere where that type style is used for display purposes outside of the
    church context? To what extent could the style serve as an inspiration for contemporary
    developments in Cyrillic typography?"
  created: '2007-06-09 13:46:28'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "In his article on [[civil type]] in <em>[[Language Culture Type]]</em>, From
    [[Vladamir Yefimov]] states that \"at the end of the 17th century, <em>[[poluustav]]</em>
    was the only style of Cyrillic printing type,\" and that after the alphabet reform
    by Tsar Peter I, \"the old <em>poluustav</em> type was preserved only for religious
    literature.\" (pp. 128-129)\r\n\r\nI'm guessing that this means that the style
    you're referring to could either have church connotations or overtones of antiquity
    (not necessarily religious). I have several illustrated books of <em>skazki</em>
    (folktales), which use this style of lettering in illustrations, and there is
    definitely no religious connection there."
  created: '2007-06-09 17:17:08'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Is there a similar situation in Bulgaria and elsewhere where that type
    style is used for display purposes outside of the church context?\r\n\r\n\r\nRumania
    \u2014 early literary history used the OCS + Cyrillic. Around 1860 the Cyrillic
    was replaced by Latinica in non-religious writing, and around 1890 in the Church.
    \r\n\r\n\r\n> To what extent could the style serve as an inspiration for contemporary
    developments in Cyrillic typography?\r\n\r\nBulgaria: Proto-Slavonic, pre-1945,
    post -1945; read:  \u041C\u0438\u0440\u0447\u0435\u0432 \u041A\u2014\u0418\u0441\u0442\u043E\u0440\u0438\u0447\u0435\u0441\u043A\u0430
    \u0433\u0440\u0430\u043C\u0430\u0442\u0438\u043A\u0430 \u043D\u0430 \u0411\u044A\u043B\u0433\u0430\u0440\u0441\u043A\u0438\u044F
    \u0435\u044D\u0438\u043A \r\n"
  created: '2007-06-09 19:09:13'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Does <em>\u0418\u0441\u0442\u043E\u0440\u0438\u0447\u0435\u0441\u043A\u0430
    \u0433\u0440\u0430\u043C\u0430\u0442\u0438\u043A\u0430 \u043D\u0430 \u0431\u044A\u043B\u0433\u0430\u0440\u0441\u043A\u0438\u044F
    \u0435\u0437\u0438\u043A</em> cover typography and lettering styles? The google
    hits come up mostly for grammar and philology references, as you'd expect from
    the title...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-10 03:18:18'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: More linguistic stuff
  created: '2007-06-11 00:23:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'OK, so what does Italic yus look like? '
  created: '2007-06-11 01:05:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Brian, I've added the Yus to my never-ending font development project --
    but the lower case italic versions are place-holders really, as I don't believe
    that the true form is so stiff, like the roman/caps. For a \"scripty\" typeface
    like the Scotch Modern, a script-concept lower case yus is called for. So I'm
    passing the ball to you--please post a suitable model/precedent for such a character.\r\nHere
    is a comparison of the standard Cyrillic lower case characters, with the italic
    forms that diverge most (in this typeface) in form:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/divergence_4998.jpg]"
  created: '2007-06-11 20:09:53'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "On the last weekend [[Todor Vardjiev]] was giving a very good presentation
    at the [[Typotage Leipzig]] about the Bulgarian [[Cyrilliza]].\r\n\r\nLatin vs
    Russian vs Bulgarian letter shapes\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_6846_4999.jpg]\r\n\r\nmore
    photos: \r\nhttp://www.astype.de/misc/typotage07.htm -\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/ralf_herrmann/tags/typotage/\r\n\r\n--<a
    href=\"http://www.astype.de\" target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2007-06-20 10:40:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hmm. I see that Mr Vardjiev's example shows \"ze\" with descender -- is this
    the latest Bulgarian trend? And will they not be satisfied until every lower case
    letter has either an ascender,  descender, or both? :-) \r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nBrian,
    if you're still reading this thread --any luck with the italic lower case little
    yus reference?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-20 16:13:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Cyrillic can definitely use many more extenders. Heck, even Latin\r\ndoesn't
    have enough. But of course it's possible to go too far the other way.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-20 16:21:19'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "i wish i could see what's behind that Mac screen.\r\ni think most of the
    Bulgarian preferred forms are not that radical, but i despise that '\u044E' with
    an ascender. Perhaps I've said this before, but the \"Bulgarian\" forms are simply
    script forms adapted to type, and for the most part they are not that uniquely
    \"Bulgarian.\" See <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/pauldhunt/428260560/in/set-72157600292550299/\">Semibold
    Grotesk\"</a>, for reference.\r\n\r\ni've posted some photos of Cyrillic grotesks
    that follow this model <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/pauldhunt/sets/72157600292550299/\">on
    flickr</a>, I'll try to upload a few more."
  created: '2007-06-20 16:56:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>they are not that uniquely \u201CBulgarian.\u201D </em>\r\n\r\nNo, but
    that's the country that is implementing the alternative as a reform, so it's as
    good a name as any for the phenomenon."
  created: '2007-06-20 19:28:01'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "Paul, use the 2nd link to Ralfs flickr account and you will see the screen
    from an other direction. [[Todor Vardjiev]] showed a lot of high quality type
    designs from his colleges and students, all in cyrilliza, latin and some times
    greek to. This style is not new, If I remeber it right, its teached since the
    late 60th at National Academy of Arts at Sofia. [[CYRILLIZA]] is not a special
    form of [[Cyrillic]], as he mentioned it - its an own alphabet and now the third
    official alphabet of the the European union. Watch, he is wearing a blue t-shird
    wich yellow [[Cyrilliza]] letters. :-)\r\n\r\nBut no foundry is developing it!
    Only Hermes Soft, but he has no good experiences with this foundry. So most documents
    use Cyrillic letters, but for a Bulgarian patriot this is dishonoring.\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/ralf_herrmann/561269913/
    -\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/ralf_herrmann/561272437/ -\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/ralf_herrmann/560849498/
    -\r\n\r\nOne of his master students was [[Ilia Gruev]]. So far he have done some
    really good text typefaces: Graphit, Scribo and Memo. But to the western (internet)
    world, unkown. \r\n\r\nhttp://www.moire.info/en_shrift_i_1.html\r\n\r\nHe showed
    also typefaces from Ivan Kjossev\u2020 (Bibliophonika), Olga\u2020 and Vassil
    Jontschev\u2020 (Viol), Milka Peikova, Stefan Gruev\u2020 (Wawel), Vassil Stefanov
    and Razvigor Kolev.\r\n\r\nBTW: Its not possible for me to add new type designers
    to the wiki. (Indices : Type Designers) It will no be saved. A bug or a feature?\r\n\r\n--<a
    href=\"http://www.astype.de\" target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2007-06-20 20:56:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Cyrilliza</em>\r\n\r\nSo this is the correct name for this branch of
    the Cyrillic alphabet?\r\n\r\nWill people know what I'm talking about if I refer
    to my fonts as \"supporting the Cyrilliza alphabet\" -- or would it also be good
    to add \"(Bulgarian)\"?\r\n\r\nAnd should I make the Cyrilliza alternates available
    as a \"Stylistic Set\" as well as with the Bulgarian language tag?\r\n\r\n<em>But
    no foundry is developing it! </em>\r\n\r\nI have, and will be releasing a suite
    of serif (see above) and sans fonts with it this Autumn."
  created: '2007-06-20 21:27:48'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "Nick, the brave. :-) Hm, I'm not sure if [[Cyrilliza]] should be the official
    English name for it. Its sounds quite nice. At this point, we need some typophile
    Bulgarians! This is the homepage of the National Academy of Arts: http://www.nha-bg.org.
    Maybe, Nick you should ask someone form the book & printed graphics department.\r\n\r\nI
    would make a stylistic set and would use the local feature too.\r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\"
    target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2007-06-20 21:44:17'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>CYRILLIZA is not a special form of Cyrillic, as he mentioned it - its
    an own alphabet and now the third official alphabet of the the European union.</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is very confusing. I should like to see the official EU documentation on this.
    <em>cyrilliza</em> is just a different way of transliterating <a href=\"http://ru.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%9A%D0%B8%D1%80%D0%B8%D0%BB%D0%BB%D0%B8%D1%86%D0%B0\">\u043A\u0438\u0440\u0438\u043B\u043B\u0438\u0446\u0430</a>
    (pronounced ki\u027Eili\u02A6\u0259), which in English we translate as <em>Cyrillic</em>."
  created: '2007-06-20 22:53:14'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "Paul, you see the cultural source of your information? This is the one source
    of the \"problem\"? Even EU government institutions use the \"common\" fonts -
    Arial & Co. :-) So you can image how Mr. Vadjiev and his colleges feel if they
    see such typefaces each day. :-) \r\nI think this can and should be best judged
    by Bulgarian type designers.   \r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\" target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2007-06-20 23:43:59'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<a href=\"http://bg.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%9A%D0%B8%D1%80%D0%B8%D0%BB%D0%B8%D1%86%D0%B0\">Bulgarian:
    \u043A\u0438\u0440\u0438\u043B\u0438\u0446\u0430</a>.\r\n\r\nThere, is that better?"
  created: '2007-06-20 23:47:31'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<ul><li><em>Cyrilliza. So this is the correct name for this branch of the
    Cyrillic alphabet? Will people know what I'm talking about if I refer to my fonts
    as \"supporting the Cyrilliza alphabet\" \u2015 or would it also be good to add</em>
    \"(<em>Bulgarian</em>)\"<em>?</em> </li></ul>\r\n\r\nNick, in many Slavic languages,
    including Russian, <em>\u041A\u0438\u0440\u0438\u043B\u043B\u0438\u0446\u0430</em>
    (reads \u2018Kirillitsa\u2019) stands for '<a href=http://ru.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%9A%D0%B8%D1%80%D0%B8%D0%BB%D0%BB%D0%B8%D1%86%D0%B0
    target=\"_blank\">Cyrillic alphabet</a>'. Likewise, <em>\u0413\u043B\u0430\u0433\u043E\u043B\u0438\u0446\u0430</em>
    (\u2018Glagolitsa\u2019) means 'Glagolitic', and <em>\u041B\u0430\u0442\u0438\u043D\u0438\u0446\u0430</em>
    (\u2018Latinitsa\u2019) \u2015 \u2018Latin\u2019 [alphabet, or script].\r\n\r\nAmong
    non-Bulgarian designers the subject of this discussion is sometimes referred to,
    for lack of a better term, as <em>\u0411\u043E\u043B\u0433\u0430\u0440\u0438\u0446\u0430</em>
    (\u2018Bolgaritsa\u2019). However, by no means should it be mistaken for an official
    definition: it's a type designers' slang. There are a few nicknames of this kind,
    like <em>Armyanitsa</em>, <em>Gruzinitsa</em>, <em>Evreitsa</em>, <em>Arabitsa</em>,
    &c.\r\n\r\nSure enough, this is not a <em>branch of the Cyrillic alphabet</em>.
    It is a special pattern, an inflection of the l.c. glyph construction. The alphabet,
    or more correctly, the script, is still the same, Cyrillic. The character set
    is <a href=http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bulgarian_alphabet#Bulgarian target=\"_blank\">Bulgarian</a>,
    of course."
  created: '2007-06-20 23:52:28'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<ul><li><em>Bulgarian: \u043A\u0438\u0440\u0438\u043B\u0438\u0446\u0430.
    \r\nThere, is that better?</em></li></ul>\r\nIt is. I stand corrected. The spelling
    of the word word 'Cyrillic' varies among most Slavic languages using that script:\r\n<ul><li>Belarusian:
    \u043A\u0456\u0440\u044B\u043B\u0456\u0446\u0430;</li><li>Bulgarian: \u043A\u0438\u0440\u0438\u043B\u0438\u0446\u0430;</li><li>Macedonian:
    \u043A\u0438\u0440\u0438\u043B\u0438\u0446\u0430;</li><li>Russian: \u043A\u0438\u0440\u0438\u043B\u043B\u0438\u0446\u0430;</li><li>Serbian:
    \u045B\u0438\u0440\u0438\u043B\u0438\u0446\u0430;</li><li>Ukrainian: \u043A\u0438\u0440\u0438\u043B\u0438\u0446\u044F.</li></ul>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-22 11:11:18'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<em>Brian, if you're still reading this thread --any luck with the italic
    lower case little yus reference?</em>\r\n\r\nI'm sorry I've kept you waiting.
    I went scouring all over the Internet for samples of early modern Bulgarian printed
    works that include italics\u2014how I miss having access to a large university
    library!\u2014and after some <a href=\"http://www.library.uiuc.edu/spx/class/Periodicals/Bulgaria/bulgperimages/russe.jpg\">frustrating
    'almost' finds</a>, Google Books bailed me out:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://books.google.com/books?id=KX8CAAAAQAAJ&pg=PA2\">A
    grammar of the Bulgarian language with exercises and English and Bulgarian vocabularies
    (1859)</a> includes a table of the letters that include italic forms. Perhaps
    because it reflects a chaotic situation in terms of orthography at the time, it
    also includes a variety of iotified forms including the iotified yus. It includes
    some interesting information, such as that the fact that most of the books then
    in use were printed in Russia, where some of the letters not available were substituted,
    including yus with 'y' (p. 10).\r\n\r\nThe italic yus, as far as I can tell from
    the low-resolution scan, simply looks like a slanted yus.\r\n\r\nThat's all I
    could find so far, and I hope the Bulgarians here can provide more help on the
    italic forms of obsolete letters."
  created: '2007-06-23 03:25:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks Brian.\r\nI love the exercise phrases in that 1859 book.\r\n\r\nI'll
    post images of some yus's soon."
  created: '2007-06-23 07:01:49'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<em>I love the exercise phrases in that 1859 book.</em>\r\n\r\nCharming,
    aren't they?\r\n\r\nWhat kind of needles has he brought from Hamburg? (p. 62)\r\nWhen
    we were rich we also wore fine clothes. (p. 89)\r\nFrom whom do you come? I come
    from the shoemakers. (p. 98)\r\nWhere are you going in this rain, in this bad
    weather, in this cold, in this dust? (p. 98)\r\n\r\nWhen I saw that you were doing
    a 19th-century revival, I thought it would be nice to have the additional Bulgarian
    letters appropriate for the period. After looking at the low-resolution samples
    online of Bulgarian printed texts from the period, I'm only more convinced that
    those letters would be excellent additions to your project.\r\n\r\nThe typographic
    component of the Bulgarian revival seems to have owed a lot to the Cyrillic types
    produced in the Russian Empire, and the Adolf Darre typeface you chose is as good
    a representative as any. I confess I'm not really a fan of moderns for Latin type,
    but for Cyrillic this period style seems to work perfectly, with the vertical
    stress and prominent bulbs. I'm sure a quality digital revival will serve as a
    welcome source of inspiration for today's cyrillic type designers."
  created: '2007-06-23 08:13:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>it would be nice to have the additional Bulgarian letters appropriate
    for the period.</em>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bulg2_6700.jpg]\r\n\r\nIn
    this little section, there are a couple of iotified forms, so those, and possibly
    others, would have to be added too.\r\nThe accents could be done by the typographer.\r\n\r\nBut
    who would use such a font?\r\nFor comparison, it would be like setting Shakespeare
    in English with long s's -- sure, it would be nice, and very authentic, but consider
    how little demand there would be for that -- despite the huge readership of Shakespeare
    -- and compare that with the number of readers of old Bulgarian! \r\n\r\nOne would
    be better employed, as Adobe has recently done, extending Cyrillic support to
    cover further tens of millions of present-day readers/writers -- and is still
    criticized (on the Phinney blog) for its discretionary cut off-line that leaves
    out several languages."
  created: '2007-06-23 17:38:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/iotified_4464.jpg]\r\n\r\nAnd here is
    an iotified little yus.\r\n\r\nSo for 1859 Bulgarian I need to add:\r\n\r\nlittle
    yus\r\niotified little yus\r\niotified a\r\niotifed e\r\n\r\nAny more?\r\n\r\nConsidering
    that each weight has roman and italic, caps, small caps, and lower case, that's
    six different glyphs for each character,  and at the moment I have a family of
    \"only\" three weights/styles, so that's 72 extra glyphs required to implement
    the feature... "
  created: '2007-06-23 18:34:45'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: So, I just got back from a trip to Vladimir (180km outside of Moscow), and
    I was amazed at how many shop signs there use "Bulgarian" glyphs (k and zhe with
    ascenders, "italic" d, t, etc. in upright use, etc.). I can post a picture or
    two if people want.
  created: '2007-06-25 07:41:51'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: <ul><li><em>any luck with the italic lower case little yus reference?</em></li></ul>Nick,
    I've got you <a href="http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/ru/4/4c/%D0%9F%D1%80%D0%B8%D0%BC%D0%B5%D1%80%D1%8B_%D0%95_%D0%B9%D0%BE%D1%82%D0%B8%D1%80%D0%BE%D0%B2%D0%B0%D0%BD%D0%BD%D0%BE%D0%B3%D0%BE_%D0%B2_%D0%B3%D1%80%D0%B0%D0%B6%D0%B4%D0%B0%D0%BD%D0%BA%D0%B5.gif">one</a>,
    although cursive, not italic. However, it's not a little yus, but a <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_Yus"><em>big</em>
    one</a> that was part of the Bulgarian alphabet until 1945. I believe, its <a
    href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yus">iotated cousin</a> was also used in Bulgaria,
    until 1910s. There were attempts of using the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/E_iotified">iotated
    e</a> in Bulgarian writing in mid-19th century (those are highlighted in red in
    the picture I refer to). Also, there are some claims to the occasional use of
    the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ya_%28Cyrillic%29">iotated a</a> in
    the second half of 19th century. You're sure you want to go there?
  created: '2007-06-25 14:28:25'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Nick, \r\n\r\nregarding this image: \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bulga_5512.jpg]\r\nI
    really don't think you should include both \"b\" variants (the ones in top right
    corner). The first form (with very little space between the bowl and the foxtail)
    is just poorly proportioned, and the second form is simply good, and works for
    Russian much better than the first one. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-25 15:08:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks for your concern Adam, but my face is a revival, and that \"b\" is
    the way it was made in this genre of typeface in the late 19th century. \r\n\r\nHere
    are examples from four different books (one of which is a type specimen) of that
    era.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bees_6262.jpg]\r\n\r\nI was tempted
    to give my face a plumb-line, vertically-stemmed \"y\" tail, but decided that
    consistency with the latin over-rode that, and not all Cyrillic y's of that era
    had vertical tails, although from a design point it makes sense, avoiding bumping
    into the teeth (descenders) of preceding characters such as \"de\"."
  created: '2007-06-25 17:47:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>You're sure you want to go there?</em>\r\n\r\nWell, I let you talk me
    into making Fita, Yat, and Izhitsa :-)\r\nActually, I have decided against backwards
    compatability with 19th century Bulgarian.\r\nIt's one thing to do a type revival,
    but language revival is a horse of a different colour.\r\nThanks for the sample,
    though.\r\n\r\nBut seriously, let's talk about the yat. Pushkin, the great early-19th
    century author, used it, so the theory goes that it would be good to set his work
    that way (and a Scotch Modern would be the authentic type style) -- but what is
    the demand or inclination for that kind of thing? Wouldn't one employ one's time
    better making, for instance, schwa --to support present day Khazak users, etc?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-25 18:08:39'
- author:
    name: kateliev
    picture: 128208
  body: .
  created: '2008-01-17 18:43:38'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "Dear Nick,\r\nI think that yat was a linguistic ballast in Pushkin's times.
    But... \r\nHe probably used it as tool of poetry; for various technical, or aesthetic,
    romantic reasons. \r\nIncluding yat in the font could be a great hommage to his
    poetry. I suppose the poems (\"modernised\", written with e instead of \u0462),
    loose the melody and probably some rhymes. \r\n"
  created: '2010-06-08 10:13:33'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "It is true that Church Slavonic is sometimes called Old Bulgarian, and that
    Russia and Bulgaria have had their own independent historical development of the
    Cyrillic letterforms.\r\n\r\nBut to go from there to criticizing Russian influence
    on Bulgarian type design as somehow inauthentic seems to be lacking something.
    Do people complain when Optima is used to set English texts as well as German
    ones, or when Bodoni is used to set French texts as well as Italian ones? No;
    it is recognized that from Poland to Spain, people are all using the same Latin
    alphabet, even if with slightly different sets of accented letters, and so of
    course they have the same pool of typefaces to choose from - even if different
    letter frequencies might make some typefaces more aesthetic in conjunction with
    some languages.\r\n\r\nBulgaria, Serbia, the Ukraine, Belarus, and so on share
    the Cyrillic alphabet with Russia. Here, some of the languages actually have additional
    letters, so the diversity is somewhat greater. But it is still not a question
    of trying to shoehorn one alphabet into the typefaces made for another - i.e.,
    to take an Armenian typeface, and try to use those exact forms and styling for
    Amharic or Gujarati or Greek or Cyrillic or Latin."
  created: '2010-06-08 12:56:51'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "Dear Marcin, \r\n\r\nI am not sure what you mean by \u2018linguistic ballast\u2019.
    In early 19th-century Russia using yat\u2019\u2014and also the decimal i, the
    fita, the izhitsa, the terminal yer, all abolished in 1918\u2014was not an option.
    For sure, Pushkin did not use the yat\u2019 \u2018as a tool of poetry\u2019; b.t.w.,
    he also used it in his prose, his essays, his correspondence, his notes, his diaries,
    etc. He simply followed the standard spelling rules used in his times. \r\n\r\nF.y.i.,
    the <a href=\"http://www.cms4site.ru/ru-joke-13-1917.html\">pre-1918 spelling</a>
    is <em>still used</em>\u2014in Russia and world-wide\u2014in clerical literature,
    scholarly print, even <a href=\"http://lib.russportal.ru/index.php?id=index\">general
    publishing</a>. This is why the letters whose use was officially discontinued
    in 1918 are often included in the digital Cyrillic fonts."
  created: '2010-06-08 15:50:27'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "I introduced confusion. I know, that Lomonosov stated that the difference
    between sounds of \u0462 and e was barely unrecognisable. For me it looked like
    the evolving language started to throw the ballast away. But the rest of my post
    was overinterpretation. Old spelling rules were ubiquitous at the time (and they
    come back as we've seen), so yat' should be included in good Cyrillic font. \r\n\r\nLet
    me quote this photo as my self-ironic dedication to you, Mr. Maxim. Thank you.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/800px-Pan_Tadeusz_Ru_1902_6437.jpg]\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-09 08:52:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the pre-1918 spelling is still used\u2014in Russia and world-wide\u2014in
    clerical literature, scholarly print, even general publishing. </em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    it is considered spelling, according to the Unicode distinction between character
    and glyph.\r\nBy the same token, the long s (used by all English authors prior
    to 1800) should be considered different spelling.\r\nIt was not abolished by government
    decree, but fell from usage.\r\n\r\nI'm pretty sure, however, that nobody really
    considers the long s to be a different spelling, any more than changing from two-bowl
    \"g\" to single bowl."
  created: '2010-06-09 17:00:07'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "To use yat', you need to hear it or know spelling rules. Without learning
    them, I, as a Pole, could only guess where to put it into Russian text, observing
    flexion of my language. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Slavenskoj
    body: "Yat' apears mostly where Polish uses ia: bia\u0142y \u2192 \u0431\u0463\u043B\u044B\u0439.\r\nFor
      Czech speakers, yat' appears where \u011B appears, and sometimes \xED: d\xEDlo,
      d\u011Blo \u2192 \u0434\u0463\u043B\u043E, v Praz\u011B \u2192 \u0432 \u041F\u0440\u0430\u0433\u0463.\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2013-05-28 23:38:36'
  created: '2010-06-10 10:13:58'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Nick \u2013 at the risk of pointing out the obvious (and offtopic too), the
    long s is not just a stylistic variant of the \"s\"; its use does (did) follow
    spelling rules. The comparison to one-story or two-story \"g\" does not make much
    sense to me, as those are purely variations in style, without roots in orthography."
  created: '2010-06-10 10:21:25'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<ul><li><em>To use yat', you need to hear it or know spelling rules.</em></li></ul>What\u2019s
    wrong with knowing spelling rules? Of your own, or a foreign language? Yes, in
    almost all languages there are many spelling conventions one could declare \u2018a
    linguistic ballast\u2018\u2026 Say, why shouldn\u2019t one spell <em>physics</em>
    as <em>fiziks</em>? That could work much better, right?\r\n\r\nMarcin, it looks
    like you know Russian. If you do, check that excellent <a href=\"http://www.elzabair.ru/cntnt/lmenu/biblioteka/lyubimye_s1/bajburin_a.html\">essay
    on <em>yer</em></a> (the hard sign) written by Professor Albert Baiburin. It is
    very well written. I loved his quoting Leon Trotsky\u2019s passionate rejection
    of <em>yat\u2019</em>:\r\n\r\n<ul><li><em>The letter </em>yat\u2019<em>, as well
    as </em>the hard sign<em>, the </em>fita<em> and the </em>izhitsa<em> belong to
    that nobility class in our alphabet which has been eliminated by the October Revolution.
    Those were unnecessary, redundant letters, of the parasitic-gentility kind. They\u2019ve
    been done away with </em>[\u2026]<em>. As to the other letters, which are truly
    necessary\u2014they have no noble, parasitic lineage, but are indeed hard-toiling,
    working letters.\u2019</em></li></ul>Ah! \xE7a ira, \xE7a ira, \xE7a ira. Tous
    les signes durs on les pendra!"
  created: '2010-06-10 15:39:09'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Maxim, I prefer 'fizix'.
  created: '2010-06-10 18:30:00'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>Tous les signes durs on les pendra!</cite>\r\n\r\nI thought it was
    only those in final position."
  created: '2010-06-10 19:10:53'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<ul><li><em>I thought it was only those in final position.</em></li></ul></em>In
    actuality those revolutionary sailors came and trashed <em>all</em> yers\u2014both
    upper and lower case, from all compositors\u2019 cases, and all matrices from
    all single-letter- and line-casting machines, from all composing rooms\u2014nation-wide.
    When they recovered themselves it was too late: all yers were gone, and even if
    some have been left, no one would have dared using them. So they started using
    single or double apostrophe for the separating hard sign (e.g., <em>\u043F\u043E\u0434\u2019\u0435\u043C</em>
    instead of <em>\u043F\u043E\u0434\u044A\u0435\u043C</em>); that felt both space-saving
    and politically correct. Here is a fragment of an old memorial plaque I photographed
    in downtown Moscow two years ago:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Yer_Substitute_6072.png]"
  created: '2010-06-11 02:10:44'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "The long s certainly did follow regular rules for its appearance. Essentially,
    the long s was used everywhere, with two exceptions: short s was used at the end
    of a word, and if s occurred twice in a row, the second one was a short s.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    since both the long and short s were forms of the letter S, and because the long/short
    s rules were regular, use of long and short s would be thought of, I would suspect,
    as part of \"how you wrote\" a word, not \"how you spelled\" a word, since how
    you spell a word is the sequence of letters of which it is composed. Thus, \"princess\"
    is spelled P - R - I - N - C - E - S - S even if when you write it in lowercase
    it looks like princefs."
  created: '2010-06-11 04:42:44'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "You can write a substitution table for English that gives on the output the
    long s in the right places  if the input file contains everywhere the letter \"s\"
    instead of   <code>017F\tLATIN SMALL LETTER LONG S</code>. Could you produce a
    unicode font good for Russian that would put the yat in the right positions if
    the input contains everywhere the letter \"\u0435\" instead of <code>0463\tCYRILLIC
    SMALL LETTER YAT</code>?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Slavenskoj
    body: "You can\u2019t write a substitution table, because some cases where \u2018\u0435\u2019
      is to be substituted by \u2018\u0463\u2019 results in multiple options, the
      choice amongst which is non-trivial and requires grammatical analysis of the
      sentence. The same can be said for other letters which appear in classical texts:
      \u2018\u0456\u2019, \u2018\u0475\u2019, \u2018\u0473\u2019. Not only that, but
      the reforms of 1918 changed Russian grammar rules as well as spelling rules.\r\n\r\nThat
      said, I've created an online services that inserts \u2018\u0463\u2019 and other
      letters, including Bulgarian \u2018\u046B\u2019, where they should be in Russian
      and Bulgarian texts using a combination of algorithmic substitutions and dictionary
      lookups. Where multiple options are available for one modern word, all choices
      are presented.\r\n\r\nYou can access the Bulgarian interface at:  <a href=\"http://\u0431\u044A\u043B.\u0441\u043B\u0430\u0432\u0435\u043D\u0438\u0446\u0430.com/\">\u0431\u044A\u043B.\u0441\u043B\u0430\u0432\u0435\u043D\u0438\u0446\u0430.com</a>\r\nSelect
      \u0411\u044A\u0433\u043B\u0430\u0440\u0441\u043A\u0438 - \u043D\u043E\u0432\u0438
      \u043F\u0440\u0430\u0432\u043E\u043F\u0438\u0441 and convert to \u0411\u044A\u043B\u0433\u0430\u0440\u0441\u043A\u0438
      - \u0438\u0432\u0430\u043D\u0447\u0435\u0432\u0441\u043A\u0438 \u043F\u0440\u0430\u0432\u043E\u043F\u0438\u0441.\r\n\r\n\u0440\u044A\u043A\u043E\u043F\u0438\u0441\u043D\u0430
      \u043A\u043D\u0438\u0433\u0430 \u2192 \u0440\u046B\u043A\u043E\u043F\u0438\u0441\u043D\u0430
      \u043A\u043D\u0438\u0433\u0430\r\n\r\nFor Russian, <a href=\"http://\u0440\u0443\u0441.\u0441\u043B\u0430\u0432\u0435\u043D\u0438\u0446\u0430.com/\">\u0440\u0443\u0441.\u0441\u043B\u0430\u0432\u0435\u043D\u0438\u0446\u0430.com</a>\r\nSelect
      \u0420\u0443\u0441\u0441\u043A\u0438\u0439 - \u043D\u043E\u0432\u043E\u0435
      \u043F\u0440\u0430\u0432\u043E\u043F\u0438\u0441\u0430\u043D\u0438\u0435 and
      convert to \u0420\u0443\u0441\u0441\u043A\u0456\u0439 - \u043F\u0435\u0442\u0440\u043E\u0432\u0441\u043A\u043E\u0435
      \u043F\u0440\u0430\u0432\u043E\u043F\u0438\u0441\u0430\u043D\u0438\u0435.\r\n"
    created: '2013-05-27 22:09:40'
  created: '2010-06-11 11:53:35'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Sorry* \u2013 I realize now I should've said I was thinking of German. AFAIK
    you can't do correct s -> longs substitution automatically in German; except maybe
    with a huge dictionary.\r\n(* For any confusion; and also for sidetracking the
    thread.)"
  created: '2010-06-11 12:12:49'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: And I meant "opentype", not "unicode".
  created: '2010-06-11 12:13:32'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: '...and I would never write that knowing spelling rules. I just wanted to
    say, that the appearance of yat'' is based on much more complicated rules than
    those of the long s.'
  created: '2010-06-11 14:13:27'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "OFFTOPIC: excellent essay. I don't remember when I read something so joyful
    and pleasant in Internet! \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-11 14:56:51'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<ul><li><em>if s occurred twice in a row, the second one was a short s</em></li></ul>Not
    necessarily. Even in <a href=\"http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fraktursatz#Langes_s.2C_rundes_s_und_Eszett\">Fraktur
    typography</a> where the use of the long \u017F is not a stylistic option, not
    every s in the beginning and the middle of the word should be made tall, and not
    every second s short. On the other hand, historically, the \u017F\u017F combination
    was not entirely out of question:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fournier_Page_V_2_6281.png]\r\n\r\nPlease
    note those <em>n\xE9ce\u017F\u017Fit\xE9</em>, <em>commi\u017F\u017Fionnaire</em>,
    <em>\u017Fage\u017F\u017Fe</em>. The \u017F\u017F ligature is part of the glyph
    sets of some popular digital fonts (shown here are Arno, Garamond Premier, and
    Adobe Caslon): \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Long_s_4413.png]"
  created: '2010-06-11 15:20:09'
- author:
    name: jeff11
  body: Cyrillic types from Bulgaria are more than calligraphy. It's art. I came across
    it while at the phoenix web design about a year ago.
  created: '2010-08-13 12:51:00'
- author:
    name: tourdeforce
    picture: 117300
  body: "All this just for spelling issue?\r\nHm... whatever anyone said, I'd always
    call it \u040B\u0438\u0440\u0438\u043B\u0438\u0446\u0430 like we were taught and
    generations before us.\r\nFor English version of this word... I really don't care
    so much cause probably big % of English spoken population couldn't said \u040B\u0438\u0440\u0438\u043B\u0438\u0446\u0430
    on proper way like we said in Serbia... so if you ask me, I think no one should
    be offended by this."
  created: '2010-08-13 14:03:50'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "Just tried the \u201E\u0431\u043B\u0463\u0434\u043D\u043E-\u0441\u0463\u0440\u044B\u0439
    \u0431\u0463\u0434\u043D\u044B\u0439 \u0431\u0463\u0441\u044A \u0443\u0431\u0463\u0436\u0430\u043B\u044A,
    \u0431\u0463\u0434\u043D\u044F\u0433\u0430, \u0432\u044A \u043B\u0463\u0441\u044A\u201C.
    Works fine. Thank you very much, Danslav."
  created: '2013-05-27 16:25:18'
- author:
    name: kateliev
    picture: 128208
  body: .
  created: '2013-08-05 15:10:43'
- author:
    name: kateliev
    picture: 128208
  body: .
  created: '2013-08-05 15:11:35'
- author:
    name: kateliev
    picture: 128208
  body: < deleted >
  created: '2013-08-05 15:12:39'
- author:
    name: kateliev
    picture: 128208
  body: < removed >
  created: '2013-08-05 15:13:17'
- author:
    name: kateliev
    picture: 128208
  body: <>
  created: '2013-08-05 15:14:25'
date: '2007-06-06 09:17:45'
title: Cyrillic questionary booth

---
