---
author:
  name: colore
body: "hello\r\n\r\nwhats the less eye tiring font?\r\n\r\nwhich for computer screen
  and which for printed media\r\n\r\nthanks "
comments:
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Can you generalize more your question, it's too specific.
  created: '2007-06-09 10:07:46'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"whats the less eye tiring font?\"\r\nI'll assume this means to read. \r\n\r\n\"which
    for computer screen and which for printed media\"\r\nFor screens users prefer
    to \xA1see! either b & w, grey scale or ClearType but usually San Serif types.
    There is debate, indicating to me a wide spectrum of user preference (as well
    as a loud club of \"invented HERE\" pushers-in-action), over these three rendering
    techniques, and which is best for any given combination of user, screen, environment
    and reading preferences. When seeing is not enough and \xA1reading! is desired,
    *things* change, but it's difficult to know exactly how since no one has done
    comparative studies of the same fonts and readers and content.\r\n\r\nPrint is
    easy, people like to read serif fonts. Adobe Garamond, Poynter Old Style or Century
    Schoolbook are three good examples of widely used text faces for print that do
    not tire users out as much as others. \r\n\r\nGood luck!"
  created: '2007-06-09 12:42:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> a wide spectrum of user preference\r\n\r\nMore like a bipolar disorder.
    Mac-heads used to think b&w bitmaps were better than moderate anti-aliasing, now
    they think FullFuzz\u2122 is best. Windozers mostly just take whatever you throw
    at them with a \"Huh?\" Actually the latter is a bit less bad, because you don't
    want religion interfering in the optimization of reading.\r\n\r\nMe, I invent
    what I push, not push what I invent:\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/manademo/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-09 17:07:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Colore, I have suggested before in this forum a measure for reading fatigue.
    My thought is that it is not so much the eyes as the brain that is tired when
    type and typography is less than optimal. My suggestion was to measure how soon
    reading comprehension declines over time--from fatigue--under varying conditions.
    \r\n\r\nTo my knowledge, this kind of experiment has not been done yet. "
  created: '2007-06-09 17:28:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Bunches of things haven't yet been done, and\r\nwon't be, as long as the
    bouma model is denied.\r\n\r\nAnd of course it's the brain that gets tired and
    not not the eyes.\r\nOtherwise we couldn't keep looking at stuff all day without
    having to close them.\r\n\r\nHowever, measuring reading comprehension is unnecessarily
    complex and brittle.\r\nComprehension is self-regulating - all you really need
    to measure is speed.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-09 17:31:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">all you really need to measure is speed.\r\n\r\nThat is already being done,
    as I understand from Kevin Larson's posts here. \r\n\r\nI think measuring decline
    of comprehension with time might better discriminate between better and worse
    type and typography.\r\n\r\nI don't know whether it will turn out to be a more
    sensitive measure, but it seems to me worth a try. \r\n\r\nOne might also measure
    decline of speed with time, which so far as I know has also not been tried. \r\n\r\nI
    would suggest trying both to see whether there is a difference. The key thing
    in either case is to give time for fatigue to set in. It may be that having demanding
    reading material will also help get more sharp discrimination to show up.  "
  created: '2007-06-09 17:43:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> That is already being done\r\n\r\nNon-immersively. No good.\r\n\r\n> decline
    of speed with time\r\n\r\nNo, just speed to complete a long reading task.\r\n\r\n>
    having demanding reading material will also\r\n> help get more sharp discrimination
    to show up.\r\n\r\nNo, that moves the measurement from perception to comprehension,\r\nwith
    the latter being outside the scope of typography and type.\r\n\r\nThe content
    has to be \"normal\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-09 19:33:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">No, just speed to complete a long reading task.\r\n\r\nWhy not measure the
    decline with time? The profile may tell us something. \r\n\r\nThe main thing is
    to push the length of time to where fatigue sets in, and there is a decline in
    comprehension or speed or both to varying degrees. \r\n\r\n>No, that moves the
    measurement from perception to comprehension,\r\nwith the former being outside
    the scope of typography and type.\r\n\r\nDid you mean instead 'the latter', that
    comprehension is outside the scope of typography? I don't agree, but surely perception
    is within the scope of typography. \r\n"
  created: '2007-06-09 19:41:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Why not measure the decline with time?\r\n\r\nYou could. Like you say,
    you could measure many things,\r\nand each will give some bit of insight. But
    as usual it's a\r\nmatter of priorities.\r\n\r\n> The main thing is to push the
    length of time\r\n\r\nYes, but equally important is to foster deep immersion,
    via non-invasive\r\ntesting and... good typography! We need to measure the difference
    between\r\ngood and exceptional, not good and horrible, because in the latter
    boumas\r\nnever have a chance anyway.\r\n\r\n> Did you mean instead \u2018the
    latter\u2019\r\n\r\nYes, sorry - I edited it, but apparently not fast enough.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-09 19:47:19'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "I think there\u2019s a strong need to understand eye fatigue. When someone
    breaks a finger there is an understanding that the bone in the finger fractured
    and that it can be repaired by stabilizing it and giving it stress-free time to
    repair. With eye fatigue we don\u2019t seem to agree even if the fatigue is in
    the eye or brain.\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve been partnering with optometrist James Sheedy\u2019s
    visual ergonomics lab to learn more about eye fatigue. I\u2019m putting together
    a talk for ATypI to talk about some of the findings from his lab.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-09 19:52:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Certainly saccading is fatiguing - and really that's the\r\nwhole point.
    I guess that doesn't count as brain fatigue,\r\nbut neither does it count as retina
    fatigue... However I\r\ndo see that what I wrote above is misleading; possibly
    I\r\nwas too eager to dampen William's contribution - sorry.\r\n\r\nAnyway to
    me it's moot what part is getting tired first.\r\nInstinctively I simply work
    from the assumption that\r\nfixation duration should decrease and saccade distance\r\nshould
    increase, and the type can help, by making it\r\neasier to map the shapes to words.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-09 20:00:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I\u2019ve been partnering with optometrist James Sheedy\u2019s visual ergonomics
    lab to learn more about eye fatigue.\r\n\r\nThat's great. But if there is a real
    difference between legibility [ability to distinguish letters quickly and accurately
    when flashed at you]  and readability [ease of absorbing meaning] then increased
    brain fatigue as opposed to eye fatigue must be involved in equally legible but
    less readable material.\r\n\r\nLooking only at eye strain would seem to prejudge
    the issue that there is no valid distinction. Why not look actively for this,
    and actually test it rather than prejudging it?\r\n\r\nAfter all, typographers
    for over fifty years have thought the distinction is valid. They may be wrong,
    but such a prevalent view is at least worth testing, it seems to me. \r\n\r\nAlso
    it seems to me that the mental fatigue factor should be pretty readily evident,
    as you can always lengthen reading time to where everybody gets fatigued and performance--either
    speed or comprehension or both--go down. Then you can see whether there is a difference
    between, eg, the same font with different leading and measure, or different fonts
    that test as equally legible. "
  created: '2007-06-09 20:05:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> increased brain fatigue as opposed to eye fatigue must be\r\n> involved
    in equally legible but less readable material.\r\n\r\nSure, but how is that related
    to typography?\r\n\r\n> such a prevalent view is at least worth testing\r\n\r\nHere
    I totally agree.\r\nAnd the same thing applies to the serif, concerning which
    I've tried to\r\nconvince Kevin not to simply ignore the mountain of anecdotal
    evidence.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-09 20:13:45'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "> After all, typographers for over fifty years have thought the distinction
    is valid. They may be wrong, but such a prevalent view is at least worth testing,
    it seems to me. \r\n\r\nI think mental fatigue is also an interesting area of
    investigation. For me it made sense to start with eye fatigue as people complain
    about eye fatigue from computer usage, and I\u2019d like to do something to reduce
    that problem, and Sheedy is a top optometrist interested in solving user problems
    related to computer vision syndrome.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-09 20:22:13'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "> Certainly saccading is fatiguing\r\n\r\nHow do you know? What would you
    measure to detect fatigue? How to measure eye fatigue is one of our key questions.
    \r\n\r\nI actually wouldn\u2019t have guessed that saccading is fatiguing as we
    our eyes constantly saccade when open (and sometimes when closed too). Is breathing
    fatiguing?\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-09 20:30:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">people complain about eye fatigue from computer usage\r\n\r\nAbsolutely
    this is an important area worthy of research, and am glad you are looking into--just
    as a suffering user!  \r\n\r\nI look forward to research on the other issue of
    brain fatigue as well, because I think it will capture a lot of the issues that
    traditionally print typographers have been concerned with. For example the sans
    vs serif in extended text--which I think is mixed up with the % black and spacing
    issues--will I think more likely yield to the extended test looking into the fatigue
    factor.\r\n\r\nedit: Upon reflection, I think that the key thing in distinguishing
    legibility and readability is not whether the fatigue is due to eye fatigue or
    brain fatigue, but simply that fatigue is a variable somewhat independent from
    legibility.    "
  created: '2007-06-09 20:41:01'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: I love reading Minion!!! Very easy on the eyes!
  created: '2007-06-09 23:23:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> people complain about eye fatigue from computer usage\r\n\r\nBut extrapolating
    that to print is dangerous.\r\n\r\n> How do you know?\r\n\r\nCommon sense.\r\nA
    key to good design.\r\n\r\nBut, of course, I do not Know. I do however Think.\r\n\r\n>
    What would you measure to detect fatigue?\r\n\r\nSpeed. Just leave it all up to
    speed.\r\nWith the right testing parameters, it's all you need.\r\nHow do I \"know\"?
    Instinct.\r\n\r\n> Is breathing fatiguing?\r\n\r\nIf you do it fast enough for
    a long enough time, of course. Just like there's strolling to admire the scenery
    versus running to catch the bus, there's reading a magazine in a waiting room
    versus reading a research paper for tomorrow's meeting.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-09 23:42:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>And of course it\u2019s the brain that gets tired and not not the eyes.
    Otherwise we couldn\u2019t keep looking at stuff all day without having to close
    them.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm sorry, Hrant, I can't tell whether you are being facetious
    or actually mean this. Maybe my brain is tired :)\r\n\r\nOf course, by this silly
    argument, we couldn't keep thinking stuff all day without having to shut down
    our brain from time to time. Hmm. \r\n\r\nEye strain is one of the easiest, least
    subjective aspects of reading to measure, because eye movement is controlled by
    muscles and we can compare how those muscles move when performing different tasks,
    including reading different typefaces. Obviously there is going to be greater
    variability in eye strain between larger factors, e.g. different sizes of type,
    quality of reproduction, etc.\r\n\r\nMuscles get tired, so eye-tiredness is, if
    you'll excuse the phrase, a no-brainer. The brain doesn't have moving parts, so
    in what sense does it get tired? Obviously not in the same sense that eyes get
    tired. What happens is that <em>we</em> get tired -- get holistically tired, if
    you like --, and lack of rest starts to affect the brain's ability to function
    properly. Unlike muscle fatigue, which can be addressed by resting or refocusing
    the particular muscle groups -- e.g. closing your eyes, looking at more distant
    objects --, brain fatigue requires overall rest (during which the brain, ironically,
    may be quite active for long periods).\r\n\r\nSo long as I am well-rested, my
    brain  doesn't get tired from reading, and if it does get tired -- i.e. my attention
    wanders, my content retention diminishes -- that is symptomatic of general exhaustion,
    not because I've overexhausted my synapses. My eyes always give out before my
    brain does."
  created: '2007-06-10 03:22:20'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Link to blurb on Kevin's ATypI talk - love the title... \r\n\r\nhttp://www.atypi.org/05_Brighton/20_main_program/view_presentation_html?presentid=384\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-10 04:02:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Thanks, Si. Okay, so correct my previous statement that 'eye strain is one
    of the easiest, least subjective aspects of reading to measure'. It <em>should</em>
    be one of the easier aspects to measure, but apparently researchers have only
    just started trying.
  created: '2007-06-10 04:13:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">So long as I am well-rested, my brain doesn\u2019t get tired from reading,
    and if it does get tired \u2014 i.e. my attention wanders, my content retention
    diminishes \u2014 that is symptomatic of general exhaustion, not because I\u2019ve
    overexhausted my synapses.\r\n\r\nIn general, any repetitive task, mental or physical,
    I think tires one quickly. For example, if you do a series of sums non-stop I
    predict that in not such a long time you will start to make mistakes, and not
    because of general fatigue. --If you switch to push-ups, you won't do fewer than
    you would be able to at the beginning. I may be wrong, but that's the kind of
    thing I'm talking about.  \r\n\r\nIf you don't experience this, you are blessed.
    I personally cannot keep at a single task non-stop without experiencing 'brain
    fry' at some point within an hour. So I stop, take a short break, read Typophile
    :), and then return to the work task. \r\n\r\nAccording to the book <a href=\"http://books.google.com/books?id=fVL5fFYYV5MC&pg=PA38&lpg=PA38&dq=cognitive+fatigue&source=web&ots=wlJ4NeYThd&sig=I88qvoXpECkzflqbBR67EQqikSA#PPA37,M1\">Fatigue
    as a Window on the Brain</a> \"cognitive fatigue\" is a reality, and I see from
    googling that there are scientific articles on cognitive fatigue in astronauts,
    soldiers, victims of multiple sclerosis, stroke and others. Some of this relates
    to the impact of physically induced fatigue on mental performance, but others
    seem to look at the impact of mental tasks. \r\n\r\nKevin Larson above seems to
    think this is a legitimate area of research also. \r\n\r\nI agree with you that
    eye fatigue is certainly real--I've had headaches from wrong lens prescriptions,
    for example--but so is cognitive fatigue, both in my experience and it seems from
    the scientific literature. \r\n\r\nedit: <a href=\"http://cat.inist.fr/?aModele=afficheN&cpsidt=17119944\">This
    article</a> reports a test of mental fatigue due to visual attention tasks. "
  created: '2007-06-10 04:21:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I can\u2019t tell whether you are being facetious\r\n\r\nI was just being
    wrong - see my post of noon.\r\n\r\n> Muscles get tired, so eye-tiredness is,
    if you\u2019ll excuse the phrase, a no-brainer.\r\n\r\nYup. My \"common sense\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-10 04:32:45'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"How to measure eye fatigue is one of our key questions.\" \r\nAnd I have
    no doubt you will find an answer without testing screen vs. print reading. ;)"
  created: '2007-06-10 15:00:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Bill: [perhaps] having demanding reading material will also help get more
    sharp discrimination to show up.\r\n\r\nHrant: No, that moves the measurement
    from perception to comprehension,\r\nwith the latter being outside the scope of
    typography and type.\r\n\r\nLegibility I think is primarily a perception issue--distinguishing
    one letter form from another. But readability has to do with ease of comprehension.
    While it is difficult to draw the line between perception and cognition--there
    are layers of processing--poor typography I think is cognitively taxing. So with
    fatigue induced by long reading of demanding material, the differences between
    better and worse typography may be more evident as our 'elasticity,' our ability
    to put out more effort and compensate for the problems will pass its limit. \r\n\r\nActually,
    looking at some of the material on line about cognitive fatigue, the differences
    in better and worse typography may show up also in subjects who are physically
    fatigued. Just have the subjects run five miles (if they are not marathoners!)
    and have them read something demanding with varying typography, and the differences
    may show up clearly. "
  created: '2007-06-10 15:43:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> readability has to do with ease of comprehension.\r\n\r\nFor authors, editors,
    etc. But for type designers a different distinction between legibility and readability
    exists: the former concerns deliberative reading, the latter immersive. Terminology
    depends on scope and context.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-10 16:23:24'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"apparently researchers have only just started trying.\"\r\nI think you'll
    find that many interests were involved before 1999 in the publishing world, and
    many more have sprung on this since 1999, and that x900 more will begin springing
    up since the beginning of the year 2007. What I learned about print, was that
    aside from abnormal behavioral or physical causes, most print reading fatigue
    is related to being generally fatigued, then comes lack of good physical reading
    posture for the given environment, and then quality of reading material. For screen,
    aside from abnormal behavioral or physical causes, it's reversed. \r\n\r\nThis
    reversal (and recent mushrooming) is, I believe caused by what causes all reading
    fatigue --additional interference in the reading path by unclear edges and adjacentcies
    in the material, and there is just a whole lot more of it on the screen. It'll
    be interesting to see what the pros come up with though.;)"
  created: '2007-06-10 16:52:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">for type designers\r\n\r\nHrant,I have used the distinction as it has been
    used for the past fifty years at least.\r\n\r\nLegibility is how quickly and accurately
    one can read a word or a few words flashed on a screen, or seen as one approaches
    a distant sign on the road. These are different conditions, but would fall under
    'legibility'. Readability is the ease of reading extended text. That subjective
    experience of 'ease' I suspect can be tested by having subjects read to the point
    of fatigue. \r\n\r\nYour different distinction may be valid, but it is yours and
    not a generally used one. I personally don't understand it. "
  created: '2007-06-10 16:56:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I have used the distinction as it has been\r\n> used for the past fifty
    years at least.\r\n\r\nPfft. It's still misleading. \"Eat Moose. 50,000 wolves
    can't be wrong.\"\r\nDon't worry, there are things in type that are 500 years
    old and even\r\nmore misleading.\r\n\r\n> Legibility is how quickly and accurately
    one can\r\n> read a word or a few words flashed on a screen\r\n\r\nThis is not
    a useful definition. For one thing, it leaves no term for the\r\ndecipherment
    of individual letters, which is a critical building-block.\r\n\r\nBTW, this definition
    is not standard at all - in fact it's quite rare.\r\n\r\n> Readability is the
    ease of reading extended text.\r\n\r\nYes, but <cite>in the domain of type</cite>,
    nothing to do with content.\r\n\r\nMy definition-pair accomodates the evidence,
    not least the anecdotal,\r\nfor example that people <cite>think</cite> they can
    read sans better but in fact\r\nwouldn't manage a book in one.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-10 17:10:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hrant, that was an illustration; here is a definition: \r\n\r\n\"'Legibility'
    is based on the ease with which one letter can be told from the other. 'Readability'
    is the ease with which the eye can absorb the message and move along the line.\"\r\n\r\nThat
    definition--which includes both speed and comprehension--is from 'Types of Typefaces',
    1967, reflecting current usage. According to the acknowledgments those who read
    the MS of the book and presumably did not have an objection to the definition
    include W. Hunter Middleton, Ed Rondthaler and Beatrice Warde.   \r\n\r\nIf you
    want to introduce a new distinction, that is fine, but you and I don't get to
    decide on the meaning of publicly used words; it is what it is. In this case the
    definition reflects the usage in the type community it seems since the 30's. "
  created: '2007-06-10 17:41:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You just spontaneously changed your definition of legibility!\r\n\r\nAnyway
    the big old names don't scare me. And Warde? The cheerleader?!\r\nYour hyper-conservative
    attitude has no place in my world.\r\n\r\n> If you want to introduce a new distinction\r\n\r\nI
    did that over 8 years ago.\r\n\r\n> you and I don\u2019t get to decide on the
    meaning of publicly used words\r\n\r\nOf course not. But you and I do get to tell
    each other what we like and don't like\r\nabout our respective definitions. I
    think yours are almost entirely useless.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-10 17:56:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This big old names cannot prevent me from thinking. From my Typo-13 article:\r\n\"In
    questions of science, the authority of a thousand is not worth the humble\r\nreasoning
    of a single individual.\" - Galileo Galilei\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-10 18:01:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hrant, what nonsense are you writing? Nobody is trying to stop you from thinking,
    least of all me. \r\n\r\nAnd I didn't change the definition. I learned it from
    that book, and have cited it on Typophile repeatedly,and put it in the Typowiki.\r\n\r\nWhat
    exactly is your own distinction? As I said I don't understand it, and I'm sure
    others are in the same boat. Please define 'deliberative' and 'immersive', because
    I don't know what they mean, and I'm sure others are in the same boat."
  created: '2007-06-10 18:55:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You wield precedent like a club.\r\n\r\nAnd if you haven't absorbed what
    I've written about this umpteen\r\ntimes over many years, why would you bother
    absorbing it now?\r\nAnyway, Google.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-10 19:01:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">>You wield precedent like a club\r\n\r\nRubbish. I said you are free to
    bring a new distinction. If it is better, more power to you. \r\n\r\n\r\n>And
    if you haven\u2019t absorbed what I\u2019ve written about this umpteen\r\ntimes
    over many years, why would you bother absorbing it now? Anyway, Google.\r\n\r\nI
    tried googling, but didn't find a definition.\r\n\r\nI find you talking about
    immersive reading plenty but I still don't know your definition and don't know
    what you mean.\r\n\r\nI am not the smartest guy in the world, but I am also not
    stupid. And if I'm confused by your terminology then so are others. "
  created: '2007-06-10 19:26:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's not about intelligence, but objective diligence.\r\nGoogle: \"site:typophile.com
    deliberative immersive hhp\"\r\nBut anyway it's not like you just got here. This
    makes me\r\nfeel a bit like a dunce for reading everything you write.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-10 19:50:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hrant, I just googled with the key words you recommended, and got to this
    thread from 2004: http://typophile.com/node/6174\r\n\r\nIn it, John Hudson says
    he doesn't know what you mean by deliberative, and Kevin Larson also says he doesn't
    know. You do make a claim about reading speed for 'immersion' that you then retract.
    So far as I know, that's where it rests, which is why I asked for something new.
    You just seem to take offense, so never mind.  \r\n\r\n>additional interference
    in the reading path by unclear edges and adjacentcies in the material\r\n\r\nThat
    makes sense, but I wonder if there are also additional factors--factors like too
    tight leading or long measure, excessively light or dark type, irregular spacing,
    excessively high contrast between thick and thin, and so on. "
  created: '2007-06-10 20:31:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> http://typophile.com/node/6174\r\n\r\nWhat an objective, diligent choice
    among the 58 hits!\r\nAnd what astute comprehension skills! My last post in\r\nthat
    thread is clearly all retraction...\r\n\r\n> that\u2019s where it rests\r\n\r\nYeah,
    I've been quiet about all this since 2004.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-10 20:36:27'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: Gentium is also great!
  created: '2007-06-11 02:21:22'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Here we have it: David Berlow advertising Adobe Garamond as some kind of
    appropriate font.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2007-10-05 19:17:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>To my knowledge, this kind of experiment has not been done yet.</em>\r\n\r\nClaude
    Hopkins was working \"in the field\" along those lines in the 'teens and 'twenties:\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Life-Advertising-Scientific-Classics-Library/dp/0844231010/ref=pd_sim_b_4/102-2409949-6472113\"><em>Scientific
    Advertising</em></a>\r\n\r\nIIRC, he used split runs of direct mail promotions
    to refine which advertising techniques worked best.\r\nThe pieces were text heavy
    -- he was a copywriter. A great influence on another text-centric ad man, David
    Ogilvy.\r\nIt's been a while since I read the book, and I don't recall whether
    he tested different type treatments, or just different copy.\r\nI do remember
    that Ogilvy used the split-run technique to test two identical versions of a charity
    ad, one with positive type and one with reverse, and the positive type raised
    way more money, not just a percentage, but something like ten times."
  created: '2007-10-05 22:00:05'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" ...two identical versions of a charity ad...\"\r\n\r\n\"whats the less
    eye tiring font?\"\r\n\r\nI'm not sure how long winded your charities are up there,
    but I'd have trouble getting tired from just one.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-10-05 23:30:12'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "the way people experience fatigue from reading is by not bothering to finish
    something... In a magazine, which as I recall is where Ogilvy placed those ads,
    there's always something else to move onto - Even if it's the next ad or piece
    of junk mail.\r\n\r\nNobody reads a half page and goes, \"Man, I'm whacked!\"
    They just turn the page, without even knowing why.\r\n\r\nI think it would be
    next to impossible to pick one face as 'the least tiring'. But you could set some
    parameters that will tend to indicate if a font could be less tiring than some
    others. You could start with open shapes, large counters, Large(ish) x-height
    and tracking that isn't too tight and so on. In other words, almost any well designed
    typeface intended for imersive reading. \r\n\r\nNick, I was just involved in some
    'legibility' testing for a signage typeface with a well know Canadian institute
    for the blind, here in Toronto... (round 2, if Joe is reading. I forced a second
    round of testing after pointing out some serious flaws in the first round). The
    trouble with this sort of testing so far as I have seen (with the notable exception
    of ClearviewHWY) is that nobody doing the testing knows anything about typography
    (\"X-height is how big the letters are, right? - And kerning is how far apart
    the are, and serifs are...\" \"UH, yeahwhatever\") and the discount the skill
    of the designer, and then make ridiculous comparisons of completely dissimilar
    typefaces the basis of their experiments. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2007-10-06 00:50:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The ad was for Save The Children, and the black type \"raised twice as much
    money\", according to <em>Ogilvy on Advertising</em>. He wrote that book in 1983,
    retired in his chateau in France. \r\n\r\n\"If you start your body copy with a
    drop initial, you increase readership by 13%\"\r\n\"It is now known that widows
    (short lines) increase readership\".\r\n\"This is 11-point, and about right\"\r\n\r\n-more
    gems from Ogilvy, the result of readership surveys. Note that the term emphasizes
    the reader (albeit as a marketing demographic), whereas our \"readability\" focuses
    on the text.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-06 01:22:49'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I've read the book several times, but not lately. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2007-10-06 01:35:16'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...the[y] discount the skill of the designer, and then make ridiculous
    comparisons of completely dissimilar typefaces the basis of their experiments.\"\r\nNow
    now. The designer is unimportant to these readability or legibility issues. The
    issues are engineering problems, not design problems. \r\n\r\n\"...with the notable
    exception of ClearviewHWY...\"\r\nThough the face is a notable exception, the
    testing is hardly better than what anyone else with an agenda has done.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-10-06 12:40:52'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: That's interesting. I've read the Ogilvy twice -- once in the 90s and once
    this century -- and I'm still not clear in my own mind what I think of his conclusions.
  created: '2007-10-06 13:02:57'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Well, dberlow, - hardly better is still better, isn't it? :) \r\n\r\nnow,
    I'm off to re-read Mr. Ogilvy."
  created: '2007-10-07 02:38:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "In his own time, with his copy-heavy ads, Ogilvy was against the grain of
    the \"word+image=big idea\" school of advertising which won all the awards and
    made the history books. But he was very successful and not alone in his method.\r\n\r\nNowadays,
    would anyone dream of putting so much text in an ad? Very rarely, but that's not
    to say that text-centric marketing has vanished, as there is a whole genre of
    advertorial newsletters in print and online, and often the editorial in periodicals
    is thinly disguised advertising. Just look at the massive auto and real estate
    sections in daily newspapers, hardly objective journalism."
  created: '2007-10-07 03:33:02'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Berlow is quite wrong about that, in theory and in practice, but since he\u2019s
    been around forever the kids are likely to believe him. As are the managers, who
    cannot differentiate one font from another unless it\u2019s a true apples/oranges
    comparison (Univers vs. Arial, no; Times [\u201CNew\u201D] Roman vs. Comic Sans,
    yes). We\u2019re trying to get the discussion beyond \u201CLet\u2019s compare
    our new legibility font and Comic Sans\u201D to \u201CLet\u2019s compare our new
    legibility font against plausible alternatives.\u201D\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2007-10-08 20:05:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>plausible alternatives</em>\r\n\r\nPlausible? Well, that's the \"agenda\"
    of which David speaks.\r\n\r\nDifferent stakeholders have different notions of
    what is plausible, different agendas (quite often, hyping their new \"readability\"
    design).\r\nMe, I can't take the science seriously unless the starting point is
    testing the types that have become the norm -- and yes, that includes Adobe Garamond
    -- not because of prejudices that engineers, artists, designers, neurologists,
    typographers, capitalists, whoever, bring to the table about what is \"plausible\",
    but because those are the fonts that are used most. \r\n\r\n1. Test the most used
    fonts, both sans and serif\r\n2. Test them in different settings: vary line length,
    leading, size\r\n3. Test them against different demographic groups\r\n\r\nThat
    should keep someone busy for a while.\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-08 22:47:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"- hardly better is still better, isn\u2019t it? :)\"\r\n\r\nI s'pose. But
    in this case it's just a matter of using fewer words...when MS sets up tests,
    they use 100's sometimes 1000's of words. ClearView's testing is better \u2014
    \ as fewer words are used, less needs to be made up as a result.;) On the other
    hand, there is nothing wrong with the fonts in the Clearview case, just the spin
    is a little wobbly. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/12font190_5654.1.jpg]\r\nHighway
    Gothic was a quirky icon of the \"American Road\", but it had a unit system for
    an interface and billboard proportions for its letter drawing. Clearview, might
    be miles of bad kerning. Hap'nin aleady,  (in the hands of expert composers?)
    places like Hellertown and Bethlehem. Even though the old sign's been sprayed
    with acid for some number of years, the spacing is better for the task(s).  \r\n\r\nIn
    short, one must be very careful in accepting agate proportions in type without
    giving such type proper composition, something that's impossible to spread out
    over a million uses without a unit system and firm guidance, isn't it?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-10-08 23:18:43'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I confess, I've been kind of shocked at the shoddiness  of some 'science'
    I've seen in this area, so Id' have doubts in the results no matter how long the
    folk in lab coats were busy. \r\n\r\nI think that what should be possible is the
    definition of some basic parameters of what will work well under certain circumstances
    and what won't. Ultimately, the differences between two or more well designed
    typefaces used appropriately will be vanishingly small, and probably not worth
    the effort of testing. \r\n\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2007-10-08 23:45:35'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "David wrote:\r\n\"But in this case it\u2019s just a matter of using fewer
    words...when MS sets up tests, they use 100\u2019s sometimes 1000\u2019s of words.
    ClearView\u2019s testing is better \u2014 as fewer words are used\"\r\n\r\nThe
    Clearview testing used fewer words only because of the impracticality of creating
    dozens of signs. I prefer to counterbalance and use 20 or more words per condition
    (never thousands) to reduce word effects. The word <em>table</em> will always
    be recognized faster than the word <em>yacht</em> no matter what conditions I
    compare. Making similar word lists and showing different word lists to each reader
    reduces these kind of effects. Fewer words are not better."
  created: '2007-10-09 18:12:43'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Russellm wrote:\r\n\"I was just involved in some \u2019legibility\u2019 testing
    for a signage typeface with a well know Canadian institute for the blind, here
    in Toronto\"\r\n\r\nCould you tell us more about the mistakes they were making
    in round 1? There is an unfortunate lack of typographic knowledge among psychologists
    that needs to be corrected, but designing a good study can be difficult even with
    the help of typographic experts. I would be interested in hearing your thoughts
    about the best way to design this particular test.\r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin"
  created: '2007-10-09 18:20:33'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: ">Kevin wrote:\r\n\"could you tell us more...\"\r\nin an email. \r\nruss.mcg@gmail.com\r\n\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2007-10-10 01:54:18'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Kev: \"...Clearview testing used fewer words only because of the impracticality
    of creating dozens of signs.\"\r\nThey had better refine the definition of practical
    then, hu? \r\n\r\n\"Making similar word lists and showing different word lists
    to each reader reduces these kind of effects. Fewer words are not better.\" Make
    up your mind. \r\n\r\nI've made fonts for <em>Yachts</em> and <em>Tables</em>
    this month, so I'm aware of the need for design solutions to these problems of
    readability. It hardly matters. e.g. what one does or tests in this area if the
    problem is defined by the client as strictly an \"engineering problem\". Fortunately,
    I don't let clients stick to that broken philosophy for long, or they don't stay
    clients for long ;)\r\n\r\nRus: \" Ultimately, the differences between two or
    more well designed typefaces used appropriately will be vanishingly small, and
    probably not worth the effort of testing.\"\r\n\r\nI think what you mean to say
    is: the differences between two typefaces well designed for the same purpose and
    both used appropriately will be small, and not worth the effort of testing. That
    is not what we are looking at in Clearview though, where \"used appropriately\"
    is a huge issue, not so in the case of MS's tests which are laughably short of
    fonts  \"well designed for the same purpose...\"\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-10 13:25:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the differences between two typefaces well designed for the same purpose
    and both used appropriately will be small, and not worth the effort of testing.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    fact that testing will not pick up the difference doesn't say much about that
    difference.\r\nTwo performances of the same piece of music with all the notes
    played correctly, at the same tempo, yet one moves and the other bores. Isn't
    type like that? Isn't that why we agonize over different versions of Garamond,
    idolize Helvetica and scorn Arial?\r\nWhy do we bother if it amounts to nothing?
    Is out sophistication so extremely redundant?\r\n\r\nYou have to decide what quality
    of difference you're trying to discern before you can test it.\r\nAnd what if
    that concept only exists in the language of type so far, a pure visuality, not
    in words or numbers?\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-10 17:12:52'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: ">Nick, \r\n\r\nWell, yeah, of course... \r\n\r\nBut what if the question
    is only, \"which performance is louder?\"... That's my point. In the same analogy,
    two orchestras with the same number of horns, violins and kettle drums have the
    potential to be equally loud, but one orchestra could be the grade school orchestra
    I was in once upon a time and the other could be the Toronto Symphony Orchestra.
    Obviously equal only if you are very selective and not at all rational in how
    you evaluate them. One could just forget about legibility for a moment and take
    some time to think about the \"voice\" you want to communicate with. This is a
    concept that is quite foreign among people I've met who test fonts for legibility.
    \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2007-10-10 20:40:43'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "David wrote: \"Make up your mind.\" \r\n\r\nI'll try to be clearer. In the
    Clearview study they looked at 6 font conditions on 2 kinds of signage materials
    for a total of 12 conditions. They created a word list of 6 words and attempted
    to make the 6 words similar to each other. They created signs for each word they
    used for each condition - a total of 72 signs. Participants identified the same
    six words in each condition. I imagine that it's somewhat expensive to create
    each sign, and therefore impractical to create to use 20 words and 240 signs or
    20 different counterbalanced words in each condition for 2880 signs. Since my
    testing is either of computer type or printed on regular paper, it is not much
    more expensive to use 20 or more counterbalanced words per condition. \r\n\r\nThe
    advantage of using more words per condition is that it's possible to be more confident
    in your result when you find that words from one condition consistently perform
    better than words from another condition no matter what the word used. When cost
    is not a concern there is an advantage for using more words; it is not advantageous
    to use fewer words."
  created: '2007-10-11 07:05:56'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "Wow. Has this developed into an abstract discussion or what? After scanning
    this thread, it looks like no one recommended a font! (Sorry if I missed any.)
    The following (for print) are not my suggestions, but at least they name names.\r\n\r\nTo
    B&A's list I would add Stone's Cycles family; I'm using Cycles Eleven and am stunned
    by its legibility and readability. Also for print, Freight Text is a worthy contender.\r\n\r\n==========\r\n\r\nFrom
    Before and After Magazine, \u201CWhat\u2019s the right typeface for text\u201D,
    an excerpt from their book <em>Before and After Graphics for Business.</em>\r\n\r\nWhile
    many typefaces meet the requirements of legibility, readability, and beauty, the
    following four are the ones we reach for most often:\r\n\u2022Adobe Caslon (most
    readable typeface);\r\n\u2022Adobe Garamond (easy to read and elegant, too);\r\n\u2022Stone
    Serif (boring to look at but buttery to read);\r\n\u2022Janson Text (middle ground
    between the earthy, workmanlike nature of Caslon and the high classiness of Garamond.)"
  created: '2007-10-11 11:31:49'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Steve... this happens all the time on Typophile.\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2007-10-11 16:12:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "What's the most nutritious food?\r\nWhat's the most soothing music?\r\nWhat's
    the most comfortable shoe?\r\nWho's the sexiest actress (lab tests for that should
    be interesting).\r\nIs there a pattern here?\r\nMight it just be that there are
    no absolutes, and that people aren't all the same?\r\nResults may vary.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nFood.
    Hmmm. \r\nThe stuff people like is bad for them.\r\nSo, are the fonts we like
    bad for us?\r\nWhat ARE the \"side effects\" of Comic Sans?\r\nAnd more importantly:\r\nDo
    fonts that read like butter cause hardening of the lenses?\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-11 20:27:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Do fonts that read like butter cause hardening of the lenses?\r\n\r\nWhatever
    you do, when you turn 45 you get a card in the mail: \"Congratulations, welcome
    to middle age! As your first gift, you are awarded presbyopia for both eyes, fee
    of charge. More wonderful surprises to come!\" \r\n\r\nOr maybe that's just my
    memory playing tricks on me :) "
  created: '2007-10-11 22:51:30'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/readability_5654.png]\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2007-10-12 07:46:48'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "Whoops - I forgot x in my equation. Here's the real graph:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/readability_3890.png]\r\n\r\nSilly
    me. Without x, it doesn't even make sense!\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2007-10-12 16:41:51'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Kevlar: \"it is not advantageous to use fewer words.\" Ever? ;)\r\n\r\nRenMan:\"Has
    this developed into an abstract discussion or what?\"\r\nWhat, I think. ;)\r\n\r\n\"After
    scanning this thread, it looks like no one recommended a font!\"\r\nAnd it looks
    like, after your post, no one has yet. With the RFS we were given there is no
    answer. \r\nAll we can assume is that the script in this request is Latin. \r\n\r\n\"the
    following four are the ones we reach for most often\"\r\nWe being...?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-13 12:13:11'
date: '2007-06-09 09:56:35'
title: whats the less eye tiring font?

---
