---
author:
  name: speter
  picture: 110038
body: "A question to our Spanish language typographers: where vertically should exclamdown
  and questiondown (i.e., \xA1\xBF) be positioned? I've seen examples with the characters
  essentially on the baseline, and I've seen examples with the characters shifted
  down, though never as far as the level of decenders. "
comments:
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Hi there, Steve! \r\n\r\nThey should be placed shifted down, but not as far
    as the baseline. Some (most?) typefaces have them aligned at the ascender by default,
    which is also wrong. I can't post images just now, but I will try to do that tomorrow,
    if that helps and if you can wait that long."
  created: '2007-06-10 17:07:26'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: http://www.microsoft.com/typography/developers/fdsspec/punc.htm
  created: '2007-06-10 17:10:42'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "\xA1Hola, Ricardo!\r\n\r\nYes, images would be great! (No rush. I'm working
    on a typeface and wondered what to do when I was setting some sample text. Too
    far up, and they looked odd, and too far down, they looked odd in a different
    way.)"
  created: '2007-06-10 17:11:31'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Here's an <a href="http://static.flickr.com/72/166000678_6b997c7607_o.gif">online
    example</a>... You'll notice that the opening exclamdown is lined up at the x-height.
  created: '2007-06-10 17:12:51'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "Thanks, Paul!  Very interesting...\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-10 17:15:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Two less-obvious things to consider here:\r\n1) The inverted symbols are
    usually followed by a cap.\r\n2) Mind the confusion with the \"i\"!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-10 17:17:49'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i think most current typefaces use the x-height alignment as a default and
    have another case sensitive version for all-caps settings which sits on the baseline.
  created: '2007-06-10 17:40:26'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "R.C. -- <cite>Some (most?) typefaces have them aligned at the ascender by
    default, which is also wrong.</cite>\r\n\r\nH.P. -- <cite>1) The inverted symbols
    are usually followed by a cap.</cite>\r\n\r\nHello Mr Cordoba, <cite>how</cite>
    wrong is this? I made the same observation as Mr Papazian, and for this reason
    -- deliberately -- chose the position between baseline and H-height. Another issue
    is that an x-height-aligned questiondown may require quite a few kerning pairs.\r\nBut
    seeing '\xA1Hola, Ricardo!' above (exclamdown aligned with uppercase), I could
    as well argue that descending exclamdown and questiondown are easier to recognize.
    Hm."
  created: '2007-06-10 21:53:16'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Like all things in type the details of the face ( style, weight, serifs etc.),
    and your intent will come into the equations as well. The shape of the Question
    mark & Exclam are important too. \r\n\r\nNot that it is important, I tend to like
    the feeling of x-height ish alignment better. But I don't read it very much so
    my opinion is only worth just so much. Some ideas about why I feel that ways include:
    \r\n\r\n- It might be that lowering the mark before a capital let's me see the
    the next letter faster/easier. eg - the mark gets in the way of my reading less.
    (If true this would be a good reason or an endorsement )\r\n\r\n- It might be
    that a lowered x-height ish alignment has a better 'cue value'. Or put another
    way it may be that I can recognise the \xA1 or \xBF faster when they take that
    alignment.  (If true this would be a good reason or an endorsement )\r\n\r\n-
    It feels more even more 'different' than an H height alignment & I like the exotic
    quality ( not an endoresement or a negative ) \r\n\r\nNone of this is more important
    than using your own Eyes. Find what works best for the face & the reader. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-10 22:26:03'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Eben, I was just saying the way it is. This is what I was taught whenever
    I had Argentine schooling, and what I see in most of the books I have in Spanish,
    if they are set in Spanish-speaking countries.\r\n\r\n<em>The inverted symbols
    are usually followed by a cap.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, if they are at the beginning
    of a sentence, yes, they would be followed by a cap. But a question or exclamation
    can begin mid-sentence, thus:\r\n\r\n<strong>Hrant, \xBFqu\xE9 opinas de esta
    fuente?</strong>\r\n\r\n<strong>Hace calor, \xA1quiero un helado!</strong>\r\n\r\nThese
    upside down symbols act as visual cues, to let a reader know when to change intonation,
    much as the accents (or tildes, as they are known in Espa\xF1ol), let you know
    where the stress falls in a word -- but that is a whole 'nother subject.  :-)"
  created: '2007-06-11 04:57:53'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Hello Mr Cordoba,</em> how <em>wrong is this?</em>\r\n\r\nWell, I just
    read the Microsoft guidelines that Paul posted, and I didn't know about the display
    setting... I don't have too many examples of that with me, but I did find one,
    and sure enough, the upside down exclamation point is aligned with the rest of
    the caps... I'll try to scan this and some text face examples tomorrow, and post
    them here.\r\n\r\n<em>Another issue is that an x-height-aligned questiondown may
    require quite a few kerning pairs.</em>\r\n\r\nHey, that's our job as type designers
    anyway. Most punctuation needs to be kerned. Quotation marks can be annoying,
    but you don't go around changing their vertical position to make them easier to
    kern... right?   ;-)"
  created: '2007-06-11 05:17:42'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Here's another online example. <a href="http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/ert/malena/bold/"
    target="_blank">Malena</a>, a typeface designed by Felix Lentino, a typography
    prof at the University of Buenos Aires.
  created: '2007-06-11 05:30:10'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Thank you!\r\n\r\nR.C. -- <cite>Hey, that\u2019s our job as type designers
    anyway. Most punctuation needs to be kerned.</cite>\r\n\r\nDefinitely. Yet one
    cannot kern <cite>everything</cite>, I mean, even in high-quality typefaces I
    find combinations which slipped attention but may occur in this or that language.
    So if adjusting shapes helps avoid necessity of kerning in the first place, great.\r\n\r\nE.S.
    -- <cite>None of this is more important than using your own Eyes. Find what works
    best for the face & the reader.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe latter in particular, since
    I do not read Spanish! It would be interesting to hear many opinions of Spanish
    speaking collegues.\r\nJust like in previous discussions (would Americans accept
    guillemets? what about spaced punctuation marks?), I am interested in finding
    out whether something is de facto convention, or readers do not really care but
    typographers are taught or teach so, or is propagated by specific typographic
    'schools', or is the opinion of individuals."
  created: '2007-06-11 08:21:15'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "<cite>It would be interesting to hear many opinions of Spanish speaking collegues.</cite>\r\n\r\nKarsten,
    that's exactly what I want. I've been looking at as many Spanish-language sources
    as I can for actual use, but the reasoned opinions of a few real Spanish-language
    typographer would be very valuable.\r\n\r\n<cite>would Americans accept guillemets?
    what about spaced punctuation marks?</cite>\r\n\r\nYes to the first, no to the
    second (meiner Meinung nach). "
  created: '2007-06-11 09:12:37'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Definitely. Yet one cannot kern</em> everything<em>, I mean, even in
    high-quality typefaces I find combinations which slipped attention but may occur
    in this or that language.</em>\r\n\r\nKarsten, I agree. And one cannot anticipate
    every situation, especially in languages one does not know! (If I remember correctly,
    <em>The Elements of Typographic Style</em> is a good resource, as it gives examples
    of frequently occurring letters or combinations for several languages.) And then
    once the typeface is out there, different typesetters will have their own kerning
    preferences... (And I just saw your e-mail, which I'll reply to!)\r\n\r\n<em>I
    am interested in finding out whether something is de facto convention, or readers
    do not really care but typographers are taught or teach so, or is propagated by
    specific typographic \u2018schools\u2019, or is the opinion of individuals.</em>\r\n\r\nAll
    good questions, sir!\r\n\r\n<em>...but the reasoned opinions of a few real Spanish-language
    typographer would be very valuable.</em>\r\n\r\nPaging Ale Paul... Eduardo Manso...
    Miguel Hern\xE1ndez... etc.\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2007-06-11 15:33:10'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "OK, Steve, here are some scanned examples from Spanish-speaking countries.
    I'll start with text faces and then move on to display faces...\r\n\r\nThese first
    two images are from the novel <em>Puras mentiras</em>, by Juan Forn, an Argentine
    writer, and published by Alfaguara in 2001 -- presumably this book was typeset
    in Argentina (sorry, the colophon is rather skimpy on details). Here the exclamdown
    and questiondown line up at the x-height.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/text_01_5237.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/text_02_4360.jpg]"
  created: '2007-06-12 03:11:35'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "These next two examples are from the book <em>Del Dise\xF1o</em>, by Yves
    Zimmermann, a graphic designer from Barcelona. This volume was published by Editorial
    Gustavo Gili, of Spain, in 1998. (Again, there is no colophon explaining who did
    the typesetting or which faces were used -- usually, books published in Spanish-speaking
    countries simply have a note at the end stating the printer's name, how many copies
    were printed, and the date. Sometimes the designer of the cover will be mentioned
    on the copyrights page.)\r\n\r\nAnyway, these examples are interesting because
    one uses small caps, but the questiondown still lines up with the small caps rather
    than the initial cap; the second example shows the questiondown following a colon
    -- and still lining up with the x-height.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/text_03_5155.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/text_04_4362.jpg]"
  created: '2007-06-12 03:26:06'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Oops, it's rather late -- I'll post the display face examples tomorrow.
  created: '2007-06-12 03:31:10'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "Very nice examples. I've been looking at all the Spanish-language editions
    on newseum every day*, and I think there's a definite preference for x-height
    alignment. Nearly all the uses I've seen there (admitedly <em>very</em> unscientific
    methodology) have caps-height alignment only in ads (which seems to me to connote
    shouting). \r\n\r\n(<em>Del Dise\xF1o</em> looks like it could have used better
    typography: there's no fi-ligature in <em>manifiesta</em>, and those small caps
    look faked!)\r\n\r\n*Why this question has to obsess me when I am in Moscow, rather
    than when I'm back in New Jersey is beyond me..."
  created: '2007-06-12 08:34:26'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I think the design of an individual typeface cannot be completely hostage
    to convention / tradition any more than it can afford to ignore them. Sometimes
    it's a great idea to break a rule. Not often. The only way to know is to look;
    and then weigh the consequences for yourself.\r\n\r\nSo it could be that those
    with the H height are being somehow culturally insensitive or something but  -
    I can't quite sign up for that because I am not utterly sold on the idea that
    there is a 'convention' yet. Partly I get this from looking around the font universe.
    \r\n\r\nLooking at News Gothic the Bitstream version uses the H height. The Linotype
    NewsGothic uses the x. These seem to be true house-wide ( mostly ). Freight uses
    the H. Bello, & Feijoa the x. Tiptoe & Omnes the H. Amalia, & Fedra the x. Parry
    & Sansa Slab the H. Candy Script ( and all of Ale Paul's others) use the x more
    or less. Eduardo's fonts ( emtype ) all seem to use the x.\r\n\r\nIt also seems
    to me that the heavier the face is, and the more geared to display work the face
    is, the more an H height alignment seems reasonable. The spirit of the type might
    suggest what is right too. A slab Egyptian or a modernist face 's 'raison d'\xEAtre'
    might be most compatible with an H height aligned '\xBF'.  \r\n\r\nStill, Ricardo,
    thanks for posting the link to Malena. And your example is exactly the kind of
    thing that looks pleasant/natural to my foreign eyes; naive as they are.\r\n\r\nI
    also agree that hearing from further from Ricardo, Ale Paul, Eduardo Manso, &
    Miguel Hern\xE1ndez would be far more useful than the meagre theory & observations
    I have offered.\r\n\r\nStill, since that's all I have I will go on a little further.
    \r\n\r\nIt seems to me that the design of the \xA1 \xBF ? & ! probably aught to
    be done differently if you intend a heavy Spanish/Catalan use. In addition to
    certain alignments being easier to kern for; or looking better; ( or insert your
    concern here )- certain forms probably work better when they are spun around than
    others. Maybe softer hooks?  Does anybody create a different shape for their '\xBF'
    vs. '?' ? It seems like that might be a very good idea as well. I should check
    to see  if that is already being done actually... Maybe these are silly ideas.
    What do you all think? Any examples?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-12 11:04:08'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Both of Ricardo's examples are set in Adobe Garamond, so they don't provide
    much variety of evidence. I would guess that, in these cases, the position of
    the questiondown is more a matter of the typeface/font design, than any typesetting
    convention. Presumably, however, Adobe and Slimbach did some surveying and gave
    some consideration to the standards that they've adopted for their Originals series.
    And, presumably, the designers of these books gave some consideration to what
    the questiondown looked like before settling on Adobe Garamond. (Or not.)\r\n\r\nWhat
    these examples do show is that the x-aligned questiondown does not violate any
    general cultural acceptance. \r\n\r\nThe best perspective, however, will still
    be provided by a native Spanish-speaking typographer or type designer who is steeped
    in his/her own tradition.\r\n\r\nI would hypothesize that historically (meaning
    handset metal) the questiondown was originally just an inverted question mark,
    and so it's position relative to the baseline would depend upon the proportions
    of the font at hand. (Similarly, the earliest opening quote was an inverted comma,
    and so the alignment of opening quotation marks sometimes varied from that of
    closing quotes/apostrophes.)\r\n\r\nRelatively longer descenders (like in a Garamond)
    would yield a top alignment closer to the x-height. Relatively shorter descenders
    would yield a questiondown that aligns higher. \r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-12 14:12:47'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Nice points about proportion Ken!
  created: '2007-06-12 21:01:23'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Eben and Kent, thanks so much for your thoughtful and articulate observations!\r\n\r\nEben
    said... <em>I am not utterly sold on the idea that there is a \u2018convention\u2019
    yet...</em>\r\n\r\nKent said... <em>What these examples do show is that the x-aligned
    questiondown does not violate any general cultural acceptance.</em>\r\n\r\nI need
    to expand a little on my earlier comments... I had some schooling in Argentina
    and some in the States... It is in Argentine grade schools that I was taught to
    vertically dip the upside-down exclamation point and question mark in my handwriting...
    After a while it becomes second nature and you don't even think about it. Of course
    handwriting is not the same as typography, but they are closely related, no?  :-)\r\n\r\n<em>Both
    of Ricardo\u2019s examples are set in Adobe Garamond, so they don\u2019t provide
    much variety of evidence.</em>\r\n\r\nThanks for catching that, Kent! As tired
    as I was two nights ago, picking out books, and as tired as I was last night,
    scanning and posting examples, I can't believe I didn't even notice that either
    of them were set in Garamond to begin with! \r\n\r\nNow, I don't have that many
    books in Spanish with me right now; I left a lot of them in Buenos Aires when
    I moved to New York. But even if I had them all here, I suspect that a lot of
    the fiction titles would also be set in Garamond... While I was working in Buenos
    Aires during the 90s, there was a pretty big economic recession in progress, and
    I know that most book publishers could not afford to spend a lot of money on cover
    design and illustration... I doubt that they would have been able to invest in
    many typefaces, either... (I could be very wrong about this, though. It would
    be good to hear from some other Argentine designers, to see what they say.)\r\n\r\nKent
    also said... <em>I would guess that, in these cases, the position of the questiondown
    is more a matter of the typeface/font design, than any typesetting convention...</em>
    and <em>...presumably, the designers of these books gave some consideration to
    what the questiondown looked like before settling on Adobe Garamond. (Or not.)</em>\r\n\r\nVery
    nicely put -- maybe they did, maybe they didn't.\r\n\r\nI'll be posting some display
    face examples next, and they may just add to the confusion!"
  created: '2007-06-13 01:56:24'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Here are a couple of scans from the book <em>\xA1Yo no fui!</em>, by Argentine
    cartoonist Quino (first published by Ediciones de la Flor in 1994; layout and
    cover by Pablo Barrag\xE1n).\r\n\r\nIn the first image, from the cover, the exclam-down
    lines up with the caps... is it the typeface or the typesetter?\r\n\r\nAnd the
    second image is from one of Quino's cartoons... I decided to post it in light
    of some of the topics coming up in this thread. I know that Quino studied architecture
    at university, and that he is oh-so-meticulous in his drawings... If you look
    at the bottom lefthand drawing, the two exclamatory sentences in a row provide
    another good reason to dip the exclam-down. Also notice how Quino makes his exclamation
    points slightly diagonal, to either give emphasis or to keep the exclam-down from
    looking like a lowercase i...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/display_01_6163.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/quino_hand_01_6198.gif]\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-13 03:33:22'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I really enjoyed looking at these. If nobody shows up I may send the URL around
    to see if we can get additional participation. Maybe Carl Crossgrove can comment
    about whether there is an in house standard at Mono/Lino as well. :-)
  created: '2007-06-13 03:54:34'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Here are three examples from a children's magazine, Billiken -- I briefly
    (very briefly!) worked there as a layout artist in 1992, and this was before they
    switched over to Macintosh production of the mechanicals. So they had typesetters
    doing phototypesetting in another part of the building.\r\n\r\nIn the first sample
    we have an all-caps Futura headline in which the exclam-down is slightly shifted
    below the baseline... wheras in the U&lc sentence within the yellow word balloon,
    we again have Futura, but the exclam-down is aligned at the x-height.\r\n\r\nIn
    the second example the exclam-downs are lined up with the caps in an all-caps
    subhead, but in the third example the exclam-down is once again shifted slighty
    down, in spite of the all-caps headline...\r\n\r\nMy only guess is that in this
    case, in which all of the magazine's headlines were set in Futura, the variations
    in the vertical position of the exclam-down and question-down depended on the
    knowledge/care/obsessiveness of each individual typesetter at the plant... I never
    got to meet any of them, so I really don't know. But Kent's earlier observation
    certainly seems to apply here.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/display_02_4777.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/display_03_4818.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/display_04_3734.jpg]\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-13 03:59:20'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>If nobody shows up I may send the URL around to see if we can get additional
    participation.</em>\r\n\r\nEben, I can e-mail Eduardo Manso, and also Armin Vit
    -- I forgot to mention him earlier, and he is a frequenter of this forum."
  created: '2007-06-13 04:02:22'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: The impression I get from emailing with Carl is that x height alignment is
    generally the trend at Monotype - existing designs excepted. Except in the case
    of all caps. They get Cap Height Aligned - Thanks Carl!
  created: '2007-06-13 18:57:09'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Hey, that's good to know -- so at least two big companies use the same standards.
    Thanks Eben and Carl!
  created: '2007-06-13 19:04:31'
- author:
    name: Miguel Hernandez
    picture: 110435
  body: "The dots hav eto be positioned on the top & on the bottom of the x height.
    A question in language have emphasis on the beginning and on the end on the question
    when is spoken, in english only at the end.\r\n\r\n\r\nMiguel Hern\xE1ndez\r\n\r\nLatinotype.
    The latin alphabet, on latino hands.\r\nhttp://www.latinotype.com/view_fonts.html"
  created: '2007-06-14 00:12:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>one uses small caps, but the questiondown still lines up with the small
    caps rather than the initial cap</em>\r\n\r\nThat's because the small caps are
    faux.\r\n\r\nHere's the breakdown:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Diseno_6156.jpg]\r\n\r\n1.
    Caps with small caps - wrong\r\n2. Caps with small caps - correct\r\n3. Caps with
    small caps - wrong\r\n4. All small caps - correct\r\n5. All caps - correct\r\n\r\nAdobe
    Garamond Pro gives you (1) with both small caps, and all small caps settings.\r\n\r\nAm
    I right about (2) Miguel -- or is (3) preferred? And if so, presumably because
    of the tails to cap Q and J?"
  created: '2007-06-14 03:30:53'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Nick, I would say that in example (3), i.e., almost the same as the way the
    sentence appears in the book, the question marks are more easily seen by a reader
    than in example 4... The opening question mark in (4) is like a little squiggle,
    not a real question mark.
  created: '2007-06-14 04:22:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't think the opening and closing marks need to be forced to be the same.
    Especially in a longer phrase I can picture a tall/high one to open and a \"regular\"
    one to close.\r\n\r\n> presumably because of the tails to cap Q and J?\r\n\r\nIndeed,
    this should be part of the -preferably dynamic/contextual-\r\ndetermination of
    what kind of opening question mark looks best.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-14 04:43:40'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Not a bad idea... And with OpenType it is actually possible to do.
  created: '2007-06-14 06:00:17'
- author:
    name: Miguel Hernandez
    picture: 110435
  body: "I am with number 3 Nick.\r\n\r\n\r\nMiguel Hern\xE1ndez\r\n\r\nLatinotype.
    The latin alphabet, on latino hands.\r\nhttp://www.latinotype.com/view_fonts.html"
  created: '2007-06-14 10:48:36'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "These are very nice and instructive examples! I find the comic lettering
    particularly striking because it uses lowered exclamdowns despite the text is
    in all caps, and because handwritten, it shows that the positioning was chosen
    <cite>intentionally</cite>. In contrast, as Kent Lew says, it is not clear whether
    typographers decided for this or that positioning intentionally or just relied
    on the font's default.\r\n\r\nOut of interest, since we touched kerning earlier:
    Are no quotation marks used in Spanish, so quotation mark to exclamdown/questiondown
    would be an unlikely combination?\r\n\r\nI am most deligthed about the little
    spaces after \xA1 and before ! in the title <cite>\xA1YO NO FUI!</cite>"
  created: '2007-06-14 11:29:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>it uses lowered exclamdowns despite the text is in all caps,</em>\r\n\r\nLowered
    relative to what?! -- relative to the capitals that immediately follow, yes, but
    in relaton to the text as a whole, which wanders considerably from the baseline,
    no -- and that is logical, when one considers that the exclam down always prefigures
    by the final exclamup, and in so doing establishes a relationship with every character
    in the journey to the end of the sentence, and must harmonize with them all. \r\n\r\n<em>the
    little spaces after \xA1 and before ! </em>\r\n\r\nThe exclams' spacing too should
    be contextual -- needed for an all-cap setting, and more so for sans than serif.
    Memo to OT developers: alternate exclam glyphs for \"case\" feature should have
    wider sidebearing.\r\n\r\n\r\nHere's a typeface where there are no descenders
    in caps or small caps (notably, the Q and J).\r\nIs option (3) still preferable
    to option (2)?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/diseno2_4719.jpg]"
  created: '2007-06-14 19:22:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> establishes a relationship with every character in the journey\r\n\r\nHmmm,
    very lyrical, but not exactly how people read.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-14 19:24:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>not exactly how people read</em>\r\n\r\nNo, but people also \"read\"
    the typography as a whole, and are aware of deviations and consistencies in the
    overall matrix. After all, it's against this background understanding of the implicit
    \ \"big\" grammatical structure -- which can extend to long sentences with many
    subordinate clauses -- that punctuation marks and page layouts have meaning. Emphases
    (parentheses, italics, bold) must also be read in this way, with a remembrance/anticipation
    of text outside immediate focus and attention."
  created: '2007-06-14 19:34:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> are aware of deviations and consistencies in the overall matrix.\r\n\r\nNot
    really.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-14 22:45:21'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Nick, thanks for expanding the Small Caps issue. You are right - it's more
    complicated.\r\n\r\nKarsten said <cite> it shows that the positioning was chosen
    intentionally</cite> I feel slightly uneasy cleanly extrapolating from handmade
    comic lettering to text or even to display in type. That said, I think there is
    plenty to learn from handmade comic lettering, not least in this case. So I agree
    - mostly.\r\n\r\nMiguel, thanks for checking in! \r\n\r\nThe thing that strikes
    me most about 1-5 is that it looks to my eye like it would be possible to design
    agreeable versions of both Cap aligned & x aligned question & exam marks. If I
    have time I will try to show what I mean. \r\n\r\n<cite>The exclams\u2019 spacing
    too should be contextual</cite>  Of course I think it should all be contextual....
    but that's a side issue.\r\n\r\nEven though this thread has been interesting,
    I don't think my mind has been changed - just shifted. It seems valid to me to
    do either thing, but in general and for text especially I will favor Richard &
    Miguel's preference. As far as Nicks CAP examples. I think 3,4& 5 all look okay
    to me. 1 & 2 do not. But As I said, I think that's a function of the design of
    the faces used nearly as much as it is a function of what tends to look/feel best.
    \r\n\r\nThe \xA1YO NO FUI! example is nice because It's a great example of where
    a Modern sensibility seems to be better served or at least is more consistent
    with the H align model."
  created: '2007-06-15 00:01:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> are aware of deviations and consistencies in the overall matrix.\r\nNot
    really.</em>\r\n\r\nI've occasionally had the experience where the first first
    thing I notice about a page of type--the instant I look at it--is a typo. (or
    an f-i that isn't ligatured, or a straight quote mark). I wonder if other people
    have had the same experience.\r\n\r\nHow would you explain that?"
  created: '2007-06-15 01:03:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You're a type freak, not a target user.\r\n\r\nI myself \"notice\" that lc
    \"a\"s are \"backwards\". But I do nothing about it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-15 01:23:07'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>The \xA1YO NO FUI! example is nice because It\u2019s a great example
    of where a Modern sensibility seems to be better served or at least is more consistent
    with the H align model.</em>\r\n\r\nWanna hear something funny? Yesterday I was
    examining that book more closely, and on the spine the title is set in a different
    typeface, with a lowered exclamdown character! Talk about inconsistencies.  :-)\r\n\r\nI'll
    try to post a scan of it later.\r\n\r\nAlso, I am going to e-mail some colleagues
    in Argentina (two of them typography profs at the University of Buenos Aires),
    to see what they have to say about some of the questions that have come up in
    this thread."
  created: '2007-06-15 15:59:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>You\u2019re a type freak, not a target user.</em>\r\n\r\nSure, spotting
    typos is learned, but so are such simple activities as picking berries or lice
    eggs.\r\n\r\nNot every text is as simple as a book page. Legal and government
    documents with their hierarchy of numbered paragraphs and sub-sections (and the
    Bible) are texts where page-context is important in reading. I'm guessing that
    not all saccadic scans follow the bouncing ball, and a brief internet search of
    scientific literature reveals that the \"foraging\" nature of saccadic eye movements
    has been documented.\r\n\r\nThe presence of an opening question/exclamation mark
    in some languages and not others suggests the complexity of the issue. How is
    it that English readers are able to start reading a long question with the final
    mark well in the distance? Are there sufficient grammatical cues in the opening
    words, or do we \"catch\" the question mark in \"the corner of the eye\" in a
    foraging saccade?"
  created: '2007-06-15 16:32:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> not all saccadic scans follow the bouncing ball\r\n\r\nBut the ones that
    don't are not immersive.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand I'm certainly not saying all\r\nopening
    exclamation/question schemes need\r\nto cater to immersive reading. Just that
    the\r\ndistinction has to be made.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-15 17:04:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>But the ones that don\u2019t are not immersive.</em>\r\n\r\nIs immersion
    therefore primarily interpretive?\r\nI'm imagining a concept rather like a \"magnetic\"
    Flash interaction, where the reader attempts to direct a concentrated flow of
    saccadic movements towards the next word, but foraging saccades are always bouncing
    off all over the place retrieving information that's mostly irrelevant, but nonetheless
    has to be processed in the feedback loop."
  created: '2007-06-15 17:49:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Is immersion therefore primarily interpretive?\r\n\r\nI'm not sure what
    you mean.\r\nWhat I'm getting at is that during immersion we don't care much\r\nabout
    consistency of alignment and other such conscious frills.\r\n\r\n> foraging saccades\r\n\r\nErrant
    saccades break immersion.\r\n\r\nA good example here is when you start to read
    a question but only realize it's a question when you see the mark at the end,
    often resulting in a regression just to revisit what's been previously read. This
    is in fact why opening question marks are so useful. I wouldn't mind seeing them
    ported over to English! Or even better, do what Armenian does: allow question
    marks directly on the vowel(s) in question, so to speak.  :-)\r\n\r\nOn the other
    hand, a reader can -and does- go in and out of immersion,\r\nso there certainly
    can/should not be such a thing as a \"pure\" text face.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-15 18:08:59'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"How is it that English readers are able to start reading a long question
    with the final mark well in the distance?\"\r\n\r\nLook at your own sentence.
    Spanish structure is less explicit and benefits from leading punctuation. English
    tends to put big honking clues at the beginning of sentences that are questions.
    Generally in English you invert the order of the statement and that signals a
    question. Spanish, not as much. "
  created: '2007-06-15 18:53:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> English tends to put big honking clues at\r\n> the beginning of sentences
    that are questions.\r\n\r\nTends to.\r\n\r\nAnd then there's bad English, which
    we still have to read and absorb!\r\n\"I asked Maria you wanted tuna or turkey
    sandwich?\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-15 19:22:50'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Generally in English you invert the order of the statement and that signals
    a question. Spanish, not as much.</em>\r\n\r\nAbsolutely:\r\n\r\n<strong>Maria
    started to write. = Mar\xEDa empez\xF3 a escribir.</strong>\r\n\r\n<strong>Did
    Maria start to write? = \xBFMar\xEDa empez\xF3 a escribir?</strong>"
  created: '2007-06-16 07:24:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Spanglish: Maria started to write? \xA1\xBFWhy she do that?!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-16 15:35:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "You think that's funny?\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nPerhaps it's sort of an institutionalized
    elision.\r\nI don't know Spanish, but in French many questions begin with \"Est-ce
    que...\" --Is it (true) that...\r\nAnd in English: (Do) you think that's funny?"
  created: '2007-06-16 18:56:25'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "it's interesting that \r\n\r\n1) Do you think that's funny?\r\nand\r\n2)
    You think that's funny?\r\n\r\nhave different implications. the first asking WHETHER
    you think it is funny, and the second asking whether YOU think that is funny."
  created: '2007-06-16 19:22:50'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I expect someone with a more profound education may be able to tie this up
    in knots but I'll put it out there just the same - I might learn something.\r\n\r\nI
    was thinking about what Hrant said about putting the ? mark at the beginning of
    a sentence in English. I think that while it's obvious it isn't likely to happen
    any time soon - it's an interesting question anyway. But I don't agree with his
    idea that it would be a good plan. Discovering that a sentence is a question,
    or guessing based on the structure is a deep part of English. It seems like an
    essential aspect of the language to me. \r\n\r\nEnglish is really flexible, and
    keeps changing so 'why object?' you might ask. But the flexibility is mostly in
    vocabulary I think. Which is why English has an unusual number of words. The grammar
    sticks around. No? And Unlike using <<>> (or >><<) vs \"\" ; the use of \xBF at
    the beginning of a sentence changes the 'way' it means what it means by changing
    the process you use to get there.\r\n\r\nI would be interested what readers of
    Spanish think of this idea. Does it feel different to find a question in English
    Vs. Spanish?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-17 08:36:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it isn\u2019t likely to happen any time soon\r\n\r\nI just did it yesterday.\r\nPersonally
    I'm not interested in \"official standards\"*, I'm interested in\r\ninstances.
    You think it's a good idea, you do it. The rest is history, or not.\r\n\r\n* Because
    since we're not living under a monarchy I don't expect\r\nquick, effective improvements
    to something as common as language.\r\n\r\n> It seems like an essential aspect
    of the language to me.\r\n\r\nNah, it's just a limitation of the writing system,
    and one of the easiest to fix.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-17 14:22:39'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>I would be interested what readers of Spanish think of this idea. Does
    it feel different to find a question in English Vs. Spanish?</em>\r\n\r\n\xBFWould
    it feel weird to me to see an opening question mark in an English sentence? \xA1Yep,
    it sure would!  ;-)\r\n\r\nJust as weird as coming upon written Spanish questions
    or exclamations that are missing these opening characters... (Full disclosure:
    I grew up bilingual.) But I see this a lot in e-mails and on websites -- not every
    Spanish-speaking person bothers to place all of the accents on the vowels that
    need them, for that matter, or to even draw the tilde on top of the <strong>\xF1</strong>,
    even when they know that <strong>a\xF1o</strong> does not mean the same as <strong>ano</strong>...
    \ ;-)  I've seen examples of people deliberately spelling <strong>a\xF1o</strong>
    as <strong>anio</strong>, because they don't know the keyboard shortcut for the
    <strong>\xF1</strong> (whether on Mac or on Windows)."
  created: '2007-06-20 06:05:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I\u2019ve seen examples of people deliberately spelling a\xF1o as anio\r\n\r\nWell,
    it does save the city money.  :-/\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/canyada_6172.jpg]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-20 06:14:30'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Anyways, I still think Mr. Crossgrove has said it best so far: <em>Spanish
    structure is less explicit and benefits from leading punctuation. English tends
    to put big honking clues at the beginning of sentences that are questions. Generally
    in English you invert the order of the statement and that signals a question.</em>\r\n\r\nSo
    for English, it doesn't really seem like a limitation of the writing system if
    said writing system doesn't need it. If English sentence structure needed something
    like opening question marks and exclamation points in writing, then they would
    have been invented at some point, \xBFno?  :-)"
  created: '2007-06-20 06:15:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> if said writing system doesn\u2019t need it.\r\n\r\nIt needs it less. But
    it still needs it.\r\n\r\n> If English sentence structure needed something like
    opening\r\n> question marks and exclamation points in writing, then they\r\n>
    would have been invented at some point, \xBFno?\r\n\r\nNo.\r\nThe establishment,
    in any given field, is always fighting change,\r\neven if the benefit to most
    people is clear. Because people tend to\r\ncare about themselves, about their
    own comfort, more than the\r\ndevelopment/integrity of what are essentially abstractions.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-20 06:21:40'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Similar online discussion... <a href=\"http://forum.wordreference.com/showthread.php?t=289913\"><em>\xA1aqu\xED!</em></a>
    Also, a <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inverted_question_mark_and_exclamation_point_in_Spanish\">Wikipedia
    article</a> on the inverted question mark. Plus... an article at <a href=\"http://www.straightdope.com/mailbag/mquestionmark.htm\">The
    Straight Dope</a> talks about the origins of the question mark."
  created: '2007-06-20 06:29:41'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: LOL! Hrant, that picture of the Alta Canyada sign is great!
  created: '2007-06-20 06:38:16'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: '...but that <strong>y</strong> looks thicker than the rest of the letters.  :-D'
  created: '2007-06-20 06:41:47'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "I'd rather see Canyada than simply Canada, with the accent missing. \r\n\r\nAnd
    then there\u2019s bad English, which we still have to read and absorb!\r\n\u201CI
    asked Maria you wanted tuna or turkey sandwich?\u201D\r\n\r\nThat sounds like
    speech to me, not writing; I'd expect the writing of the same speaker to be atrocious
    in a different way, or possibly better than his/her speech, but not the same.
    I've seen a lot of examples of this. Some very eloquent people write like children
    and vice versa. \r\n\r\nDo I care\r\nI do care\r\n\r\nAdding punctuation before
    English sentences doesn't read as improvement to me. If illiteracy has penetrated
    to that level, then we don't need \"improvement\" so much as remediation. "
  created: '2007-06-20 17:52:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What about with a macron?  :-/\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/canada-macron_6016.jpg]\r\n\r\n>
    That sounds like speech to me, not writing\r\n\r\nYes, books are expressly forbidden
    from including dialog.\r\nEver heard of \"The Color Purple\"? Improper English
    can be quite effective.\r\n\r\n> If illiteracy has penetrated to that level, then
    we\r\n> don\u2019t need \u201Cimprovement\u201D so much as remediation.\r\n\r\nBut
    that's a different sphere of action.\r\nAnd think for example of a book that tries
    to\r\nremediate poor English through examples.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-20 18:03:05'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Good writers construct their dialog to be understood well as vernacular speech.
    Typically, written expressions of this kind are not made to be confusing in the
    way you are talking about. The example you gave is confusing out of context, but
    in the body of a story (like the Color Purple) it wouldn''t be. So what''s your
    point? Non-snotty replies please. Don''t forget the kind of vernacular remarks
    I''ve posted in the past. '
  created: '2007-06-20 18:11:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't understand your resistance here. English sentences can sometimes
    not be discernible as questions until you get to the end. And this is not confined
    to mangled English (as if most English is squeaky clean). In these cases an opening
    question mark helps. Finis.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-20 18:17:05'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Is the need so great that the language suffers, given the conventions of
    reading and writing that English speakers maintain? Is this a major flaw in English
    that requires repair, or is it just something you'd enjoy seeing? Remember, your
    POV is not average. I'm still not seeing English as so broken that this would
    magically help a lot. I think basic illiteracy is much larger than this. \r\n\r\nDid
    you have trouble understanding those last sentences? This one? \r\n\r\nYou tend
    to be on the constant lookout for ways to reform language and writing, and you
    must realize it's not my opinion or conservatism that's in your way, it's the
    collective momentum/weight of some long-evolved systems that have been adapted
    by millions of people to be very, very flexible and expressive. If something needs
    to be added to English, it probably will catch fire. Have a ball, use punctuation
    at the beginning of sentences. But it's not 'finis' until the language reform
    has been adopted; I'm not holding my breath. "
  created: '2007-06-20 18:39:30'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "So Hrant, your argument to us is that it is a purely functional benefit.
    \r\n\r\nMaaaaybe. But consider this counter argument: Culture. \r\n\r\nBefore
    you convict me of being a poet or something; [ <Cite>heaven forfend! ;-) </cite>
    ] consider Japanese. In Japanese they have a less precise way of describing most
    things. A lot of context is needed to successfully 'get' what going on both in
    written form & speech. It's not a language in which it's easy to say for instance
    precisely where something is located like it is in German or English. But they
    like it that way. It's a positive cultural value from their point of view and
    I have heard many quite convincing arguments about what the benefits are mostly
    having to do with the richness and subtlety of expression that possible and engagement
    that the language requires - an Engagement that English doesn't require or cultivate
    to nearly the same degree.   \r\n\r\nWhy all the Japanese stuff? Because I think
    that a valid counter argument might well be that English is already so over-specific
    that it needs all the room for swoooshy vagueness it can get. The inherently structurally
    repressed subtlety might be cultivating an unconscious wish for a more vagueness
    & poetry. That wish might account for the habit of English to acquire endless
    new words ( Oooh! What could <cite>that</cite> mean? ); and a significant tolerance
    and even love of dialects. Both things provide perhaps a kind of needed 'terra
    incognito' ready to be explored.\r\n\r\nThe additional immediacy and clarity that
    an added \xBF to the front of an English sentence/question makes it clamp down
    harder. Or put another way - it stamps out a minor sense of suspense. \r\n\r\n<cite>You</cite>
    might like that a lot given your predilection for spiky fonts and short brusque
    replys. And that's fine. I even like it about you. \r\n\r\nBut what's good for
    you may not be what the Culture of English wants - quite apart from what cultural
    gatekeepers, establishment types, the conservative by virtue of being frail and
    scared, and assorted stand-ins for 'the man' and Cruft might say.  Sure they may
    be a pain in the ass. May be? ARE. But I think that's not all that's going on.
    \r\n"
  created: '2007-06-20 19:14:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: It's the job of vernacular speech to push the limits of "correct" grammar
    and to defy transliteration. Know I'm sayin?
  created: '2007-06-20 19:39:14'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Nick I know what that means; but how does that impact either Hrant's idea
    or my rebuttal of it? You may be going somewhere with that but I can't seem to
    follow where that might be.\r\n\r\nI thought of another way of framing my argument:
    Explicitness does always equal greater or better meaning. "
  created: '2007-06-20 20:22:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Is the need so great that the language suffers\r\n\r\nWell, need is relative.
    Is the need for Beorcana so great? Both opening question marks (in English) and
    Beorcana are <em>improvements</em>, and that's all the reason crazy people like
    us need! And when you say \"your POV is not average\", I would counter that <em>our</em>
    POV is not average!\r\n\r\n> You tend to be on the constant lookout\r\n> for ways
    to reform language and writing\r\n\r\nWell, I tend to be on the constant lookout
    for improvements anywhere. It's just that I don't share most people's inhibition
    against reforming the most basic things we take for granted. The fact that I'm
    a writing-system mongrel is probably the reason.\r\n\r\n> Did you have trouble
    understanding those last sentences?\r\n\r\nWell, to clarify, it's not about understanding,
    it's about readability (specifically, reducing regressions). You can understand
    text set in NotCaslon, but that doesn't make it a text face.\r\n\r\n> the collective
    momentum/weight of some long-evolved systems that have\r\n> been adapted by millions
    of people to be very, very flexible and expressive.\r\n\r\nI think a lot of it
    is dumb luck, and a lot of it is just dumb. Some things make sense, some don't.
    I believe neither in perfection, nor in improvement through oblivion; the users
    of something (in this case written language) aren't necessarily experts in understanding
    and leveraging it. And they don't even want to be. That's our job/problem.\r\n\r\n>
    English is already so over-specific that it needs\r\n> all the room for swoooshy
    vagueness it can get.\r\n\r\nI actually don't think this is far-fetched. A good
    example is the power of ambiguity in the English \"you\", which is not explicitly
    singular or plural. It's really quite powerful in that way.\r\n\r\nBut this is
    not what's driving the resistance we're seeing here.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-22 05:46:55'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Okay a few quick notes here.\r\n\r\nIf you take a look at the publisher C\xE1tedra
    (one of the most common I see in literature courses because they always do very
    good critical editions), the font they used to use was always the lowered version.
    \ However, in recent editions, they have changed fonts and now use one that has
    the \xA1 and \xBF at the same positioning as an l, rather than a j.  I've always
    considered the l-positioned version to be more \"modern\", with the j-positioned
    being the more traditional.\r\n\r\nhrant: Just like in German you might see a
    double-acute instead of an umlaut, in Spanish I know many people who write both
    \xB4 and ~ as a macron over their letters, myself included (mine is a very low-slanted
    acute over both).  This isn't a modern convention, at least not in anything handwritten
    as you'll see handwritten documents dating back hundreds of years doing this,
    although in the typographical world it's a little bit more contemporary.  A lot
    of road/metro signs in Spain will use it.  I don't know about Latin America though.
    \ Incidentally, as you can see from most of the examples already posted, it is
    far more common and traditional in Spanish texts for the tilde to appear slanted
    upwards, that looks more like the flames coming out of lamps in a lot of university
    logos than what most consider a tilde.  Also, at least in the Golden Age books
    I've worked with, a smaller italic tilde would actually look more like an inverted
    breve, though a lot more crescent-like.  I can't get the insert-image thing to
    work but I'll try posting for work tomorrow when I'm on a PC.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2007-06-22 09:10:59'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Hrm, the edit button seems to be missing.  I also wanted to point out that
    the street sign \"Alta Canyada\" might not be resultant of the signshop lacking
    an \xD1 so much as it possibly being a street in Catalu\xF1a, which, in Catal\xE0,
    most words that are cognate to Spanish that would have an \xD1 in the latter will
    have an NY in the former.\r\n\r\nHence Catalu\xF1a / Catalunya, a\xF1o / any,
    ca\xF1\xF3n / cany\xF3.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que
    apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier
    Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2007-06-22 09:26:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Dude, that sign is in Glendale, CA. If they don't know\r\nhow to make a \xF1,
    you can be sure they think Catalu\xF1a\r\nis some Mexican alcoholic drink.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-22 15:28:37'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Oh, well in that case never mind :) .  In New Mexico the signs do have acute
    accents and tildes as appropriate, although one sign in Alburquerque the tilde
    was on backwards.\r\n  \r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas
    nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2007-06-23 02:13:37'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Dude, that sign is in Glendale, CA.</em>\r\n\r\nI forgot to mention earlier
    that this happens a lot to Spanish names and last names in the U.S., too.\r\n\r\nEvery
    time I see the name of film director Victor Nunez, for example, my reaction is
    always to think, \"Well, it's <em>really</em> written N\xFA\xF1ez\"... Or even
    my own last name... in print (on my letterhead, say) I still place an accent on
    it: C\xF3rdoba. But with my username here on Typophile, or for e-mail and other
    online stuff, technological limitations force me to use Cordoba.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-23 03:04:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, I live on Ca\xF1ada boulevard. When we moved to this house we didn't
    have phone service for three days, because I tried to spell it out correctly.
    Since then I just say \"Canada, like the country.\" But of course that can fail
    too - I remember once overhearing the manager of a large grocery store trying
    to help a customer use a calling card she had purchased from there, but ending
    up saying: \"I'm sorry, but I'm not seeing a country code for Berlin.\" Then they
    ask these people to elect a president.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-23 03:21:13'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Since then I just say \"Canada, like the country.\" But of course that
    can fail too</em>\r\n\r\nWell, wait a minute... \"Canyada\" (or \"Ca\xF1ada\",
    or \"Caniada\") does not sound like \"Canada\"... In the case of a place name
    that's been \"localized\", isn't it better to just go with the flow?\r\n\r\nIn
    the suburbs of Buenos Aires there is a borough called Hurlingham, because it was
    settled by Britons, but in Spanish the \"H\" is silent, and the \"u\" sounds like
    \"ooh\" does in English. So you always get people discussing what the correct
    pronunciation is... But most people in Argentina pronounce it \"in Spanish\" and
    silence the H, even the ones who know English. It's not \"correct\", but it makes
    life easier, y'know?  :-)"
  created: '2007-06-23 15:40:10'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>If you take a look at the publisher C\xE1tedra (one of the most common
    I see in literature courses because they always do very good critical editions),
    the font they used to use was always the lowered version. However, in recent editions,
    they have changed fonts and now use one that has the \xA1 and \xBF at the same
    positioning as an l, rather than a j. I've always considered the l-positioned
    version to be more \"modern\", with the j-positioned being the more traditional.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's
    a shame you can't upload any images right now, guifa, because as Kent said earlier,
    it would be good to see the fonts they were using before and after. And of course
    there is no way of knowing if anyone at C\xE1tedra took note of this difference,
    or if they just didn't have time to change that... \r\n\r\nI was looking at some
    books from a Buenos Aires schoolbook publisher I used to work for, and I found
    one where depending on the font, the placement of the exclamdown and questiondown
    varies... I don't remember anyone ever saying anything about that while I was
    there... And I don't think we would have had time to fix something like that --
    we were too busy creating the layouts of all the books they were doing that year!"
  created: '2007-06-23 15:53:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, I pronounce it \"ka-na-da\" (and usually spell it\r\nwithout the tilde
    on forms) just to avoid trouble.\r\n\r\nBut I wouldn't say it's been \"localized\",
    for the\r\nsimple fact that, officially, the tilde is in there.\r\nWhen it's missing,
    or it's replaced with a macron\r\nor a \"y\", that's just an aberration - although
    an\r\naberration that's telling of the sometimes dege-\r\nnerative role of technology
    on culture; the older\r\nhand-made signs all have the tilde. I gave a talk\r\nabout
    this topic in Yerevan last October, and I\r\nthink people liked it, even though
    it was actually\r\na technology conference!  :-) I think I tapped into\r\nan unspoken
    unease on the part of the delegates,\r\nmost of whom were from non-Western cultures.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-23 16:09:58'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>When it's missing, or it's replaced with a macron or a \"y\", that's
    just an aberration - although an aberration that's telling of the sometimes degenerative
    role of technology on culture; the older hand-made signs all have the tilde.</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is just blind speculation on my part, but it could also be that the makers of
    the older, handmade signs were more aware of the Spanish origins of the name,
    or even that they came from Spanish-speaking families. Anyway, it wouldn't be
    the first time a word that comes from another culture gradually morphs into something
    slightly different -- just look at the origins of the word <strong>moccasin</strong>,
    or the name <strong>Manhattan</strong>."
  created: '2007-06-24 01:11:33'
date: '2007-06-10 11:32:26'
title: Proper placement of exclamdown and questiondown

---
