---
author:
  name: Nick Cooke
  picture: 109834
body: I am curious to know whether it is possible to 'extract' fonts from pdf documents.
  I can't remember where I heard it, but I seem to remember it may be. Sorry, I can't
  be any vaguer than that!
comments:
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "I have heard that it is possible to partly reconstruct a font from a PDF.
    It involves copy-pasting from the PDF to a text editor. The catch is knowing exactly
    what to copy from the PDF.\r\n\r\nIf this holds true I don't know. In theory it
    sounds possible."
  created: '2007-06-11 11:12:33'
- author:
    name: malbright
    picture: 111180
  body: "In theory, it is possible. In practice, it's like stealing. At least it seems
    like that to me.\r\n\r\nBecause it is entirely possible to pull fonts from pdfs
    (granted, without kerning pairs and other important features) it is causing more
    and more foundries to forbid us designers from embedding fonts when we send our
    files off to printers. One foundry, Letterhead Fonts, has even built in copy protection
    that prevents such embedding. This creates a world of extra work, and is unfortunate.
    Understandable, though.\r\n\r\nAnyway, in my personal opinion, this is the last
    place in the world I would look for information on how to extract fonts from pdfs."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Stefan Seifert
      picture: 112624
    body: "Anyway, in my personal opinion, this is the last place in the world I would
      look for information on how to extract fonts from pdfs.\r\n\r\n\r\n:-))) I think
      so, too."
    created: '2007-06-17 13:08:10'
  created: '2007-06-11 12:10:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Hi Michael, I'm not looking for information on how to extract fonts from
    pdf's. I sincerely hope it can't be done. And yes, of course it is stealing.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2007-06-11 12:44:29'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "<cite>In theory, it is possible. In practice, it\u2019s like stealing. At
    least it seems like that to me.</cite>\r\nBut of course. We all hope it's not
    possible, that goes without saying."
  created: '2007-06-11 12:46:50'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Because it is entirely possible to pull fonts from pdfs (granted, without
    kerning pairs and other important features) it is causing more and more foundries
    to forbid us designers from embedding fonts\"\r\n\r\nParanoia is causing that.
    If I want a font without paying for it, I'm not going to spend time extracting
    it from a PDF...I'll just download it off the internet somewhere.\r\n\r\nNick:
    It's software. Therefore, yes, it can be done. Pretty much any software can be
    cracked/reversed engineered by those willing to figure it out."
  created: '2007-06-11 14:40:34'
- author:
    name: malbright
    picture: 111180
  body: "Hi folks,\r\nNo harm meant, nor did I mean to imply that anyone here was
    actually going to steal a font by ripping it from a PDF. \r\n\r\naluminum, I happen
    to agree that it's kind of a desperate and self-delusional act to think that EULAs
    that forbid font embedding do any good. For a lively discussion on this subject,
    check out the lengthy thread here about Letterhead Fonts copy protection scheme.
    Then go to Letterhead Fonts and see what Chuck, the proprietor, has to say on
    the issue. He's written a rather good explanation for his thinking, and one can
    just feel his pain.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-11 15:07:48'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "There is a certain breed (I know, I used to be one), somewhat like the Elvis
    obsessed meter maid recently busted in England, that has a font addiction. They
    have to have every font that exists. Right and wrong can be rationalized with
    only a little effort.\r\n\r\nThe fonts I have seen extracted, were missing so
    much, I wasn't really attracted. But what I would worry about if I were a fontmaker
    is that these files aren't always labeled, and there are stripped copies of commercial
    fonts floating around that might make people question the work quality of a designer.\r\n\r\nBut
    a person can get a pristine version of almost any font that has been out for a
    while through normal addict channels, if one is dedicated. So I think the main
    issue with the .pdf extracts is the quality reflection on the artist."
  created: '2007-06-11 15:30:26'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I happen to agree that it\u2019s kind of a desperate and self-delusional
    act to think that EULAs that forbid font embedding do any good.\r\n\r\nWell, there
    are also embedding permissions in the fonts that most reputable applications will
    abide by - Acrobat, Powerpoint, Word etc., (not sure about Flash) - so it's not
    just a EULA issue. Bad people would need to go to some effort to flip the bits
    to their liking. \r\n\r\nI agree there's some paranoia out there, probably based
    on actual reported font crimes, but also some vendors see offering extended embedding
    rights as a way of making a few extra $'s and to that I say best of luck to them.\r\n\r\nAlso
    I think LH fonts are on the fringe, and until others follow their lead (I don't
    see a line forming) I don't think they are really part of the equation. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-11 16:44:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The bottom line is that for people who would pay for fonts anyway\r\nthe
    effort/cost of reconstructing anything remotely usable from a\r\nPDF just doesn't
    make sense. If some guy in a shack is turned on by\r\ndoing it, who cares.\r\n\r\n>
    some vendors see offering extended embedding rights\r\n\r\nWhat's typically the
    premium one has to pay for that?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-11 17:02:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "That's what I thought Hrant \u2013 It would cost more in hours than it would
    to buy the font. It's just not worth the effort trying to reconstruct it.\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2007-06-11 17:14:16'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "It's not paranoia, but a mistaken believe that whenever one has an economic
    interest one has a legal right, and further, that the law must come to one's aid
    by making an act that deprives one of potential profits a crime.\r\n\r\nThe extraction
    of fonts from pdf, and I suppose that's possible, would not be a crime (or even
    an infringement); however, some legislatures may decide to make the use of unlicensed
    fonts a violation of the owner's rights -- most typically a civil matter."
  created: '2007-06-11 18:55:38'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<cite>I am curious to know whether it is possible to \u2018extract\u2019
    fonts from pdf documents. I can\u2019t remember where I heard it, but I seem to
    remember it may be. Sorry, I can\u2019t be any vaguer than that!</cite>\r\n\r\nWhenever
    you open a PDF file, the Adobe Acrobat reader (or any other PDF viewer) \"extracts\"
    or \"copies\" the fonts embedded into this PDF file and uses these fonts, as if
    these fonts had been installed beforehand.\r\n\r\nIf fonts were protected by \"copy\"-right
    and if it were illegal to \"copy\" fonts, then by opening a PDF file with Adobe
    Acrobat you would make an illegal \"copy\" of the fonts embedded into this PDF
    file.\r\n\r\nThe Adobe reader may be regarded as a \"font extracting hacker tool\":
    Any font embedded into a PDF is automatically extracted -- with no questions asked."
  created: '2007-06-11 18:56:29'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "The only people on earth that pay an embedding license are corporations.
    That's it.\r\n\r\nThere are a few tools to extract fonts from the TUG side of
    the world... haven't tried but you and I know it sucks.\r\n\r\nIts what Hrant
    says... foundries trying to make a few bucks..."
  created: '2007-06-11 19:02:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually Simon said that - I'm just trying to find out how much.  :-)\r\nIs
    Tiffany here? She spends a lot at Emigre - she must know.\r\n\r\n> by opening
    a PDF file with Adobe Acrobat\r\n> you would make an illegal \u201Ccopy\u201D\r\n\r\nWho
    says that's not illegal? In fact if for example you read the Emigre EULA it becomes
    clear that doing a convert-to-outlines in Illustrator is illegal! But the companies
    decide when to hunt somebody down and when to look the other way.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-11 19:10:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">What\u2019s typically the premium one has to pay for that?\r\n\r\nDon't
    know, but I have a feeling the pricing may not always be transparent. \r\n\r\n>Is
    Tiffany here? She spends a lot at Emigre - she must know.\r\n\r\nI was going to
    suggest Tiffany too. ;-)"
  created: '2007-06-11 19:17:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Typophile: the Transparenter.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-11 19:19:53'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>I was going to suggest Tiffany too. ;-)</em>\r\n\r\nUm, I think she's
    a little busy right now....  ;-)"
  created: '2007-06-11 20:40:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I completely forgot!  :-)\r\nThree days ago it was...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-11 21:01:06'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "<cite>Who says that\u2019s not illegal? In fact if for example you read the
    Emigre EULA it becomes clear that doing a convert-to-outlines in Illustrator is
    illegal</cite>\r\n\r\nA breach of contract may be a lot of things, but generally
    not \"illegal\". Our civilization depends on it."
  created: '2007-06-11 22:19:15'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: 'I have had some thoughts about a way to remedy the illegal distribution and
    use of fonts. Acually it can be summed up in one word: iTunes. Think about it:
    If it''s possible to run a DRM system on music files that only play on authorized
    computers, then why not font files? Something like Linotype FontExplorer is already
    half way there. It has the shop, now ''just'' add DRM. I could see MyFonts doing
    something like this. What do you say? '
  created: '2007-06-11 22:34:55'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: Apple has just started moving away from DRM. And for good reasons. DRM will
    only hurt the users who have bought the software (music, fonts and so on). DRM
    didn't stop illegal sharing of music. Why should it be different with fonts?
  created: '2007-06-11 22:58:02'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Like most anything, you both can & can't \"steal\" a front from a PDF. Early
    on, there was no protection. Later, around the time of Acrobat 5, protection became
    better. I assume it's gotten even better with later versions. I tried it just
    for the hell of it back in the late 1990s, extracting a font I already owned.
    Aside from the \"no metrics,\" I probably spent an hour figuring out what to write
    off. Metrics add a day, right? Maybe a high school kid will do it for fun -- but
    they'll likely get the metrics wrong. For anybody else, it costs over twice as
    much to steal it as to buy. BTW, I tried this after Acrobat 5 or so (with protection)
    & couldn't extract it, but all that probably shows is my level of programming
    skill, which isn't very high. If you can break into a high-security computer,
    you can probably steal a font -- in fact, you can probably break into a foundry's
    computers & steal the whole library.\r\n\r\nBTW, not being allowed to embed a
    font stops it's use for bookwork."
  created: '2007-06-12 01:48:53'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Clauses:\r\n\r\nWhile DRM is possible, the point is that it is completely
    breakable. And, typically, always is.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-12 15:16:29'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Well, every \"DRM\" system is breakable, in worst case using analog tools.
    With music, the principle is \"if you can hear it, you can copy it\". That's obvious.
    The simplest way is to attach a digital recorder to the Audio Out port of your
    computer. \r\n\r\nWith fonts, the same principle applies, by the way of \"if you
    can see it, you can copy it\". The most brute-force method is scan and autotrace,
    a bit more refined method would be convert to outlines and dissect into a font
    again. \r\n\r\nThere are some legal implications of that. I hope that I will be
    able to collect some data and talk about it, perhaps at ATypI TypeTech. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-06-12 17:33:30'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Early on, clauses said... <em>I have heard that it is possible to partly
    reconstruct a font from a PDF. It involves copy-pasting from the PDF to a text
    editor.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm sure it must be more complicated than that. What you are
    describing is text extraction rather than font extraction.  ;-)\r\n\r\nLater,
    fontplayer said... <em>The fonts I have seen extracted, were missing so much...</em>\r\n\r\nSir,
    yours is the first eyewitness report I have ever read... So it's not just a paranoid
    theory. Apparently there is also a piece of software out there that can purportedly
    reconstruct a Flash .fla file from just a .swf file! I can imagine that the results
    of <em>that</em> are just as paltry..."
  created: '2007-06-13 06:49:46'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>It\u2019s not paranoia, but a mistaken believe that whenever one has
    an economic interest one has a legal right, and further, that the law must come
    to one\u2019s aid by making an act that deprives one of potential profits a crime.</em>\r\n\r\nTypequake,
    do you own a small font foundry that in spite of lots of recognition from designers
    and the media, has to put up with many, many instances of its fonts (i.e., its
    livelihood) being pirated? I'm just curious.  :-)"
  created: '2007-06-13 06:58:21'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Cordoba:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Sir, yours is the first eyewitness report I have
    ever read\u2026 So it\u2019s not just a paranoid theory.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nExtraction
    of fonts from PDF files is not a mare's nest. For example, I extracted fonts from
    PDF files using my own extraction tools specifically designed for the purpose
    of documenting inhouse font forgeries not available on the market and made by
    big companies (e.g. UPS). However, at Typophile, for reasons of censorship, it
    is not allowed to describe the techniques of extracting fonts from PDF files.\r\n\r\nMr.
    Twardoch:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"if you can see it, you can copy it\".</cite>\r\n\r\nCorrect.
    We can go a step ahead and say: Seeing a font proves that Adobe Acrobat extracted
    the font from the PDF file. What is regarded as illegal by Adobe, namely to extract
    fonts, is done by Adobe with its own font extracting tool Adobe Acrobat.\r\n\r\nFor
    example, by the German copyright act, it is illegal to make a \"permanent or temporary
    reproduction of a computer program by any means and in any form, in part or in
    whole\" (see \xA7 69c UrhG). If fonts were software (Adobe says so. I don't),
    then the sale of Adobe Acrobat would be illegal, since it is a font extracting
    tool.\r\n\r\nAdobe Acrobat would be entirely useless, if it did not extract the
    fonts from PDF files, because this would mean that you could not see the embedded
    fonts. Since you would have to use substitute fonts such as \"Courier\" for reading
    PDF files with the consequence that Adobe would not sell any longer its big money-making
    Acrobat cash cow, if it did not extract the fonts, Adobe does what it calls illegal
    and extracts them from PDF files.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-13 09:17:30'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "Ricardo,\r\n\r\nI'm an academic. I don't own or operate a foundry, I don't
    design faces, and I have no interest in copying or extracting fonts. It doesn't
    make my opinion less valid than anyone else's. On the contrary, my point was that
    a legal right can't be established simply from the fact that one has an economic
    interest. Therefore, if anything, my opinion is more objective -- but I do sympathize.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-13 14:30:54'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Nick,\r\n\r\nThe answer is a simple \"Yes, it can be done.\"\r\nFollowed
    by, \"Yes, it is done.\"\r\n\r\nHowever, the people who extract these fonts do
    not care that the kerning pairs are not part of the extraction. Some folks do
    it just because they want to own the font, will never use it. \r\n\r\nBTW, this
    is one of the reasons that Chuck Davis of Letterhead has his \"new-style\" of
    open font which CANNOT be embedded into a pdf. \r\n\r\nAnd P.S. You may have read
    about it here from me, when I implored someone to \"flatten\" their pdf so the
    type would be a graphic and not a font! (And therefore, impossible to extract.)"
  created: '2007-06-13 14:55:14'
- author:
    name: Co
  body: "The fonts are being extracted more and more. It's actually surprisingly easy.
    Those who extract fonts probably never purchase fonts. \r\n\r\nOurType fonts have
    no embedding restrictions, and if we would apply them, we would most likely punish
    our real clients.\r\n\r\nExtracting fonts for further sampling - is another related
    issue...\r\n\r\nEastern European countries and Russia are a paradise for illegal
    and ripped-off fonts. At the moment those countries are literally uncontrollable:
    there is no legal frame regarding copyright infringement, and above all, there
    is no culture of purchasing software or fonts.\r\n\r\n\r\nCo Cotorobai\r\nOurType"
  created: '2007-06-13 16:21:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Those who extract fonts probably never purchase fonts.\r\n\r\nThis is the
    key realization, but sadly seems to escape many foundries.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-13 16:25:13'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "<em>I implored someone to \u201Cflatten\u201D their pdf so the type would
    be a graphic and not a font! (And therefore, impossible to extract.)</em>\r\n\r\nAnd
    impossible to search. "
  created: '2007-06-13 16:44:31'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I implored someone to \u201Cflatten\u201D their pdf so the type would be
    a graphic and not a font! (And therefore, impossible to extract.)\r\n\r\n>And
    impossible to search.\r\n\r\nMicrosoft's XPS actually does this for 'no embedding'
    fonts - generating a static bitmap for the text to preserve some level of font
    fidelity. I believe the Unicode codepoints stick around allowing for searching,
    but I could be wrong.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-13 16:49:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Here's a trick: make a PDF where the text is rendered to a bitmap, but have
    a layer of invisible, searchable text on top, set in Adobe Sans/Serif to match
    the set widths, and when the searched word is highlighted you [might] even get
    a box on top of the bitmap rendering.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-13 16:54:35'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: The Adobe funded Octavo CD-ROM books worked this way, if I recall correctly.
  created: '2007-06-13 17:00:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The guys aren't even old and they already took my idea!  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-13 17:03:08'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: That's because ideas aren't subject to copyright...
  created: '2007-06-13 18:04:27'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> \"The fonts are being extracted more and more. It\u2019s actually surprisingly
    easy.\"\r\n\r\nMrs. Cotorobai:\r\n\r\nWhat makes you think so? I can't confirm
    that it is \"actually surprisingly easy\".\r\n\r\nIn the good old days, there
    was only one font format and one PS and one PDF file format, but today, there
    are different types of font formats and hence different types of PS and PDF formats,
    which makes things very tricky.\r\n\r\nFor example, extracting all 22 Akzidenz
    Grotesk fonts from this \"stone-age\" file\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/fontdocs/ag1992ps.zip\r\n\r\nis
    \"actually surprisingly easy\" even for \"bloody laymen\", since no programming
    skill at all is needed here.\r\n\r\nBut today's PostScript and PDF files are much
    trickier so that a high degree of proficiency in computer programming is required.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-13 18:09:57'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"\u201Cflatten\u201D their pdf so the type would be a graphic and not a
    font! (And therefore, impossible to extract.)\"\r\n\r\nAs stated, that also makes
    PDFs rather useless as electronic decouments and, besides, it's fairly trivial
    to get the vector outlines and import them back into a font format anyways."
  created: '2007-06-13 19:29:23'
- author:
    name: Co
  body: "To Uli --\r\n\r\nyes, one can get a better or a poorer result after extracting
    (depending on one's skills). The 'easy' method consists of 5 steps (which I am
    not going to describe here for obvious reasons). Well, we must not argue about
    the 'easy' part; purchasing a font online seems much easier to me.\r\n\r\nCo Cotorobai\r\nOurType"
  created: '2007-06-13 20:07:28'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> \"purchasing a font online seems much easier to me.\"\r\n\r\nPurchasing
    fonts may seem to be easier. But copying fonts instead of buying them is regarded
    as easier, especially by font sellers. For instance, the Akzidenz Grotesk copyable
    from the above file was copied by Linotype without purchasing it and is now sold
    by Linotype under a new name. Many font sellers regard it as easier to copy fonts
    instead of buying them.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-13 21:23:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, saving $29 was the key to that dastardly deed...\r\nI'm sorry, but you're
    a dumb-a*s.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-13 22:07:31'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: 'Uli: What is the name of the font that Linotype allegedly copied and renamed?'
  created: '2007-06-14 04:32:33'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Bruno Steinert had a dream of making it easier to license fonts than pirate
    them hence Font Explorer X. Price probably comes into it too, but quality, service
    after the sale, upgrades etc., play into this as well. '
  created: '2007-06-14 05:21:52'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "\"In the good old days, there was only one font format...\"\r\n\r\nUli\r\n\r\nThat
    would have been Bitstream's, correct? There was a time when only certain fonts
    could work on certain computers/printers (as someone postulated here as a solution).
    Proprietary economics is actually how type had been sold since the beginning of
    the stand alone foundry. And by foundry I mean REAL foundry, ca 16th century.\r\n\r\nAdobe's
    unlicensing of the PS1 format was unprecedented (and killed off traditional protection
    schemes\u2014and Bitstream's competitive format, which was the idea). The problems
    of copying, theft, extracting, etc., are a natural extension of the fact that
    the software tools (Fontographer, FontLab) used for type design rely on unlicensed
    font formats.\r\n\r\nHas any digital type foundry ever paid one cent in tribute
    to Adobe, Apple, or Microsoft for piggy-backing on their free font formating?
    Hell no. And why would they? It's free. Still, when you opt into the system, you
    have to live by its rules. That, or come up with your own system.\r\n\r\nGerald\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-14 08:17:05'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "</i></cite>I was posting to try to stop the italics, but I guess I didn't
    figure out what tag was left open (not \"i\" or \"cite\").\r\n\r\nBut also to
    say, yes it's possible to rip fonts off from a PDF. There are a number of limitations
    to this, and there are easier ways to steal an intact font. BTW, it's certainly
    my understanding that stealing fonts from PDFs like this *is* illegal in the USA
    and most western European countries. Of course, I'm not a lawyer, and you should
    talk to your own lawyer before doing anything like that.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-06-14 08:32:02'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "<em>\u201CIn the good old days, there was only one font format\u2026\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nI'm
    from those good old days - and even in the beginning - there was more than one
    format for MAC (I cannot speak about IBM and IBM Clones [Dell, Gateway, etc.[)
    but from Adobe we had Type 1 and from Bitstream and most others Type 3, or as
    some called it Type C. When Adobe allowed others to use their Type 1 method -
    it was a little easier. Some manufacturers took back their Type 3s and replaced
    them for us as Type 1s. Others were out of business. Every now and then I do a
    job and a Type 3 (or C) font emerges and cannot rip -- out comes Fontographer
    to change it to a Type 1 and therefore usable.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile back to \"flatten
    out the type\" -- I was asking the manufacturers of their own type to do this
    for their initial PDFs when showing a new face. It is amazing that when a manufacturer
    wants to release the new designs, they put out \"embedded\" fonts in their PDF
    -- and the Russians jump on this and immediately extract it. Right now there are
    so many bad versions going around -- in some ways it is quite funny. And I always
    hope that if anyone picks up one of these and wants to use it -- they will go
    and buy the original. (Less points per letter and kerning pairs worked out!)"
  created: '2007-06-14 12:06:20'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> I was posting to try to stop the italics, but I guess I didn\u2019t figure
    out what tag was left open (not \u201Ci\u201D or \u201Ccite\u201D).\r\n\r\nTypequake
    left out the / after citing \"Who says that\u2019s not illegal? In fact if for
    example you read the Emigre EULA it becomes clear that doing a convert-to-outlines
    in Illustrator is illegal\"\r\n\r\nI think only he or a moderator can fix it."
  created: '2007-06-14 15:12:18'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I was posting to try to stop the italics, but I guess I didn\u2019t figure
    out what tag was left open (not \u201Ci\u201D or \u201Ccite\u201D).</em>\r\n\r\nThomas,
    i can never catch these problems unless pointed out because i use Firefox, which
    doesn't display tags the same way some other browsers do. If anyone ever finds
    one of these unclosed tags, you can always contact me or one of the moderators
    to fix this without resorting to code hacks. >^p"
  created: '2007-06-14 15:33:14'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: I don't think I left out anything -- the post looked good on my Firefox too.
  created: '2007-06-14 16:39:04'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> I don\u2019t think I left out anything \u2014 the post looked good on my
    Firefox too.\r\n\r\nI viewed the source code and the / was not there. Paul fixed
    it.\r\nI wouldn't bandy about such accusations without cause.\r\n; )"
  created: '2007-06-14 16:49:18'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: Jftr & fwiw, I'm not sure it fits in this thread, but you all would probably
    be surprised at the amount of money spent on fonts by font addicts (often referred
    to here as font pirates). Every single one I have close contact with have spent
    at least a small fortune on fonts, never to actually use them for anything. Go
    figure.
  created: '2007-06-14 16:50:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">never to actually use them for anything. \r\n\r\nI suppose they tell you
    same thing about their extensive pornographic magazine collection too ;-)"
  created: '2007-06-14 18:30:26'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "gee, yes sii - they do \r\n\r\nLOL"
  created: '2007-06-14 18:32:05'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "\"In the good old days, there was only one font format\u2026\"\r\n\r\n\"That
    would have been Bitstream\u2019s, correct?\"\r\n\r\nMr. Lange:\r\n\r\nSince the
    topic of this thread is \"PDF font extraction\", I was only thinking of the oldest
    versions of Adobe Acrobat Distiller which generated PDF files embedding entire
    Type 1 PFB files as complete and unmodified PFA files (which may be directly opened
    with Fontlab and similar programs) in the same manner as the PostScript files
    generated by the old PS drivers used at that time (e.g. QMS 800).\r\n\r\nBitstream's
    format could not be embedded into PDF files.\r\n\r\nYou will most certainly know
    that Peter Karow's interesting 455-page book \"Digital Schriften\" describes in
    detail the oldest font formats, e.g. Ikarus, Intellifont etc., but unfortunately
    it only mentions the Bitstream format incidenter (i.e. without technical details).\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-14 19:06:06'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> I suppose they tell you same thing about their extensive pornographic magazine
    collection too ;-)\r\n\r\nThose are reportedly for the articles, but half the
    font-addicts I know are females, so who knows?..."
  created: '2007-06-14 23:27:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: Nick Cooke
  created: '2007-06-22 11:48:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "No longer any edit? \r\n\r\nI wanted to say that <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/34637\">this</a>
    is the reason I asked the question. I am now fairly confident that it would be
    pretty difficult, (not to mention financially unviable) to produce working OpenType
    fonts extracted from the pdf.\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2007-06-22 11:59:04'
- author:
    name: nobodyelse
  body: "Sorry to write to a so old discussion thread.\r\n\r\nI have programmed a
    tool myself this afternoon, not to steal the fonts but to be able to change some
    incorrect information on some documents from which we have lost the originals.\r\n\r\nThe
    tool works fully automatic and extracts the subset of fonts embedded in a pdf
    file and converts them to trueType fonts.\r\n\r\nQuestions are, \r\nShould I make
    the tool public available? \r\nWould it be useful for anyone?\r\nWhat do you think
    about an online tool, where you upload the pdf and download a zip with the subsets
    of fonts? \r\nWould I be doing something illegal?\r\n\r\nThanks for the advise.\r\n\r\nnobody"
  created: '2008-04-03 20:44:47'
- author:
    name: Renko
    picture: 111443
  body: Two days late, Troll.
  created: '2008-04-03 21:38:27'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: no you shouldn't make it available
  created: '2008-04-03 22:04:56'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "No reason for name-calling, Rainer.\r\n\r\nNobody the tool sounds like something
    which no one, barring your extreme example, would ever need. If people have proper
    license for the fonts to begin with  they will never need to use your tool, they'd
    simply need to contact the foundry."
  created: '2008-04-03 22:54:44'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: Tiff is the lady!!
  created: '2008-04-03 23:33:10'
- author:
    name: nlx
  body: How is it possible to check a font to verifiy its not an extract ?
  created: '2008-05-18 15:06:19'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "If the font has kerning tables, it probably was not extracted.\r\n\r\nOtherwise,
    you could email it to the foundry and ask them to look. Then again, if it\u2019s
    a legit font, it should have come from them to begin with\u2026"
  created: '2008-05-18 15:41:43'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "I know there are ways to pull embedded goodies out of any sort of file, but
    the question is, if you only desired the typeface to make an adjustment, or you
    really want a font for a few words, why not just open the pages in illustrator,
    grab the glyph outlines and play around with those.\r\n\r\nI mean, we might think
    it's barbaric to deal with a pageful of outlines glyphs and have to move them
    around manually\u2026but wasn't that what typesetting was anyways?\r\n\r\nIt's
    saved me in the past (where I didn't have a font available, or the means to get
    it because I was in a different town and only had the PDF)\r\n\r\nIt's not pretty,
    but it can be done successfully!"
  created: '2008-05-18 17:14:51'
- author:
    name: nlx
  body: "Sometime you just use the font of your client/agency\u2026 but anyway i'm
    not here to talk about legal issue and the forum don't work for the police.\r\n\r\nWhat
    i would like to know is : what software can be used to look at kerning (i don't
    use/have font software like FontLab. etc.). Can i see this with FontExplorer or
    something like this ?"
  created: '2008-05-18 17:17:28'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Free trial of one of the FontLab tools might be your best bet? Or maybe TTX? '
  created: '2008-05-18 19:12:24'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Just check for negative kerning between A and V in Indesign. Just about everybody
    ends up kerning those.
  created: '2008-05-18 19:20:14'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>If the font has kerning tables, it probably was not extracted.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure that this is a good indicator ... most PDF-extracted fonts I've seen
    had been run through some kind of automatic kerning software. Some have OT features.
    Heck, some people even seem to draw additional glyphs that were missing in the
    PDF. Their time must be really worth nothing.\r\n\r\nI think a digital signature
    may be the most reliable sign that a font is in its original state. But not everybody
    signs their fonts."
  created: '2008-05-20 09:47:31'
- author:
    name: Gravis
  body: "im going to be honest here:  you are charging too much for fonts.  all i
    wanted was a font to mimic a famous tabloid so that i could post a funny picture
    on a forum.  however, when i finally found the font it used, it was $480 to get
    the font pack and the proxy site that wanted to sell it to me had a huge overhead
    as it was $580.  now, im a home user and no home user is going to pay that outrageous
    price.  i know you are targeting commercial entities so really, you had this coming.
    \ i was honestly willing to plunk down $5 for something i would probably only
    use once or twice but no, now you wont even be getting that.  you have only yourselves
    to blame for this.\r\n\r\nthanks for the fonts,\r\nGravis\r\n\r\n\r\n<code>name&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;type&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    emb sub uni object ID\r\n------------------------------- -------- --- --- ---
    ---------\r\nFEIEKC+Interstate-Regular&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Type
    1C&nbsp;&nbsp;yes yes yes&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 60&nbsp;&nbsp;0\r\nFEIFAJ+EldoradoText-Roman&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    Type 1C&nbsp;&nbsp;yes yes yes&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 54&nbsp;&nbsp;0\r\nFEIFFO+EldoradoText-RomanSC&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    Type 1C&nbsp;&nbsp;yes yes yes&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 64&nbsp;&nbsp;0\r\nFEIFNI+Interstate-Light&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    Type 1C&nbsp;&nbsp;yes yes yes&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 80&nbsp;&nbsp;0\r\nFEIIGG+Interstate-Bold&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Type
    1C&nbsp;&nbsp;yes yes yes&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;130&nbsp;&nbsp;0\r\nFEIPAI+Rhode-BlackNormal&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Type
    1C&nbsp;&nbsp;yes yes yes&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 87&nbsp;&nbsp;0\r\nFEIPGP+Rhode-MediumExtended&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    Type 1C&nbsp;&nbsp;yes yes yes&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 71&nbsp;&nbsp;0\r\nFEIPLE+Rhode-SemiboldCondensed&nbsp;&nbsp;Type
    1C&nbsp;&nbsp;yes yes yes&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 78&nbsp;&nbsp;0\r\nFEJAAK+Rhode-SemiboldWide&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    Type 1C&nbsp;&nbsp;yes yes yes&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 75&nbsp;&nbsp;0\r\nFEJAFP+Rhode-BlackWide&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Type
    1C&nbsp;&nbsp;yes yes yes&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;107&nbsp;&nbsp;0\r\nFEJAKE+Rhode-MediumCondensed&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Type
    1C&nbsp;&nbsp;yes yes yes&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 94&nbsp;&nbsp;0\r\nFEJAOI+Rhode-BlackCondensed&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    Type 1C&nbsp;&nbsp;yes yes yes&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 97&nbsp;&nbsp;0\r\nFEJBDO+Rhode-BoldWide&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    Type 1C&nbsp;&nbsp;yes yes yes&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;122&nbsp;&nbsp;0\r\nFEJBKE+Rhode-MediumWide&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    Type 1C&nbsp;&nbsp;yes yes yes&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;110&nbsp;&nbsp;0\r\nFEJBPJ+Rhode-BoldExtended&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    Type 1C&nbsp;&nbsp;yes yes yes&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;114&nbsp;&nbsp;0\r\nFEJCEO+Rhode-BoldNormal&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    Type 1C&nbsp;&nbsp;yes yes yes&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;126&nbsp;&nbsp;0\r\nFEIJIE+Interstate-LightItalic&nbsp;&nbsp;
    Type 1C&nbsp;&nbsp;yes yes yes&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 40&nbsp;&nbsp;0\r\nFEINAL+Interstate-Black&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    Type 1C&nbsp;&nbsp;yes yes yes&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 35&nbsp;&nbsp;0\r\nFEJEBE+Rhode-MediumNormal&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    Type 1C&nbsp;&nbsp;yes yes yes&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 28&nbsp;&nbsp;0\r\nFEJEFK+Rhode-SemiboldNormal&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    Type 1C&nbsp;&nbsp;yes yes yes&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 23&nbsp;&nbsp;0\r\nFEJJHO+Rhode-BlackExtended&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Type
    1C&nbsp;&nbsp;yes yes yes&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 18&nbsp;&nbsp;0\r\nFEJLPL+Rhode-BoldCondensed&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Type
    1C&nbsp;&nbsp;yes yes yes&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 13&nbsp;&nbsp;0\r\nFEJOKA+Rhode-SemiboldExtended&nbsp;&nbsp;
    Type 1C&nbsp;&nbsp;yes yes yes&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;8&nbsp;&nbsp;0</code>\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-09 18:45:47'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Gravis, if you are not used to paying money for good fonts then that means
    you won\u2019t know how to use them well anyway. \r\n\r\nSorry, not impressed!"
  created: '2008-06-09 18:54:41'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I'm going to be honest here, Gravis...your 'need to post a funny picture
    on a forum' argument won't likely change anyone's mind to cut their prices by
    400% and start losing money in the process.\r\n\r\nThat said, it's a concept that's
    been tossed about now again...a 'typesetting' license for one-off uses. It has
    some credence. Of course, for just making a goofy non-commercial JPG to impress
    your friends, one would assume a screen shot of the word set via the foundry's
    online typesetting tool would have not only sufficed, but been the quickest way
    to accomplish what you wanted to do."
  created: '2008-06-09 19:35:48'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Yes, the idea that you were forced to pirate is nonsense. All the bravado
    you worked up along the way is likewise. \r\n\r\nDarrel, you make some good points
    about one-off rendering..."
  created: '2008-06-10 09:16:05'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: It's really not my fault I stole that Porsche the other day. I only wanted
    to drive it for a week, but they said I would have to buy the whole(!) thing for
    50.000 bucks!  Can you believe that? They forced my to steal it!
  created: '2008-06-10 11:11:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Yes, Gravis - I'm sure if you'd spent hundreds of hours creating something
    you'd be quite happy to sell it for $5. That makes good commercial sense, especially
    if it isn't popular. Who wouldn't want to work for 1 cent an hour?\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2008-06-10 12:00:14'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: ">>\r\nYes, Gravis - I\u2019m sure if you\u2019d spent hundreds of hours creating
    something you\u2019d be quite happy to sell it for $5. That makes good commercial
    sense, especially if it isn\u2019t popular. Who wouldn\u2019t want to work for
    1 cent an hour?\r\n\r\nNick Cooke\r\n<<\r\n\r\nYes, Gravis has convinced me!\r\nMy
    new rate for Custom Truetype hinting is $0.25 / hour!\r\n\r\nJason C\r\n\r\n(just
    kidding, BTW)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-10 13:56:02'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I'm going to play devil's advocate, but before the dogpile gets too deep...\r\n\r\nThe
    Porche analogy is always fun, but alas, we're talking about physical objects vs.
    digital copies. The analogies can get problematic. It's the difference between
    shoplifting a book and photocopying pages of the book at the library for research.\r\n\r\nAs
    for spending hundreds of hours creating something and selling it for $5, there's
    definitely an argument for that if there's a mass market. It's not an hourly billing,
    but a product that can easily be resold many times. So, Gravis, if you're saying
    that a $5 price point would increase sales a thousand fold, perhaps there's some
    logic to that. But I'm guessing that's not the case*.\r\n\r\n* though that would
    be an interesting study...two equal typefaces different in form only...one sold
    for $5 one sold for $500...would the first outsell the latter more than 100 to
    1?"
  created: '2008-06-10 17:20:24'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>The Porche analogy is always fun, but alas, we\u2019re talking about
    physical objects vs. digital copies. </cite>\r\n\r\nSure, these are different
    things. I was just commenting on the \"I was forced to do it\", not on the type
    of goods. That's a different story discussed many times before on Typophile. "
  created: '2008-06-10 18:05:48'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Darrel, that is a problem that needs to be overcome. Fonts <em>must</em> be
    thought of as a tangible object.
  created: '2008-06-10 18:50:45'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"Thanks for the fonts\"? Not only was poor Gravis forced to steal, he was
    forced to be snide about it. Boo hoo. Yet another self-righteous teenager.   \r\n\r\nThere's
    no way that a single weight of any display font ever cost $480, much less $580.
    Single display fonts tend to cost between $10 and $30. And where does this mysterious
    markup come from? Why wouldn't you take the lower price, if it was ever quoted
    as such? There isn't a \"wholesale\" price that gets marked up by the only available
    outlet; it doesn't work that way. Forced to pay higher prices, too.  ;(\r\n\r\nHome
    users would probably be going to the popular font sites to make their purchases,
    if they were legitimately willing to pay at all. And once there, they would find
    a range of prices on a wide selection of products. Choices all around. \r\n\r\nThe
    entire thing is nonsense, and a weak excuse for file sharing. Whether it's music,
    fonts or other software, it's really just ignorance, entitlement and denial that
    keeps you from acknowledging the hard work that goes into any of these things."
  created: '2008-06-10 19:27:30'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<Cite> Fonts must be thought of as a tangible object. </cite>\r\n\r\nI am
    not sure. When Rhapsody or other similar services rents music instead of licensing
    it like iTunes does it's a different business model. Like renting a Hotel room.
    Then it's a service.  Certainly these is no equivalent that I know of in type
    today, but there might be and the possibility of the model existing makes me think
    that there really could be a variety of valid and ethical ways of thinking about
    the font business. \r\n\r\nI was very happy to buy the El ten Eleven (helvetica
    movie soundtrack) as a DRM free uncompressed FLAC file. The fact that they made
    it possible to do that endeared them to me. My loyalty to their 'Brand' is higher
    now.\r\n\r\nSo while I think Gravis' ideas about font licensing are sheer lunacy
    and delusion more or less, I do think that it absolutely behooves the industry
    think seriously about new flexibility in order better master the social and technological
    landscape - for straightforward business reasons. \r\n\r\nOf course this is high
    minded talk which short on substance. And I admit it."
  created: '2008-06-10 19:38:47'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Darrel, that is a problem that needs to be overcome. Fonts must be thought
    of as a tangible object.\"\r\n\r\nNo. That only harms and muddies the argument.
    IP concepts need to be understood and respected. That's the key.\r\n\r\nAs Eben
    hints at, Gravis' arguments are silly and easily dismissed. You don't want the
    industry's counter-arguments to be as silly and easily dismissed as his (the RIAA
    is a good example of fighting silly arguments with equally silly counter-arguments)"
  created: '2008-06-10 20:59:34'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "<em>There\u2019s no way that a single weight of any display font ever cost
    $480, much less $580.</em>\r\n\r\nIt sounds to me like Gravis found House Industries
    and wanted one font from a \"package.\" House Industries only sells it by the
    package.... hence the hefty price.\r\n\r\nGravis, many times when I've helped
    folks ID a typeface (that they only need for a few words) and they can't afford
    the type - they've asked me to set the type and send them a jpg. They are stealing
    and I'm still typesetting. It works. I'm sure there are others out there that
    have never minded giving a word or two or three out in graphic form to help someone.
    I've received many thank yous, a wedding invitation to a big to-do in Utah and
    folks that have now tried to help others. \r\n\r\nThe world still goes round."
  created: '2008-06-11 12:25:08'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "They may be infringing, but they are not \"stealing\".\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-11 19:26:21'
- author:
    name: nerys
    picture: 117864
  body: "Man it makes me sick when I hear people say \"its stealing\"\r\n\r\nfacts
    people. Facts. its not stealing. at the absolute worst its infringement.\r\n\r\nNot
    saying its not bad but its also NOT STEALING\r\n\r\nthere are very legitimate
    uses.\r\n\r\nMy bank sends my statements in PDF. I found out Acrobat lets me EDIT
    THEM. Wonderful! we run a small business and we are not doing it well. We are
    learning a lot about records keeping and the government is sternly educating us
    on what \"it\" wants (whatever happened to them working for us anyway)\r\n\r\nso
    the idea hit me like a sack of bricks. I can \"edit\" the PDF statement and add
    a description and category to each line of the statement! would save THOUSANDS
    of pages of paper and hundreds of hours in time to PRINT it annotate it and RESCAN
    IT.\r\n\r\nalas while it will let me edit it errors because its using a FONT I
    don't have on the computer. Well I do have that font its just called something
    \"different\" in the PDF.\r\n\r\nits called tte191c348t00 which is clearly not
    its original name.\r\n\r\nso I would like to EXTRACT that font so I can then annotate
    the line items in my statements as easily as click and type (other forms of annotation
    are a royal pain in the a...) especially when you have HUNDREDS of lines sometimes
    in one statement.\r\n\r\nSo far the only way to do it is with font forge but that
    requires me to install all kinds of other \"crap\" like cygwin\r\n\r\na nice easy
    way to rip the font from the pdf so the editor will use it as a system font IE
    let me annotate the lines.\r\n\r\nI would gladly use another font but it won't
    let me (no security on the file) it just wants me to use the same font but I have
    not found out how to CHANGE the font. heck I would change the font of the whole
    damned thing if I could.\r\n\r\nits NOT STEALING. at worst its infringement and
    in this case irrelevant infringement.\r\n\r\ncopyright has gone WAY too far. if
    you don't want to share something because someone can \"hack\" it your in the
    wrong damned business go find something else to do.\r\n\r\nI know all about \"copyright\"
    I am a photographer. As far as I am concerned if your not profiting from my work
    your not going to get too much grief from me.\r\n\r\ncopyright should also have
    NO force of law for anything non profit or non damaging.\r\n\r\nand DRM should
    be outlawed. its THEFT of Property plain and simple.\r\n\r\nwhen you apply DRM
    you are STEALING (real theft here) my rights to MY property.\r\n\r\nwhen I buy
    a book I OWN IT. its MINE to do with as I please. you own the IP rights \"I\"
    own the PHYSICAL rights to that book.\r\n\r\nDRM is theft of my physical property
    rights or PPR rights. It should be outlawed and companies fined heavily for attempting
    to use anything like it for purchased property."
  created: '2009-08-25 19:42:54'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: sweet rant
  created: '2009-08-25 19:56:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "http://fluff.info/blog/arch/00000151.htm\r\n\r\n\u201CTo revisit the original
    question, the socially optimal allocation of rights is exactly what intellectual
    property law is intended to do as well. Sure, IP law is artificial, but physical
    property law is equally artificial; we're just so used to it that we've forgotten.\u201D"
  created: '2009-08-25 20:03:38'
- author:
    name: nerys
    picture: 117864
  body: "\"\u201CDarrel, that is a problem that needs to be overcome. Fonts must be
    thought of as a tangible object.\u201D\"\r\n\r\nLet me show you how incorrect
    your analogy is\r\n\r\nYou have a bottle of rare PURE water (rare because pure
    water IS rare its usually got other stuff in it)\r\n\r\nthats 1 liter of a molecule
    made up of 2 hydrogen and 1 oxygen atom. thats it\r\n\r\nI \"duplicate\" those
    atoms of hydrogen and oxygen and now I have an identical bottle of water.\r\n\r\nyou
    still have YOUR bottle of water\r\n\r\nwhat did i steal?\r\n\r\nlets go further.
    I build a REPLICATOR like you see on star trek. I see a STEAK in acme I \"scan\"
    the steak. I don't open it or take it I just scan its atomic structure.\r\n\r\nI
    go home and press COPY on the replicator and out pops and identical steak the
    original STILL on the shelf at acme\r\n\r\nwhat have I stolen?\r\n\r\nyou say
    but but this is impossible.\r\n\r\nOK lets do the possible.\r\n\r\nI COPY a song
    from a CD. the original CD is still there. it has not changed or moved.\r\n\r\nI
    go home and hit copy\r\n\r\nwhat have I stolen?\r\n\r\njust like the other examples
    I have stolen absolutely nothing. NO THEFT HAS OCCURED.\r\n\r\nI have simply COPIED
    something.\r\n\r\nnow in our world we respect \"intellectual property\" rights.
    actually a misnomer since it applies the word property to something that is nothing
    of the sort but thats ok we just expand the definition of property to included
    the non physical.\r\n\r\nalas this changes nothing when something is COPIED.\r\n\r\nwhen
    you copy and use something OUTSIDE of the \"limited\" legal wishes of the original
    IP owner you are stealing NOTHING.\r\n\r\nyou are \"violating\" the rights of
    the original IP owner.\r\n\r\nthis is why its called copyright infringement. and
    not THEFT. because the people who coined these words had half a brain and realized
    there can be no \"theft\" here since there is nothing to actually STEAL.\r\n\r\nwell
    in a WAY there is. it is possible to \"kind of\" steal the original IP itself
    if I could for example convince the entire world that \"I\" wrote \"x\" song instead
    of Elvis Presley then you could say I \"stole\" the song.\r\n\r\notherwise its
    just infringement.\r\n\r\nalas the industry realizes that infringement of copyright
    is JUST not that big a deal (it leads to other things that ARE a big deal but
    more on that later)\r\n\r\nso they have tried to DEMONIZE infringement and incorrect
    attach the word THEFT to it since THEFT carries more \"moral weight\" on people
    than infringement does.\r\n\r\nthat's how we can get an insane 2 million dollar
    judgment against a mother for 24 songs downloaded off kazaa.\r\n\r\nThe trick
    is to find the REAL reason for all or this.\r\n\r\nits all about control. people
    wonder how can labels sue there own customers. well thats a logical flaw on our
    part. You make the false assumption that WE are the customers of the labels.\r\n\r\nahh
    things get interesting now. Once this becomes clear everything just falls into
    place.\r\n\r\nthe ARTISTS are the customers NOT US.\r\n\r\nwe are customers of
    the artists NOT the labels the labels are just proxies to the artists.\r\n\r\nStarting
    to make sense now?\r\n\r\nthe labels exist via there ABSOLUTE iron grip control
    of the artists. They control everything from store shelves to distribution to
    production to stadiums to advertising recording studio's and even radio stations.\r\n\r\nthe
    digital age namely the following technologies\r\n\r\nDigital Compressed Music
    (mp3)\r\nThe Internet\r\nPowerful Home computers\r\nCheap CD Duplication\r\n\r\nThe
    MP3 allows artists to handle distribution in combination with the internet\r\nThe
    internet also handles distribution storage and advertising affordably\r\nPowerful
    Home computers allow home studio's to become a reality.\r\n\r\nWith burnables
    and today mass produced stamped CD's an artists can sell you a CD for $5 and make
    20+ times more money than with a label. (average artists gets a \"nickel\" per
    cd with some of the bigger artists getting 20+ cents a pop)\r\n\r\nthese 4 things
    inevitable lead to one conclusions. LABELS BECOME LARGELY OBSOLETE and definitely
    OPTIONAL\r\n\r\nInteresting ehh?\r\n\r\nso by going after the MP3 and DEMONIZING
    \"downloadable\" music they protect the iron grip control and there position of
    need to artists.\r\n\r\nTHE ARTISTS are the victums err customers of the labels.
    have you READ some of the contracts artists have to sign? insanity.\r\n\r\nTHIS
    is why they demonize downloading (even though its a BOOM to artists its a DEATH
    NOTE for labels)\r\n\r\nSomething to think about."
  created: '2009-08-25 20:05:41'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: '...these are the voyages of the Starship Enterprise...'
  created: '2009-08-25 20:20:58'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Whether it's stealing or infringement, it's just <strong>wrong</strong>.
    \r\n\r\nIf you've ever started making a font you'll see that type design requires
    a whole lot of skill and patience. Duplicating software, fonts or music means
    that consumers aren't paying for the licence so the creators of that software,
    fonts or music lose money. Aren't they entitled to some payback for their creations?"
  created: '2009-08-25 20:26:33'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: .
  created: '2009-08-25 22:28:26'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Say you have a name that your parents gave you, and an address where you live,
    and a social security number issued to you by the government, and a couple of
    credit card number that you have been lent by the credit card companies. Say I
    copy them. You still have them. You are still you. What did I steal?
  created: '2009-08-25 23:53:26'
- author:
    name: kannibal
  body: You are able to extract fonts from PDF with [Link Removed by Moderator]
  created: '2010-03-20 12:11:07'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "kent said:\r\n>   Say you have a name that your parents gave you, \r\n>   and
    an address where you live, \r\n>   and a social security number issued to you
    \r\n>   by the government, \r\n>   and a couple of credit card number that you
    \r\n>   have been lent by the credit card companies. \r\n>   Say I copy them.
    You still have them. \r\n>   You are still you. What did I steal?\r\n\r\nnothing.\r\n\r\nyet...\r\n\r\nbut
    i might think about canceling the credit-card.\r\n\r\nor i might not.  because
    lots of copies of _that_\r\nare already floating around, including the one\r\nat
    the restaurant where i had dinner last night,\r\nand the gas station after that,
    and then the bar,\r\nnot to mention all the merchants who have the\r\nnumber stored
    on file.  but _you_, i worry about!      ;+)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-24 18:30:44'
- author:
    name: FelixGBC
  body: Very interesting method you have presented here. I am a graphic designer and
    I work mainly for auto industry. They use special fonts for every icon in the
    car. I had this problem a few months ago. At that time it was very little information
    about this subject online. After a lot of researching I have developed a procedure
    to extract any type of font embedded in any pdf file. I will present my method
    on my blog on http&#058;//pdffontextract.blogspot.com so people can use it and
    solve their problems. Glad to help you guys!
  created: '2011-05-04 10:42:00'
date: '2007-06-11 10:03:42'
title: PDF font extraction

---
