---
author:
  name: Bald Condensed
  picture: 110564
body: "I've started a series of articles on <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.be/\">Unzipped</a>
  about type design. These are intended to be an introduction, to explain to novices
  what type design is. In the <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.be/details.php?entry=161\">first
  episode</a>, I dwell a little on the motivation of designers to start on a new typeface.\r\n\r\n[[Peter
  Bilak]] reacted in an e-mail, and this comment had me particularly intrigued:\r\n\r\n<em>\u201C(...)
  to explore other motivations for designing type. I am sure there is more than craft/technology
  versus art. (...) I am wondering myself what are the motivations to create type,
  besides the two obvious ones: problem solving, and urge to express oneself artistically.
  I used peculiarities of language as inspiration for making Eureka and Greta. A new
  Typotheque project embraces entire typographic history as a single source of inspiration,
  so the result is poly-historical. But again, these are personal stands, and I am
  wondering what else can serve as inspiration; these are the issues I discuss with
  my students when they are starting their type projects.\"</em>\r\n\r\nSo I thought
  it would be interesting to post his question here and listen what other motivations
  might be a reason to start on a new type design."
comments:
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Except for the obvious reasons Peter Bilak stated, I think all reasons to
    do anything spring from an interest. And once past the point of passive interest,
    it's only a small step for curiousity and a self challenging attitude to get you
    started. It's also the best way to learn about something. For the professionals
    out there, hunger & the need to get food on the table might also be a good motivation
    ;-)
  created: '2007-06-11 00:54:40'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Not very insightful, I know, but it's late here & I'm only in the self challenging
    fase myself, so what the hell do I know? ;-)
  created: '2007-06-11 00:58:00'
- author:
    name: dsb
    picture: 111042
  body: "I am not a type designer, but as a graphic designer one of the reasons I
    am constantly looking for new typefaces is because as they are put out in the
    world and used they get associations attached to them. This of course can work
    for us in reinforcing the meaning\r\nthat we are trying to communicate. But because
    of this, we will also always be looking for a new way, to express a new idea.\r\n\r\nderek"
  created: '2007-06-11 01:10:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Besides the \"two obvious ones\" (which they are) there's a distinct third
    one in non-Latin type design: politics (if in the loose sense). Certainly not
    every non-Latin type designer thinks in those terms - in fact some try hard not
    to! But whenever you see something like Nour&Patria, or even something like a
    Hellenicized Latin (Carter's Skia; Michail Semoglu's work) you can safely assume
    there's some \"culture-clash\" undercurrent at work there.\r\n\r\nAnd then there's
    the \"ideological\" motivation, which is not as rare as one might suspect. Think
    of the 20th century's penchant for making type \"rational\" = sans. But think
    also of Legato, which embodies what Evert (and I as well to a good extent) thinks
    type <cite>should</cite> be, irrespective of sales, personal expression, etc.\r\n\r\nhhp"
  created: '2007-06-11 02:23:45'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I suppose two kinds of things:\r\n\r\n- Making the world of type more varied,
    more expressive, more complex, more compelling. In a word: Richer.\r\n- Making
    the type better for the reader. More 'ergonomic'.\r\n\r\nOf the two I think the
    second is the most important."
  created: '2007-06-11 05:37:38'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/love_4332.gif]'
  created: '2007-06-11 05:40:56'
- author:
    name: Kristian M
    picture: 111606
  body: A serious control issue!
  created: '2007-06-11 06:32:10'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "The concept of \"classic\" not as an object but as a relation.\r\nIndeed,
    it\u2019s not the apple (Newton\u2019s, but you may associate it to the computer
    tool as well) or the magic moment that matters much, it\u2019s the <a href=\"http://typophile.com/comment/reply/34183/206219\">work</a>
    before and after. Big thoughts are fun to romanticize, but it\u2019s many small
    insights coming together that bring big ideas into the world.\r\nIt\u2019s no
    accident that type designers study type.\r\nPart of the challenge of innovation
    is coming up with the problem to solve, not just its solution ; according to <a
    href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freeman_Dyson\">Dyson</a> <em>\u201Cit\u2019s
    very important to be idle... people who keeps themself busy all the time are generally
    not creative.\u201D</em>\r\nA typeface is like a fact, and a fact is like a sack\u2014\u2014it
    won\u2019t stand up till you\u2019ve put something in it. So, evolution in type
    design probably means only that what\u2019s on top is fit for the current environment,
    not that it\u2019s \u201Cbetter.\u201D"
  created: '2007-06-11 07:19:55'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: I thought there were two different motives. One is to make a type that looks
    new in any old environment in which it can be used, and the other is to make a
    type that looks old in any new environment in which it needs to be used. I'm not
    sure that ever changes, but I'd lke to hear more.
  created: '2007-06-11 11:44:10'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: I get the idea some people are confusing motivation with intent... The intent
    in itself can be mentioned as a motiovation perhaps, but all intentions of how
    the font will be used or in which environment are basically examples of intentions,
    not motivations in my view. It's about the choice of an environment (design) &
    an appropriate fontstyle (text, display, script,...). This originates from either
    a given job or a personal desire to create, but then the motivations are respectively
    "problem solving" and "the urge to express oneself artistically" as Peter Bilak
    stated.
  created: '2007-06-11 11:56:39'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: '@ Kris > best answer yet!'
  created: '2007-06-11 11:57:15'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "\"A serious control issue!\"\r\n\r\nHaha yes."
  created: '2007-06-11 14:28:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Kris, nice! You do have to love type. And not just to make it. I remember
    once on the ATypI list somebody was wondering why anybody would/should join that
    organization. My answer was: if love type. Some people didn't like that at all,
    strangely.\r\n\r\n> it\u2019s very important to be idle\r\n\r\nIn fact my own
    best ideas come when I'm walking my dog.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-11 14:42:39'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Long trainrides are also very inspiring (especially in the morning when you're
    still desperately trying to wake up before you get to work). Bedtime is also great
    for wandering off.\r\nAlways keep a notebook at hand!"
  created: '2007-06-11 14:53:39'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Kris. That's great! Both the idea & the execution.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-11 16:29:29'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "Almost all of the typefaces I have started (I have yet to see when I will
    <em>finish</em> one to my satisfaction) have come about by making custom type
    for some particular thing, and then later thinking \"perhaps I could make a whole
    face from that.\"\r\n\r\nBilak says \"problem solving\" but I would add \"puzzle
    solving\" and stress that they are different things. The former is in service
    of a need, a use; the latter is compulsive play. The initial concept of a typeface
    is an open-ended puzzle that begs to be solved just \"because it's there\"."
  created: '2007-06-11 19:42:34'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Motivation:\r\n\r\n1) A client asks for it\r\n2) A niche needs to be filled\r\n3)
    Jumping on the bandwagon of popular styles (money)\r\n4) A serif needs a sans,
    or a sans needs a serif\r\n5) Something (drawing, letterform, old metal typeface)
    is just so fucking cool it needs to be made into a typeface\r\n6) An existing
    typeface is almost there, either conceptually or aesthetically, but not quite.\r\n7)
    Love\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-06-12 00:45:42'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: I hate to repeat myself, but isn't the "open-ended puzzle" basically the desire
    to create something (the other obvious motivation)?
  created: '2007-06-12 01:07:23'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Arrogance and vanity. Possibly.\r\n\r\nAnd sex is often suggested as our
    motivation for everything. Design a typeface and get laid? Can't see it myself,
    but then I've never never been to a type conference. Do type designers get groupies?\r\n\r\nSorry.
    Not very helpful, I know."
  created: '2007-06-12 02:15:08'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "\"Arrogance and vanity. Possibly.\"\r\n\r\nYou have to be kidding! Type designers,
    like other loads of other people, can indeed be arrogant, but this is hardly a
    high-flying-gather-around-groupies-let-me-snort-coke-off-your-tits-while-watch-myself-in-the-mirror-flexing-my-muscles
    occupation. \r\n\r\nWhat is there to be arrogant about? My little letters! Ha!\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-06-12 02:25:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Kris, wanting to make something without anybody's\r\nhelp does have an element
    of egomania about it.\r\n\r\nSex: naming fonts after women is tellingly common...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-12 02:28:06'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: Kris, can you please not broadcast my lifestyle to the whole world? There
    are enough starry-eyed students wanting to claw their way to stardom in the type
    world without you giving them a free peek inside my limo.  ;)
  created: '2007-06-12 02:45:37'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "\"Kris, wanting to make something without anybody\u2019s\r\nhelp does have
    an element of egomania about it.\"\r\n\r\nTrue, but I always need help, & I have
    a few who's help is absolutely necessary. I would also argue that 90% of released
    typefaces these days should've had someone else's help, an editor at least.\r\n\r\n
    \"Kris, can you please not broadcast my lifestyle to the whole world?\"\r\n\r\nSorry
    bro! BTW, did you get that invite to Paris's release party? I'll get you in otherwise.\r\n\r\n\u2014K\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-12 02:50:47'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "<em>\"What is there to be arrogant about?\"</em>\r\n\r\nThinking your new
    typeface will be a worthwile addition to the world of typography.\r\n\r\nAnd obviously
    I don't mean just you Kris per se. I think your fonts are great. But then so must
    you, if only a little bit, even before they come into existence. I know I do and
    I've only ever completed one crappy square sans.\r\n\r\nAnd vanity. Well, there
    must be at least a small ego boost if the royalty cheques increase. It would be
    foolish to deny it, it is within us all, come, set it free and join us, the dark
    side awaits you... ahem... ok... I'll stop now.\r\n\r\nI only really posted my
    first comment because I thought it may provoke a reaction. Hook, line and sinker
    ;-p"
  created: '2007-06-12 03:24:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> 90% of released typefaces these days should\u2019ve had someone else\u2019s
    help\r\n\r\nBut do they?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-12 03:26:33'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "<em>\"I would also argue that 90% of released typefaces these days should\u2019ve
    had someone else\u2019s help, an editor at least.\"</em>\r\n\r\nThat's a lot of
    type designers who were arrogant enough to think they could do it alone."
  created: '2007-06-12 03:30:40'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "A typeface is an immortal extension of the type designers ego.\r\nDiscuss.\r\n\r\nOr
    do something worthwhile instead."
  created: '2007-06-12 03:36:51'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "\"Thinking your new typeface will be a worthwile addition to the world of
    typography.\"\r\n\r\nIs this arrogance or reality? Surely it is more arrogant
    to think that we have exhausted the limits of typeface design!\r\n\r\n\"And obviously
    I don\u2019t mean just you Kris per se. \u2026\"\r\n\r\nWell, perhaps. But my
    old man always told me that \"if you're going to do something, you might as well
    do it properly\".\r\n\r\n\"And vanity. Well, there must be at least a small ego
    boost if the royalty cheques increase.\"\r\n\r\nPerhaps more of a sense of relief
    that the bills can be paid. \r\n\r\n\"> 90% of released typefaces these days should\u2019ve
    had someone else\u2019s help\r\nBut do they?\"\r\n\r\nIf they have, then they
    are getting the wrong help!\r\n\r\n\"A typeface is an immortal extension of the
    type designers ego.\"\r\n\r\nHardly. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-12 04:03:46'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Arrogance and vanity. Possibly.</em>\r\n\r\nHmmm. You, know, George Orwell
    once wrote down what he considered the four motivations for writing, and numero
    uno on his list was...\r\n\r\n\"1. Sheer egoism. Desire to seem clever, to be
    talked about, to be remembered after death, to get your own back on grown-ups
    who snubbed you in childhood, etc. etc. It is humbug to pretend that this is not
    a motive, and a strong one. Writers share this characteristic with scientists,
    artists, politicians, lawyers, soldiers, successful businessmen -- in short, with
    the whole top crust of humanity.\"\r\n\r\nHe goes on to list the other motives:
    aesthetic enthusiasm, historical impulse and political purpose... in that order.
    And then he adds,\r\n\r\n\"It can be seen how these various impulses must war
    against one another, and how they must fluctuate from person to person and from
    time to time.\"\r\n\r\n(Taken from \"Why I Write,\" first published in 1946.)"
  created: '2007-06-12 05:36:47'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: Because I wanted to. And it is coming along. Hopefully within a month or so
    I will have something for you all to pick to pieces on the Critique forum.
  created: '2007-06-12 05:55:07'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: cuz i wanted something and it wasn't available digitally, so i had to make
    it.
  created: '2007-06-12 06:07:02'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: "When I was in design school, I noticed that designers took great pride in
    memorizing the names of types and type designers. I thought, what better way to
    become a famous designer than to design type!\r\n\r\nAs for motivation to design
    a new face \u2014 a new idea is enough for me. You can't think about type too
    much without coming up with new ideas. When you have a new idea, you can't help
    but draw it.\r\n\r\nNow, the motivations behind finishing a face: that's what
    I want to understand."
  created: '2007-06-12 07:37:52'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Ha ha, "cuz i wanted something" is great.
  created: '2007-06-12 08:11:52'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "> Now, the motivations behind finishing a face: that\u2019s what I want to
    understand.\r\n\r\nMe too... Without the help I -as well as 90% of the type designers
    out there apparantly- should get, I usually can't be bothered after having drawn
    it. The whole kerning part is so dreadful to me that I just can't get past the
    drawing point. But -as always- the most effective solutions are also the most
    simple ones. My solution to my problem: limiting myself to monospaced & connected
    script typefaces.\r\n\r\nAs for vanity: who here doesn't like to see their own
    letters on screen when typing?\r\n\r\nLast but not least: arrogance: it's just
    an extent of vanity.\r\nNone of us who would be here sharing our ideas if we weren't.
    The modest don't broadcast their ideas & designs."
  created: '2007-06-12 11:48:01'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I guess I just <em>like</em> drawing letters. I enjoy doing it, and I always
    have. Doesn't matter if it's built-up letters like in custom lettering, a typeface,
    just plain writing something by hand or even  something close to calligraphy.\r\n\r\nSince
    I never finished any of my attempts to design a typeface, I don't do it to get
    famous or that I want other people to use my fonts. Maybe in the future, when
    I have gained more experience in designing type, I might. But it's not my main
    motivation; it's more the drawing and next to that the digitizing of letters I
    like the most. "
  created: '2007-06-12 17:33:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> who here doesn\u2019t like to see their own letters on screen when typing?\r\n\r\nThis
    is actually a very interesting paradox, and one that some desginers never experience;
    some of them have even reacted a bit violently when I've suggested it myself:
    when you use a font, in a way you're violating it. Not because of some virginity
    envy, but because a font is really an abstract thing that's qualitatively greater
    than any instance of its usage.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, even though I do occasionally
    feel the above, I do also generally feel very good when I hit some keystrokes
    in a new font! And that's in fact the norm with type designers as far as I can
    tell.\r\n\r\n> The modest don\u2019t broadcast their ideas & designs.\r\n\r\nGenerally
    true, but not always. Think of Evert Bloemsma.\r\nHe was extremely modest, but
    intent on spreading his ideas,\r\nvia both discussion and design - just not as
    forcefully as some...  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-12 17:42:39'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Now, the motivations behind finishing a face: that\u2019s what I want
    to understand.</em>\r\n\r\n:-D  Nice, Christian!"
  created: '2007-06-12 17:48:28'
- author:
    name: Cesar Puertas
    picture: 110665
  body: "Because I believe in self-teaching. There's nothing like learning to make
    a typeface by actually making a new typeface! Another reason could be the feeling
    of self-challenge. At least in my country (Colombia) people feel very scared about
    designing and drawing type. It's like the calculus of graphic design. I've always
    loved challenges and the feeling of doing something difficult is \u2014for me\u2014,
    very motivating.\r\n\r\nC\xE9sar Puertas\r\ndise\xF1ador (tipo)gr\xE1fico"
  created: '2007-06-12 17:54:44'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "> Generally true, but not always. Think of Evert Bloemsma.\r\nHe was extremely
    modest, but intent on spreading his ideas,\r\nvia both discussion and design -
    just not as forcefully as some\u2026 :-)\r\n\r\nWell, to give you another paradox,
    I strongly believe modesty & pride can go hand in hand. It's a question of being
    able to objectively judge yourself which -I know- sounds like a complete contradiction.
    I can only speak for myself when I say I'm probably my best (or worse, depends
    on how you interprete it) criticist & I'm sure there are more people out there
    like me. Being your own judge has the adventage that you can take everything into
    account which is something an outsider can't do. You know where you're coming
    from, where you wanted to go (and your limits as to how far you can go at a certain
    point) & where you ended up & how you got there. So even a modest person can be
    openly proud when he has achieved something in his own best potential. This obviously
    often gets confused with arrogance, but for that I refer to a previous post of
    mine in this thread ;-)"
  created: '2007-06-12 18:25:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You make some good points, but I have to disagree about the \"you can take
    everything into account which is something an outsider can\u2019t do\" bit: humans
    have trouble seeing clearly when it's something very close to them. It's not possible
    to be an \"ideal\" self-critic; an outsider can't be an ideal one either... Which
    is why you need both!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-12 18:37:35'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "> It\u2019s not possible to be an \u201Cideal\u201D self-critic\r\n\r\nMaybe...
    All I know is that I'm the hardest one to please when it comes to my designs,
    but maybe that's because I'm just hanging with the wrong crowd? ;-p\r\nI have
    to admit though that I can never immediately judge my own work. Time is the final
    judge & if something survives its test (which at least takes more than a few months
    if not years in my case), I think it's pretty safe to say you've done a good job.
    Usually I'm displeased with something after a while, but that's because people
    evolve. And even in all my malcontent with a certain design, I can still tell
    if it's the best I could do at the time.\r\nEven my therapist (yes, I'm a mental
    case, didn't you notice? ;-p ) says I should try to be a little less hard on myself.
    She's obviously speaking in general terms, but I for one know it applies best
    to my work. I consider my work as something holy (yes, I am aware of how corny
    that sounds) & in that view I try my hardest to be a good \"believer\" & I consider
    self-flagellation part of that ;-)"
  created: '2007-06-12 18:56:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "We humans are social animals, and we all desire the positive regard of others.
    This factor of 'ego' or pride is an important motivator, and can take positive
    and negative forms. \r\n\r\nThe positive form of pride is that the person is aware
    of his or her gifts, and wants to use them to benefit others, and enjoy the process
    of doing the work. And they will enjoy the honor that comes from their contribution.
    \ \r\n\r\nEinstein put it beautifully when he wrote: \"The most important motive
    for work in the school and in life is the pleasure in work, pleasure in its result,
    and the knowledge of the value of the result to the community.\"\r\n\r\nThe negative
    form of pride is arrogance, when one tries to build one's self up by not listening
    to others, tearing them down and dominating them. \r\n\r\nAdded:\r\n\r\nTom, I
    think you are confusing criticism of one's own work and running one's self down
    as a person. On the latter many are their own worst enemies, yes, and that is
    no good. \r\n\r\nBut on criticism of one's own work, that it is rarely the case.
    First of all most people will be totally indifferent to your work, which is the
    worst criticism. Second, those with greater or even equal experience and expertise
    will see things you don't. \r\n\r\nI completely agree with Kris on the benefit
    of an outside editor, particularly when you are starting out. I certainly have
    followed that principle, and have recommended it to others. And I am delighted
    to see that with that with that additional input Kris is going 'from strength
    to strength' as a type designer. "
  created: '2007-06-12 19:07:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Ontological.\r\nMany mysteries rub shoulders in the shape of speech.\r\nI
    guess that would come under \"problem solving\"!"
  created: '2007-06-12 20:17:45'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "To me, the motivation the start and the stumbling block to finish a typeface
    are one and the same: the micro/macro nature of type design. There's nothing like
    exporting your little collection of micro creations and feasting your eyes on
    a big fat macro paragraph of text for the first time.  Exporting for the 1000th
    time to compare some rediculous detail is no where near as intoxicating as: [cue
    caveman voice] \"I have make font from nothing!\"\r\n\r\nThere's loads of other
    reasons, but for me, this was the hook."
  created: '2007-06-13 06:22:19'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Having a good name you don't want to let go to waste, but no font to give
    it to could be a good motivation ;-)
  created: '2007-06-22 17:56:12'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "Graffiti...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Farm1_5669.jpg]\r\n\r\n[Eduardo
    Recife's Downcome and Times New Roman]\r\n\r\n_________\r\nHiro"
  created: '2007-06-25 05:27:17'
date: '2007-06-11 00:20:28'
node_type: forum
title: What's your motivation to start designing a new typeface?

---
