---
author:
  name: Nick Job
  picture: 110778
body: "Much water has passed under the bridge since last Monday's London 2012 Olympics
  brand launch. I was quite surprised that no-one (well, only Tom Howe and belleisle
  made any reference to it) has really given the 2012 font any constructive criticism.\r\n\r\nI
  think only belleisle commented, which probably says a great deal more about the
  controversial nature of the marque itself than of the choice of supporting typeface
  which was perhaps a secondary issue in most people's minds:\r\n\r\n>>>The corporate
  typeface they have designed is just as bad, but in my anger I don\u2019t have the
  will to address that yet.\r\n\r\nHave you had a chance to chill yet? If you're anything
  like me, you're worryingly starting to like the marque, but you're annoyed that
  you do because, for wahatever reason, you feel like you really shouldn't and have
  been coaxed and lulled into it against your will because it's not fair that something
  that breaks so many rules (if rules really exist when it comes to design) can actually
  force its way into you affections, of which you were sure you were in control. And
  this is only a week on. And it scares you how much you may come to adore it because
  your heart tells you that, in an ideal world, love should be at first sight, not
  at the last. You argue that you only like it because you feel pity for it but then
  you remember that someone got paid a fortune for doing it and why should you feel
  sorry for a massive branding agency who have learned to tell people how to think,
  and always turn out to be right in the long run. And so you're eventually left with
  only one possibility: You love it because it is rather fine design. And then you
  will insist that you still hate it (because you think that it would be fickle to
  admit that you've changed your mind in less than a week). Admit it.\r\n\r\nAnyway
  back to the font, here's a capture from the official website.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2012_6027.png]\r\n\r\nGet
  used to it, you're going to be seeing quite a bit of it in the next few months and
  years.\r\n\r\nAnyone know what it is (Acrobat tells me it's '2012_BoldSIX') and
  who designed it? I find the circular O's and o's a bit irritating. I think the font
  (and the logo for that matter) may be patronising in this context. I'm not sure
  you engage young people by being condescending to give them a look they can 'identify
  with'. Doesn't wash. It might succeed in making old people feel young again but
  that's because old people aren't as smart as young people.\r\n\r\nYes that really
  is an fi ligature lurking in there.\r\n\r\nI'm guessing the brief was to get it
  to complement/echo the marque, jagged and contemporary but having to include/shoehorn
  in the classical circular rings somehow. Clumsy I'd say, but they got paid for their
  font which is more than I've ever done.\r\n\r\nAnyone know any classic fonts that
  are patently British with circular O's? Hmmm."
comments:
- author:
    name: Lakeis-spammer
  body: "One of the majorities\u2019s developed & popular spaces are Singapore. Living
    & working there would exist dream come up to true for any person. \r\n<a rel=\"dofollow\"
    href=\"http://www.carlinhall.co.uk/\" rel=\"nofollow\">http://www.carlinhall.co.uk/</a>\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-28 09:53:40'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: It's amazing, while the typeface is all slant, the o seems to be a roman style.
  created: '2007-06-11 13:13:19'
- author:
    name: sihep
    picture: 112339
  body: "I\u2019d imagine the circular 'O' was supposed to be a reference to the 5
    hoops in the olympic logo. Don't feel it works that well, though."
  created: '2007-06-11 14:02:32'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: It hurts to read a long paragraph in this font. It doesn't flow well enough.
    The whole thing seems really rushed.
  created: '2007-06-11 14:25:46'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Have you had a chance to chill yet? If you\u2019re anything like me, you\u2019re
    worryingly starting to like the marque, but you\u2019re annoyed that you do because,
    for wahatever reason, you feel like you really shouldn\u2019t and have been coaxed
    and lulled into it against your will because it\u2019s not fair that something
    that breaks so many rules (if rules really exist when it comes to design) can
    actually force its way into you affections, of which you were sure you were in
    control.\"\r\n\r\nReminds me this Statler & Waldorf bit:\r\n\r\nSTATLER: Boo!\r\nWALDORF:
    Boooo!\r\nS: That was the worst thing I\u2019ve ever heard!\r\nW: It was terrible!\r\nS:
    Horrendous!\r\nW: Well it wasn\u2019t that bad.\r\nS: Oh, yeah?\r\nW: Well, there
    were parts of it I liked!\r\nS: Well, I liked alot of it.\r\nW: Yeah, it was GOOD
    actually.\r\nS: It was great!\r\nW: It was wonderful!\r\nS: Yeah, bravo!\r\nW:
    More!\r\nS: More!\r\nW: More!\r\nS: More!\r\n\r\n\r\nAs for the typeface, not
    sure if it was intended or not, but it does have a bit of an 'ancient Greece'
    vibe to it."
  created: '2007-06-11 14:38:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I like the font! Novel, dynamic and edgy.\r\nAnd it seems to have been made
    by an actual type designer.\r\nMaybe it was Miles?\r\n\r\nI agree that the \"o\"
    is a bit jarring, although not as much as I might have thought before seeing it
    in a setting. BTW, Gill Sans has a very circular \"o\", and it's hard to get more
    British than that!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-11 14:50:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: ">>>Gill Sans has a very circular \u201Co\u201D, and it\u2019s hard to get
    more British than that!\r\n\r\nAfter nearly 75 years, someone's decided it's past
    it. Not before Greece used it for 2004 though. Good enough to use twice in a row?
    I would have thought so."
  created: '2007-06-11 14:55:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The font, like the mark, is inappropriate. It is trying too hard to get attention,
    screaming for attention. The whole thing is like an ad for a children's television
    program, or for candy for children, and that's not the Olympics. \r\n\r\nThe Olympics
    is big fun, but there is also a sense of history and grandeur about it. A great
    mark and the typography combined will get both joy and grandeur. The multi-colored
    rings do succeed at that. There is an aura about the Olympics, the 'Olympic Spirit'.
    Both this mark and its typography totally miss out on it.  \r\n\r\nIt is as if
    the designer thought dignity and respect for the hard work of the athletes, and
    the celebration of multi-national cooperation is 'not cool' and should be avoided.
    \r\n\r\nI think that is the reason for the anger. If you think the concept of
    the Olympic spirit is horsesh*t, that is your privilege. But to do a mark that
    contradicts the positive emotional meaning of the Olympics is bad design, and
    a huge missed opportunity.     \r\n\r\nBy comparison, look at the Olympic logo
    of the upcoming Chinese Olympics:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/OlympicLogoChina_4101.gif]\r\n.\r\nIt
    manages to have dynamism and a sense of fun, but gets in both the reference to
    history, the Chinese location--by using the Chinese 'seal' style logo and brush
    writing of the words--and a sense of dignity given by the symmetry and the 'foundation'
    position of the multicolored rings. There may be better Olympic symbols, I don't
    know, but this is quite well done. "
  created: '2007-06-11 15:09:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think you have to remember that this is in Britain: they're always up to
    their nostrils in \"grandeur\", \"dignity\", etc. They need a break - to loosen
    up a bit! And preferably via something not involving alcohol...\r\n\r\nBTW, I
    loved the Chinese one too - but Keith Tam insists it's weak.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-11 15:33:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://typophile.com/node/809\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-11 15:44:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Keith Tam insists it\u2019s weak.\r\n\r\nThe design as a whole does have
    some weaknesses. It is a bit staid, and the brush lettering is slightly awkward
    as Roman. But the running man is brilliant. And now I read that it also reads
    'jing,' 'capital' in Chinese, alluding to the location Bei Jing (literally, 'northern
    capital'), so that is awfully clever as well, making the mark multilingual. The
    three parts, which work on their own and together, are also very nice. \r\n\r\nMaybe
    if you read Chinese the running man as character to be read looks forced; I'm
    afraid I'm blind to that dimension of the design. "
  created: '2007-06-11 15:59:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the running man is brilliant.\r\n\r\nI thought so too - but Keith's complaint\r\nwas
    actually specifically about that, IIRC.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-11 16:50:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">specifically about that\r\n\r\nI suspect than that Keith Tam's issue may,
    as I noted, be how it 'reads' as the Chinese character 'jing'--which is beyond
    those of us who don't read Chinese characters.  "
  created: '2007-06-11 16:55:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sure, but good design does not leverage ignorance.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-11 17:05:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Here's what I was able to find on line of early Chinese criticism of the
    2008 logo:\r\n\r\n\"many Chinese gave voice to their disapproval on-line, saying
    that it was: too much Beijing-centered (!); it was offensive because it resembled
    a kneeling man with a hat on his head begging; that it looked like a spastic thumbprint,
    a soggy penis and so forth.\"\r\n\r\nNow there are articles saying the London
    logo is making most Chinese very happy with their own. That is government-controlled
    press, though.  "
  created: '2007-06-11 17:31:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> government-controlled press, though.\r\n\r\nYeah, we're so lucky to instead
    have a press\r\ncontrolled by a suffocating plutocracy...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-11 17:39:21'
- author:
    name: Jon Sleeman
    picture: 110746
  body: "Back to the font. \r\n\r\nI think its awesome!! Modern, with loads of character
    and impact.\r\n\r\nMaybe the 'o' is a reference to the olympic rings, which I
    think would be quite cool.\r\n\r\nStill not sure about the logo, but time will
    be the ultimate judge."
  created: '2007-06-11 17:50:06'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: Is there a problem with the lc t? It seems to have one ink well (is there
    a better term now that we are using digital type?) where the right arm meets the
    stem.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Jon Sleeman
      picture: 110746
    body: Seems very odd, maybe its the screen or a technical thing that I'm not aware
      of. I've just looked at a printed verson from a newpaper and its visible on
      that also.
    created: '2007-06-11 18:03:04'
  created: '2007-06-11 17:55:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\"Trap\" is a good term, but that can't be what that is.\r\nFor one thing,
    it's on the corner that needs it least...\r\nMaybe it's to make it less like a
    cross? Especially with\r\nit being in England...\r\n\r\nAre there any better/comprehensive
    samples out there?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-11 18:07:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hey, on their site, including the \"make your own\" PDF* the \"t\" is fine...\r\nAnd
    the PDF is showing an \"fi\" ligature, as opposed to the image above.\r\n\r\n*
    \r\nhttp://www.london2012.com/joinin/create/design-template-london2012com.pdf\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-11 18:14:29'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "Just been to their website and the two words using their font have better
    t's.\r\n\r\nBTW: \"Trap\" means something else in my little world of printing.\r\n\r\n[edit:
    Hrant, you got there ahead of me ;_) I should have been typing faster.]"
  created: '2007-06-11 18:16:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, in fact in that PDF the crossbar of the \"t\" is actually tilted, whereas
    it's flat in the image above... But the text is the same, so I assume Nick made
    his image by doing a screengrab of a similar PDF... So I think it seems safe to
    say that the font is not really finished yet - in fact it seems to be changing
    real-time!\r\n\r\n> \u201CTrap\u201D means something else in my little world of
    printing.\r\n\r\nYes, I know. As I observed recently in another\r\nthread, terminology
    depends heavily on context.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-11 18:21:41'
- author:
    name: belleisle
  body: "Blimey Nick, just what the design forums needed a thread about the Olympic
    Logo, I was hoping to get some work done this week!\r\n\r\nBut seriously...\r\n\r\nOne
    week on, a couple of interesting points that I have read.\r\n1. Someone, somewhere
    commented about how, if the logo had been designed by a competition amongest schoolchildren
    we would all be loving it. Fair point.\r\n2. If the Muinch 72 logo had been proposed
    would there have been the same outcry.\r\nIn my opinion no, Munich72 has all the
    qualities that make a good logo. Namely a basic sense of balance and proportion
    etc etc. The general public subconsciously appreciate good asethetics when they
    see it. (the ipod?)\r\n3. The design was a closed brief at WO that included only
    10 people producing he work!\r\nCan't help think they should have asked a few
    more professionals for an opinion on such a grand project.\r\n\r\nAs for the typeface....
    not for me. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/munich1972_3521.jpg]"
  created: '2007-06-11 19:26:59'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Can\u2019t help think they should have asked a few more professionals for
    an opinion\"\r\n\r\nYou think MORE opinions would have made a project on the scale
    of the Olympics logo go smoother? ;o)"
  created: '2007-06-11 20:18:15'
- author:
    name: belleisle
  body: "I know your joking...\r\n\r\nI meant before it was made public, so various
    people would'nt have have to lose face by changing it. To many egos involved now,
    we are stuck with it.\r\n\r\nI mean ten people working in a closed environment
    on a project this scale, they would have pumped themselves up into such a design
    frenzy of self congratulation that they would have reckoned on 'having a go' at
    that outdated Sistine chapel next."
  created: '2007-06-11 21:02:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The Munich font sucks.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-11 21:13:59'
- author:
    name: miles
    picture: 110468
  body: can't believe no-one has identified the font use for the 20-12 yet.
  created: '2007-06-11 22:58:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You mean \"got\" as in understood, or got a copy of?  :-)\r\nIf it's the
    former: Is it a person running?\r\n\r\nSo is it your work Miles?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-11 23:00:55'
- author:
    name: miles
    picture: 110468
  body: "NOT ME!\r\nedited my post for clarity."
  created: '2007-06-11 23:02:46'
- author:
    name: Ralph
    picture: 112600
  body: A terrible font. Reminds me of antedeluvian Viking runes.
  created: '2007-06-12 10:03:55'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Careful, or a man wearing a very large helmet with horns sticking out of it
    will complain about being discriminated against....  ;-)
  created: '2007-06-12 19:23:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I love those Geico \"caveman\" commercials!\r\n\r\nBTW, Miles is telling
    me this is based on the work of a certain\r\nfamous 20th century architect...
    But I won't say who, since\r\nhe seems intent on keeping your gears spinning.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-12 19:31:07'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Tell us !\r\nDid Lord Sebastian Coe run a FontLab script ?"
  created: '2007-06-12 21:06:55'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "From:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/magazine/6719805.stm\r\n\r\n\"THE
    WORD 'LONDON' & OLYMPIC RINGS\r\nThe designers deliberately avoided using sporting
    images or pictures of London landmarks. Instead the capital city's name is written
    in lower case.\r\n\r\nThe objective in resisting an iconic image was to emphasise
    that while the Games is hosted in London, it is not just for London, but also
    for the UK and for the world.\r\n\r\nPutting London in lower case and in cartoon
    writing is a \"disgrace\" to the city, says Mr Autry, and there's an imbalance
    in having the word London and the Olympic rings both in the top half of the logo.\r\n\r\n\"The
    word London is in an inelegant font, which devalues London as a city,\" he adds.
    \"It looks like a child's writing.\"\r\n\r\nThe font is called 2012bold and has
    been designed specifically, says corporate graphic designer Simon Murray.\r\n\r\n\"The
    style of a handwritten font helps to carry through the contemporary theme. It
    is quite refreshing that they have used a font that is completely unrelated to
    the standard Johnston typeface used on tube maps and generally associated with
    London.\""
  created: '2007-06-12 23:22:14'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "I'm not bothered about the crap 2012 identity now that I've finally realised
    the obvious...\r\n\r\n...it's going to be 'consumed' by sports fans. Rarely the
    best arbiters of good taste."
  created: '2007-06-13 12:22:28'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "http://www.g3l.com/b3ta/olympiclogo.gif\r\n\r\ncourtesy of another type forum
    I love to hang out in!"
  created: '2007-06-13 15:26:06'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Brilliant, Jackie, utterly brilliant.\r\n\r\nWrong colours though....  ;-) "
  created: '2007-06-13 16:00:43'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "I think the swastika parody is \r\nkinda lame, don't you think?\r\n\r\nI
    would rather see the 2012 incorporated into a WHAM LP."
  created: '2007-06-13 16:31:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Especially since it involves the UK, a deeply pro-Jewish society.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-13 16:43:29'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: My first impression is that the type is an ugly mess. That said, in the hands
    of a skilled designer, ugly type can create a very strong brand. I'm looking forward
    to seeing how it's used. The results could be great. -- R
  created: '2007-06-13 18:36:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">ugly mess. ...The results could be great.\r\n\r\nThis reminds me of the
    story of a drunk Winston Churchill, who encountered a lady on the street. \r\n\r\n\"You,
    sir, are very, very drunk.\"\r\n\r\n\"And you, madame are very, very ugly. I shall
    be sober in the morning.\" \r\n\r\nSomehow I don't think this one is going to
    be better in the morning :) "
  created: '2007-06-13 18:48:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u201CCan\u2019t help think they should have asked a few more professionals
    for an opinion\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nRight, a focus group of professionals is always
    a good idea.\r\nEspecially if you have something expensive that doctors or lawyers
    might buy."
  created: '2007-06-13 21:56:24'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "> ugly type can create a very strong brand.\r\n\r\nSounds clever. Can\u2019t
    think of an example, though. Great quote anyhow. "
  created: '2007-06-14 00:47:28'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: I have always thought the Westinghouse logotype was ugly in a good way (especially
    the "sting") [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Westinghouse_logo_BLK_6195.jpg]
  created: '2007-06-14 01:36:35'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: As I understand it the london 2012 font is going to be more than just a logotype.
  created: '2007-06-14 01:54:53'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Sounds clever. Can\u2019t think of an example, though.\"\r\n\r\nEasy companies?
    \r\n\r\nhttp://www.easyeverything.com/"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Jan
      picture: 112311
    body: "You don\u2019t like Cooper Black?"
    created: '2007-06-14 16:00:33'
  created: '2007-06-14 14:46:48'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "\"As I understand it the london 2012 font is going to be more than just a
    logotype.\"\r\n\r\nI think the Westinghouse logotype was developed into a typeface."
  children:
  - author:
      name: WeAreLoa
      picture: 128775
    body: The Westinghouse logo was developed into a face. Westinghouse Gothic. I
      have a pic somewhere...
    created: '2007-06-15 05:10:08'
  created: '2007-06-14 16:18:14'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "<em>Ugly type can create a very strong brand.\r\n- - -\r\nSounds clever.
    Can\u2019t think of an example, though.</em>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/citi_6299.jpg]\r\nalso
    these guys make very funky type look good (the link is the best sample I could
    find of the type, but I mean the ad series):\r\nhttp://www.newzealand.com/northamerica/\r\nIt
    helps that it is a beautiful country.\r\n\r\nLets not derail.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-15 06:21:32'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "Well more water has passed under the bridge, but it <em>seems</em> that this
    font has been identified as '2012 Headline' by Gareth Hague:\r\n\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/WhatTheFont/forum/case/189656/"
  created: '2009-06-12 19:18:41'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "also:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.london2012.com/documents/brand-guidelines/guide-to-protected-games-marks.pdf"
  created: '2009-06-12 19:23:02'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "Wow, the audacity of using cyan on white text for the official corporate
    design guide just speaks volumes...\r\n\r\nOr maybe this is supposed to be printed
    on black paper? But even if that's the case, the actual paper color should have
    been set, which is very easily done in InDesign (the PDF's meta data says \"xap:CreatorTool:
    Adobe InDesign CS2 (4.0)\")."
  created: '2009-06-13 17:42:48'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "That paralympics lion logo is pretty badassed. Can\u2019t say much for the
    rest of it."
  created: '2009-06-13 18:38:12'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: anyone know of any fonts with a similar feel?
  created: '2009-06-16 22:39:57'
- author:
    name: schui
    picture: 113755
  body: "I think the scriptek italic has a slighty similar look. not much, but it's
    something.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/scriptek_4941.png]"
  created: '2009-06-17 03:08:36'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I bet there\u2019s a knockoff on the market before the end of 2009."
  created: '2009-06-17 03:19:16'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: James, If i wanted a knockoff, I'm sure i could make one. That's not what
    i'm looking for. I don't intend to tread on the toes of the Olympics organization.
  created: '2009-06-17 19:35:14'
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: "It reminds me of a cleaner version of Emigre's Elektrix\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/emigre/elektrix/\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-17 21:00:38'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Cyrus Highsmith's [[http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/OccupantGothic|Occupant
    Gothic]] italic shares some characteristics.
  created: '2009-06-18 01:04:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Compare and contrast:\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/hubertjocham/keks/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-07 18:31:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"anyone know of any fonts with a similar feel?\"\r\n\r\nPaul,\r\nThis is
    not the same casual feel but here is an angular sans italic i did 4 years ago.
    I only did the lower case. It is one of the many projects I have on the back burner.
    It is called \"Dez Sans Script\"\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DezSansScript-2006_6383.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-11-08 01:37:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Chris, except for the name I like it!  :-)\r\n\r\nWhat I find extra interesting
    about the London 2012 font, Keks and Klute* is that the letterforms are leaning
    forward due to <em>rotation</em>, not [just] skew. This is a flavor of \"movement\"
    almost never seen in type.\r\n\r\n* http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/fw-alias/klute/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-08 01:50:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, Hrant \r\nBut you know I can't let a pun go easily.  :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-11-08 01:56:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Klute is really good!\r\nMuch better than the London Olympics face.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-11-08 01:58:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hey, wait a second: Klute is by Gareth Hague!! Same guy!\r\nSo the origin
    of the London 2012 stuff goes back to 1997.\r\n\r\nAnd compare the numerals in
    Klute to the logo...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-08 02:28:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hrant,\r\nI thought that was why you posted the link? Yes, it is the same
    guy.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-11-09 14:43:37'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "@hrant\r\n\r\nyes, i saw Keks and actually prefer it to the 2012 font. i
    recommended it to my friend who was looking for something in the same vein."
  created: '2009-11-10 19:29:44'
date: '2007-06-11 12:30:06'
node_type: forum
title: London 2012 font

---
