---
author:
  name: baker st
body: "What are your feelings on stretching type?\r\n(realising I may be shot for
  saying it)\r\nI've always been told by graphic design puritans, that it's a no-no,
  and tried to follow these rules in my own work.  I see a lot of stretching, embossing,
  drop shadows various 'filter effects' in my neck of the woods, which makes me cringe,
  or am I being too harsh? "
comments:
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Big no-no!!!\r\nI have seen my share of similar aggrevations over the year
    & I think the problem is that graphic design is probably the field where most
    amateurs work. Eg. my ex-boss ussed to do a lot of stretching as well, but I think
    that lied in his more technical oldschool handset \"cut & pasterie\" printing
    background. These people were taken by surprise by the digital era of graphic
    design & propably thrilled to be able to easily stretch of font to fit some space.
    The other problem is that too many people out there consider themselves lucky
    & make their own logo in Word using WordArt... I've actually seen logo's made
    in Exell, go figure.\r\nFor people who grew up in the digital era it's probably
    a lot easier to take (dis*)advantage of the technology. For certain projects I
    was even professionally obliged to use as manyy filters, embosses, shadows & all
    that crap as possible, because the client wanted it to look \"classy\". People
    don't appreciate simplicity anymore. Too much choice leads to more bad decisions.
    That's the burden of consequence.\r\nYou might want to read this thread: http://typophile.com/node/32874\r\n\r\n*
    depending on who's doing what"
  created: '2007-06-12 10:40:45'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "Big go ahead (if you know what you are doing!)\r\nSome faces can take the
    stretching and compressing better than others, see for instance here: http://www.gerardunger.com/allmytypedesigns/allmytypedesigns20.html\r\nTo
    do stretching the face must be:\r\n\r\n\u2014Sans serif\r\n\u2014Have a dynamic
    stroke\r\n\u2014Have a low contrast"
  created: '2007-06-12 11:45:28'
- author:
    name: baker st
  body: "Interesting to see the opposing responses.  I have to say though, I'm deffinitley
    more inclined to lean towards the classic treatment of type.  Not to say I'm incapable
    of pushing the boat out for a fresh modern solution; it's simply the fear of,
    if we have full digital control over typographic manipulation, where should we
    draw the line?\r\n If a font has to be stretched in order to fit, was it the right
    choice in the first place?  During my time in college, a visiting lecturer looked
    over my shoulder as I was stretching type vertically on screen to fit a poster;
    he's still alive, but I remember most of the blood leaving his face at the time.
    \ He deffinitley knew his stuff, so from that point on, I was more careful in
    my treatment.\r\nTo Clauses, I don't profess to be a master typographer or anything
    so it's good to see your point of view"
  created: '2007-06-12 12:59:28'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: 'If you look in Bringhurst, <em>The Elements of Typographic Style</em>, you
    can read in the section on the methods of justification: "In this book, for example,
    the justification engine has been permitted to [...] adjust the width of individual
    characters by [plus or minus] 2%." That is stretching. '
  children:
  - author:
      name: baker st
    body: Michel, that's new to me.  So a very subtle stretching of the type is acceptable
      when justifing text? What is this method usually intended for?
    created: '2007-06-12 13:35:40'
  created: '2007-06-12 13:25:48'
- author:
    name: baker st
  body: Oh, and do you think it's a good/bad idea to a refer a client to a design
    archive site like AIGA; with the intention of demonstrating to them how the likes
    of visual hierarchy and appreciation for proper layout can lead to superior, award
    winning design?
  created: '2007-06-12 13:27:20'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>I think the problem is that graphic design is probably the field where
    most amateurs work.</cite> - Hear Hear\r\n\r\nWorking in a small office, I see
    type butchered on a regular basis. It's difficult to watch and not say anything,
    but I don't have control over all the reports/presentations. My services are available,
    but I'm not always available. So, a lot of the amateurs designers are taking things
    into their own hands and doing what NEEDS to be done. Their tools are primitive
    and their knowledge about what's right and wrong is limited. They stretch and
    smush and cram and drag as needed. It's not because they think that's aesthetically
    pleasing, it's because that's what they need to do when using the software available.
    \r\n\r\nHave you ever tried to typeset in Word, it's not easy. You need to have
    an intimate knowledge of the program, knowing where all the little inputs to manipulate
    line spacing, letter spacing, tracking, kerning and even tabulation. It's not
    suited for the novice user and if you don't know what to look for, you're not
    going to look for it. So manipulating text to \"fit\" happens quite often here
    and I suspect in a lot of other arenas as well.\r\n\r\nMy beliefs are, as a true
    breed designer, you should never have to manipulate type beyond it's capabilities.
    You should know and understand if you do, and it should be a choice not a necessity
    to break these rules. We have superior tools that give us the ability to make
    this choice daily and as cliche as this sounds, with great power comes greater
    responsibility. David Carson didn't do what he did because he had too, he did
    it because he wanted to and he stood behind his choices. \r\n\r\nIn the meantime,
    if you need to stretch type, hold down that Shift key and stretch away. \r\n\r\n<em>sorry
    for the wall of text</em>"
  created: '2007-06-12 13:46:58'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: '(@baker st) I am not competent to answer. The question of justification methods
    is "low level" (this is the word we use in computer science, where I belong).
    Design is "high level". What happens is that people that work at the "high level"
    don''t realize that the tools they use sometimes do (at the "low level") things
    they are told not to do. '
  created: '2007-06-12 13:49:02'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>What is this method usually intended for? [baker st]</cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    is used to avoid large interword blanks when the text is right adjusted. It is
    also possible to vary intercharacter spacing up to a fixed percentage chosen by
    the user."
  created: '2007-06-12 14:05:54'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>I see a lot of stretching, embossing, drop shadows various \u2018filter
    effects\u2019 in my neck of the woods...</em>\r\n\r\nIt's one thing to stretch,
    i.e., expand or compress type, and another thing to emboss, use a drop shadow,
    or apply filters...\r\n\r\nThe main problem with expanding or compressing type
    in a page layout program is that it can distort \"the proportion of the letters,
    forcing heavy elements to become thin, and thin elements to become thick.\" (Ellen
    Lupton <em>dixit</em>, in <em>Thinking with Type</em>.) This is why it is always
    better to use an expanded, condensed or compressed version of a typeface, if it
    is available, because the type designer will redraw the shapes to keep proportions
    looking the way they should. (I remember one of my design professors grimacing
    at the idea that phototypesetting allowed you to compress a face like Garamond).\r\n\r\nAdding
    a drop shadow, on the other hand, does not deform a lettershape, and in some situations
    a drop shadow can be useful."
  created: '2007-06-12 14:15:50'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Have you ever tried to typeset in Word, it\u2019s not easy.</em>\r\n\r\nHear,
    hear, Asvetic! We could trade horror stories about that over drinks sometime.
    \ :-)"
  created: '2007-06-12 14:19:29'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "my own experience leads me this way: learn the fundamentals first.\r\n\r\nfor
    instance, i do not allow my first and second semester students to distort type
    in any way. no stretching, no filters, etc. i make them study the hand drawings
    of designers such as goudy to really learn to appreciate the care and consideration
    that went into the formation of the relationships in a typeface. this always causes
    groans and complaints of \"stifling creativity.\" but i tell them, \"tough.\"\r\n\r\nin
    the third semester or higher, i open the doors, but i call them on type distortion
    every time i see it, and make them justify why they chose that direction. more
    often than not, when they try to explain the reasoning, they come to their own
    conclusion that the distortion was unnecessary and go back to revise the work.
    \ \"if you want your type to be wide like that, why didn't you choose an extended
    face? in a face <em>designed </em> to be extended, the relationships of stroke,
    balance, etc. have been thoughtfully considered and factored into the face, whereas
    you throw all those relationships out the window by taking Impact and stretching
    in to 158%...\"\r\n\r\nin other words, until a designer understands the basics
    of typography, i don't believe they should mess with the cosmos.  it just can't
    really be done intelligently without the understanding.\r\n\r\na good example
    would be picasso's work: his early drawing a painting was realistic, well proportioned
    and figurative. it wasn't until he understood the fundamentals of form, proportion,
    etc. that he was able to <em> intelligently </em> abstract them."
  created: '2007-06-12 14:27:34'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>If you look in Gringhurst,</em>\r\n\r\nMichael, is he any relation to
    Bringhurst, who wrote a book of the same title?  Just curious....\r\n\r\n<em>a
    good example would be picasso\u2019s work: his early drawing a painting was realistic,
    well proportioned and figurative. it wasn\u2019t until he understood the fundamentals
    of form, proportion, etc. that he was able to intelligently abstract them.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    think you are absolutely on the right track, Chuck: until you absorb the structures
    in whatever design medium you practice (from painting to writing), you rarely
    have a basis from which to depart from them.  \r\n\r\nThat being said, I've seen
    exceptions -- it's always the exceptions that prove a rule, right? -- from people
    who haven't been beaten into creative submission with \"you can't do that\" from
    their alleged superiors.  \r\n\r\nUnfortunately, many of today's students think
    they are the exceptions, when, in fact, they aren't....  :-("
  created: '2007-06-12 14:35:47'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>Hear, hear, Asvetic! We could trade horror stories about that over
    drinks sometime. :-)</cite>\r\n\r\nIt's enough to make a man drink, that's for
    damned sure! "
  created: '2007-06-12 14:40:09'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: I have had lots of clients who have used Word as their page layout program
    -- it's one reason why they are ex-clients....  :-(
  created: '2007-06-12 14:42:05'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "i couldn't agree more. it's hard to imagine a novice saying, \"forget the
    lessons! i wanna parachute NOW!\"  and it's exactly (or should be) the same with
    design students. unfortunately, DTP has put very powerful tools into the hands
    of people too soon in many cases.\r\n\r\ni have seen some beautiful examples of
    <em>thoughtful</em> type distortion (see the Tate Gallery logo), but these almost
    invariably were executed by designers who learned their chops first."
  created: '2007-06-12 14:42:41'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: <em>If you look in Gringhurst.</em> &nbsp; Sorry, I misspelled; it is Bringhurst
    and  I cannot edit to correct.
  created: '2007-06-12 14:45:51'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: I actually have to tell my fellow students stretching type is a no-no, and
    why. Unfortunately, I have to do that, because no-one else does. (Well, maybe
    one or two teachers do, but the rest...)
  created: '2007-06-12 14:52:14'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 'Really, the question (to me) is why distort an existing font by stretching
    or squooshing instead of choosing a font that is already compressed or extended?
    There is no shortage of good fonts to choose from in those categories. '
  created: '2007-06-12 15:38:10'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: 'Stretch away, as long as it looks good. Some rules of thumb: 1. Don''t stretch
    too much. 2. On screen type can take a lot more stretching than off (low-rez +
    hinting makes it work.) 3. Extended types often feel more extended with a little
    stretch. 4. Some types stretch better than others. 5. 1-2% difference is totally
    acceptable. Use the InDesign paragraph composer, dial the word spacing way down,
    turn on the smallest amount of stretch (99-101%) and a little letter spacing (*gasp*
    variable letter spacing?). 6. Try not to look like you are designing a mortgage
    company flyer in Word. 7. Figure out how to draw an extended or condensed font
    to see how it''s really done, and find out where stretching starts to break down.
    8. Laugh at designers who get high and mighty about some rule that someone told
    them that they have never explored.'
  created: '2007-06-12 15:46:59'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: 'I''d like to see some examples of manipulated type that''s been stretched
    and done well. Could anyone show a worthwhile example of what''s been discussed? '
  created: '2007-06-12 16:04:21'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "OK, I've had a lot to catch up on here & have quite a few remarks to make,
    but I'll try to keep it to the minimum...\r\n\r\n> In this book, for example,
    the justification engine has been permitted to [\u2026] adjust the width of individual
    characters by [plus or minus] 2%.\u201D That is stretching\r\n\r\nI've always
    been taught that it's exceptable to adjust your kerning between the parameters
    of -3/3 to get your font to fit. This is not stretching. Well, actually I haven't
    been taught since I've only taken a technical course to learn to work with the
    programs (on a selfstudying basis) & there was never any discussion over design
    rules. But this is what I've learned from my colleagues & books.\r\n\r\nMy answer
    to a font that doesn't fit some space is indeed like many people here suggested
    looking for a different font that does fit. There's enough variety in fonts &
    most commonly used fonts have an extended family of different size, thickness,...\r\n\r\n>
    Have you ever tried to typeset in Word, it\u2019s not easy\r\n\r\nThat's exactly
    the problem. Too many people choose the wrong programs for their projects. Word
    is not the proper program for aesthetic executions. Unfortunately, this is a program
    that is widely used in \xE0ll offices & therefor takes the form of the Trojan
    horse when companies send their own \"designs\" to a graphic company. The same
    thing is happening with Photoshop BTW, too many inexperienced people have gotten
    their hands on it & (ab)using for homemade designs & logo's.\r\n\r\n> I have had
    lots of clients who have used Word as their page layout program \u2014 it\u2019s
    one reason why they are ex-clients\r\n\r\nToo bad my boss is completely clueless
    when it comes to anything graphic. She bought her way into the company as a moneylusty
    opportunist & actually runs the entire office now. After over 10 years in this
    business however, she still doesn't even know how to change a colour in Illustrator.\r\n\r\n>
    Hear, hear, Asvetic! We could trade horror stories about that over drinks sometime.
    :-)\r\n\r\nHow about this for a horror story... My ex-boss -who had been in the
    printing business for over 30 years- actually once stretched a Helvetica Black
    Condensed to 200%... The horror!\r\nAnd that's not all... We used to make a lot
    of schoolpapers & similar stuff in black & white with one supporting Pantone colour
    (we standardly used 072 regardless of in what colour it would be printed, but
    obviously paying attention to that when using percentages (when it would be printed
    in yellow eg., you can't really use 10% of the supporting colour)) & when he made
    a new logo for the company (we used to have a full colour one, a B/W one & one
    in B/W with 072 & used the one needed depending on how it was going to be printed),
    he accidently converted the 072 to CMYK which led to parts of the logo vanishing
    in print. It took them over six months to find out (we usually worked for other
    companies & rarely saw the printed versions). You can imagine the bittersweet
    hilarity amongst me & my colleagues when we heard this.\r\n\r\nI think that pretty
    much covers it (for now)."
  created: '2007-06-12 17:00:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "To me there's only one good use for stretching type:\r\ngiving contrast to
    a monoline sans by squeezing it.\r\nTry it with Futura!* But some shapes (like
    the \"s\")\r\ndo end up needing plastic surgery.\r\n\r\n* http://typophile.com/node/870\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-12 17:26:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, Unger is known for making fonts that survive mechanical compression\r\nas
    well as possible. I actually do that too a little bit - but not as expertly.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-12 17:33:21'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "\"Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the law.\"\r\nAleister Crowley
    (after the Greek philosopher \"Do what thou wilt.\")"
  created: '2007-06-12 17:36:41'
- author:
    name: Cesar Puertas
    picture: 110665
  body: 'Stretching type might be a very useful way to add contrast and proportion
    to a very low-contrast and badly proportioned typeface you are working on. That
    is exactly what happened to me when working in Obliqua: http://www.typophile.com/node/12608'
  created: '2007-06-12 18:07:38'
- author:
    name: pbaber
  body: "http://www.lehni-trueb.ch/Schauspielhaus+Z%FCrich+-+Brochures+03+-+04/#\r\n\r\nSeverely
    compressed Futura Extra-Bold. I think it looks great!"
  created: '2007-06-13 19:18:23'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"Stifling creativity\". Ha Ha! So that's what they call typing 180% into
    the scale window, creativity?  Gee, don't ask those kids to use a pencil or there
    will be a riot on cell block 8. \r\n\r\nOne simple rule you can follow if your
    eyes aren't a useful guide: Any typeface with a very clear vertical stress will
    withstand non-proportional scaling better than typefaces with diagonal stress.
    Garamond, Goudy, Minion, etc. are more delicately drawn, and even their curves
    look messed up when squished (they go kind of diamond-shaped). The best circumstance
    is if the design has some contrast, on a vertical axis, and the shapes are sort
    of squarish or mechanical. Given that, there aren't many typefaces that will withstand
    the distortion. Type is usually designed with pretty careful spacing between letters
    as well as within them. If I adapt a typeface to make a condensed version, generally
    each letter will get a different amount of compression, because of the internal
    proportions. In addition the space between letters is adjusted. \r\n\r\nThe general
    user of type is unaware of how delicate the balance of a well-made typeface is.
    It isn't something you can hammer on in Illustrator a bunch until it looks \"pretty
    good\". Most professional-grade typefaces are drawn (and spaced and kerned) so
    carefully that nobody thinks about it. But as anyone who has tried either customizing
    type, drawing a logo from scratch, or starting their first typeface has discovered,
    there's a lot more holding type together than it might seem. \r\n\r\nOne other
    way to look at non-proportional scaling: Just because you can, doesn't mean you
    should. Same with using guns."
  created: '2007-06-14 01:08:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> anyone who has tried either customizing type, drawing a logo\r\n> from
    scratch, or starting their first typeface has discovered,\r\n> there\u2019s a
    lot more holding type together than it might seem.\r\n\r\nYou're such an optimist!
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-14 01:43:03'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: Make that "should have discovered".
  created: '2007-06-15 00:32:10'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: 'Christian, I''m laughing about your #8 above. That "puritanism" happens when
    people follow a rule (and it''s a good rule!) without really knowing why they''re
    doing it. '
  created: '2007-06-15 09:05:27'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "This one is a very good interactive demonstration of the issues:\r\nhttp://www.artlebedev.com/mandership/134/\r\n\r\nHow
    much can you stretch Mona Lisa until it becomes apparent?\r\n\r\nEven better,
    art.lebedev suggest \"that designers (and customers) take their own photo and
    distort it along with the font. When the distortions become visible on the face,
    it\u2019s time you stop disfiguring the font.\""
  created: '2007-06-15 19:45:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Tim, I've read that fashion photos are regularly squooshed by 5%.\r\nAnd
    even though those ladies start out much thinner than Mona!  :-)\r\nBut we still
    think the photos are human. Humans are funny.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-15 19:54:08'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "[NEVER MIND - I tried to \"insert image\", but I guess that function isn't
    working either.]\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-22 19:48:18'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "Okay, now it's letting me.\r\n\r\nI found this gem in a window:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PleaseNotNotsmall_5870.jpg]\r\n\r\nPlease
    Not Not Stretch"
  created: '2007-06-26 21:58:42'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: You gotta love the "not not" though ;-) Somehow the scribbled through first
    "not" makes the stretching more acceptable... in a devil-may-care kind of way.
  created: '2007-06-26 22:35:44'
- author:
    name: Robert Trogman
    picture: 111573
  body: "One of the times when I stretch is when I wish to make pseudo small capitals.
    The pros do it about 5% and sometimes it takes\r\n10%. The stretching makes the
    vertical strokes heavier in order to match the regular capital letter that is
    next to it.\r\nFor example: 24 point caps with a 20 point caps. The weights are
    obviously different, but when you stretch the 20 point the weights tend to even
    out."
  created: '2007-06-26 22:42:08'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "sure. it's a wonderful tool. i don't feel bad going 2% in either direction
    for copyfitting, etc. or 5% for effect.\r\nmy point, though, is that before a
    student of design really knows what they're doing, they can torture a poor typeface
    without even knowing why they're doing it or why they might be better off thinking
    again."
  created: '2007-06-27 00:07:37'
date: '2007-06-12 10:11:26'
node_type: forum
title: type taboo

---
