---
author:
  name: mister_eaves
body: "Hi All -- \r\n\r\nThe project is an 8-page corporate editorial-style newsletter.
  8.5 x 11\" page, three-column grid, serif typeface (9.5 point Sabon on 13 points
  leading), ragged-right alignment. \r\n\r\nThe client has got some bug up her @$5
  that \"hyphens are bad in all circumstances\" and has directed that no words shall
  ever be hyphenated. Ever. \r\n\r\nNow, I understand that it's bad form to allow
  hyphens in headlines. Subheads. Deckheads. Maybe even pull quotes. But... eliminate
  all hyphens from the body copy? This is going to make for a rather awkward rag (at
  the best) or a lot of time spent walking the lines trying to fix the rag. \r\n\r\nAnyone
  ever had this request? I'm sure there's gotta be some readability study out there
  that I can point to that proves hyphens -- when used sparingly in body copy -- actually
  help readability. \r\n\r\nThoughts?"
comments:
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "What is the measure? I prefer to avoid hyphens and consequently do spend
    a lot of time going over the rag at the end of a job. You are not the only one
    to have had the request.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-06-14 18:03:57'
- author:
    name: elizabeth_355
    picture: 112087
  body: Ask her what she'd do about a word such as "shell-like" ... surely she wouldn't
    want it written as "shelllike" ... would she?
  created: '2007-06-14 18:05:47'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>This is going to make for a rather awkward rag (at the best) or a lot
    of time spent walking the lines trying to fix the rag.</em>\r\n\r\nDepending on
    your content and the size of your gutter, yes, it might be a problem, but it might
    not either.  If you've got a narrower gutter and wider columns, and most words
    under 11 letters, it may well not be one.\r\n\r\nI set ragged-right text without
    hyphens very often, and no one has complained about readability, so you probably
    can't use that at a rationale.... "
  created: '2007-06-14 18:09:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">The client has got some bug up her @$5 that \u201Chyphens are bad in all
    circumstances\u201D and has directed that no words shall ever be hyphenated. Ever.
    \r\n\r\nEasy solution, have the piece translated into Japanese. Or read this similar
    thread... http://typophile.com/node/30235\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-14 18:11:52'
- author:
    name: jmickel
    picture: 111302
  body: You can turn off hyphenation in Indesign. Under the paragraph palette. You
    may have to turn on the 'view options' to see it.
  created: '2007-06-14 18:13:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Elizabeth, proxy argumentation with nazis is hopeless. Especially in ASCII!
    \ :-/\r\n\r\n\"Richard\", I think the best you can do is follow orders but gently\r\nhelp
    her realize through your results that she needs to loosen up.\r\nIf the measure
    is long enough (I see your leading is huge, which is\r\nencouraging - if only
    in a twisted way) you can <cite>reduce</cite> hyphens,\r\nwhich I actually agree
    is beneficial, but an Absolute Ban is nuts.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-14 18:13:47'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "You could show her an assortment of publications which demonstrate the widespread
    acceptable use of hyphens with the hope she may change her mind.\r\n\r\nYou could
    conjure a fatal storm of lead hyphens to rain down upon her with the hope she
    is replaced with a more reasonable editor. \r\n\r\nOr you could say to her that
    it's an unusual request (which consumes column inches and can result in raggedy
    arsed columns which may compromise readablity) but that you would be more than
    happy to do all that extra work for an additional cost.\r\n\r\nIf it pays why
    argue with fools?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: kflynn
    body: 'I agree with the client--no hyphenation!  Sorry if that puts me in with
      the "fools."  I just think it''s not needed, is less readable, and you may end
      up with some really wierd computer-generated hyphenation. By the way, I noticed
      that none of these posts are hyphenated. '
    created: '2007-06-14 18:40:54'
  created: '2007-06-14 18:19:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That's nothing - you should see what they look like on Macs.  :->\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-14 18:51:46'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "<em>By the way, I noticed that none of these posts are hyphenated.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd
    do you consider all of them to be good typography? "
  created: '2007-06-14 19:12:53'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I avoid hyphens in ragged text but there are occasions when it's essential
    to prevent a really weird shape in your rag. I'd say do your best not to use them
    (turn hyphenation off, as suggested) and then manually introduce them only if
    necessary. And then take it case by case with the boss. Odds are she won't even
    notice the odd hyphen. It is neither an unusual nor an unreasonable request but
    I tend to resist that sort of rigid attitude too in favor of a little more flexibility.
  created: '2007-06-14 19:21:32'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: A client asking to eliminate hyphens in ragged settings is no big deal. Means
    the rag will be a little looser, and you'll have to massage it a little bit more
    to make it look good. But you should be doing that anyway. You are a typographer
    not a computer-monkey.
  created: '2007-06-14 19:29:41'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "It might be unusual to get that kind of absolute directive, but it ain't
    unheard of, and I've heard some a lot more outlandish! In any case, at 9.5/13,
    with a column width of, say 12p2 to 13p6 (which you'll probably get w/3 legs on
    letter), I don't think it'll be a problem either. Like Ken said, it'll loosen
    up the rag, but you're leading it out nicely anyway, so it may just reinforce
    the air.  \r\n\r\nThe problem I run into is long urls in running text. How do
    you hyphenate those without confusing the reader? "
  created: '2007-06-14 19:37:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The problem is that removing hyphenation will generally make reading easier
    -- except that every so often it will create an oddity of adjacent line-lengths
    which draws attention to itself, looking like a word has been left out. So highlight
    those instances in fluourescent marker, and ask her if you can re-write the copy
    to get a smoother rag. And I say this only partially in jest. :-)/:-(\r\n\r\n(There
    is also a problem in rag copy where by chance several adjacent lines come out
    to the full measure, looking like some justification got mixed in by mistake.
    Another cause for intervention with the dreaded soft return.)"
  created: '2007-06-14 19:50:17'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: What Nick said, except make her rewrite the stuff. Giving her more work to
    do might tame her pickiness.
  created: '2007-06-14 20:09:29'
- author:
    name: Small Caps
    picture: 112615
  body: "Hi, \r\n\r\nYou might want to read this...\r\nhttp://home.comcast.net/~garbl/stylemanual/h.htm"
  created: '2007-06-14 20:24:22'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: (i love it that the style page begins with "hairbrained" and ends with "hypocrisy,"
    with "hyphen" falling somewhere in between...)
  created: '2007-06-14 20:33:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The problem I run into is long urls in running text.\r\n> How do you hyphenate
    those without confusing the reader?\r\n\r\nNot to start a Typo-L-style mess, but
    the least problematic\r\nsolution I've heard of is to use the logical-not character.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-14 22:43:59'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: That's interesting. I don't think I've ever heard that before. I had always
    thought the logical not was a mathematical symbol. You're saying it can indicate
    the hyphenated word does not contain a dash?
  created: '2007-06-15 00:01:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm not sure if you're asking what I'm thinking. The logical-not at the end
    of an incomplete URL can indicate that it should be ignored and the rest of the
    URL from the following line should be appended. Sort of like a special hyphen
    for URLs. The reason this can work is that the hyphen is allowed in URLs but the
    logical-not... is not! :-)  On the other hand, some people will tend to get confused.
    Natural selection, baby.  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: elliot100
      picture: 110615
    body: "Hrant: I don't see why you would need any hyphenation character in a URL
      at all. Why not just break after a slash, or if necessary anywhere else? Given
      that URLs start with \"http://\" or \"www\" or similar it should be clear where
      the URL starts.\r\n\r\nI'm looking at a PHP manual where faint halftoned arrows
      are used *after* the line break to indicate run on lines. But then it's much
      more difficult to tell what's happening from context"
    created: '2007-06-15 16:10:49'
  created: '2007-06-15 00:52:39'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "I have had this request many times over. My only solution was to do a flush
    left/rag right. When they come back and say, Justify\" - I say, \"Hyphens.\"\r\n\r\nThen
    of course I ask them to cut some copy, because let's face it, justified lines
    with hyphens takes up less room.\r\n\r\nGood luck - you can do it -- just takes
    more time per page to make it look right - beware of rivers...."
  created: '2007-06-15 00:56:44'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "We get all sorts of requests regarding hyphenation -- usually from editors,
    sometimes from designers. With ragged setting, I've seen \"no hyphens,\" \"no
    more than two hyphens in a row\" (a usual hyphen block in justified copy is more
    than three), \"don't hyphenate after two only letters,\" and on & on. On the other
    hand, some specify \"tight ragg.\" A few want lines to have a pattern of \"long,
    short, long, short.\" Those are the only ones I tell to find another typesetter.\r\n\r\nPeople
    have all sorts of theories on what is easier to read. I use to have them, too.
    But I can read a book & enjoy it & forget my profession. So on a number of occasions,
    after finishing a book, I went back to look at the hyphenation that had been used.
    Most of them broke all sorts of my pet rules, & I finally had to admit most of
    these rules are a matter of what people (including me) used to feel more professional;
    they had nothing to do with <cite>reading.</cite>\r\n\r\nOne thing people often
    seem to forget is that all composition is compromise. Hyphenation aids even spacing
    -- between words in justified copy, at line ends in ragged copy. Unless you write
    & rewrite the copy to fit the space, limiting one increased the amount of the
    other.\r\n\r\nOne of my favorite PE's was \"PE, loose line; PE, hyphenated word.\"
    Both PE's referring to the same line. The hyphenated word was a long one, and
    all agreed it wasn't going to come up. So to banish the hyphen, the line perforce
    had to get even looser. Where do they think loose space space comes from?\r\n\r\nThere
    is also a fun situation with 18th century composition. Apparently, some felt the
    reader might get lost if a word hyphenated overleaf. So, if that happened, they
    would set the complete word on the line below that last line; the reader would
    then have the whole word. Next, someone got the idea that even if the word wasn't
    hyphenated, the reader might get lost, so they set the next word (that occurred
    overleaf) on the line below. Apparently someone finally figured out that the logical
    end to that was to set the whole rest of the chapter on the line(s) below, which
    wasn't going to work, so they stopped this nonsense. Today, with people reading
    while listening to music & maybe watching television simultaneously, this argument
    (\"the reader will get confused\") has little merit.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-15 03:03:39'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Simple solution: using a thesaurus, a bottle of wine, and some trial and
    error, get the text to make an interesting symetrical shape.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/steinemx_3628.jpg]"
  created: '2007-06-15 03:27:51'
- author:
    name: pbaber
  body: I don't think it's a big deal to be specified no hyphenation if your text
    is going to be set ragged-right. I normally set the text up with hyphenation and
    'Paragraph Composer' turned off, and then go through it line by line manually
    adjusting the line breaks. And you've only got 8 pages of text so it's not a big
    deal to do this. If you do it well a deep-rag can look nice.
  created: '2007-06-15 13:31:26'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I turn off Adobe Paragraph Composer too. I'm too much of a control freak to
    let the program rag my text for me, and I don't think it does such a great job.
  created: '2007-06-15 13:34:37'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "hrant-\r\nLike I said, it's an interesting solution for the url line. I'm
    going to play with it a bit and see how well it \"works\" aesthetically for me.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-15 16:53:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Credit goes to Jef Tombeur.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-15 17:15:42'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Just finished a job with the same request. The client also requested that
    I not set the numerals as subscript, which translates to old style.\r\n\r\nMy
    initial read was that this person was used to fixing on the no-hyphens. I just
    worked with it and kicked it back for small re-writes to fix the worst problems.
    It still isn't as good as it could have been with a few selective hyphens, but
    as stated above, with the right measure you can work it out."
  created: '2007-06-15 17:21:37'
- author:
    name: cooper design
    picture: 111844
  body: '[removed]'
  created: '2007-06-16 09:08:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Why did you remove that - it was brilliant!  :-(\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-16 15:36:22'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: and the rest of us who didn't see it feel cheated...
  created: '2007-06-16 15:44:30'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Yeah! Put it back please - you can write why you removed it or thought again.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-16 19:12:15'
- author:
    name: cooper design
    picture: 111844
  body: "With apologies, I thought the comment\u2014nay, essay\u2014 wasn't sufficiently
    typographic in nature. And what it lacked in concision it made up for with wildly
    inflated rhetoric. In lieu of a poorly rewritten version, the gist was, in short,
    that the client's rigid No Hyphen mandate is largely a declaration of status meant
    to shape the relationship. To absolutely assert an arbitrary rule concerning something
    so trifling is a sort of preemptive scolding, a very slight symbolic degredation
    of your social rank: \"Don't forget that there are limits to your ownership here.
    You will respect me and do as I say.\"\r\n\r\nIf you are not working inside an
    organization with a formalized system of rank, these sort of superior/subordinate
    negotiations go on all the time. The point of contention is always, necessarily,
    trivial.  How adroitly you handle the process  \u2014 the degree to which you
    push back, comply, or renegotiate \u2014 obviously has less to do with design
    strategy and more to do with a sensitivity to political pressure. But I would
    suggest that there are a number of creative solutions that will allow one to produce
    work of the highest quality and also let your client know that she is valued,
    heard and respected. And I think achieving those two things together is the real
    goal."
  created: '2007-06-16 22:29:40'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>And what it lacked in concision it made up for with wildly inflated rhetoric.</em>\r\n\r\nHaving
    seen the original, that comment is quite an understatement."
  created: '2007-06-17 01:38:50'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "Hmmm...  I did several projects with a client that said, \"Our headline face
    is Torino.\" \r\n\r\nTo me, it sounds like much the same thing. I don't happen
    to have many relationships with clients that I would describe as adversarial,
    although I admit -- they do sometimes exist.\r\n\r\nIn the end, I think (and this
    is my personal take) that both designer <em> and </em> client have a stake of
    ownership (for want of a better term) of a project, but perhaps the greater stake
    must belong to the client; it's to they that designers hope to give a voice, and
    it's also they who will either be served or not with the design. \r\n\r\nIf you
    work at an office where the boss says, \"No bolo ties,\" I think it's a losing
    position to declare that bolos, are, in fact, the accessory that asserts your
    freedom of expression. The boss has an overall image they are hoping to project,
    and if that one look doesn't fit into the definition, as they see it, them so
    be it.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I'm rambling.\r\n\r\nAny designer can work without hyphens,
    if they need to."
  created: '2007-06-17 01:58:59'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Thanks Thomas.
  created: '2007-06-17 07:59:58'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>With apologies, I thought the comment\u2014nay, essay\u2014 wasn\u2019t
    sufficiently typographic in nature. And what it lacked in concision it made up
    for with wildly inflated rhetoric. In lieu of a poorly rewritten version, the
    gist was, in short, that the client\u2019s rigid No Hyphen mandate is largely
    a declaration of status meant to shape the relationship. To absolutely assert
    an arbitrary rule concerning something so trifling is a sort of preemptive scolding,
    a very slight symbolic degredation of your social rank: \u201CDon\u2019t forget
    that there are limits to your ownership here. You will respect me and do as I
    say.\u201D\r\nIf you are not working inside an organization with a formalized
    system of rank, these sort of superior/subordinate negotiations go on all the
    time. The point of contention is always, necessarily, trivial. How adroitly you
    handle the process \u2014 the degree to which you push back, comply, or renegotiate
    \u2014 obviously has less to do with design strategy and more to do with a sensitivity
    to political pressure. But I would suggest that there are a number of creative
    solutions that will allow one to produce work of the highest quality and also
    let your client know that she is valued, heard and respected. And I think achieving
    those two things together is the real goal.</cite>\r\n\r\nSry I missed the original.
    This is right on though. Most of human actions don't rise above the basic pissing
    and sniffing we are so fond of. To elevate the discussion to the betterment of
    the communication and function is limited by the lack of social intelligence.\r\n\r\nTo
    add a little more complexity, I believe the person I was working with was demonstrating
    to me her methods of dominating the in-house designer she was used to working
    with. My experience is that pressure to move in a better direction is best applied
    consistently over time. I'm sure my explanation of old style characters, which
    she had assumed were subscript?, did not sit well with her and only strengthened
    her resolve to not bend on other well established routines. \r\n\r\nPlease send
    me the original comment if it is still to be had."
  created: '2007-06-19 17:28:55'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Well part of being a designer is that you are also frequently dealing with
    people who have a little bit of knowledge about type and/or design, and want to
    make sure you know that. It is a power game - if they're the client they want
    to make sure they're getting what they pay for (and that you know you work for
    them). If they're the client's representative or liaison then they want to prove
    their importance to the client - make sure the clients believes they are instrumental
    to the design process. \r\n\r\nI've had all sorts of design rules spouted at me
    and most of the time, unless it's something I have a serious objection to, I roll
    with it. Being a difficult designer isn't gonna help you in the long run."
  created: '2007-06-19 18:35:28'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "It's like going to the dentist and telling him what and how to do it. Seems
    realistic? Not really.\r\n\r\nBut unfortunately there are many people out there
    that they think they can outsmart the dentist. Of course they're the ones that
    end up with \"worst teeth\"."
  created: '2007-06-19 18:58:44'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "<em>It\u2019s like going to the dentist and telling him what and how to do
    it. Seems realistic? Not really.</em>\r\n\r\nNo, it's not like that at all. Everybody,
    every human being, has some sense of design. It's true that not everybody is a
    fashion designer, but everybody can put together an ensemble. It's true that not
    everybody is an interior designer, but everybody can paint four walls or hang
    posters.\r\n\r\nThe profession of dentistry has nothing to do with design. So
    it's more like going a hair stylist and telling him what to do and how to do it.
    And that happens all the time. \r\n\r\nDesign is subjective. (Tiffany that said
    that on another thread, and I agree wholeheartedly.)"
  created: '2007-06-19 19:28:52'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>So it\u2019s more like going a hair stylist and telling him what to do
    and how to do it. And that happens all the time.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd that's why there
    are still people who have mullets....  ;-)\r\n\r\n<em>Design is subjective. (Tiffany
    that said that on another thread, and I agree wholeheartedly.)</em>\r\n\r\nI do
    too, although one could say the same thing about music, even for people who can't
    carry a tune in a bucket or have the sense of rhythm of a dead slug.  Most (but
    not all) of them know their limitations."
  created: '2007-06-19 19:34:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Not all of Design is subjective - certainly not all of\r\ntext typography.
    That would make it Art (god forbid).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-19 19:38:32'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "When I said that I'm sure I was generalizing. While anything with intrinsic
    aesthetic value is subjective, there are of course those who know and those who
    don't know. That sounds terribly arrogant, but it is the truth. \r\n\r\nI might
    create something which my client really likes, but that I will not put in my portfolio
    because I see many things which I wouldn't do given the option. Does that make
    more sense?\r\n\r\nI'll add that sometimes in life it isn't about the portfolio,
    but it is about getting that check. "
  created: '2007-06-19 19:45:12'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "<em>And that\u2019s why there are still people who have mullets\u2026. ;-)</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    bad design exists.\r\n\r\n<em>Not all of Design is subjective - certainly not
    all of\r\ntext typography. That would make it Art (god forbid).</em>\r\n\r\nOr
    Science (god forbid). But I would argue that text typography is subjective...individually,
    culturally, and historically."
  created: '2007-06-19 19:49:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> text typography is subjective\r\n\r\nParty, yes. Everything is (even Science).\r\nBut
    for example ignoring that serifs help readability is... worse than a mullet!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-19 19:59:21'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> But for example ignoring that serifs help readability is\u2026 worse than
    a mullet!\r\n\r\nThat's quite a strong statement; seemingly hyperbole, and calls
    into question your fashion sense.\r\n; )\r\n\r\nPS, can someone go back to Jupiterboy's
    post and add the /cite please?"
  created: '2007-06-19 21:01:26'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: How is it now. I used that command in the original post and it was showing
    up as ital for me as usual.   ?
  created: '2007-06-19 21:11:25'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: Fixed!
  created: '2007-06-19 21:34:26'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "<em>It\u2019s like going to the dentist and telling him what and how to do
    it. Seems realistic? Not really.\r\n\r\nBut unfortunately there are many people
    out there that they think they can outsmart the dentist. Of course they\u2019re
    the ones that end up with \u201Cworst teeth\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nApologies to everyone
    for taking this Off-topic.\r\n\r\nLitera - I learnt from a wonderful GP in New
    York to question every doctor I go/speak to. I'm glad I do it -- sometimes without
    thinking. 30 years ago, I went to a dentist on an emergency. He said I needed
    2 root canals (because he didn't know which tooth was bothering me, and it wasn't
    clear on the x-rays). I said thank you, but no thanks. Took something to deaden
    the pain -- and drove home. The next morning I saw my own dentist. Well, a small
    bit of food had gone below gumline and was irritating a tooth. He removed it with
    a good cleaning, and I've never needed the root canals.\r\n\r\nSo yes, some of
    us do speak to the dentist - and know to get a second opinion. \r\n\r\nNow you
    can go back on-topic. I am sorry, but I couldn't let that statement sit there
    like it's correct. All doctors are human beings - and they do make very human
    errors. There are no gods among MDs or DDSs -- and one needs to know, not just
    to ask questions - but which questions. Honestly, I didn't want to help put that
    other dentist's kids through college.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-20 02:40:40'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "<cite> The client also requested that I not set the numerals as subscript,
    which translates to old style.</cite>\r\n\r\nHehehe. My project manager calls
    the old style numerals \"floating numbers.\" And she despises them. Except when
    she doesn't notice them.\r\n\r\nK."
  created: '2007-06-29 03:19:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Make sure she doesn't find out about lowercase.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-29 03:48:51'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: Double post. Sorry.
  created: '2007-06-29 14:36:32'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Oh no, our little typophiliac hideout has been spotted for direct marketing!
    We must form an emerging market.\r\n\r\nPlease remove the g*dd*m spam. (While
    you're at it, this mail as well, to prevent me being called a meany for 'bashing'
    the above post :-) )"
  created: '2008-11-28 23:16:54'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Theunis, if you track Traffic101 through his/her/its profile, you'll see
    that the m.o. is to dig up some long dormant thread, post some vaguely related
    one-liner and then link to some forum spam. Sometimes it's pretty subtle, but
    it's been going on a while now.\r\n\r\nI think a moderator should look into this
    account and verify whether it's a sincere and legitimate person; otherwise, eliminate
    it.\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-29 14:17:43'
date: '2007-06-14 17:38:58'
title: 'Client request: "eliminate all hyphens" in newsletter'

---
