---
author:
  name: Goran Soderstrom
  picture: 111361
body: "Hi experts,\r\n\r\nI have some problem deciding on how to approach a slightly
  italic stem.\r\n\r\nWith slightly, I mean its only slanted about 2 steps on the
  grid in FontLab.\r\n\r\nIs there any better way of solving these kind of stems,
  as seen on the image?\r\n\r\nBoth has the shape that I want, but I\u2019m note sure
  what is best.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/234pointhandling_4600.png]"
comments:
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Are your two steps related to the x-height ?
  children:
  - author:
      name: kiko
      picture: 112433
    body: "I\xB4m no expert for sure, but i will probably not insert any new points
      at all, insted i would try to use the bezier handles of the top and bottom points,
      if i want a continuous curve.\r\n\r\nSure it doesn\xB4t look like a regular
      italic slant angle and the two shapes are diferent eachother like hrant pointed
      out.\r\n\r\nbut like i said... i\xB4m just a bigginer\r\n\r\nbest regards\r\n"
    created: '2007-06-15 00:00:21'
  created: '2007-06-14 22:29:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "How could they both have the shape you want\r\nwhen one has a flat segment
    and the other doesn't?\r\n\r\nBTW, an italic with such a minute slant cannot be
    a useful\r\nitalic in the eyes of most users. Better to label it Cursive.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-14 23:20:58'
- author:
    name: russ_mcmullin
    picture: 112437
  body: I've come to the conclusion that if font auditor doesn't flag it as a potential
    problem, I can put the point wherever I choose. It may be a mistaken conclusion,
    but that is how I go about it. If either shape is acceptable, I would go with
    the one on the right. It has fewer points.
  created: '2007-06-15 00:49:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "If you aren't already aware, note that the lowest difference that you can
    visually detect in print traditionally--and this was letter press--is about 1/4
    of a thousandth of an inch. \r\n\r\nSo when your em is one pica,each unit is 1/6th
    of a thousandth of an inch. So two units--1/3 of a thousandth of an inch is the
    lowest detectable slant, if it is indeed detectable in one 12 pt type. When you
    go down to 10 point, the slant of 2 units won't be detectable at all, by this
    standard.\r\n\r\nIn display sizes, you will see it. \r\n\r\nI'm not saying don't
    do it, but I thought it might be useful to you to know the limits, if you weren't
    aware already. "
  created: '2007-06-15 01:28:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the lowest difference that you can visually detect in print\r\n> traditionally\u2014and
    this was letter press\u2014is about 1/4 of a\r\n> thousandth of an inch.\r\n\r\nWhere
    did you get that number? From what I know, it's way too large.\r\nNote for example
    that typical ink bleed is one mil (1/1000 inch) and\r\nthat's very easily visible.
    Furthermore you seem to be confusing micro\r\ndifferentiation with something huge
    like slant.\r\n\r\nAlso, this type of \"limit\" doesn't account for the\r\nmass
    effect of tiny differences in overall texture.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-15 01:55:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I just checked the degree in Photoshop, and it's about 1.\r\nA slant of 1
    degree (like in Syntax) is known to be easily\r\ndistinguishable from no slant
    even in text sizes. Maybe not\r\nto a casual observer, but it's clearly not below
    the limits\r\nof human perception.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-15 02:02:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Where did you get that number? \r\n\r\nThis is what I saw in at the Museum
    of Printing in their Mergenthaler Linotype library. In their measured drawings
    they would go down to quarters of a thousandth, but not below that--IIRC that's
    what Larry Oppenberg told me.\r\n\r\n>ink bleed one mil (1/1000 inch) and\r\nthat\u2019s
    very easily visible.\r\n\r\n1/4 of a thousandth is of course four times smaller,
    and that, they assume, is visible. It's below that amount they didn't bother with.
    \r\n\r\nNow that I think of it, that limit might have been their limit control
    over the pantographic punch cutter, and not the limit of what the eye can see.
    \ \r\n\r\nSo I may be wrong and you can go finer. I still suspect you are near
    the visible limit with two units in a 1000 unit em at 12 points--particularly
    when you are not talking about stem width but with a 2 unit slant over a distance
    of say 400 units. \r\n\r\nIf I'm doing my math right, then Goran's slant--if this
    is at x-height--is about the same as Syntax's, which is 1/2 of a degree. And that
    you can feel rather than see at text sizes, right? So I would think that's about
    the detectable limit. If this is at cap height I think you might not see it at
    12 point.  \r\n"
  created: '2007-06-15 02:05:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The pantograph angle would be interesting to pursue (although perhaps\r\nelsewhere)
    since I've long been interested in its limits concerning the\r\ncutting of sharp
    corners.\r\n\r\n> If I\u2019m doing my math right ...\r\n\r\nI think you're assuming
    a 2-unit difference along the entire 1000 Em height, while I suspect Goran is
    talking about that difference just along the height of that glyph, which I would
    guess is about half the Em height. Which adds up, since I got 1 degree (double
    yours) using a visual measurement.\r\n\r\n> that you can feel rather than see
    at text sizes, right?\r\n\r\nWell, Seria Italic has an -average- slant of 1/2
    a degree, and I think Majoor would tell you it's visible. But I'm not sure how
    to differentiate \"feel\" and \"see\" here... Certainly if you ask a person to
    estimate the slant he can't do it; but if you set totally upright text next to
    1/2-degree-slanted text and ask a person to concsiously choose which one is slanted
    I'm pretty sure he can, even at like 12 point. I <cite>am</cite> assuming extremely
    clean repro here though.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-15 02:54:17'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "Wheather its visible or not is another discussion, my friends. But this is
    actually the regular version of the font, not the italic.\r\n\r\n<cite>Are your
    two steps related to the x-height ?</cite>\r\n\r\nNo - what I meant was that the
    slant is very, very small as seen on the picture. Two steps horizontal. And about
    one degree.\r\n\r\n<cite>How could they both have the shape you want when one
    has a flat segment and the other doesn\u2019t?</cite>\r\n\r\nVisually they both
    represent the same stem-feeling I want. They look more different when you see
    the point placement here than they do when you look at the letter in the preview
    window or on print. Visually there is so small difference that I can be happy
    with either of them.\r\n\r\nI was thinking more in technical terms, if there is
    any advantages in using one or the other. Maybe because of hinting-issues, or
    other technical matters.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-15 08:13:54'
- author:
    name: Toby
    picture: 109971
  body: "Both are fine technically. The first one\xB4s just flat in the middle..."
  created: '2007-06-15 10:48:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">technical matters\r\n\r\nThere may be issues as to what is easier to bold
    or thin in Multiple Master, but I am not experienced in using these. Perhaps someone
    knowledgeable on these will chime in. "
  created: '2007-06-15 12:51:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "[Edit of double post]\r\n\r\nSorry to go into this Goran, but I want to get
    it straight (so to speak :) \r\n\r\nIf we are talking about an x-height character
    at say 400 units, then the ratio away from vertical (horizontal to vertical) is
    2/400, which is .005. \r\n\r\nAn angle of .3 degrees has that tangent of .005.
    \r\n\r\nIf we are talking about a cap height character of, say 700 units, then
    2/700 is .003. \r\n\r\nAn angle of .2 degrees has that tangent of .003\r\n\r\nUnless
    my math is wrong, either way you slice it, this is much less than 1 degree. "
  created: '2007-06-15 12:51:36'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "William --\r\n\r\n.00025 inch was the finest machining tolerance that Mergenthaler
    Linotype Co. worked to. This was, of course, a very precise tolerance at that
    time. The company made a big deal about it. And I recall reading an article about
    MLCo. precision being touted in an engineering newsletter (<cite>The Scovill Standard</cite>).\r\n\r\nBut
    I don't know if you can extrapolate from this tolerance anything about limits
    of human visual detection. \r\n\r\nI'm not sure if the pantographic cutter had
    anything to do with that lower limit. I believe the cutter was probably the primary
    device in the manufacturing and machining process. But I don't know if it was
    the limiting factor. I suppose that .00025 may have been the diameter of the smallest
    cutter. But this would take research to confirm.\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2007-06-15 14:14:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> this is actually the regular version of the font, not the italic.\r\n\r\nThat's
    encouraging.\r\n\r\n> Visually they both represent the same stem-feeling I want.\r\n\r\nOK.\r\nPersonally
    I would do the right one, but place the points at the maxima:\r\nabout 3/4 of
    the way up on the left, and 3/4 of the way down on the right.\r\n\r\nBut I don't
    think it's a huge deal, and there might very well be other mechanical\r\nor operational
    reasons (like William's auto-Bold point) that push the decision in a different
    direction.\r\n\r\n> this is much less than 1 degree.\r\n\r\nTry estimating it
    via Photoshop.\r\n\r\n> I suppose that .00025 may have been the diameter of the
    smallest cutter.\r\n\r\nFrom what I remember it was one or two mil. Huge.\r\nIt's
    actually somewhere in a Giampa post on Typophile.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-15 14:46:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "If I remember correctly Larry Oppenberg, who onced worked in the Mergenthaler
    Linotype drawing office, showed me drawings in which the 'f' was slanted backward
    by only .00025 inches. The Linotype drawing office, he said, felt that sometimes
    the f looked falling forward if it was straight, and a slight back slant made
    it look more upright. (I have a photo of a drawing with the 'i' slanted forward
    by .00075.)\r\n\r\nSo Goran's practice here is close to that, though much less
    than a degree. \r\n\r\nedit:\r\n\r\n>try estimating it via photoshop \r\n\r\nThese
    are vectors, so the calculations are relevant to what you will get in print. The
    Photoshop rounding by pixel might be misleading. \r\n\r\nOh, and the diameter
    of the cutter it seems to me isn't the only factor. It might be that though they
    couldn't route out a very tight radius, they could control 'wobble' of the cutting
    line down to .00025. That would be relevant to something like a back slant of
    that dimension. "
  created: '2007-06-15 14:47:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the \u2018f\u2019 was slanted backward by only .00025 inches.\r\n\r\nDo
    you mean along the entire Em height, or its own height?\r\n\r\n> sometimes the
    f looked falling forward if it was straight ...\r\n\r\nThis is a pretty classic
    type of issue, and can\r\noften be corrected by means other than slant.\r\n\r\n>
    much less than a degree.\r\n\r\nWill you please stop denying it's ~1 degree?\r\nGoran
    even said it's \"about one degree\".\r\n\r\n> they could control \u2018wobble\u2019
    of the cutting line down to .00025\r\n\r\nI don't know what this means.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-15 15:37:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">entire Em height, or its own height?\r\n\r\nThe indication of back slant
    was, IIRC, at the left most point of the stem, where the top of the f started
    to bend forward. \r\n\r\n>Will you please stop denying it\u2019s ~1 degree?\r\n\r\nIf
    it's less than 1/2 degree, and the math says .2- .3 degrees, one would normally
    not round up and call it one degree. If anything one would round down and call
    it 0. It is perfectly valid to go with it, but I thought Goran might want to know
    it was less than he seemed to think.  \r\n\r\nBy 'wobble' I mean eg that when
    drawing a straight vertical line, the cutter would not vary more than .00025 to
    the right or left.  "
  created: '2007-06-15 16:04:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Do you think I'm trying to fool you or something?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/angles_6613.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    left line is 1 degree, the right line is 1/2.\r\nGoran's slant is friggin' 1 degree,
    no rounding needed even.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-15 17:15:04'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> >>KL:  I suppose that .00025 may have been the diameter of the smallest
    cutter.\r\n>HHP: From what I remember it was one or two mil. Huge.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    makes more sense -- .00025 would be pretty dang small for a cutter. Can you imagine?\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I dug up that article. The drawings were done to .00025, but it turns out the
    margin of error on machining was smaller. Here's an excerpt from Griffith:\r\n\r\n\"The
    matrix in its final form represents over sixty manufacturing operations alone.
    Each matrix must pass through more than half a hundred examinations and inspections
    before it goes out to the printer. A fifteenth part of a thousandth part of an
    inch is considered a factor of error. If it is not perfect it becomes scrap brass.\"\r\n\r\n[\"Pieces
    of Brass: A Story of Mergenthaler Linotype Matrices,\" by C.H. Griffith, <cite>The
    Scovill Standard</cite>, Jan-Feb 1931]\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-15 18:56:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Do you think I\u2019m trying to fool you or something?\r\n\r\nNo, I think
    you insist on measuring the wrong thing, or in the wrong way. What you should
    measure is the slant in FontLab, or in print, not in photoshop or a gif. \r\n\r\nOne
    of my whacky prejudices is that trigonometry is true. \r\n\r\nIf the difference
    is of 2 units over 400 then the tangent--the slope--in degrees is .3. \r\nEven
    if the difference is 3 units over 400, then the slant in degrees is still less
    than .5 degrees. \r\n\r\nAnd FontLab reflects that in their not showing 1 degree
    in the measuring line, as you can see. The line below is 400 units high, and the
    top node is 2 units to the right of the bottom. Try it yourself. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/two-unit-slant_5096.gif]"
  created: '2007-06-15 19:32:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ">> \"A fifteenth part of a thousandth part of\r\n>> an inch is considered
    a factor of error.\"\r\n\r\nThat's pretty good! Damn shame about the inside corners
    though.  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-15 19:33:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> If the difference is of 2 units over 400\r\n\r\nWell then I guess it's
    not over 400!\r\n\r\nBecause if it were, a visual check would not indicate a 1
    degree slant.\r\nLacking the actual vector data, the way I'm measuring it is the
    least\r\nerror-prone. Your calculations are based on an unfounded assumption\r\nabout
    the height.\r\n\r\nDo this: measure the X and Y distances between the leftmost
    points.* You get 8 and 439. The arc-tangent of 8/439 = ~1.04 degrees. Interestingly,
    the X pixel distance between the two tangent points is in fact 2! Maybe that's
    the number Goran was providing. And their Y distance is 120. Not 400. With the
    arc-tangent of 2/120 being ~0.95 degrees.\r\n\r\n* Even though it's not a straight
    line, that's still what it translates to in slant.\r\n\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-15 19:47:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Your calculations are based on an unfounded assumption\r\nabout the height\r\n\r\nThat
    is a reasonable assumption, it seems to me. If this is the bottom of an i, it
    would be x height, and 400 is a small x-height. If it's an upper case I or and
    l the height would be bigger still, and the slope less. \r\n\r\n>X pixel distance
    between the two tangent points is in fact 2! Maybe that\u2019s the number Goran
    was providing\r\n\r\nYou don't have to speculate. Goran said \"about two steps
    on the grid in FontLab\". As I said even with three units it would be less than
    half a degree.  \r\n\r\nYou persist in not measuring it in FontLab, which is the
    relevant measure. \r\n\r\nAnyway, this is a silly argument. Goran can tell us
    the grid numbers, and that's all there is to know, basically. "
  created: '2007-06-15 20:07:17'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> but I\u2019m note sure what is best.\r\n\r\njust from one outline you can't
    tell 'what is the best'.  Maybe see/study Nueva (Carol Twombly) & Lydian\r\n\r\n
    Nueva:\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/type/browser/P/P_1107.html\r\n\r\nLydian:\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/bitstream/lydian/\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-15 20:34:18'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "Lol! You guys really can talk ;-)\r\n\r\nThe question wasn\u2018t about which
    degree it has, because that\u2018s not relevant at all. I was just hoping that
    someone had any experience that perhaps could help me decide on how to approach
    the stems (strictly technical).\r\n\r\nThanks for enjoying posts, however :)\r\n\r\nDavid
    I will check these fonts out. The thing is that I havent really found a similar
    font yet, that has both a small slant and a \"dynamic\"\r\n stem with thicker
    endings, but perhaps there are in these two fonts you are mentioning."
  created: '2007-06-15 23:30:27'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "And... for the record:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/slantdegreeee_5579.png]"
  created: '2007-06-16 10:15:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Ah, now I see that you are talking only about the points in the mid section--not
    the whole stem. \r\n\r\nThose are closer together than the top and bottom points,
    which is what I mistakenly thought you were talking about, so the trigonometry
    and Hrant are both right, and I'm wrong. "
  created: '2007-06-16 14:27:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> now I see that you are talking only about the points in the mid section\r\n\r\nAs
    was I, in the second half of my previous paragraph.\r\n\r\nBut the other two points
    also form a slant of 1 degree.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-16 15:49:24'
- author:
    name: russ_mcmullin
    picture: 112437
  body: Goran, I was looking forward to the responses to your actual question, but
    the slant seems to be a stronger point of interest. Perhaps you should take the
    slant off the letter, post a new picture, and ask the question again.
  created: '2007-06-16 16:51:19'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "For the record again;\r\n\r\n<cite>Ah, now I see that you are talking only
    about the points in the mid section\u2014not the whole stem.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo
    I was talking about the whole stem (as a whole) \u2013 but then of course \u2013
    the top of that stem (which was in fact only an example) was moving slowly to
    become thicker at the endings, so there the angle increases all the time the closer
    you get to the top ;-)\r\n\r\nRuss \u2013 Yeah, I should have done that, but the
    whole \"problem\" has to do with the appearence of the stems in smaller sizes,
    and how the hinting is working with the stems \u2013 which one is better at a
    small size, etc. So the angle is the key, but the number of the angle was not
    important.\r\n\r\nIf the letter was upright, I wouldnt have to post the question,
    because it\u2019s so much easier with straight lines and how they appear on screen
    etc.\r\n:)"
  created: '2007-06-16 19:27:18'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "I was wondering when Goran's actual question would be addressed...  :/ Nice
    swordfight though!\r\n\r\nGoran, you should probably read up on hinting to get
    a sense of how it works and what will happen in a case like yours. I hope you
    are solving this problem before drawing the whole character set; that is the wise
    thing to do. It's difficult to predict results until you test things out; the
    only guess I have is that autohinted stems will appear thinner than they are at
    low res. Still, hinting tools will give you an opportunity to choose the preferred
    stem weights, so undesirable thinning would not have to occur.  Are you interested
    in hinting (consistent stem weights at low res/small sizes)? If not, either method
    of construction you show should be fine, since they both give the shape you want.
    \r\n\r\nIf hinted performance is a major concern, I suggest you change the construction
    so that there are points on extrema. The simplest way to do that would be to add
    them to your simpler stem (shown on the right in your first image). Unfortunately
    FontLab is not good at doing this automatically; if you could use Fontographer
    to \"add points to extrema\" automatically, it would be quick and pretty accurate.
    Then you wouldn't have to re-draw each stem. \r\n\r\nFor other examples of slightly
    angled stems see Eras, which has flared stems as well, and Syntax, whose stems
    are not flared. \r\n\r\nIt hasn't been mentioned, and you seem certain of the
    need for this slight angle in the stems, but have you examined whether the angle
    is really necessary? Could you instead get a leaning effect by making the flares
    asymmetrical? You could also massage the shape slightly so that you don't need
    any additional points; if the top left and bottom right corners had bezier handles
    that are perfectly vertical. This image shows that construction and its filled
    appearance.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tapers_4573.gif]"
  created: '2007-06-16 21:01:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">the whole stem\r\n\r\nGoran, I took your 'about two steps in FontLab' to
    be about the position of the topmost points in your glyph relative to the bottommost
    points. If that were so, then the slant of the glyph would be less than half a
    degree. But the points you are evidently referring to in the 'two steps' are the
    upper and lower set of central points where the straight line is. If I get it
    right now, the top and bottom most points are clearly shifted further relative
    to each other, more than the two units of the middle set, in order to continue
    the same slope. \r\n\r\nAs to the straight lines, I don't think there is any technical
    problem, which is why nobody has come forward. It may be that you will get 'kinks'
    using Multiple Master or Superpolater in creating multiple weights, but I don't
    really know. \r\n\r\nEdit: Just saw Carl's post. Thanks, I was hoping you'd post
    because of your great experience doing the tapered stems of Beorcana! So hinting
    is the main question... \r\n\r\n>FontLab is not good at doing this automatically\r\n\r\nCarl,
    in FontLab, I use Font Audit to identify extrema, and click on 'fix' where I want
    to have an extremum. Are you saying that Font Audit doesn't identify and place
    extrema accurately? "
  created: '2007-06-16 21:03:46'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "Thanks Carl for such nice explanation. I have experimented with this all
    day now, and I think I will end up with the extrema points after all \u2013 and
    only them. It can produce the look I want, and it also makes the AFDK Autohinting
    results better. Btw, I am not a hinting expert, but slowly learning this (I think...).\r\n\r\nWhat
    I noticed, when having two tangents on each side of the stem, was that in some
    sizes on screen, it sort of flipped out. The letter looked like two straight stems
    that was shifted a little bit apart from each other. With this solution, it looks
    good both with or without hinting.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/extremapoiiiiints_6584.png]"
  created: '2007-06-16 22:13:07'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "<cite>If that were so, then the slant of the glyph would be less than half
    a degree.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, that should be a much smaller slant :)"
  created: '2007-06-16 22:17:39'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "<cite>It hasn\u2019t been mentioned, and you seem certain of the need for
    this slight angle in the stems, but have you examined whether the angle is really
    necessary?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt is needed, I am doing a digitization (Hrm, is it called
    that?) of a hand drawn typeface done in 1987."
  created: '2007-06-16 22:20:40'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"Are you saying that Font Audit doesn\u2019t identify and place extrema
    accurately?\"\r\n\r\nFontLab also has the feature allowing you to select outlines,
    or bunches of characters, and apply the \"add points to extrema\" function. This
    is the function that seems petulant in that it simply won't add a point if the
    extrema isn't really obvious. A case like Goran's is exactly what FL won't reliably
    handle. Using the FontAudit function might be more accurate (if so, why?), but
    it would take a lot longer, since you have to step through the glyphs. \r\n\r\nFontographer
    had a magical ability to clean up points and add points to extrema without mangling
    the intended shape, and it does this operation on any number of outlines you want.
    Someday....  ;)\r\n\r\nGoran, I think you found the best solution. It allows you
    to apply hinting, which you can control somewhat, without changing the original
    design. I like this as an example of maintaining fidelity to a design; getting
    PS outlines to obey the drawings, not the reverse. "
  created: '2007-06-16 23:11:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">add points to extrema without mangling the intended shape\r\n\r\nOh, I see
    what you mean. When I use the 'fix' in fontaudit, it does often mangle the shape
    when when it adds the extremum,though my feeling is that it does get the extremum
    at the right place. \r\n\r\nWhen I do this I paste the glyph to mask first, and
    then correct the messed up shape back to the mask by hand; it would be great if
    it restored the original shape too. I also do it step by step instead of control-e,
    as that kind of gets out of hand, and sometimes I don't want to do them all, and
    I have to correct anyway. It sounds like in Fontographer all that work around
    is not necessary.  "
  created: '2007-06-16 23:41:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Could you instead get a leaning effect by making the flares asymmetrical?\r\n\r\nSee
    FF Avance for a great example of that.\r\n\r\n> I took your \u2018about two steps
    in FontLab\u2019 to be about the position of \r\n> the topmost points in your
    glyph relative to the bottommost points.\r\n\r\nWhich it very well could be, if
    the height were about 110. Goran's original screenshot shows a lateral separation
    of 8, which is what you would get at a zoom of 400%! But anyway in no case has
    any assumption about the <cite>height</cite> on our part been safe.\r\n\r\n> nobody
    has come forward\r\n\r\nIn my first post of June 15 I suggested what Carl later
    said about extrema:\r\n\"Personally I would do the right one, but place the points
    at the maxima:\r\nabout 3/4 of the way up on the left, and 3/4 of the way down
    on the right.\"\r\n\r\nThe froth must have impaired your reading ability.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-17 04:31:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">nobody has come forward\r\n\r\nHrant you are reading stuff into my comment
    that isn't there.  I wasn't discussing the suggestion of putting points at extrema.\r\n\r\nBecause
    Goran still expressed the desire for help on something 'technical' *after* your
    post, I figured he had been looking for some kind of 'technical' information that
    hadn't been discussed yet. Since he responded to Carl's post positively, I now
    think what he was looking for is the impact on hinting, which hadn't been discussed
    before. \r\n\r\nCarl's discussion of the various options was interesting also.
    \ "
  created: '2007-06-17 05:45:59'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "A follow up;\r\n\r\nDo this value in anyway effect the font, visually, technical
    or in any other way? Or is it just a number, and a help when placing the diacritics?
    I always wondered about this, and since we are talking about angles here, maybe
    we can solve this too? :)\r\n\r\nThanks for all help, btw. All of you.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/slantangle_6445.png]"
  created: '2007-06-17 11:09:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I thought you said this is the Roman style?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-17 14:17:44'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "Yes, this is the Roman style, but it is slightly slanted in its appearance.
    I think we\u2018ve mentioned that a couple of times now.\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s really
    nice, looks human and alive in a nice way.\r\n\r\nAny advanced info on this checkbox?"
  created: '2007-06-17 15:44:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "My point is, if it's the Roman, you leave it/them zero (I think).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-17 16:17:20'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "<cite>...(I think).</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, but I want to know."
  created: '2007-06-17 16:37:17'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'It can be used by FL scripts that will build composites for you; if the glyphs
    are all placed correctly, the script will use that italic angle to shift the accents.
    This is something I do a different way, so I''m not convinced it works right all
    the time. In any case you would have to adjust accents by hand anyway. '
  created: '2007-06-18 22:11:15'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" ... slightly angled stems see Eras\" which is like 5 degrees?\r\n\r\nI've
    never seen a 1. The issue I'm aware of with regards to this proposal is that a
    \"lively humanist\" face should have a variation of 2-3 degrees from say, the
    \"b\" which may lean more, to the \"f\" which may lean less, about a main angle,
    say, \"l\".\r\n\r\nI'm not sure how I'd do that in a one degree sloped face...
    :-o"
  created: '2007-06-19 21:44:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I\u2019ve never seen a 1.\r\n\r\nYou've seen Syntax.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-19 21:52:51'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nSounds like Goran is digitizing original drawings. He hasn't
    mentioned whether he will make changes to the original."
  created: '2007-06-19 22:47:12'
date: '2007-06-14 20:16:35'
node_type: forum
title: Best way to place the points

---
