---
author:
  name: Stefan Seifert
  picture: 112624
body: "Hi Centaur Fans!\r\nIs anyone still interested in Centaur faces? I am a new
  member of typophile. The reason for me to finally enter was the discussion of Centaur
  typeface. Yet, some time has passed ;-) (it is dated 2004)\r\nThank you Raph for
  the impressive good scans of the Bible. How did you get them? Great material!\r\nI
  wanted to add that a beautiful Centaur (I believe) was done and hopefully still
  exists during the \u201CValdonega Aesthetic Line\u201D project brought to live in
  the 90\u2019s by the Stamperia Valdonega, Verona or better to say Martino Mardersteig
  son of the great printer Giovanni Mardersteig. We did (I was so happy to join this
  project those days) a version in several sizes (8, 12, 16) very very close to hotmetal
  Montotype version. I later on added some characters to achieve the first handprinted
  version (1913/14). I think the face is still available there if you want to print
  from it at the Stamperia because the type will not be available on the fontmarket
  and I think Mardersteig had his good reasons for so much work was needed.\r\nI think
  he will allow me to show something for I done the digitalisation myself and I am
  quite proud of it, I have to admit. We used a very special design technique. I added
  also a text that explained a bit. I was very young yet at those times and I have
  to excuse for my very bad and somewhat striking English. But maybe it could be interesting
  to add something to current discussions if there are any now.\r\nLast word to Jenson
  Adobe. I do believe Centaur in the original version ist more close to Jensons real
  style than the Adobe font which is to my eyes too round too soft and some letters
  aren\u2019t very nice especiall \u2018g\u2019 and \u2018a\u2019. Although I do admire
  the abstract and nice modern serif treatment in enlargement.\r\nThanks so far\r\nhope
  someone will talk to me\r\nPS couldn\u2019t attach the text for he doesn\u2019t
  allow me pdf. Or is there a way?\r\nStefan\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Letters_4651.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Very nice to hear from somebody involved in the Valdonega designs!\r\nThose
    fonts are like secret jewels, and I've long admired the early\r\nadoption of optical
    scaling in digital type. And I think as long as\r\nValdonega can maintain success
    as printers due (partly) to those\r\nproprietary fonts, not releasing them retail
    makes perfect sense.\r\n\r\nI have a small specimen of the VAL fonts that I got
    from a conference some\r\nyears ago, but of course anything more you can divulge
    would be great!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Stefan Seifert
      picture: 112624
    body: "Those fonts are like secret jewels\r\n\r\n\r\nYes they are! Specially the
      last ones as Centaur and Garamond and also\r\nthe improved Dante. Dante for
      example you cannot at all compare to the standard\r\nversion on the market,
      this one really has some of the edgy and yet sensible feeling of its designer.
      Here comes Charles Malin into the discussion. And more oven their Griffo Design
      (that was never done)...\r\n\r\nIts a petty, I think it will be difficult to
      get more printed material in terms of specimen because in the later times of
      the project Mardersteig didn\u2019t want to spend so much on these things for
      financial reasons. I could send you a folded paper (A4) of a Baskerville specimen
      but its not the very best probe of what was done.\r\n\r\nLets talk later if
      you want I have to go to work now..\r\n\r\nStefan\r\n\r\nGreat to hear from
      you \r\n\r\nthis is a page I once set from Centaur 16 pt copying a page set
      by\r\nGiovanni Mardersteig I don\u2019t remember the title of the book now (barbiere..?)\r\nthis
      page was almost identic with its original hotmetal version.\r\nIf you want I
      can tell you later some of its design secrets because I did strange\r\nthings
      with bezier curves ;-)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Centaur_VAL_hotmetal_3728.jpg]"
    created: '2007-06-18 07:29:27'
  created: '2007-06-17 14:51:03'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: Very interesting work. I'm about to go to breakfast and worship, so I don't
    have time right now for a detailed post, but please take a look at the <a href="http://levien.com/type/myfonts/Centaur.pdf">PDF</a>
    of all the outlines I've drawn so far on this project. I will follow up later
    on the points you bring up.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Stefan Seifert
      picture: 112624
    body: "Great!\r\n\r\nI am going to work also now.\r\nBut I couldn\u2019t do without
      watching your Designs even though I will be late now ;-)\r\nGreat! I saw that
      you also did the original foundry type. I am very impressed.\r\nPlease go on.
      Lets talk more about it if you like.\r\nVery nice your designs!\r\n\r\nStefan"
    created: '2007-06-18 07:18:47'
  created: '2007-06-17 16:32:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">If you want I can tell you later some of its design secrets because I did
    strange things with bezier curves ;-)\r\n\r\nI'd be very interested to see a few
    examples of your approach, with the nodes and handles of the bezier curves shown."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Stefan Seifert
      picture: 112624
    body: "Hi William, hi Hrant,\r\n\r\nsecrets? ;-) Ok, maybe I exaggerated a little
      ;-)\r\nSeriously, when we worked at the fonst for the VAL project the greatest
      problem seems to be the blackness of the characters printed by hotmetal press.
      (Please excuse my bad English when I try to explain - its the only one I have
      ;-) The guys at the Stamperia had tried a lot also before I entered the project.
      Seemed a problem without solution. Mardersteig never seemed quite content and
      neither we. Certainly we tried to blow up outlines but even when we arrived
      at typefaces that could be called bold we didn\u2019t succeed in giving the
      feeling of blackness. I don\u2019t know if I explain right. In part this defect
      obviously from the lacking of the pressure of the letters into the paper and
      the lack of colour in the offset-black which is a delusion after all. But when
      I made the experiment reproducing hotmetal pages and restamping them in offset
      they still look great in comparison. So I did experiment a lot with bezier curves
      because I believe in part it could be a problem of nature of form. This is quite
      daring I think because one could believe that basicly every form can be reporduced
      by bezier curves. But I still believe that they can\u2019t. Its in first the
      line the problem of the places where two lets say more or less round forms link
      to each other. For example a letter stem when it becomes a serif. This zone
      is very difficult and if you wish to understand and reproduce forms spontanously
      its almost impossible to catch these zones in a good way. Or you do a thing
      to round too smooth or too much with an angle. And you cannot add points and
      points to define better. We all know that. So one day I found a special way
      to put curve points that form a stem slightly displaced with tangents remaining
      parallel and when this forms enter the serif I did it at 90 degrees. More or
      less like in the picture that I add. \r\nMoreover the scan process seemed to
      wash out the letters like a stone from water. They lack determination somehow.
      Not easy to explain it. Maybe also that I am crazy. So this little trick seemed
      to force the computer while reinterpretating the characters when doing the films
      to fill the zones where one form goes into another with additional bit-points
      there where they have been swept away during the scanning. May sound funny but
      it worked!\r\nThe Centaur page was made with characters like that. Obviously
      it is impossible to sell them because they work only in the very size from which
      they were scanned. If you enlarge them the outline errors reveal. But if you
      use the 16 point as 16 point it is impossible to see it and the character appears
      slightly more rough more organic somehow. \r\nWell, at those times we worked
      in FontStudio and I would not repeat this method in FontLab now but I still
      believe it was a quite interesting method. And I am still convinced that the
      greatest problem of nearly all modern faces is that the lack vitality because
      they are somehow too smooth too round at least to represent originals from the
      past.\r\n\r\nStefan\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bild-1_4738.gif][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bild-2_6705.gif]"
    created: '2007-06-18 19:06:44'
  created: '2007-06-18 10:32:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, please - secrets are always welcome!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-18 14:24:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks, Stefan, that is fascinating. \r\n\r\nI see what you did is introduce
    a deliberate undulation in the line. The result is that the outlines don't look
    like you made a mistake and left a 'lump' in a bezier outline. Instead the outlines
    look more like they were chiseled out, as in the old days of punch cutting with
    a chisel.  \r\n\r\nNice effect! \r\n\r\nI am working on a classic revival also.
    I probably won't do this as I want a more updated, modern look, but I will try
    on a few characters and see the effect. Thanks for sharing your ideas. \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2007-06-19 18:51:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This is indeed fascinating.\r\nAnd I can even picture a way to automate this
    so that\r\n\"plain\" bezier outlines are easily given the chisel effect...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Stefan Seifert
      picture: 112624
    body: "Thanks guys!\r\n\r\nYes I found also it could have something to do with
      the more spontaneous way of making forms like in a punchcut (although I never
      done that). The thing is that the kind of forms you need in a classic redesign
      come out more easily I found. But I probably will not do this again, too. Its
      hard to do it with FontLab for here everything is so damned clear ;-)\r\nNot
      like in the old days of pixeled FontStudio working. I am not sure wether this
      is overall such a great advantage. Anyone there who works with Anti-Alias switched
      on?\r\n\r\nBy the way, Wow, there is someone who got to know Christian Paput?\r\nWhen
      I was beginning typedesign I started (tried) with a wonderful Garamond (I draw
      only by hand producing later black letters putting them together later in darkroom
      work) They at the Imprimerie were so kind to send me a wonderful specimen of
      Garamont (with the t at the end) I heard of him wanted to see the Imprimerie
      but didn\u2019t make it.\r\n\r\nI have great respect of the punchcuttes first
      of all I believe the work of Malin was extremely good, wasn\u2019t it? I always
      had great admiration for the Griffo of Malin and Mardersteig.\r\nOne of the
      rare cases I find that the recutting was more beautiful than its original for
      I found the types in Aldus always a little stiffy (the right word? I doubt so)\r\n\r\nThank
      your for your interest here!\r\nIts great to hear that one is not alone with
      this kind of things in mind!\r\n\r\nSalute\r\nStefan\r\n\r\nJenson detail\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Jenson_g_detail_3465.gif]"
    created: '2007-06-20 06:34:05'
  created: '2007-06-19 20:06:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>...as in the old days of punch cutting with a chisel.</em>\r\n\r\nGraver."
  created: '2007-06-19 20:07:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Burin?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-19 20:38:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Yes, burin is probably the correct term for the type of graver used in cutting
    type. Mine used to belong to Christian Paput at the Imprimerie nationale. The
    back of the blade has been ground in ways that I have not seen on typical engraver's
    burins, creating a sharper, narrower point. It is quite clever: there are two
    planes between the point and the back of the blade, which allow for a sharper
    point while maintaining strength.\r\n\r\n[Burin comes from the French word for
    cold chisel, which may confuse some people. An engraver's or punchcutter's burin
    is nothing like a cold chisel.]"
  created: '2007-06-19 23:16:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'John, do you have any pictures? '
  created: '2007-06-20 00:04:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John can probably provide nice color photos, but otherwise you can see monochrome
    images of what might well be the very same burin in Paput's \"The Punchcutting\".
    I don't know what he's up to now, but when the IN was still in place he very graciously
    gave me a tour of that amazing institution, and some of the things I saw there
    are indelibly burned into my memory!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-20 00:22:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I'll try to take some photos tomorrow, if the light is better. It is a difficult
    oject to photograph.
  created: '2007-06-20 04:58:19'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Stefan\r\n\r\nI love what you have done with this font. Coincidentally I
    was looking a rather similar font that was used by Mondadori in Italy in the 1940s.
    Richard Beatty helped me identify the font as Monotype Pastonchi. Originally I
    had thought it was some variation of Centaur. It has a similar elegance and its
    richness on the printed page illustrates what you were speaking about \u2014 that
    deep black of letterpress which is so hard to reproduce digitally. The book here
    was a collection of poems by Salvatore Quasimodo.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Quasimodo002sm_5072.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Quasimodo001sm_5278.jpg]"
  created: '2008-01-27 11:14:22'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "Eluard, Pastonchi is indeed a fine typeface.\r\n\r\nIt was art directed by
    Francesco Pastonchi himself and designed by Eduardo Cotti of the Regia Scuola
    Tipografica in Torino. Pastonchi wanted to use it on the new series of books on
    the classics of Italian literature. Initially the Italian foundry Nebiolo was
    to cut the typeface but for economic reasons it became impossible. Coming full-circle
    from Stefan\u2019s original post, it was through Giovanni Mardersteig that Mondadori
    and Pastonchi got in touch with Stanley Morison and had Monotype cut the type,
    both the final version and the many revisions and proofing versions that needed
    to be done to the original drawings. \r\n\r\nThere is <a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/3305/francescopastonchi.html\">a
    digital version of Pastonchi on sale by Linotype</a> but I don\u2019t know if
    it\u2019s any good."
  created: '2008-01-27 14:56:26'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>There is a digital version of Pastonchi on sale by Linotype but I don\u2019t
    know if it\u2019s any good.</cite>\r\n\r\nSome of those alternates are worthy
    of a little hyperbole."
  created: '2008-01-27 16:02:48'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "verbosus \u2014 many thanks for that additional background information, this
    was exactly what I was after. In fact I bought the digital version from Linotype
    (in OpenType!) last night. So, with the acknowledgment that I've had very little
    time to work with it, it seems to be a remarkably faithful rendition of the metal
    type, much darker than Monotype's usual rather thin digitalisations. This one
    has real power and character. \r\n\r\nI am doing some translations of Quasimodo's
    poems and setting the above scan next to a translation set in digital Pastonchi
    makes me think that the latter is not embarrassed by the comparison. (Though I
    had to loosen up the digital version a little, both the letterpacing and the word
    spacing.)\r\n\r\nDo you happen to know what typeface was used by the publisher
    Giulio Einaudi, who published Eugenio Montale's first too books? (Montale's third
    was printed by Mardersteig himself, in Dante, I think.)\r\n\r\nThanks again"
  created: '2008-01-27 23:31:21'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "Eluard, I don\u2019t know the specifics of the first two Montale books (if
    you want to send me an image, my contacts are on <a href=\"http://cavedoni.com/\">my
    home page</a>) but it\u2019s possible that they have been set in Simoncini Garamond,
    as that typeface was custom-designed by Simoncini and Ludwig & Mayer specifically
    for Einaudi. In fact, Mondadori (with Pastonchi) and Einaudi (with Simoncini Garamond)
    are the first examples of custom type designs in the modern history of publishing
    in Italy."
  created: '2008-01-28 09:20:08'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Verbosus \u2014 many thanks again. I will send you a scan, but I suspect
    you are right. What struck me about the Einaudi face was just how rich it was
    in contextual alternatives \u2014 it's really beautifully done! Alas digital Simoncini,
    though very nice, has no such subtleties. Here's hoping for an open type version
    with some effort put into it!\r\n\r\nEinaudi and Mondadori books make me long
    for a time when care was taken in the production of poetry books. Even in the
    austerity of war they were wonderful objects."
  created: '2008-01-28 12:37:21'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "Yes, <a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/1476/simoncinigaramond-family.html\">digital
    Simoncini Garamond as sold by Linotype</a> doesn\u2019t have old style figures
    nor small caps. As far as I know, the rights to the typeface at the moment are
    held by Linotype (possibly through <a href=\"http://www.neufville.com/\">Neufville</a>,
    which should have acquired the rights of the old foundry Ludwig & Mayer which
    in turn consulted on many Simoncini typefaces). I don\u2019t think an OpenType
    version is in the works, but one never knows.\r\n\r\nIf you like Mondadori and
    Einaudi I think you\u2019d love to see books published by either Alberto and <a
    href=\"http://www.talloneeditore.it/\">Enrico Tallone</a> or Giovanni and  <a
    href=\"http://www.stamperiavaldonega.it/\">Martino Mardersteig</a>."
  created: '2008-01-28 13:52:17'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi Eluard,\r\n\r\nbiefly (I am at work)\r\nHave you seen the Valdonega Aesthethic
    Line typefaces?\r\nTry to contact Mardersteig,\r\nhe will be pleased.\r\n\r\nAt
    13, march there will be a little exponation of his stuff.\r\nI will make a little
    little speech ;-))\r\n\r\nYour pages you shown are beautiful indeed.\r\nDon\u2019t
    try to achieve this with the digital stuff in common use..\r\n\r\nLets speak more
    about these things\r\nlooking forward to it\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2008-01-29 08:27:13'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: 'Simoncini Garamond with small caps & OSF is available here: http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/efscangraphic/garamond-simoncini-sb/roman-sc/'
  created: '2008-01-29 08:44:39'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "Stefan: can you provide more informations about this Mardersteig exposition?
    If it\u2019s in Italy I\u2019d love to attend."
  created: '2008-01-29 10:03:43'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "Nevermind, I found some informations on the (new) Valdonega books Web site.
    The exhibition will open at the <a href=\"http://www.valdonegabooks.it/en/node/114\">Museum
    f\xFCr Druckkunst, in Leipzig</a>."
  created: '2008-01-29 10:10:10'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Thanks verbosus \u2014 I tried your web page but I only got the index of
    usage. I will post the Simoncini to this thread, below. It's worth a public display
    somewhere.\r\n\r\nStefan \u2014 many thanks, I will try to contact Martino.\r\n\r\nloremipsum
    \u2014 thanks for pointing me in that direction. And they are Open Type too!"
  created: '2008-01-29 10:14:06'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Here is a page from the 1945 Einaudi edition of Montale's Le Occasioni, set,
    as noted by verbosus, in Simoncini Garamond.\r\n\r\nNote the alternative t's in
    the double t's The second is shorter in some words, giving a falling effect. In
    some it is the same height and in some (not shown) it is taller. In this way the
    typesetter has subtly enhanced and reinforced the mood of these sad love poems.
    The descenders of the font are completely unlike the Monotype digitalisation,
    which are far too short. Here is a supremely elegant typeface, set by someone
    sympathetic with the work. (I think there are also two c's but I can't be sure.)\r\n\r\nMontale's
    next book was set in Mardersteig's Dante.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Quasimodo004_5801.jpg]"
  created: '2008-01-29 10:23:24'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "Eluard, I don\u2019t know what it is, but I don\u2019t think what you have
    there is Simoncini Garamond. For one, Simoncini wasn\u2019t making matrices in
    1945 and Simoncini Garamond came much later, around the 60\u2019s I think. If
    you want to send me a higher-resolution scan I fixed my home page now and you\u2019ll
    find my contact details there."
  created: '2008-01-29 14:56:22'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Thanks verbosus \u2014 I will. I'm very curious now as to what it is!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-29 21:16:21'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi Eluard, verbosus,\r\n\r\nvery nice that Garamond!\r\n\r\nIf you come to
    the exhibition at Leipzig, verbosus, we may meet us there!\r\nAre you in Italy?
    (I loved to be, but I am not :-((((\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2008-02-05 16:40:40'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "Just to tie up a couple of loose ends. The typeface posted above by Eluard
    was <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/41673\">identified by Mike Yanega as being
    Estienne in another thread</a>. As for Leipzig, Stefan, I\u2019m afraid I don\u2019t
    think I\u2019ll be able to attend \u2013 because yes, I am in Italy \u2013 but
    I do want to get in touch with Valdonega and see if there are any plans for the
    exhibition to move back here, eventually."
  created: '2008-02-10 23:54:18'
- author:
    name: Stan Nelson
    picture: 127818
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Gravers_4724.jpg]\r\n\r\nThese gravers
    have been prepared in the manner used at the Imprimerie Nationale, Paris.  They
    are straight gravers, with the back cut away on a wet grind stone, and the cutting
    face ground on an India stone. There is a tiny micro-bevel on the tip.  Chisels
    are used to do rough cutting on extremely large punches, however most punches
    are cut with files and gravers.  Wooden handles are also appropriate, but the
    champagne cork is very comfortable -- and so much more fun to acquire.\r\n\r\n(I've
    attempted to reduce this file to an appropriate size. We'll see.)"
  created: '2014-11-12 12:17:07'
- author:
    name: Stan Nelson
    picture: 127818
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/36BodoniE_4006.JPG]\\\r\n\r\nHere is
    a punch, strike, and matrix made using the above gravers. This sample was engraved
    for an exhibit prepared by the Greek Font Society.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-11-12 12:34:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Great stuff.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-11-12 14:35:37'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "It is wonderful to learn about additional typefaces that are excellent. (It
    is also a joy to learn in this thread that Pastonchi was digitized in a way that
    does it justice.) But in looking at Pastonchi, though, I think I can see a reason
    why it has not been more widely used of late.\r\n\r\nMaybe I am wrong, because
    the typeface in general is suited to artistic work similar to private press books,
    and there is little of that in any case. But it seems to me that at least some
    people will take one look at the lowercase \"k\" in that typeface, and decide
    that it makes it dated, and eliminate it from consideration. (It is easy to shoot
    back that such people do not have good typographic taste, but of course in fact
    it is central to good practice as a typographer not simply to choose beautiful
    typefaces, but to choose typefaces which are suited to the work being printed.
    I suspect there are many cases of typefaces which too seldom get to be used by
    the people who <em>should</em> be using them - because they are not well enough
    known, and the kinds of work to which they are suited do not come along often.)\r\n\r\nAlso,
    the capital letters are interesting in their own right, and could possibly be
    combined with a somewhat different style of lower case than the one in the actual
    typeface.\r\n\r\nBut then, the main reason why it is not widely used today may
    simply be because it wasn't widely used back in 1927, and so it is not well-known."
  created: '2014-11-12 22:51:38'
date: '2007-06-17 13:01:46'
title: Centaur fonts

---
