---
author:
  name: RachelR
body: "Hi all,\r\n\r\nAre Fontlabs drawing tools really better than Illustrators.
  I've only just started trying to draw with Fontlab while I've used Illustrator for
  years, but I'm finding it really difficult to do simple things that are a snip to
  do in Illustrator.\r\n\r\n\r\nRr  "
comments:
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: It's because you are not used to FontLab. Illustrator has great drawing tools,
    but for letters, FontLab works better, once you are used to it. Besides, the biggest
    pain point for drawing fonts in Illustrator is getting the letters into FontLab.
    Drawing in FontLab solves that problem beautifully ;)
  created: '2007-06-18 18:00:14'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I echo what Christian said. \r\n\r\nAdditionally you might want to know that
    many things that are totally okay in illustrator in terms of point placement,
    Bezier angles, etc are not going to be so okay in a font. That is because the
    engine that interprets illustrator files is much more complex than the many &
    various engines that interpret font files. Disregarding this reality can cause
    weird bugs, printing errors or even no printing. Fontlab is more 'constrained'
    to help you keep your font from being a menace. ;-)\r\n\r\nIf you are going to
    just make one font you can look up Adam Twardoch's tutorial/explanation about
    how to make your letterforms go from Illustrator files into Fontlab and skip some
    of the learning curve. You will probably want to run some Fontlab scripts/routines
    on your outlines though. Like 'place points at extrema' & Maybe 'simplify' & so
    on. That will help.\r\n\r\nHowever, if you want to make say... 5 fonts or more
    I suggest you embrace the learning curve and go 'all Fontlab'.\r\n\r\nThe other
    thing is yo might want to post some samples on Typophile for technical critique.
    Or other kinds if you want that too."
  created: '2007-06-18 19:24:38'
- author:
    name: RachelR
  body: "Eben,\r\n\r\nI do want to embrace the learning curve in Fontlab but I'm finding
    it difficult to do what would be really simple in Illustrator. \r\n\r\nIn a post
    form early today I was asking about aligning two outlines, in that case it was
    the slash form the Oslash. In this situation is it a case of having to center
    the slash by eye or is there a method of centering the slash on top the O gylph.
    \r\n\r\nThe soultion I was using involved placing the slash as a seperate glyph
    and then adding that glyph as a compent which I could then center, then decompose
    and finally deleting the slash gylph. I'm sure there must be a better method than
    this.\r\n\r\nRr "
  created: '2007-06-18 19:52:18'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Rachel,\r\n\r\nIt sounds  as if you are new to type design. Once you are
    in the mindset to make a typeface (as opposed to simply drawing a bunch of outlines),
    more and more of FontLab will make sense. I repeat what I've said here many times
    before: You find FL difficult because you're used to Illustrator. But Illustrator
    can't make a font. FL can do everything. The simple solution is to commit; go
    through the learning curve with FontLab and discover the many many advantages
    to having all your type design tools in one place. Once you've got experience
    with both, you discover that niether is \"better\" or easier to use; it's just
    a dead end to keep drawing letters in Illustrator when you have to move them to
    FL to make a font anyway. Aligning, spacing, kerning, are all operations so basic
    to type design, and yet you can't do them in Illustrator. Don't believe that the
    same operation won't be as simple in FL; it's just that you're comfortable in
    Illustrator right now. In a week of intensive use you can get comfortable with
    FontLab. \r\n\r\nMaking an accented character is typically a more methodical process.
    Accents are useful for more than one accented character: make an accent and then
    use it in composites for a whole bunch of accented letters (agrave egrave igrave
    ograve ugrave etc.). You don't ever have to decompose them, and it's a time-saver
    to have the accent by itself, available as an ingredient to make more accented
    characters from. Composites allow you to make changes to the accent or to the
    base character that are propagated in the composite character. If you use your
    current method you would re-do a lot of work. "
  created: '2007-06-18 22:06:46'
- author:
    name: RachelR
  body: "crossgrove,\r\n\r\nI understand I need to leave Illustrator and start drawing
    in Fontlab, and I understand that fontlab containes everything I need, but I'm
    just struggling with some minor points.\r\n\r\nThe example I talked about using
    composites wasn't creating glyphs with accents as it would normally be used, but
    it was a work around I devised to try and solve the problem of centering the slash
    in the Oslash glyph. \r\n\r\nEveryone ha sbeen really helpful here but I still
    carn't work out if Fontlab has a method of centering such things or if it's best
    doing by eye.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/34540\r\n\r\n\r\nRr\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-18 22:40:07'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "See that:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/wiki/Learn%20FontLab%20Fast\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/wiki/Designing%20Type"
  created: '2007-06-18 23:23:52'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Sometimes the reason things are different in FL won't be clear and then you
    will realize 'why' later & sometimes Fontlab may just suck in one way or another.
    The reality overall doesn't change though. \r\n\r\nMoreover, while FL may have
    \ a tool for centering things, even if it does you may well be better off doing
    it by eye. Mathematically correct is often not right when it comes to the eye.
    \r\n\r\nFor more on this see this:\r\n\r\nhttp://briem.ismennt.is/\r\n\r\nBut
    especially this\r\n\r\nhttp://briem.ismennt.is/2/2.3.2a/2.3.2.06.illusion.htm\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-19 03:22:07'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Also, keep in mind you are designing not one glyph, and then another one
    -  but all of the glyph relationships. \r\n\r\nOne really great glyph means almost
    nothing. A mesh of great relationships between glyphs means almost everything."
  created: '2007-06-19 03:25:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'With regard to the mathematical vs optical, the O and o slash actually are
    good examples. Note that they in effect have two of the ''x'' style illusions
    in them of the kind that Briem mentions. As Mark Jamra notes <a href="http://typeculture.com/academic_resource/articles_essays/pdfs/tc_article_6.pdf">here</a>,
    to make it look ''right'' you may want to rotate the middle line relative to the
    others. In this case what ''centers'' can only be done by eye, particularly if
    your O and o are not vertically symmetrical. '
  created: '2007-06-19 03:39:57'
- author:
    name: russ_mcmullin
    picture: 112437
  body: I like the drawing tools in FontLab, but I'm much faster in Illustrator. Too
    bad there aren't tutorial videos for FontLab. It would be cool to see an expert
    work the tools in realtime. I may fully convert at some point, but I haven't really
    been frustrated with pasting the glyphs from Illustrator into FontLab. It's easy.
    It's fast. The only thing that frustrates me about FontLab is kerning. If I can
    figure that out, I'll be set.
  created: '2007-06-19 07:28:18'
- author:
    name: kiko
    picture: 112433
  body: "Rachel,\r\n\r\nPrecisely...\r\ni\xB4ve also posted that question some days
    ago about the same issue concernig a method to align shapes in FL without having
    to compose/decompose glyphs.\r\nNobody replyed though...\r\nI know opticaly is
    the way to do it, however aligning mathematical could be a good start point.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-19 13:24:30'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Rachel:\r\n\r\nI was like you the first time I launched FL to draw letters.
    I was used to work with Illustratror since is first version (88). I did some switch
    in the beginning (draw in Illustrator, import in FL, go back and forth between
    those two of them...).  However, I learn FL and his tools, with the Cabarga manual
    and now I find FL is very in first place and works better to draw letters."
  created: '2007-06-19 15:00:34'
- author:
    name: ilynam
    picture: 111282
  body: If you are dead set on using Illustrator, use Illustrator 8, draw all your
    glyphs and copy and paste 'em in- less wackiness, handles gone astray, and doubled-up
    points than more recent versions.
  created: '2007-06-20 20:01:05'
- author:
    name: RachelR
  body: "Just thought I would come back and say - yes Fontlab is better than illustrator
    for drawing letters. Its only been a few days and I'm still working stuff out
    but I've saved a ton of time already.\r\n\r\nWish I'd made the move sooner.\r\n\r\nThanks
    for all your response.\r\n\r\nRr  "
  created: '2007-06-22 11:50:16'
- author:
    name: weinziet
    picture: 110727
  body: "I've been struggling with the same dilemma. I'm sick of using Illustrator,
    and the tools in FL are made specifically for type. The learning curve is there,
    for sure. The wiki here is useful, and FL has a PDF manual for free download.\r\n\r\nThe
    next face I start will be drawn in FL. "
  created: '2007-06-22 17:09:44'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Rachel, \r\n\r\nYour recent message is the best post in the thread! Congratulations.
    You work quickly! \r\n\r\nNot-so-comforting thought: FL has some severe bugs and
    non-intuitive functions, but overall I marvel at the power it has, for things
    I always wanted, like putting an entire font in the background, and building all
    my composites in a single operation. It's deep like Photoshop is. And I do expect
    FL to improve; the programmers are very nice and very talented and have been absorbing
    a lot of feedback since Studio 5 came out. "
  created: '2007-06-22 17:36:14'
- author:
    name: russ_mcmullin
    picture: 112437
  body: I keep hoping someone will give more details about how "FontLab is better
    for drawing letters". I don't autotrace, and I already draw with points at extrema,
    so what other things make FontLab easier? Rachel, how are you saving time?
  created: '2007-06-23 07:28:51'
- author:
    name: RachelR
  body: "Russ,\r\n\r\nThe time saved is not drawing in Illustartor and then having
    to copy into FL, it dosen't sound like much but when I'm copying 200+ glyphs,
    the time adds up. The points in fonlab will only snap to the grid (I hope so anyway),
    but in Illustrator even with snap to grid on and the grid set up correctly I found
    that some points will move when copied into FL. I found it really frustrating
    that I spent the time drawing in Illustrator to then have something slightly differnt
    in FL.\r\n\r\nI've only just started drawing in FL, so I'm no expert but I found
    it really simple to pick up. I think I've finally realized that drawing in FL
    cuts out the middle man. Crossgroves first post on this thread sums it up for
    me.\r\n\r\nRr\r\n  "
  created: '2007-06-23 11:16:31'
- author:
    name: russ_mcmullin
    picture: 112437
  body: 'Thanks for the response Rachel. I''ve noticed only very slight differences
    in the shapes of my glyphs when I paste them back to Illustrator from FontLab
    - nothing drastic enough to worry me. Are you seeing big differences? Pasting
    the letters in does take some time, but it actually goes pretty fast for me. It''s
    a drop in the bucket compared to the time it takes to kern. I also like the wide
    open space that Illustrator gives to work in, especially when I''m experimenting
    with alternate characters. '
  created: '2007-06-23 17:07:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Leslie Cabarga explains that the basic difference between Font drawing programs
    and Illustrator is that when you delete a point, the line doesn''t collapse in,
    but springs out. This is useful for shaping curves, as the ''sprung'' curve will
    have a simpler geometry, with no lumps. You can then decide whether you want the
    extra node or not. '
  created: '2007-06-23 17:51:55'
- author:
    name: russ_mcmullin
    picture: 112437
  body: I really like the editing tools in FontLab, like removing a redundant point
    and still keeping the integrity of an arc. I also like how you can nudge bezier
    handles with arrow keys. On the other hand, I'm pretty good at drawing curves
    accurately the first time, without extra points. Cleaning up the inevitable mess
    of an autotrace is not my idea of a good time.
  created: '2007-06-23 18:25:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I'm pretty good at drawing curves accurately the first time\r\n\r\nBut
    there's no way you're pixel-accurate.\r\n\r\nUsing Illustrator to draw glyphs
    is virtually never a good idea.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-24 00:56:00'
- author:
    name: russ_mcmullin
    picture: 112437
  body: "> But there's no way you're pixel-accurate.\r\n\r\nPixel-accurate? Compared
    to what? My scanned pencil sketch? You're absolutely right. I draw the glyphs
    to the point where they look good to my eye. There is a very slight shift of some
    points when I paste the glyphs into FontLab. The amount of shift is generally
    acceptable to me, and if it isn't, I can tweak it.\r\n\r\n> Using Illustrator
    to draw glyphs is virtually never a good idea.\r\n\r\nThis is a general statement
    I might agree with too, if I could get someone to elaborate beyond general statements. "
  created: '2007-06-24 03:13:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I should have written em-accurate. What I mean is, you can't\r\nfor example
    make the 3 stems of an \"m\" the exact same width,\r\nright off the bat, freehand.\r\n\r\nhhp"
  created: '2007-06-24 07:22:49'
- author:
    name: russ_mcmullin
    picture: 112437
  body: "Thanks for the clarification Hrant. When possible, I tend to recycle parts
    in order to maintain consistancy. In your example I would probably clone the bottoms
    of the stems on the \"m\" to keep the widths consistant. I'm guessing other people
    do this too.\r\n\r\nI mentioned the curves to show that I am not autotracing.
    I draw the glyphs with as few points as possible, so I don't end up with a lot
    of editing and cleanup."
  created: '2007-06-25 06:33:46'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "One more thing. FL is probably much better when you do the outlines point
    by point. But I normally draw glyphs using lots of welding/trimming/intersecting.
    I can reposition each part separately and then do the weld on all of them and
    do the final tricks on the outline itself.\r\n\r\nSo when it comes to some geometric
    sans serif it's rather easy to take one part of a letter and use it with another.
    I don't really know if this would be the case with FL. But if you draw your letters
    on paper so good you scan them and do the outlines in FL that's as you all agree
    much better and easier with FL."
  created: '2007-06-25 13:22:20'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" I still carn\u2019t work out if Fontlab has a method of centering such
    things or if it\u2019s best doing by eye.\"\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\" the problem of centering
    the slash in the Oslash glyph.\"\r\nI was talking to Petr about this recently
    and realized Fog had this right. Fog allowed one to select any number of points,
    type cmmd-= and the \"reference point\" would jump to the x y center of the selected
    point(s). With this simple tool, centering one shape on another was near instantaneous
    with either a visual or mathematical precision in mind.\r\n\r\nFL does not have
    anything like this, does it?\r\n\r\nCheers\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-27 12:16:00'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "> with [...] mathematical precision\r\n\r\nMy background is in mathematics,
    so I will jump in. If the counter is perfectly circular then there is a center.
    If not, the counter has a \"center of gravity\" i.e. a point such that if you
    cut the counter in straight line through it, both parts have the same area, the
    same \"amount of white\". If you select a few points on the boundary of the counter
    and get their center of gravity, it won't be that of the counter. Moreover, even
    if you have a program that gives you with mathematical precision the center of
    gravity of the counter, as soon as you draw a thick line through it, the two white
    pieces in general stop having the same area, i.e. the same amount of white and
    I understand (please correct me if I am wrong) that what is important is that
    the amount of white under and below the slash be the same. Moreover, other issues
    due to the <a href=\"http://www.michaelbach.de/ot/ang_poggendorff/index.html\">Poggendorff
    optical illusion</a> need to be taken into account. So the question is not a simple
    mathematical problem. If we forget about the necessity to correct the optical
    illusion, then we would need a program able to calculate the area above and under
    the (thick) slash; is there such a thing on the market?"
  created: '2007-06-27 14:32:55'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Thanks Micheal! '
  created: '2007-06-27 22:42:37'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "I'm so very used to (guess what?) CorelDraw I always draw vectors in it.
    Its quite easy to import into FontLab if you follow these steps:\r\n1. Measure
    your type in Corel appropriately (to FL's 1000 units)\r\n2. Draw all your glyphs\r\n3.
    Export each glyph into EPS\r\n4. Open FL\r\n5. Edit font properties - all guides
    should be easy if you measured glyphs in Corel appropriately.\r\n6. start importing
    glyphs. Vectors should be perfectly preserved if your scale was 1:1\r\n7. Do the
    font stuff like kerning etc.\r\n\r\nIt's the fastest way for me because I've been
    using CorelDraw extensively since version 3."
  created: '2007-06-28 10:55:13'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"(please correct me if I am wrong) that what is important is that the amount
    of white under and below the slash be the same\"\r\nOkay.\r\nThe amount of white
    below the slash is greater, slightly. \r\nThis is what made the fog method perfect.
    \r\nThe slash was centered on the inner counter, \r\nand then nudged to visual
    certainty. \r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-06-28 12:00:51'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "I guess it would have been better to say that the amount of white above and
    under should <strong>be perceived to</strong> be the same, but for me \"visual
    certainty\" is problematic: in Briems' site cited above it is said that for most
    people the 8 that is checked has a lower half that looks smaller than the upper.
    For me they look the same and in the fourth, the lower part looks much larger.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/eights_4034.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    have lived all my life with eights having an upper part that looks smaller than
    the lower part... "
  created: '2007-06-28 13:46:13'
- author:
    name: RachelR
  body: "litera,\r\n\r\nWhen I started this thread my work flow was much the same
    as yours, but with Illustrator. I've been completely converted now to working
    solely in FL.\r\n\r\nMy work flow now is:\r\n\r\n1. Open FL\r\n2. Draw all glyphs\r\n3.
    Do the font stuff like kerning etc.\r\n\r\n\r\nRr\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-28 14:48:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I have lived all my life with eights having an upper part that looks smaller
    than the lower part...\r\n\r\nIn general whenever a character is divide in two,
    it looks more 'right' when the top is smaller than the bottom. Partly, there is
    the visual illusion Briem notes where eg the bar of the H (or the O slash) has
    to be higher than the center to make the top and bottom look equal. But more than
    this I think we react as if the letter is an object with weight, and things are
    more physically stable when the top looks smaller, not equal. Whatever the reason
    this holds with many horizontally divided characters, such as the B, S etc. Visual
    equality is what you may want in an H or O slash, but often not in an E and 8,
    etc. In almost every character, the mathematically simplest shape and proportion
    looks awkward or ungainly."
  created: '2007-06-28 14:50:09'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "> But more than this I think we react as if the letter is an object with
    weight\r\n\r\nThis is also the way I perceive it personally."
  created: '2007-06-28 15:05:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> For me they look the same\r\n\r\nThen you're... \"special\".  :-)\r\n\r\n>
    we react as if the letter is an object with weight\r\n\r\nBut critically, not
    during immersion.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-28 15:10:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">But critically, not during immersion.\r\n\r\nYou have a good point, but
    I think 'aesthetically' rather than 'critically' is more accurate. \r\n\r\nReaders
    don't generally set out to criticize a type face. They normally take it totally
    for granted. But they are strongly affected by aesthetics during the first glance
    at a page, and particularly the titles, headings, and layout. Then when they read
    extended text the face should 'disappear' as they focus on meaning. During orienting
    glances is when aesthetically pleasing shapes and proportions have their impact. "
  created: '2007-06-28 15:31:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, there is no pure, timeless immersion, and aesthetics always matters.
    But we should not ignore the \"dark half\": that during immersion \"the aesthetics
    of gravity\" is moot (which is something besides \"readers don\u2019t generally
    set out to criticize a type face\"). This distinction is critical because it helps
    us strike better balances depending on what kind of thing we're making, like a
    text face vs a display face.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-28 15:38:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">kind of thing we\u2019re making, like a text face vs a display face.\r\n\r\nI
    guess here is where we have some difference of opinion. \r\n\r\nUnless a face
    is intended for tiny sizes only, like an agate face, text faces also have an element
    of 'display'. Even if they are at text sizes, the aesthetic aspect, including
    proportions, has an impact each time we have a first look at a page, or perhaps
    even a paragraph. I agree that the beauty of type at heading and titling sizes
    is more important. If the face is done in optical sizes, then the heading and
    titling sizes can successfully put a bit more priority on looks and a bit less
    on readability.  "
  created: '2007-06-28 16:12:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I already said all that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-28 16:23:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Well, if that''s what you meant we''re in agreement. '
  created: '2007-06-28 16:30:57'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: 'For those who prefer to draw in Illustrator I highly recommend to use BitFonter
    or ScanFont to transfer AI drawings to FontLab Studio. '
  created: '2007-07-04 18:27:05'
- author:
    name: russ_mcmullin
    picture: 112437
  body: "> For those who prefer to draw in Illustrator I highly recommend to use BitFonter
    or ScanFont to transfer AI drawings to FontLab Studio.\r\n\r\nCan you expand on
    this?"
  created: '2007-07-04 18:45:10'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "Yes. ScanFont 4 (and upcoming 5 which will be also available for Windows)
    can import many glyph images from single AI file. You can also customize scaling
    which will round to UPM grid only on very final stage without losing any precision.\r\n\r\nBoth
    BitFonter and ScanFont 4+ have outline layer - it is not editable, but can be
    sent to FontLab (or TypeTool)."
  created: '2007-07-05 14:22:33'
- author:
    name: S. Beck
    picture: 112866
  body: "Just out of curiosity, if one is going to use Illustrator rather that Fontlab
    to create the glyphs of a font, can anyone list the steps that should be taken
    in ensuring the imported vector art will adapt to Fontlabs specs? What needs to
    be double checked or updated - ie. redundant beziers...\r\n\r\nsb"
  created: '2007-08-06 06:27:06'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>What needs to be double checked or updated - ie. redundant beziers...</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    find that I have no problems copy/pasting glyphs from Illustrator to TypeTool
    as long as I follow the practices for properly drawing beziers that Leslie Cabarga
    outlines in his bible."
  created: '2007-08-06 06:45:40'
- author:
    name: S. Beck
    picture: 112866
  body: "I just came across this link in another thread.\r\n\r\nhttp://groups.msn.com/fontlab/tipsandtricks.msnw?action=get_message&mview=0&ID_Message=2675\r\n\r\nanyone
    have anything to add? or does this pretty much cover what needs to be done?\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-06 06:52:54'
- author:
    name: RachelR
  body: 'I think it''s down to pesonal preference, personally I wouldn''t go back
    to drawing in Illustrator. '
  created: '2007-08-06 07:15:06'
- author:
    name: Eyehawk
  body: "Drawing letters in Illustrator is very simple if you have lots of practice.
    I've been doing it since 1989 on a Mac of little substance. If you have the \"eye\"
    for it, you need not use many beziers, only the minimum necessary.\r\n\r\nI have
    worked with artists who use many to quite a few bezier points, so I know what
    many of you might be suffering through. I would love to give lessons on the minimalization
    of the bezier-drawn letter. It is so easy once learned.\r\n\r\nHaving said that,
    how well would a letter with the minimum number of beziers transfer to Fontlabs?
    I am interested in creating some of my own ideas."
  created: '2007-08-06 10:26:55'
- author:
    name: RachelR
  body: 'I can drawing letters in Illustrator and FL with the same amount of points,
    but if I draw in illustrator I have to but them into FL, so why don''t just draw
    them in FL. '
  created: '2007-08-06 12:14:45'
- author:
    name: Eyehawk
  body: I can't argue that point, Rachel. I must look into Fontlabs, for sure. It
    sounds as though you figured it out very fast.
  created: '2007-08-06 12:41:23'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>...so why don\u2019t just draw them in FL.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt depends
    a lot on the letters that one is drawing. Illustrator\u2019s versatile pathfinder
    and shape generation tools can save a lot of time over trying to draw some stuff
    in Fontlab, or worse, Typetool. For a serif face that requires a lot of drawing
    one is probably better off with Fontlab, but a rounded sans face that requires
    a lot of knocking out corners could be done in less time with Illustrator. "
  created: '2007-08-06 20:01:29'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "<cite>...or worse, Typetool</cite>\r\n\r\nI'd like to know what drawing tools
    are missing in TypeTool (compared to FontLab Studio)? It will help us to better
    understand what features to put into each of the programs.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-07 13:42:37'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "In this case I was referring to the lack of a \"delete intersection\" feature
    in Typetool. Using standard shapes to alter a series of other shapes can save
    a lot of time, enough so that sometimes it\u2019s just faster to cut-and-paste
    to Illustrator and back than to draw a form in Fontlab/Typetool.\r\n\r\nFor example,
    if I have a special design for a corner on a letter I can knock the shape of the
    corner out of another shape in Illustrator and then use the shape and Pathfinder
    to crop that corner off of every applicable letter. In Typetool I would have to
    cut the corner out of one letter and add it in by opening up the contour of every
    other letter, pasting it in, and putting it in place. In Fontlab I could save
    a little time by using \"delete intersection\" to cut the corner out, but I would
    still have to delete the extra points leftover where the non-intersecting areas
    of my \"stencil\" were. \r\n\r\nI am also a little annoyed by the inability to
    draw shapes with round corners in Fontlab and Typetool. Drawing a shape with round
    corners, or being able to round off the corners after creating the shape (the
    way Indesign handles round corners) would be a simple way for me to save a lot
    of time with the font I\u2019ve just started on.\r\n\r\nTimesaving features like
    these would really take Typetool to a new level of usability for me. I already
    prefer the way Fontlab products handle beziers, now I just want the little goodies
    that Adobe uses to spoil me."
  created: '2007-08-07 16:19:04'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Try building stems with rounded corners in FL to begin with (I can think
    of a couple fast ways to do it), then copy the stems and features to other letters.
    Aren''t you making design decisions like these at the beginning? '
  created: '2007-08-07 18:39:36'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I try to work that way, but it\u2019s not an option when I need to make a
    lot of changes to existing letters, especially in Typetool, which does not have
    the templating features that Fontlab does. It\u2019s also just an issue with having
    used Illustrator and Indesign for years before I started into drawing in font
    editors\u2014making little things easier for new users would leave us with more
    time to focus on the hard stuff. "
  created: '2007-08-07 19:11:37'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi all,\r\n\r\npersonally I soon had a lot of fun working with FontLab.\r\nI
    came from FontStudio (always hated Fontographer;-) and very quick I learned using
    the curves quite well.\r\nIt is fact more based on FontStudio than on Fontographer
    in some matters.\r\n\r\nThe only thing that still gives me pain - beside all the
    beautiful things that one can do with Fontlab as for example touching the curves
    directly!! - is that it is quite difficult, or better takes you some time, to
    cut out part of curves as it was simple with FontStudio by copy and paste activating
    the part of the curve in the somewhere. You - as far as I tried so far - have
    to cut the curves first at the endpoints (which is tricky enough) and then carefully
    seperate to cancel them otherwise he will only cancle the points (which is a good
    tool anyway but in other situations) instead of the whole curve segment.\r\nDid
    I miss maybe a trick to do this operation in an other way?\r\nThis would seal
    my new love to Fontlab forever and all times...\r\n\r\nStefan\r\n\r\nBy the way:\r\nI
    like also sometimes designing (detailed designs) in Photoship.\r\nDid anyone has
    been aware of the fact that Photoshop increases the resolution of the grid where
    you can set points with the enlargement of the view (at least if the pictures
    resolution is high enough from the start) This is great for examples studying
    serifs and so. Nevertheless this leaves the problem of having it to copy it later
    in FontLab where exactly for this reason distorsions may arise..\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-11 13:48:10'
date: '2007-06-18 17:53:17'
title: Fontlab v Illustrator drawing

---
