---
author:
  name: stw
  picture: 110841
body: "Hi everybody,\r\n\r\nI am writing an little article about [[blackletter]] for
  a college-project. For this I would like to show the evolution of the gothic types,
  from carolingian minuscule to textura.\r\nApart from the fact that this is only
  a quick sketch, do you think that the evolution is shown right or should I change
  anything?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/oschmal_5557.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nThank
  you very much,\r\n\r\nbye: Steven"
comments:
- author:
    name: Daniel Denk
    picture: 112599
  body: "Do you mean more or less Fraktur type? Or something more broad and that doesn't
    specify Germanic style typeface design?\r\n\r\nBased on everything I just read
    through the last few days on the etymology side of things - I think you might
    want to look at it as well. There's some enlightening issues in the mix in context
    with pronounciation and accenting that doesn't seem to be noted these days. (Whether
    in academic circles or elsewhere.)\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-20 01:52:51'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "To my under-tutored eye this looks fine. Reading Noordzij it become clear
    that you could go from almost any Calligraphic style to almost any other in as
    many steps. What I think you are asking is - does it seem Historically accurate.
    I am not 100% sure about that.\r\n\r\nI was just teaching my intern about this..."
  created: '2007-06-20 02:30:14'
- author:
    name: stw
    picture: 110841
  body: "<em>What I think you are asking is - does it seem Historically accurate.
    I am not 100% sure about that.</em>\r\n\r\nYes. Thats my question :)\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-20 02:42:21'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: If I have time I will see what I can figure out. I have a lot of books out
    right now. Hopefully someone with more authority than I will come along as well.
    You might see what Paul Shaw thinks. Or Sheila Waters. Or Julian Waters. Or Linnea
    Lundquist & Ward Dunham.
  created: '2007-06-20 05:28:19'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...does it seem Historically accurate? I am not 100% sure about that.\"\r\n\"Yes.
    Thats my question :)\"\r\n\r\nSince there were thousands, if not 10's of 1000's
    of calligraphic enterprises working over the span of time you are representing,
    I think 100% accurate would require time travel. \r\n\r\nWhat you have shown is
    a good survey that pretty clearly makes the point, I think. \r\n\r\nCheers"
  created: '2007-06-20 11:54:06'
- author:
    name: TS.Eggs
    picture: 112632
  body: 'the design museum in london has a good exhibition at the moment about Barnbrook
    who has done a lot to get such fonts into graphic design and to get rid of their
    nazi-image. check it out: http://www.designmuseum.org/exhibitions/current-exhibitions/jonathan-barnbrook '
  created: '2007-06-20 16:59:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Very nice of Barnbrook!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-20 17:23:22'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Noordzij calls this process the \u201Cconsolidation of the word,\u201D and
    shows a similar sequence in <em>The stroke: theory of writing</em>[img:sites/default/files/old-images/],
    explaining that \u201Cevery change that gives greater accent to the rhythmic bond
    of the white forms in the word counts as a consolidation of the word.\u201D"
  created: '2007-06-23 16:08:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You cannot properly consolidate notan while favoring the black.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-23 16:24:31'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I am still unconvinced hat you MUST be favoring the black when doing calligraphy
    - or put better maybe that Calligraphy has this problem in a way that is special
    or unique to it. I am convinced that working in the black rather than Notan is
    what 99% of practitioners do. But I also think that what 99% of all 'makers of
    letters' in all techniques/process' do. Going to Notan is an very expert shift
    not easily done.  While I am open to hearing more about the 'rhythmic bond of
    the white forms' I have to admit to remaining skeptical of that as well. It isn't
    that I don't see that there is something to what GN is saying. It's just that
    I think it's a very incomplete way of looking at it.\r\n\r\nAlso re: the actual
    topic of the thread. I think that it is reasonable to show your image as long
    as you don't make great claims to precise historical accuracy simply because lots
    of scribes used multiple styles and the style they used was related to content
    and the desire of their patron. The problem with writing about calligraphic styles
    over time is that the actual complexity is extremely hard to wrap your head around
    and harder still to explain so less than accurate generalizations are made. The
    tendency to write in authoritative modern style ' This is how it was ' vs a postmodern
    more scientific 'These are my observations - these are my sources' further compounds
    the problem. But as I say. There is no reason to present the thing as a modernist. "
  created: '2007-06-23 21:38:07'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I question whether changes in writing that give a greater accent to the rhythmic
    bond of the white forms in the word count as favouring the black. But this is
    a side issue, and doesn\u2019t alter the fact that Noordzij\u2019s general claim
    might give us a useful handle on the meaning of the evolution Steven illustrates
    with what I think are representative illustrations. The actual historical trajectory
    through incremental changes by dozens of scribal hands over centuries is surely
    a much messier and more piece-meal affair.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-23 23:24:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I am convinced that working in the black rather\r\n> than Notan is what
    99% of practitioners do.\r\n\r\nThat's a conservative estimate.\r\n\r\n> I question
    whether changes in writing that give a greater\r\n> accent to the rhythmic bond
    of the white forms in the word\r\n> count as favouring the black.\r\n\r\nThey
    don't. That's not what I said.\r\nBut it's still \"you can't there from here\"
    when it\r\ncomes to writing trying to accomodate reading.\r\n\r\nAs usual, Noordzij
    deftly elaborates on the way things have\r\nbeen done, but in so doing tacitly
    endorses a continuation of\r\nthat practice. Just look at his students. That \"I
    don't prescribe\"\r\nescapism is pure bunk, and deep down everybody knows it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-24 00:41:11'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Hrant: \u201CNoordzij deftly elaborates on the way things have been done,
    but in so doing tacitly endorses a continuation of that practice.\"\r\n \r\nYes,
    Noordzij elaborates at length on the consolidation of the word because he thinks
    it should continue. The consolidation of the word image is essentially an accomodation
    to the needs of the visual cortex.\r\n\r\nLet us talk about whether the consolidation
    of the word in the texturas, fracturs and burgundian bastarda had a downside.
    That is, did the \u2018evolution\u2019 Steven illustrated compromise or damage
    bouma divergence. And if so, how can we now thread our way effectively--typographically--through
    the countervailing pressures flanking writing. And furthermore, did the typographical
    return to the weight characteristics and proportions of the carolinian minuscule
    mean a step back in the consolidation of the word?"
  created: '2007-06-24 04:07:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> he thinks it should continue.\r\n\r\nThat's wonderful.\r\nDamn shame about
    the impossibility though.\r\n\r\n\"I'm going to throw this ball and I want it
    to land on the moon. I'm going to keep throwing it until what I want happens...
    Oh, I threw it really hard and I don't see it now. That must mean it reached the
    moon! And now I must teach other people this wonderful trick.\"\r\n\r\n> ... step
    back ...\r\n\r\nThere is no stepping forward or backward in a\r\nchirographic
    world; it's all stepping sideways.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-24 07:32:59'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Hrant, as I perceive it, your \u201CNoordzij deftly elaborates on the way
    things have been done, but in so doing tacitly endorses a continuation of that
    practice.\" tries to turn my contribution to this thread into a discussion about
    \u2018chirography.\u2019\r\n\r\nMy \u201C[y]es, Noordzij elaborates at length
    on the consolidation of the word because he thinks it should continue\u201D was
    an attempt to turn your sentence on its head and bring the thread back to the
    Nordzijian idea I introduced because it seemed apt in relation to Steven's graphic.\r\n\r\n\u2018Consolidation
    of the word\u2019 is just another way of saying \u2018bouma integrity\u2019 (or
    at least it is a dimension of it) and promoting readability as you understand
    it. And it is impicit in what you describe as \u2018notan.\u2019 Or it might be
    that the converse of this is more accurate."
  created: '2007-06-24 15:38:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The problem with any Noorzijian idea is that it tends\r\nto have merit in
    proportion to its distance from type.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-24 16:14:17'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Hrant, I wonder if you mean to imply by this that the consolidation of the
    word image is an objective that only has merit in proportion to it's distance
    from type.
  created: '2007-06-25 13:25:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, what I mean is that bouma consolidation is facilitated in\r\nproportion
    to a distance from chirography, hence GN's ideas.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-25 16:15:38'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "But Hrant, \u2018consolidation of the word\u2019 <em>is</em> a Noordzij concept.
    \r\nAnd for Noordzij, the evolution Steven's graphic shows illustrates it. Noordzij
    wants to encapsulate the meaning of this historical sequence.\r\nMy contribution
    to this thread was an attempt to highlight this.\r\n\r\nI wonder if you or anyone
    else thinks Noordzij's description of the meaning of the evolution Steven's graphic
    illustrates is apt. And I raised the issue of a downside, and competing pressures
    on the designer.\r\n\r\n\r\nYou want to add that chirography won't get us there,
    or at least not far enough. And you fault Noordzij for thinking it can.\r\n\r\nI
    reply by calling attention to Noordzij's statement that \u201C[i]t is decadent
    to\r\nmake an artificial distance between he tool and the shape, but keeping them\r\nartificially
    together is decadent as well.\u201D\r\n\r\nYou wonder if in saying this Noordzij
    is evasive about what he really thinks.\r\n\r\nI might reply that this shows you
    don't understand how to read or make effective use of Noordzij."
  created: '2007-06-25 17:15:57'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Peter, \r\n\r\nWould you elaborate on what you mean by 'consolidation'? The
    more common or superficially obvious sense especially for lay-person is I assume
    the incorrect interpretation. That is simply that the horizontal space required
    gets smaller with the movement to blackletter ( Fractur, Textura, Shwabacker etc)
    because the letters become narrow. \r\n\r\nWhat I am guessing he might mean instead
    is that the forms being used become more regular and the picket fence effect that
    results creates a greater regularity or rhythm than we see in the carolingian
    minuscule.  Maybe he means more than this.\r\n\r\nYou (I think) push things further
    to say that this regularity might have an additional benefit - that the regularity
    forms a background against which differences between letterforms may be highlighted
    more effectively resulting in enhanced cue value and faster recognition. \r\n\r\nI
    suspect I have made a mess of this but it's my understanding of what you might
    mean as of today. Please correct me where I have misunderstood or mischaracterized
    either of you or GN. \r\n\r\nPersonally I don't think that regularity of form
    -at least at the level of blackletter- is needed. The reason I think this has
    to do with  Andre Gurtler's work. The exercises he did with his students suggest
    to me that there are potentially many kinds of regularity in latin forms beyond
    those we see in blackletter. And also that these kinds are not less than the ones
    used by blackletter. \r\n\r\nHis examples also suggested to me that Blackletter
    which is hyper regular like a Textura is sub-ideal where cue value is concerned.
    And maybe blacletter is too regular in general to be ideal.\r\n\r\nHowever, for
    me, successful Notan requires no regularity whatsoever. The way I look at it it's
    the latin forms that need a degree of regularity in order to be Latin. And so
    getting successful Notan going with that regularity doesn't require a particular
    degree of regularity. It might be that there is some kind of ideal range of regularity
    for Latin though. And that's a different issue.\r\n\r\nI am of course curious
    about what each of you has to say about these ideas."
  created: '2007-06-25 19:47:24'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "<em>The Random House dictionary of the English Language</em>: To consolidate
    is \u201C<strong>1.</strong> to bring together (separate parts) into a single
    whole; unite; combine. <strong>2.</strong> to make firm or secure, to strengthen.\u201D\r\n\r\nAccenting
    the rhythmic bond of the whites unites or makes strong or secures the word image.
    Another way of saying this is that it enhances the object-like integrity (for
    perceptual processing) of the word image. One could say it is an ingredient in
    acheiving typographic notan.\r\n\r\nTextura does this by making the word image
    more compact, the interior and between-letter shapes more comparable to themselves
    and eachother, and the black / white balance more equal.\r\n\r\nConsolidation
    is important in a perspective which considers reading to be, what we have been
    calling, 'bouma-based.' It's perceptual processing importance is more difficult
    to see if one adopts a parallel letter recognition model of word recognition.\r\n\r\nTo
    my sense of it the 'danger' in textura is the loss of independant cue value in
    many areas. The regularity of textura limits bouma divergence."
  created: '2007-06-25 21:22:14'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Eben, where can we find information on Andre Gurtler's work?\r\n\r\nAlso
    I don't say regularity is beneficial, but\u2014in latin forms\u2014fairly tight
    packing (as shown in fourier transforms) around a phasal mean (in the direction
    of reading). Fairly tight, not perfect phasal regularity."
  created: '2007-06-25 21:31:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">fairly tight packing (as shown in fourier transforms) around a phasal mean\r\n\r\nPeter,
    doesn't that 'tight packing around a phasal mean' in fact indicate regularity?
    \r\n\r\nMy own view is that regularity is essential to good readability--as is
    variety. A large degree of regularity is needed to provide a framework the eye
    can latch on to, and know where to look for variety. The diversity of forms within
    that regular framework is the 'signal' that we read, and the regularity provides
    the necessary framework to detect the variations, the signal--such as the difference
    between a b and an h. \r\n\r\nIf there is a lot of variation in the design that
    does not convey key information, then that excess variation becomes 'noise' that
    interferes with readability. For example, if some characters are much darker than
    others, like mixing bold and light in the same word, it interferes with readability.
    Or, like University Roman, where the mn are very narrow, and the bdo very wide.
    If there is evenness of color, and the counters and letter spaces are all in balance,
    I think readability is greatly enhanced. \r\n\r\nOne of the great challenges in
    designing a text type with superb readability is to get the balance of regularity
    and variety right. "
  created: '2007-06-26 00:23:52'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "The best place to look at what I am thinking about is in Andre Gurtler's
    book 'Experiments With Letterform and Calligraphy'.\r\n\r\nIt's expensive but
    maybe a Library can get you a copy. I could also scan some stuff to cite examples.
    Let me know how it goes.\r\n\r\nISBN-10: 3721203208\r\nISBN-13: 978-3721203202\r\n\r\nAlso,
    thanks for the definition. ( Really! ) Your comments make more sense now.\r\n\r\nI
    am still unclear how the regularity/rhythmic bond/consolidation enhances the integrity
    of the word. It makes the word more compact but surely it is the spaces between
    the words that make the word into an object. That and line spacing. Below that
    level you have letter relationships. I do see that some degree of regularity is
    desirable. What I suspect we probably differ over is how tight is ideal. So maybe
    it isn't that I don't see what regularity has to do with it. Maybe it's that I
    am not sure why we need 'fairly tight' or why you think that's the sweet spot.
    And really I am not sure how tight fairly tight is. It is possible we already
    agree without a sample to refer to it's hard to know.\r\n\r\nBut here is my point
    again and if I am preaching to the choir please forgive me: Notan isn't a just
    balance of black & white in the sense that a 50-50 evenness is achieved. Thus
    regularity per se may mean almost nothing in itself in terms of making Successful
    Notan in type. I say 'just' because even a 50/50 balance could be an element in
    successful Notan. But for most letters successful Notan has to be a pleasing optical
    balance of the asymmetric. And we know that litteral symetry isn't tollerated
    by the eye all that well. We need subtle asymmetry & illusions to make the eye
    happy with what is meant to be seen as symmetric.\r\n\r\nFurther I think 90% of
    Cue Value in Latin lives there in the obvious asymmetries. This is why I think
    Notan & Cue Value are far more deeply related than consolidation or regularity
    are to either Cue Value or Notan.\r\n\r\nAlso, would you expand on what 'fairly
    tight packing' is like. Reading & reading what you wrote just keeps bringing to
    mind glyph variations where the core shapes are very similar but not the same
    - and I have no way of knowing if that's the kind of thing you mean. \r\n\r\nWhat
    would be lovely is if you could show an example of type or calligraphy that demonstrated
    this fairly tight packing and could also be contrasted with literal regularity.
    \r\n"
  created: '2007-06-26 01:00:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Peter, I'm not sure I would call GN evasive. He's certainly too nice a person
    to be manipulative; a lot of the fallacies in his views concerning type are (purposefully
    or not) glossed over or sometimes covered up not by him, but by people who want
    very much for him to be right, perhaps because of his charisma, which is amplified
    by his intelligence. I have been frustrated by this -admittedly very human- phenomenon
    time and again, in personal communications and discussion fora. I surely don't
    understand him fully; but I think you avoid truly understanding him, rummaging
    around and cherry-picking statements of his that <em>might</em> make sense as
    a way to avoid digging up his essential False core, an illusional foundation that,
    to me, entirely invalidates the inhabitability of his house of cards. He's holding
    you back. I'm sorry. I really wish it wasn't like this.\r\n\r\n> successful Notan
    requires no regularity whatsoever.\r\n\r\nThe nail on the head, Eben.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-26 06:23:12'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Hrant, were I to adopt your stance, I feel I would be turning my back on
    what I have gleaned from Noordzij's writings and cutting myself off from what
    I might stll learn.\r\n\r\nBill, you're right about regularity and variablity.
    I should have said, absolute, salient, on-phase periodicity is probably anatgonistic
    to readability.\r\n\r\nEben, I wonder if <a href=\"http://www.enneson.com/public_downloads/typophile/tightpacking_slides.pdf\">these
    two slides</a> from my UQAM talk help in elucidating what I mean by fairly tight
    packing. They show that in readable, well-spaced types, information from the vertical
    components of the letters in the words falls at intervals close to a phasal mean.
    Notice that the highlights on the horizontal axis are not thin vertical stripes,
    but fuzzy verticle elipses. I take this clustering around a phasal mean to be
    one of the key signatures of readable Latin type. I would expect the fourier transforms
    of non-latin scripts to reveal a rather different picture. In the transforms shown,
    there are no competing phasal peaks on the x, or horizontal, axis, and the information
    is not mechanistically on-phase. I would expect that a fourier transform of textura
    will show much more \u2018on-phase-ness' in the horizontal direction of writing.\r\n\r\nBut
    the rhythmic cohesion set up by this phasal structure binds the cluster of glyphs
    into an objext-like entity resistant to what I have been calling 'slot-processing.'
    That is, the rhythmic cohesion promotes the consolidation of the word."
  created: '2007-06-26 20:52:50'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Hrant, I should have added that I think the essential core is sound.
  created: '2007-06-26 20:57:56'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Further to the discussion about textura, variety and regularity: Noordzij
    writes (<em>The stroke:theory of writing</em>, page53): \u201C[\u2026] in the
    end his chasing after a perfect rhythmn lapsed into uniformity, because the narrowing
    of letters led to interior shapes that were not only equivalent, they became identical,
    and the humanists could justifiably call this barbaric\u2014gothic.\u201D"
  created: '2007-06-26 22:53:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "When you say 'information' here what is being measured exactly? Is it the
    black shape of the ascender -or the outline? Also, it is the ascender we are talking
    about - yes? \r\n\r\nWhen you yo say 'phasal mean' what is that? The idea I have
    is that it is the overall tendency of the shapes. If the shapes are fairly consistent
    then you have a tight phasal mean? If so, a Textura that has 'lapsed into uniformity'
    would be the extreme example. Futura's lower case would fit nicely too but the
    Upper Case would not. Something with a lot of width variation in the Lower Case
    might not. A Monospace might adhere fairly closely to the 'phasal mean'as well
    . Is this right?\r\n\r\nThe odd thing about this idea is that it seems to be working
    against the idea - not absolutely; you have made that clear, that glyph divergence
    or distinctiveness is a good idea. But again, if I have understood you the question
    is not one of absolutes but of where on the continuum of regularity & divergence
    is likely to be best for a reader's immersive reading.  It sounds like you are
    more comfortable with the phasal mean than Hrant is. And I admit I may even be
    outside of Hrant's range. Maybe not though. He may be outside mine. It probably
    depends on the feature & the reason for it...\r\n\r\nIs \u2019slot-processing.\u2019
    a way of describing a Kevin style one glyph at a time model of processing?"
  created: '2007-06-27 20:35:18'
date: '2007-06-20 01:21:23'
node_type: forum
title: the evolution of gothic type

---
