---
author:
  name: metalfoot
  picture: 112098
body: "I'm just curious, really, about which typefaces members of this board have
  created and/or digitized. Is there a wiki topic which speaks to this, or should
  I simply surf the board archives for a while?\r\n\r\nI know, for example, of Carl
  Crossgrove's Beorcana family of fonts, of Nick Shinn's various fonts, and of Choz'
  works. But I'm curious, I suppose, on what others here have made."
comments:
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "Kent Lew's Whitman:\r\n\r\nhttp://fontbureau.com/fonts/Whitman\r\n\r\n\r\nJames
    Montalbano's oeuvre:\r\n\r\nhttp://terminaldesign.com/\r\n\r\n\r\nMark Simonson's
    work:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.ms-studio.com\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-20 21:10:57'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "Eric Olson used to hang out:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.processtypefoundry.com\r\n\r\n\r\nJean
    Francois Porchez chimes in from time to time:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typofonderie.com"
  created: '2007-06-20 21:12:50'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "The voluble Hrant Papazian finds time to work the beziers:\r\n\r\nhttp://themicrofoundry.com/\r\n\r\n\r\nDavid
    Berlow, whose posts often approach Dada poetry, founded Font Bureau and designed
    a number their faces, including the Titling Gothic mega-family.\r\n\r\nhttp://fontbureau.com/fonts/sans/TitlingGothicFB"
  created: '2007-06-20 21:19:03'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: I've seen <a href=http://www.christianschwartz.com>Christian Schwartz</a>
    and <a href=http://www.typography.com>Jonathan Hoefler</a> post here infrequently.
  created: '2007-06-20 21:22:51'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I haven't actually sold my fonts yet, but there are some in the pipeline
    that I will be selling soon. I've released some of my earlier work as free fonts
    here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.1001fonts.com/member_profile.html?author_id=30468\r\n\r\nWhen
    I get around to it I'll be updating those too. I didn't know what an ogonek was
    back then and got them totally wrong, along with a host of other flaws."
  created: '2007-06-20 21:22:55'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "Don't forget Christian Robertson, whose Veer releases (Pill Gothic, Dear
    Sarah) ran the Critique forum gauntlet.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.veer.com/products/typedetail.aspx?image=UMT0000043\r\n\r\nhttp://www.betatype.com\r\n\r\n\r\nStefan
    Hattenbach is a Typophile sponsor and talented designer:\r\n\r\nhttp://macrhino.com/"
  created: '2007-06-20 21:33:07'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "Herr Spiekermann, who designed a little family called Meta (you may have
    heard of it ;) and founded FontShop, corrects our mistakes and shares his wisdom
    (all too rarely).\r\n\r\nhttp://www.spiekermann.com/mten/index.html"
  created: '2007-06-20 21:36:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "<a href=\"http://klim.co.nz/\">Kris Sowersby</a>, rising star of the South.
    \   \r\n\r\nAnd Typophile moderators and type designers <a href=\"http://www.p22.com/ihof/bios.html#paulhunt\">Paul
    Hunt</a> and <a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/3251/danreynolds.html\">Dan Reynolds</a>.\r\n\r\nThe
    Hebrew fonts of <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/person/hamuel/david/\">David
    Hamuel</a> have just appeared, with many more to come in many languages. "
  created: '2007-06-20 21:39:55'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Speaking of Spiekermann, he, Christian Schwartz and myself are working on
    a <a href=\"http://www.spiekermann.com/mten/2007/02/metaserif.html\">serif version</a>
    of that little family called Meta. (It's looking pretty damn good as well\u2026)\r\n\r\nMy
    own small folio of work is <a href=\"http://www.klim.co.nz\">here</a>, with <a
    href=\"http://vllg.com/KLIM/Feijoa/mudTyper+Weights/\">Feijoa</a> being the only
    public release thus far. But National & Newzald have to be done by August, so
    that will be good to flesh out the range!\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-06-20 21:47:23'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'You all forgot the Wiki!: [[Typophile Type Designers]]'
  created: '2007-06-20 21:59:12'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: So what you're all saying is that most of the best new fonts out there are
    created by Typophile members/posters?
  created: '2007-06-20 22:26:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't know about the numbers, but without an iota of a doubt\r\nTypophile
    is the world's primo watering hole for type designers.\r\n\r\nKris, I've always
    been fascinated (and frankly generally a bit sceptical)\r\nabout collaborative
    type design. Could you shed some light on how you\r\nguys are making the Meta-Serif
    mechanics actually work out?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-22 06:25:13'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "<cite>Kris, I've always been fascinated (and frankly generally a bit sceptical)\r\nabout
    collaborative type design. Could you shed some light on how you\r\nguys are making
    the Meta-Serif mechanics actually work out?</cite>\r\n\r\nHow can you be sceptical?
    I am not too sure what you mean by mechanics, but I'll try to explain. Christian
    proposed the idea of working together on Meta Serif, and I agreed. He had Erik's
    blessing to go ahead. I think Christian did the first sketches (in Fontlab) and
    gave the file to me, it was passed back and forth until we were both happy with
    it. Then, based on the Roman, I proceeded to flesh out the italic & blacks, with
    Christian marking the proof .pdf's and sometimes tweaking the .vfb's if the changes
    were minute. All the way along Erik is asked to check to make sure he is happy
    with how it is looking, and also makes suggestions.\r\n\r\nSo, as you can see,
    it is a truly collaborative approach. I have to admit it is much easier than trying
    to make a typeface solo, as certain decisions are made more much quickly! \r\n\r\nIs
    that what you mean by mechanics?\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-06-24 06:48:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thanks for the inside scoop!\r\nDon't get me wrong, I think it's wonderful
    that you guys are making\r\nthis level of collaboration work so smoothly. But
    it's pretty rare, no?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-24 07:36:31'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: As far as I know, collaboratively designing type from start to finish <em>is</em>
    rare indeed. Christian's work with Kris, Erik, and others is an exception. You
    could probably add a few more to that list like House, Quay+Sack, RXC & PSY/OPS
    designers, and Underware. But it's certainly not the norm. Type design is largely
    a solo operation until you get to the final technical shtuff.
  created: '2007-06-24 07:45:00'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Where is this idea coming from that type design is done by a solitary genius?
    Paul and Christian work like this all the time. Erik and Christian have been collaborating
    for years. Slimbach & Twombly designed Minion together. Frutiger & Andr\xE9 Guertler
    have done piles of work the same way, just not with computers. And what about
    Edward Hoffmann, who basically designed Helvetica through Max Miedenger's hands?
    I would say that most major releases are via collaboration, one way or another.
    \r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-06-24 10:04:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Slimbach & Twombly designed Minion together.\r\n\r\nAnd from what I gather
    that cemented their mutual dislike!  :-/\r\nBTW, Myriad.\r\n\r\n> most major releases
    are via collaboration\r\n\r\nI can see what you're getting at, but I think you're
    over-playing the nature of collaboration in type design. Maybe we need to dissect
    the mechanics to get a better grasp of what tasks can and cannot be shared? For
    example, Gill used to draw the letters then leave the spacing to the Monotype
    \"boys\". Is this OK?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-24 14:21:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Kris, in your opinion, what are some big reasons that certain people collaborate
    in type design? Is it that one of the parties is too busy, do certain people simply
    enjoy collaboration, or maybe they realize the end-result would be better with
    certain skills they don't have?\r\n\r\nLike why do you think Christian called
    on you?\r\nI could ask him, but since you're here...  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-24 14:46:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">why\r\n\r\nBasically I think it's two very talented and hard working guys
    with open, generous personalities, personalities which enable them to collaborate
    well.\r\n\r\nChristian has great 'type eyes' and of course saw Kris's talent.
    It helps that Kris and Christian are both part of Village, and Chester I suspect
    played a role in starting the collaboration. "
  created: '2007-06-24 15:23:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I agree with all that, but I think in terms of motivation (as opposed\r\nto
    facilitation) there must be more - a certain practical element.\r\nIf not in this
    particular case, in general. But really even in this case:\r\ndo you think Christian
    was incapable of making a good Meta-Serif\r\non his own?\r\n\r\nAgain, just to
    clarify: I'm very happy Christian and Kris are working\r\ntogether - I think quite
    highly of both of them. In fact I think they\r\ncan help us understand collaboration
    in type design, since they tend\r\nto be very open in public.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-24 16:26:48'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "<cite>And from what I gather that cemented their mutual dislike! :-/\r\nBTW,
    Myriad.</cite>\r\n\r\nOne instance doesn't make the rule! Myriad\u2026 thanks
    for the correction!\r\n\r\n<cite>I think you're over-playing the nature of collaboration
    in type design.</cite>\r\n\r\nAm I? Perhaps I am. I can only speak from personal
    experience.\r\n\r\n<cite>For example, Gill used to draw the letters then leave
    the spacing to the Monotype \"boys\". Is this OK?</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't see why
    it isn't. It gets the job done.\r\n\r\n<cite>Kris, in your opinion, what are some
    big reasons that certain people collaborate in type design?</cite>\r\n\r\nI like
    it because two minds are much better than one! Decisions are easier to make, mistakes
    are picked up by the other, the revolving set of fresh eyes is hugely beneficial.
    It is a hard, tedious slog making a larger family with multiple weights and smallcaps
    etc. A problem shared is a problem halved.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>Like why do you think
    Christian called on you?</cite>\r\n\r\nYou'd have to ask him, I think.\r\n\r\n<cite>Basically
    I think it's two very talented and hard working guys with open, generous personalities,
    personalities which enable them to collaborate well.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat helps!
    We get along very well, which makes things easy. We also have larger similar aesthetic
    taste.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite> But really even in this case: do you think Christian
    was incapable of making a good Meta-Serif on his own?</cite>\r\n\r\nWoah! Easy
    on man. He is more than capable of doing it all himself, let me assure you. Remember
    that he mostly drew the first round, establishing the style & shapes. I am just
    translating all of this through the weights & into the italics!\r\n\r\n\u2014K\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-25 05:25:40'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: Man, I'm glad I started this topic. Wonderful discussion on the nature of
    font collaboration has broken out in what could have easily been answered with
    a blunt, "read the wiki."
  created: '2007-06-25 05:28:36'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>For example, Gill used to draw the letters then leave the spacing to
    the Monotype \"boys\". Is this OK?</cite>\r\n\r\nDoes anyone else see this one
    as just being obvious and falling under the law of comparative advantage?"
  created: '2007-06-25 05:38:11'
- author:
    name: mrschwartz
  body: "<cite>Woah! Easy on man. He is more than capable of doing it all himself,
    let me assure you. Remember that he mostly drew the first round, establishing
    the style & shapes. I am just translating all of this through the weights & into
    the italics!</cite>\r\n\r\nKris is being overly modest here, but I'll go back
    to the beginning first. The idea of Meta Serif has been floating around since
    2002 or so, and after a several false starts, Erik and I finally figured out the
    basic look for the Roman at ATypI last fall. I forget how Kris and I first got
    in touch with each other, but we had worked together on a few small things and
    gotten to know each other when I asked him to draw Meta Serif with me. I don't
    remember the specific circumstances, I just had a gut feeling that it would work
    out. I thought there was a good chance the typeface would turn out better and
    be finished faster if we drew it together. He thought I was joking at first, but
    the rest will be history soon enough.\r\n\r\nI probably could have drawn the family
    myself (even that would have been a collaboration between me and Erik), but Kris
    brings his own sensibility to the mix, and he's doing a lot more than translating
    the basic design into a full family - he's really helped to shape the design.
    To be honest, the trickiest part is managing the files and knowing what the most
    current version is at any given moment, not working together. In the end, it won't
    be what he or I or Erik would have done on our own.\r\n\r\nIt was a similar scenario
    with Guardian Egyptian, Guardian Sans, Publico, and the other projects Paul Barnes
    and I have worked on together - I don't think he or I would have come up with
    any of these typefaces on our own, but together the work (sometimes quickly, sometimes
    eventually) came pretty naturally. When Paul and I work together, the division
    of labor is really unclear. One or both of us draws some characters, then we pass
    files back and forth until we're both happy with what we've got. Then one of us
    does the kerning, and I generally do the Superpolating. Not a very exciting story,
    I'm afraid.\r\n\r\nA shared design sensiblity is important for collaboration,
    but I think the rest is just chemistry. Sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't.
    I've been pretty lucky in finding people to work with, and have various projects
    in the works with Kris, Erik, Paul, and others right now, plus a few things of
    my own. I think it keeps my work fresh, and each of my collaborators knows things
    that I don't, which keeps things interesting."
  created: '2007-06-25 06:18:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I usually do everything myself these days, but I have had some help recently
    mastering files prior to release, and worked with Alexey Lisovsky on a Cyrillic
    version of Handsome. Well, he did all the work actually, I art directed and provided
    some technical help. Of course, a little bit of art direction can go a long way,
    as the proverbial sketch on the table napkin demonstrates.\r\n\r\nMy retail fonts
    have no outside input, which is fine by me, that's the main reason I started the
    foundry. But it's also very valuable to get direction in commissioned work, whether
    it's from a client who is a designer/art director, or \"just\" a client. For instance,
    many times I've prepared alternate directions for a project, and the client has
    picked what at the time I considered the least promising option. And then it was
    a struggle to develop it into something that pleased the client <em>and</em> myself.
    But often, despite the headaches, that produces the most interesting results. "
  created: '2007-06-25 06:45:46'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Ho! Looks like we killed the thread, CS\u2026\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-06-26 08:39:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Patience...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-26 14:03:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Concerning the Gill angle, the obvious problem is that the intent and planning
    of good notan is very hard to convey from one person to another, and I have to
    think Gill and the Monotype boys attempted no such thing; and I hope we agree
    that the White is Important. The interesting, and quite broad and deep, question
    here is: if you're making a \"conventional\" Latin text face, are the norms of
    what instances of letterspacing \"simply work\" perhaps reliable enough not to
    require any discussion beyond things like \"I think it should be looser\"? I would
    have to say that from where I stand, perhaps yes, but then \"conventional\" becomes
    quite distant from \"ideal\"; and when Kris says \"it gets the job done\", that
    raises a red flag for me.\r\n\r\n> the revolving set of fresh eyes is hugely beneficial.\r\n\r\nI
    agree fully. When you're too close to something it's hard to see it clearly (like
    how one typically sees many things to fix in one's own design after a while of
    not looking at it). The danger of course is the potential occasional truth of
    the maxim: \"If it takes one person one day to finish a job, it takes two people
    two days.\" :->\r\n\r\n> Woah! Easy on man.\r\n\r\nEasy on man right back at ya!
    It was a rhetorical question.  :-)\r\n\r\nMy point was that incapability could
    not have been the reason for Christian to have initiated this collaboration. Although
    it can be sometimes, like if a person [thinks he] is not good at spacing (re:
    Gill) and passes the job along to others; but like I said, this can be dangerous
    to \"total\" quality.\r\n\r\nBut there still has to be a practical dimension.
    Although possibly I need to see things like \"I wanted to work with this guy\"
    as in fact having a \"practical\" core... in an \"I, Robot\" sort of way.  :->\r\n\r\n>
    When Paul and I work together, the division of labor is really unclear.\r\n\r\nWould
    you say this slows things down but results in something better?\r\n(BTW, since
    Paul is a member now, maybe get him to chime in too.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-26 15:23:57'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "<cite>Concerning the Gill angle, the obvious problem is that the intent and
    planning of good notan is very hard to convey from one person to another,</cite>\r\n\r\nNotan?
    What on earth is that! I would say the Monotype chaps did a good job, I love metal
    Gill at text sizes, it has a lovely feel. Not too keen about the digital, though.\r\n\r\n<cite>if
    you\u2019re making a \u201Cconventional\u201D Latin text face, are the norms of
    what instances of letterspacing \u201Csimply work\u201D perhaps reliable enough
    not to require any discussion beyond things like \u201CI think it should be looser\u201D?</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    read this in Updike: \"The eye is the sovereign ruler of taste\". It is as simple
    and complicated as that! \r\n\r\n<cite>I would have to say that from where I stand,
    perhaps yes, but then \u201Cconventional\u201D becomes quite distant from \u201Cideal\u201D;
    and when Kris says \u201Cit gets the job done\u201D, that raises a red flag for
    me..</cite>\r\n\r\nYour ideal may be different from mine or Christian's, but we
    can all tell when it is wrong, it's just a matter of making it as right as we
    can. What is wrong with \"getting the job done\"? It is a job to me, it is part
    of what I do when I work. And I was brought up with the working value of \"if
    you are going to do something, you might as well do it properly\". So when I say
    get the job done, I mean it in the fullest sense of the word.\r\n\r\n<cite>Although
    it can be sometimes, like if a person [thinks he] is not good at spacing (re:
    Gill) and passes the job along to others; but like I said, this can be dangerous
    to \u201Ctotal\u201D quality.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe total quality? What if you picked
    your favourite 5 typefaces and investigated the production method? It might be
    revealing\u2026\r\n\r\n<cite>But there still has to be a practical dimension.</cite>\r\n\r\nThere
    is: two heads (four eyes) are better than one! Don't be so empirical ;-) This
    is type design, done with the hand, heart & head to be ultimately judged by the
    eye. \r\n\r\n\u2014K\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-26 23:20:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I would say the Monotype chaps did a good job\r\n\r\nI think so too...
    but it's not the same.\r\n\r\nThat Updike quote, I don't get the relevance here.\r\n\r\n>
    we can all tell when it is wrong\r\n\r\nYou really think so?\r\nWhat about the
    notan of Legato? Some people think\r\nit's very right, but other people think
    it's... pointless.\r\n\r\n> There is: two heads (four eyes) are better than one!\r\n\r\nIn
    some ways, certainly. But it's telling that collaboration (the way I suspect most
    people define the term) is still very rare in type design. For example the Gill
    stuff I agree was collaborative, but I don't agree with your previous claim that
    \"most major* releases are via collaboration\", at least not in a useful (to me)
    definition of \"collaboration\".\r\n\r\n* And what's with \"major\", anyway?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-27 00:58:13'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Just a note: I suspect most of the Monotype drawing office staff back in
    Gill''s and Morison''s day were female.... '
  created: '2007-06-27 01:07:06'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "<cite>I think so too... but it\u2019s not the same.</cite>\r\n\r\nNot the
    same as what?\r\n\r\n<cite>That Updike quote, I don\u2019t get the relevance here.</cite>\r\n\r\nAll
    I am saying is that it will always be judged by the eyes, and this is easier to
    do with collaboration.\r\n\r\n<cite>In some ways, certainly. But it\u2019s telling
    that collaboration (the way I suspect most people define the term) is still very
    rare in type design. For example the Gill stuff I agree was collaborative, but
    I don\u2019t agree with your previous claim that \u201Cmost major* releases are
    via collaboration\u201D, at least not in a useful (to me) definition of \u201Ccollaboration\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf
    you think that collaboration is rare, then fine by me. By \"most major\" I mean
    the more established foundries. The ones that typically have more than two people
    working for them. This is a guess on my part. \r\n\r\n<cite>You really think so?
    What about the notan of Legato? Some people think it\u2019s very right, but other
    people think it\u2019s... pointless.</cite>\r\n\r\nSorry, what is notan again?
    \r\n\r\n\u2014K\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-27 01:12:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Not the same as the notan being done by one mind.\r\n\r\nBTW: http://typophile.com/node/14819\r\n\r\n>
    By \u201Cmost major\u201D I mean the more established foundries.\r\n\r\nI agree
    that the larger the foundry the more collaboration is likely.\r\n\r\nBut I don't
    see how this is a reflection on anything but scale; I don't see it\r\nas a reflection
    on quality, at least not the type of quality I personally value.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-27 01:21:07'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "<cite>Not the same as the notan being done by one mind.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd
    the typeface wouldn't be the same as that done by one mind! \r\n\r\nAh yes, notan
    is interesting. Legato is an interesting one, and it is no surprise that people
    don't like the notan. Do you think that re-spacing it might make it more palatable
    for them? \r\n\r\n<cite>But I don\u2019t see how this is a reflection on anything
    but scale; I don\u2019t see it\r\nas a reflection on quality, at least not the
    type of quality I personally value.</cite>\r\n\r\nTrue\u2014but we are talking
    about collaboration, not quality. That is a separate matter in which I'll keep
    my opinions to myself!\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-06-27 03:26:42'
- author:
    name: Robert Trogman
    picture: 111573
  body: Eric Gill had an apprentice who later on in life proposed a theory on fitting
    of type. His name is David Kindersley. He worked with Monotype and Letraset before
    his death.
  created: '2007-06-27 04:13:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Do you think that re-spacing it might make it more palatable for them?\r\n\r\nThe
    nature of Legato is such that respacing it can only make it worse.\r\nThis is
    because the inside white is \"virtually ligated\" with the outside\r\nwhite; the
    inside white is what makes the font strange (if only to geeks\r\nlike us) and
    hence unappealing to some.\r\n\r\nWhat would be interesting though is to make
    a \"conventional\" sister to\r\nLegato and try to gauge any difference in how
    the two affect readers.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-27 04:18:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Kindersley is co-author of one of my most favorite types, Octavian.\r\nIt
    would be great to have a proper digital version of it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-27 04:27:50'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: There's an improper digitized version?
  created: '2007-07-05 20:13:30'
date: '2007-06-20 21:07:54'
node_type: forum
title: Who did what?

---
