---
author:
  name: pattyfab
  picture: 109929
body: "Beorcana is a lovely font, but my ears are ringing, proverbially speaking.
  Why not go for a lighter weight that doesn't scream so loud.\r\n\r\nAre you planning
  to rotate the featured font (lovely idea)?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: 'And maybe it''s me, but it really takes forever to load: I get a vanilla
    thread topic and then a long pause before it pops up as Beorcana.'
  created: '2007-06-22 15:44:35'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I gotta say the icon parade is kind of problematic too - especially when
    there are users who don't have icons and the grey T pops up. But really, do I
    have to remember which guy in the cowboy hat is which and whether hrant is the
    right eye or the left eye?\r\n\r\nBut since the IM feature seems to have disappeared
    I guess this isn't a problem."
  created: '2007-06-22 15:50:15'
- author:
    name: bowfinpw
    picture: 110174
  body: "If you think you guys are having troubles, try using an old Mac with OS 9!!\r\n\r\nI
    can't get pages to open; I can't get an indication that my posts made it without
    getting a timeout or error message message(even though the post worked). The site
    is S-L-O-W-E-R than one of our Northwest slugs. Even when I retarted my computer
    into OS X with Mozilla everything seems so painfully slow. I had to Stop loading
    a page, just to try something else. \r\n\r\nI think the animated icons are killing
    the pages, as Patty's comment implies. What's wrong with using the names? Content
    is more important than showiness. Why did we lose IM's?\r\n\r\nYou know there
    is a time for Flash and there is a time for using 'K.I.S.S.' Don't you think a
    forum that deals with inanimate image posts, and wants as many contributors as
    possible (not just those with hot new computers) is the time to go for Simple?\r\n\r\nYou
    know, the last time we 'upgraded' some of us (like me) lost capabilities at this
    site. It seems that you have done it again, and I can't see anything that we have
    gained, except maybe the indication of how many posts are new. \r\n\r\nPlease
    try not to make this site a technology test site, OK? I'd like to keep participating
    without having to buy a new computer.\r\n\r\n- Mike Yanega"
  created: '2007-06-22 16:39:24'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "I also like the idea of the rotating font - it could be interesting, and
    the site will often have a fresh look.\r\n\r\nProblems, though:\r\nThe icons instead
    of logged in user names. What will happen when there are 63 users (as there are
    sometimes)? I have to remember where I put my keys; keeping track of all those
    icons and who's who will paralyze my brain.\r\n\r\nAnd since there's no more IM
    or on-line users as a list, it seems it doesn't make any difference WHO is here
    at a particular time, so why not lose the icons altogether?\r\n\r\nI would also
    like to have the option of editing a post again. Was there a reason for that to
    disappear?\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-22 16:42:19'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "I have a feeling it's not Flash that's making things slow. Any sort of web
    page with a lot of simultaneous hits is going to bog down unless the server (or
    multiple servers) can handle it. Perhaps it's time for Typophile to upgrade its
    hosting package.\r\n\r\n> I'd like to keep participating without having to buy
    a new computer.\r\n\r\nWhile I empathize with many of your points, Mike, you'll
    be saying this to more and more site admins with each day that passes. So few
    users are running OS9 that nearly <em>every</em> site that upgrades will leave
    you behind. I feel like buying you that iMac again!"
  created: '2007-06-22 16:50:37'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "Well, SOMEthing has changed. I've visited Typophile when there were many,
    many threads going on, posts coming in and lots of activity all at once, and it
    was never THIS slow before. I am hitting either \"post comment\" or even \"refresh\",
    and I am checking my email, reading scores on ESPN, etc. before the screen refreshes.
    It's just tedious.\r\n\r\nAnd I hate to complain; this has always been a terrific
    site, and I'm sure a thankless project to manage. But if it's going to be this
    slow, with fewer capabilities than before, it's just not going to be very enjoyable."
  created: '2007-06-22 17:04:23'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "<strong>Feedback:</strong>\r\n\r\n\u2022 I also like the idea of the site
    featuring revolving fonts.\r\n\r\n\u2022 Miss the IM.\r\n\r\n\u2022 It is slow.\r\n\r\n\u2022
    Don't miss the editing feature. I always felt the ability to edit one's post after
    the fact caused confusion to other thread readers.\r\n\r\n\u2022 I like the added
    navigation to the original post when a thread goes to multi-pages."
  created: '2007-06-22 17:16:44'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Hey folks: There''s a thread specifically set up for these comments/complaints
    (Bug Report). The new version of Typophile is very advanced technically and took
    mountains of programming time. More fun content and functions already, and more
    coming, as I understand it. Did you look in the Resources area? They do need to
    move to a more robust hosting arrangement, but they know that. '
  created: '2007-06-22 17:40:15'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I notice the search function doesn't seem to be working anymore.\r\n\r\nAs
    for the icon list of active users, I like that. The user names show up when I
    hover the pointer over the icon, and in truth it is much more compact than a text
    list.\r\n\r\nDid the IM feature have to go though? I rarely used it, but only
    because the entry field was so small it was hard to recognize as a messaging tool.
    When I did use it it served quite handily, though.\r\n\r\nThe esit feature really
    needs to come back, at least to allow correction of typos. A lot of errors get
    through even with dilligent previewing before posting. Maybe some sort of time
    limit on edits would be an effective comprimise.\r\n\r\nI like the use of Beorcana
    in the headlines, but I agree in some places it looks too big."
  created: '2007-06-22 17:47:15'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>The esit feature really needs to come back, at least to allow correction
    of typos.</em>\r\n\r\nyou mean the <em>edit</em> feature? (sorry, couldn't resist
    >^p )"
  created: '2007-06-22 17:58:24'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: You see what I mean?
  created: '2007-06-22 18:02:45'
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: "<cite>The new version of Typophile is very advanced technically</cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    loads as well as an octogenarian camomile-drinking grandma would drive a Porsche
    <em>\u2013 Apologies to all octogenarian camomile-drinking typophilic grandmas.</em>
    Regardless of the many new flashy features, if it loads slowly, people will tire
    quickly.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m also not fond of the disappearance of the \u201Cedit\u201D
    feature.\r\n\r\nOn a positive note; I love the alternation of typefaces being
    used on the site. Hats off. I never really used the IM, so I don\u2019t miss it.
    Some obviously do. As I explore the new features further I\u2019m sure I\u2019ll
    warm to them."
  created: '2007-06-22 18:36:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> simultaneous hits\r\n\r\nExcept traffic has been very low since the re-launch...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-22 18:47:22'
- author:
    name: Jared Benson
    picture: 109417
  body: To answer pattyfab's original question, yes, the plan is to rotate the headline
    font on a regular basis, and hopefully provide great exposure to new font releases.
    Watch for news on this and other cool features once we've patched a few post-launch
    jitters.
  created: '2007-06-22 18:49:35'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: 'About the slow load times: pages should speed up considerably as things are
    cached. During the upgrade millions of cached records were dumped from the database.
    It will take a little bit for these caches to be rebuilt. In the mean time the
    server is taking a beating.'
  created: '2007-06-22 20:07:38'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "\"What will happen when there are 63 users (as there are sometimes)?\"\r\n\r\nIMO,
    the more icons the better :) If it is critical to know exactly who is logged in
    at any given moment, you can roll over the icons for user names."
  created: '2007-06-22 20:23:53'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>The new version of Typophile is very advanced technically and took
    mountains of programming time. More fun content and functions already, and more
    coming, as I understand it.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'd like to know what these new advances
    are - maybe I'm missing something. To me the only significant advances are the
    nav at the top and the number of new posts. Both useful but not what I'd call
    a major upgrade. Yes, the icons and the \"featured font\". And the little link
    at the top to the most recent post. But the losses - IMs, editing, search - those
    are big. And the slow loading time, if it doesn't improve, is going to drive users
    away.\r\n\r\nDoes someone want to elaborate on some of the other new functions
    so we know to check them out?"
  created: '2007-06-22 21:37:04'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "Yeah- like patty said.\r\n\r\nAnd I don't know why, but the scroll-over icon
    thing doesn't give me the user name. I just get a blue line beneath the icon.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    like I said before, I don't want to keep complaining about it. It just doesn't
    seem as useful and friendly as it did before, so I'll just check in when I really
    want to ask a question."
  created: '2007-06-22 21:48:00'
- author:
    name: Randolph Burke
    picture: 111910
  body: "Dear All,\r\n\r\nWhat pathetic whining. How much do you pay for access to
    Typophile?\r\n\r\nIt is amusing that every time a newspaper launches with a set
    of new typefaces you all compliment the design while regular readers of the paper
    send hundreds of letters to the editor complaining about boldness of the new type.
    Pot, meet the kettle.\r\n\r\nI for one am thankful to the Typophile developers,
    administrators and sponsors. Long live Typophile! Down with the cry babies!\r\n\r\nI
    hope that I will be able to buy a round of beers for the Typophile development
    team at TypeCon to honor their efforts. Will you all be there? I haven't been
    to Seattle in years. Can anyone recommend a good sports bar?\r\n\r\nSincerely,\r\nRandolph
    T. Burke"
  created: '2007-06-22 22:47:59'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Don't worry, we gripe at other designers too. Randolph I guess you missed
    the thread about the London 2012 Olympic logo.
  created: '2007-06-22 22:57:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Funny, that dog is so cute.\r\n\r\nBTW: http://typophile.com/membership\r\nYou
    may want to hold that beer money.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-22 23:06:47'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>If you think you guys are having troubles, try using an old Mac with
    OS 9!!</em>\r\n\r\nLoud and clear, bowfinpw! Are you having trouble loading the
    homepage? 'Cause I found that in OS 9, going straight to the Forums page is a
    lot quicker (albeit less fun):\r\n\r\n<strong>http://www.typophile.com/cms/forums</strong>"
  created: '2007-06-23 02:48:53'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Then again, OS9 is 8 years old!\r\nIt's ancient. ;)"
  created: '2007-06-23 02:53:16'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "Randolph, thanks for the nice words - the development and design team does
    work pretty hard and will continue to despite the negativity. :) The Typophile
    team will indeed be in Seattle, and I for one would gladly take you up on the
    offer.\r\n\r\nPatty, your troubles with the site are known issues and we are working
    to resolve them. We have one primary developer (genuis) who codes everything by
    hand (after work hours) and to my knowledge has spent the last two days solid
    rebuilding the database from scratch because of some incompatiblity issues with
    our server and the new version of Drupal. Little things may have been lost along
    the way and there are things that we intentionally changed about the design.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-23 03:51:00'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I hope that I will be able to buy a round of beers for the Typophile
    development team at TypeCon to honor their efforts.</em>\r\n\r\nam i the only
    one that thinks that's funny?"
  created: '2007-06-23 03:54:22'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>am i the only one that thinks that's funny?</cite>\r\n\r\nDon\u2019t
    you dare mock beer, Paul. That\u2019s just not cool. \r\n\r\nUnless it\u2019s
    a product of Anheuser Busch or Coors. But those aren\u2019t really beer to begin
    with."
  created: '2007-06-23 04:38:35'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: No.
  created: '2007-06-23 04:40:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Featured Face:\r\n\r\nCarl, you missed a few kern pairs there, pal :-)"
  created: '2007-06-23 17:58:57'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: To be fair, embedded flash fonts don't do kerning.
  created: '2007-06-23 19:53:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I thought there was a way to do it.\r\nI remember Ultrafonts doing it with
    Mana.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-23 20:13:08'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'I wish there was a way to do it. Maybe the Typophile programmers will put
    it on their list.... '
  created: '2007-06-24 01:34:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Perhaps only monowidth fonts should be eligible?
  created: '2007-06-24 01:39:05'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Or only US designers. '
  created: '2007-06-24 01:42:01'
- author:
    name: kattttor
    picture: 112352
  body: "I like Beorcana as a headline type. It would be nice to see rotating fonts
    though, would give a little extra to the site.\r\n\r\nThe site is slower then
    other sites on my computer but it's always been a slow sites. Often it dosen't
    load at all just leaves a white screen. So I think that's a server/traffic problem.\r\n\r\nI
    agree that the Who's Online section with icons is unnecessary having just the
    names is enough. It's a small feature, not important and it should'nt have the
    attention that it has now.\r\n\r\nI have another small thing that really bothers
    me but it has nothing to do with the site update. It's been like this since i
    joined a few months ago. In the Forum the first section that I click on, if I've
    scrolled down the page jumps up to the top immediatley when I click, missing the
    topic I try to click on and I end up somewhere else. So I have to go back and
    click on the right one. This also happens the first time I try to click on a topic.
    I'm guessing it's either a Flash or CSS bug. Very annoying.\r\n\r\nOtherwise I
    like the site, it's fresh and easy to use. Excellent work.\r\n\r\nP.S.\r\nThe
    little effect you got on the Comment field where you can resize the field, I LOVE
    IT."
  created: '2007-06-24 15:15:19'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: I like the iconic roster at the bottom. As to not being able to tell who is
    who by icon, a mouseover effect shows the name (in IE at least).
  created: '2007-06-25 16:38:53'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: '@ Paul: No, that is very funny.'
  created: '2007-06-25 20:09:41'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I hope that I will be able to buy a round of beers for the Typophile
    development team at TypeCon to honor their efforts.</em>\r\n\r\ni thought this
    was funny because i doubt many of them drink... (i know one who would appreciate
    it tho)\r\n\r\nif anyone else has bugs/complaints/comments, please put them in
    the <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/34693\">Bug Thread</a>."
  created: '2007-06-25 21:21:24'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: The heads look SO much better in the lighter weight, THANKS!
  created: '2007-06-26 00:17:00'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: "Hmm... Maybe I should slap together a really ugly, unbalanced font and offer
    it to the Typophile staff for headlines. Then that'd REALLY be worth complaining
    about!!! I'm quite enjoying Beorcana in this function. It is holding my interest
    until I can scrape together enough pennies to buy meself a license...\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-26 01:10:41'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "Could the powers that be please create a new forum just for graphic designs
    and type based art? Just a place where we can dump our type wonderings...\r\n
    [img:sites/default/files/old-images/StencilPunkFont_3599.jpg]\r\n...like my bold
    new Stencil Graffiti font, and all other tuff to explain <em>stuff</em>.\r\n\r\nAnd
    yeah, I realize the pedestrian functionality of the exsisting forums can serve
    as a usefull dumping ground, but wouldn't it be great if it were all in one place.\r\n_________\r\nHiro"
  created: '2007-06-26 07:05:57'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: There's an experimental section in the critiques. If you aren't interested
    in critiques but just want to share what you've been working on, you can post
    your work on your user blog. The blogs are a perfect place for the collective
    type stream of consciousness.
  created: '2007-06-26 07:12:24'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Paul, It took me a minute ( okay a few days) but now I get it.
  created: '2007-06-26 07:13:13'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: Alex, you may not have to scrape any more; "Std" versions on the way very
    soon.
  created: '2007-06-26 15:17:07'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: So what's the difference between a Std and a normal version of a font? Reduced
    character set?
  created: '2007-06-26 22:13:02'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "OT Std is like PS or TT, just converted to OT format so it becomes cross-platform.
    So you could call Std \"normal\". \r\n\r\nOT Pro is cross-platform plus alternates,
    small caps, swash, oldstyle figs, aligned punctuation, possibly large, Central
    European language support, and any other bells and whistles the designer wants
    to add, plus the feature code to make it easy to use all those glyphs. So you
    could call Pro \"extra\" or \"expert\", but since mostly they're called Pro, I'm
    using that name in the new versions. \r\n"
  created: '2007-06-26 22:33:56'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "<em>What pathetic whining. How much do you pay for access to Typophile?</em>\r\n\r\nWhat's
    that got to do with anything?\r\n\r\n<em>The new version of Typophile is very
    advanced technically and took mountains of programming time.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat's
    that got to do with anything?\r\n\r\nWhy is every redesign NOT an improvement?
    This reminds me of what used to be called \"The Big Three\" automakers. Whining
    about \"legacy costs\" while still producing cars that are ugly, not as fuel efficient
    or as reliable, and don't handle as well as the competition. I'm sure it takes
    as much work to execute a poor design as well as a good one. Maybe the \"technically
    advanced programmers\" are in the wrong business. I guess in the end it's about
    having vision. Or not.\r\n\r\nWhen I couldn't buy a font at multiple locations,
    I was lambasted for having IE 5.5. Now it's Mike Yanega's turn to get dumped on
    because he's using OS9. Obviously it's too hard for the \"technically advanced
    programmers\" to make things backwards compatible. Even Blu-Ray and HD DVD players
    are backwards compatible. Well, I have my own opinion as to what (or who) is backwards.\r\n\r\n<em>Edit:</em>
    I just found out that if I enlarge the font in my new Firefox browser (in the
    forum index) it can overrun the right-hand column (\"Support our sponsors\") and
    it looks just like IE 5.5. Was this done to ease my transition to Firefox? This
    does NOT happen within threads themselves.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Duh!_4146.jpg]"
  created: '2007-06-27 00:55:10'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> OT Pro is...\r\n\r\nNot to derail this thread, but there are varying definitions
    of this label. Adobe and FontFont define \"Pro\" as a font with extended language
    support. Their basic OT fonts have the added glyphs and features. Other foundries
    use \"Pro\" to label their fonts with extra features."
  created: '2007-06-27 05:24:01'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: ">Adobe and FontFont define \u201CPro\u201D as a font with extended language
    support.\r\n\r\n\u2026 and Monotype, and Linotype, and\u2026"
  created: '2007-06-27 08:39:04'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Beorcana, as perty as it may be, looks silly in this context. It seems shoehorned
    into position for its own sake, not for the sake of readability or whatever. It's
    understandable, on the other hand, if a rotation of sponsored fonts starts up,
    but I've yet to see it.
  created: '2007-08-07 02:41:33'
date: '2007-06-22 15:37:01'
title: Does the headline font have to be so BIG and so BOLD????

---
