---
author:
  name: Christian Robertson
  picture: 109415
body: 'This is the new bugs thread. [Edit: Please submit but reports and feature requests
  <a href="/contact">here</a>]'
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Bug 1 - Christian's avatar is too cute.
  created: '2007-06-23 19:11:40'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Where is the section \u201Cmy topics\u201D?\r\nWhere is the \u201CInstant
    Message\u201D?"
  created: '2007-06-23 19:42:49'
- author:
    name: Jared Benson
    picture: 109417
  body: "My topics: You can always click \"My account\" (or click your own name) to
    go to your profile page. Click \"Track\" and you'll see all your recent history
    of threads you're participating in.\r\n\r\nInstant Message: The Instant Message
    module was a hack, and caused more problems than benefits. We've axed it but will
    be adding some better, more stable ways to interact with each other.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-23 19:59:36'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: 'It''s really annoying that the header jumps in place a few seconds after
    the pages appear.  '
  created: '2007-06-23 19:59:48'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: Please refer to <a href="http://typophile.com/node/34692">Christian's blog</a>
    for details on the upgrade.
  created: '2007-06-23 20:17:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What Ralf said. And my connection is 3Mbaud.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-23 20:30:18'
- author:
    name: T.
  body: "Where is the RSS-feed for threads?\r\n\r\nT."
  created: '2007-06-23 20:38:17'
- author:
    name: An Accident
  body: "Another request for the missing RSS feeds for subscribing to comments.\r\n\r\nPlease."
  created: '2007-06-23 21:48:20'
- author:
    name: gthompson
    picture: 109676
  body: "Doesn't seem to like Safari. I posted a new thread twice using Safari and
    it never showed up, then switched to Firefox and it worked fine.\r\n\r\nGeorge
    \r\nI felt bad because I had no shoes, until I met a man who had no Bodoni"
  created: '2007-06-24 01:23:48'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: Anyone with the same problem (mac)?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/window2_3821.gif][img:sites/default/files/old-images/window_5823.gif]
  created: '2007-06-24 03:54:35'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "I have porblems in browsing the wiki. e.g. try: http://typophile.com/node/wiki/Designers2#v
    - you will end up on the news page?\r\n \r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\"
    target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2007-06-24 11:07:36'
- author:
    name: T.
  body: I edited my post, after that it appeared as a last/new message.
  created: '2007-06-24 13:25:09'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I am having the same problems as David with the righthand panel (Safari 2.0.4
    on OS X 10.4.9). I would really like the navigation option (next thread/previous
    thread) to return. Speed seems to be improving though.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-06-24 13:55:16'
- author:
    name: kattttor
    picture: 112352
  body: "\r\nIn the Forum the first section that I click on, if I've scrolled down
    the page jumps up to the top immediatley when I click, missing the section I try
    to click on and I end up somewhere else. So I have to go back and click on the
    right one. This also happens the first time I try to click on a topic. It only
    happens once per section/thread. Very annoying.\r\n\r\npeter"
  created: '2007-06-24 15:20:46'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "Where are the next/previous thread links at the top (and I would suggest
    bottom) of each thread?\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2007-06-24 15:53:57'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "The main basic thing is: The functionality we had before and got used to
    it is now GONE. Like \"current topics\" or however it was called to see all most
    recent topics (not just yours). It should be <cite>upgraded</cite> not changed.\r\n\r\nI
    also don't like typography changes like forum names, titles etc."
  created: '2007-06-25 10:22:52'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I'm getting similar weirdness to the top image that David Hamuel posted above.
    It seems related to when I've docked a window and then reopened it. But not always.
    \r\n\r\nI'm also now getting threads that open and the first screen-full doesn't
    show the posts, just the icons. If I scroll down (if it's a long enough thread),
    then subsequent screens show posts. And usually if I scroll back up, I can recover
    the first several posts. But not always.\r\n\r\nI'm browsing with Safari 1.3.2
    on OSX 10.3.9\r\n\r\nAlso, not a bug, per se, but I don't know if you intended
    this: At the top of the screen, I am regularly getting about 115 pixels of dead
    space. \r\n\r\nHmm, okay, wait . . . It looks like now that I've logged in to
    post a comment, that seems to have gone away. Okay, so now it is a bug.\r\n\r\n--
    K."
  created: '2007-06-25 13:52:13'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: 'David and Kent: I encountered something similar until I cleared my cache
    in Safari. Try selecting Safari > Empty Cache from the menu.'
  created: '2007-06-25 17:43:12'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I was hoping that caching was eventually going to make the pages come up
    faster. I'm a little reluctant to clear it all out. But I'll give it a try. I'll
    let you know if the problem reappears.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-25 18:20:43'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: 'Totally unimportant: but what happened to the little arrows on the ''hottest/newest/handpicked''
    panels? The ones that slide out when you want to collapse or open them. Looks
    like a very fast drawn arrow... all crooked. ;)'
  created: '2007-06-25 18:32:20'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Christian --\r\n\r\nSo far so good. \r\n\r\nOne other small thing that you
    might not be aware of. Safari is consistently reporting \"one error opening the
    page\" and says it can't find the host for \"http://misc/id_generic.gif\". Maybe
    this is a local placeholder file, but it must still be in the code somewhere.\r\n\r\nThought
    you might like to know.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-25 19:11:56'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> until I cleared my cache in Safari\r\n\r\nyou cleared yours and helped
    mine :^). Right now I don't have that problem (didn't clear the cache, or anything
    else)"
  created: '2007-06-25 19:19:03'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Safari 2.0.4 - OSX 10.4.9\r\n\r\nI was going to post a jpeg here that shows
    what is happening - a scrambling of info up by the login. But it wouldn't let
    me - Could not copy image. Error\r\n\r\nSurely isn't the first one I've made."
  created: '2007-06-25 21:59:21'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "as noted before, the linking to wiki pages is not operating as before. in
    the past you could link to pages using either their alias [[designers2]] for (typophile.com/wiki/designers2)
    or the title of the article [[Designers 2]].\r\nthe aliases for wiki entries all
    seem to have been wiped out since the changeover, and linking using article names
    seems to be broken. i hope this makes sense and that i have my facts straight,
    but i'm assuming you would know better than i about the functionality pre and
    post changeover."
  created: '2007-06-25 23:11:51'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Re: IM... <em>We\u2019ve axed it but will be adding some better, more stable
    ways to interact with each other.</em>\r\n\r\nCheers to that; I miss the IM feature.\r\n\r\nI
    won't comment on anything else for now, because I am waiting to see Typophile
    on a Mac(hine) running OS X, so that I can see the new features as they are meant
    to be seen."
  created: '2007-06-26 00:47:35'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: is the measure of the wiki articles shorter than that of the discussion threads?
    it seems a bit narrow to me. i guess ideally users should be able to set preferences
    for such things for the site.
  created: '2007-06-26 01:06:28'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "I see things are being fixed right and left (uploads work & edit is back).
    Way to go.\r\n\r\nA suggestion is to have a \"This month's bandwidth brought to
    you by...\" and let people show their appreciation by paying for a month. Too
    cheezy? I sure wouldn't mind if it meant faster loading.\r\n\r\nTo paraphrase
    a Calvin strip from years ago: 10 seconds to load a page? Who's got that kind
    of time?"
  created: '2007-06-26 01:43:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "DANGER, DANGER!\r\n\r\nPosts are sometimes jumping ahead in time! Is it when
    they're edited?\r\nIn any case it makes things very confusing - please fix this
    first!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-26 17:16:53'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "Fontplayer, not cheezy at all :)\r\n\r\nOnce upon a time we had a membership
    system which allowed people to make payments to Typophile and in return receive
    typographic treats and site benefits. We are hoping to implement a similar system
    in the coming weeks. It certainly won't be mandatory, but we would like to be
    able to offer everyone the option to support us and help in our effort to maintain
    the site.\r\n\r\nThere are also ways the community can support us through advertising,
    in banner form and as a Featured Face sponsor. Please email me directly for more
    information regarding these kinds of opportunities. evens@punchcut.com\r\n\r\nKeep
    your eyes peeled for more information in these regards\u2026"
  created: '2007-06-26 19:53:38'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "Just opened this forum and saw the following:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture1_5962.jpg]\r\n\r\nkinda
    buggy..."
  created: '2007-06-26 21:54:45'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Chuck --\r\n\r\nThat looks like the caching thing that David and I had going.
    Try clearing Safari's cache as Christian recommended above. See if that helps.
    I haven't gotten any buggy pages again since I cleared mine.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-26 22:29:21'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "Reposted from http://typophile.com/node/34646\r\n\r\n<em>What pathetic whining.
    How much do you pay for access to Typophile?</em>\r\n\r\nWhat's that got to do
    with anything?\r\n\r\n<em>The new version of Topple is very advanced technically
    and took mountains of programming time.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat's that got to do with
    anything?\r\n\r\n<strong><em>The issue is results and performance, not intention
    or effort.</strong></em>\r\n\r\nWhy is every redesign NOT an improvement? This
    reminds me of what used to be called \"The Big Three\" automakers. Whining about
    \"legacy costs\" while still producing cars that are ugly, not as fuel efficient
    or as reliable, and don't handle as well as the competition. I'm sure it takes
    as much work to execute a poor design as well as a good one. Maybe the \"technically
    advanced programmers\" are in the wrong business. I guess in the end it's about
    having vision. Or not.\r\n\r\nWhen I couldn't buy a font at multiple locations,
    I was lambasted for having IE 5.5. Now it's Mike Yanega's turn to get dumped on
    because he's using OS9. Obviously it's too hard for the \"technically advanced
    programmers\" to make things backwards compatible. Even Blu-Ray and HD DVD players
    are backwards compatible. Well, I have my own opinion as to what (or who) is backwards.
    I think it is irresponsible to do beta testing and bug fixing on a running forum.
    Microsoft should not be a role model.\r\n\r\n<strong>BUG:</strong> If I enlarge
    the font in my new Firefox browser (in the forum index) it can overrun the right-hand
    column (\"Support our sponsors\") and it looks just like my old IE 5.5. Was this
    done to ease my transition to Firefox? This does NOT happen within threads themselves.
    See image at http://typophile.com/node/34646#comment-210703\r\n(Why isn't there
    a way to point to an image that's already uploaded?)\r\n\r\nAfter 32 weeks of
    appearing normally, why is my avatar now truncated?"
  created: '2007-06-27 14:03:59'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "It seems that the smart punctuation on apostrophes is still 'weird'. As you
    can see, the apostrophs are both closing.\r\n\r\n@Renaissance Man: Without getting
    in a flamewar; backwards compatible \xE1 la, but supporting hardware/software
    that is 10 years old or older, that is another story, and just impossible. You
    can't make something like a website backwards compatible if the software that
    is supposed to render it does not support certain features that it uses, like
    flash or even things as CSS and such. That would make no sense at all. :)\r\nBut
    I agree that beta-testing on the running forum is a bit backwards as well."
  created: '2007-06-27 15:14:03'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: I've been in software development business for over a decade and I'm really
    wondering how the hell did you manage the upgrade development? As if there was
    no real plan, previous version code wasn't base for the new one and there hasn't
    been any serious testing. This is the only way I can explain all this "problems".
  created: '2007-06-27 16:11:58'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "Q: No flamewar. While browser compatibility should be a quandary for developers/programmers,
    their general attitude is I don't give a crap, I really don't care if luddites
    don't have access, devil take the hindmost.\r\n\r\nLook, we no longer have 8\"
    or 5 1/4\" floppies (and 3 1/2\" floppies are almost extinct) and I can deal with
    that. But there ARE a lack of Web standards, and the attitude of \"If you don't
    have IE 5.5+ or Safari or Firefox or whatever, I wont let you into my domain\"
    really sucks. There is something seriously wrong when the US Customs REQUIRES
    IE 5.5 or above and the USPS won't function properly with IE 5.5. This is CRAZY!
    And some banks will not let you do online banking without some version of IE!
    See http://www.gripe2ed.com/scoop/story/2007/6/15/85112/3392 \r\n\r\nAll those
    who propagate the \"It's my way or the highway\" mentality are really the problem,
    whether it's the US Government or Typophile.\r\n\r\nFlash absolutely works with
    IE 5.5 SP2. Typophile.com does not.\r\n\r\nIf DVD player manufacturers can be
    backwards compatible, so can web designers. I realize there is some limit, but
    may the most business go to the most compatible websites. It's too bad that Typophile
    is rather unique, and, therefore, as a monopoly, can afford to say to the minority,
    \"Screw you!\"\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-27 16:28:35'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> It\u2019s too bad that Typophile is rather unique, and, therefore, as a
    monopoly, can afford to say to the minority, \u201CScrew you!\u201D\r\n\r\nThe
    attitude must come with the big bucks they are being paid for doing this.\r\n\r\nIn
    case the facetiousness wasn't obvious, I think they are doing a great job with
    what is essentially a free service. Then again, most of it works fine with my
    5 year old Win XP computer. \r\n\r\nIn computers, if you are older than that,
    you really can't blame anyone for not being compatible (imo).\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-27 17:30:13'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Backwards compatible ok, but there is a limit to <em>how far</em> back. Fact
    is that some technologies are just not supported by older software, because it
    has changed significantly or just didn't exist yet. That would mean a website
    shouldn't use that technology, because a minority would not be able to render
    it. That would be rediculous, in my opinion. I mean, MacOS9 is 8 years old, IE
    5.5 is 7 years old. If you want to have technological progress, a loss in backwards
    compatability is the consequence.\r\nObviously most websites are somewhat backwards
    compatible, but eventually rendering errors will show up, that is just inevitable.
    Then again, if you can run a newer version of certain software, then why wouldn't
    you. :)\r\n\r\nI find the comparison to DVD-players a bit far fetched, because
    it has little to do with webdesign and its programming languages."
  created: '2007-06-27 17:47:59'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "I guess you should all be on Windows.  Things are running nicely for me.
    :-)\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2007-06-27 18:04:15'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "I am not going comment much on your thoughts, Steve (which are rather insulting),
    but I must ask how can one align a not-for-profit website with the US Government?
    And a monopoly?\r\n\r\nAll I ask is that everyone keep their arguments outside
    of this particular thread. We'd like to preserve this area for reporting bugs,
    not as a place to vent personal frustrations with the state of technology in our
    modern world."
  created: '2007-06-27 18:07:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "A money-losing monopoly... What a brilliant idea, Renuisance Man!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-27 18:19:32'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "I just saw this thread so apologies if this is on topic :D\r\n\r\nRelated
    to more than anything my surfing style, I really enjoy being able to pop open
    a window without loosing the page I'm on and by instinct I simply hold down the
    option key whenever I click a link . . .\r\n\r\nUnfortunately, this doesn't work
    on the Typophile dynamic Flash home page and so I thought I'd put in my request
    to have it added if it's all the same . . .\r\n\r\nThanks for the great work on
    the update, it's a fantastic improvement . . .\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nStuart :D"
  created: '2007-06-27 21:08:50'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> And of course no one says anything about the bugs I reported.\r\n\r\nDoesn't
    mean they aren't noted. \r\n\r\nThe tone of your posts would influence most people
    not to respond to you. Soften it up a bit. Maybe if you were paying good money
    for this service, you could be as indignant as you seem.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-27 22:59:26'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "Touch\xE9, Dennis. I apologize for the tone. Doesn't make my points invalid.
    I DO recognize the intent and the effort of all involved. The real question--my
    tone aside--is that enough?\r\n\r\nIt seems that we want to lavish kudos for intent
    and effort irrespective of results. (Almost) none of us would tolerate that in
    the design of a brochure or tract or advertisement. What's with that?"
  created: '2007-06-27 23:21:39'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "<em>A money-losing monopoly... What a brilliant idea, Renuisance Man!</em>\r\n\r\nRanting
    Papazian, what ever happened to \"if it ain't broke, don't fix it?\" What's with
    bells and whistles, when this site is so s-l-o-w  -- when it's running? And why
    is it running less often than any other web site I visit? It's like dazzle them
    with BS when you can't deliver the goods.\r\n\r\nZara --It's oh-so-easy (and smug)
    to dismiss \"personal frustrations with the state of technology\" when you aren't
    affected by it. What a cheap shot: if people aren't up to your level of \"technology,\"
    the hell with them?\r\n\r\nAnd of course no one says anything about the bugs I
    reported.\r\n\r\n<em><strong>Why is there no pride in this site -- only defensiveness?</em></strong>\r\n\r\n<strong>BUG:</strong>
    Why do edits result in a post being reposted out of order?"
  created: '2007-06-27 23:31:21'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: 'Steve, I think you need to cool off a bit, you are taking my words and constructing
    your own story with them. If you want to make personal attacks, take them out
    of this thread, or preferably offline. '
  created: '2007-06-28 00:04:00'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: This site is hosted on donated Media Temple server space (which we are grateful
    for, but we've outgrown it and are upgrading soon.) The site is maintained by
    a handful of dedicated people when their billable client work is done. The recent
    update represents fixes to a list of previous issues (some visible, some behind-the-scenes).
    To be blunt, I'm a little put off by your sense of entitlement. How about a hint
    of gratitude that a free resource you enjoy and benefit from gets some needed
    love once in a while?
  created: '2007-06-28 00:10:00'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: A note about thread rss. The feature has temporarily been removed for performance
    reasons. The thread rss feeds aren't cached as easily as the more global feeds,
    and can slow things down a little as they are requested regularly. However, this
    is a feature we as users can't live without for too long, so it's definitely coming
    back.
  created: '2007-06-28 02:03:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Instead of RSS, please re-implement emailing of posts. I dunno, I guess that's
    not a hip proposition, but I see that as having the best functionality for many
    \"serious\" Typophile users.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-28 02:35:43'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'In a small unassuming voice: I miss emailing posts too.'
  created: '2007-06-28 02:51:21'
- author:
    name: Addison Hall
  body: "Most of this site actually works pretty well with older browsers -- or at
    least it should. Just turn off CSS and you should get a decent, bare-bones version
    that'll work just fine. As long as you use well-formatted HTML (xHTML, whatever)
    the site should look fine in Netscape 1.0.\r\n\r\nThe only problem I see with
    this is the Flash nav at the top. Maybe there should be some text links somewhere
    on each page. Or use SWFObject to provide alternate content when Flash isn't available...
    just a suggestion.\r\n\r\nI'm on Mac OS 10.4.9 and all is well on Firefox and
    Camino so far."
  created: '2007-06-28 04:39:26'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "I very much like Typophile. We just have something to compare it with from
    before. That's why everyone is ranting about so much.\r\n\r\n<strong>Suggestion</strong>:
    I'd like to see the \"recent topics\" back because it's much easier to participate
    on forum if you participate in many. You don't forget of any. Without this ability,
    you have to search all first page forum (sub)topics and you probably forget about
    some..."
  created: '2007-06-28 07:10:07'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "Let me be clear about this: Typophile.com is a singular resource made possible
    by the hard work and dedication of unpaid lovers of type. It is a resource I cherish.
    Were this not so, I wouldn't care about the slowness or downtime of the site or
    the \"advanced technology\" that serves the majority and makes it difficult for
    a minority.\r\n\r\nThe love of type and the dedication of those that run it (and
    the defensiveness thereof) does not excuse the site's flaws or the premature rollout
    of buggy software. We can be brutal in criticizing a font, and be little short
    of obsessive-compulsive about kerning, letter spacing, and word spacing, and not
    apply that same perfectionist passion to the site that we love and cherish. Why
    is that?"
  created: '2007-06-28 10:19:06'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>All I ask is that everyone keep their arguments outside of this particular
    thread. We\u2019d like to preserve this area for reporting bugs[...]</em>\r\n\r\nYou're
    right. Apologies for hijacking the thread. :)"
  created: '2007-06-28 13:47:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Things are much much faster this morning. Thanks.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-28 15:12:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'The top navigation links are a bit buried in the first post, which varies
    in length. It would be better for ease of navigation if they were in the same
    place in every page, either above the thread or to the right of it. '
  created: '2007-06-28 15:45:11'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<strong>Issue</strong> Editing a response. I realized I missed a word in
    one of my sentences, went back (after receiving a few replies) and made the correction,
    hit \"post comment\" as usual and found that my original post was removed and
    the edited one was placed as if it was a regular reply post labeling it as \"new\".
    \r\n\r\n<strong>Suggestion</strong> I'd like to be able to tag a topic for tracking/returning
    to later without posting a comment to it. Is this do-able? I usually stumble across
    some great discussions well after it's been closed, or it so far along I don't
    really have much to contribute to, but would like to go back to and reread or
    see what's been added to it.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-28 15:48:08'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I like the redesign - but I'm here on a T1 at work and it is considerably
    slower than before - both when you load the site and click on a thread. It's also
    much slower at home on DSL.\r\n\r\nIt seems like the icons for the threads take
    the longest to load - but I'm no web designer and it could be that they are just
    the last to load.\r\n\r\nThe main entrance page does not seem to load unless it's
    in an active tab - and then it takes a while.\r\n\r\nOSX 10.4.9 & Safari 2.0.4\r\n\r\nI
    like the new icon bit at the bottom, but I don't show up unless I post something.\r\n\r\nMany
    thanks for the herculean effort and I'm sure that eventually this will be tweaked
    to perfection."
  created: '2007-06-28 17:23:16'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>Issue Editing a response. I realized I missed a word in one of my sentences,
    went back (after receiving a few replies) and made the correction, hit \u201Cpost
    comment\u201D as usual and found that my original post was removed and the edited
    one was placed as if it was a regular reply post labeling it as \u201Cnew\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nI've
    had this problem too. I went into a font ID and added a link - and then went back
    in and added some text and now I'm out of ID contention... we IDers count on slipping
    the ID in fast, this could screw up the horse race."
  created: '2007-06-28 22:45:34'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: http://typophile.com/node/34830
  created: '2007-06-28 23:06:06'
- author:
    name: Ex Libris
    picture: 112255
  body: I have an observation to offer regarding the speed of pages loading since
    the upgrade. I have noticed that if I visit Typophile as a guest, i.e. not logged
    in, then the pages all load like lightening. However, when I'm logged in, everything
    loads a lot slower. I wonder whether others have noticed this.
  created: '2007-06-29 14:05:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The strong message I am getting in this thread and in the 'moritorium on
    editing posts' thread is that   good functionality is more important to Typophile
    users than additional functionality. \r\n\r\nIMHO the most important things for
    Typophile users are: 1. To post and read quickly. 2. To navigate easily and quickly.
    3. To post images and PDFs quickly and easily--and throughout a thread. \r\n\r\nI
    would humbly suggest that getting this basic functionality working well should
    be a higher priority than adding new functionality. "
  created: '2007-06-29 15:11:58'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> I have noticed that if I visit Typophile as a guest, i.e. not logged in,
    then the pages all load like lightening. \r\n\r\nI tried logging out, hoping to
    speed things up, and things didn't load faster for this old Win XP computer.\r\n\r\nThe
    speed thing will be taken care of when a new host is in place. Might as well be
    patient until then. Patience is supposed to be a virtue, or something like that,
    so look at this as an opportunity to grow.\r\n; )"
  created: '2007-06-29 15:34:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Speed is great, but accuracy is not secondary. I don't know about you,\r\nbut
    reading things out of order very fast is not very efficient at all.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-29 15:36:52'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: If things are screwed up, I'd rather ascertain that quickly and get on to
    other things.
  created: '2007-06-29 15:53:10'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: If things are screwed up, I'd rather ascertain that quickly.
  created: '2007-06-29 15:53:36'
date: '2007-06-23 18:59:49'
title: Typophile Bugs and Suggestions

---
