---
author:
  name: tamye
  picture: 110562
body: Who's going to TypeCon? I'm happy to help hook up roommates at the conference
  hotel and answer any questions. I can't wait to see everyone! I'll arrive Saturday,
  July 28. A little group of us are driving up to Seattle from the Bay Area - I hope
  we can find a way to brand the SOTA van without angering the rental card gods...
  I'm looking forward to this little road trip - properly documented with photos taken
  of signage all along the way, of course!
comments:
- author:
    name: Shu
    picture: 109463
  body: Spray paint comes off with soap and water right? Seriously though the van
    will be 'rockin. I haven't taken a road trip in a long time and heading back up
    to my home state seems appropriate. I might need to purchase a new camera. Look
    out Seattle!
  created: '2007-06-25 19:45:04'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I'm going to be there again this year! Woohoo! This year looks jam-packed
    too. As much of a geek as I am so far I'm looking forward to Frank Martinez's
    workshop on copyright protection. I mean you all know I'll be there a day before
    everything begins anyway, but if you don't have at least one good excuse to get
    there before Thursday night, I think this year's education forum is easily a great
    reason to get to TypeCon early.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-25 19:49:56'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: I ll arrive the 31th! It will be my first type event ever . I can't wait to
    be there!
  created: '2007-06-25 21:18:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Anybody know if the hotel gym is any good? Also, I\u2019m loosly associated
    with a local art/culture magazine/web site that is interested in having me write
    some stuff about Typecon; is it ok for me to try and interview some of the designers?"
  created: '2007-06-25 21:51:18'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I'd really like to go, and probably could join your ride since I'm next to
    San Jose here, but I just can't afford to go on a convention road trip right now.\r\nMaybe
    next time, wherever it winds up at."
  created: '2007-06-25 23:54:20'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "James/jpad --\r\n\r\nI'm the chair of SOTA's PR/Mktg committee. I'll be happy
    to coordinate with you and help you with whatever access I can for any article
    you write. Contact me outside the forum and let's talk. \r\n\r\nHmm, looks like
    there's no contact link anymore. Go ahead and e-mail me via typophile: kentlew
    {at} typophile {dot} com, and I'll get back to you.\r\n\r\n-- Kent.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-26 00:16:50'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: jpad, the designers who go to TypeCon, are, with extremely rare exceptions,
    friendly and approachable. Gracious and willing to talk with people interested
    in hearing them. I think you can wind up with great content for a piece you might
    write.
  created: '2007-06-26 00:29:48'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "James -- Hmm, looks like the Typophile.com e-mail aliases aren't working
    either, right now. If you want to contact me, you can easily find me through <a
    href=\"http://www.kentlew.com\" target=new>my website</a>.\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2007-06-26 15:34:34'
- author:
    name: Jonathan Clede
    picture: 110376
  body: "I'm curious what the extremely budget-conscious or \"cheap\" people are doing
    for lodging/transportation. Any good ideas? Are there any cheap motels within
    public-transit-distance from the Crown Plaza Hotel?\r\n\r\nThanks!"
  created: '2007-06-26 17:46:21'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "There are a fair number of budget hotels in the downtown area, some of them
    are even more-or-less walking distance from the Crowne Plaza.\r\n\r\nFor instance,
    the Kings Inn on 5th Ave apparently starts at $59/night and is walking distance
    (9 blocks, 0.7 miles).\r\n\r\nSee for instance:\r\nhttp://www.all-hotels.com/usa/washington/seattle/central__downtown_c1.htm\r\n\r\nThe
    Travelodge by the Space Needle and the Quality Inn at 225 Aurora Ave N are both
    about 1.2 miles from the Crowne Plaza. The Eighth Avenue Inn is about 0.9 miles.\r\n\r\nDowntown
    Seattle has pretty good public transit to most areas, so if you want to stay a
    little further afield and bus in that's also an option.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-06-26 21:52:12'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: Jonathan, you might also consider hooking up with a roomie for the Crowne
    Plaza, which makes it affordable even for low budgets. Then you can be in the
    thick of the conference activities including the after-hours sessions in the hotel
    bar and people's hotel rooms. A lot of networking goes on at night ;)
  created: '2007-06-26 22:09:26'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: "Last year at Boston some people had a wonderful <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/jlt/213679179/in/set-72157594233253590/\">sushi</a>
    that I only enjoyed in pictures. So Tamye, this year, where is the good sushi
    close to the Crowne Plaza?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-27 17:21:55'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: ale, i told you i'll fill you in on the best sushi places... i've got my sources.
    :P
  created: '2007-06-27 17:25:42'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Tamye isn't the right person to ask about sushi. ;^P
  created: '2007-06-27 17:51:36'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: Ale, don't you worry about the sushi. We have you covered - but make sure
    you bring at least one thousand dollars.
  created: '2007-06-27 18:48:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I\u2019d agree with Tamye, hooking up at the conference hotel would likely
    be the cheapest option, splitting the room two, three or why not, four ways.\r\n\r\nHotel
    gym - tiny. Any gym-aholics should contact me off-line and I\u2019ll look into
    guest/short-term membership at one of the many great gyms near-by. \r\n\r\nSushi
    - I\u2019m not a huge sushi-fan but we\u2019ll include some recommendations in
    the dining guide. \r\n\r\nCheapskates - offer of camping in my front yard is still
    open. I\u2019m a 20 minute bus ride from downtown.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-27 21:06:01'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Sushi - I\u2019m not a huge sushi-fan but we\u2019ll include some recomendations
    in the dining guide.</em>\r\n\r\nsi, my sister lives up that way and is quite
    steeped in Japanese culture and would know the best places. want me to forward
    her recommendations to you for your guide? i think she knows where there good
    indian and mexican places are as well and probably the best seafood joints. do
    you want this kind of input?"
  created: '2007-06-27 21:08:35'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Sure, send them to me and I'll pass them on. As for Mexican, the best place
    is the taco truck on Rainier Ave and Graham Street, best Indian... my house ;-)
  created: '2007-06-27 21:20:16'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: 'Sii: how many of us will be eating indian food in your house? lol'
  created: '2007-06-27 21:49:33'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Si wrote: <em>Cheapskates - offer of camping in my front yard is still open.
    I\u2019m a 20 minute bus ride from downtown.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's not that we are
    cheap, we were going to be camping the whole time as a vacation.  ;-)\r\n\r\nGranted,
    that doesn't really matter, since we're now not coming anyway...."
  created: '2007-06-27 22:38:13'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: "A very cool TypeCon attendee from LA is looking for a roomie (or two) for
    the Crowne Plaza. Female, loves type and letterpress, and is a super nice person
    with a great sense of humor. If interested, please post here or contact me directly
    at tamye |at| typesociety.org.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-27 23:06:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> A very cool TypeCon attendee from LA\r\n\r\nRedundant.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-27 23:10:48'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>...since we\u2019re now not coming anyway...</em>\r\n\r\n*Sigh*... I
    think I will not be able to go either, this year.  :-("
  created: '2007-06-28 00:58:40'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Me neither. Blame it on <a href=http://www.virginfestival.com>them</a href>.
  created: '2007-06-28 02:18:52'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Wow, I actually recognized a few names on there (besides The Police, Wu-Tang
    Clan, and Cheap Trick)! Guess I actually listen to some of the stuff they play
    on our local campus radio station where I volunteer....  ;-)
  created: '2007-06-28 02:24:53'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: Don't expect that much from The Police. I had tickets last Wed. night which
    I had to give to a friend, so I could see a client in Mexicali, BC (116 degrees
    F), and he returned a report that The Police held true to his previous experience
    that they just aren't as good live.
  created: '2007-06-28 02:34:00'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Hmmm...I saw The Who there last year and they were bada$$. I was hoping to
    have a similar experience this year.
  created: '2007-06-28 02:49:30'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Friends I know who saw Mr. Sting et al in Vancouver thought the show was worth
    the ca$h....
  created: '2007-06-28 03:39:10'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: <strong>The Who!</strong> Even though it's down to just two of the original
    members, I would love to see them. I hope they tour again soon.
  created: '2007-06-28 03:51:46'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "So, how about that Typecon deal? Seattle, you say...\r\n: )"
  created: '2007-06-28 03:57:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">The Who\r\n\r\nSaw them in '68, at a free concert they gave at the Round
    House in London in support of the LSE protesters, of which I was one. I think
    I still have hearing damage from it. The next time I saw them was at the Concert
    for New York in 2001. They sounded great, and rocked the house--Madison Square
    Garden.  "
  created: '2007-06-28 04:13:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "RE: SUSHI \r\n\r\nThe spot without a doubt is on Madison. It's called Nishino.
    They actually have REAL wasabi. What do you mean real wasabi? I mean the actual
    stuff uncut with that horseradish & green dye like 99% of the time. But you have
    to know to ask for it. No secret handshakes needed. ;-). And I think their ginger
    is saccharine free too. Also ( unfortunately ) unusual. It's best to reserve ahead
    of time. The Salmon is almost always the best thing to order. It's not that close
    to the Crowne though."
  created: '2007-06-28 09:36:48'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: "Eben\r\nyou will have to guide us. The images said all\r\nhttp://www.nishinorestaurant.com/\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-28 14:21:03'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Well, I made my hotel reservations at the Crowne Plaza today and they had
    no more non-smoking rooms at the $169 rate. I opted for something a bit more extravagant
    at the Crowne rather than take a smoking room. (I personally have nothing against
    smoking, and do enjoy it on occasion, but smoking rooms in hotels always smell
    like stale ashtrays to me)\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2007-06-28 22:00:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Eben, I've heard that in Japan proper asking for wasabi is frowned upon.\r\nI
    guess like telling a French chef he should've used more salt or something.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-28 22:40:38'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "James, I just went in via the direct link (see http://www.typecon.com/hotel-travel.html)
    ... \r\n\r\nhttp://www.ichotelsgroup.com/redirect?path=rates&checkInDate=27&checkInMonthYear=062007&checkOutDate=09&checkOutMonthYear=072007&brandCode=cp&hotelCode=seadt&GPC=AAD&_IATAno=99801505\r\n\r\n...and
    booked a non-smoking room at the original rate.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2007-06-28 22:47:22'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Thanks for the advice Si.\r\n\r\nI'm arriving a bit early (Sunday thru Sunday)
    so they ran out of rooms for early arrivals.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2007-06-28 23:06:41'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: "Si, James, it's because we are oversold on the shoulder nights (early/late)
    of our block. We still have a fair amount of rooms August 1-5, but the days before
    and after that are either way oversold or a couple of rooms away from being oversold.
    So anyone booking on the shoulders, like James, will find that there may not be
    rooms available on those nights (at least not at our super discount rate). \r\n\r\nI
    am working with the hotel to increase our room block on the oversold nights, but
    the hotel and Seattle in general is super busy that week and rates have gone sky
    high. We blocked a huge amount of rooms, but more people are coming in early and
    staying late than ever before.\r\n\r\nSo, please, anyone planning to attend, I
    could not be more serious. Book now before rooms are completely gone or you are
    paying NYC/Chicago/Brighton prices ;)"
  created: '2007-06-28 23:48:56'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Ah, makes sense. I''d suggest staying at the Crowne for the core event and
    maybe picking another hotel for the other days. The new Pan Pacific is right by
    Cornish - perfect for the workshop atendee with a lot of money. '
  created: '2007-06-29 00:29:37'
- author:
    name: Shu
    picture: 109463
  body: "Rounding up local volunteers and have a friend who is looking for a roommate
    for the Con. She is a young designer and lots of fun. Its not my fault this sounds
    like a personal ad. Anyone out there interested? You will have Shu's personal
    thanks and maybe if you are lucky I will invite you to one of my raging hotel
    room parties.\r\n\r\nShu"
  created: '2007-06-29 06:05:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Tamye, when do you expect locations for the workshops to be finalised? I'm
    thinking, if most of those I wish to attend are at the MS campus, I might stay
    on the Redmond side for the first three days, and move to the Crowne after that.
  created: '2007-06-29 07:47:21'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Alejandro, I would be honored to take you & the Sushi-holics. Actually their
    cold Sake is worth it too.\r\n\r\nHrant: in Japan it is obnoxious to ask for what
    they don't have. It makes them loose face. If they had it, it would not be obnoxious
    to ask for. Sense?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-29 07:58:07'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "John, all the other workshops are taking place at SVC and Cornish, which
    are just north of downtown. If you're staying near Microsoft for the first few
    days and still want to attend the workshops your best bet might be the 545 Sound
    Transit express bus, it drops off five min walk from Cornish, 20 min walk to SVC.\r\n\r\nHaving
    said that the 545 going the other way will whisk you to and from Microsoft in
    about half an hour, so the Crowne Plaza would be a good bet too.  \r\n"
  created: '2007-06-29 11:44:24'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: Eben, it's a deal!
  created: '2007-06-29 13:28:46'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: "John, all the workshops except the first Tuesday Math workshop are at Cornish
    and SVC. The only other TypeCon thing not in the downtown area is the Wed. night
    Helvetica screening, but we'll be shuttling attendees between the Crowne and UW
    for that.\r\n\r\nShu, I have some peeps looking for roomies - I'll contact you
    offline.\r\n\r\nI will give an update on the hotel room situation on the shoulder
    nights as soon as I get a report from the hotel this morning."
  created: '2007-06-29 15:59:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Thanks, Si and Tamye. It looks like I'm sorted for a shared room at the Crowne
    for all nights.
  created: '2007-06-29 18:06:43'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: Great, John! So glad you'll be there.
  created: '2007-06-29 18:12:03'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: Looks like I got in, Tues. thru Sun. See you there.
  created: '2007-06-29 18:13:38'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: Wait wait wait, I know your all not going to want me there but it doesn't
    matter. All I want to know is where is this conference and when? Is it totally
    typographic and i assume hence the name yes, but just making sure. Thanks
  created: '2007-06-29 22:28:05'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Hey Faz. It is ALL type ALL the time. '
  created: '2007-06-29 22:29:45'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: Yup, I assumed so but when and where?
  created: '2007-06-29 22:33:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://www.typecon.com/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-29 22:50:20'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "When and where is this event?\r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2007-07-04 02:49:54'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\r\nFor the love of fonts can someone, anyone, PLEASE let us know WHEN and
    WHERE this event is taking place - cryptic URLs and a year of publicity is no
    help whatsoever! Do you think I have time to visit web sites and read blogs? JUST
    TELL ME WHERE IT IS!\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-04 02:56:13'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Seattle, August 1 to 5. '
  created: '2007-07-04 02:56:45'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Now, now. There is no need to use all caps. ;^) '
  created: '2007-07-04 03:37:14'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Is there a bus that runs between the Crowne Plaza and SVC, or should I just
    plan on walking since it\u2019s not far anyway?"
  created: '2007-07-04 04:12:39'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: We will have a shuttle bus for peeps staying at the Crowne Plaza. It's not
    a long walk, and the weather will be great. But the bus will be there for those
    who need it.
  created: '2007-07-04 05:39:32'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: "OK, weird, the first time I've ever had a double post. It's terrifying!\r\n\r\nSo
    I'll just mention that early bird has been extended through midnight Pacific,
    July 5. That's this Thursday! Some of the workshops are full now, so hurry up
    if you want to take one.\r\n\r\nAnd this thing we call TypeCon - it's August 1-5
    in Seattle! A feast of typographic goodness. http://www.typecon.com"
  created: '2007-07-04 05:44:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am looking for a roomate who is not a smoker. I do not have a reservation
    yet.\r\nMy tentative plans are to arrive July 31 and depart early August 6th.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-04 18:44:33'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: "Chris, I recommend making your reservation for those dates. We are likely
    to run out of rooms on the 31st. You can always change or cancel later if you
    need to, but I don't want you to be stuck without a pillow :)\r\n\r\nI am keeping
    an eye out for a roomie for you."
  created: '2007-07-04 23:30:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Tamye!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-05 02:10:27'
- author:
    name: cheshiredave
    picture: 110433
  body: I'm in! Registered and got a room at the Crowne Plaza. Now all I need is a
    plane ticket...
  created: '2007-07-05 23:20:38'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: I live right downtown. If someone, particularly someone with no sense of shame,
    doesn't mind sleeping on the floor, I'd put them up for a night or two. Keys are
    a problem, but if you're poor...
  created: '2007-07-05 23:29:06'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: And you have beer...
  created: '2007-07-05 23:30:21'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: <a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/stewf/731857901/">Another reason to
    TypeCon.</a>
  created: '2007-07-06 09:53:21'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Yey! Chesh it is about stinkin' time you got back in the groove!
  created: '2007-07-07 01:40:16'
- author:
    name: bowfinpw
    picture: 110174
  body: "Just to jump in on this thread -- I'm going for the first time this year.
    I live about 25 miles south of Seattle, so I couldn't miss this chance. I hope
    I get to meet a lot of you who have only been screen icons all these years. I'm
    looking forward to it.\r\n\r\n- Mike Yanega"
  created: '2007-07-09 18:53:16'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Will be lovely to meet you, Mike!
  created: '2007-07-09 19:21:11'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Likewise!
  created: '2007-07-09 22:25:33'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "Chesh! I concur with Tiff\u2019s comment, you slacker.\r\n\r\nAnd Mike, I
    look forward to meeting you face to face, rather than comment to comment.\r\n\r\nOoh,
    I\u2019m getting all tingly with anticipation ..."
  created: '2007-07-13 18:02:38'
- author:
    name: design
  body: "Hello Everyone,\r\n\r\nI am looking to share a room at the Crown Plaza. I
    have a double non-smoking reserved Thurs 8/2 - Mon 8/6. Although I am happy to
    cancel this if someone has a room to share for this time period.\r\n\r\nDrop me
    an email to discuss:\r\nAshley Pigford\r\nAssistant Professor, University of Delaware\r\n33,
    Male, Graphic Design / Media Art / Experimental Letterpress\r\nwww.designisgoodforyou.com\r\n\r\nashleypigford@yahoo.com\r\n\r\ncheers."
  created: '2007-07-13 21:50:49'
- author:
    name: cheshiredave
    picture: 110433
  body: "Grant -- I'm not slacking, I'm just hard at work on that $%&*! Veer jigsaw
    puzzle! ;)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/puzzle_6253.jpg]"
  created: '2007-07-18 20:16:14'
- author:
    name: sschiada
    picture: 112663
  body: "I will be attending for the first time Wednesday night. I will be at the
    Helvetica documentary. Next day I'm attending two workshops. Anyone taking the
    class on hinting?\r\n\r\nSSchiada\r\nWipf & Stock Publishers\r\n199 W. 8th Avenue,
    Suite 3\r\nEugene, Oregon 97401\r\nsylvia@wipfandstock.com\r\n(541) 344-1528"
  created: '2007-07-18 22:38:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am taking Miguel's class on hinting.\r\nBTW, Do you know Carl Oslund, a
    designer in Eugene?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-18 23:23:55'
- author:
    name: sschiada
    picture: 112663
  body: "No, Chris, I do not. Will he be at TypeCon?\r\n\r\nSSchiada\r\nWipf & Stock
    Publishers\r\n199 W. 8th Avenue, Suite 3\r\nEugene, Oregon 97401\r\nsylvia@wipfandstock.com\r\n(541)
    344-1528"
  created: '2007-07-19 02:04:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "No, he has a graphic design office in Eugene called Oslund Design. We went
    to graduate school together and shared a house.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-19 02:13:44'
- author:
    name: Chiba Chiba
    picture: 112595
  body: "I\xB4m a brasilian graphic designer and will be attending typecon seatlle.I\xB4ll
    be arriving tuesday, august first and am looking for someone to share a room.
    Anyone late with the booking like me? Please let me know! Peace. Frederico"
  created: '2007-07-21 22:55:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "My roomie just cancelled.\r\nAnyone want to share at the Crowne?\r\n1st thru
    5th."
  created: '2007-07-31 18:33:59'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "I know the locals may disagree, but I still think Nishino has the best omakase
    & sushi south of Tojo. I'm looking forward to a meal there.\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\njlt
    : http://www.hewnandhammered.com"
  created: '2007-07-31 22:31:58'
date: '2007-06-25 10:11:49'
node_type: forum
title: It's time for the TypeCon "who's-going-who-needs-a-roomie-who-wants-to-carpool"
  thread

---
