---
author:
  name: ebensorkin
  picture: 109987
body: "When does faux Chinese style lettering show up? 19th Century?\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/stjamescc_5089.gif]"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Too funny.\r\n\r\nI would say soon after the gold rush.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-26 14:21:44'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "The gold rush is early 20th century I think.\r\n\r\nAnybody else?"
  created: '2007-06-26 17:45:57'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> The gold rush is early 20th century I think\r\n\r\nDepends which one you
    mean. Most people think of the gold rush that populated California ... which started
    with the discovery of Gold in 1848 and the big rush starting in 49. Which would
    be mid 19th.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-26 18:02:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Alastair Johnston (Alphabets to Order) dates a Cleveland example to 1887,
    hot on the heels of Gilbert & Sullivan's <em>The Mikado.</em> Faux-Japanese; is
    there a distinction?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-26 18:34:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Not really. Even in today's LA most people can't tell the difference.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-26 18:38:47'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I see. \r\n\r\nAnd now I have done some more research the Gold rush here
    in Alaska runs from the 19th to the early 20th.\r\n\r\nWhat I know is that a huge
    number of these display faces were invented in the 19th century. But I was not
    sure about the 1st use of this specific kind. It might come from the 1920's...\r\n\r\nWho
    is the typophile with the most history?  "
  created: '2007-06-26 18:44:25'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "hey Nick. I didn't see that!\r\n\r\nOf course there are differences. Many.
    But not such that they would show up in this kind of faux face. This kind of thing
    is too far removed from either tradition for the differences to be felt."
  created: '2007-06-26 18:47:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/susan_6227.jpg]\r\n\r\nThis is the title
    page from a children's book of 1912 (yes, the colors are that subtle).\r\nI'd
    say it shows the connection between the East, art-nouveau, and more general layout
    and letterforms of that era. Not to mention modernism, but surprinting letters
    over colored discs...\r\nOr perhaps it's the other way around, and the author/illustrator
    just liked to mash things up.\r\nBut really, after the wheel starts spinning,
    what's the diff?"
  created: '2007-06-26 18:48:10'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "That example doesn't seem all that close to me.\r\n\r\nBut it's nice to see
    all the same. I can readily appreciate that the art nouveau folks would be interested
    in drawing on Japanese & chinese style.\r\n\r\nYou know if anything I think this
    most recent image draws on Japanese Hiragana for inspration rather than the Chinese
    Kanji. See especially the 'ji'\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hiragana2_4546.gif]"
  created: '2007-06-26 18:52:27'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I just thought of a german book of display faces I have to consult. I'll let
    you know if I find something.
  created: '2007-06-26 18:53:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">is there a distinction?\r\n\r\nThe Chinese characters used for print have
    no circular strokes, and differ in this way from the Japanese Hiragana that Eben
    shows. They are straight, cornered, and curved with various terminals, but never
    circular. Chinese cursive writing or 'grass script' does have circular strokes
    but it is not normally printed as text. Incidentally, Kanji is the Japanese translation
    of Hanzi, the Chinese word for their characters. "
  created: '2007-06-26 19:14:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hopefully we're talking about \"orientalized\" Latin fonts,\r\nwhere there
    really is no difference, certainly not among\r\nthe \"users\" of such typography.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-26 19:23:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I particularly like the way she (Price Hacker) has aligned the I and A with
    left verticals, for a kind of \"flush left, angled right\" style.\r\n\r\n<em>doesn\u2019t
    seem all that close to me.</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps, but an alternative version of
    fitting type to rigorous layout constraints would be more \"constructed\" -- the
    genre that connects Mackintosh's \"geometric\" Art Nouveau with Van Doesburg's
    de Stijl lettering. In relation to which, her lettering has a spare and deft gestural
    looseness that is more Eastern in feeling. Or you could say it was feminine, but
    that's a whole nother dimension of politicization...\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-26 19:28:04'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite>..where there really is no difference, certainly not among\r\nthe \u201Cusers\u201D
    of such typography.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, the user is unlikely to have an awareness
    of some kind of lingering miasmatic chineseness or japanesseness. I agree Absolutely.
    \r\n\r\nAs far as observable formal differences: they are still observable - linking
    them with formal traits in traditional writing is easy. Bill is off to a good
    start.\r\n\r\nNick: You can say 'femme' if you want - as far as I am concerned."
  created: '2007-06-26 20:33:28'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "Vincent Van Gogh used faux-Asian lettering in several of his Japonisme paintings
    in the late 1870s.\r\n\r\nHe was certainly aware of the difference between \"Chinese-ness\"
    and \"Japanese-ness\" although he combined faux-Japanese 'style' English lettering
    with nonsense Japanese(-ish)characters in a few drawings and paintings.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\njlt
    : http://www.hewnandhammered.com"
  created: '2007-06-26 21:02:03'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I'm pretty sure I've seen faux-Asian fonts in the ATF collection that date
    at least back to the 1890s.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-06-26 21:55:28'
- author:
    name: Berg
    picture: 112334
  body: "Some old \"Oriental\" magician posters, around 1914, with faux Chinese style
    lettering\r\n\r\n[[http://www.magicgallery.com/images/sooribbons.jpg|Old oriental
    magician poster]]\r\n[[http://www.circusmuseum.nl/eng/|More magician posters]]
    in the magician section\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-26 23:54:57'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thomas, Excellent! Now were getting somewhere!\r\n\r\nThanks IIr\xE8ne, JLTastic,"
  created: '2007-06-27 00:45:40'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: My german book of types has no dates... I will have to keep looking.
  created: '2007-06-27 08:19:40'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "The 1925 BB&S catalog shows three faces called Japanet, Pekin, and Bamboo.
    None of them is truly oriental, but seem to evoke an Eastern exoticism. MacGrew
    reports that each was originally designed in the late 1800s -- 1893, 1888, & 1889,
    respectively. Each was also originally marketed under a different name, having
    nothing to do with the Orient -- Wedge Gothic, Dormer, & Freak, respectively.\r\n\r\nClearly,
    BB&S was trying to tap a trend. ATF later recast some of these in 1954.\r\n\r\n--
    K.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-27 13:12:18'
- author:
    name: Berg
    picture: 112334
  body: "Here are some informations and pictures of [[http://www.baxleystamps.com/litho/hasegawa.shtml#1st_ed_1-2printings|japanese
    books]] published in Japan for Westerners around 1890 and the [[http://www.baxleystamps.com/litho/tsukiji_type.shtml|Tokyo
    Tsukiji Type Foundry ]] who made the fonts.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-27 13:18:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/eq_1891_2ed_cvr_5912.jpg]\r\n\r\nOne
    of the Tsukiji books.\r\nNice the way the typography reflects the subject matter."
  created: '2007-06-27 16:52:58'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Nick: Nice one. The T & P seem to be prefiguring the model nicely.\r\n\r\nThis
    example maybe even more so:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ogawa_art_folio_5353.jpg]\r\n\r\nLook
    at the A and  R. ( 1898 ) "
  created: '2007-06-27 20:47:47'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Perhaps mentioned already, and I might paraphrase incorrectly, but there was
    a trade embargo at that time which was lifted making travel to the Far East much
    easier. I think this is where the onslaught began. The Aesthetic movement was
    deeply infatuated with it all.
  created: '2007-06-27 20:58:00'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Tell us more Tiffany! In What year? CDid it have to do with the Russo-Japanese
    war?
  created: '2007-06-27 21:22:34'
- author:
    name: Typical
    picture: 112513
  body: "Ok, I'll say it: Chinoiserie.\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chinoiserie"
  created: '2007-06-28 12:10:21'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Just an observation/question... When you see the examples posted so far,
    do you think they look at least vaguely Chinese/Japanese?\r\n\r\nBeing Korean,
    I am quite familiar with the Chinese and Japanese scripts, and can't force myself
    to look at them that way at all. From my cultural background, I honestly couldn't
    have guessed from appearances alone that the 'faux-Chinese/Japanese' lettering
    was meant to evoke the appearance of Chinese or Japanese scripts.\r\n\r\nThe only
    reason I even knew that this sort of lettering style was meant to be used in contexts
    that had to do with East Asia was by association; I saw it often used in conjunction
    with kungfu and samurai themes, Chinese/Japanese restaurants, etc. It took some
    reflection to even come up with the notion that the lettering was mimicking the
    East Asian scripts; 'Hmm, the strange modulated curves <em>could</em> resemble
    the strokes of East Asian calligraphy to those who are not familiar with the scripts,'
    I thought, not entirely convinced of my own conclusion.\r\n\r\nThe thing is, there
    is some quite convincing faux-Japanese lettering out there, some of which at first
    glance might even fool me into thinking that I'm looking at some genuine Japanese
    kana. But none of the examples posted so far look really Chinese/Japanese to me.
    To my mind, this type of lettering really belongs to its own genre besides the
    more overtly faux-Japanese lettering style, which seems to have come in vogue
    more recently, possibly owing to anime culture."
  created: '2007-06-28 12:36:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> do you think they look at least vaguely Chinese/Japanese?\r\n\r\nIn fact
    to an outsider* they look <em>literally</em> oriental!\r\nIt's like when I was
    called a \"damn Iranian\" one time,\r\nand was surprised they couldn't tell the
    difference.\r\n\r\n* How do you say gai-jin in Korean?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-28 15:05:33'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I think cultural background has a lot to do with it Brian, it looks more
    to me like taking a stroke of a chinese painting of a section of bamboo and using
    that stroke to create letterforms, however, being repetitively informed that this
    is what latin characters would look like if rendered by a chinese calligrapher
    it has become a shorthand, that designers reinforce by using it for anything that
    vaguely references the Orient. I would imagine that many europeans were exposed
    to chinese script in the 18th century (and before) from the trade with Portugal,
    Holland and Britain in tea and pottery (and opium).\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-06-28 15:07:18'
- author:
    name: Typical
    picture: 112513
  body: "I have a copy of 17th c. book by a missionary in China whose drawings of
    what he saw included drawings of Chinese characters, many but not all of which
    are actually identifiable. Oh look, it's available on line now...\r\n\r\nhttp://shl.stanford.edu/Eyes/china/\r\n\r\nOk,
    it was worth downloading the djvu plugin. (This book even has a 'notes from the
    typographer' section). In the picture I am unable to insert, the characters at
    A, C, G, & I are 'drawn'; even our missionary's earnest efforts resemble the 'bamboo'
    fonts more than they resemble chinese writing. "
  created: '2007-06-28 16:07:51'
- author:
    name: Typical
    picture: 112513
  body: "Ok, here is the image\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kpic_3726.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    horizontal strokes in ACEGI should be much straighter, although at a slight angle,
    vertical lines in E, I should be very vertical. "
  created: '2007-06-28 16:10:50'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Jessica Helfland has a related article on Design Observer, called <a href="http://www.designobserver.com/archives/025809.html"><strong>Why
    Is This Font Different from All Other Fonts?</strong></a>
  created: '2007-06-28 19:49:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Speaking of Chinoiserie, that suggests a good font name should I decide to
    create a faux Chinese font (although Shinn being such a good Korean name, it would
    be faux Korean :-)\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nAs an aside, certainly in the 18th century
    the influx into Europe of Calico fabric and Porcelain goods brought with it oriental
    graphics, which interacted as the Baroque became Rococo. Nothing faux about Fournier,
    of course, but I suppose it's like all \"influence\" in type design -- done poorly
    it's crass plagiarism, done well, respectful homage."
  created: '2007-06-28 20:04:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What a load of bunk. Not only does Helfand imagine seeing the Hebrew script
    in a font that's decidedly nothing of the sort, but she spends too much energy
    condemning some playful Latin display fonts instead of worrying about the Latinization
    of Hebrew text. And Neuland was \"faux naif\"?! Complete ignorance about how Neuland
    was really made. And then there's the requisite Modernist codswallop about \"ethnic
    equivalence\", ohmmmmm. What a load of opportunistic, short-sighted crap that
    passes for critical thinking. Pisses me off.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-28 20:08:27'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I have a bunch of comments to make now but not much time. So I will limit
    myself to a single observation for now. The reason that this faux chinese style
    looks so faux to the insider is that it uses only one of the 8 classic stroke
    types used in Chinese. The one used for the down & left.  \r\n\r\nHere is a link
    to see it & the others if you are keen. \r\n\r\nhttp://www.chinavoc.com/arts/calligraphy/eightstroke.asp\r\n\r\nI
    have seen the stuff Jongseong is talking about & the reason it works so well (
    at hiding it's fauxness) is that \r\n\r\n - it uses all the stroke types/kinds\r\n
    - it uses Chinese rules ( or nearly) for assembling the letters into radicals
    with which to make up the finished glyph.  \r\n\r\nI will try to find a reference
    to it. It easier to see & understand than to read about & understand."
  created: '2007-06-28 23:07:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What about Fusaka?\r\n\r\nBTW, my Chinese calligraphy book says there are
    6 basic strokes.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-28 23:39:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Perhaps any type that looks \"brush drawn\" seems somewhat Oriental to Westerners.\r\n\r\nFor
    instance, Auriol, Hiroshige (of course), and perhaps flare-styles like Optima,
    Laudatio, and Beorcana.\r\n\r\nAuriol (c.1900), because of its Art Nouveau/Aesthetic
    era provenance, and the disconnected nature of the strokes, more so than the others."
  created: '2007-06-29 00:01:56'
- author:
    name: Typical
    picture: 112513
  body: "Here is a comparison of the characters drawn by the missionary with a modern
    font with brush-style appearance. You can get a good idea of how weak and floppy
    his drawings are. (Properly speaking, characters are written, not drawn.)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/comparebamboo2_6535.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nHrant,
    8 is a number I see more often. This is only relevant to brush method; components
    of the character are talked about in radicals, of which there are more than 300.\r\n\r\nOne
    of the biggest differences is that in Chinese calligraphy the brushes are very
    soft, so there is zero resistance as you are writing. But you do have to pay attention
    to how the brush tip flicks around. That's very different from using a calligraphic
    pen. This contributes to (but isn't the determining factor in) a very different
    esthetic. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-29 14:57:25'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Hrant : What is  Fusaka?\r\n\r\nRE: Strokes: Probably you go from 6 to eight
    by dividing off the strokes with a hook and the bend/twist stroke. Is that what's
    happening Hrant? Actually this kind of division is no more ( or less) useful than
    talking about Antiqua vs Geralde vs transitional. It isn't that the categories
    are without merit, it's that they can't do complete justice to the reality. \r\n\r\nBTW
    I can't quite support the idea of faux Chinese fonts being Chinoiserie. I don't
    think they contain enough intellectual room for all that baggage. They way they
    are used could make a piece Chinoiserie, or not. I admit this is a lot like my
    attitude about supposedly 'post modern' fonts which are also misnamed.\r\n\r\n<cite>
    Perhaps any type that looks \u201Cbrush drawn\u201D seems somewhat Oriental to
    Westerners. </cite>\r\n\r\nI think that's mostly correct.\r\n\r\nJongseong, how
    do you feel about the faux stuff? Does it offend you? I was going to relate how
    my Pal Jeff, who is a Chinese American feels but I am curious to hear from you.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-29 18:06:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://www.adobe.com/type/browser/P/P_1325.html _\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/fusaka/\r\n\r\nBTW,
    it's the only Morisawa winner that Adobe actually picked up.\r\nNot even Twombly's
    Mirarae had that privilege.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-29 18:33:02'
- author:
    name: Typical
    picture: 112513
  body: "\"BTW I can\u2019t quite support the idea of faux Chinese fonts being Chinoiserie.\"\r\n\r\nI
    mentioned Chinoiserie as a probably historical starting point for the emergence
    of faux Chinese roman letterforms. Sorry for not clarifying. Chinoiserie's importance
    goes beyond its role as an artistic movement; in Enlightenment Europe, especially
    England and France, the Chinese imperial system was taken to be highly advanced
    politically. Rousseau thought that China's system of government most closely represented
    rule by a philosopher king. This valuation of China then had its influence on
    artistic and then popular spheres. I wouldn't completely equate Chinoiserie with
    orientalism, as the latter has a stronger ideological edge. \r\n\r\nFusaka, according
    to its own description, follows Chinese not with imitated brushstrokes, but by
    making each letter fit into a square. The extra lines and dots are based on portions
    of characters, as are many of the letters. The aesthetic of Chinese characters
    requires each character to be balanced in the context of a square. (Chinese fonts
    are of course monospaced.) And then in calligraphy, demands for overall page color
    will influence interaction between characters, especially in the highly cursive
    'grassy' styles. In Fusaka the extra dots for example in the J and L make more
    sense in the context of a square.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-05 08:55:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Fusaka certainly makes a great deal more sense as you explain it now. Thanks!\r\n\r\nRe:
    Chinoiserie, again you make a great deal of sense there. What I should clarify
    is that I do not reject the idea that a links can be made. Instead I am maintaining
    (until I hear a convincing arguement to the contrary) that a font cannot contain
    or represent anything that complex in itself. That it might show the impact of
    such a thing is on the other hand a completely acceptable idea to me. My quibble
    was about the nature of a font rather than about Chinoiserie per se - which I
    still know far to little about!"
  created: '2007-07-05 09:29:35'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Ooh, the thread (along with Typophile) is back.\r\n\r\nTimd : <cite>it looks
    more to me like taking a stroke of a chinese painting of a section of bamboo and
    using that stroke to create letterforms</cite>\r\n\r\nThis explanation makes the
    most sense to me. Reminds me, too, of a Chinese bamboo painting (attributed to
    Guan Yu, I think) which is in fact a poem/message in disguise: the characters
    are formed by bamboo leaves. I saw a stele in the 'Stele Forest' in Xian, China
    that replicated this painting, and I took a photo of the rubbing (apologies for
    the blurry shot):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bamboopoem_6092.jpg]\r\n\r\nClever
    piece of art, but not what Chinese writing usually looks like.\r\n\r\nSo I guess
    this is a case of taking a design element unrelated to script from a culture.
    A comparable hypothetical example would be if one took the Greek maeander and
    based a Latin typeface design on it to evoke Greekness.\r\n\r\nWhen I say faux-Japanese,
    <a href=\"http://991.com/newGallery/Linkin-Park-In-The-End---Live-203058.jpg\">this</a>
    is closer to what I'm talking about--lettering that actually imitates Japanese
    scripts.\r\n\r\nThe canonical model for basic strokes in Chinese calligraphy is
    based on the character \u6C38. Depending on how you separate the strokes, you
    can get either eight or six, I think.\r\n\r\nEben: <cite>Jongseong, how do you
    feel about the faux stuff? Does it offend you? I was going to relate how my Pal
    Jeff, who is a Chinese American feels but I am curious to hear from you.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    take it you mean culturally offended and not, you know, because of bad kerning
    or whatever. When I see the bamboo-stroke-type faux-Chinese lettering, I just
    think it's a bit kitsch, but not really offensive. I simply don't know enough
    about it to find anything offensive. As I said, I'm barely familiar enough with
    it to know that it's supposed to evoke East Asian culture in the first place.\r\n\r\nFrom
    my Korean/international background, my take on Chinese/Japanese culture will be
    very different both from those approaching from a Western cultural background
    and from Chinese/Japanese backgrounds. I am also curious what a Chinese-American
    take on faux-Chinese lettering would be like. Do Chinese-Americans embrace this
    style, or reject it because of whatever reason?"
  created: '2007-07-05 13:08:33'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "From Sojin Kim & Somi Kim, \"Typecast: Meaning, Culture, and Identity in
    the Alphabet  Omelet,\" <em>Lift and Separate</em> (New York: 1993), 32. (Found
    mentioned in a comment attached to the <em>Design Observer</em> article linked
    above.):\r\n\r\n\"In 1867 one of the earliest pseudo-Japanese fonts was patented
    in America. This alphabet, known as <em>Mikita</em>, consists of three-dimensional
    letterforms suggestive of wood or lacquer work. Rather than actual mimicry of
    other alphabets, the first fonts that drew on the Far East in their letter structure
    were more reflective of concurrent art/design movements (artistic printing, the
    aesthetic, arts and crafts, international symbolist, art nouveau). [fn: N. Gray,
    <em>History of Lettering</em>, 175] Informal writing styles and brush scripts,
    particularly Chinese and Japanese, also began to affect character shapes. Around
    1885, a font called <em>Japanese</em> appeared in England, perhaps the first font
    to allude directly to Japanese or other East Asian culture through the design
    of letters that evoke the calligraphic brushstrokes of Asian writing. [fn: N.
    Gray, <em>19c Ornamented Typefaces</em>, 101, 220] Despite the visual integrity
    and ingenuity of many of these alphabets, Western letterers' mimicry of calligraphic
    strokes used by other writing traditions inevitably fails to refer correctly to
    the *ductus*, or order and direction of strokes, of the different traditions.\"\r\n\r\n(And
    in the second footnote: \"<em>Mikita</em> was produced by the type foundry D.
    & G. Bruce, New York, 1867, and offered as <em>Novel</em> by the English type
    foundries Austin Wood, c. 1868, and Figgins, c. 1883. A face called <em>Chinese</em>
    was offered in a supplement to the Bruce specimen book in 1879. <em>Japanese</em>
    was produced by the English type founder Sir Charles Reed, c. 1885.\")"
  created: '2007-07-06 23:40:41'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks Craig!\r\n\r\nNow if We can find some samples...."
  created: '2007-07-07 07:55:43'
date: '2007-06-26 09:26:43'
title: When does faux Chinese style lettering show up? 19th Century?

---
