---
author:
  name: luciel
body: "Hello,\r\n\r\nI'm new to this forum. I hope I'm posting in the correct category
  for this question.\r\n\r\nI'm designing a user interface for a touch screen application.
  The screens are in 2 colors (black and white) only. Because of this, I'm looking
  into using bitmap fonts, as vector fonts are not rendering well. My questions are:\r\n\r\n1.
  Where can I find good quality bitmap fonts? \r\n\r\n2. Does anyone know of any vector
  fonts that would render well on 2 color screens?\r\n\r\nThanks in advance for any
  information.\r\n\r\nLucie\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The solution you go for will depend on a few things, like:\r\nWhat OS are
    you running? Is the screen hi-res or lo-res?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-29 17:05:28'
- author:
    name: luciel
  body: "I'm running Windows XP Professional and using Illustrator and Photoshop CS2
    to create the graphics.\r\n\r\nThe size of the touch screen is 480 x 320 pixels.
    The application is developed and runs under Linux and uses a proprietary GUI,
    and does not use the X Windows System.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-29 19:06:57'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "The size of the screen actually doesn't tell us much. What's the resolution
    of the screen (dpi/ppi?)\r\nAnd what size do you need to use the type at?\r\n\r\nJason
    C"
  created: '2007-06-29 20:18:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, the resolution would be more helpful, but the pixel size does help -
    like now we know it's sort of small, which means the optimal point size (better:
    ppem) is smaller than otherwise, to fit more text. If you could tell us the physical
    size of the screen that would complete the picture so to speak.\r\n\r\nBut a bigger
    issue is that you're running a custom GUI, which means your font rendering software
    could be... what, Freetype? It sounds like you can actually use outline fonts,
    so you're not limited to \"true\" bitmap fonts (like in a BDF or FON format).\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand, you say you're using an XP machine and standard software to \"create
    the graphics\" - does that mean you're just making canned graphics which are copied
    to the touch-screen device, and the device doesn't really [need to] know what
    a font even is? If so, then all you need to do is use one of the MS \"core fonts\",
    like Verdana* and Georgia, but when you render them in Photoshop turn off anti-aliasing.
    These fonts are \"superhinted\": althought they're outline fonts which can render
    out in grayscale, they contain special instructions to make them render out very
    nicely in 1-bit.\r\n\r\n* Which sets very wide however.\r\n\r\nSorry if this seems
    more confusing than helpful - we'll figure it out eventually don't worry!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-29 20:41:57'
- author:
    name: luciel
  body: "Hello,\r\n\r\nThanks for taking the time to help out!\r\n\r\nThe physical
    size of the actual display screen is 80 x 120 cm.\r\n\r\nHere is some other technical
    info:\r\n\r\nModule size = 156.0 (H)mm x 94.9 (W)mm x MAX11.5 (D)mm\r\nDot size
    = 0.228 (H)mm x 0.228(W)mm\r\nDot Pitch = 0.24 (H)mm x 0.24 (W)mm\r\nNumber of
    Dots = 480 (H) x 320 (W)Dots\r\nDuty = 1/320\r\n\r\nIn Illustrator, I designed
    the text on the screens using 21 and 27 pt Myriad Pro Semibold. \r\n\r\nThe fonts
    are not created as part of the graphics, so the device needs to know what a font
    is. The text will change on the fly.\r\n\r\nThe developers are using libfreetype2
    to render the True Type fonts we are now using. This was working well when in
    color as we are not limited to the number of colors, but now that were doing a
    strictly b&w version (no grayscale) of the screens, the vector font we were using
    (Myriad Pro Semibold) does not render well. But, they can use another font rendering
    software if necessary or develop one.\r\n\r\nThe graphics are saved with the following
    specs:\r\n\r\nPNG-8\r\nNo Dither\r\n2 color (black and white)\r\nNo transparency\r\n\r\nI
    will ask the developers to try Georgia and Verdana, thanks for the suggestion.\r\n\r\nLucie"
  created: '2007-06-29 21:24:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So the resolution is about 111 dpi. Indeed that's not high enough to make
    \"dumb\" anti-aliasing crisp enough, especially when you factor in the small screen
    size, which will encourage closer viewing distances than a computer monitor. Something
    like Myriad counts as \"dumb\" when it comes to anti-aliasing at text sizes*.
    On the other hand, 27pt <em>should</em> be large enough... unless you're super-picky
    like me. :-)\r\n\r\n* Actually Apple had a special version of it made for\r\nthe
    iPod (or something) to make it come out crisper.\r\n\r\nComing around to b&w rendering,
    the thing is that if the Freetype engine can't handle superhinting, you can't
    really take advantage of the MS Core Fonts. If so, how easy would it be for you
    to license an engine that can?\r\n\r\nBut now I'm wondering: why did you give
    up on grayscaling? Only because the results you've been getting are poor? Because
    it doesn't have to be so:\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/manademo/\r\nAnd you
    don't need any special TT engine.\r\n\r\nNow, if you're totally set on b&w, but
    your TT engine doesn't handle superhinting (and you want to avoid changing engines*)
    then you could use what's called a pixelfont: a blocky outline font specially
    designed to render out crisp bitmaps at a single point size. In fact Mana is a
    pixelfont, but grayscale.\r\n\r\n* Insert Formula-1 joke here.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-29 22:53:27'
- author:
    name: luciel
  body: "Hello Hrant,\r\n\r\nWe tried with Verdana and Georgia. The results are not
    perfect (yes I'm super picky \r\ntoo!) but are much better than what we we're
    having with Myriad Pro Semibold. For the font engine, the developer tells me that
    it's possible to activate superhinting. But, if we do, we have to pay for the
    license to use it and change the code. We don't know what costs exactly would
    be involved with that, so that's on hold for now. (We use a lot of open source
    resources).\r\n\r\nRight now I'm waiting for the developers to integrate the text
    into the actual screens to see what it really looks like and do some more tests.\r\n\r\nI
    really like the Mana pixel font, however I can't use it because it's grayscale.\r\n\r\nThe
    reason we are doing strictly black and white is for technical reasons only. Apparently
    it takes much less power for the device to display a strictly black and white
    screen, and that's why this limitation is there unfortunately.\r\n \r\nI'm a bit
    confused about the file extensions of pixel fonts. They seem to be in .ttf or
    .fon format. For example, FFF Forward from http://www.fontsforflash.com/, in the
    Freebies section) is a .ttf file, but at the dafont.com Web site, they have pixel
    fonts in .fon and .ttf formats. Pixel fonts can be .ttf or .fon files?\r\n\r\nAlso,
    when I install these fonts and use them in Illustrator, I can change the size
    even though they are said to be a certain pixel size. Is Illustrator just changing
    the size on the fly? If so, how can I determine what the actual size looks like?\r\n\r\nThanks
    for your help,\r\n\r\nLucie\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-04 16:49:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK, we're narrowing this down nicely.  :-)\r\n\r\nThe MS \"core fonts\" were
    never intended to be used without superhinting enabled, so you will see quite
    a bit of clumping of pixels and missing pixels, especially at smaller sizes. They
    do have \"regular\" hinting which helps, and I assume your engine is handling
    those - otherwise the results would probably be way unacceptable. But even without
    superhinting available it's not surprising they render better than Myriad for
    you, since a coarse grid is implicit in their design.\r\n\r\nBasically if you're
    talking about an outline font that's designed to render very well without [super]hinting
    (which it can only do at one size) you're talking about a pixelfont. Typically
    pixelfonts are blocky*, \"literally\" mapping outlines to pixels. If you scale
    them to a size other than the intended one** you get tons of blur; the interesting
    thing in your case is that it's in b&w, so you don't get blur, but you will get
    very jumpy color and some distorted letterforms. As for seeing what the \"actual
    size\" of a bitmap font is: the bad news is that there's no way to be sure without
    being told what it is; but the good news is that it's usually 8 (a pseudo-standard
    in the pixelfont world), and if it's not you can figure it out by either trying
    some numbers, or looking at it in a font editor.\r\n\r\n* Although they don't
    have to be.\r\n\r\n** Unless you scale them to even multiples, like x2, in which
    case you basically get bitmap fonts with multi-pixel blocks.\r\n\r\nFont formats/extensions:
    TTF fonts are outline fonts, which is what pixelfonts are; FON fonts are \"traditional\"
    bitmap fonts, where the pixel patterns are stored as data (as opposed to being
    rendered by -sort of in spite of- a TT rendering engine). FON seems more intuitive,
    but its not well-supported. Because TT engines are very uniform, portable and
    robust, pixelfonts end up being a much better vehicle for rendering bitmap fonts.\r\n\r\nThere's
    a twist though: TT fonts can actually house embedded true bitmaps. These are rendered
    instead of the outlines when the right size is chosen. This is what I did for
    Arasan some years ago*. The advantage is that you have the scalable outlines in
    there, but you get \"perfect\" rendering at a given size (in fact multiple sizes,
    which you can't do with a single pixelfont) without the headache of superhinting.
    The disadvanatge is that some TT engines (like the one in OSX) will ignore the
    embedded bitmaps.\r\n\r\n* http://www.themicrofoundry.com/f_arasan.html\r\n\r\nSo
    it seems to me that, if you're not going to enable superhinting, you need to go
    with either a set of TT pixelfonts that cover the sizes you need, or go with a
    single TT font with embedded bitmaps. This latter you'd have to test to see if
    it works. I can send you Arasan to test if you like; even though you probably
    can't read Armenian :-) you'll see if the bitmaps are clean or not, or you could
    email me a screen grab and I'll tell you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-04 23:01:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "One other thing I just realized: as far as I know it's not legal\r\nto simply
    copy an MS core font to a third-party device/OS.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-04 23:12:53'
- author:
    name: luciel
  body: "Hello,\r\n\r\nYes I would like to test the Arasan font to see how it renders
    (even though I don't speak Armenian!) I'll send you a screen grab after if you
    like so you can see the results as well. If you like you can send the font at
    this address I've set up: fonttest@hotmail.com. \r\n\r\nHow can one know if a
    TT font houses embedded true bitmaps? Are they advertised as such, or do you just
    find out by trial and error?\r\n\r\nThanks again for all your help, it's greatly
    appreciated.\r\n\r\nLucie\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-05 17:13:44'
- author:
    name: Mikhail Leonov
  body: "Hi Lucie,\r\nyou can find out whether a TT font has embedded bitmaps by checking
    for existence of 'EBLC' table. One can dump font tables using TtfDump from http://www.microsoft.com/typography/tools/tools.aspx\r\n\r\nBut
    I think a more interesting question is whether a font has embedded bitmaps for
    the particular glyph/size combinations you care about. To do that, you can inspect
    the 'EBLC' table contents using the documentation from http://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/eblc.htm\r\n\r\nHope
    this helps, and best regards,\r\nMikhail Leonov\r\nWindows Text team\r\nMicrosoft"
  created: '2007-07-06 00:22:37'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Hrant is correct, you can't just copy Windows fonts across to your device.
    Making derivative bitmap fonts without permission is also problematic. For this
    reason we licensed our fonts to Ascender (www.ascendercorp.com) who can provide
    them to you, and make modifications as needed, under license.\r\n\r\n>* Actually
    Apple had a special version of it made for\r\nthe iPod (or something) to make
    it come out crisper.\r\n\r\nThat would be Podium Sans - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Podium_Sans
    - it's not exactly sharper, and it's not exactly Myriad either - don't beleive
    everything you read on Apple.com, especially if they change it a few weeks later.
    ;-) \r\n"
  created: '2007-07-06 05:01:15'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "<cite>The physical size of the actual display screen is 80 x 120 cm.\r\n\r\nHere
    is some other technical info:\r\n\r\nModule size = 156.0 (H)mm x 94.9 (W)mm x
    MAX11.5 (D)mm\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm confused. What does the larger set of dimensions
    refer to?"
  created: '2007-07-06 14:49:32'
- author:
    name: luciel
  body: "Mikhail,\r\n\r\nThank you for the info about how the ELBC table. It's a bit
    too technical for me (I'm just a graphic designer..!) but I'll pass it on to the
    developers.\r\n\r\nsii,\r\n\r\nThanks for the info about Podium Sans and the Ascender
    corporation, the services they offer look very interesting. \r\n\r\nelliot100,\r\n\r\nThe
    module size refers to the actual size of the physical device in which the screen
    is housed. \r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nAbout using a font in such a device, as I understand
    you are all saying that it's necessary to buy a license to legally use it in a
    commercial product. However, what we are building now is a prototype for a demo,
    not yet for sale, so in this case I would think it's ok to use the font without
    a licence, or am I mistaken? \r\n\r\nLucie"
  created: '2007-07-06 15:29:17'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Luciel, \r\n\r\n1. Is your FreeType library compiled with native (patented)
    TrueType hinting enabled? \r\n\r\n2. Did you try Myriad Web Pro (available from
    Adobe) or Frutiger XSF (available from Linotype)? I would also recommend taking
    a look at Officina Sans in the version sold by ParaType. Their TrueType versions
    all work very well on screen and are hinted (screen-optimized). \r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2007-07-06 16:47:53'
- author:
    name: luciel
  body: "Hello Adam,\r\n\r\nOur library is not compiled using native TrueType hinting.
    We can do it, but we'd have to pay for the license and change the code in order
    to activate it, and for the moment that's not possible, so that's on hold. \r\n\r\nI
    have a sneaky feeling that Myriad Web Pro will give the same results as the MS
    Core fonts, which are optimized for screen viewing as well, but I will give it
    a try. Actually, I didn't realize that Adobe had WebType fonts, so as I have the
    Adobe OTF library I can test them out.\r\n\r\nThanks for the info about XSF fonts.
    As I understand it, they are optimized for computer screens that use Windows.
    As our development is Linux based, I wonder if these will be any good for us?
    \r\n\r\nI like the Officina Sans font, but I have the Adobe OpenType version only
    though, not the Paratype version. \r\n\r\n(As the end-result is strictly pixelized
    black and white (no anti-aliasing) it's impossible to tell if a font will render
    well without actually testing it on the device; just looking at it on a regular
    computer screen doesn't give true results).\r\n\r\nThanks for your suggestions.\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-06 19:52:38'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Luciel, \r\n\r\nLinotype XSF, Monotype ESQ, Adobe WebType and ParaType superhinted
    fonts are all optimized with the native TrueType hinting in mind. If you don't
    use the native TrueType hinting but use the FreeType autohinter, you may get reasonable
    results when using a font that has been optimized for ClearType display, such
    as Calibri or Corbel from the Microsoft ClearType collection (http://www.ascendercorp.com/ctfonts.html
    ) or Ascender Mayberry (http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/ascender/mayberry/ ). The
    Segoe UI font, which is the default UI font on Windows Vista, might also work
    well. \r\n\r\nHowever, I very much doubt that you'll be able to achieve really
    good results when using purely black-and-white display with the native TrueType
    hinting OFF. FreeType autohinting really works well only with antialiasing --
    for aliased type, you pretty much need native hinting. \r\n\r\nWell, actually,
    there is probably a way that would allow you to produce very good results under
    the circumstances you describe, but it would involve custom font development and
    some trickery. You may contact me offlist if you're interested at adam at twardoch
    dot com. \r\n\r\nBest, \r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-07 00:52:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> don\u2019t beleive everything you read on Apple.com,\r\n> especially if
    they change it a few weeks later. \r\n\r\nAh.  :-)\r\n\r\n> The module size refers
    to the actual size of the\r\n> physical device in which the screen is housed.\r\n\r\nOh,
    so the screen itself must be a bit smaller - the dpi higher.\r\n\r\n> in this
    case I would think it\u2019s ok to use the\r\n> font without a licence, or am
    I mistaken?\r\n\r\nIt depens on how you define \"ok\"...  :-)\r\nActually, MS
    is not known to hunt people down for stuff like this. On the other hand, since
    you probably won't risk including an MS core font in the final product, you should
    seriously avoid relying on one too much during development.\r\n\r\n> you may get
    reasonable results when using a font\r\n> that has been optimized for ClearType
    display\r\n\r\nBut of course those have the same legal restriction we mentioned
    - and probably more likely to be watched closely by MS... Myriad-Web doesn't have
    this problem. But I doubt it looks as good (I mean even with regular hinting on,
    but no superhinting).\r\n\r\n> there is probably a way that would allow you to
    produce\r\n> very good results under the circumstances you describe\r\n\r\nEffectively,
    a pixelfont. Maybe not blocky, but still size-specific.\r\nUnless embedded bitmaps
    are supported in FreeType, which to\r\nme would be the ideal path.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-07 01:17:00'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Lucie, \r\n\r\nThe terminology is: .fon are bitmap fonts, .ttf with \"blocky\"
    appearance are pixelfonts. And then, you have other types of outline (.ttf) fonts
    that I would call \"screen-tuned\", which lend themselves towards screen display.
    They may do so by using different techniques, but the most typical one is to adapt
    the outline shape so that the final pixel patterns are best. \r\n\r\nThe adapted
    outline shape can be inherent to the design to produce reasonably good results
    across many sizes (as in case of the Microsoft ClearType collection fonts), or
    they may be tweaked so that one particular size appears particularly well. In
    addition, they may employ delta hinting (native TrueType hinting) to adapt/distort
    the outline even further, depending on the size, to cover a broader range of sizes.
    \r\n\r\nIf you are worried about compiling FreeType with native TrueType hinting
    enabled, you should be worried twice as much about the prospect of including unlicensed
    fonts in the device. From what you've been writing, I think you expect to get
    the font \"for free\", i.e. that it could be bundled with the display device free
    of charge. \r\n\r\nI don't think you'll have much luck with it. Just like your
    work costs money, the development of screen fonts also does. Pretty much all of
    the fonts that were mentioned here, made by Microsoft, Adobe, Apple or ParaType,
    come with licensing agreements that don't allow their free distribution across
    other devices. You (or the device vendor, actually) would need to purchase a license
    to cover the bundling on the device. \r\n\r\nAn aliternative might be to commission
    a design of a new font that would suit your needs, and obtain all rights to it.
    \r\n\r\nBut none of these will come for free, I believe. Especially if you want
    high quality. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-07 16:05:41'
- author:
    name: luciel
  body: "Hi all,\r\n\r\nI'm amazed at the high quality and amount of information I'm
    receiving, thanks a lot for taking the time to contribute, it's been very helpful
    and enlightening! \r\n\r\nMy intention is not to try and use a font for \"free\".
    I'm aware there is a lot of work involved in developing a font, and wouldn't dismiss
    this work by using a commercial font for free. For the moment, I'm just trying
    to figure out the best type of font to use that will give good results. \r\n\r\nAbout
    the size of the screen as compared to the device: the screen is 80 x 120 mm, not
    cm as I had mentioned previously.\r\n\r\nLucie\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-09 15:17:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Minor: I don't know how I was doing the math before, but apparently your
    screen is just over 100dpi. Factoring in the viewing distance issue, the effective
    apparent resolution seems to be comparable to an entry-level computer system.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-09 16:09:17'
date: '2007-06-29 16:46:00'
title: Looking for information on raster/bitmap fonts

---
