---
author:
  name: gtrianta
  picture: 111263
body: "The \"greek alphabet\" exhibition has taken place with success during the seven
  days of the 3rd International Conference on Typography and Visual Communication
  in Thessaloniki between the 18th and the 23rd of June.\r\n\r\nVisit <a href=\"http://ea.backpacker.gr\">http://ea.backpacker.gr</a>
  to see a small sample of each submission, photos from the exhibition venue and the
  two selected submissions.\r\n\r\nI would like to thank once more everyone who helped
  organize and run the event and everyone who participated."
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks George! I wish I could have been there to see the conference and the
    exhibit.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-04 12:24:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nice stuff!\r\nI like the ones by Albertoni and Hornus the most.\r\n\r\nTwo
    things:\r\n1) Would you say that Greek \"natives\"\r\nare less interested in making
    text fonts?\r\n2) Why were the new MS fonts not included\r\namong the \"out of
    competition\" selections?\r\n\r\nBTW, when Michail Semoglou's text is\r\npublished
    in English please let us know!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-04 15:33:04'
- author:
    name: gtrianta
    picture: 111263
  body: "1) I don't think it's due to a lack of interest but a lack of formal training.\r\n2)
    The MS - out of competition typefaces that were left out are the well-known Candara,
    Cambria, Calibri, Constantia, Corbel and Segoe. I have just added the not so well-known
    ones, namely Segoe Script and Segoe Print (MS), Convection (MS) and New Johnston
    (Monotype Imaging).\r\n\r\nI will inform you when Michail's text is translated.\r\nThank
    you for the comments and remarks.\r\n\r\nGeorge Triantafyllakos - backpacker.gr"
  created: '2007-07-04 17:22:27'
- author:
    name: gtrianta
    picture: 111263
  body: "Also, allow me to say that, besides Alice Savoie's work, the most appreciated
    submissions were the ones of Veronica Burian and Jeremie Hornus. And, in the end
    it was a close call between Alice and Veronica.\r\n\r\nSo, congratulations to
    Veronica and Jeremie as well :-)\r\n\r\nGeorge Triantafyllakos - backpacker.gr"
  created: '2007-07-04 17:31:15'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "George, glad to see this go live and happy we were able to participate. \r\n\r\nAs
    for Greek native speakers and text faces, I suppose this is no different than
    elsewhere, where display fonts are more popular. Added to this, any serious text
    Greek face would need to have Latin, making it even more work. Maybe."
  created: '2007-07-04 18:18:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Oh, and you should fix the typo on Erik''s name before he notices. ;-) '
  created: '2007-07-04 18:18:59'
- author:
    name: gtrianta
    picture: 111263
  body: "Oops :-/\r\nThanks for that ...\r\n\r\nGeorge Triantafyllakos - backpacker.gr"
  created: '2007-07-04 18:30:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> any serious text Greek face would need to have Latin\r\n\r\nIt depends
    on how you define \"serious\"...\r\n\r\nPlus when you think about how Latin and
    Greek typically need to harmonize, all you might need to do is match the color
    (and maybe the apparent size) of some existing Latin text face and you'd pretty
    much be there without the effort of making your own Latin.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-04 19:15:26'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: I watch -a lot- of Greek tv because my boyfriends parents don't speak english
    (any Spiro Papadopoulo fans in the house?!) and there are a lot of latin characters
    used - especially in news programs. I think there should probably be matching
    latin characters in a font meant for high use.
  created: '2007-07-04 20:12:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Certainly Latin is the lingua franca of writing systems*, and it's useful
    to support it as much as possible. But the extent to which non-Latin fonts are
    made to \"harmonize\" with (more like \"enslaved to\") Latin is uncalled for,
    and in fact generally dysfunctional. When we think of \"matching\", let's not
    mean a full replication of formal features, like stroke terminals, vertical proportions,
    etc. Let's instead start from a lucid evaluation of how readers actually use multi-script
    documents, and try to see which letterform macro and micro features actually help
    foster a real, deep harmony, and which in fact consititute a formulaic, shallow,
    rote transplantation.\r\n\r\n* Until Chinese takes over...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-04 20:30:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "However, if you really want to do it right, and effort is no obstacle,\r\nyou
    make a multilateral system: a master font in each script, each\r\nwith a subordinate
    font in the other script.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_rome2.html\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-04 20:33:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "It's a pity the submissions didn't have to include a lowercase delta. In
    my experience, that is the most difficult Greek letter to get right.\r\n\r\n[George,
    I submitted a new design using the online submission form, but I presume you never
    got it, since it didn't show up in the exhibition.]"
  created: '2007-07-05 00:29:33'
- author:
    name: gtrianta
    picture: 111263
  body: "I am sorry about that. Gerry Leonidas told me about that during the conference
    and I told him that I never received it. My apologies.\r\n\r\nGeorge Triantafyllakos
    - backpacker.gr"
  created: '2007-07-05 01:58:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I see that I mistakenly sent the entry with the wrong gamma, I had made a
    better one but oh, well.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-05 02:29:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, maybe they didn't want to make submitting something <em>too</em> hard?\r\nShame
    about your entry though. Hey, what about posting it here?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-05 02:50:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I'm doing some revisions to the spacing at the moment, but yes, I'll make
    a PDF available when I'm done. The font will be available free for non-commercial
    use from the Society of Biblical Literature Font Foundation.
  created: '2007-07-05 05:32:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Shame the organization isn't the Biblical Literature Unicode Font Foundation,
    as the conspiracy theorists would love that. ;-)
  created: '2007-07-05 14:40:42'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I would have loved to have been there. If anything it would have alleviated
    the Greek withdrawal symptoms; I've not seen printed Greek in forever, with most
    of my Greece-related stuff gathering dust at my parents' place in China...\r\n\r\nJohn,
    I can't find it now, but I remember seeing a sample of an early version of your
    SBL Greek somewhere, and it was really beautiful. I'm certainly looking forward
    to the release. You can probably find traces of some of its features in my own
    attempt at Greek, <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/34520\">Naxia</a>, still
    in its earliest stages. (The influence is clearer in the italic, though you'll
    have to take my word for it as it is not quite ready to be presented yet...)\r\n\r\nI
    too am disappointed in the shortage of entries by Greek designers, especially
    in the text face category. Still, I expect good things to come out of the infusion
    of new ideas by the latest generation of Greek type designers studying abroad.
    I also hope that it becomes easier to get formal training for type design in Greece
    so that budding type designers are not all forced to go abroad to learn their
    trade.\r\n\r\nHrant: <cite>* Until Chinese takes over [as the lingua franca of
    writing systems]...</cite>\r\n\r\nThat would be a dark, bleak future, not least
    for type designers."
  created: '2007-07-06 09:24:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Dark, bleak? Only for those in power now. Not the people I personally\r\ncare
    for. Because they're making the rest of the world dark, bleak.\r\nAs for the Latin
    script: boooooring. Korean for one is so much better.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-06 15:19:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">As for the Latin script: boooooring. \r\n\r\nI'd agree the only thing worse
    than everyone using Simplified Chinese would be everyone using English. \r\n\r\nHowever
    I think the future looks brighter for minority writing systems thanks to the work
    of people like SIL, and dare I say it my company. You can't force people not to
    use English, but give them high-quality tools to create and consume content in
    their native language out-of-the-box and at least they have that option*.\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si\r\n\r\n*assuming they have power, an internet connection, or an OLPC ;-) \r\n"
  created: '2007-07-06 15:50:12'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "So we go off topic...\r\n\r\nRemember we're talking about scripts, not languages.
    The Chinese script is only workable for Sinitic languages. At least the boring
    Latin script, being alphabetic, can readily serve a wide variety of languages.
    That is one reason for its wide-spread use long after Latin ceased to be spoken
    widely.\r\n\r\nBefore the Korean alphabet was invented, being literate in Korea
    meant having to learn a whole different language, i.e. Classical Chinese. The
    literate elite were secure in their monopoly of knowledge and control of society
    due to the many years of schooling necessary to learn Classical Chinese. There
    is no way to readily adapt the Chinese ideographs to writing any other language.
    If the Chinese script becomes the lingua franca, it can only mean that the Chinese
    language itself has become the global tongue.\r\n\r\nAt least with the current
    dominance of the Latin script, the individual languages are not threatened. On
    the contrary, we have examples like the Latinization campaigns in the Soviet Union
    that were aimed at improving the status of minority languages though the introduction
    of the Latin script to write them down.\r\n\r\nI am all for language and script
    diversity. A Latin-dominated landscape does not preclude language diversity, but
    a Chinese-script-dominated one does. That's why I call such a future dark and
    bleak. All this is not to mention the problem the Chinese have with their own
    script with the thousands of characters. I'm sorry, but preferring a future dominated
    by the Chinese script to the status quo is hopelessly na\xEFve."
  created: '2007-07-06 17:37:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The Chinese script is only workable for Sinitic languages.\r\n\r\nJust
    like I don't think literal Latinization is good, I wouldn't want to see Chinese
    have an explicit influence on any other script. But it does have under-appreciated
    and under-used merits that can serve as superb inspiration. One of them is that
    it's not an alphabet!\r\n\r\n> If the Chinese script becomes the lingua franca,
    it can only mean\r\n> that the Chinese language itself has become the global tongue.\r\n\r\nWhich
    it will be. And I see nothing wrong with that (as long as a lingua franca is inevitable).
    But more importantly, I don't agree with your blindered view. Humans are much
    more creative than that. In fact AFAIK there are Chinese-derived systems for encoding
    non-Chinese languages out there already.\r\n\r\nI have to start thinking that
    you have a personal thing against China.\r\n\r\n> the problem the Chinese have
    with their\r\n> own script with the thousands of characters.\r\n\r\nEvery system
    has problems. And quite clearly the \"problem\" with\r\nChinese isn't great enough
    to prevent them from taking over...\r\n\r\n> preferring a future dominated by
    the Chinese\r\n> script to the status quo is hopelessly na\xEFve.\r\n\r\nI believe
    in cycles. The current one is sick and dying.\r\nAs I've written before: one day
    we will have to get rid of China too.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-06 23:04:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I remember when everyone assumed that Japan was going to run the world, that
    their economy would outstrip the US, and that Japanese would be the lingua franca,
    so I'm not about to run out and learn Mandarin.
  created: '2007-07-07 00:10:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I\u2019m not about to run out and learn Mandarin.\r\n\r\nNo, for us it's
    too late/early.\r\nBut if/when you have kids make sure they learn it real quick
    like.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-07 00:27:32'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Hrant: <cite>In fact AFAIK there are Chinese-derived systems for encoding
    non-Chinese languages out there already.</cite>\r\n\r\nDo you have any examples?
    Unless you're talking about Vietnamese or even the Japanese hiragana and katakana
    scripts, which ultimately derive from the Chinese script, I would be really curious...\r\n\r\nI'm
    not really sure you've thought through the global tongue scenario, if you see
    nothing wrong with that. English may be considered the global tongue now, but
    Chinese would have to have a stranglehold on the global population at a level
    that far surpasses that for the Chinese script to be the global script as well.
    Since we're assuming that the Latin script to fall off its pedestal, the billions
    of current English, Portuguese, and Spanish speakers would have to stop writing
    their native languages and switch to Chinese. Or are you saying that they can
    somehow find a way to use the Chinese script to write their own vernacular tongues?\r\n\r\nThe
    Chinese script has been dominant in East Asia for millennia; it is part of the
    cultures of Korea and Japan as well as China's. But it has proved restrictive
    to the use of vernacular languages in writing, which is why Korean and Japanese
    both developed their own scripts (in the former case, to the enormous protest
    of the literati who liked their monopoly on literacy). If there was any way the
    Chinese script could be used to write Korean or Japanese other than through impractical
    rebus-based systems, it would have been found sometime during the thousands of
    years of Chinese-script supremacy. When Chinese characters are used for writing
    Korean or Japanese, it is for writing Chinese loanwords, of which there are many.
    Extrapolating to languages that have had less contact with Chinese, I can't see
    how its speakers would start using the Chinese script other than by abandoning
    their vernacular tongues.\r\n\r\nAll this just to spite the current dominance
    of the Latin script? The Chinese script as lingua franca has been tried in the
    East Asian sphere and found wanting. Apologies if the future talk sounds like
    regression rather than progress to me."
  created: '2007-07-07 01:55:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So why are Japanese and N\xF4m not good examples?\r\n\r\nBTW Brian, I'm not
    taking about the next few years, probably not even\r\nthe next few decades. Your
    \"can't happen\" simply doesn't jibe with what\r\nhumanity has done since day
    one.\r\n\r\n> All this just to spite the current dominance of the Latin script?\r\n\r\nSure,
    whatever it takes to make things less imbalanced.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-07 02:02:49'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Ch\u1EEF n\xF4m is a good example of the Chinese script adapted to a non-Chinese
    language, along with Zhuang logograms. Hiragana and katakana derive their forms
    from Chinese characters, but have passed into an entire different genre of writing
    system, the syllabary. No one considers them Chinese scripts any more than the
    Greek alphabet is considered a Semitic abjad.\r\n\r\nThe difference is that Vietnamese
    and Zhuang, being analytic languages with largely monosyllabic morphemes like
    Chinese, are more suited to a logographic writing system than the agglutinative
    Japanese. (As an aside, I think the current practice of using a Latin-based writing
    system for Vietnamese is rather unwieldy.) Syllabic writing systems, as it turns
    out, are effective for writing Japanese. The Chinese script simply served as a
    reference point because that was the only 'true' writing they really knew about.\r\n\r\nKorean,
    on the other hand, has thousands of syllables in use and didn't find a workable
    solution until the featural alphabet Hangul was developed.\r\n\r\nThe moral is
    that each language has different needs that require different script solutions,
    and a Chinese-style logographic system may very well be the most restrictive and
    least adaptable one out there, suitable only for a handful of languages in China
    and Southeast Asia. In fact, the reverence for tradition and resistance to innovation
    in the world of written Chinese probably contributed to its survival to this age
    when other logographic systems around the world have been rendered obsolete by
    phonetic writing.\r\n\r\nIf anything, if I trust human creativity, I think the
    Chinese script will move further and further away from its logographic origins
    to reflect the changes in the Chinese language away from analytic features."
  created: '2007-07-07 03:07:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I think the current practice of using a Latin-based\r\n> writing system
    for Vietnamese is rather unwieldy.\r\n\r\nThat's quite an understatement.\r\nBTW,
    personally I don't think Latin works well for <em>English</em>.\r\n\r\n> a Chinese-style
    logographic system may very well\r\n> be the most restrictive and least adaptable\r\n\r\nIt's
    not so simple. In fact, the unifying* spirit of Chinese (it deftly encodes the
    numerous languages of China) is exactly what an alphabet sucks at. Alphabets are
    seriously over-rated, to mythical proportions; and seeing a non-westerner fall
    for it is frankly quite sad.\r\n\r\n* Think <em>world</em> here.\r\n\r\n> The
    moral is that each language has different needs\r\n\r\nAmen.\r\n\r\n> I think
    the Chinese script will move further\r\n> and further away from its logographic
    origins\r\n\r\nSure, but it will still be Chinese.\r\nA script is never really
    a static, formal thing - not even for an instant.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-07 03:40:46'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Hrant: <cite>It\u2019s not so simple. In fact, the unifying* spirit of Chinese
    (it deftly encodes the numerous languages of China) is exactly what an alphabet
    sucks at.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's not so simple either, as it is a result of a standardized
    literary language and spoken languages developing in tandem, and one has to ignore
    a large degree of diglossia, but let's leave it at that. \r\n\r\nIf making cognates
    recognizable is the goal, alphabets work just fine. Many European languages that
    use the Latin script use near-identical spellings for Greek and Latinate vocabulary,
    when the pronunciations are quite different. French in particular uses a lot of
    phantom letters in their spelling to reflect etymological origins (e.g. the <em>g</em>
    in 'doi<em>g</em>t', cognate to 'digit'). I'd be hard pressed to make out a single
    word when someone is speaking Danish, but I understand a fair bit of written Danish
    because of its closeness to Norwegian.\r\n\r\nBut a true unifier would be something
    like bringing back Latin as the universal literary language in Europe, or Sanskrit
    in Northern India. Pretending that one can introduce a single unifying script
    for the different languages of Europe \xE0 la Chinese without enforcing a unifying
    language ignores the far greater diversity in grammatical structures and vocabulary
    between even the closely related Romance languages. Chinese was helped by strong
    central government starting with the First Emperor, who standardized writing across
    China; maybe European political unity can enforce a standardized pan-European
    literary language?\r\n\r\nHrant: <cite>Alphabets are seriously over-rated, to
    mythical proportions; and to see a non-westerner fall for it is frankly quite
    sad.</cite>\r\n\r\nI reiterate, different languages require different script solutions.
    I am not advocating alphabets as the one-size-fits-all solution. Many nationalistic
    Koreans talk about the supremacy of the Korean alphabet and even exporting it
    for writing other languages, so I'm wary of that view.\r\n\r\nBut I think it's
    perfectly clear that the majority of the world's languages simply cannot be written
    with a manageable logographic system the way Chinese can be. Just how would one
    distinguish between the dozen different ways of describing 'yellow' in Korean,
    each with a different nuance, in such a system?\r\n\r\n\uB178\uB797\uB2E4, \uB178\uB974\uAED8\uD558\uB2E4,
    \uB178\uB974\uB044\uB808\uD558\uB2E4, \uB178\uB974\uBB34\uB808\uD558\uB2E4, \uB178\uB974\uC2A4\uB984\uD558\uB2E4,
    \uB178\uB987\uD558\uB2E4, \uB178\uB987\uB178\uB987\uD558\uB2E4, \uB178\uB974\uD1A1\uD1A1\uD558\uB2E4,
    \uB178\uB9AC\uAED8\uD558\uB2E4, \uB178\uB9AC\uB044\uB808\uD558\uB2E4, \uB178\uB9AC\uBB34\uB808\uD558\uB2E4,
    \uB178\uB9BF\uD558\uB2E4, \uB178\uB9BF\uB178\uB9BF\uD558\uB2E4, \uB178\uB9AC\uD1A1\uD1A1\uD558\uB2E4,
    \uB204\uB807\uB2E4, \uB204\uB9AC\uAED8\uD558\uB2E4, \uB204\uB974\uB044\uB808\uD558\uB2E4,
    \uB204\uB974\uBB34\uB808\uD558\uB2E4, \uB204\uB974\uC2A4\uB984\uD558\uB2E4, \uB204\uB987\uD558\uB2E4,
    \uB204\uB987\uB204\uB987\uD558\uB2E4, \uB204\uB974\uD22D\uD22D\uD558\uB2E4, \uB204\uB974\uCE59\uCE59\uD558\uB2E4,
    \uC0DB\uB178\uB797\uB2E4, \uC2EF\uB204\uB807\uB2E4.\r\n\r\nI would rather not
    lose that diversity."
  created: '2007-07-07 04:24:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Chinese was helped by strong central government\r\n\r\nDon't get me started!\r\n\r\n>
    Many nationalistic Koreans talk about\r\n> the supremacy of the Korean alphabet\r\n\r\nJust
    because they're nationalistic doesn't mean they're wrong about every single thing.
    In fact the Korean script (which is not really an alphabet) <em>is</em> superior
    to every other one, at least in ways that count most. It makes Latin look like
    a village idiot. Does that mean Hangul can be used to encode every language ideally?
    Of course not. Does that mean it can't be improved? Of course it can. But it's
    still better than what most people have. The problem is that misplaced pride makes
    people -like that grade-A bigot Morison- adore alphabets, Latin, or whatever else
    is perceived as having helped them claw their way to the top of the pyramid.\r\n\r\n>
    But I think it\u2019s perfectly clear that the majority of the world\u2019s\r\n>
    languages simply cannot be written with a manageable\r\n> logographic system the
    way Chinese can be.\r\n\r\nI don't think such a thing is perfectly clear at all.\r\n\r\nYou
    want diversity? Step 1: Stop Latin.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-07 04:56:07'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: Hrant, do you think English can be written with a logographic system of, say,
    less than 3000 graphemes? I'm trying to understand where you get this idea that
    such solutions are possible, let alone desirable.
  created: '2007-07-07 05:40:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Do you think the Chinese can't read Chinese?\r\nOr do you think that English
    readers are dumber?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-07 06:01:58'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I'm confused; where did that come from? My question was whether you thought
    a logographic system was suitable for the English language. English and Chinese
    are very different languages.\r\n\r\nIf, as I contend, English cannot be adequately
    encoded with logograms, it is because of features inherent in the language like
    the grammatical structure (although English is becoming less inflective and more
    analytic) and multiple registers of vocabulary, not because English readers are
    dumb."
  created: '2007-07-07 06:13:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think you're looking at writing systems too\r\nrigidly; and you're too
    worried about English.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-07 06:27:29'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: I'm merely using English, a language you and I both know, as an example to
    gauge your opinion on the workability of logographic systems. The Latin script
    might not be the best suited for English, but it works, at least. Will a logographic
    system do? I'm not talking about English readers learning Chinese and writing
    Chinese scripts, but writing the English language in a logographic writing system.
  created: '2007-07-07 06:34:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sure it can work. Look at Tibetan: the writing system -as supernaturally\r\nbeautiful
    as it is- is in fact a horrible match to the language, but are they\r\nusing it
    to run their nation or not? Would writing English logographically\r\nbe worse
    than writing it with half as many graphemes as it actually needs?\r\nMaybe, but
    maybe not. In any case, to me it's not <em>\"perfectly clear\"</em> at all.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    I never claimed Chinese is some sort of ideal writing system.\r\nWhat I claimed
    is that it's ascending. The rest is all merely a protracted\r\nreaction against
    your alarmist \"That would be a dark, bleak future, not\r\nleast for type designers.\"
    It sounds like a White House press release.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-07 07:22:00'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "So you think writing English logographically <em>is possible</em>, and moreover
    it's unclear whether that would be better or worse than the current method. That's
    what I wanted to know. Based on what I know about the English language and logographic
    writing systems, I thought it was obvious that it is impossible to reflect the
    English language in a logographic way without resorting to all kinds of non-intuitive
    markers that only Chomskyites would grasp (but then it would cease to be logographic
    and become unlike any writing system). Because my own reasoning behind this conclusion
    seemed so natural and obvious to me, I thought it was clear for everyone else,
    too, but there I was wrong.\r\n\r\nSo maybe you thought that Chinese could replace
    English as the lingua franca (plausible), and because of that influence other
    languages would start to be written in the Chinese script. That last part is the
    impossible leap for me.\r\n\r\nFor me, the only scenario where the Chinese <em>script</em>
    becomes the lingua franca is where people largely stop writing in non-Chinese
    languages altogether, using only Chinese for written communication. This far surpasses
    what any language up to now has done, including English. That sort of scenario
    where most literature (and any sort of writing) is produced in a single language
    seems dark and bleak to me. Do you think this will actually happen?\r\n\r\nI believe
    in the Chinese ascendancy. More and more people will learn Chinese as a foreign
    language, as people are doing in droves in Korea. My father already speaks fluent
    Chinese, and I'm still learning. Soon the rest of the world will catch up. But
    please, believing that China will achieve the sort of cultural hegemony to drive
    out languages like English, Hindi, and Arabic from written use seems far-fetched.
    That's why I made that initial postscript comment about the \"dark, bleak future\"
    jocularly, thinking that you were being similarly mock alarmist with your Chinese-script-as-the-lingua-franca
    suggestion.\r\n\r\nSo we were not on the same page after all, and I guess to you
    I came across as a reactionary against Chinese ascendancy. I don't think I've
    been accused of sounding like a White House press release before."
  created: '2007-07-07 08:26:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hrant, do you understand Brian's point that languages that conjugate can't
    be naturally represented in Chinese characters? It is perfectly sound.\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, latin script has conquered China. Pin Yin, the romanization of Chinese
    is used to input Chinese on keyboards, so all young Chinese know the roman alphabet.
    It is also on road signs. The ease of keyboarding is a decisive advantage of alphabets.
    \r\n\r\nThe whole structure of Chinese lends itself to the characters, and not
    only because it was the key to a unified empire--so that a unified China is ancient,
    whereas a unified Europe is still an aspiration.  "
  created: '2007-07-07 13:25:31'
- author:
    name: inde
    picture: 112647
  body: "Too bad i missed it. \r\n\r\nKrima pou to exasa, kalo omos na vrisko kapion
    ellhna me endiaferon sta fonts."
  created: '2007-07-07 14:30:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> So maybe you thought that Chinese could replace English as the lingua\r\n>
    franca (plausible), and because of that influence other languages would\r\n> start
    to be written in the Chinese script.\r\n\r\nThe former seems quite likely to me
    (because paradoxically it's the westerner's conditioning to live materialistically
    that makes it so easy to purchase his loyalty). The latter is also likely, but
    in a much more limited scope. In the latter, more likely/widespread, and much
    more interesting (but yes, dangerous) is the way Chinese will change other writing
    systems, as Latin has been doing for so long.\r\n\r\n> people largely stop writing
    in non-Chinese languages\r\n> altogether, using only Chinese for written communication.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not seeing that.\r\n\r\n> This far surpasses what any language\r\n> up to now
    has done, including English.\r\n\r\nNot really. The Romanization (not \"language\",
    script) of the planet is quite pronounced. Just look at Africa, Turkey, some Balkan
    countries, and even some south-east Asian countries.\r\n\r\n> believing that China
    will achieve the sort of cultural hegemony to\r\n> drive out languages like English,
    Hindi, and Arabic from written\r\n> use seems far-fetched.\r\n\r\nWhy has my use
    of \"lingua franca\" cause such an extreme interpretation?\r\n\r\n> I don\u2019t
    think I\u2019ve been accused of sounding\r\n> like a White House press release
    before.\r\n\r\nAnd I've never been accused of demoting diversity before.\r\n\r\n>
    all young Chinese know the roman alphabet.\r\n\r\nSoon enough all young Westerners
    will know Chinese, and Mandarin. This has already started in Africa and South
    America. What's funny is, you set yourself up for it by making Capitalism your
    religion. You're available for sale to the highest bidder. The <em>Newest</em>
    Profession?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-07 15:09:27'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Hrant, are you remembering to distinguish between language and script? The
    dominance of the Latin script and English as a de facto lingua franca are two
    separate issues.\r\n\r\nI call the Latin script dominant not because it has the
    greatest number of users (the number of users of the Chinese script may already
    be greater, I don't know), but because it has been adopted by scores of different
    languages from different language families, including English. The influence of
    languages written in the Latin script, such as English, certainly played a great
    role, but the main thing was that the Latin script, being a phonetic system, proved
    supremely adaptable.\r\n\r\nSuch adoptions of scripts are perhaps doomed to be
    less than optimal most of the time. Latin might not be the optimal solution for
    Vietnamese, nor the Indic-based Tibetan script (note: another phonetic script)
    for the Tibetan. But they still produced solutions that worked well enough to
    stick.\r\n\r\nBut you won't see the languages switching allegiance to the Chinese
    script, even if there is all the motivation in the world to do so. <em>Chinese-style
    scripts cannot be used to naturally write anything other than a relatively small
    group of languages.</em> If there was any way at all that Korean and Japanese
    could be adequately written in Chinese, we would have figured it out sometime
    in the last couple of thousand years when we were firmly in the Chinese cultural
    sphere and absorbed everything Chinese. Fortunately, human creativity prevailed
    and we figured out writing systems that were actually capable of writing Korean
    and Japanese.\r\n\r\nOnly a very small number of languages at one end of the morphological
    spectrum lend themselves to being written with logographic writing systems. Most
    languages cannot simply switch over to being written in Chinese. A latter-day
    Atat\xFCrk who orders his national language to switch to Chinese writing would
    most likely be unable to find any linguist capable of carrying out the command.\r\n\r\nI'm
    curious where you are getting your ideas about logographic writing systems if
    you think they can be readily applied to any language. There are certain advantages
    to using a logographic system, but written English already shares many of these
    advantages, being not purely phonetic but having many logographic features. Most
    languages are probably best served by scripts balancing phonetic and logographic
    features, and arguably written English has evolved to strike a close-to-optimal
    balance."
  created: '2007-07-07 15:54:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW William, your use of \"conquered\" is quite telling. It echoes the imperialistic
    jingoism of Morison: \"The Roman alphabet is not merely in possession, but it
    is in possession by right of conquest. The conquest was not made possible, or
    even expedited, by external authority; the victory of the Roman letter was due
    to its inherent flexibility and rationalism.\" That's from his introduction in
    a book promoting the Latinization of... Hebrew! I'm sure you'd <em>love</em> to
    see the Torah and your other books Romanized...\r\n\r\n> But you won\u2019t see
    the languages switching allegiance to the Chinese script\r\n\r\nI don't share
    your blinders.\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m curious where you are getting your\r\n> ideas
    about logographic writing systems\r\n\r\nWhile I'm curious where you are getting
    your <em>emotions</em> about China.\r\nWilliam, I already know.\r\n\r\n> English
    has evolved to strike a close-to-optimal balance.\r\n\r\nPure bunk.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-07 16:24:30'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "So how can I make you understand that switching to the Chinese script is
    not an option for most languages because of an inherent mismatch between the morphologies
    of the languages and the nature of the script, not because of some cultural preference,
    politics, or emotions?\r\n\r\nThe dominance of the Latin script, loosely speaking,
    is a historical accident, owing to the Roman Empire, ascendancy of Western Europe,
    and all that. Any reasonable phonetic-based script could have taken its place.\r\n\r\nBut
    if we went into a counterfactual history where Chinese culture achieved supremacy
    the world over--if it were Chinese colonisers instead of Europeans entering Africa,
    Southeast Asia, and the New World in the last few centuries--the different languages
    of the world would still not have adopted the Chinese script. Instead, a diglossia
    would have developed where people would write in Chinese and speak in their vernacular
    tongues, or more likely the vernacular tongues would be supplanted by Chinese.\r\n\r\nAt
    this point, I'm wondering if you are the one driven by your emotions and false
    hope to seeing a ready alternative to Latin in the Chinese script when there isn't
    one. The Chinese script is perfectly suitable for the Chinese language (or at
    least as much as the Latin is for English), but expecting it to work for languages
    that don't share the features of Chinese betrays an ignorance of how a logographic
    writing system works."
  created: '2007-07-07 16:58:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> So how can I make you understand ...\r\n\r\nMaybe by subjecting me to your
    anti-Chinese upbringing?\r\n\r\nHolding up English as a positive model... Puhleez.\r\n\r\n>
    I\u2019m wondering if you are the one driven by your emotions \r\n\r\nOf course
    I am. The difference is, I admit it.\r\n\r\n> betrays an ignorance of how a logographic
    writing system works.\r\n\r\nNo, I think you're betraying stunted imagination
    and creativity.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-07 17:16:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: When Hrant goes into his irrelevant nasty invective, I'm out.
  created: '2007-07-07 17:46:06'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "The Chinese script and the Latin script for English are mere examples chosen
    for convenience. I would use other logographic systems as examples, but both Egyptian
    and Mayan hieroglyphs include phonetic elements.\r\n\r\nLet's take for simplicity's
    sake only those Egyptian hieroglyphs that function as logograms. Do you think
    you could write Armenian with them? No, you couldn't. Could you write Ancient
    Egyptian with the Armenian script? Yes, you could, once you worked out some kinks.
    Would you agree, or am I betraying stunted imagination and creativity?\r\n\r\nSo
    my pointing out the limitations of the Chinese script for something it was never
    meant to be used for--writing languages other than Chinese--amounts to subjecting
    you to my supposed anti-Chinese upbringing? You're trying to make this look like
    a clash between those appealing to emotions, when I'm only trying to point out
    what I thought was a well-understood feature of the Chinese script.\r\n\r\nSo
    I can only conclude that I have been taking my familiarity with the Chinese script
    for granted, and others may not understand the most basic feature of the script
    to the point of harbouring illusions about it being portable across languages
    the way phonetic scripts can. Have you studied Chinese? That would help immensely
    in understanding what I'm talking about."
  created: '2007-07-07 17:50:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Brian: <em>Only a very small number of languages at one end of the morphological
    spectrum lend themselves to being written with logographic writing systems.</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is the crux of the matter, and it is what Hrant is obviously unable to see or
    understand, either because he simply doesn't know enough about linguistics or
    because he is blinded by the fact that he is arguing with a dead man (Stanley
    Morison) and not genuinely engaged in a conversation with the people on this forum.
    Or both."
  created: '2007-07-07 20:17:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Of course I know how Chinese works. It's not too complicated.\r\nWhat's complicated
    is predicting ways it might be <em>adapted</em>.\r\n\r\n\"Never meant to be used
    for\"? What a strange concept.\r\nLatin was never meant to be used for English.
    And it shows!\r\n\r\nAh, John is here! Our own personal Morison. The one would
    loves\r\nseeing every other script reformed up the wazoo, just never ever\r\nhis
    precious Latin.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-07 20:24:42'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Of course I know how Chinese works. It\u2019s not too complicated.</em>\r\n\r\nand
    that's not hubris, hrant? *jab*\r\n\r\ni don't mind the trowing of punches here,
    but please keep it above the belt."
  created: '2007-07-07 20:37:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant, what I'm usually accused of, including by you, is being too conservative
    in my respect for the traditional forms of the scripts I work with. The only case
    I can think of in which you might think me in favour of script reform is Cyrillic.
    But I have not advocated that Cyrillic should be reformed, only acknowledged the
    reality that it <em>was</em> reformed, 300 years ago, and that the linguistic
    and cultural heritage of that 300 year period makes the pre-Petrine forms inappropriate
    to modern texts.\r\n\r\n<em>Of course I know how Chinese works. It\u2019s not
    too complicated.</em>\r\n\r\nOh good, because I don't really understand it because
    I don't know enough about Chinese linguistics, which is why I have found Brian's
    comments to be helpful. But if you understand it, please explain it to me, and
    explain also the <em>reasons</em> why you disagree with Brian's analysis that
    the logographic writing system only works well for a narrow range of languages
    with particular morphologogical structures (of course, you will need to explain
    what those morphological structures are and why different morphologies are not
    a barrier to adapted use of a logographic writing system). Simply repeating that
    you disagree with Brian isn't advancing the discussion, especially not when he
    is displaying remarkable patience and taking the time to compose carefully reasoned
    arguments and you are responding with one-liners, irrelevancies and insults.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-08 18:38:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, you were giddy with joy* when I showed this\r\ndisheartening photo
    during my Rome presentation:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1-01_Samira_5295.jpg]\r\n\r\n*
    I clearly remember you exclaiming: \"I love it!\"\r\nAnd the smile on your face
    lasted at least an hour.\r\n\r\nBut during my Alphabet Reform talk in Boston,
    you said \"it's like you're saying your wife's nose is too big.\" The proper Western
    reply to that would have been \"Oh, I'm so sorry, I didn't know she was your wife.\"
    But the best reply really is \"She's not your wife, get over it.\"\r\n\r\nBut
    you're not that candid these days; these days, and in fact ever since that Boston
    talk, you consistently dig a deeper trench concerning any disagreement we might
    have, pretty much about anything. I think it's partly because you think I insulted
    your \"wife\", and partly because you don't like showing weakness. And you use
    classic Western twists of logic and rhetoric to avoid the perception that you
    should change your mind.\r\n\r\nI'm sorry, but you're quite easy to read.\r\nBeing
    surrounded by people like you for 20+ years has helped.\r\n\r\n> the logographic
    writing system only works well for a narrow\r\n> range of languages with particular
    morphologogical structures\r\n\r\nHere what you're usually accused of certainly
    applies.\r\n\r\n> he is displaying remarkable patience\r\n\r\nNo, I see it as
    Western coolness covering up intransigence.\r\nAnd I cannot change people, not
    after a certain age, not via\r\nan internet forum. Often my short replies are
    better than\r\nignoring somebody, at least in my eyes.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-08 19:30:23'
- author:
    name: akma
    picture: 110015
  body: "Setting aside, if possible, the intensities of polemical discourse, may I
    ask John how his SBL Greek typeface is coming? As a Greek-type-using SBL member,
    I'm eagerly interested.\r\n\r\nAnd George, will any of these newly-designed Greek
    faces be released into the wild?"
  created: '2007-07-09 03:38:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Further:\r\nThe idea that a person's opinions can be separated from that
    person's being and still be ideally addressed assumes that opinions are formed
    exclusively as a result of intellect and knowledge; that circumstance and emotion
    are irrelevant. This idea is a mainstay of Western argumentation, and it is naive
    and/or contrived in order to obstruct revelation. It is an idea that allows people
    to participate in discussion without taking on any true risk of change. It is
    fearful, lazy and despotic. The multifarious contexts of an opinion are integral
    to it; it is the pretending otherwise that I -naturally in the minority in this
    decidedly Western milieu- refuse to let slide. Often, what some people dismiss
    as a personal attack or an irrelevant/distracting aside is to me a piece of the
    puzzle of opinion - a refraction of Truth.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-09 09:54:27'
- author:
    name: gtrianta
    picture: 111263
  body: "I really don't know akma.\r\n\r\nI can only guess that, since the latin version
    of Veronica's typeface (Karmina) is already released through <a href=\"http://www.type-together.com/\">Type
    Together</a>, she will release the greek version as well (when it's finished).
    \r\n\r\nI also know that Michail's typeface is made for GRNET (Greek Research
    & Technology Network) but I am don't know if it's going to be publically released.\r\n\r\nFor
    the rest you can contact each designer via email and ask them.\r\n\r\nGeorge Triantafyllakos
    - backpacker.gr"
  created: '2007-07-09 11:27:28'
- author:
    name: savoiealice
  body: "My typeface Capucine is still in progress, and the Greek shown in Thessaloniki
    is part of a larger project including a latin version and a range of different
    weights. A specimen will be available soon.\r\nI can let you know when the typeface
    will be released if you wish.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAlice"
  created: '2007-07-09 12:21:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Akma,\r\n\r\nMy display typeface will be released when I do the Latin characters
    to match :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-09 17:08:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Alice,\r\nPlease let me know when your Capucine is completed and when the
    specimen will be available? It is quite a warm yet clean face which should be
    out there for the world.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-09 17:14:12'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\r\n>My typeface Capucine is still in progress, and the Greek shown in Thessaloniki
    is part of a larger project including a latin version and a range of different
    weights.\r\n\r\n>My display typeface will be released when I do the Latin characters
    to match :-)\r\n\r\nAt last people designing type the right way - after all Latin
    emerged from Greek, so that should be the way all type is designed. ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-09 17:19:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, no Latin-Greek font system is really complete without Etruscan.  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-09 17:21:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>John, you were giddy with joy* when I showed this\r\ndisheartening photo
    during my Rome presentation:</em>\r\n\r\nHrant, I think you're mistaking me with
    someone else. Did I even attend your presentation in Rome? I have no memory of
    it. If I ever made any appreciative noise about that laughable piece of pseudo
    Arabic it would have been in appreciation of its humour. It's so over the top
    in its aping of a particular Latin original as to be just silly. Also, it's an
    advertising display face, so of absolutely zero interest to me typographically.\r\n\r\nNot
    only do I not recall making the 'wife's nose' comment in Boston, it seems to me
    so unlikely a comment to have issued from my lips. Are you sure it wasn't someone
    else who said that?\r\n\r\nInsulted my wife? I also don't recall you doing or
    saying anything regarding my wife.\r\n\r\nSo on all counts, I simply don't recall
    any of the things you recount, and in any case, not one of them indicates that
    I believe every script except 'my precious Latin' should be 'reformed up the wazoo'.
    Nor do I think I've ever shown any particular attachment or regard for the Latin
    script; indeed, it is precisely because I'm not particularly enamoured of it that
    I chose to work extensively with other writing systems.\r\n\r\nYou are, it seems
    to me, attacking a chimera, and I protest at being made to stand in for Stanley
    Morison in your fantasy battles."
  created: '2007-07-09 17:45:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>may I ask John how his SBL Greek typeface is coming?</em>\r\n\r\nVery
    well. I'm busy re-spacing some of it at the moment, and then adjusting the hinting
    to accomodate the new spacing. (And writing 100 times on the blackboard 'I will
    not hint before finalising spacing. I will not hint before finalising spacing...')\r\n\r\nI
    expect to have it release in the next few weeks."
  created: '2007-07-09 17:48:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I have no memory of it.\r\n\r\nI remember it like it was 5 minutes ago.
    And when I asked you to elaborate,\r\nyour adulation for its Latinization was
    explicit. Deny away - it happened.\r\n\r\n> Are you sure it wasn\u2019t someone
    else who said that?\r\n\r\nThat one I remember like it was 6 minutes ago. But
    I agree that it was atypical (atypically candid) of you. Especially online, you've
    become extremely careful to leave the impression that you don't harbor opinions,
    you only harbor <em>facts</em>...\r\n\r\n> Insulted my wife?\r\n\r\nNote my quotes.
    Anyway you weren't married at that point, right?\r\n\r\nThis is not a chimera,
    it's merely a weasel.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-09 17:57:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>The idea that a person\u2019s opinions can be separated from that
    person\u2019s being and still be ideally addressed assumes that opinions are formed
    exclusively as a result of intellect and knowledge; that circumstance and emotion
    are irrelevant.</em>\r\n\r\nBut I'm not interested in your <em>opinions.</em>
    I'm interested in whether you have sufficient knowledge of a topic to justify
    having an opinion of it. If you opinion is <em>only</em> based on circumstance
    and emotion, then your opinion is irrelevant to everyone but yourself. It is only
    the degree to which your opinion is informed by knowledge that can be shared with
    other people that your opinion is of any value. I can't share in your emotions,
    and believe me, I have no wish to. And our circumstances are largely different
    and intersect only in the realm of typography and these particular forums. So
    we must rely on conversation to understand each other, and trying to second guess
    each other's emotional motivation seems to me simply insulting and 'helpful' only
    in self-justification. So you proclaim that I am 'easy to read', despite being
    consistently wrong about me. Maybe I'm easy to misread. Or maybe you're just generally
    good at misreading. I try to avoid 'reading' you or guessing your motivation,
    and am only forced to when you refuse to engage with the actual ideas that are
    being discussed and instead attack people and insult them. Then I have to wonder
    whether this is a defense mechanism against being exposed as not knowing what
    you're talking about. Frankly, I'd rather not play such games, and would prefer
    it greatly if you would just engage with the ideas. So, for instance, when Brian
    repeatedly and in different ways explains the linguistic reasons why he thinks
    the Chinese writing system is unsuited to writing many other languages, I'd like
    to see you respond to those reasons, i.e. to have a conversation about linguistics,
    which is the field in which Brian has indicated that he believes there to be limitations
    on the adaptability of Chinese script to other languages. Instead, you start insulting
    him and making crass assumptions about his motivation. Heck, maybe he is motivated
    by 'Western coolness covering up intransigence', despite being Korean, I don't
    know. And you don't know either. You're just playing at being a clever interpreter
    of human motives instead of engaging with his ideas. Neither of us knows Brian
    well enough to make such claims about his motivation. But his motivation isn't
    on the table. What is on the table are some specific ideas about the nature of
    Chinese morphology and the particular appropriateness of the Chinese writing system
    to such morphology. And those ideas you have still not addressed, and show no
    sign of addressing.\r\n\r\nI have no trouble acknowledging the role of circumstance
    and emotion in the forming of opinion. But you frequently seem to treat them as
    the only factors, and deliberately ignore the contributions of intellect and knowledge.
    This is simply irrationalism, and it would be alarming if not for the fact that
    you apply it selectively, only resorting to it when you are clearly outgunned
    on the intellect and knowledge front. Or am I crassly second-guessing your motivation?
    I probably am, but at least I can see that."
  created: '2007-07-09 18:08:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I remember it like it was 5 minutes ago. And when I asked you to elaborate,\r\nyour
    adulation for its Latinization was explicit. Deny away - it happened.</em>\r\n\r\nSince
    I have no memory of it, I can hardly deny that it happened. But I am confident
    in denying your interpretation of it. Looking at the image, I know exactly what
    my response would have been, because it is still my response: it is hilarious,
    and what makes it funny and in its own way strangely impressive is the way in
    which Latin letterforms have been used so uncritically as Arabic letters."
  created: '2007-07-09 18:11:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Especially online, you\u2019ve become extremely careful to leave the
    impression that you don\u2019t harbor opinions, you only harbor facts...</em>\r\n\r\nWhereas
    you are insistent that all your opinions are insights.\r\n\r\nMost of what I post
    belongs in the area between fact and opinion, i.e. the realm in which ideas are
    discussed among rational and educated people. Opinions are just solidifications
    of interpretation. Ideas are fluid, especially in the medium of conversation.
    But they have to be discussed in good faith, which means that the people engaged
    in the conversation have to deal with the ideas that are put forward.\r\n\r\nBrian
    put forward some idea, and you have refused to deal with them, preferring to insult
    him by ascribing his ideas to unworthy motivations. I note that he seems now to
    have withdrawn from the conversation. I don't know whether that was because you
    insulted him, or because you didn't engage with his ideas so the conversation
    wasn't going anywhere. In either case, you are responsible for ending the possibility
    of fruitful discussion. Again."
  created: '2007-07-09 18:20:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"At last people designing type the right way - after all Latin emerged from
    Greek, so that should be the way all type is designed.\"\r\n\r\nToo bad I didn't
    do the hieroglyphics and cuneiform first though. Heck, the capitals even were
    done after the lowercase! Hardly historically correct :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-09 18:35:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris, I always start with an undeciphered script, e.g. Linear A, the Phaistos
    hieroglyphs, or Indus Valley script. One can take a much more formalist approach
    to type design when liberated from the pesky limitations of language.\r\n\r\n[Now
    watch as Hrant, a few years from now, cites this message as 'evidence' that I
    don't care about language (regardless of whatever else I might have said on the
    subject in the past or what I might say in the interim). This is the modus papazianus.]\r\n\r\nThis
    will be my last message to this thread, so I'll try to drag it back to the original
    topic, provide the promised sprecimen of SBL Greek, and let Epictetus answer Hrant:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/epictetus51_4362.gif]\r\n\r\n[Note:
    does not show kerning.]"
  created: '2007-07-09 19:11:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks John! Now I feel better :-)\r\nI wish I could say that I start a typeface
    with some either academic, philosophic, or linguistic set of underpinnings. The
    truth is, I just start them, only the diety know why--now finishing them? that
    is a whole other catastrophe for me :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-09 21:40:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> If you opinion is only based on circumstance and emotion ...\r\n\r\nThis
    is not humanly possible.\r\n\r\nEvery single thing you wrote in that paragraph
    reinforces my view that You Don't Get It. Your persistent inability or unwillingness
    to factor in things beyond intelligence and knowledge (and claiming otherwise
    is worth nothing) is what will always hold you back, what will forever prevent
    you from really understanding anything deeper than the ripples on the surface.
    Your formalism is your cage. At least, you are not alone.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-09 21:53:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And concerning what you (and Brian) see as the limitations of logography
    with respect to something like English, not only are you being too absolutist
    (pretending that something has to be perfect or even ideal for it to happen and
    be useful) but you're also exhibiting the typical rigidity when it comes to defining
    things (your definition of English for example is pretty much guaranteed to be
    shallow and convenient, and in the end useless - I know from experience of \"discussing\"
    things with you) as well as a complete lack of imagination concerning what really
    might be possible at the confluence of script, language, and the human mind. Einstein
    said \"imagination is more important than knowledge\". I know you disagree (you've
    said so) but many people don't, and this has nothing to do with intelligence or
    knowledge. Progress depends on imagination; it is a mystical force that suddenly
    makes something work, against all odds and expectations. But you are not interested
    in imagination or progress, you are interested in the elaboration of the status
    quo - so I guess you're doing just fine. Also, if I'm not spending the time elaborating
    on why you're wrong, all that means is that I think it's not worth the effort.
    And if you are spending the time, all that means is that it's important to you,
    nothing more. It doesn't take insight to type stuff up.\r\n\r\nWhat is insulting
    is not my attempt at putting things in their\r\nnecessary personal context, it's
    your inhuman attitude towards\r\ndiscourse, which is the golden heart of this
    watering hole.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-09 22:13:08'
- author:
    name: gtrianta
    picture: 111263
  body: "Michail Semoglou's (member of the selection committee of \"\u03B5\u03B1\")
    text has been translated in english. You can read it <a href=\"http://ea.backpacker.gr/page.asp?which=results&lang=english\">here</a>\r\n\r\nGeorge
    Triantafyllakos - backpacker.gr"
  created: '2007-07-12 13:24:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks George!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-12 20:08:18'
- author:
    name: akma
    picture: 110015
  body: Thank you, all. I look forward to the release of John's typeface (we've been
    afflicted with several prominent ugly Greek typefaces in the biblical field recently),
    and will keep an eye open for Alice and Chris's also. As a mere professor, I'll
    probably stick with John's (to which I'll have free access through the SBL) --
    and cast an envious eye on the others.
  created: '2007-07-14 16:28:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "George,\r\nWas there a critique session there during the conference? I would
    love to have heard the dialogue about all of the entries.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-14 20:30:20'
- author:
    name: gtrianta
    picture: 111263
  body: "The jury members met on Saturday 23 of June in the exhibition venue. They
    discussed each submission separately in terms of innovation in design, outlines\u2019
    quality, language acuity etc and reviewed all submissions in each category overally.
    Their comments and remarks were really interesting but unfortunately I don't have
    a record of them :) I hope <a href=\"http://ea.backpacker.gr/page.asp?which=results&lang=english\">Michail's
    text</a> can answer some of your questions.\r\n\r\nGeorge Triantafyllakos - backpacker.gr"
  created: '2007-07-15 17:20:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "George,\r\n\r\nThis part of his remarks is what peeked my interest to know
    more:\r\n\r\n\"However, we were troubled by the limited number of submissions
    by Greek designers, mainly in the Text category, but also in the other categories.
    We were also troubled by the fact that in some submissions there was an obvious
    lack of technical skills and a lack of perception of the movement and the morphology
    of the letters.\"\r\n\r\nThe words \"perception of the movement and the morphology
    of the letters\" are what I would like to hear more about. This is where I feel
    I could learn the most from him and perhaps become better at designing Greek fonts.
    Too bad there was no record made, it would have been quite educational.\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-15 18:32:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I was also quite surprised to see so few submissions from native Greeks.
    It makes it appear that far more Greek type design is coming out of Gerry's students
    in Reading than from the country of Greece. Is there really so little interest
    at home or has the rest of the world just become intrigued at the possibility
    of working in a foreign script?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-15 19:00:01'
date: '2007-07-04 10:28:34'
node_type: forum
title: '"greek alphabet"'

---
