---
author:
  name: kegler
  picture: 110368
body: "Cruel...but fair.\r\nhttp://itre.cis.upenn.edu/~myl/languagelog/archives/004688.html"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I've seen negativity about comic sans before, but this is extreme. Will
    Vincent Connare really become the Salman Rushdie of typography?\r\n\r\nProbably
    not, the Typotaliban is all bark, and no bite."
  created: '2007-07-05 15:43:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "from the comment:\r\n\r\n>Will Vincent Connare really become the Salman Rushdie
    of typography?\r\n\r\nIf so, I hope the Brits protect him as they did Rushdie,
    and perhaps as a consolation could send him the gorgeous <a href=\"http://www.eonline.com/news/article/index.jsp?uuid=ed1a664d-9538-487b-9f0b-9bc4b4e5330c\">Padma
    Lakshmi</a>, who is available as she just left Rushdie.\r\n\r\nOk, he doesn't
    deserve knighthood for Comic Sans, but it is fine for limited uses. He's not responsible
    for its misuse and overuse. "
  created: '2007-07-05 15:45:11'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>He\u2019s not responsible for its misuse and overuse.</em>\r\n\r\nOr
    the fact that Microsoft ended up <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comic_Sans\">including
    it in the Windows operating system</a>."
  created: '2007-07-05 16:29:41'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: The Rushdie analogy is funny. The difference is that the work of Salman Rushdie
    is far more mature but he doesn't go around saying it's amazing stuff like Vince
    does with Comic Sans.
  created: '2007-07-05 16:36:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Mature? He's a danm artsy pedant. Look at those eyebrows. Just because he
    can write well doesn't mean he's a good person (something we've seen in the font
    world too). Really, Padma should've seen right through the faux knight from the
    start. But then she <em>did</em> have that amazing scar of hers removed, which
    can't be a good sign as to the quality of what's <em>inside</em>, especially since
    she used to wear it with explicit pride.\r\n\r\nBTW William, are you now moving
    away from wispy blondes or something?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-05 16:46:10'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">he doesn\u2019t go around saying it\u2019s amazing stuff\r\n\r\nI've not
    seen a recent interview with Salman, but as I recall in the ones I have seen he
    did seem quite pleased with himself, and a bit smug. I think he does consider
    his work amazing, as do many of his readers and reviewers. \r\n\r\nI think the
    similarity is that neither Salman or Vinnie are apologetic for the trouble they\u2019ve
    caused. The difference is that Vinnie is not such a burden on the British tax
    payers.  "
  created: '2007-07-05 16:48:39'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: You're right, it's probably not the best analogy. Paris Hilton might be better.
    Famous for nothing.
  created: '2007-07-05 16:51:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "British taxpayers pay for their country's persistent imperialist dreams.\r\nAnd
    if protecting a person and giving him knighthood help the slumber...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-05 16:58:17'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: At least Rushdie did not deliberately go about creating something that would
    be offensive. I doubt that he ever expected that radical Islamists would put down
    their Korans long enough to read his book, much less be offended by it. But with
    a font, well, it should be assumed that people will get stuck looking at it.
  created: '2007-07-05 17:06:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">BTW William, are you now moving away from wispy blondes or something?\r\n\r\nDon't
    get me in trouble, Hrant. My wife of 37 years is Chinese. I swear that blond was
    only before we met :) "
  created: '2007-07-05 17:08:12'
- author:
    name: patternmaker
    picture: 109951
  body: "<a href=\"http://globalnerdy.com/2007/06/21/the-world-needs-more-dialog-boxes-like-this/\">The
    World Needs More Dialog Boxes Like This\r\n</a>"
  created: '2007-07-05 17:13:36'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "\"I\u2019m going to go invent the Mussolini Hitler Bush font now.\"\r\n\r\nhaha."
  created: '2007-07-05 17:22:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">But with a font, well, \r\n\r\nWith great power comes great responsibility.
    ;-) \r\n\r\nI do however think it\u2019s very interesting that with fonts, unlike
    any other visible human-interaction component of software, it\u2019s relatively
    easy to put a name to the face. Maybe only a small percentage of people know that
    Matthew designed Tahoma, or Chuck made Lucida, but no-one knows who invented the
    other widgets, bits and bobs we interact with on a daily basis. \r\n\r\nSo unlike
    Paris, Vinnie didn\u2019t go out looking for publicity \u2013 his comments  have
    been purely defensive in response to the people who decided to use his name and
    image as part of their joke.  \r\n"
  created: '2007-07-05 17:28:28'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u201CI\u2019m going to go invent the Mussolini Hitler Bush font now.\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nAccording
    to Paula Scher the Haas foundry did so in 1957."
  created: '2007-07-05 17:42:07'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> So unlike Paris, Vinnie didn\u2019t go out looking for publicity \u2013
    his comments have been purely defensive in response to the people who decided
    to use his name and image as part of their joke.\r\n\r\nExactly right. I don't
    much care for the way Ban Comic Sans and others attack Connare. It's Microsoft
    to blame for Comic Sans, Connare is just a pawn. But \"defensive\" is a key word
    here. There are better ways to handle celebrity."
  created: '2007-07-05 18:08:26'
- author:
    name: Down10
    picture: 128220
  body: I don't see why they (Connare & Microsoft) can't just update the typeface
    to make it actually look nice and then just replace it across all their software.
    I'm pretty sure most users wouldn't notice or mind if their documents using Comic
    Sans suddenly looked a lot better.
  created: '2007-07-05 19:30:15'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Jesse, I think you're missing the point. The complaint is over-use, especially
    in places where the font is unsuitable \u2013 funeral notices, government forms,
    TDC ads etc.,. The 'it's badly designed' claim is just an add-on. The talibanners
    would argue that an 'improved' Comic Sans would just lead to more use.  \r\n"
  created: '2007-07-05 19:40:21'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"It\u2019s Microsoft to blame for Comic Sans...\"\r\n\r\nI was wondering
    why, and Then I got this call from TTT WHQ:\r\n\r\n\"I don't understand, why MS
    is to blame for violence against TDs, but we [the TTT], have this Achewood guy's
    real name and he's going to be comic stripped and inked to the limits of the law
    in CA, which is pretty much \"whatever...\"\r\n\r\n\"Don't worry Vincent, if you
    eat curb, we'll curb his eats, like forever.\"\r\n\r\nThat's all they said, then
    they went to hang up, but they missed the red button so I heard the rattling of
    low resolution fraction bars in the background. This usually means a badly spaced
    tatoo is being prepared."
  created: '2007-07-05 19:43:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William, blon<strong>d</strong>? The plot thickens...  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-05 19:49:15'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I'd be more likely to compare Vince Connaire's Comic Sans to The Da Vinci
    Code or The Bridges of Madison County. Of dubious quality and way overexposed,
    but harmless. Not worthy of more than disdain.\r\n\r\nI bought The Satanic Verses
    as a gesture of support for Rushdie and gave it a try, but ye gods it is pretentious
    and unreadable."
  created: '2007-07-05 20:07:38'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Not worthy of more than disdain.</cite>\r\n\r\nVery true. So I guess
    the eternal question is, why do people get so angry about Comic Sans and not Papyrus
    or Zapfino or other incredibly overused fonts? Is it that they\u2019re also people
    with irrational hatred for Microsoft, or is the quality of Comic Sans just offputting
    in some way?"
  created: '2007-07-05 20:15:28'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>or is the quality of Comic Sans just offputting in some way?</em>\r\n\r\npeople
    don't like being talked down to, there's something of a condescending tone about
    Comic Sans."
  created: '2007-07-05 20:18:56'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Or maybe typoholics are just more sensitive to it.\r\n\r\nI once had to cure
    some folks of using it on their PowerPoint presentations -- it was the default
    font of the kiddy crayon template they were using.  They, and their audience,
    didn't think it was \"condescending\" at all.\r\n\r\n(Of course, they were economists,
    and they were making presentations to the Mayor and City Council with it, but
    none of them noticed or cared....)"
  created: '2007-07-05 20:30:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"none of them noticed or cared\"\r\n\r\nThat's about the size of it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-05 20:39:31'
- author:
    name: shawkash
    picture: 110759
  body: "At least Sean Connery didn't be knighted because of acting such lifestyle
    like James Bond. Rusdhi didn't get it for insulting The messenger Mo7ammad too.
    Did Vince make comics sans to be like how is it now, or It was just to write a
    small text in a cartoon. As I remember?\r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-07-05 21:16:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> why do people get so angry about Comic Sans and not Papyrus or Zapfino\r\n\r\n1)
    Comic Sans is on a whole other level of over-use. I've seen funeral wreaths of
    dignitaries using it. And the reason over-use is generally frustrating is that
    it highlights the ignorance of the populace, and perhaps hence ourselves (in matters
    we don't happen to be skilled in).\r\n\r\n2) The outlines in Comic Sans are of
    decidedly lower quality than most any other over-used font. Just look at the \"R\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-05 21:17:46'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">At least Sean Connery didn\u2019t be knighted...\r\n\r\nAs a US Citizen
    I don't think Vinnie can't be knighted. Maybe Hillary will see to it that his
    services are recognized, or at the very least perhaps GW will issue a pardon.
    ;-) \r\n\r\nCheers, Si "
  created: '2007-07-05 21:22:21'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "We should so push for him to get a Presidential design award for Comic Sans,
    on the basis for it being a font so versatile it can be in everything from kids
    books to the funeral wreaths. Those morons in the White House might just fall
    for it!\r\n\r\nThen again, I work for someone who won a Presidential design award,
    so maybe I should just leave well enough alone."
  created: '2007-07-05 21:32:16'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I work for someone who won a Presidential design award\r\n\r\nCool, did
    they do this one? \r\n\r\nhttp://www.whitehouse.gov/kids/presidentsday/color/43.html"
  created: '2007-07-05 21:56:34'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Warning: This one will make you blub... \r\n\r\nhttps://host100.apollohosting.com/efdesignstudio/mkr_child2.jpg\r\n\r\n:-("
  created: '2007-07-05 22:16:01'
- author:
    name: shawkash
    picture: 110759
  body: "As you show us that, I have something to show as well. Did you read this
    from  Vincent Connare's site:\r\n\"Comic Sans was shown with other fonts to Program
    Managers at Microsoft and was then included in the Windows 95 Plus Pack that was
    a supplemental product to Windows 95. Later a Project Manager decided to include
    Comic Sans into the list of system fonts for the OEM versions of Windows 95. This
    was after I included basic support for Greek and Cyrillic. Finally it was added
    with Trebuchet, Webdings and Verdana as additional fonts to the Windows System
    fonts for the original Internet Explorer.\r\n\r\nNow it is part of the Microsoft
    Windows system fonts.\r\n\r\n<strong>Why?\r\n\r\nBecause it's sometimes better
    than Times New Roman, that's why.</strong> \r\n\r\nOr at least Apple thinks so.
    Comic Sans is the default font in  Apple's iCards on the web when it was first
    released.\"\r\n\r\nSource: http://www.connare.com/comic.htm\r\n\r\n:D"
  created: '2007-07-05 22:33:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Why?\r\n\r\nI've given various talks on how fonts end up in products. In
    this case the \"Web fonts\" got merged into Windows. Originally Internet Explorer
    was a separate download and included the font, but it, and its fonts became part
    of the product - hence Verdana, Georgia etc., The font's inclusion in Mac OS has
    the same basis - Internet Explorer. \r\n\r\nCheer, Si"
  created: '2007-07-05 22:36:21'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>There are better ways to handle celebrity.</em>\r\n\r\nOr is it notoriety,
    in this case?  ;-)"
  created: '2007-07-05 23:05:38'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: I don't see bikini photos of him on dlisted so he's definatly not a celebrity.
  created: '2007-07-05 23:40:25'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Wow, not many typographers have to justify their own fonts like that. I kind
    of feel bad for him...
  created: '2007-07-05 23:56:33'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I don't feel sorry for him. He's probably laughing all the way to the bank.
    He didn't exactly donate the font to Microsoft.
  created: '2007-07-06 00:28:19'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "I am totally over this Comic Sans hate. In all honesty, who really cares?
    People use it, they like it, let it be. Surely there are greater things to fuss
    over.\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-07-06 01:29:04'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "It is very readable at small sizes, which is more than you can say about
    many fonts. And I love the way it looks on my 60x60 to the left.\r\nScientific
    studies have shown that 9 out of 10 dopeyheads like Comic Sans."
  created: '2007-07-06 02:08:48'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: kris - Exactly. That's why it's Paris Hilton.
  created: '2007-07-06 02:30:58'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: I just wonder when offering unsolicited criticism online day after day gets
    old.
  created: '2007-07-06 04:26:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hey wouldn't it be funny if someone did a cartoon about some guy who created
    a crappy cartoon getting beaten up.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-06 06:23:40'
- author:
    name: "Kellie Str\xF8m"
    picture: 111448
  body: "I find some of the comments here and elsewhere truly bizarre - the stuff
    along the lines of \u201Cthe trouble they\u2019ve caused\u201D and the \u201Cburden
    on taxpayers\u201D business.\r\n\r\nNobody is forced to read the book, or use
    the typeface. And when people threaten violence and murder, be it religious or
    state leaders, or cartoonists, blaming the victims lends support to those threatening
    violence."
  created: '2007-07-06 10:02:26'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Nick, there are 1000's of those. Probably the cartoonist was just sharing
    the love...
  created: '2007-07-06 15:25:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Kellie, true tolerance is not what you've been taught.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-06 15:29:21'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">blaming the victims lends support to those threatening violence.\r\n\r\nWhat
    was I thinking? You're absolutely right, the UK government should protect Vinnie
    from badly drawn animals. \r\n\r\nSadly your leader prefers Arial http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/main.jhtml?xml=/news/2007/07/01/nrbrown301.xml"
  created: '2007-07-06 16:02:15'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: 'It would seem to indicate that Arial is preferred by people who are blind
    in one eye. '
  created: '2007-07-06 16:13:15'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: ">> It would seem to indicate that Arial is preferred by people who are blind
    in one eye.\r\n\r\nAs Comic Sans is by those blind in both."
  created: '2007-07-06 16:15:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "He's blind in one eye. How convenient. He can better turn a blind eye to\r\nwhat's
    really happening. The biological evolution of the western leader.\r\nThe next
    step must be gills instead of ears.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-06 16:17:15'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: The Arial Brown story is interesting as it dispels the myth that Serif fonts
    are easier to read, but on the down-side it supports the myth that sans are easier
    to read.
  created: '2007-07-06 16:31:23'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> As Comic Sans is by those blind in both.\r\n\r\nSo, what other font that
    is installed on almost every computer has casual hand-written feel? If there is
    one, somehow it slips my mind right now. This is probably the real problem. I
    would much prefer any number of casual fonts.\r\n\r\n> He can better turn a blind
    eye to what\u2019s really happening.\r\n\r\nWhat's really happening? Is anyone,
    anywhere, effectively dealing with what is really happening? (or are you still
    talking about fonts?)"
  created: '2007-07-06 16:37:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Is anyone, anywhere, effectively dealing with what is really happening?\r\n\r\nNot
    as long as we're spreading democracy.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-06 17:01:12'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> Not as long as we\u2019re spreading democracy.\r\n\r\nDemocracy isn't unique
    for spreading the manure of man. Almost any conceivable system can do it. What
    we really need is an everlasting omnipotent benevolent dictator who can put the
    riff-raff in their place. At least democracy allows us to criticize it, for now."
  created: '2007-07-06 17:48:17'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Brown uses Paralucent \r\nhttp://www.devicefonts.co.uk/cgi-bin/device2.cgi?action=news\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-07-06 19:25:20'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Right. When he's got a choice. No way would his design team choose Arial.
  created: '2007-07-06 19:38:01'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: So why is it okay to choose Arial for email? Why not Verdana, Lucida? If all
    his "design team" is interested in is the public image... seems like more Labour
    spin.
  created: '2007-07-06 20:09:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> At least democracy allows us to criticize it\r\n\r\nAh, but the lack of
    Freedom To Be Heard (via a 99% controlled media)\r\nmeans that Freedom Of Speech
    in fact acts as a mollifier against action.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-06 23:11:09'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> Ah, but the lack of Freedom To Be Heard (via a 99% controlled media)\r\n\r\nYou
    have a point. But perhaps apathy and cynicism are the real villains?"
  created: '2007-07-07 00:17:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think hubris is: a peon's delusion that he can matter.\r\nFostered by the
    system to blind the people into compliance.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-07 00:29:48'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Ah well, you are going deep; I feel the need to rise for air.\r\n: )"
  created: '2007-07-07 00:48:45'
- author:
    name: inde
    picture: 112647
  body: this is ridiculous! comic sans if a font that has worthily won a place in
    font history! i mean there are other fonts that cause disgust and are sloppy !
    why concentrate the hate on comic sans?
  created: '2007-07-07 14:03:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "A debate on Comic Sans, fresh new subject. Easy pickin's. I hope Vince is
    enjoying this lucky 777 day :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-07 22:41:11'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "To be honest threats of violence in type design comes up so infrequently
    that it's worth discussing, even if the perps are poorly illustrated animals.
    \r\n\r\nPerhaps we need a list of the most intimidating (although mostly harmless)
    font people.\r\n\r\nI'll start us off, in reverse order...\r\n\r\n5.\tFrancisco
    \u2018Iron bar\u2019 Griffo \u2013 scourge of son-in-laws everywhere \r\n4.\tDave
    Farey - of the \"London Font Firm\"\r\n3.\tJohn \u2018Japanning\u2019 Baskerville
    \u2013 was known to lacquer his victims \r\n2.\tJohn \u2018The enforcer\u2019
    Downer - calling it what it was \r\n1.\tClive \u2018NFNT\u2019 Bruton - don't
    make me come to Montreal... \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-08 02:54:18'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Excellent. I'd only switch the top two. No one is more menacing than Downer.
    Even with his shirt off, dancing like a stripper.\r\n\r\nMaybe coming up number
    6 is the House Industries Hardcore Band."
  created: '2007-07-08 03:24:18'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: http://www.amishrakefight.org/gfy/
  created: '2007-07-09 14:42:43'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: I, for one, was wondering just how long it would take for Mr. Connare to show
    up on this thread...
  created: '2007-07-09 19:28:17'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "There's nothing like being graceful...(and this is nothing like it). And
    here I was defending the font.\r\n\r\nI wonder how many people just bookmarked
    that site?\r\n: )\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-09 20:22:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">No one is more menacing than Downer. \r\n\r\nFlashing before my eyes: \r\n\r\nThe
    lights come up. James Montalbano, Brooklyn Kung Fu Master, vs John 'the Downer'
    for 'typo tough guy' of our times. Venue Typecon 2007. The Ring is dazzling with
    bright light, girls parade in front of the ring holding up competing cards, in
    Clearview and Roxy Bold. The typo-crowd screams out the font id's. \r\n\r\nThe
    mat has on it a 12' square vat of printers ink, a foot deep. This gives Downer,
    water polo master, an even chance against Montalbano, Kung Fu demon. \r\n \r\nThe
    bell rings, Montalbano growls menacingly, Downer barks and lungs, the ink flies,
    the crowd goes wild....  "
  created: '2007-07-10 03:34:31'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'You missed the part where he rips his shirt off. Assuming he was wearing
    one to begin with. '
  created: '2007-07-10 04:00:56'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Laughing out loud at James' (jpad's) comment.
  created: '2007-07-10 05:54:51'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Just realized I got my threads mixed up:\r\n\r\nFrom a link I found at Vince\u2019s
    site; How many fonts have their own flickr page?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/groups/comicsans/\r\n\r\nIn
    my mind, that pretty well puts it beyond niggling opinions, like it or not.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-10 06:16:00'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: Thanks for the warning of the sound, vince. I logged in to that link in a
    office that was quiet ... (was being a key word).
  created: '2007-07-10 14:44:12'
date: '2007-07-05 15:29:38'
node_type: forum
title: Font Rage

---
