---
author:
  name: pattyfab
  picture: 109929
body: "Here's a funny bit about it:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.nytimes.com/2007/07/05/fashion/05Cyber.html"
comments:
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "Nah,\r\n\r\nhave a phone, have an i, didn't especially want or need them
    together, besides who buys v.1 of new technology?\r\n\r\n--N"
  created: '2007-07-06 05:36:39'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Who? 1 million people.
  created: '2007-07-06 08:36:25'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "I have a phone. It hangs on the wall, with a cord that connect it to the
    world. It is the modern kind ... has buttons instead of a dial. \r\n\r\nWhy, is
    there something newer available now?"
  created: '2007-07-06 14:27:54'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I'm not rushing to buy it either\r\n\r\n1) ATT is crap\r\n2) no way to replace
    the battery w/o sending it in \r\n3) I don't like the idea of glass as opposed
    to buttons - both because of smudging and also not being able to feel the buttons.
    I prefer the compactness of flip phones too.\r\n4) let them work out the bugs
    first\r\n\r\nbut was curious about my fellow typophiles."
  created: '2007-07-06 14:38:27'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "Post emac, Apple has had the most horrible quality control. Ever. \r\nI'll
    probably buy an iphone in a year or two. Actually I hope blackberry appropriates
    the touch screen awesome two finger thing. I'd buy one of those.\r\n\r\nhttp://fakesteve.blogspot.com/"
  created: '2007-07-06 14:44:26'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I\u2019ll buy a second gen phone. And immediately use DVD Jon\u2019s activation
    cracks to run it on a reasonably priced network that isn\u2019t happy to cooperate
    with the government\u2019s illegal wiretapping schemes."
  created: '2007-07-06 15:19:16'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I have a phone. It hangs on the wall, with a cord that connect it to the
    world. It is the modern kind ... has buttons instead of a dial. \r\n\r\nIn the
    future all phones will have cords...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/adamaphone_5757.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cain-on-phone_6153.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/RoslinOnPhone_5654.jpg]\r\n\r\nSorry
    to be such a geek ;-)"
  created: '2007-07-06 15:57:47'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "> In the future all phones will have cords...\r\n\r\nDuh. All the other phones
    can carry secret computer and network-destroying viruses that will make mankind
    susceptible to devastating attacks from cybernetic beings. Or something like that\u2026
    8-D\r\n\r\nBut isn't <em>Galactica</em> set in the present, or even the past?
    Once the remnants of the 12 colonies find us on Earth, we can give them the iPhone.
    I'm sure that it could even win over the Cylons. After they interface with it,
    they would certainly loose all interest in dominating humanity."
  created: '2007-07-06 16:16:06'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "BTW, this geek talk is SO relevant. Why? Because <em>Battlestar Galactica</em>
    is sold over iTunes, which means that you can watch in on your iPhone! Now if
    we could just get <em>Doctor Who</em> in the iTunes Store\u2026"
  created: '2007-07-06 16:17:28'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Now if we could just get Doctor Who in the iTunes Store\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    just get the torrents. I feel justified since Doctor Who is paid for in part by
    the immoral expropriation of private funds. And because I\u2019m too geeky to
    wait three months for the Daleks to get to the states."
  created: '2007-07-06 16:25:05'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Thanks Dan, I feel slightly less geeky with you around ;-)\r\n\r\nMay the
    force be with you..."
  created: '2007-07-06 16:28:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't have a cellphone. It's a status symbol. I mean not having one.\r\n\"You
    don't need to be calling me. If I need you, I'll call you.\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-06 16:36:37'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: They say Saint Steve didn't previously own a mobile phone - If he worked for
    another comapany he might be waiting for v2 too?
  created: '2007-07-06 16:40:22'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I prefer having a cellphone and just ignoring calls that I don\u2019t feel
    like taking. But I\u2019m a bit of a bitchy queen."
  created: '2007-07-06 16:44:12'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "They're only making one more season of BSG so iphone contact percentage is
    going to be very high in the coming months!\r\nDo you thing v2 of the iphone will
    have sonic screwdriver capabilities? Or can call through time?"
  created: '2007-07-06 16:48:13'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "\"I don\u2019t have a cellphone. It\u2019s a status symbol. I mean not having
    one.\"\r\n\r\nI bet you miss out on fun times because no one can ever get ahold
    of you! "
  created: '2007-07-06 16:51:06'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Call through time only works if Apple can find a TARDIS, and seeing as how
    the Doctor has the last one, that\u2019s unlikely. And I think <a href=\"http://www.thinkgeek.com/geektoys/cubegoodies/8cff/\">someone
    else already got the sonic screwdriver tech license</a>.\r\n\r\nBut has anyone
    else noticed that the lack of a precision stylus for the iPhone would make it
    a pain to use for a lot of vector drawing purposes?\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-06 16:59:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> ignoring calls\r\n\r\nThat just makes people dislike you [more].\r\n\r\n>
    I bet you miss out on fun times\r\n\r\nDOES NOT COMPUTE\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-06 17:05:48'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>But has anyone else noticed that the lack of a precision stylus for
    the iPhone would make it a pain to use for a lot of vector drawing purposes?</cite>\r\n\r\nnot
    to mention accurate typing."
  created: '2007-07-06 17:17:40'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: 'I have played with a couple that are floating around our office [Mr Benson
    was our first buyer], and my initial concern was typing. I was pleasantly surprised
    to find that I could tap away on the keyboard with great ease and quickness, with
    not one mistake. '
  created: '2007-07-06 18:01:27'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: Oh, and BTW - <strong>I heart Battlestar.</strong>
  created: '2007-07-06 18:03:12'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Oh, and BTW - I heart Battlestar.\r\n\r\nSo say we all ;-)"
  created: '2007-07-06 18:13:59'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "Well safe to say as a Canadian I won't be getting one for a while. My friends
    in the US who have them love it.\r\n\r\nI will admit, I do not like cell phones,
    but I own one simply because my monthly cell bill is less than 1/2 the cost of
    just having a land line, never mind calling long distance. cell = $42 with features,
    landline = $80 just to have it plus $1.25/min long distance.\r\n\r\nNow, CB radio's
    that's were it's really at."
  created: '2007-07-06 18:42:45'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Some blurb on the two year TCO of iPhone vs similar AT&T plans - http://www.engadget.com/2007/06/26/how-does-the-iphone-stack-up-in-total-cost/ '
  created: '2007-07-06 19:35:52'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Patty,\r\n\r\nI do have a cell phone - but honestly, it is only used in the
    car...and only if I'm not the one driving.\r\n\r\nAT&T where we are has very little
    power, I can't even use an AT&T cell phone from my home - no signal.\r\n\r\nAs
    for calls on a \"digital\" situation - I love SKYPE. I call my family in England
    - and it's crystal clear. My stepson calls his friend in Korea on it - complete
    with cameras to they can see each other and have a grand conversation.\r\n\r\nThere
    is always new technology around the corner - but I really feel Apple has hurt
    themselves on this one. By keeping it exclusive to AT&T cuts a huge hunk out of
    the market - and by informing us that this is \"first generation\" with new improvements
    to be sold shortly - well, I don't want to be the first kid on the block anymore.\r\n\r\nI'm
    a big fan of Apple - but this product just isn't for me.\r\n\r\nAnd on a personal
    note to jselig - check with your phone company. Mine offered me a great savings
    by combining Internet with Cable TV with phone - and they threw in all the long
    distance phone call making I can handle to the USA mainland -- which j'adore!"
  created: '2007-07-06 20:25:47'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I need a phone that's more sling-stone shaped so I'm waiting. It's cool though
    that people will line up around the block to see it, buy it, and talk about it
    while other companies have to chase down, rope, brand and serial number customers
    just to get them to \"try it.\" 6 months after vista, e.g. most people at MS were/are
    still resisting their own product, and only about 7% of users have moved on to
    it. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-07-06 20:42:25'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">7% of users have moved on to it. \r\n\r\nSad I know, that's only 2% more
    total users than MacOS :-(\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-06 20:56:18'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Sad I know...</cite>\r\n\r\nDepends on how you look at it. It could
    just be viewed as proof that Windows XP isn\u2019t as bad as a lot of the anti-Microsoft
    crowd like to claim. My mom is still steaming along on Windows 2000 without any
    trouble."
  created: '2007-07-06 21:07:36'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: NPR had a story today about a firm called iFixit that has already disassembled
    an iPhone and posted photos of its innards. And they're apparently not that far
    away from an effective 'hacktivation,' allowing the phone to be used on different
    networks.
  created: '2007-07-06 23:52:01'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Supporters of font DRM take note - DVD Jon, hacktivation and NPR stories
    await if your dreams ever become reality. :-) '
  created: '2007-07-07 00:01:02'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I've been on vacation since last week, but I stopped at an Apple store in
    DesMoines last Friday and got one. I like it a lot. Typing is fine. The screen
    is beautiful. It's not as cool when AT&T coverage and WiFi is lacking (unsurprisingly).
    The reason I decided to get it was so I could carry fewer gadgets without losing
    their usefulness. Instead of having to choose between  carrying a cell phone,
    a Palm Pilot, an iPod, a pocket camera, and a note pad, I can have all five in
    one tiny device. Having the Internet too is icing on the cake.\r\n\r\n(Posted
    from my iPhone.)"
  created: '2007-07-07 04:20:11'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: It makes a handy alarm clock, too.
  created: '2007-07-07 04:34:02'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: I too just joined the million. It's the best internet experience I've ever
    had with a phone. Web pages appear in their true (albeit dezoomed) form, not "mobile"
    form, and you can actually read, see photos at full res, and input text. Yeah,
    surfing the web while waiting for the train is a geektastic thing to do. But it's
    impressive to meet so many self-professed <em>non</em>-geeks who see the fun and
    value in it as well.
  created: '2007-07-07 06:56:09'
- author:
    name: Jared Benson
    picture: 109417
  body: "I grabbed one the day it came out, and I absolutely love it, warts and all.
    It's by far the best mobile user experience I've seen. Its light years ahead of
    an industry who still believes that the way to sell more devices is to pack them
    with even more features that users will never find or use.\r\n\r\nDespite its
    criticisms, Apple's entry into the mobile market will transform the industry -
    of that I'm convinced. Suddenly the conversation has changed from form factor
    to user experience, and that's long overdue.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-07 07:50:51'
- author:
    name: Jared Benson
    picture: 109417
  body: "I'm trying to figure out how to create an iPhone-optimized Typophile - something
    like <a href=\"http://www.davidcann.com/digg/\">this</a> - just for kicks. How
    are you guys accessing Typophile with iPhone? Just browsing directly via Safari,
    or pulling in threads via RSS?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-07 07:54:19'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Direct to typophile.com/forum and <a href=\"http://typophile.com/user/103/track\">my
    Track page</a>. Lack of Flash support makes Typophile's front page useless of
    course.\r\n\r\nIsn't the iPhone's web popup menu form interface brilliant? "
  created: '2007-07-07 09:24:48'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Sad I know, that\u2019s only 2% more total users than MacOS :-(\"\r\n\r\nI
    know, I'm sorry you're so sad, but Apple is making $100 per iPhone user, and MS
    spent $35k per Vista user :(..."
  created: '2007-07-07 12:38:32'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Re Galactica: The 'humans' used to have wireless phones, but went back to
    wired ones during the First Cylone War, because the Cylons could intercept wireless
    conversations. (Useless C-lore, I know).\r\n\r\nRe iPhone (I read Apple calls
    it iPhone, not THE iPhone): Apparantly Apple plans to service the bigger European
    countries first, so we Dutch will have to wait. And even then \u2014 the European
    version of iPhone will be more advanced than the US-version (no oldfashioned EDGE
    overhere, but UMTS) and probably in need of better energy management, so I'll
    wait for the kinks that will cause to be ironed out.\r\nBut yes, I do want one.\r\n\r\nBert
    Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2007-07-07 13:15:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">The \u2019humans\u2019 used to have wireless phones, but went back to wired
    ones during the First Cylone War, because the Cylons could intercept wireless
    conversations. \r\n\r\nThere's a probably a lesson there. \r\n\r\n>I know, I\u2019m
    sorry you\u2019re so sad, but Apple is making $100 per iPhone user, and MS spent
    $35k per Vista user :(...\r\n\r\nBlub. Poor Microsoft. "
  created: '2007-07-07 15:22:23'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: An apple + skype partnership would have been epic.
  created: '2007-07-07 15:27:20'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: I just joined the club.  I couldnt hold out any longer ;)
  created: '2007-07-07 18:12:49'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: i was thinking an apple+<a href="http://www.skyy.com">skyy </a href">partnership
    would really be something.
  created: '2007-07-07 18:57:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Maybe Apple+<A HREF="http://imdb.com/title/tt0156812/">Skip</A>? '
  created: '2007-07-07 19:03:13'
- author:
    name: ilynam
    picture: 111282
  body: "I've been a big ol' pessimist on these, as most of the phones here in Japan
    do most of the things that the iPhone offers already (though less eloquently).
    My new pal Jona's been on tour over here this week and has been blogging/twittering
    non-stop (http://www.teamyacht.com/) via his iPhone, hitting up wi-fi signals
    left and right, despite a lack of phone service abroad. \r\n\r\nDragging a laptop
    around Tokyo looking for a signal sucks, and as you get away from the urban center,
    you are pretty much screwed to find a decent free signal. While I'll be forced
    to wait a while to hook one up, I'm pretty convinced. But then again, ATT isn't
    on this side of the Pacific..."
  created: '2007-07-07 19:22:42'
- author:
    name: Jared Benson
    picture: 109417
  body: "re: flash support\r\n\r\nRumors have it that we'll see flash support in the
    near future on iPhone. If so, that will be a good day for typophile."
  created: '2007-07-07 21:14:23'
- author:
    name: malbright
    picture: 111180
  body: Now that I've had mine a week, I can't imagine being without it. I absolutely
    love it. It's one of those devices that simply changes the game.
  created: '2007-07-08 02:02:19'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Crap. I had totally written off the need to get an iPhone since I have a
    very capable Samsung Blackjack (see my user experience critique of the <a href=\"http://idlemode.com/2007/06/29/user-experience-critiquesamsung-blackjack/\">Blackjack
    at Idlemode</a>.) But, having hefted one, and resized a web page and watched the
    screen scale in real-time... I'm now eating my words and jonesing for one badly.\r\n\r\nIt
    really does change the game. Windows Mobile -- with it's chunky pixel icons, its
    bitmap fonts, and it's lack of transitions -- by comparison feels about 10 years
    old when you're holding an iPhone in your hand. I feel sorry for anyone who has
    to make calls on a RAZR.\r\n\r\nBack to reality for a second... I think I'm still
    committed to waiting for the second gen iPhone when it's on a real (3G) network
    and when I can get more storage for my $599."
  created: '2007-07-09 22:26:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> its bitmap fonts\r\n\r\nYeah, danm bitmap fonts - as if screens are\r\nstill
    made of pixels or something - sheesh!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-09 22:32:14'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "I was hoping not to go into a rendering discussion... There's a vast difference
    between fonts cut for one size versus type that is designed to work at any size
    (both happen to be presented in pixels, but calling them bitmaps is my way of
    trashing old tech).\r\n\r\nAnd I was being flip with my RAZR comment... I'm alluding
    to the recent statistic indicating North Americans and Europeans are likely to
    replace their handset every 18 months or less."
  created: '2007-07-10 00:01:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I was hoping not to go into a rendering discussion...\r\n\r\nYeah, I wouldn't
    either if I were you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-10 00:17:30'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "How about a resolution discussion? Or b/w vs. anti-aliased?.... \r\n\r\nI
    have a RAZR and the type and icons on it look horrible. They aren't anti-aliased,
    and it feels a little like they had a few million of these low-res displays sitting
    around they needed to unload. For a recent phone, it looks awful, and the usability
    is bad as well. What would essentially be \"back\" on an iPhone is here called
    \"Exit\", \"Done\", \"Cancel\", or \"Back,\" depending what scrambled menu you're
    in. I won't be getting an iPhone soon; the timing is wrong and I've never been
    an early adopter, but I'm relishing the idea that the usability of it will prod
    other phone makers to improve. I'm waiting for the same improvements Joe is. \r\n\r\nI
    have to say I've been hearing raves from everyone I know who got one. The camera
    blows all my previous phone cameras away. Talk about resolution! "
  created: '2007-07-10 01:38:15'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: 'Could the iphone use Flash lite? '
  created: '2007-07-10 16:12:56'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "Also:\r\n\r\nSnip from Reuters:\r\n\r\nApple Inc. plans to launch a cheaper
    version of the iPhone in the fourth quarter that could be based on the ultra-slim
    iPod Nano music player, according to a JP Morgan report.\r\n\r\nKevin Chang, a
    JP Morgan analyst based in Taiwan, cited people in the supply channel he did not
    name and an application with the U.S Patent and Trademark office for his report
    dated July 8.\r\n\r\nApple filed a patent application document dated July 5 that
    refers to a multifunctional handheld device with a circular touch pad control,
    similar to the Nano's scroll wheel."
  created: '2007-07-10 16:14:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Apple Inc. plans to launch a cheaper version of the iPhone\r\n\r\nThe good
    news is that it won't be possible to make the text rendering worse.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-10 16:44:47'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Hrant, you shush until you've seen one in person!
  created: '2007-07-10 18:03:51'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> I bet you miss out on fun times because no one can ever get ahold of you!\r\n\r\nNow
    really, what proportion of phone calls do you get inviting you to do something
    fun ... as opposed to do something annoying.\r\n\r\n\"Honey, pick up some pads
    for me on your way home.\" How fun is that?"
  created: '2007-07-11 14:29:05'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\r\n>Apple Inc. plans to launch a cheaper version of the iPhone in the fourth
    quarter that could be based on the ultra-slim iPod Nano music player, according
    to a JP Morgan report.\r\n\r\nJP Morgan retracted that... \r\n\r\nhttp://w2ww.engadgetmobile.com/2007/07/10/jp-morgan-retracts-iphone-nano-insinuations-hints-at-3g-flavor/\r\n\r\nIt's
    hard to keep the Mac-rumors in order."
  created: '2007-07-11 14:53:04'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: Don, your wife must take lots of notes. :-)
  created: '2007-07-11 14:58:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Speaking of wives, guess what guys, my wife just got me a cellphone.\r\nA
    belated birthday gift. I told her she shouldn't have. And I meant it.\r\nAnd no,
    nobody's getting the number.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-11 15:32:46'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Hrant, I've got caller ID. :^P
  created: '2007-07-11 16:25:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You're assuming I'll be making calls with it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-11 16:45:56'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Making and receiving calls? That's so 80's - here are the top benefits of
    my old Nokia phone (retires tomorrow with AT&T scapping CDMA) \r\n\r\n1. A great
    alarm clock.\r\n2. Receiving sports scores via email.\r\n3. Costing a few bucks
    a month as it's still on an ancient corporate volume pay per use plan.\r\n\r\nTop
    uses for my second-hand HTC phone. \r\n\r\n1. A great alarm clock.\r\n2. Child
    entertaining - ringtones and crappy camera = hours of fun.\r\n3. Costing a few
    bucks a month as it's on a pay as you go plan.\r\n4. Using the Ascender Personality
    Pack to set the UI to Comic Sans to annoy designers.\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-11 17:25:56'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qg1ckCkm8YI">Hrant, you could always
    just make a milkshake out of it.</a>
  created: '2007-07-11 17:45:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You've made my day!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-11 17:54:14'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Nice! Expensive shake though. It reminds me of an advertisement from a scientific
    trade journal for a special centrifuge/processor: \r\n\"Reduces a mouse to a soup-like
    homogenate in just seconds!\" I have to say this in my Bunsen Honeydew voice. "
  created: '2007-07-11 18:00:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I actually ended up appreciating my phone this morning, but only because
    I use it as an  alarm  clock, and , being poorly designed, if it gets bumped around
    in my pocket the volume shuts off completely. \r\n\r\nFortunately, nobody care
    when the intern shows up for work at 10:30."
  created: '2007-07-11 18:09:33'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.forbes.com/feeds/ap/2007/08/24/ap4053419.html\"><strong>Teen
    \"unlocks\" iPhone from AT&T Network</strong></a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-25 04:01:58'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Did any of you read about the average bill that AT&T sends the IPhone user?
    \r\n\r\nIt averages 300 pages....\r\n\r\nI'd hate to see how much that would cost
    the end-user."
  created: '2007-08-25 13:32:01'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I love engadget's article \"Know Your Rights: Is it illegal to unlock my
    iPhone?\" It reminds me of some of the legal debates here on typophile...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.engadget.com/2007/08/24/know-your-rights-is-it-illegal-to-unlock-my-iphone/\r\n\r\n\"Is
    it illegal to unlock my iPhone?\r\n\r\nNo!\r\n\r\nReally?\r\n\r\nWell, no, but...\r\n\r\nI
    knew it.\""
  created: '2007-08-25 16:28:21'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: AT&T sent out a notice a few days ago saying that the bills would no longer
    itemize every file downloaded. It would have saved a lot of paper if they'd thought
    for two seconds about the implications of an unlimited data plan. But maybe their
    expectations were based on the behavior of pre-iPhone cell customers with unlimited
    data plans.
  created: '2007-08-25 17:11:40'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'I can''t find any info about this anywhere else: Will it ever be possible
    to change the default font in all these iPhone apps to something pleasant like
    Lucida or Myriad, or, cripes, anything? Helvetica everywhere? Gross!'
  created: '2007-08-25 22:49:34'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Someone will get around to skinning the OS eventually. Give it a few weeks
    for that software hack to turn up and on the darknets and get reverse-engineered
    into an open-source hack, and gangs of *NIX nerds will rip that thing apart.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, I\u2019d rather just have the superior Chinese derivative that sells at
    half the price."
  created: '2007-08-25 23:19:19'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> Will it ever be possible to change the default font in all these iPhone
    apps\r\n\r\nNow? No. Ever? Probably. It shouldn't be too difficult to hack someday
    soon."
  created: '2007-08-26 00:48:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "So it's been a week, has anyone gotten their $100 credit? There was an hilaroius
    bit int he Times this week that mentioned a guy who would have paid what now looks
    like a $200 sucker fee just to have an iPhone from day 1, and that he was, by
    profession, an addiction therapist.\r\n\r\nThe new product?  iNoPhone.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-09-08 14:56:53'
date: '2007-07-06 04:20:44'
title: So it's been a week, who's bought the iPhone?

---
