---
author:
  name: dehac
body: "Hi, \r\nI am working on my thesis project right now. So I came upon this question:
  How many serious type designers are there in the world right now? I know its kind
  of hard to say because there is so many people out there that make fonts for fun.
  But I kind of mean those that not necessarily live from creating type, but are very
  much devoted to type design. Those that have the knowledge to create typefaces that
  can stand out among all the junk. I am looking for the number of those people that
  would be able to develop a complex and satisfactory fontsystem. Not only from the
  technical and programming perspective but more important from the design side of
  things. I hope I have narrowed it down a bit. I am not expecting exact numbers (even
  though they would be nice), but if someone has researched this before I would be
  glad for some inside.\r\nThanks\r\nHenning"
comments:
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: What is the title of your thesis ?
  created: '2007-07-09 13:37:24'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: Henning, try searching the archives here, if you haven't already. I know this
    discussion has come up before, and it's a difficult one to know with any accuracy.
    Good luck.
  created: '2007-07-09 13:42:22'
- author:
    name: dehac
  body: 'No final title, yet. It''s more or less on the future of typeface design.
    Compared to the vast number of people using type, there is only a small number
    of those that decide what type will look like in the future. So I am trying to
    get an idea how many are out there. '
  created: '2007-07-09 13:49:02'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: '157'
  created: '2007-07-09 14:26:52'
- author:
    name: hitext
    picture: 109818
  body: 'There was a discussion in another expert circle 6 month ago. The result was:
    ca. 300.'
  created: '2007-07-09 14:58:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Purely a deep-gut guess: 100.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-09 15:06:52'
- author:
    name: Pieter van Rosmalen
    picture: 109564
  body: "When are you a typedesigner? When you designed a typeface once or when you
    design type for a living?\r\n\r\nPieter"
  created: '2007-07-09 16:22:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Although Henning's criteria don't necessarily fit my own definition\r\nof
    \"type designer\", he <em>was</em> pretty specific, and apparently what he's\r\nlooking
    into is neither one of those.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-09 16:27:16'
- author:
    name: Pieter van Rosmalen
    picture: 109564
  body: "Right.\r\nIn The Netherlands there are a lot of typedesigners who fit the
    definition of Henning.\r\nI think it\u2019s at least 30.\r\n\r\nPieter"
  created: '2007-07-09 16:49:08'
- author:
    name: dehac
  body: "@ hrant: What is your definition of a \u201Ctype designer\u201D? I had a
    hard time putting some specific criteria to it."
  created: '2007-07-09 16:51:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Pieter, I guess it depends on how you define \"junk\"...\r\nBut The Netherlands
    certainly has the highest number per capita.\r\n\r\nHenning, that question is
    too hard!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-09 16:53:21'
- author:
    name: dehac
  body: '@ Chris Keegan: could you please give me a hint how to find that old thread
    you mentioned above? I have searched quite a bit but couldn''t find it. Thanks.'
  created: '2007-07-09 17:26:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Doesn't the wiki have a listing?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-09 18:42:43'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Right, but how many people fit Henning's definition of serious? I think the
    range of answers is about right, and I'd guess it's closer to 100 than 300 (by
    Henning's definition), working in Latin-based languages.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-07-09 21:42:42'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Henning, what is the common denominator of art and design, in your opinion
    ?
  created: '2007-07-09 22:20:03'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Based on the definition of \"serious\" provided, I think the total is much
    larger than people are suggesting. Certainly, I'd say 300 is the wrong order of
    magnitude entirely. Especially since one of the criteria offered is that the person
    may not make their living designing type.\r\n\r\nI think the number is measured
    in thousands. If you look beyond the \"A-level\" names Carter, Hoefler, Berlow,
    Kobayashi, Schwartz,  (etc) you find a whole bastion of incredibly capable type
    designers. Chester, Crossgrove, Simonson, Darden, Ragan, Downer. Oops don't forget
    about the Thierry Puyfoulhoux's hiding out in the alps designing fonts to fuel
    their whitewater adventures. Dupr\xE9s cranking out types. Pingerras. Porchez.
    Hughes. Tankards. The Meaves from Mexico, and the Alejandro Lo Celsos from Argentina.
    Looking through something like the FontShop catalogue, I find myself looking at
    many of the names attached to very polished, and extensive families and say to
    myself: \"where do all these people come from?\" Beyond that there is yet a deeper
    layer of excellent typophiles who labor in relative anonymity. I can think of
    many here on Typophile who would fit the criteria proposed, but would probably
    not make most people's list. Miguel Hernandez? Eduardo Omine? Christian Robertson?
    Chris Lozos? Kris Sowersby? How many Keith Tams are there who are capable of making
    great type, but are busy doing other things? Or working behind the scenes like
    Miguel Sousa, Paul Hunt, Andy Clymer, Jean-Baptiste Lev\xE9e etc.\r\n\r\nNot to
    mention, non-latin type designers as Thomas mentions.\r\n\r\nOf course the trickiest
    criterion you propose is this: <em>Those that have the knowledge to create typefaces
    that can stand out among all the junk.</em> The quality of the type is only part
    of that equation.\r\n\r\nMy stratification of type names is mostly nonsense, but
    you get my point. I got past thirty without even thinking to include Slimbaugh,
    Speikerman, Stone, or Frutiger. This is a long list indeed, so I won't be accepting
    any challenges, but what kind of list wouldn't include Peter \"Mustardo\" Bruhn.
    Oh wait, he's not very serious."
  created: '2007-07-10 08:53:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The participants in Indie Fonts 3 give some idea of the diversity of backgrounds
    and intent against which any claim of 'serious\" must be judged. Given that there
    are different markets for fonts, there are different kinds of \"serious\"; and
    it does seem that \"serious\" means making the majority, or a significant amount,
    of one's income off type design -- although people who are headed in that direction
    may be quite dedicated.\r\n\r\nThe number of foundries represented by Myfonts
    (\"Welcomes 13 new foundries\" -- summer 07 newsletter) gives some idea of how
    many are doing business.\r\n\r\nAnd then there is the question of what constitutes
    \"type design\".\r\nThe way it stands at the moment, that term casts a broad net,
    including everything from one-person outfits creating original fonts, to technical
    production work for software companies.\r\n\r\nIf as I agree there are thousands
    of us, perhaps we should have our own organization, as our interests are not fully
    served by trade organizations that lump individual designers together with software
    giants."
  created: '2007-07-10 15:07:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I think the number is measured in thousands.\r\n\r\nAgain, it depends on
    what one means by \"can stand out among all the junk\". Many of the names you
    list have not done that in my view. In fact the way you're portraying things it's
    like the junk is in the minority!\r\n\r\n> perhaps we should have our own organization\r\n\r\nYes!
    And as I suggested years ago, it should be called \"TyD\".\r\nYou know, an unstoppable
    flow.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-10 15:12:21'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Nick: to suggest that Miguel is not a typeface designer simply because he
    works for Adobe is unfair. It seems to me the size and nature your employer has
    little to do with whether or not you are a type designer. I agree that seriousness
    can be measured many ways. Earning a significant portion of your income from type
    design could be a useful distinction in some cases. I purposely cast a wide net,
    because I consider myself a typeface designer. I make the majority of my living
    as a graphic designer, but more than 10% is typeface design. Still, I humbly submit
    that my ability to draw and sell orginial typefaces from scratch, should justify
    the title regardless of income precentages.\r\n\r\nHrant: Every single person
    I mentioned has developed and is able to \"develop a complex and satisfactory
    fontsystem.\" You may not like their types, but these people make quality typefaces
    that are useful in the real world."
  created: '2007-07-10 16:09:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You're not following Henning's criteria. That said, every person necessarily
    defines anything (like \"can stand out among all the junk\") on a personal level.
    So maybe my issue is that you're being way too generous, in effect going against
    the venerable maxim that \"90% of anything is junk\".  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-10 16:42:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>to suggest that Miguel is not a typeface designer simply because he works
    for Adobe is unfair.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's your inference, not mine!\r\nI was merely
    observing that in font production there may be division of labour, and it's all
    called type design.\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-10 17:09:36'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "He he. Another venerable maxim: don't try to read between the lines of a
    forum post. Appologies Nick. I agree, about division of labor all falling under
    the label type design. My point was: even if worker bees at the larger shops don't
    get their names on the final font, they are certainly capable of taking a design
    from concept to delivery and are type designers in their own right.\r\n\r\nHrant:
    \r\n\r\nI think I am following his criteria :-) I'd be curious if you'd call me
    a typeface designer? Or yourself? \r\n\r\nJunkiness is indeed personal and probably
    not the best criteria. I was just looking at the homepage at FontShop and saw
    this face I'd never seen before by a guy I'd never heard of: FF Speak designed
    by Jan Maack. Is it standout? I'd say probably not. Is it junk? I don't think
    so. Is it well done? Absolutely. To me, I'd have no trouble calling Jan Maack
    a Typeface Designer even though the world probably wont remember his typeface
    50 years from now. It's less about the label, and more about the capability. Plus
    I think there's still more than enough junk left over after you make room for
    the Jan Maack's of the world to to warrant your 90% maxim.\r\n\r\n- - - - - -\r\n\r\nUltimately
    who cares? It's a good question for the breaks between sessions at typecon, but
    good for little else. Everything I've said, boils down to this:\r\n\r\nI'm constantly
    surprised by the number of quality typefaces that I would be happy to use, designed
    by people I've never heard of. I'd like to think that type design is a craft practiced
    by a fraternity of a few hundred, all of whom I've heard of, but then I discover
    somebody jumped the velvet rope when I wasn't looking."
  created: '2007-07-10 19:30:02'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "The original question asked \"So I came upon this question: How many serious
    type designers are there in the world <EM>right now</EM>?\"\r\n\r\nSo in my carefully
    calculated answer I didn't include living designers who'd made a non-junk font
    a few years ago, but had moved on to different, more profitable things. I don\u2019t
    know if Jan Maack qualifies under this definition, but there are many living type
    designers who are retired, resting, on sabbatical or between jobs \"right now\".
    \r\n"
  created: '2007-07-10 19:42:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Randy, I mostly agree with you. Except for the part that you're abiding by
    Henning\u2019s criteria. :-)  And if it matters: I think both you and I are on
    the border of his criteria, because we can make non-junk type (although you might
    be further ahead than me on the ground, especially in Latin) but neither one of
    us has really proved excellence. That said, I'm realizing that my own definition
    of \"junky\" would not exclude as many people as I might have thought; although
    90% of people produce ho-hum ephemeral stuff, maybe \"junk\" is too unkind a label
    for all of them. OK then, I'm officially doubling my near-blind estimate to 200.
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-10 21:20:10'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "In my way of using the term, a typeface designer does some things that are
    significantly different than the production work that occupies most of Christopher
    Slye or Miguel Sousa's time, designing glyph shapes and setting the overall \"feel\"
    of the typeface.\r\n\r\nNow, I consider both Miguel and Christopher to be typeface
    designers, but that's because they've each designed a typeface (Calouste, Elmhurst)
    in addition to doing extensive production work. There are lots of other people
    who have done font production work at Adobe at one time or another who I don't
    think of as type designers. Invaluable members of the team, but not type designers.\r\n\r\nI
    also have what some would consider a high bar for quality in my head. So by my
    understanding of the original request:\r\n\r\n<cite>Those that have the knowledge
    to create typefaces that can stand out among all the junk. I am looking for the
    number of those people that would be able to develop a complex and satisfactory
    fontsystem. Not only from the technical and programming perspective but more important
    from the design side of things.</cite>\r\n\r\n... I don't think there's any way
    in heck that there are a thousand type designers in the world, even across all
    languages. I'd be surprised if there were more than 500 globally.\r\n\r\nI'm assuming
    \"complex and satisfactory fontsystem\" implies a range of weights and perhaps
    other variables (width, style) in a comprehensive system, including typographic
    goodies whether in separate fonts in \"old formats\" or in the same font in OpenType.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-07-10 22:28:55'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "I think the difference between our estimates is that I'm counting capability,
    whilst others are counting business cards. And so, the person who's designed one
    quality, mulitweight gets my vote, whilst others veto. I suppose there are many
    more people in the world who have rewired a house than there are electricians
    too, so I see your point.\r\n\r\nSo, I'll revise my estimate to the following:
    \r\nThere are typeface designers in the world."
  created: '2007-07-11 00:16:33'
- author:
    name: dehac
  body: "@ Randy: <cite>So, I\u2019ll revise my estimate to the following: There are
    typeface designers in the world.</cite>\r\n\r\nSuperb answer! I love it.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>I\u2019m
    assuming \u201Ccomplex and satisfactory fontsystem\u201D implies a range of weights
    and perhaps other variables (width, style) in a comprehensive system, including
    typographic goodies whether in separate fonts in \u201Cold formats\u201D or in
    the same font in OpenType.</cite>\r\n\r\nThats exactly what I meant. Thanks for
    clearifying and adding to the criteria. \r\n\r\n\u201Cright now\u201D doesn't
    exclude those \"type designers who are retired, resting, on sabbatical or between
    jobs\". I rather mean those that have the knowledge to create type. no matter
    if they are drawing curves at the moment or not.\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-11 10:05:57'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "What might be a more managable figure is \"How many people are earning a
    full time living in type design.\" This will take the number to to low double
    digits, I would think.\r\n\r\nAnd even then, is Thomas Phinney counted? He has
    designed fonts, but that is not the key part of his job, yet all of it is related
    to type."
  created: '2007-07-11 14:21:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Don, that question was the one concerning the werewolf thread I mentioned.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-11 14:45:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "{Edit caused a jump forward of many days. Annoying as h*ll.}\r\n\r\nThere
    was also a -long- thread some years ago that featured heated arguments between
    myself and one or more anonymous opponents, including one who I'm sure was the
    Mustang-driving werewolf of London.\r\n\r\n(I can't believe \"h*ll\" is censored.
    Danm religious puritans.}\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-11 14:47:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Hell isn't a swear word - what kind of fucking bible bashers run this operation?\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2007-07-11 15:59:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Ha ha - I just did that to see what would happen. Stupid bunts.\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2007-07-11 16:00:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Oh, by the way I make a living as a full time type designer.\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2007-07-11 16:02:06'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "It might be less contentious and more informative, to more people, to sort
    of zoom out from asking who is important or full-time or professional, and looking
    at the entire type culture or industry. Then compare that conglomeration to other
    industries or occupations, in terms of overall size. For instance, the type-making
    world is much much much smaller than the world of say, paving contractors, research
    scientists, or violinists (there's a sticky one! How many violinists are \"pro\"?)\r\n\r\nI
    think this is more interesting to non-type people; you can say, \"The type world
    is about as big as the puppetry world or the harpsichord-making world, and much
    smaller than the soccer world or the hang-gliding world\". \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-11 16:05:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Henning, you could put together a design brief and contact the 328 foundries
    represented by Myfonts, and see how many say it's within their capabilities. Many
    of these foundries have more than one type designer.\r\nOr use the Myfonts list
    of 2214 people: http://www.myfonts.com/person/index.html.\r\nFor freelancers who
    haven't published independently, you could go through a FontFont catalog (or contact
    FSI) and develop a list of their designers. Same thing for Linotype.\r\n\r\nNeil
    Macmillan, author of the \"A-Z of Type Designers\" might have some insights."
  created: '2007-07-11 16:47:32'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: ">>The type world is about as big as the puppetry world or the harpsichord-making
    world\r\n\r\nI just checked the US Census site to see if maybe \"type designer\"
    was listed under the  index of occupations. It wasn't. Even in the detailed <a
    href=\"http://www.census.gov/hhes/www/ioindex/cens_260_296.html\">breakdown</a>
    of \"Arts, Design, Entertainment\", where Millinery Designers and Sign Designers
    are referenced, it goes without mention. A look at the alphabetical <a href=\"http://www.census.gov/hhes/www/ioindex/occ_t.html\">breakdown</a>
    yielded some interesting type-related professions that managed to get listed:
    hand compositor, type cutter (they lump this in with a host of other machine operators),
    and typographer. I would guess that type designers would likely fall into one
    of these classifications: 27-021 (Commercial and industrial Designers), 27-024
    (Graphic Designers), or 27-029(all other Designers).\r\n\r\nBut that's only for
    the US, and couldn't figure out how to pull numbers out of this website. Furthermore,
    I'm not sure what kind of maintenance is regularly performed on there classification
    scheme, so you couldn't find the most obscure profession listed and then infer
    \"there are at least fewer type designers than Klingon translators/Penny Farthing
    BMXers/Autogyro mechanics in the US.\" \r\n\r\nEdit: <a href=\"http://www.bls.gov/\">The
    Bureau of Labor Statistics</a> might have been a better place to look, but I don't
    have time to figure the site out.  "
  created: '2007-07-11 17:04:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> design brief\r\n\r\nYou want people to admit they can only make \"junky\"
    fonts?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-11 17:19:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "A lot of people ask for ready answers at Typophile.\r\nI'm suggesting doing
    original research, and some methods.\r\nAs part of that, the researcher would
    have to structure the questions (and/or adjust the results) to make allowance
    for deceptive response.\r\nAs for \"junk\" -- it's a subjective concept -- and
    if some people don't subscribe to others' notion of utility, I doubt they would
    consider that an admission of junkufacture."
  created: '2007-07-11 17:41:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "My point is that Henning's criteria seem to preclude first-person judgment.\r\nAnd
    that's a good thing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-11 17:45:12'
- author:
    name: ybaggar
  body: "Maybe starting from typefaces could be another way to make a list since it
    allows dehac to make his own judgment about \"serious\".\r\nEvidently this would
    take some time but could be an interesting basis for later discussions."
  created: '2007-07-11 18:12:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Henning\u2019s criteria seem to preclude first-person judgment.\r\nAnd
    that\u2019s a good thing.</em>\r\n\r\nAgreed. Which is why I suggest presenting
    foundries with a brief \"to develop a complex and satisfactory fontsystem\".\r\nIt
    would presumably list production criteria such as styles, weights, encodings,
    features, as well as usage specifications -- a hypothetical publication might
    be a good \"client\".\r\nThe researcher would assess whether the foundry is adequate
    to the task or just b*llsh*tting, as a client would have to.\r\nHowever, that's
    not always easy, as many suppliers offer services they don't have in-house --
    which is quite legitimate; so some kind of \"first person judgement\" would be
    required at some point, to assess the junkiness factor.\r\n\r\nRather than presenting
    the brief as a hypothetical exercise, it might be better to ask if the foundry/designer
    has done such a project in the past -- either as a commission, or as a retail
    product -- and what the resulting typeface is.\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-11 18:25:49'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Among type designers listed at MyFonts who are known or are presumed to be
    alive, there approx. 680 people who have designed at least three typeface families,
    and among these, approx. 470 who have designed at least five families. \r\n\r\nNote
    that this only counts people whose fonts are listed at MyFonts (i.e. either on
    sale or listed for reference). Most notable font foundries are included, though
    some are not. The database is very incomplete. For example, John Hudson is only
    credited as having designed two families, which is obviously wrong, since only
    the old Tiro Typeworks-exclusive fonts are counted.  \r\n\r\nMyFonts sells very
    few non-European fonts. There are probably at least as many people who design
    Chinese, Japanese, Arabic, Indic, Thai etc. fonts that are only distributed in
    local markets, or people who do European-language typefaces but are not included
    in the MyFonts count. \r\n\r\nI think it would be fair to say that there around
    1,000 active type designers in the world. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-11 18:43:43'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Maybe I misread this, but shouldn't the criteria include a person who pays
    their bills with the money made from type design? Crap or not (which in itself
    is highly subjective) they are paying their bills. That should count for more
    than other things.
  created: '2007-07-11 19:08:41'
- author:
    name: ybaggar
  body: "\"But I kind of mean those that not necessarily live from creating type,
    but are very much devoted to type design.\"\r\n\r\nThere are lot of good designers
    that don't live from type design so i don't think it's a good criteria."
  created: '2007-07-11 19:21:17'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> hand compositor, type cutter (they lump this in with a host of other machine
    operators), and typographer.\r\n\r\nType cutter is probably the closest to a type
    designer. I suspect that there are fewer full time hand compositors out there
    than type designers (unless you stretch hand composition to using the hand to
    compose on a keyboard)."
  created: '2007-07-11 20:04:36'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"shouldn\u2019t the criteria include a person who pays their bills with
    the money made...\"\r\n\r\nOr maybe pays their own bills, and one other person's
    bills, at least? (Otherwise you get a lot students. yaknow;)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-11 23:13:32'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>...shouldn\u2019t the criteria include a person who pays their bills
    with the money made from type design?</cite>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/itc_check_5595.gif]\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.spiekermann.com/mten/2007/02/get_rich_through_typedesign.html\">Apologies
    to Prof. Spiekermann.</a>"
  created: '2007-07-11 23:23:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Profitable venture that must have been for Erik :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-12 00:36:49'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "<em>Or maybe pays their own bills, and one other person\u2019s bills, at
    least? (Otherwise you get a lot students. yaknow;)</em>\r\n\r\nBut then we are
    in the territory of defining foundries and not type designers. No? ;^)"
  created: '2007-07-12 00:40:26'
- author:
    name: gthompson
    picture: 109676
  body: "<em>What might be a more manageable figure is \u201CHow many people are earning
    a full time living in type design.\u201D This will take the number to to low double
    digits, I would think.</em>\r\n\r\nBy this criteria many historical designers
    would not qualify starting with Garamond who died deeply in debt. Bodoni wouldn't
    qualify either, nor Baskerville, nor even Gutenberg himself who made his money
    as a printer. Excoffon made his living as an advertising art director, as did
    Dwiggins for many years. There are a great many serious designers who didn't make
    their living designing type, but still produced important typefaces. Let's see,
    Tschichold, Cassandre, Eicher, Abrams, et al. Victor Gualtney doesn't make his
    living through type design, but there's no way he could not be considered serious.\r\n\r\nI
    think any measure of who's a type designer has to be based on intent. In fact
    those who are <em>not</em> making money at it might be considered to be more serious.
    Why else are they doing it?\r\n\r\nIt might be better to consider how many people
    in the world are serious about typography and the work back from there. Between
    memberships in various organizations there have to be several thousand with a
    large percentage of them type designers. \r\n\r\nGeorge \r\nI felt bad because
    I had no shoes, until I met a man who had no Bodoni"
  created: '2007-07-12 02:48:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Ives made a living as an insurance agent, not from his compositions. His
    heirs may have though :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-12 03:33:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "George, right on, all around.\r\n\r\nI would add: anybody serious about culture
    cannot be serious about money.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-12 04:11:32'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "Just a rather weird look at the question, but technically anyone who earns
    a living from writing (not books, but actual script) is a type designer. Everytime
    they write it is different and therefore they have designed that type.\r\n\r\nNone
    serious type designers therfore would number in the billions."
  created: '2007-07-12 14:18:54'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Okay, that last one loses me. First, are there that many people who make
    a living writing script? A very few calligraphers perhaps, but not billions. \r\n\r\nAnd
    that doesn't even touch on your thesis that handwriting is type design. I don't
    want to get into that."
  created: '2007-07-12 14:21:10'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "Never said that many were earning a living, said there were billions who
    were NOT serious. Everytime you write, it is slightly different and you have therefore,
    by the unspoken standards of a number of companies, created an original design.
    Nobody said it had to be digital, that was assumed (probably rightly so). \r\n\r\nHandwriting
    is type design, of the old type. \r\n\r\nWhat about professional store sign painters,
    greeting and wedding card designers, etc.. ? \r\n\r\n***Unspoken, as dont want
    to reawaken an old chestnut of an arguement regarding the propensity of some companies
    who seem to have a myriad of typefaces, all identical to each others, yet are
    individually original***"
  created: '2007-07-12 14:39:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Handwriting is type design\r\n\r\nAbsolutely not.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-12 15:00:22'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "Please expand.\r\nPlease change my opinion and mind, logically.\r\n\r\nIf
    I write something, then digitise it, have I not designed a typeface ? An original
    typeface ? If I offer it for sale, and it sells, is this not type design ?\r\n\r\nWorking
    on the premise that what I have stated is wrong, there are a lot of typefaces
    out there, based on handwriting, that are not designed. What are they ?\r\n\r\nAs
    far as I can see, the rules and restrictions placed upon the design of the alphabet,
    while sensible, are the rules that a few have taken upon themselves to instigate.
    The alphabet has been there for many a year longer than these people, and my concept
    of how I draw, or design three lines to make an A, is one I determine myself,
    while observing an aesthetical appearance about it. If I like it, and others choose
    to use it, who has the right to tell me it is wrong and incorrect ? The rules,
    then become a mere guideline to aesthetics, and not strict rules at all.\r\n\r\nThis
    bit edited out.\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-12 15:20:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Typotheticals, there is first an issue of definition. I believe the way the
    words are most often used by careful writers in this field is that type, lettering
    and writing mean three different things. \r\n\r\nType--or better a 'font'--is
    a set of templates of letters that are used repeatedly in any order to compose
    words seen on paper, the screen, solid letters put on a building, etc.\r\n\r\nLettering
    is the act of building up letters by hand to produce words. \r\n\r\nWriting is
    the act of moving an instrument by hand to produce a moving front that leaves
    letters and words behind.  \r\n\r\nThe question of how much type should be influenced
    by writing is another issue.\r\n\r\nOh and and to answer your question, it is
    possible to turn a piece of handwriting into a font, but the two are defined as
    different things--one writing the other a font. And they are different as the
    font will contain a limited set of letters that will be reproduced according to
    the instructions in the software. \r\n\r\nEdit: for clarity's sake please reply
    in another post, rather than an edit. "
  created: '2007-07-12 15:20:40'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "While I see your point, I still would feel the urge to disagree and argue
    the view. While one is fluid and constantly changing, the other static dependant
    upon its coding, are we not expanding and changing the medium to allow the second
    to imitate the first ? Are we not then attempting to turn the electronic form
    \ into a pale imitation of the physical, to put it one way, turning back to the
    original form ?\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-12 15:26:16'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "Sorry, will post new ones. Does tend to mix the lines of discussion up a
    bit. There will be a few scratched heads tomorrow.\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-12 15:28:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Let me have one more bash at this. Guttenberg produced type in which each
    letter, say 'A', was the mechanical reproduction of a single design, stamped into
    a matrix. These predetermined, nearly identical letters were then arranged into
    words. That's type: arranging of pre-determined letters into words. \r\n\r\nAnd
    that puts different demands on the crafter of the words. In particular, every
    letter has to fit with every other letter that it might be next to in the languages
    contemplated for use. \r\n\r\nThe letterer or writer of words can adjust each
    letter ad hoc to suit the letters on either side, as well as above and below,
    and the margins. \r\n\r\nSo type design has different demands on it than lettering
    or writing, even though all are created by the hand and the eye.  "
  created: '2007-07-12 15:30:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Ok, I just saw your latest two that appear above my last. \r\n\r\nYes, open
    type script faces are attempting to recover some of the flexibility of writing
    and lettering. But they are still more limited, and will always be, because they
    have to be predetermined by rules, and not done by creative problem-solving on
    the spot. \r\n\r\nBut the more important thing is that type has, I believe, proved
    superior as far as readability for extended text. Taking months or years to get
    the letters optimal for readability, then reproduce them, has improved readability
    over hand written text. \r\n\r\nThat's still not true for aesthetics. Hand lettering--either
    on paper or the computer screen--regularly beats type for logos, titles, etc. "
  created: '2007-07-12 15:42:42'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "I know what you are saying, and it is sensible, but... I think I may stop
    this as it probably will get a bit silly, its after midnight here.\r\n\r\nI got
    to agree something that this pushes. It supports your side, and that is it really
    irritates me that when you get those eternal \"what font is this ?\" for anything
    that resembles letters. Technology has not only lowered the standard of writing,
    it has also lowered the ability to distinguish between a digital construction
    and a physical construction.\r\n\r\nWith the limited (yes there is one) scope
    for the production of new typefaces, how many type designers will there be in
    20 years ?\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-12 15:47:01'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "Aesethetics to mean getting all the base lines in order, regular heights,
    even spacing. \r\n\r\nYes, Opentype is limited and will never come to fully resemble
    the handwritten word, but who knows what technology advance comes next ? "
  created: '2007-07-12 15:54:24'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "Just occured to me. If we had an Opentype with the multiple master feature
    encompassed within, and a random number generator (probably based on the clock)we
    would end up with basically a typeface that would be near endlessly original each
    time. Each character could have up to 1000 variations.\r\nWouldnt be great variations,
    but still variations.\r\n\r\nPretty close to handritten words.\r\n\r\nGot out
    of bed for this rubbish, probably should have stayed there.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-12 16:17:06'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: Isn't that the idea behind <a href="http://www.letterror.com/foundry/beowolf/index.html">Beowolf</a>?
  created: '2007-07-12 16:45:26'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"anybody serious about culture cannot be serious about money\"\r\n I'm serious
    about culture and so I'm saving up to see the Amber Room. Isn't Acquisition of
    Culture the biggest industry in the world, after food, shelter and Prada? (all
    of which contain cultural expression in their choice...)\r\n\r\n\" a random number
    generator (probably based on the clock)\"\r\nSorry, these are considered dangerous
    (i.e. disallowed in TT), please do not request basing anything in a font's behavior
    on random, or clock, much less the two at once, you subversive.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-07-13 02:39:05'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Apologies to Prof. Spiekermann.\"\r\n\r\nI just looked closely, and the
    check is almost 17 years old. \r\nToday, that'd be worth around $5.00, or enough
    for a hair cut in this case. \r\nWhat's the problem?"
  created: '2007-07-13 02:43:34'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: ":0)\r\n\r\nSubversive ? More like a Submersive mind. Plumbing the depths.\r\n\r\nThanks.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-13 03:33:14'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Today, that\u2019d be worth around $5.00, or enough for a hair cut
    in this case.</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m not sure if that means you live next door
    to the least expensive barber shop in America, or if you\u2019re making a joke
    about Erik\u2019s lack of hair. "
  created: '2007-07-13 04:17:33'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> Today, that\u2019d be worth around $5.00, or enough for a hair cut in this
    case.\r\n\r\nYou could get several hairs cut for $5 around here, but if you want
    them all cut, it probably will run $12 at a cheap place, and up from that."
  created: '2007-07-13 14:04:59'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: Wow I got a wopping $30.00 from Ascender Corp.. I wonder if it's for Comic
    Sans!!
  created: '2007-07-13 14:15:48'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: I'd bet that some of the prolific font-makers who are doing quite well with
    their own font company will probably not comment. It would be interesting to hear
    the other side of the story.
  created: '2007-07-13 14:42:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Vince! LOL!!!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-13 14:58:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>prolific font-makers who are doing quite well with their own font company
    will probably not comment.</em>\r\n\r\nYou may have missed it, the <em>\xE9minences
    grises</em> are apt to be somewhat cryptic. "
  created: '2007-07-13 15:11:53'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: It occurs to me that a few designers careers might have gone a little differently
    if Myfonts had been around during the wild and wooly '90s. I remember a lot of
    people grousing about their paltry commissions.
  created: '2007-07-13 15:39:14'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: Well I bet the Holly and Dave Mingers are making more out of bancomicsans
    derivations.
  created: '2007-07-13 16:00:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I remember a lot of people grousing about their paltry commissions.\"\r\n\r\nMyself
    included. \r\nI laughed (cried really) with everyone else at the royalties I was
    getting. \r\nToday, we send royaty checks that people want to cash. Everybody
    gets checks on huge %s compared to back then, \r\n(but I don't get any 'cause
    I thought of it.)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-07-13 21:53:16'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> Today, we send royaty checks that people want to cash...(but I don\u2019t
    get any \u2019cause I thought of it.)\r\n\r\nIs this to say you started Myfonts?"
  created: '2007-07-14 06:35:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "More like Font Bureau.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-14 16:03:03'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Wow I got a wopping $30.00 from Ascender Corp.. I wonder if it\u2019s for
    Comic Sans!!\r\n\r\nProbably a clerical error or for something else, as those
    royalties belong to Microsoft. "
  created: '2007-07-14 16:18:58'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "I was hoping he started Myfonts (Font Bureau has a classy line-up, and I
    don't mean to downplay that retailer) because I have never heard how it got started.
    Typowiki doesn't say much except that it is owned by Bitstream. If they started
    it, my hat is off to them. I have always thought that Myfonts is a great equalizer,
    giving the 'everyman' designer an outlet with fair return.\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-14 16:21:58'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Is this to say you started Myfonts?\r\n\r\n>More like Font Bureau.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    both. David likely had the idea while at Bitstream but had to wait for Al Gore
    to invent the interwebs before his dream could become reality. He probably left
    a hidden note behind the liquor cabinet when he left. "
  created: '2007-07-14 16:23:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Was Makambo the first \"everyone welcome\" e-commerce font retailer?\r\nI
    was with them until they closed down (2001), at which point Myfonts contacted
    all Makambo foundries and I moved over."
  created: '2007-07-14 19:24:32'
date: '2007-07-09 13:13:49'
node_type: forum
title: How many typeface designers are there in the world?

---
