---
author:
  name: ebensorkin
  picture: 109987
body: "Another obscure typographic corner: [[Arrow|Arrows]]!\r\n\r\nI am putting a
  new round of revisions into Software Developer and I am taking Kent Lew's advice
  and adding some arrows to it.\r\n\r\nAny advice? \r\n\r\nHave you used arrows in
  your work before? \r\n\r\nApart from signs at airports I can't recall seeing their
  use. Do chemists' use them? Electricians?\r\n\r\nCertainly I see how they can be
  designed within a family style etc but what about their placement in the glyph?
  For instance: Other than the other arrows what glyphs should they work well with?
  A lower case o? Or the Numerals? Or Parentheses? Actually I see it could vary from
  arrow to arrow. The round ones vs the straight. The spilt vs. the whole...\r\n\r\nThanks!"
comments:
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I recently used arrows in a image-heavy document to point to illustrations
    (rather than \u2018above left\u2019, \u2018above\u2019 etc.) I needed them to
    work with Meta Plus Book and wanted something a little bolder than the body copy
    at about em height and to the 8 major points of the compass \u2013 in the end
    I used Wingdings, each arrow with slight positive and negative baseline shift,
    but would have preferred something a little lighter, they were mainly adjacent
    to non-aligning numerals but were in the main flow of the text so had to integrate
    with upper and lower case characters as well. I seem to remember Foundry Gridnik
    had some useful arrows.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-07-10 21:16:59'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: I've done the same thing as Tim, using arrows to indicate which cutline goes
    with which image. I've always built the arrows in Illustrator and imported them.
    Apart from Pi and dingbat fonts, I wouldn't consider looking for arrows in my
    font sets.
  created: '2007-07-10 22:39:58'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: So in your use you were looking for something that aligned to text... yes?
    Interesting. Thanks!
  created: '2007-07-10 22:40:41'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I used the font Geometric Arrows for years. Like this:\r\n\r\nsaturday july
    12 -> el rey theatre\r\n\r\nI now use the above combination (tweaked a bit) -
    but yes, I have a use for arrows."
  created: '2007-07-11 03:57:58'
- author:
    name: Shu
    picture: 109463
  body: "Hi Eben,\r\n\r\nI am a fan of arrows. I am constantly making custom arrows
    (mostly for web designs these days). They are usually used for links or navigation
    clarity. It would be nice to have a set of arrows for different purposes. Often
    I set the size of the to the same x-height as its related typeface. But, its all
    about the style of the arrow. It needs to match the design aesthetic that is being
    created for the site as a whole. That is why multiple arrow styles would be great.
    I know I ask a lot . . .\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-11 06:11:52'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Shu, Paul, more interesting still! What about multiple arrow forms within
    the same 'style'? That seems more likely in a single font. Unless you build an
    arrow only font... \r\n\r\nDo you want to do that Shu?\r\n\r\nMaybe I can post
    an examples of the 'standard' forms in Unicode later."
  created: '2007-07-11 08:39:57'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: Arrows are used extensively in mathematical typesetting. Generally boring,
    thin arrows that balance with other math symbols. You need left, right, up and
    down, and angled would be nice too. An extension that will attach to the left
    and rights is good (the em dash will do if it fits) because sometimes you need
    to place a formula over (and under?) an arrow, and thus need to grow it.
  created: '2007-07-11 14:25:12'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/storm/sebastian-arrows/light-light/charmap.html\r\n\r\nJust
    noticed that, fittingly, Sebastian has an arrows supplement in a variety of heights
    and for each weight.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-07-11 14:35:23'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: I'm with Paul. I've used them this same way.
  created: '2007-07-11 17:57:48'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I use InDesign's arrow-maker, which contains all the traditional arrow designs
    I need.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-07-11 23:33:50'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Given David's comments it sounds like the primary reason to include arrows
    ( to the extent that there is one ) would be to support specific math functions...
    All other uses are essentially clip art* related rather than typographic in nature.
    I can imagine that an arrow which matches the chosen font might be good to have
    as well but I suspect that custom arrows will be used more in part because the
    arrows in a font are harder to access  ( I guess you could create a font in the
    Opentype set called 'symbols'....) but mostly because I think graphic designers
    will usually want something impossible to anticipate. In any event it probably
    isn't going to pay to sweat this very often even if you are just supporting Math
    use.\r\n\r\n* This probably sounds more dismissive & pejorative than I intended...\r\n\r\nJames,
    Shu, Paul - What arrows would you want to match within a type face? I am guessing
    12, 3, 6 & 9 o'clock and the points in between. Anything else? \r\n\r\nTim, nice
    find.\r\n\r\nDon, would you expand on your comments?"
  created: '2007-07-12 00:07:31'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "For what it's worth, here are some arrows that I have designed recently.
    I try to harmonise the arrow with the typeface, and now (after Feijoa) align them
    to the cap dimensions. I don't italicise arrows. There are also 45\xB0 arrows
    as well.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arrows_4091.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    also do the opentype calt trick by subbing -> with arrowright or -^ with arrowdown
    for instance. Quite handy!\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-07-12 03:14:36'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Nice tips Kris! Thanks!\r\n\r\nHave you done any math-arrows?\r\n\r\nI also
    thought I would post this:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arrows_6422.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\nso
    that we could be specific. \r\n\r\nBTW are these all the code points that are
    relevant or are their others lurking around?"
  created: '2007-07-12 03:46:10'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Christ, look at all those arrows! I haven't done any Math arrows, I am not
    even too sure what constitutes a 'complete' Math glyphset. That would be interesting
    to know. What do people setting Math actually use & need?\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-07-12 03:49:11'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Just noticed that, fittingly, Sebastian has an arrows supplement in a
    variety of heights and for each weight.</em>\r\n\r\nMany of Storm's OpenType fonts
    contain these arrows. I haven't had a chance to use them yet, but it's nice to
    know they're in there. Also, Andrij Shevchenko's <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/andrijtype/zion-train/\">Zion
    Train</a> includes arrows."
  created: '2007-07-12 04:04:30'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "My sense is that some of these arrows are probably Math, some for Boxes (
    this side up [ 21EB? ]), some for electrical /construction work [ 21DE? 21AF?],
    some for maps [21DF?] etc. But this is conjecture only. It would be great to Know?
    Maybe Adam Knows... \r\n\r\nKris, what code points do you use for arrows? Or is
    it all a glyph sub thing? If so, that would be cool too frankly!\r\n\r\nMy guess
    is also that Sebastian's arrows are on , ABCDEF etc. Are Storm's?"
  created: '2007-07-12 04:21:17'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'hmmm, the arrows in sebastian pro are accessed via the ''ornm'' feature and
    are mapped to letters: i''m guessing the same as set up in the arrow supplement
    font. i''m adding a small set of arrows (8 in all) to a project i''m currently
    working on and using the Unicode points u+2190 to u+2191.'
  created: '2007-07-12 04:55:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Isn't this a waste of time?\r\nIn many years of advertising and design work,
    the only arrows I ever used came on the end of line rules in layout software,
    not in fonts.\r\nPerhaps there is a place for them in math fonts or dingbat fonts,
    but not in general purpose fonts.\r\nHowever, I note the above postings of Paul
    and James mentioning what is a genuine usage  -- but surely there's only one arrow
    that's needed for that, the basic left to right?"
  created: '2007-07-12 05:09:30'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> but surely there\u2019s only one arrow that\u2019s needed for that,
    the basic left to right?</cite>\r\n\r\nDon has not told us. We need more info.
    \r\n\r\nI have suspended my judgement about this being a waste of time - but I
    suspect that you are correct about the real utility of this. Still, I am interested
    to see if my assumption holds up - or not.\r\n\r\nAnd in the meantime I have been
    very interested to hear what designers and type makers have had to say.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    Shu & I can make a world beating Arrow font in the future..."
  created: '2007-07-12 06:26:47'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "In terms of math fonts, the code page Eben listed looks comprehensive. The
    AMS (American Mathematical Society) financed a math set (2 fonts) to supplement
    the basic math characters provided in TeX (3 fonts). The AMS font that holds the
    arrows is here. http://www.micropress-inc.com/fonts/brmath/brf10.htm#font\r\n\r\n\r\nThe
    basic math characters are in Adobe Lucida Math font (among others) http://www.adobe.com/type/browser/F/LUCM/F_LUCM-10005002.html\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-12 14:18:07'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Thanks Don!
  created: '2007-07-12 14:31:27'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Maybe Shu & I can make a world beating Arrow font in the future...\"\r\n\r\nI'm
    all aquiver."
  created: '2007-07-12 20:51:33'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Don\u2014so those dashes & squiggles & lines & wacky brackets in [[http://www.micropress-inc.com/fonts/brmath/brf10.htm#font|this
    font]] and in [[http://www.micropress-inc.com/fonts/brmath/brf13.htm#font|this
    font]] are all that would be needed to set complex math?\r\n\u2014K\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-12 21:33:58'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'I don''t know how you will see these, but look at what''s included in the
    new Vista font Cambria; it''s packed with math operators as well as a lot of arrows.
    This doesn''t answer Eben''s question of course. '
  created: '2007-07-12 21:41:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> This doesn\u2019t answer Eben\u2019s question of course. </cite>\r\n\r\nNo,
    but it's interesting. Thanks!\r\n\r\n<cite> I\u2019m all aquiver. </cite>\r\n\r\nYeah
    that's kinda what I meant too. I guess I didn't supply the needed emoticon...
    {Shrug} Still, maybe Shu can sell it to Veer. Although I agree, it probably does
    make more sense as a clip art project though - if at all. \r\n\r\n<cite>  all
    that would be needed </cite>\r\n\r\nHa! Is that all? ;-) Actually it wouldn't
    be that hard to make - but you would want to have a math guy/gal to take em for
    a spin I think... And I doubt that it is a super hot market. That said I don't
    LOVE what I am seeing.\r\n\r\nIt certainly looks like some of my guesses about
    use were quite wrong!"
  created: '2007-07-12 22:48:26'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "As kris illustrated, it would be nice to have complementary set of arrows
    with fonts for use in wayfinding signage, at least covering codepoints 2190\u20132199.
    When I was a signcutter I had to use the arrow generator included in FlexiSign,
    which was adequte enough, but always produced rather generic results. They served
    as directional pointers, but never really harmonized with the type. "
  created: '2007-07-12 23:34:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> at least covering codepoints 2190\u20132199 </cite>\r\n\r\nThese are
    the eight I think Kent was advocating for."
  created: '2007-07-12 23:39:50'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: There's ten of them actually, counting the horizontal and vertical double-headed
    arrows in the middle of the sequence.
  created: '2007-07-12 23:46:29'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Kris\r\n\r\nYep, all that is used in math. But that does not mean that it
    is all you would need to set math. Mathematicians are notorious for trying to
    come up with new symbols and such. But those are the basics that will cover the
    majority of math setting.\r\n\r\nWhen a researcher comes up with a new formula,
    he/she often wants a special character to represent a certain important variable.
    First used are Greek characters ... you will be familiar with the large Sigma
    used for summation, and pi used for that number.\r\n\r\nThey also will use script
    characters (l is common to avoid confusion with 1, although a good designer should
    have chosen fonts where there is no confusion), Hebrew characters, Fracktur characters,
    and the outlined characters shown.\r\n\r\nThe symbols are variations of basic
    symbols. For instance, the less than or equal to sign can have one or two lines
    under it, or one or two curved lines, each meaning different things to different
    mathematicians. I'd tell you what they mean, but I can't. I just typeset the stuff
    (back then). I didn't understand it."
  created: '2007-07-13 14:13:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>it would be nice to have complementary set of arrows with fonts for use
    in wayfinding signage,</em>\r\n\r\nIt would be nice to have a lot of things in
    fonts. I have recently been persuaded to include several historic Cyrillic characters
    in a retail font, why, I don't know, as there are probably 2 or 3 people in the
    world who might use such a thing, and they are not font buyers (I don't expect
    those who persuaded me to include the characters to buy the fonts either) --however,
    it is entertaining for a type designer to investigate such novelties, and we are
    \"completists\" by nature.\r\n\r\nThe WGL4 which includes arrows and boxes does
    so, I believe, because it covers four Unicode groupings, one of which includes
    arrows and boxes, for no particular reason, other than they might as well be grouped
    somewhere.\r\n\r\nWhat is the correlation between what is useful to font buyers
    and what is in fonts? \r\nThis has been cocked up digitally from day one, as you
    can tell just by looking at your keyboard.\r\n\r\nThese days, wayfinding systems
    don't use serif fonts, conventional wisdom being that these are less legible and
    therefore unsuitable, so Kris, why bother? Why not add something equally useless,
    such as a unicase or Bold Italic Small Caps?\r\n\r\nIf your typeface really is
    designed for a specific use, then some special characters which address that usage
    can act as a \"gimmick\" to draw attention to that and position the typeface in
    the marketplace/collective conscious. Otherwise, they are a distraction and a
    dilution, and may even be counter-productive by suggesting inappropriate usage.
    \r\n\r\nThe astrological symbols in Josh Darden's Corundum were spot on, a genuine
    novelty in a font (quaint ct and st ligs have been done), but appropriate to the
    genre. So they serve a purpose, even if those who buy the font don't use them.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-13 14:54:32'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "<cite>These days, wayfinding systems don\u2019t use serif fonts, conventional
    wisdom being that these are less legible and therefore unsuitable, so Kris, why
    bother?</cite>\r\n\r\nBasic NSEW arrows whose dimensions and stroke widths match
    the rest of the font are surely nice to have, rather than having to use an approximation
    from a dingbat font. Especially in a multi-weight family.\r\n\r\nAlso, assuming
    the kind of arrow made from 3 straight lines meeting at a point (surely there's
    a term for this?) the terminals might be square, diagonal or round to better match.
    More esoteric display faces (I'm thinking dot matrix) would also benefit."
  created: '2007-07-13 17:11:33'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "This variant of the arrow is part of the Arrival font. There were almost
    30 different versions in this series and I used all the arrow directions. But
    as mentioned, wayfinding is a special use  situation.\r\n\r\nhttp://i6.photobucket.com/albums/y234/jupiterboy/3N.png"
  created: '2007-07-13 18:21:20'
- author:
    name: Shu
    picture: 109463
  body: "<em>\u201CMaybe Shu & I can make a world beating Arrow font in the future...\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nDavid
    - I am in! We'll talk. I'm sure I can squeeze in a few minutes during TypeCon.
    Sometime after that party and sometime before that other party. I'll have to check
    with my people..."
  created: '2007-07-13 18:38:20'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite>There\u2019s ten of them actually</cite>\r\n\r\nWhoops. Yep. It must
    have been the single headed variety that Kent had in mind.\r\n\r\nNick, Elliot,
    nice points!\r\n\r\n<cite>These days, wayfinding systems don\u2019t use serif
    fonts, conventional wisdom</cite>\r\n\r\nI have seen more & more shifting away
    from that over the last 10 years although in general that does seem to be the
    dominant outlook\r\n\r\nJames, your example makes me think that for the 8 single
    directions it might be nice to offer the arrow in a circle as a discretionary
    alt.\r\n\r\nThe thing about arrows is that in general they are pretty easy to
    make in the sense that unlike a b to d ( or n to m even) where you really do have
    to think a bit more a left arrow really is just a reverse of the right. Fancy
    Arrows with 3 shafts, flat or v shaped backs, or double heads & so on are something
    else again as are arrows in a monospace. \r\n\r\nAlso, Hunting around for the
    arrows not covered by Don's link to Math Arrows  I found these:\r\n\r\nU+21DE
    \  \u21DE   upwards arrow with double stroke So 1.1\r\naka page up\r\n\r\nU+21DF
    \  \u21DF   downwards arrow with double stroke So 1.1\r\naka page down\r\n\r\nU+21EA
    \  \u21EA   upwards white arrow from bar So 1.1\r\naka caps lock\r\n\r\nU+21EB
    \  \u21EB   upwards white arrow on pedestal So 3.0\r\naka level 2 lock\r\n\r\nU+21EC
    \  \u21EC   upwards white arrow on pedestal with horizontal bar So 3.0\r\naka
    caps lock\r\n\r\nU+21ED   \u21ED   upwards white arrow on pedestal with vertical
    bar So 3.0\r\naka numerics lock\r\n\r\nU+21EE   \u21EE   upwards white double
    arrow So 3.0\r\naka level 3 select\r\n\r\nU+21EF   \u21EF   upwards white double
    arrow on pedestal So 3.0\r\naka level 3 lock\r\n\r\nU+21F0  \u21F0 rightwards
    white arrow from wall So ON\r\naka group lock\r\n\r\nU+21F1  \u21F1 north west
    arrow to corner So ON\r\naka home\r\n\r\nU+21F2  \u21F2 south east arrow to corner
    So ON\r\naka end\r\n\r\nU+21F3  \u21F3 up down white arrow So ON\r\naka scrolling\r\n\r\nU+232B
    \  \u232B   erase to the left So ON 1.1\r\naka delete to the left key\r\n\r\nU+2326
    \  \u2326   erase to the right So ON 1.1\r\naka delete to the right key\r\n\r\nU+23CE
    \  \u23CE   return symbol So ON 3.2\r\n* may be shown with either hollow or filled
    glyph\r\nref U+21B5   \u21B5   downwards arrow with corner leftwards (Arrows)\r\n\r\nU+23CF
    \  \u23CF   eject symbol So ON 4.0\r\n* UI symbol to eject media\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-13 20:44:52'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "There's a party over here. \r\n\r\nThere's a party over there...\r\n\r\nShu,
    ... After all having spent so much time with type folk isn't it time for a font
    of your own?  ;-)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-13 21:13:11'
- author:
    name: Shu
    picture: 109463
  body: "Maybe. Maybe. There are only so many hours in the day. I am sometimes shocked
    at my own schedule, especially during the ramp up the TypeCon. Now that I think
    of it, back when I was in school I took a intensive type design class with Max
    Kisman.\r\nI did create an experimental \"font\" made from cutting out letters
    in latex stretching them out with pins and the digitizing them in FontLab. Oh,
    those were the days. Experimental design just for the fun of it.\r\n\r\nActually,
    I think it was that class when Max first suggested I volunteer for TypeCon. The
    rest is history...\r\n\r\n[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/18918759@N00/sets/72157600799282885/|Type
    Design - flickr style]]"
  created: '2007-07-13 21:42:13'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "A lot of this lost me but if you included arrows in a font and they matched
    the vibe - there's a good chance I would use them for design, not math. I use
    this combination all the time: ->\r\n\r\nAlso my needs are simple - a forward
    pointing arrow would do it.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-07-13 21:46:29'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "There are situations where matching a decorative theme is more important
    than strict legibility in wayfinding, e.g., amusement park signage. If anything,
    Victorian wood types dominate in many parks, and those look quite dismal with
    generic arrows.\r\n\r\nBut yes, even there in more utilitarian areas off the main
    public paths they revert to a common sans face for directional signs."
  created: '2007-07-13 21:47:08'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "<cite>These days, wayfinding systems don\u2019t use serif fonts, conventional
    wisdom being that these are less legible and therefore unsuitable, so Kris, why
    bother? </cite>\r\n\r\nAs a practising graphic designer & typographer I find matching
    arrows extremely useful. They also don't take very long to draw, so I find it
    appropriate to include them. Why would you assume that arrows are only useful
    for wayfinding?\r\n\r\n<cite>Why not add something equally useless, such as a
    unicase or Bold Italic Small Caps?</cite>\r\n\r\nI also find Bold Italic SC useful,
    although the occasions to use them are rare. If you're going to do something,
    might as well do it properly! \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-13 23:21:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Why would you assume that arrows are only useful for wayfinding?</em>\r\n\r\nBecause
    I never use them myself, and because I never come across them in use!\r\n\r\nI
    could be mistaken, but will only be convinced if a few real-world examples are
    posted.\r\n\r\nThe printer's fist is, I suspect, more useful, (the Calgary Typophiles
    have one in their recent poster -- see their thread).\r\n\r\n<em>If you\u2019re
    going to do something, might as well do it properly!</em>\r\n\r\nMy sentiments
    too, but it's a question of priorities.\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-13 23:53:44'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Nick, a printers fist is a pointing finger - right?\r\n\r\nAlso I have more
    code for us.\r\n\r\nThese arrows are not computer input symbols or math symbols.
    They are dingbat arrows.  A whole new code area...\r\n\r\nI am putting them in
    just so the record is more complete, to potentially help avoid confusion - some
    of these seem pretty close to the math symbols; and of course for the those \u201Ccompletists\u201D
    lurking among us. \r\n\r\nDingbats block\r\n\u2794\tU+2794: HEAVY WIDE-HEADED
    RIGHTWARDS ARROW\r\n\u2798\tU+2798: HEAVY SOUTH EAST ARROW\r\n\u2799\tU+2799:
    HEAVY RIGHTWARDS ARROW\r\n\u279A\tU+279A: HEAVY NORTH EAST ARROW\r\n\u279B\tU+279B:
    DRAFTING POINT RIGHTWARDS ARROW\r\n\u279C\tU+279C: HEAVY ROUND-TIPPED RIGHTWARDS
    ARROW\r\n\u279D\tU+279D: TRIANGLE-HEADED RIGHTWARDS ARROW\r\n\u279E\tU+279E: HEAVY
    TRIANGLE-HEADED RIGHTWARDS ARROW\r\n\u279F\tU+279F: DASHED TRIANGLE-HEADED RIGHTWARDS
    ARROW\r\n\u27A0\tU+27A0: HEAVY DASHED TRIANGLE-HEADED RIGHTWARDS ARROW\r\n\u27A1\tU+27A1:
    BLACK RIGHTWARDS ARROW\r\n\u27A2\tU+27A2: THREE-D TOP-LIGHTED RIGHTWARDS ARROWHEAD\r\n\u27A3\tU+27A3:
    THREE-D BOTTOM-LIGHTED RIGHTWARDS ARROWHEAD\r\n\u27A4\tU+27A4: BLACK RIGHTWARDS
    ARROWHEAD\r\n\u27A5\tU+27A5: HEAVY BLACK CURVED DOWNWARDS AND RIGHTWARDS ARROW\r\n\u27A6\tU+27A6:
    HEAVY BLACK CURVED UPWARDS AND RIGHTWARDS ARROW\r\n\u27A7\tU+27A7: SQUAT BLACK
    RIGHTWARDS ARROW\r\n\u27A8\tU+27A8: HEAVY CONCAVE-POINTED BLACK RIGHTWARDS ARROW\r\n\u27A9\tU+27A9:
    RIGHT-SHADED WHITE RIGHTWARDS ARROW\r\n\u27AA\tU+27AA: LEFT-SHADED WHITE RIGHTWARDS
    ARROW\r\n\u27AB\tU+27AB: BACK-TILTED SHADOWED WHITE RIGHTWARDS ARROW\r\n\u27AC\tU+27AC:
    FRONT-TILTED SHADOWED WHITE RIGHTWARDS ARROW\r\n\u27AD\tU+27AD: HEAVY LOWER RIGHT-SHADOWED
    WHITE RIGHTWARDS ARROW\r\n\u27AE\tU+27AE: HEAVY UPPER RIGHT-SHADOWED WHITE RIGHTWARDS
    ARROW\r\n\u27AF\tU+27AF: NOTCHED LOWER RIGHT-SHADOWED WHITE RIGHTWARDS ARROW\r\n\u27B1\tU+27B1:
    NOTCHED UPPER RIGHT-SHADOWED WHITE RIGHTWARDS ARROW\r\n\u27B2\tU+27B2: CIRCLED
    HEAVY WHITE RIGHTWARDS ARROW\r\n\u27B3\tU+27B3: WHITE-FEATHERED RIGHTWARDS ARROW\r\n\u27B4\tU+27B4:
    BLACK-FEATHERED SOUTH EAST ARROW\r\n\u27B5\tU+27B5: BLACK-FEATHERED RIGHTWARDS
    ARROW\r\n\u27B6\tU+27B6: BLACK-FEATHERED NORTH EAST ARROW\r\n\u27B7\tU+27B7: HEAVY
    BLACK-FEATHERED SOUTH EAST ARROW\r\n\u27B8\tU+27B8: HEAVY BLACK-FEATHERED RIGHTWARDS
    ARROW\r\n\u27B9\tU+27B9: HEAVY BLACK-FEATHERED NORTH EAST ARROW\r\n\u27BA\tU+27BA:
    TEARDROP-BARBED RIGHTWARDS ARROW\r\n\u27BB\tU+27BB: HEAVY TEARDROP-SHANKED RIGHTWARDS
    ARROW\r\n\u27BC\tU+27BC: WEDGE-TAILED RIGHTWARDS ARROW\r\n\u27BD\tU+27BD: HEAVY
    WEDGE-TAILED RIGHTWARDS ARROW\r\n\u27BE\tU+27BE: OPEN-OUTLINED RIGHTWARDS ARROW\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-14 02:11:57'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "Why not add something equally useless, such as a unicase or Bold Italic Small
    Caps?\r\n\r\nNick mate what is so useful about a ten style monospace font in this
    case?? or that trendy outline font of yours??\r\n\r\n-----------------------\r\nChopper
    Reid says \"Harden the fuck up\".\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-14 03:14:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Pay attention Muzzer, we're talking characters not typefaces -- as the thread
    title might indicate.\r\n\r\nBut in reply to your question, my types appeal to
    a discriminating enough niche as it is, no point in narrowing it still further.\r\n\r\nIt
    does seem like a good idea to put one arrow in a font, though, a companion for
    the printer's fist (pointing hand)."
  created: '2007-07-14 03:27:36'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "For your reference, this image is from an invitation for an event featuring\r\nthe
    work of Daniel Bozhkov.\r\n\r\nhttp://i6.photobucket.com/albums/y234/jupiterboy/Arrow.jpg\r\n\r\nhttp://www.danielbozhkov.com/"
  created: '2007-07-14 03:29:05'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "Pay attention Muzzer, we\u2019re talking characters not typefaces \u2014
    as the thread title might indicate.\r\n\r\nI am mate! ears are pricked up and
    all, although the eyes are a bit buggeresd. I just find it funny that you question
    including arrows in a font when the idea of most entire fonts are questionable!!
    probably a bit sideways for this thread.\r\n\r\n-----------------------\r\nChopper
    Reid says \"Harden the fuck up\".\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-14 03:35:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">it\u2019s a question of priorities.\r\n\r\nCyrus Highsmith at last year's
    TypeCon critique session mentioned--to Chris Lozos--his opinion that it is more
    worth your time to do new typefaces than to try to make them very complete as
    far as languages, symbols, etc. "
  created: '2007-07-14 04:04:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Muzz, \"questionable\" has nothing to do with it.\r\nSomeone, somewhere is
    licensing fonts you consider questionable, because there's no accounting for taste.\r\n\r\nThe
    issue for the foundry is this -- does the group of people who may licence a particular
    font overlap with the group of people who use arrows in their designs?\r\n\r\nIt's
    hard to say, because people use fonts in unexpected ways. But for me this thread
    has been informative, and at the moment I am considering adding one left-to-right
    arrow to my neverending typeface."
  created: '2007-07-14 04:08:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks for the links James & Shu.\r\n\r\nThanks for clarifying about the
    'fist' Nick.\r\n\r\nI have learned a heck of a lot too. I am having a go at 10+
    arrows for the heck of it. And a pointing hand as well. And some suns, and moons.
    And an umbrella. oh dear...\r\n\r\nI expect that Cyrus is right.  "
  created: '2007-07-14 06:23:18'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Cyrus Highsmith at last year\u2019s TypeCon critique session mentioned\u2014to
    Chris Lozos\u2014his opinion that it is more worth your time to do new typefaces
    than to try to make them very complete as far as languages, symbols, etc.</em>\r\n\r\nis
    that what you got out of it, chris? i thought he and matthew were saying that
    it's important to settle on your base design before expanding your typeface. but
    i might be wrong."
  created: '2007-07-14 06:41:48'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">And an umbrella. oh dear...\r\n\r\n\u2026hedera too.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-07-14 08:01:29'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: What's the code point for hedera?
  created: '2007-07-14 10:03:49'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I did major in maths, and I'm a type enthusiast, but I frankly don't know
    that much about mathematical typesetting. So from a user perspective, I will try
    to share my impressions of which arrow symbols are actually used in mathematics,
    though with an algebraist bias. I don't have that many maths books with me right
    now as I keep them at work, so I might be missing a few.\r\n\r\nMost mathematical
    typesetting I've seen require no more than the basic single arrow ('\u2192' shows
    up everywhere including maps and limits) and double arrows ('\u21D2' denotes logical
    implication). Also fairly common are the arrows with bars at one end ('\u21A6'
    is used to denote that an element is mapped to something). Don't forget, all these
    will have corresponding slashed versions (i.e. '\u219B') to denote negation.\r\n\r\nIn
    lectures, I've seen a double-headed arrow ('\u21A0') used for surjection and an
    arrow with a tail ('\u21A3') used for injection. I've seen very few typeset examples
    of those, though.\r\n\r\nIn handwriting, arrows are sometimes used like diacritical
    marks to denote that the letters symbolize vectors ('\u20D7' over a dotless 'i',
    for example). In typesetting, however, vectors are indicated by using bold letters,
    i.e. <strong>i</strong>.\r\n\r\nI really love Kris's arrows designed to harmonize
    with the text. But for mathematical typesetting, simple geometric arrows generally
    suffice. I think a dingbat font with arrows in different weights and styles designed
    to be combined with a large range of typefaces would be enough to do the job."
  created: '2007-07-14 10:31:36'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Hederae: 2766, 2767, and 2619, for downward, right pointing, and left pointing,
    respectively\r\n\r\nI don't know why the leftward one is out of sequence, but
    the printers fists follow it at 261A\u2013261F."
  created: '2007-07-14 10:36:30'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "The main reason I have been playing with fonts these last years is to get
    all the symbols I need for mathematical texts and I would never expect a general
    purpose font to contain them all. If you want to have a look at symbols used in
    LaTeX, have a look at the pdf text, <a href=\"http://www.ctan.org/tex-archive/fonts/mnsymbol/MnSymbol.pdf\">MnSymbol
    -- A Math Symbol Font</a>. Those symbols are meant to be used with the font Minion
    Pro. The otf files for MnSymbol are <a href=\"http://www.ctan.org/tex-archive/fonts/mnsymbol/otf/\">here</a>
    in the CTAN Archives and complement the <a href=\"http://tug.ctan.org/cgi-bin/ctanPackageInformation.py?id=minionpro\">MinionPro
    package</a> (public domain).\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2007-07-14 12:21:25'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: under my um-ber-ella-ella-ella-ey-ey-ey
  created: '2007-07-14 16:40:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Sherman
    picture: 112002
  body: "As a somewhat related side note, I thought that people might find some interest
    in this article on the history of the printer's fist, or \"manicule\":\r\nhttp://www.livesandletters.ac.uk/papers/FOR_2005_04_002.html\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-15 06:41:04'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "There are sixteen more arrows in the range <a href=\"http://unicode.org/charts/PDF/U27F0.pdf\">27F0-27FF</a>.\r\n\r\nI
    am into mathematical typesetting, but am unsure how I feel about arrows. Especially
    for the longer and wacky ones, they feel more like graphics than glyphs, or, to
    be more precisely, occupy the hinterland, neither exactly one nor the other. Certainly
    for things like commutativity diagrams, I'd much rather see them synthesized based
    on the geometry of the diagram rather than just pulled out of a font file like
    so much digitized 18th century metal. I think <a href=\"http://tex.loria.fr/typographie/inria-1972.ps.gz\">these
    guys</a> had the right idea. (also see <a href=\"\"http://web.archive.org/web/*/http://cajun.cs.nott.ac.uk/compsci/epo/papers/volume7/issue4/ep124ja.pdf\">Dynamic
    optical scaling and variable-sized characters</a>).\r\n\r\nFor non-mathematical
    work, I think others have pointed out fonts designed for wayfinding. There was
    one that was proprietary for a museum for a while, then released more broadly
    a couple years or so back, but I can't remember which one it was. Whitney doesn't
    seem like it has arrows, but I remember arrows from the specimens. Ah well."
  created: '2007-07-15 07:01:29'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "> I think these guys had the right idea\r\nThanks for the link, and I agree
    with you about those long arrows  in diagrams (be they mathematical or not).\r\n\r\nAs
    for the arrows in the range 2190--21FF, and on a more practical basis, if an undergrad
    student of mine decides to write a mathematics homework using a basic text editor,
    he will certainly need the characters 2192 (for functions), 21D2 (for \"implies\"),
    21D4 (for \"if and only if\"); character 21CF (for \"does not imply\") and 21CE
    (for \"is not equivalent to\") would be useful, as well as 21A6 (\"maps to\" as
    in \"x maps to y\"). Less importantly, characters 21A0 (\"maps onto\" or \"maps
    surjectively\" or \"epimorphism\") and 21AA (\"maps 1--1 into\" or \"maps injectively\"
    or \"monomorphism\") might serve. Off course that student would also need other
    mathematical symbols that are not arrows. If that student uses Word, there is
    an equation editor where all the basic characters can be selected.\r\n\r\nMore
    in line with Raph's comment, if I use the amsart (American Mathematical Society)
    LaTeX package for articles, when I want a \"if and only if\", I type \\iff and
    what comes out is a nice thing made out of two glyphs that look like one: a double
    left arrow and a double right arrow glued together.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-15 16:19:52'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "In case anyone is interested, I put together an OTF of most of the TeX math
    symbols, reencoded as Unicode: <a href=\"http://levien.com/type/ghr10.otf\">ghr10.otf</a>.
    I'm not sure I got everything 100% right, but I do believe that all of the arrows
    are in there. The math symbols in the TeX font library are scattered all over
    the place, with the most common symbols in the Computer Modern text fonts, a great
    many symbols in the CM Math range, and a bunch more in the AMS extensions.\r\n\r\nIncidentally,
    ghr10 is for the Roman (upright) versions of glyphs. There's a separate <a href=\"http://levien.com/type/ghmi10.otf\">ghmi10.otf</a>
    for the Math Italic range, and that's where the lowercase Greek lives. TeX, of
    course, doesn't have italic arrows, so I'm only posting this second file here
    for the thread's broader purpose of discussing math glyphs."
  created: '2007-07-15 16:51:36'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "raph: thanks for posting those files, I had been looking for an example math
    font file, and hadn't been able to grab a few off of my dad's machine yet (between
    LaTeX, Maple, and Mathmatica I think he's got a few).  I haven't seen any truly
    indepth tutorials, but I did find this PDF of a presentation that goes over at
    least some of the design issues: http://www.typoma.com/publ/20040430-bachotex.pdf\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2007-07-15 18:43:56'
- author:
    name: chopshop
    picture: 112738
  body: "I always find myself wishing a full arrow set was available in every font.
    for web  work i often use > or < to point, but have no up down options with the
    exception of ^\u2026 which sucks. Not even talking nicely designed\u2026 just
    having anything resembling arrows that can be added to xml docs for content management.\r\n_____\r\nwww.choppingblock.com\r\nwww.chopshopstore.com\r\nwww.wanderingspace.net\r\nwww.grodzki.com"
  created: '2007-07-16 04:28:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "For those interested in mathematical typesetting, there's a pre-conference
    workshop on math fonts at Microsoft before TypeCon: http://www.typecon.com/workshops.html\r\n\r\nAnd
    I'm just putting the finishing touches to a booklet on the subject, which goes
    to print in the morning. If all goes to plan, we'll have a complimentary copy
    for every TypeCon attendee.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-16 10:17:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "A couple of illustrations from the booklet showing arrows in mathematics\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arrows1_4340.gif]\r\nand
    arrows in chemistry\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arrows2_3844.gif]"
  created: '2007-07-16 10:20:35'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "And here are arrows used to represent a transform (here a rotation) on quantum
    bits implemented as polarized photons (used in quantum cryptography)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Rotation_6276.gif]\r\nThose
    states are represented as simple arrows in the <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_cryptography\">Quantum
    cryptography</a> Wiki entry. Here are (synthesized) semi-circular arrows used
    to represent other polarized photon states\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/RotPolariz_5889.gif]\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-16 13:56:27'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "John, wow, that's great! :-)\r\n\r\nThanks Michel!"
  created: '2007-07-16 17:31:52'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: I just installed the MnSymbol package, and used it  with teTeX to try. Here
    is now  a table giving the symbol from MnSymbol with its unicode number, and its
    corresponding possible usage to represent qubits. The text font is Utopia regular[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tablearrows_5114.gif]
  created: '2007-07-16 17:32:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nice. Thanks, Michel.\r\n\r\nSpeaking of polarisation of photons, did you
    know that dung beetles navigate by referencing the polarisation patterns in moonlight?
    So even these arrows are a kind of way-finding system. :)"
  created: '2007-07-16 19:20:48'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: No, I did not know and just had a look at <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dung_beetles">Dung
    beetles</a> on Wiki. Thanks!
  created: '2007-07-16 20:26:09'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Has anyone mentioned arrows 21DB (triple arrow) and 21DD (\\leadsto). \r\n\r\nFirst
    21DD; it is used in a standard reference on Algorithms (Cormen et al.) to denote
    a path in a graph, i.e. a way to get from one vertex to another by following arrows.\r\n\r\nAbout
    21DB; in  the mathematical theory of n-categories, there are arrows, double arrows,
    triple arrows etc. up to arrows with n lines and a pointed end. Arrows go from
    objects (like vertices) to objects, double arrows from arrows to arrows, and you
    imagine the rest. Here is a (commutative) diagram taken from <a href=\"http://arxiv.org/abs/q-alg/9705009\">An
    introduction to n-categories</a> \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/three-cat_5079.gif]\r\n\r\nAnd
    it is said by the author that this has links with General Relativity and Quantum
    Cosmology...\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2007-07-17 18:17:02'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Generally speaking, an arrow or other symbol should be easier to work with
    in a design as a piece of vector art.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-17 20:20:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: " <em>links with General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology..</em>\r\n\r\n...not
    to mention a General Theory of Readability."
  created: '2007-07-17 21:01:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "And I recognize it immediately as the mystical map of creation in the Kabbalah
    :)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Tree_of_life_wk_02_5041.jpg]"
  created: '2007-07-17 21:16:11'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: ^   ; )
  created: '2007-07-17 21:26:10'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: With apologies...[img:sites/default/files/old-images/diagramgirl_4976.jpg]
  created: '2007-07-18 00:30:41'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "There is indeed just one triple arrow in the diagram, labeled M, in the middle;
    in his article Baez seems to miss u21DB for, though he uses lots of double arrows
    u21D2, when comes the time to speak of M he does not write\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tripple_5944.gif]\r\nand
    instead paraphrases. I wonder who ever used u21DB in a publication. \r\n\r\nMichel\r\n\r\n[edit]
    > With apologies...\r\n\r\nYour variaton on the diagram reminds me of pottery
    figurines from prehistory or early antiquity."
  created: '2007-07-18 02:30:07'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "@russelim:<em>Generally speaking, an arrow or other symbol should be easier
    to work with in a design as a piece of vector art.</em>\r\n\r\nThat rather depends
    on the tool you're using. Arrow diagrams occupy a nether region which is neither
    pure text layout as in book paragraphs nor pure graphic design like drawing a
    portrait in Illustrator. In this way, they are somewhat similar to tables, just
    a little different graphically. You <em>can</em> with some pain fake tables using
    paragraphs and tabs (that's basically what the tab function is for, historically
    at least), and you can also make tables in Illustrator, but both approaches involve
    serious compromises. The serious problem with treating it as pure graphics is
    that it becomes very difficult to do simple operations like adding a row or column,
    or even changing the size of one already existing.\r\n\r\nSince the problem is
    so thorny, there are several different approaches. TeX pretty much holds down
    the \"text\" end of the spectrum, using a complex ASCII markup that is actually
    a relatively powerful programming language. Since the user base of TeX tends to
    be computer scientists, mathematicians, physicists, and statisticians, this actually
    works out pretty well.\r\n\r\nBut I definitely agree, if you're a graphic designer
    without deep semantic knowledge of what the diagram means, and the ability to
    code that in the typesetting system's programming language, then you are better
    off pretending it's pure graphics, and just sacrifice some of the fluidity in
    being able to edit and adapt it.\r\n\r\nI say tables and arrow diagrams fairly
    interchangeably here. There are important differences between the two, but the
    structure of the problem is similar, and, in the case of the chemistry diagram
    posted by John above, it's clear from the grid alignment that the tool used to
    create the diagram was in fact some form of table.\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-18 06:13:53'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "@raph <cite>. TeX pretty much holds down the \u201Ctext\u201D end of the
    spectrum</cite>\r\n\r\nBut Baez article above was written in LaTeX (based on TeX)
    and his graphics are .eps (the source is available from <a href=\"http://arxiv.org/abs/q-alg/9705009\">this
    link</a> when you click on \"other formats\"); and the LaTeX package graphics
    allows importing pdf files, png files, etc in pdflatex. Finally, if you look on
    <a href=\"http://arxiv.org/\">arXiv</a>, and in particular <a href=\"http://xxx.lanl.gov/list/quant-ph/recent\">quant-ph</a>,
    you can see from the source files  that many papers written in LaTeX come with
    figures in external .eps files. We are thus not limited to the \"text\" end of
    the spectrum, we are free to decide what suits us best."
  created: '2007-07-18 14:20:19'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "For my take on the font vs. graphic debate, you need to know that at the
    time TeX was being developed 1980 it was very difficult and expensive to get graphics
    into a page. In book production in that time of galleys of phototype, it was nearly
    impossible, without huge cost.\r\n\r\nThus TeX was built to allow any characters
    to be built into fonts, and Knuth even invented a program for creating fonts called
    Metafont.\r\n\r\nAs Russel says, today graphics are a completely viable alternative.
    In fact, when I include math in my equations today in web-based courses, I use
    graphics, due to the inconsistent handling of math by different browsers. A gif
    will always show up. (I do feel bad that my pages are less accessible to the handicapped,
    as the alt tags only say \"math formula\").\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-18 16:58:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Michel, that's great stuff not least because it explains the context for
    an arrow that has 3 shafts.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-18 20:11:15'
date: '2007-07-10 17:36:59'
title: Tell me about Arrows please. (This is a type question!)

---
