---
author:
  name: John Hudson
  picture: 110397
body: "Favourite restaurants?\r\n\r\nGreat shops?\r\n\r\nFunky bars?\r\n\r\nBest cup
  of espresso?\r\n\r\nPlaces to buy esoteric musical instruments?\r\n\r\n...okay,
  so I know the answer to the last one already."
comments:
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I'd like to save \"cool\" for a second, and get the basics down first...\r\n\r\nHelvetica-flavored
    popcorn butter? Affordable criminal lawyer? Most active lava flow? Space needle
    salt and pepper shakers?\r\nPocket-sized fire extinguisher? Shortest route to
    border (Mexican)? Most cmoprehensive view of thr Pacific rim? Replacement knife
    and lighter? Local judge who likes fonts? Active fault line map? Newspaper with
    FB fonts? Dog rentals? Garlic store? Hotel with free slippers and winter weight
    bathrobes? Dentist with offspring or spouse in graphic arts? Taxi company with
    glass between driver and passengers? Six mafia guys with a refrigerated truck
    and nothing to do for four days?...and where do they unload the king crab from
    the boats?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-14 11:58:04'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "dberlow:\r\nI'm investigating the newspapers for you. Let me see...\r\nThe
    Seattle Post-Intelligencer's primary fonts are Frutiger, Charter, and Mendoza\r\nThe
    Seattle Times primary fonts are Charter, Walbaum, and SunST\r\nThe Stranger uses
    Century Expanded and H&F-J's Knockout, according to a friend of mine\r\nThe Seattle
    Weekly I don't know yet..."
  created: '2007-07-14 18:34:10'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Newspaper with FB fonts?</cite>\r\n\r\nThe Tacoma <cite>News Tribune</cite>
    uses Agenda and Whitman Display in headlines -- both from FB. ;-)\r\n\r\n<cite>
    > Dog rentals?</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't know about \"rentals,\" but when I was out
    there last year for my brother's wedding, my wife and I stumbled across this great
    doggie daycare with lots of dogs in the window, if you need a canine fix. I think
    it was on Bell between 3rd and 4th. Somewhere near there.\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2007-07-14 18:46:50'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Best Seattle insurance company's commercials to watch on YouTube: <a href=\"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zNQoeXBtPMw\">Vern
    Fonk</a>\r\n\r\nOther top Dan locations in Seattle:\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>Best Burger:
    (tied)<ul><li>McCormick & Schmick's Harborside on Westlake Ave - A half pound
    burger for less than $2, who's complaining?</li><li>The Frontier Room - Others
    will argue with me, but I believe that their Frontier Burger(/bacon) is the best
    tasty burger in town.</li></ul>\r\n<li>Best Buffalo Wings: Blue Star Cafe and
    Pub at 45th and Stone. My friend created all of the sauces that they use in house
    from a secret recipe.</li>\r\n<li>Best Philly Cheese steak: Whatever Philly's
    Best is now at 23rd and Union. The old owner got shot because the place was allegedly
    a front for a drug operation, but the cheese steaks are Oh So Good.</li>\r\n<li>Best
    guitar effect store: Al's Guitarville. It's up around 175th and 15th, but it's
    worth finding. They have all sorts of custom/esoteric effects. The shop is good,
    and the people are cool.<ul><li>Honorable Mention: The Trading Musician on 50th
    and Roosevelt. They have even more effects and cool old electric guitars and synths
    and stuff, but they're gonna try to take you for a ride, and some of the guys
    are jerks.</li></ul></li>\r\n\r\nMore as I can think of them :)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-14 19:01:04'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "kentlew:\r\n<cite>The Tacoma News Tribune uses Agenda and Whitman Display
    in headlines \u2014 both from FB. ;-)</cite>\r\n\r\nARGH! You got me. Funny thing
    is, that's actually the paper I read most because it has the best sports section
    in the state, except that I read it online!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-14 19:07:48'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<ul><li>Best NFL team: The Seahawks</li>\r\n<li>Best MLB team: The Mariners</li>\r\n<li>Best
    NBA team: The Oklahoma City Sonics</li>\r\n<li>Best NHL team: The we-don't-have-one-and-it-makes-me-sads</li></ul>"
  created: '2007-07-14 19:11:36'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Best NHL team: The we-don\u2019t-have-one-and-it-makes-me-sads</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    way attendance has been at Caps games it won\u2019t be long before Ted jumps on
    the attention your city government is giving him and ships the team your way.
    Of course, they\u2019ll still be terrible, but at least you guys would appreciate
    having them around. "
  created: '2007-07-14 19:20:18'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Not cool. Essential. Best espresso : Vivace : espressovivace.com\r\n\r\nhttp://www.google.com/search?hl=en&safe=off&client=safari&rls=en&sa=X&oi=spell&resnum=0&ct=result&cd=1&q=Vivace+espresso&spell=1#
    \ \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-14 19:30:41'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Sadly Key Arena, where our WHL team plays, is not big enough for an NHL team.
    Urban legend dictates that the Sonics were behind that move. I won't miss the
    Sonics when they go to OK-C or wherever. However when the Jail-blazers move up
    to Seattle from Portland I'll give them my support.  \r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n\r\nPS
    did I mention Seattle was the first US team to win Lord Stanley's Cup?  "
  created: '2007-07-14 22:06:18'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>I won\u2019t miss the Sonics when they go to OK-C or wherever.</cite>\r\n<strong>Blasphemer!</strong>\r\nChoosing
    Mr. Allen's team over the Sonics? That M$ blood runs thick, don't it?... \r\n\r\nGo
    Sonics! No, I mean, Stay Sonics!"
  created: '2007-07-14 23:11:59'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "You guys are making me jealous - I so wish I could be there. Alas, I have
    an unbreakable prior commitment to spend that week with the family. Ah well.\r\n\r\nIs
    there someone who's going who can get the Spiro demo loaded on their computer?
    This will be the first TypeCon at which the code is actually released and I'm
    able to talk about it openly.\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-14 23:17:16'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Ralph, what do you have in mind? What OS? Does it matter?\r\n\r\nProbably
    somebody other than myself will be more ideal because I will be shooting photos
    a lot. But it sounds to me as if more info/context would be probably helpful. "
  created: '2007-07-15 02:11:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Eben, thank you so much for the Vivace info. Espresso is a Very Important
    Thing. If you're ever heading to the Vancouver or Victoria area let me know, and
    I'll point you to the best coffee.\r\n\r\nDavid mentioned king crab legs. I don't
    know where they come off the boats, but I had a very tasty and highly entertaining
    time whacking these and other shellfish with a wooden mallet at the Crabpot restaurant
    on Pier 57. Half the fun on that occasion was the look on the faces of the visiting
    Indian font developers who had never seen a meal served in this way before."
  created: '2007-07-15 03:57:18'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Best Espresso? I'd like to throw in my two bits. The <a href="http://www.lighthouseroasters.com/">Lighthouse
    Roasters</a> are amazing. A cup of their drip whips most espressos hands down.
    Their espressos make Starbucks want to hide their heads in shame.
  created: '2007-07-15 06:48:56'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "FB font sighting:\r\nI may be wrong, but I believe that Qwest Field, the
    home of the Seahawks, uses Agency FB all over for signage and whatnot. Someone
    correct me if I'm wrong, I just got back from a Mariners game, and the price of
    the beer may have fogged my brain.\r\n\r\nAnd if anyone is interested in seeing
    a random 4' ampersand, there's one on a garage door over by 40th(give or take
    a few blocks) and Stone for some apparent reason."
  created: '2007-07-15 06:54:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am willing to try all the espresso suggestions! That should keep me awake
    for all the sessions :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-15 15:42:59'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "Best chinese restaurant and bar and staff = Uptown China say HI to Yumay
    for me and if Fred is there tell him Vinnie said 'ah,. you c---' and he'll no
    what I mean.\r\nhttp://www.urbanspoon.com/r/1/676/Seattle/Queen-Anne/Uptown-China-Restaurant.html\r\n\r\nBest
    espresso: Uptown Espresso\r\nhttp://www.uptownespresso.net/location.html\r\n\r\nBest
    Steak sandwich or Burger and pint of beer (they have an unfortunate love of the
    Blues which sometimes is annoying) Bad Albert's Tavern on 5100 Ballard Ave. Ballard.\r\nhttp://www.badalberts.com/\r\n\r\nBest
    English pub : George and Dragon pub. Fremont.\r\nhttp://www.georgeanddragonpub.com/\r\nManU
    v Chelsea (community shield - it's back already!)Aug 5, 9am LIVE 6pm repeat.\r\n\r\nBest
    ice rink : Olympic View Rink in Montlake Terrace\r\nhttp://www.olyview.com/\r\nas
    the name suggests it's olympic size 60m x 30m \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-15 18:54:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"unfortunate love of the Blues \"\r\n\r\nTo me, that would be fortunate
    so I might have to check that place out!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-15 19:03:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Their espressos make Starbucks want to hide their heads in shame.</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    that's hardly difficult. Starbucks is like a methodone clinic for people with
    caffeine addictions. Flavour clearly has nothing to do with it: the fully-automated
    machines they use actually make it impossible to pull a proper espresso shot\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-15 19:22:24'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "If you've never been to Seattle before, you have to visit the <a href=\"http://www.pikeplacemarket.org/\">Pike
    Place Market</a> -- it's foodie heaven.  ;-)\r\n\r\nAnd for the adventurous with
    wheels, you can drive to Woodinville (20 miles east of Seattle) to the <a href=\"http://www.redhook.com/\">Redhook
    Brewery</a>: their Blackhook Porter is exquisite....\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-15 20:30:17'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "Chris, Bad Albert's (named after the owners former cat)I believe Thursday
    nights use to have a funny Annie organ woman playing, a teacher. But the weekends
    they have the Blues.\r\n\r\nThey might still have Polaroids of the early days
    and I'm in one pic with a RED scarlet girl (Aimee)near the toilets.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-15 23:02:20'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: "I will definitly try Bambuza Vietnamese Bistro\r\nhttp://www.bambuza.com/food.html\r\n\r\nI
    think I m not going from Buenos Aires to Seattle to eat burguers! A lot of crabs
    and pacific fishes are waiting for me!"
  created: '2007-07-15 23:07:28'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Speaking of Buenos Aires, I live right above the <a href="http://www.nwsource.com/ae/scr/edb_vd.cfm?ven=6775&s=st">Buenos
    Aires Grill</a> on 2nd and Virginia downtown, a nice, classy joint with great
    food and a great atmosphere. The people there are very cool.
  created: '2007-07-15 23:24:57'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "And you can buy an Alaskan Rockfish in the Pike Place Market:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rockfish-38-11x_5610.jpg]\r\n\r\nA
    little butter, and you're all set"
  created: '2007-07-15 23:27:58'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: I always suggest people to never try a argentinian restaurant outside of Argentina
    :(
  created: '2007-07-16 01:11:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...I\u2019m in one pic with a RED scarlet girl (Aimee)near the toilets.\"\r\n\r\nVince,\r\nHow
    did you get such a choice location :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-16 01:26:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Ale,\r\nI went to an Argentinean restaurant in Virginia and was disappointed.
    \ I guess I will have to visit the real ones in your homeland some day to taste
    the real thing!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-16 01:30:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Yep, Pike Place Market is great. The cheese shop across the road is excellent,
    too.\r\n\r\nNext door to the market is the South Arcade, which is where those
    <a href=\"http://larkinthemorning.com/default.asp\">esoteric musical instruments</a>
    are."
  created: '2007-07-16 07:29:34'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: '''Matt''s in the market'' ( pike place ) has some seriously happening Gumbo.  And
    other fine victuals as well.'
  created: '2007-07-16 07:54:31'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aimee_3938.jpg]\r\n\r\nAll the pics are
    by the toilets if they are still there. Look out for Aimee she holds the key!"
  created: '2007-07-16 10:30:39'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "best Take away Burrito= Burrito Express in Northgate. \r\nhttp://archives.seattletimes.nwsource.com/cgi-bin/texis.cgi/web/vortex/display?slug=deal03&date=20031003\r\n\r\nhandy
    burrito = Fremont Taco Del Mar if it's still there near the Lenin statue.\r\nhttp://www.roadsideamerica.com/attract/WASEAlenin.html"
  created: '2007-07-16 11:38:41'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"the Crabpot restaurant on Pier 57\"\r\n\r\nThanks John, I'll pack a real
    hammer.\r\n\r\n\"A little butter, and you\u2019re all set\"\r\n\r\n...ever notice
    that fish start to look like the people who catch them?"
  created: '2007-07-16 11:40:17'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I think Matts is closed for renovations. '
  created: '2007-07-16 15:20:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...ever notice that fish start to look like the people who catch them?\"\r\n\r\nLOL!!!
    Maybe I would look like a big mouthed Bass :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-16 15:28:48'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> I think Matts is closed for renovations. </cite>\r\n\r\nI had heard
    that too but supposedly they will re-open in time for type con. But of course
    maybe they won't..."
  created: '2007-07-16 15:42:33'
- author:
    name: robb
    picture: 109473
  body: "-the (tea and) crumpet shop which serves green eggs. up the street from the
    market, across from a glaringly pink-signed smut theater.\r\n\r\n-the best cup
    of coffee i ever had was in Ballard, some hot rod yellow cafe which is hopefully
    still there. utterly blanking on the name."
  created: '2007-07-16 18:42:49'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "The best sandwich was probably a place in Pikes Market that served a Meatloaf
    sandwich. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-17 09:51:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That redhead is one rough lookin' lady, Vince.  I would really have to go
    badly to get up the nerve to ask her for the key resting over her heart :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-17 15:32:38'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "So where's the best place in Seattle to hear good local jazz? Good bop or
    avant [or whatever the heck it is called these days]. Just no smooth jazz. Thursday,
    Friday, and Saturday night.\r\n\r\nthanks.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2007-07-17 23:59:37'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Robb: it's funny; you're remembering the color but not the name of everything.
    That's often how I remember things. But what about flavor? \r\n\r\nIf you're lucky
    you can visit Brighton's best English pub later this year, for authenticity. Meanwhile
    about that crab.... Does anyone have a sushi recommendation? I'm assuming the
    seafood will be good all around. John thanks for the crab tip. "
  created: '2007-07-18 00:09:56'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Yes! More Sushi!!
  created: '2007-07-18 00:50:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Since a few people have responded to the crab tip, I should probably provide
    a little more information in case people are surprised. Crabpots is not fine dining
    in terms of atmosphere. It's very kid-friendly and can be quite loud.\r\n\r\nYou
    come in. You sit down. They tie a plastic bib round your neck. You order. They
    lay out a big sheet of butcher paper on the table. They bring you a wooden block
    and a mallet. They bring a big metal tub of freshly steamed seafood. They dump
    the seafood on the table. You start grabbing and hammering.\r\n\r\nGreat fun.
    Very messy. Very tasty."
  created: '2007-07-18 02:30:08'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I would be interested in seeing you in a bib John. '
  created: '2007-07-18 02:34:38'
- author:
    name: archer
    picture: 112316
  body: "best sandwich: salumi's\r\n\r\nbest doughnuts: top pot\r\n\r\nfor pizza:
    pagliacci's\r\n\r\nfor good sushi try umi sake house, they have a fabulous variety!
    (and a great happy hour deal, but get there early)\r\n\r\nfor a nicer meal try
    lola or dahlia lounge (two of tom douglas')...try the coconut cream pie!\r\n\r\nat
    pike's there's a stand on the top floor (near the crepes) that sells hot, fresh
    little doughnuts with sugar topping of you choice shaken up in a paper bag...so
    good!!\r\n\r\n\r\none more suggestion...if you love asian food or just want to
    check out interesting produce uwajimaya is the place"
  created: '2007-07-18 03:44:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Jennifer, we are nearly neighbors--well sorta, I live in Falls Church.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-18 03:48:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Best doughnuts in Arlington, Heidelberg Pastry Shop.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-18 03:50:54'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Eben:\r\n<cite>Best espresso : Vivace : espressovivace.com</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    have confirmation of this from an avowed coffee snob. I asked, and it wasn't even
    close. You can rest assured that this is the place.\r\n\r\n<ul><li>My vote for
    favorite Asian place has to be <a href=\"http://seattle.citysearch.com/profile/10776758/seattle_wa/tai_tung_restaurant.html\">Tai
    Tung's</a> in the International District. My grandparents ate there back in the
    60s, so the place has been around a while. I love it!</li>\r\n\r\n<li>A nice Sak\xE9
    and Sushi happy hour can be found at the <a href=\"http://seattle.citysearch.com/profile/10767399\">Dragonfish</a>
    Asian restaurant. Cool, hip place with good food and sak\xE9.</li>\r\n\r\n<li><a
    href=\"http://www.myspace.com/clubnocnoc\">Club Noc Noc</a> has an awesome happy
    hour. Every Mon-Fri 5 to 9 they have a $2 menu, $2 wells and $1 beers*. Sundays
    they have 25\xA2 beer*. (Burlesque on Thursdays too...)\r\n\r\n*Pabst Blue Ribbon
    beer-flavored-tap-water</li>\r\n</ul>"
  created: '2007-07-18 06:32:41'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: "Carl, everything I did these days was search about sushi places. And I should
    confess that right now I m more interested in crab and rolls than in type.\r\nNishino,
    Chiso, Maneki and Ototo are some names to remember when we meet there :)"
  created: '2007-07-18 13:40:44'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I'll second the Tom Douglas restaurant; my wife and I had a truly fine meal
    at one of them during our last visit. I just can't remember which one it was (the
    name). I'm thinking it was Dahlia's -- the one down near the water (on Western
    Ave maybe?). I seem to remember it's near that Oldenberg-esque inverted-umbrella
    sculpture. Does that sound familiar to the locals?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-18 14:27:42'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: 'Kent: Etta''s? http://tomdouglas.com/ettas/index.html'
  created: '2007-07-18 15:11:39'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'My sources tell me that <A HREF="http://www.clubcontour.com/">Contour</A>
    has a great happy hour too - and what better name could you ask for a font conference? '
  created: '2007-07-18 16:25:14'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: There's a good chance I'll be coming to Typecon this year and staying at the
    Crowne Plaza. I know there'll be shuttle buses to offsite events, but for evening
    entertainment and other general getting-around, is it convenient/important/crucial
    to rent a car?
  created: '2007-07-18 16:50:33'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Ale -- Etta's! That's it. I think we called about reservations at Dahlia's
    and couldn't get in. Thanks for finding the right one.\r\n\r\nMarc -- I'll let
    locals confirm, but my sense is that you won't need to rent a car for getting
    around. The bus system is pretty good in Seattle. And from my experience at past
    TypeCons, there are always plenty of people to share a cab, cutting costs and
    providing excuses for more networking. Also, I think a lot of places being discussed
    may be easily walkable.\r\n\r\nI do hope you can make it.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-18 17:55:26'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Those of us who have to use the public transit system in Seattle have no
    comment on the above ;(\r\n\r\nOk, I lie. A car would be awesome, except you're
    gonna have a damn time trying to park the thing, for free, that is. If you want
    to pay, there are plenty of spots.\r\n\r\nMost of the spots we've been discussing
    are within the downtown area, so there should be no problems should you decide
    to hoof it. Cabs are also an option, but I hate those scalpers. \r\n\r\nThe Metro
    bus system is really good at getting you North and South. It sucks big time when
    it comes to East>West. It's not the bus' fault, it's the stupid city planners
    who made no major E-W arterials anywhere in the city that don't suck.\r\n\r\nMy
    experience as a bus rider for 5 years says that you shouldn't rent a car. Unless
    you want to go outside the city, like to the Eastside to check out the wineries
    or whatever. Those buses will take hours and never conform to any reasonable schedule.\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-18 23:01:32'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: Thanks for the transportation feedback, everyone. My Seattle ambitions don't
    extend much beyond TypeCon and the occasional good meal, so it sounds like a car
    might not be necessary.
  created: '2007-07-18 23:56:10'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: Marc, you won't need a car, and the parking at the hotel is not cheap. There
    are a few people at the Crowne Plaza looking for roomies if you're interested.
  created: '2007-07-19 01:49:09'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I think Matts is closed for renovations. \r\n\r\n>I had heard that too but
    supposedly they will re-open in time for type con. But of course maybe they won\u2019t...\r\n\r\nThere
    was a review in the paper so it's re-opened. However still need a reservation
    to get a spot without a long wait.\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-23 23:08:42'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "There are also typographic wonders such as these on Dearborn to sojourn to:\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>\r\nWorst
    public utility signage spacing ever?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMGP2710_4601.jpg]\r\n</li>\r\n\r\n<li>Is
    that 666 meant to be subliminal?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMGP2712_3803.jpg]\r\n</li>\r\n\r\n<li>Basic
    Dry Cleaner's sign + a little creativity = political statement of the century[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMGP2703_5892.jpg]\r\n</li>"
  created: '2007-07-24 06:49:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Dan,\r\nThe \"liberty and Justice for \" is a thing of beauty. I also like
    the red hand stop sign for pedestrians adding to the statement.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-24 12:48:49'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: The best signs in Seattle use to be across from the Seattle Art Museum, University
    St and First Ave. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lusty_Lady
  created: '2007-07-24 16:56:34'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Thanks Chris. I'm thinking of submitting this photograph to the Times or something,
    just to see what they think.
  created: '2007-07-24 18:41:42'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "I'm trying to sneak in dinner with a friend on Thursday evening, between
    the conclusion of the afternoon workshops and the start of the opening gala. \r\n\r\nDoes
    anyone know what time the keynote speeches begin? Would I be correct in assuming
    that 7:45 (the listed start time) is when cocktails & socializing commence, with
    the the more formal part of the evening getting underway a little later?"
  created: '2007-07-29 04:15:09'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I just met up with Tamye at the hotel bar. The only important time is 7.45pm
    when the open-bar opens, and 8.45pm when it turns into a pumpkin (AKA pay-bar).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-30 03:01:16'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "For all those who haven\u2019t arrived yet, bring a jacket! It\u2019s like
    San Francisco out here today..."
  created: '2007-07-30 03:55:22'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Here's the ten day, it's warming up - http://weather.msn.com/tenday.aspx?wealocations=wc:USWA0395
    \r\n\r\nBut today was nice, Seattle shorts and t-shirt weather (70 F) for most
    of the day, despite a bit of rain. "
  created: '2007-07-30 04:38:55'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "Thanks, Si. Not much a drinker, so the witching hour doesn't worry me. Just
    don't want to miss the keynote and film fest.\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-30 05:20:54'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'In that case the word is that the keynote will start at 8.15pm (give or take) '
  created: '2007-07-30 05:24:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "See you all there on Tuesday!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-30 06:11:24'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: "I can confirm Si's comments... Cocktails and hors d' at 7:45, 8:15 is schedule
    start for welcome remarks, 8:30 for keynote, with Film Fest to follow. The start
    time is subject to change depending on how long it takes to get people from the
    bar on the patio into the ballroom. We'll do our best to corral everyone in a
    timely fashion.\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-30 09:40:00'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: Si, Tamye -- Thanks for the info. Dinner is set, and I won't miss a thing.
  created: '2007-07-30 16:50:16'
date: '2007-07-14 06:55:23'
title: So we've had "who's-going-who-needs-a-roomie-who-wants-to-carpool", now it's
  time for "cool-things-to-do-in Seattle"

---
