---
author:
  name: anagnost
  picture: 112746
body: "Hi all,\r\n\r\nI am new to this board and this is my first post. I am currently
  working on an \"Old Style\" Greek font, which will include several historic ligatures.
  I is quite obvious fact, that many of the Greek ligatures are context-dependent:
  for example, there are usual abbreviations for some common conjunctions or word
  endings which should not be used in other cases (i. e. when the same sequence of
  letters occurs at the middle of a word). However, the OpenType specification seems
  to provide only one feature specially intended for contextual ligatures (namely
  'clig'), and most OpenType renderers enable this feature by default, which, of course,
  is not exactly that I want. On the other hand, the recommended implementation for
  the 'hlig' feature is GSUB lookup type 1, i. e. plain ligature substitution.\r\n\r\nSo
  I am wondering, which feature tag should I use for historical context-dependent
  ligatures, if I would like them to be disabled in normal contexts? Can anybody suggest
  me a proper solution?"
comments:
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: you could put this in a [[stylistic set]], i would think.
  created: '2007-07-17 14:22:05'
- author:
    name: anagnost
    picture: 112746
  body: Yes, I have already seen this recommendation somewhere in this forum. However,
    the recommended implementation for stylistic sets is, again, GSUB lookup type
    1, which is not appropriate for my case. So, why using stylistic sets for contextual
    substitutions is considered better than assigning a GSUB lookup type 8 to the
    'hlig' feature, if both solutions seem to contradict to the specification?
  created: '2007-07-17 14:31:28'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: well, if you want to be strict about it, you could make a stylistic set of
    your greek letters, which are duplicates of your regular letters and then use
    these alternates to create your ligatures from in the clig feature.
  created: '2007-07-17 15:06:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What if you put different forms in {calt} and the {liga} would find those
    parings and convert them to your special ligs?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-17 15:39:19'
- author:
    name: anagnost
    picture: 112746
  body: "Well, I considered solutions like these, and they don't look very elegant,
    especially because I have no special \"historic\" forms for most letters, so that,
    indeed, I have to create a set of exact duplicates of my regular letters. In fact,
    I would prefer to assign a lookup type 8 to 'hlig', if there are no strict \"contraindications\"
    against such practice (at least with ICU/XeTeX my lookup works just fine). \r\n\r\nI
    am wondering, however, why the OT specification forces developers to resort to
    such ugly tricks if only they want to strictly follow it. I think it would be
    quite possible either to define special features for historic contextual ligatures
    (and historic contextual alternates), or to explicitly allow using different lookup
    types for 'hist' and 'hlig'."
  created: '2007-07-17 17:04:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "In my heavily ligatured Greek font, I used a two-level approach. Simple,
    tying ligatures that I was happy to have active by default went in the 'liga'
    feature; more elaborate, archaic ligatures went in the 'dlig' feature. Given the
    definition of GSUB layout features and their current implemantations, I would
    be confident putting contextual lookups in any feature. So in the case you describe
    I would probably put appropriate contextual lookups for these ligatures in the
    'dlig' feature.\r\n\r\n<em>I am wondering, however, why the OT specification forces
    developers to resort to such ugly tricks if only they want to strictly follow
    it.</em>\r\n\r\nYou need to bear in mind that many of the OTL feature definitions
    were written at a time when no one had actually implemented OpenType Layout. They
    represent Microsoft and Adobe's best guess at what would be desirable and how
    it might work. Also bear in mind that the feature descriptions are not part of
    the OT specification proper: they are an appendix. I consider them, after many
    years of discussion with Microsoft and Adobe engineers and managers, as informational
    and suggestive, rather than binding. The only restriction I recommend and adhere
    to is that GSUB and GPOS lookups should not be mixed in the same feature and that
    a clean distinction should be made between GSUB and GPOS features.\r\n\r\nI have
    suggested in the past that a more sensible feature model would have allowed for
    three states for any layout feature -- required (on by default, cannot be turned
    off), desired (on by default, can be turned off), and discretionary (off by default,
    can be turned on) -- and any feature could explicitly include either non-contextual
    lookups, contextual lookups, or both. But this is a hypothetical suggestion (and
    something to bear in mind when spec'ing the font format of tomorrow)."
  created: '2007-07-18 02:55:15'
- author:
    name: anagnost
    picture: 112746
  body: "Thank you, John, this is exactly what I wanted to know. Just a small question:
    are there any particular reasons to prefer 'dlig' over 'hlig' for historical ligatures?
    I always supposed that 'dlig' is intended for those cases where it is impossible
    to determine the applicability of a particular ligature in the given context with
    a simple algorithm, so that the user has to turn the feature on and off whenever
    appropriate (as with standard f-ligatures in German and ae/oe in Latin). Since
    there are similar cases in Greek, I planned to put them into 'dlig', keeping 'hlig'
    for more \"safe\" ligatures, which normally don't require any manual control.\r\n\r\nI
    also would be very interested to know, which exactly ligatures you have defined
    in your Greek font, and which of them have been placed to 'liga'. I am asking
    this, because designing Greek ligatures is a captivating process... but, I think,
    it is necessary to stop somewhere, especially because historic ligatures are not
    going to be actively used anyway. So it would be interesting to determine a minimal
    set of ligatures sufficient for achieving an effect of an \"old style\" charm.
    That's why I would like to know how other developers resolve the same task."
  created: '2007-07-18 09:37:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I ignore the 'hlig' feature (and 'clig'), and use only 'liga', 'dlig' and
    'rlig'. These cover all the situations that I think matter: on by default, off
    by default, always on. So for the 'safe' ligatures for which you were thinking
    of using 'hlig' I would simply use 'liga'.\r\n\r\nI'm just getting ready to hit
    the road for a couple of days, but will try to remember to get back to this thread
    with some comments about Greek ligature sets."
  created: '2007-07-18 17:10:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I am putting historic forms in the Greek fonts I'm working on.\r\nThere are
    the Unicode \"historic variants\" of beta, kappa, theta, phi, pi, sigma, cap upsilon,
    etc., abbreviations, and the \"number\" forms of koppa etc.\r\n\r\nBecause they
    break down into categories which don't fully correspond to a neat split between
    contemporary and historic, I am avoiding any \"hist\" designations, and arranging
    them in Stylistic Sets\r\nThe categories are:\r\n- contemporary (default)\r\n-
    \"scripty\" historical variants\r\n- obscurely historic (round sigma and omega-shaped
    pi)\r\n- historic abbreviations\r\n\r\nThe \"kai\" character is included, but
    no actual ligatures -- however, I am including a fully marked set of omicron-upsilon
    abbreviations, and the sigma-tau abbreviation.\r\nBecause these are abbreviations,
    not ligatures, they are going in a Stylistic Set.\r\nAs far as I am aware, these
    abbreviations were well-used in classical Greek typography of the 18th and 19th
    century, so are appropriate to 19th-century revivals, which is what my faces are.\r\n\r\nThe
    scripty \"historical variants\" of theta etc. seem quite at home today, especially
    in light of the orthodoxy (as represented by Adobe, Microsoft, and GFS) that Greek
    is inherently scripty, and their inclusion in Unicode as separate characters with
    their own code points, which mandates their inclusion in any fonts with pretensions
    of completeness.\r\n\r\nIMO, making them separate characters is absurd, like making
    the single and double-bowl \"a\" and \"g\" in Latin separate characters, or, for
    that matter, Roman and Italic. "
  created: '2007-07-18 18:44:12'
- author:
    name: anagnost
    picture: 112746
  body: "Nick,\r\n\r\nI don't think omicron-upsilon and sigma-tau can be called abbreviations.
    The only point at which they are different from standard Latin ligatures is that
    they are formed from vertically (not horizontally) stacked elements, but, I think,
    this doesn't prevent them from being real ligatures at any other aspects. But,
    of course, it is really difficult to distinguish ligatures from abbreviations
    as the early Greek printing is concerned.\r\n\r\nI also don't believe all Greek
    letterforms defined in Unicode can be easily separated into categories you have
    listed. Let's take \"script\" theta for example: it would be completely wrong
    idea to assume that this form is intended mainly for script or italic typefaces.
    In fact, it is as \"contemporary\" as the closed form, and it is a matter of typographic
    conventions to decide which one should be preferred. For example, in traditional
    German (and Russian) typography the \"closed\" theta was almost unknown, and the
    loopy form is still considered normal and preferred in most contexts.\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-18 19:10:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>it is really difficult to distinguish ligatures from abbreviations </em>\r\n\r\nI
    don't think so.\r\nIn ligatures, two characters are joined by a ligating element
    -- as is most obvious in the Latin \"quaints\" c_t and s_t.\r\nHowever, in the
    omicron-upsilon and sigma-tau combinations, the individual characters are lost
    in a composite form that quite literally abbreviates (removes) parts of the components.
    There is no sense of two characters being joined by a ligature, or extra material.
    In fact, rather than the addition of a joining component or ligature, body parts
    are removed.\r\n\r\nSome interpretations of omicron-upsilon look like somewhat
    like an upsilon sitting on top of omicron, but where is the ligature that joins
    them? Other versions, such as my italic here, are even further removed. In sigma-tau,
    where is the stem of the tau?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/abbrvs_6355.jpg]\r\n\r\nThis
    compression is quite different from ligation."
  created: '2007-07-19 00:16:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I also don\u2019t believe all Greek letterforms defined in Unicode can
    be easily separated into categories you have listed...it would be completely wrong
    idea to assume that this form is intended mainly for script or italic typefaces.
    </em>\r\n\r\nI agree with you, which is why I criticized the separate Unicode
    points for what are in essence stylistic variants.\r\nI use the term \"scripty\"
    only to indicate that these versions of the character are more, shall we say,
    calligraphic.\r\nBut I do think they can be usefully grouped in stylistic sets.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Scripty2_5702.jpg]\r\n\r\nOf
    course, there are still problems with these groupings. \r\nFor instance, perhaps
    the \"scripty\" beta should be contextually encoded to replace the descendered
    form in the middle of words.\r\nAnd it does seem strange that the \"historic variant\"
    of phi is *less* scripty than the default!\r\nHowever, I'm following Unicode (although
    I have added a variant rho to the scheme). "
  created: '2007-07-19 00:41:30'
- author:
    name: anagnost
    picture: 112746
  body: "You should keep in mind, that the whole concept of connecting lines is peculiar
    to the Latin script and almost unknown for the Greek writing (and early Greek
    printing). Most Greek ligatures are formed by such a way that the involved characters
    share some of their basic features and, naturally, may lose their components which
    would be considered important otherwise. This is more like Latin 'ae' than 'ct'.
    In case of 'omicron-upsilon' and 'sigma-tau' the connection is very close indeed,
    and yet both parts are still recognizable (sigma-tau is essentially a lunate sigma
    over a tau, although the right arm of the tau is not present in most designs),
    none of them being abandoned or completely subdued by another. That's why I still
    think they are ligatures, and they were always considered ligatures in the literature
    devoted to the history of the Greek printing.\r\n\r\nAnother reason for which
    I think the term \"abbreviations\" is inappropriate here is that it normally denotes
    an entity which is used to substitute a specific word, or a specific morpheme,
    rather than just a common sequence of letters. Cf. the case of the Greek \"kai\"
    symbol: it corresponds to the Greek conjunction \"kai\", but, of course, not just
    to the 'kappa-alpha-iota' letter sequence. But of course this might be just a
    terminology issue.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-19 18:43:31'
- author:
    name: anagnost
    picture: 112746
  body: "The problem is that you cannot put Greek glyphs into the same set basing
    just on their shape and Unicode mappings, but ignoring the history of each particular
    letterform. For example, in your particular case I would probably make the x-shaped
    kappa and the \"scripty\" rho the default forms, as they would be more appropriate
    for a typeface implemented in a German style. Curly beta represents a completely
    special case (it should never be used for typesetting classical Greek, unless
    the French contextual rule is applied), so please don't put it into the same stylistic
    set with \"scripty\" theta, or you will make that set completely unusable.\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand, you have correctly noticed that Unicode itself breaks the idea
    of grouping \"scripty\" forms together in an alternate set by making loopy phi
    the default glyph. I would also mention the case of epsilon, which is very similar,
    as obviously the default 8-shaped form is more \"calligraphic\" than Porsonic
    (lunate) one. Practically this means it is impossible to be fully conform with
    the Unicode code chart if you want to make the default set of your Greek letters
    look really good together.\r\n\r\nFortunately the shapes shown in the codechart
    are by no means prescriptive. The difference between the \"default\" and \"alternate\"
    forms may be really important only in mathematical contexts, and the 'mgrk' feature
    can be used to resolve this problem. So there is actually no need to \"follow
    Unicode\" at this point."
  created: '2007-07-19 18:50:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the whole concept of connecting lines is peculiar to the Latin script
    and almost unknown for the Greek writing</em>\r\n\r\nI'm afraid I don't see it
    that way. IMO, ligatures are inherently connecting strokes used in cursive writing,
    and \"Byzantine\" Greek typography is full of them. A very basic instance: many
    fonts had an epsilon-iota ligature in which the normal \"flipped 3\" epsilon was
    replaced by a lunate form, with the central stroke \"ligaturing\" over to the
    iota.\r\n\r\n<em>they were always considered ligatures in the literature devoted
    to the history of the Greek printing.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm no expert on that.\r\nI
    have been influenced by C. S. Van Winkle's <em>The Printer's Guide</em> (Printer
    to the University of New York), 1818, see below.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Greek_4711.jpg]\r\n\r\n<em>The
    problem is that you cannot put Greek glyphs into the same set basing just on their
    shape and Unicode mappings, but ignoring the history of each particular letterform.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    a good point, and I was aware of the beta usage, and I will implement it contextually.\r\n\r\nNonetheless,
    I do think that the idea of grouping the scripty verisons into a stylistic set
    is practical, as it offers the typographer a choice between a plain, contemporary
    default, and a look which is older and more ornate. That is why I would make the
    Latin kappa the default. I will post some comparisons specimens shortly.\r\n\r\nI
    don't really consider my serif face to be in the German style, as it based on
    applying the structural forms of the mid-19th century American Scotch Modern to
    the Greek alphabet. When I did the same for Cyrillic, with no knowledge of 19th
    century Cyrillic faces, I subsequently discovered that the process produced results
    that were remarkably close to actual Cyrillic faces of the 19th century, so I
    have confidence in this approach."
  created: '2007-07-19 19:45:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Here's the comparison of default with the \"scripty\" stylistic set (although
    the beta usage requires fixing).\r\nThe idea is for the default to have a cool
    and modern repose, in relation to the more traditional liveliness of classical
    Greek typography, represented by the stylistic set.\r\n\r\nI would have taken
    this further and done a more mannered alternate of eta, were it not for the massive
    number of glyphs involved!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GreekComp_6029.jpg]"
  created: '2007-07-19 20:09:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "And here are the other stylistic sets, including the abbreviations.\r\nI've
    put the \"kai\" character in the archaic set, but perhaps it belongs with the
    abbreviations.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/variants_5633.jpg]"
  created: '2007-07-19 20:20:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>However, in the omicron-upsilon and sigma-tau combinations, the
    individual characters are lost in a composite form that quite literally abbreviates
    (removes) parts of the components.</em>\r\n\r\nBut this is true of very many of
    the Byzantine cursive 'ligatures', so unless one is going to invent some new term
    for them one has to accept two different kinds of ligatures. Terminologically,
    I sometimes use the distinction tying ligatures and morphographic ligatures.\r\n\r\nI
    don't think calling things like omicron_upsilon and sigma_tau 'abbreviations'
    is a good idea, because this is misleading. Abbreviation implies to me that letters
    are missing from the text, i.e. that the character string is abbreviated, regardless
    of how the resulting text is displayed. In the omicron_upsilon and sigma_tau ligatures,
    the two letters are very much present, even if they are not in their regular form.
    There are other sequences of both ligated and unligated letters in Greek and also
    in Latin that are actual abbreviations -- e.g. nomina sacra -- and these need
    to be independently analysed at an orthographic level, and hence at a text encoding
    level, not at the visual/glyph level."
  created: '2007-07-20 04:56:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: John, "abbreviation", meaning shortened, makes perfect typographic sense for
    these glyphs where two occupy the space usually taken by one. However, orthography
    takes precedence, so I'll follow Aleksey's and your advice and term them ligatures.
  created: '2007-07-20 06:32:38'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I seem to recall that Unicode's justification for the alternate forms of
    \u03B2, \u03C1, \u03BA, \u03C0, \u03C6, and \u03B8 is that the alternate glyphs
    are used by Greeks when they need to represent pi the number, as opposed to pi
    the letter.  I could be wrong, so a Greek here could correct me, but I'm pretty
    sure that that was the justification, just like the Fraktur letters are encoded,
    even though technically they are just a particular style of the Roman alphabet,
    they are used for specialty purposes in mathematics where they contrast with the
    Antiqua forms.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos
    damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2007-07-20 07:25:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The variant Greek letters are in Unicode because they occur in mathematics
    with distinct semantics. This is why the Unicode characters names refer to them
    'symbols' even though they have letter properties. This isn't about Greeks using
    the letters as numbers, but about mathematicians using them as symbols.\r\n\r\nGreeks
    traditionally did use letters as numbers, but so far as I can tell they did not
    favour particular variant forms for this purpose."
  created: '2007-07-20 17:50:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "That doesn't make sense John.\r\nLatin symbols with \"distinct semantics\"
    don't have a separate Unicode point. \r\nWhy two pi's (3.141...) and only one
    e (2.718...)?\r\nPerhaps that's a future project for Unicode workers :-)"
  created: '2007-07-20 20:55:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Latin symbols with \u201Cdistinct semantics\u201D don\u2019t have a separate
    Unicode point.</em>\r\n\r\nThey do for mathematics: \r\nhttp://www.unicode.org/charts/PDF/U1D400.pdf"
  created: '2007-07-20 21:18:26'
date: '2007-07-17 13:12:47'
title: Contextual Historic Ligatures?

---
