---
author:
  name: flinhardt
  picture: 110776
body: "Hi guys, here is a link to next years us presidents election candidate logos:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.4president.org/ocmi2008.htm\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nWho's
  hot and who's not?\r\nWhat do yo think? \r\n\r\n\r\nWhat type do you want to see
  on future presidential key arts? \r\nLet's discuss.\r\n\r\n\r\nBest, Flo\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: i love the vilsack logo! very 'underground'!
  created: '2007-07-22 22:51:22'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Obama at least has a creative logo chock full of symbolism: a rising sun
    over rolling plowed felds, and all that goes with it shaped like a big O. It's
    a pity the type isn't nearly as interesting.\r\n\r\nBut that Vilsack logo is great
    too. The rest of them all resort to American patriotic cliches, when they have
    an image at all. "
  created: '2007-07-23 00:25:07'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> i love the vilsack logo! \r\n\r\nThe announcement page has some odd kerning
    on the 'sac' of the top logo (or is that correct in some way us amateurs don't
    know about?):\r\n\r\nhttp://www.4president.org/speeches/tomvilsack2008announcement.htm"
  created: '2007-07-23 00:43:19'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Hillary: snooz.\r\n\r\nObama: I love the logo, but I have never liked it
    when an apostrophe is used in front of shortened dates, words, colloquialisms,
    etc.\r\n\r\nEdwards: That rising star gimmick would work a lot better if he had
    not sunk to blatant populism. \r\n\r\nRichardson: Fun type treatment and a cool
    logo. Nice stuff.\r\n\r\nDodd: Oh look, pointless letterspacing!\r\n\r\nBiden:
    Joe, everyone in town already knows about your giant ego. But you still can\u2019t
    be president.\r\n\r\nVilsack: I really loved this one. Too bad his campaign tanked.\r\n\r\nKucinich:
    Not remotely crazy enough to represent him.\r\n\r\nMcCain: Ok, Ok, I get it, you\u2019re
    a war hero.\r\n\r\nRudy: Still buying his own post 9/11 hype. \r\n\r\nRomney:
    So he\u2019s a viper disguised as an eagle? Backed by the USPS? Whatever, it has
    a vaguely corporate look, and that\u2019s better than most campaigns.\r\n\r\nHuckabee:
    As much as I get sick of all federal election materials being red, white, and
    blue, adding yellow was a stupid idea.\r\n\r\nTommy: That\u2019s right, Townsend
    and Daltry are back on tour! He\u2019s a pinball wizard...\r\n\r\nBrownback: A
    design that\u2019s almost as stupid as the candidate.\r\n\r\nHunter: Guess who
    hired a design team that only knows how to use Photoshop?\r\n\r\nTancredo: I think
    they just re-used the \"God Bless America\" sticker design that was stuck to every
    taxi cab and ethnic restaurant in America on 9/12/2001.\r\n\r\nGilmore: Yeah dude,
    we know that there\u2019s an election in 08. Maybe if you had hired a decent designer
    you might not have dropped out already.\r\n\r\nRon Paul: Conservative and simple,
    how appropriate. Too bad the kerning sucks.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-23 00:45:11'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "It's kind of sad to see that three of these stickers have the wrong apostrophe
    to the left of the \"08\"... The ones for Biden and Paul have an opening single
    quote instead of a closing one. Hunter's has the correct apostrophe, except that
    it's been flipped horizontally.\r\n\r\nI guess I shouldn't be surprised though...
    This kind of mistake is starting to crop up in high-profile ads and billboards,
    too."
  created: '2007-07-23 04:50:23'
- author:
    name: Comma
    picture: 112763
  body: 'I wish we had access to how much each designer was paid. Then later compare
    poll results. How many different ways can you use symbols of freedom... '
  created: '2007-07-23 07:23:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Most of them have that same old tired American Flag look. Too bad mediocrity
    is the catch phrase of american political image.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-23 16:05:44'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I miss Paul Tsongas.
  created: '2007-07-23 16:31:23'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Back when buying music on those shiny discs was a habit of mine, I'd often
    purchase music based purely on the cover art. I have to say, I was probably batting
    .700 or so via that method.\r\n\r\nSo, based on this...hmm...\r\n\r\nHilary is
    bold, iconic but not cliche even though it's using the stars and stripes. I like
    the fact that it's using her first name. Clever and probably a strategically good
    move. Type is nothing spectacular but feels very well balanced in relation to
    the mark.\r\n\r\nObama has the best logo...it's an actual logo...with a concept...and
    some cleverness. I might have to give him the lead. But the type is so weak in
    comparison. \r\n\r\nBut wait...Vilsack! Futura! Oh man, Futura...well played!
    Tempting...\r\n\r\nRudy...wow...look at the size of his ego.\r\n\r\nMcCain...subtle,
    but clever...\"look at me...I was in the military!\" (That really should be a
    plus for him right now...too bad he's been veering out of control for so long).\r\n\r\nEdwards,
    Richardson, Dodd, Biden, Kucinich, Romney, Huckabee, Thompson, Brownback, Hunter,
    Tancredo, Gilmore, Paul...*YAWN*...did you guys even try? You couldn't find ONE
    semi-design savvy intern to help you? Did you all share the same 'stars and stripes'
    clip art package?\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-23 16:32:50'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "I think Vilsack uses Eagle, not Futura.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2007-07-23 17:00:10'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I think Vilsack uses Eagle, not Futura.\"\r\n\r\nThe fact that it's \"eagle\"
    makes me think that the typeface was chosen solely for its name. ;o)\r\n\r\nWhew!
    I didn't want to vote for him anyways. ;o)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-23 17:46:35'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "This is almost enough to get me to vote for Vilsack, if only I had the faintest
    idea who he is!\r\n\r\nThe rest are pretty lame. Duncan Hunter in particular should
    fire his communications director.\r\n\r\nHmm. Stars and stripes, red white and
    blue, these logos are about as original as most of their campaign platforms.\r\n\r\nLots
    of Trajan among the dems - must be courting the Hollywood vote."
  created: '2007-07-24 05:10:30'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "patty-\r\nhave you seen the video short \"etched in stone\"? brilliant!\r\n\r\nhttp://www.veer.com/ideas/etched/"
  created: '2007-07-24 05:14:02'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: out of the dark clouds of an illegal presidency there is hope a new light
    shines. Obama
  created: '2007-07-24 09:33:05'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>have you seen the video short \u201Cetched in stone\u201D? brilliant!\r\n\r\nhttp://www.veer.com/ideas/etched/
    </cite>\r\n\r\nTo me the most brilliant part was the \"Gigantic\" movie poster.
    Taking a photo by a complete hack, and making it into something cool shows someone
    there has talent. I love it. I want to add it to my gallery, and I will watch
    it again to see if there is a hint of who I should credit."
  created: '2007-07-24 16:05:04'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "This one -- also by Cheshire Dave -- is <em> really</em> terrific!\r\n\r\nhttp://www.veer.com/ideas/btt/"
  created: '2007-07-24 16:37:03'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: i wish cheshire dave would make a full series of these... i love them, and
    i know my students all get a great kick out of them.
  created: '2007-07-24 16:45:22'
- author:
    name: Sam M
  body: "I love Obama and i think his logo is pretty good. I like the \"O\" symbol.\r\n\r\nHillary's
    is so standard and safe it makes me die a little bit. \r\n\r\nI'm most impressed
    by the simplicity of \"RUDY\". great strategy. Makes the best bumper sticker i
    think. McCain's veers away from the norm too in terms of design. \r\n\r\nVilsack
    - great typeface, bad design - that V is all you see. too much space in \"T O
    M\".  reads \"communist\"\r\n\r\nIts too bad none of them had the balls to get
    away from the red-white-and-blue cliche.\r\n\r\nS"
  created: '2007-07-24 20:06:31'
- author:
    name: flinhardt
    picture: 110776
  body: "do you think you have any chance to design a non-red-white-blue key art for
    a presidential campaign? if so? what colors would you use? what colors do you
    think are the right ones?\r\n\r\nBest, Flo"
  created: '2007-07-24 20:43:12'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: Red
  created: '2007-07-24 23:22:25'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pros_4191.gif]\r\n\r\nOf course I found
    the perfect font for the theme."
  created: '2007-07-25 01:58:32'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "To stand out, I would either go all black and white:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pforp1_4101.jpg]\r\n\r\n.\r\n\r\nOr
    I'd go for the green, anti-war, \"I don't spend a lot of money on graphics\" vote:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pforp_3576.jpg]\r\n\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2007-07-25 03:28:49'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "Is Hillary's theme song 'Let's party like it's 1999?' \r\n\r\n<i>it's not
    the 20th century girl!!!</i> Go Obama!!!!!!"
  created: '2007-07-25 11:41:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Is that Gary Puckett and the Union Gap?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-25 13:55:52'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "Isn't jpad's last name Puckett?  I liked his review of the logos so I decided
    to nominate him. No one can ever read my mind. :-)\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2007-07-25 13:57:42'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: Gotta say, I really like Rudy. Not the person, the type. Its the sort of boring
    that doesn't offend me. Not sure if I am supposed to read that other one as "Tom
    V. Vilsack", "Tom Vvilsack", but either way it looks reminds me of french comics,
    and I don't care for it here. I won't get into the rest, because my mood is darkening
    just thinking about it.
  created: '2007-07-25 18:03:57'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Mili, can you fix your end cite please? - \r\n\r\n>I just watched the film
    again, and in the credits Cheshire Dave is named for background and poster illustrations.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes,
    I found it, thanks. Somewhere else I saw his last name is Beckerman. \r\n\r\nThe
    patriotic version:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/prosbodoni_6232.gif]\r\n\r\nalternate:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/prosbodonicurvy_3506.gif]"
  created: '2007-07-26 00:27:31'
- author:
    name: mr
    picture: 112699
  body: "Didn't Vilsack steal that logo from some brand of jeans?\r\n\r\nI thought
    McCain's was pretty good: a different look. I'm not really into the military,
    but I think it's a good logo.\r\n\r\nObama has an actual logo, which is cool.\r\n\r\nIs
    Hunter campaigning to win the 1999 Internet? I think Gore already owns the internet
    since he invented it.\r\n\r\nBut what really made me sad were the apostrophes."
  created: '2007-07-26 09:24:30'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: He always goes by the name Cheshire Dave, though.
  created: '2007-07-26 14:02:44'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "I don't like Obama's logo. It looks like a butter label to me. Maybe that
    works for a politician.\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2007-07-26 17:37:41'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Fontplayer: \"To me the most brilliant part was the \u201CGigantic\u201D
    movie poster. Taking a photo by a complete hack, and making it into something
    cool shows someone there has talent. I love it. I want to add it to my gallery,
    and I will watch it again to see if there is a hint of who I should credit.\"\r\n\r\nI
    just watched the film again, and in the credits Cheshire Dave is named for background
    and poster illustrations.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nSorry, if this ends up in a wrong place
    in the thread. I changed the quoteing style, for I couldn't see the problem Fontplayer
    asked me to fix."
  created: '2007-07-26 17:58:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mili,\r\nIt appears that, since the new web server arrived, edited posts
    get pushed down to the last post with each edit and make the flow out of order.
    I don't know if this is intentional or just a bug.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-26 19:06:16'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>It appears that, since the new web server arrived, edited posts get
    pushed down to the last post with each edit and make the flow out of order. I
    don\u2019t know if this is intentional or just a bug.</cite>\r\n\r\nEither way
    I wish they'd go back to the old way."
  created: '2007-07-26 20:33:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I agree, Patty. I sent in a \"feedback\" post about it today as well.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-26 20:42:00'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: Chris, I was aware of the problem, hence the apologies ;^)
  created: '2007-07-27 19:15:31'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Didn\u2019t Vilsack steal that logo from some brand of jeans?</em>\r\n\r\nOr
    maybe from <a href=\"http://imagecache2.allposters.com/images/pic/MMPO/504026~V-For-Vendetta-Posters.jpg\"><strong>V
    for Vendetta</strong></a>."
  created: '2007-07-28 04:37:53'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: "You know where you've seen that Vilsack typeface before...\r\n\r\nVonnegut,
    anyone? This series of book covers is famous! Sure, different proportions and
    weight, but the right face, and very likely the influence for the designer. Thoughts?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/v_4931.jpg]"
  created: '2007-07-29 00:19:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Viceroy_5941.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/v-logo_4550.jpg]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-29 00:39:43'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: V for Victory is right! That's what his designer is probably shooting for.
    Anyway, the Vonnegut and Viceroy examples are way better than the V for Vendetta
    poster... and they've been around longer.
  created: '2007-07-29 05:08:31'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/V2_4312.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/V1_6458.gif]"
  created: '2007-07-29 07:38:42'
- author:
    name: mr
    picture: 112699
  body: I think it might be South African RiVer Trader, but I can't find their logo
    online (and the labels on the jeans themselves say "RT Denim", so I can't scan
    it).
  created: '2007-07-29 11:48:31'
- author:
    name: WurdBendur
    picture: 110861
  body: 'Steward and Colbert have better logo than these, and more of them. To wit:
    http://www.cafepress.com/buy/stewart%20colbert/'
  created: '2007-07-30 00:38:37'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "At the risk of giving a heart attack to a few here, I present my dream ticket.
    [img:sites/default/files/old-images/rush-ann_4832.gif]\r\n\r\nOk, just kidding.
    I'm really for Letterman/Leno.\r\n\r\nFranklin Gothic Heavy & Demi Italic\r\n\r\nOn
    second thought, just imagine what the press briefings would be like with Ann Coulter
    as Press Secretary. Her tact and diplomacy would have the press corps wrapped
    around her skinny little finger."
  created: '2007-07-30 06:10:35'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Her tact and diplomacy would have the press corps wrapped around her
    skinny little finger.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, to try and take a bite out of it. :-D"
  created: '2007-07-30 07:03:23'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Steward and Colbert have better logo than these, and more of them.</em>\r\n\r\n970
    designs, to be exact. Gulp! I like the <strong>WTF?</strong> designs..."
  created: '2007-07-30 07:11:27'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hvdcomicserif_5623.jpg]\r\n\r\nArt Director:
    James Arboghast"
  created: '2007-09-02 17:35:22'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "Clinton's and Richardson's look best to me. In average the Democratic ones
    are way better than the Republic ones.\r\n\r\nToo much symbolic elements in such
    a logo would only overcloud. Anything that doesn't trigger a reaction instantly
    is superfluous. However, the logo should at least give some hint that it's about
    the presidential race -- as opposed to any other arbitrary political race. This
    is where I think the Republican logos fall short."
  created: '2007-09-03 14:08:08'
- author:
    name: ndmike
    picture: 109528
  body: "I think the McCain star-studded design has more to do with the fact that
    he's from Arizona. (cf. star and colors on the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arizona_flag|Ariz.
    state flag]], though points off for using a [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seal_of_Texas|Texas
    star]])\r\n\r\nAnd, btw, I had no idea that [[http://us.imdb.com/title/tt0108002/|<em>he</em>
    was running]] for president!"
  created: '2007-09-04 04:36:29'
- author:
    name: outerone
  body: "I think the Obama log is the strongest, it seems like there was an actual
    good designer behind that one. \r\n\r\npoliticians could really benefit from good
    design. Sauli Niinist\xF6 was running for president of Finland a few years back
    and he hired Bob Helsinki to produce a campaing for him and they actually created
    something decent. Here are a few links:\r\nhttp://www.bobhelsinki.fi/asiakkaat/niinisto2.html\r\nhttp://www.bobhelsinki.fi/asiakkaat/niinisto1.html\r\nThey
    also created a Cafe for him as a promotional headquaters where people could get
    free coffee and learn about the candidate:\r\nhttp://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/fi/thumb/1/14/Caf\xE9_Niinist\xF6n_logo.svg/800px-Caf\xE9_Niinist\xF6n_logo.svg.png\r\n\r\nDoes
    anyone else know of any good design from politicians running for office around
    the world?"
  created: '2007-09-04 19:27:30'
- author:
    name: shamiko12
    picture: 113081
  body: "Think with the whole body and soul.\r\n\r\nGreat comments! I love it! Ha
    Ha...\r\nI think the objective of the campaign has to be Very Americano Feeling...
    to get that patriotic thing going... It has to fuction loud, clear and strong...
    and reflect the canidate... so no wimpy type... that spells Calvin Klien or too
    punk rocker feel....\r\n\r\nIn my opnion... a lot of these presently design slogans
    need designer's touch.... Why are we not helping them? Each of them needs some
    improvement. agreed? \r\n\r\nOf all serif type I like Hilary and Kucinich. Vilsack
    has potential... but need to be stronger. I can see the constructivist movement
    on the way! : )\r\n\r\nAD Shamiko\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-06 06:44:54'
- author:
    name: shamiko12
    picture: 113081
  body: Think with the whole body and soul.
  created: '2007-09-06 06:46:14'
- author:
    name: dohdoh
  body: "There was an article in Newsweek where Michael Bierut talked about them.
    \ \r\nI've seen different ones for Rudy and Romney (the ones he reviewed). And
    the Edwards logo on his site is different than what is on this link (as well as
    the newsweek article). It's Gotham not Ventura.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/19762070/site/newsweek/\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/070717_PeriRomney_hsmall_6739.small.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/rudy08_4671.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/h1-blur_6112.gif]"
  created: '2007-09-06 18:12:45'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Wow, they really need to think of something new. Most of them are pretty dull.
    The colorsheme doesn't help either.
  created: '2007-09-06 23:32:44'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: In the "Mitt '08" logo above (provided by dohdoh), I'm pretty sure they misused
    the opening single quote as an apostrophe -- it should be downwards instead of
    upwards.
  created: '2007-09-07 06:02:49'
date: '2007-07-22 22:38:28'
node_type: forum
title: Presidents of the USA

---
