---
author:
  name: JaneP
  picture: 112236
body: "Hi. \r\n\r\nSorry for the double question. Could amount to a jumbled thread.\r\n\r\nFirst:
  How are most of you handling a situation where you need to use a particular if you're
  following a client's design standards). Do most of you consider that a business
  expense or do you bill your client back but then you keep the font for your own
  use? Just a biz practice question.\r\n\r\nThe other is about license agreements.
  I do know they exist but I started reading some threads and was disturbed to find
  people questioning whether posting a pdf to a website is a violation of an agreement.
  I know it depends on the license but let's talk generalities.\r\n\r\nFor starters,
  back in the day when we didn't make pdfs for printing (I still don't unless asked)
  and we didn't have the option of NOT sending the font with the job to be printed,
  weren't we all violating license agreements? How does one get around it?\r\nExpect
  the printer to purchase the font for every designer's job?\r\n\r\nIs the question
  about pds, either posted to a website or given to a client for approval, a problem
  because someone could extract the font (I don't see how) or is the issue that they
  could edit and therefore \"use\" the font?\r\n\r\nIf the latter, they can't really
  create anything new with it so what's the big deal? Are people really having a workflow
  process where the constantly password protect pdf files?\r\n\r\nI have a client
  who is requiring me to send my print-ready files to their client and they won't
  take print-ready pdfs that I know of. How do I get around this? Only use fonts that
  we both already have on our systems?\r\n\r\nAny input would be much appreciated.\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I consider all fonts licensed a business expense.\r\n\r\nI only send PDFs
    to printers. It solves the problem of having to send fonts to printers. \r\n\r\nI
    also only give clients PDFs as proofs. I never give the client the raw materials.\r\n\r\nAnd,
    unfortunately, yes. We were all violating the EULAS to which we had agreed when
    licensing the fonts. O:^o\r\n\r\nThat is the rub. If you have to give the printer
    the files they must have a license to the fonts. The only other work-a-round is
    to only license fonts from foundries that allow this. There are very, very few
    of these foundries.\r\n\r\nIf you have to give the client the raw files then anyone
    who gets the file needs to have a license for the fonts. You can always build
    this into your estimate on the job and then license for them."
  created: '2007-07-26 02:33:20'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Most of the printers and publishers I know won't accept pdfs for the final
    job, they need the raw files either for last minute in-house changes or for back
    up. I think it's absurd that some foundries won't let you embed their fonts in
    pdfs and knowingly and willfully violate those EULAs.\r\n\r\nI don't bill clients
    for fonts if I plan to keep them for my own use, that isn't right. If it's a font
    I need to use for a specific job (requested by the client) then I require them
    to license the font for me and I don't keep it except in the backup file for the
    job."
  created: '2007-07-26 14:34:49'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Bill clients for fonts that are likely one-offs...only usable for that client.\r\n\r\nOtherwise,
    treat fonts as software--it's a business expense overhead."
  created: '2007-07-26 15:03:51'
- author:
    name: JaneP
    picture: 112236
  body: "Thanks all for your comments.\r\n\r\nA couple things: I looked at a couple
    licenses and there are many options for additional computers at\r\nthe same organization.
    Do most foundries have an add-on license for a font the client already has for
    example.\r\nOr is it usually necessary to purchase the font again for the designer.\r\n\r\nI
    guess I'm wondering which is cheaper. I can either purchase it myself and use
    it just for that client.\r\nOr they can add on a license. \r\n\r\nAlso, I'm still
    wondering about the past (even though it's better to look to the future). Did
    licenses change\r\nover the years? I'm still wondering how any of us ever got
    a job printed before the days of pdfs. Do type \r\nfoundries not expect us to
    get jobs printed? Did they really think that commerical printers would spring
    \r\nfor the fonts used in every designers' job?\r\n\r\nI'm not a newbie at this.
    But I've been breaking laws right and left for years I guess, just to get a job
    done.\r\nIt's just that now, different things have been coming up, like having
    to give some clients files.\r\nAnd then there's the prevalence of pdfs. I don't
    password protect pdfs from editing. I guess I should start.\r\nBut then again,
    no one edits my pdfs. They're only for proofing."
  created: '2007-07-26 17:47:13'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "In the past fonts were generally sent to the printer along with Quark files.\r\n\r\nPrinters
    would be hesitant to use any fonts they already owned to print your document,
    in case they were different versions - they might be for example slightly different
    widths and thus cause text reflow.\r\n\r\nIf asked the printer would generally
    claim they deleted your fonts immediately after outputting the job...\r\n\r\nWas
    surprised to note that FontFont/Fontshop's licence actually allows for a copy
    of the font to be given to the printer for output, as long as the document is
    not modified. "
  created: '2007-07-26 19:58:26'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Our EULA allows embedding in pdf for workflow issues and for sending jobs
    to the printer but not for commercial products like e-zines distributed via pdf.
    We also allow copies of our fonts to accompany jobs to the printer.\r\n\r\nIf
    any of you are going to TypeCon, be sure to ask me about a new licensing model
    we are beginning to offer to some of our clients.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2007-07-26 20:11:48'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Three cheers for FontFont and terminal design.\r\n\r\nWe've all been breaking
    laws left and right and that's because the EULAs are for the most part unnecessarily
    restrictive. It seems crazy to ask the printer to license the font for a job,
    and at whose expense? Just try getting a publisher to purchase multiple licenses
    for one job. \r\n\r\nIf there's an honor system, the printer will delete their
    copy of the font after the job is done, as will the client unless they have their
    own license. To expect everyone who handles a file to purchase a license seems
    excessive and impractical. If the client plans to continue to use the font after
    you deliver the file they should by law purchase their own license, and so should
    you if you plan to go on using a font given you by a client. \r\n\r\nI didn't
    know the first thing about EULAs until I started hanging out at this forum and
    I still don't bother to read them line for line when I buy a font. I really wish
    the foundries would make their licenses more in line with how fonts are actually
    used (embedded in PDFs, sent to printers with the files) then we wouldn't all
    be criminals.\r\n\r\nI have one publishing client who gives me a list of fonts
    they already have licensed. I can only use those - fair enough since it's a good
    list. If I don't already have the font they'll give it to me if I sign a document
    promising to delete it from my hard drive when the job is completed, but I still
    preserve a copy of the font in the archive for the job just in case. I betcha
    they aren't buying additional licenses for the printer."
  created: '2007-07-26 20:21:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think most people want to do the right thing by the EULA but they also
    want to get their work done. There has to be reasonable EULAs written to make
    it work or there will continue to be willful countering of EULAs.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-26 20:46:48'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "That's my point. There will always be piracy but most of us would like to
    abide by the EULAS. The foundries need designers and if they make their EULAs
    too restrictive, then either people won't buy the fonts or they'll just violate
    the EULA in the name of getting the job done.\r\n\r\nAnd for the record, I do
    tell my clients they are legally required to license the fonts I use. But I don't
    police them."
  created: '2007-07-26 21:13:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I don't think anyone can expect a graphic designer or type user to be the
    police. Thanks Patty!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-26 21:18:17'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Patty, you've bemoaned House Industries's EULA in the past, but they recently
    updated it. Non-commercial embedding is now allowed.
  created: '2007-07-26 22:24:17'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: That's a start. How about sending it to the printer along with the job?
  created: '2007-07-26 23:13:56'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Non-commercial embedding. That should be easy to enforce.\r\n\r\nIt's ridiculous.
    I just try to use my conscience and remember that there is someone like me at
    the end of the font chain - let me rephrase that - someone sort of like me - I
    don't want to insult anyone\u2026\_:)\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-07-26 23:23:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That's ok Paul, I know what a terrible insult that would be :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-26 23:26:56'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Thanks for the kindescension Chris! :)\r\n\r\nOr is it the commiserableation?\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-07-27 01:56:46'
- author:
    name: Gary Long
    picture: 112662
  body: "Most EULAs allow you to sell your font licence (e.g. if you sell your business)
    and, presumably, also give it away, provided certain conditions are met, such
    as deleting the files from your own system. So if a EULA forbids sending fonts
    to a printer, or embedding them in a pdf for printing*, I suppose you could technically
    transfer ownership of the font to the printer for the time they require it, then
    have them transfer it back. That's the rationale I use for violating EULAs in
    this regard, though I don't actually go through these transfer steps.\r\n\r\n*One
    major book manufacturer I deal with prefers jobs submitted as pdfs and actually
    offers a small discount if they are. I know they have the Adobe Library, but very
    much doubt if they have licences for the collections of the many small foundries
    whose fonts I tend to use. "
  created: '2007-07-27 02:42:15'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I only send PDFs and haven't been in a situation in InDesign where it wouldn't
    let me embed - if a font every had it's permissions set so ID couldn't embed it
    - I would have to stop using it.\r\n\r\nI wish there was a published list of such
    foundries so I could avoid them. If they are not embeddable they are not useful
    to me at all.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-07-27 03:10:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I know they have the Adobe Library, but very much doubt if they have licenses
    for the collections of the many small foundries whose fonts I tend to use.\"\r\n\r\nThis
    is part of the problem. There was a time when the Adobe collection was a pretty
    big chunk of the PostScript fonts out there. Today, many more players are in the
    game. A printer who had spent the bucks for the Adobe collection figured he had
    made his type investment. He figured there would be plenty of repeat uses of most
    of those faces. Now, with many thousands more possible font choices, a printer
    isn't so sure he will get repeats from small foundry fonts so he is less likely
    to purchase them and depend on the customer to supply them for his print job.
    Embedded pdf files seem like the solution to the printer's dilemma. The trouble
    comes when clients require native files.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-27 03:17:08'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: My clients nearly all require native files. It's extremely rare in book publishing
    to send pdfs to the printer.
  created: '2007-07-27 03:33:12'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Actually, it is more like 50% of all foundries allow transferring. It is dangerous
    to generalize about stuff like that. And, NONE of the foundries allow you to give
    the fonts away.
  created: '2007-07-27 04:08:04'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Foundries make EULAs that we cannot follow no matter what our intentions.
    It reminds one of the government.\r\n\r\nMaybe your next book could be rasterized
    Patty. Maybe a hires jpeg? :)\r\n\r\nOr is that against the rules?\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-07-27 05:39:55'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: My point is they are only hurting themselves. Until there is a way to digitally
    protect fonts - which I'm sure is in development - we'll continue to use them
    as we need to, whether it is in compliance with the EULA or not. If the EULAs
    were more end-user-friendly, everyone would benefit. If I'm going to pay for a
    font, I need to be able to actually do my work with it, not just admire it on
    my computer.
  created: '2007-07-27 05:51:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Embed_4864.jpg]\r\n\r\nThese are the
    options in FontLab.\r\nGiven the prevalence of the pdf workflow these days, many
    foundries choose option 1; I do."
  created: '2007-07-27 06:10:44'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Patty/Aluminum: I don't think it's wrong to bill the client for job related
    expenses, including font licenses. I see it less like the design software used
    to create a design, and more like royalty-free stock photography. If I license
    a photo for a job, and then find use for it again later, fine (assuming it's not
    rights managed). This is different than a PMS swatchbook. I won't bill (directly)
    for a swatchbook since it is a tool, like a printer, or a desk, or pencils. Those
    things you need to be in business. Fonts, you need for a particular job, so bill
    to that job.\r\n\r\nActually, I think this approach violates most EULA's less
    than having the client license, you use, then give to them at the end of the job
    (effectively a license transfer -- usually a no no).  If the client also needs
    to use a font, we will each purchase a license.\r\n\r\nJaneP: I think that if
    a client requires you to use a typeface for their branding program, they either
    need to have a license that allows them to distribute the font to contractors,
    or you should bill them for the license. Attn all New Yorkers (others, google):
    consider if Dr. Jonathan Zizmore (board certified dermatologist) was your client.
    You'd be on the hook for at least 50 fonts just to modify one ad. Dr. and Mrs.
    Z would then, of course, salute graphic designers for their courage! I digress.\r\n\r\nRandy"
  created: '2007-07-27 07:03:03'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Paul Cutler -- <cite>Foundries make EULAs that we cannot follow no matter
    what our intentions.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt is hard to formulate such that it is understandable
    and at the same time covers possibilities not anticipated by the author. Unfortunately,
    reading is a very creative process too.  :)\r\nProof of this:\r\n\r\nGary Long
    -- <cite>I suppose you could technically transfer ownership of the font to the
    printer for the time they require it, then have them transfer it back. That\u2019s
    the rationale I use for violating EULAs in this regard, though I don\u2019t actually
    go through these transfer steps.</cite>\r\n\r\nTransferring of <cite>usage rights</cite>
    (not <cite>ownership</cite>) most of the time requires that you let the foundry
    know. \r\nBy your rationale you could as well 'share' fonts with family and friends,
    claiming that you do not use the fonts at exactly the same time ...\r\n\r\nMy
    impression is that more and more foundries allow giving font files to the printer
    without need for an extra license (assuming fonts will be deleted if the job is
    done). I allow it, Village allows it, and the first foundry where I found this
    years ago was TEFF who had an agreement PDF to be printed out by the designer
    and signed by the printer -- a very nice way to remind the printer that it is
    not mere words but meant seriously."
  created: '2007-07-27 07:17:04'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: Appologies, I need to read more carefully. The EULA queen says ~ 50% allow
    transfering, so it sounds like the "designer uses only for the project, then transfers
    to client" approach can work. But I still hold that it is ethical to bill font
    licensing to clients even if you may use that font on other projects later.
  created: '2007-07-27 07:48:36'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Stock photography is an interesting comparison. If a photo is purchased for
    a job, it \"travels\" with the job, from designer to client to printer. You don't
    need three separate licenses. HOWEVER, the difference is the photo is only used
    once, and you need to pay again if you want to use it again, while theoretically
    everyone who comes into contact with the font could potentially put it on their
    server and continue to use it. I'd like to see arrangements for font licensing
    that allow the font to travel with the stipulation that it be removed from servers
    and font management software upon completion of the job. I realize this is hard
    to enforce, but so are the current EULAs which is why we all violate them.\r\n\r\nAnyway
    it seems more and more foundries are allowing both PDF embedding and giving the
    fonts to the printer so maybe this is moot.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-27 14:04:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "To me, the driving point is that we should not handcuff our good paying and
    honest customers in an attempt to shackle font pirates. This is no easy task,
    granted.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-27 14:22:01'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Is there an overall figure for what economic impact piracy has on the font
    industry? \r\n\r\nand\r\n\r\nHave things gotten better or worse? Just wondering\u2026\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-07-27 16:16:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I don't think that there is a real reliable way to know piracy percentage
    figures. There have been estimates which differ with the sources.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-27 16:21:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What constitutes draconian? A visit from Uncle Tony? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-27 16:37:06'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: A visit to Dr.Z? :-)
  created: '2007-07-27 17:28:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Randy,\r\nForgive this off-topic intrusion but I ressponded to your email
    a couple of weeks ago and it bounced back as undeliverable. Was that a temporary
    hickup? Should I just resend it?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-27 17:33:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Not so sure about the 10% commission, James.\r\nHow do design firms in the
    US usually charge for passing on third party costs (eg printing) -- markup or
    kickback?"
  created: '2007-07-27 17:43:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I have usually charged the client a markup for printing if I paid for it
    and took the risk of repayment. I also provided a value-added service by getting
    bids, doing the selection and press check. If I did not procure printing for a
    client, I would charge hours for press and proof checks.\r\nThis may not transfer
    the same way with type purchase.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-27 17:49:39'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I charge an arm and a leg for anything that qualifies as "production" either
    procuring printing or handling it myself, mostly because I HATE that part of the
    job. In fact I charge so much that the client usually takes over the production
    process (finding printers, getting bids, etc) themselves. Luckily it's rare in
    book publishing. I don't take a kickback, but I know people who do.
  created: '2007-07-27 18:18:43'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" I really wish the foundries would make their licenses more in line with
    how fonts are actually used (embedded in PDFs, sent to printers with the files)
    then we wouldn\u2019t <em><strong>all be criminals.\"</em></strong>\r\n\r\nBook
    publishing is different, criminalality-wise. The:<em>\"Most of the printers and
    publishers [you] know [who] won\u2019t accept pdfs for the final job, [because]
    they need the raw files either for last minute in-house changes or for back up,\"
    </em> \u2014 are using the fonts to make final touches to the composition, and
    they should  pay. The fonts that need be best meet the clients who need be cheapest,
    and I don't have a standard licensing answer for you beyond our 2-5 cpu.\r\n\r\nThe
    fonts are \"actually used\" in most instances when they are specified and fit
    to the spatial requirements of the composition. It was a long struggle to make
    it work, for both graphic and type designers. The decision for myself and other
    type designers, and we all agreed against most current practice, was that our
    license would be for a cpu, not a printer as is was most other places for a long
    time before, but not long after.\r\n\r\nPDF embedding was introduced later, with
    what we considered a violation of the millennium copyright act, being that it
    treated legacy fonts with no embedding bit, our copyrighted font software, as
    editable embeddable. So we had <strong>no </strong>choice from the beginning but
    to control the embedding abilities of our fonts. We offer, in our basic license,
    basic, practical embedding rights and I've just requested a link to more rights
    when needed in our online eula. \r\n\r\n<em>...working to decriminalize type users,
    one type use at a time.</em>\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-07-27 21:17:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Or perhaps: \"working to not prosecute all of the innocent just to get a
    few of the guilty.\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-07-27 21:36:26'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Nevermind.
  created: '2007-07-28 02:23:06'
- author:
    name: patricking
    picture: 111718
  body: "the tone of this thread is really interesting; as recently as 2000 there
    would have been a lot more histrionics. the feeling at that point was that piracy
    was sinking the typographic industry, and coherent conversation was pretty difficult.\r\n\r\nalso,
    i don't think it was nearly as diverse then as it is now. the current playing
    field includes a lot more independent developers with great products than used
    to.\r\n\r\njust to chime in on charging clients: i always wondered, if licensing
    is a usage fee and not a software purchase, why many foundries don't include a
    simple way on their sites to add-on to their licenses without actually buying
    a new piece of software or new license. it kinda seems like it would be desirable,
    once you've purchased your faces and passed them onto the client, that there should
    be a way to keep up with how many clients have x font.\r\n\r\nterminal: would
    love to hear about your ideas on licensing models, and whatever new it is you
    have cooking."
  created: '2007-07-28 21:36:05'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I take it from your comment Patrick that things are getting better - a question
    I asked before and never got answered. I hope that is the case\u2026\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-07-28 22:56:05'
- author:
    name: patricking
    picture: 111718
  body: i don't know if they actually <em>are</em> getting better; i don't try to
    run a foundry as a business. i used to work with thirstype (which has since been
    absorbed by village). it was never a particularly swift business.
  created: '2007-07-29 01:03:07'
date: '2007-07-26 01:39:22'
node_type: forum
title: Who pays for the font? And how to abide by license agreements.

---
