---
author:
  name: fathairyape
  picture: 111805
body: "Well. The time has come. I am asking you (politely, of course :D), what you
  think the most readable serif font is on Earth. Or maybe not on Earth, just in your
  opinion. Please note that when I mean readable I mean in the sense of viewing in
  a program such as Microsoft Word.\r\n\r\nLet's hear 'em!\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: "I\u2019d love to see some extraterrestrial typefaces."
  created: '2007-07-30 16:50:23'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: So you are asking about the readability and not the legibility of not print
    but on-screen type? Georgia?
  created: '2007-07-30 17:00:13'
- author:
    name: brett jordan
    picture: 112129
  body: ":-), good point conor... roswell maybe?\r\n\r\nto quote emigre/licko...\r\n\r\n\"legibility
    is not an intrinsic quality of type but something acquired through use\"\r\n\r\nso,
    find out what your target group read the most, and then choose a typeface that
    is close to the majorities characters\r\n\r\nmy preferences are the older serifs...
    caslon, garamond, aries... somehow they blend into the background, allowing you
    to follow the words, rather than noticing the shapes of the text... but that might
    just be another 'acquired by use' thing\r\n\r\nalthough, if you are using word,
    you'll be stuck with its 'if i can't find it, i'll use something else anyway'
    conventions!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-30 17:07:08'
- author:
    name: fathairyape
    picture: 111805
  body: "Yeah, Brett. It will be a .pdf file if anyone else reads it--but mainly mostly
    for myself.\r\n\r\n-- David"
  created: '2007-07-30 17:10:13'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "I'm guessing you want the most readable serif font in the world when set
    in English. I'd go with one of the older serifs as well. Maybe Goudy Old Style.
    Or Baskerville. \r\n\r\nAnd I'd offer the qualification that a word processing
    application doesn't have the typographic wherewithall to offer the most readable
    setting."
  created: '2007-07-30 17:33:52'
- author:
    name: fathairyape
    picture: 111805
  body: "Now, I never said English! (Pero yo olvide escribirlo) Er... :)\r\n\r\n--
    David"
  created: '2007-07-30 17:59:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "David, for quite a period of time Caslon had the reputation of being the
    most readable--for print, of course. Printers said 'When in doubt, use Caslon.'
    And George Bernard Shaw insisted all his plays be published in Caslon, for readability.
    The digital versions haven't quite had the magic of the metal versions, though.
    When my new digital Caslon comes out, I hope people will want to give Caslon the
    crown again. At least that is my goal. \r\n\r\nOf course the screen is a completely
    different animal..."
  created: '2007-07-30 18:21:16'
- author:
    name: Artform
    picture: 112802
  body: "I fell in love with Perpetua last year. I saw it in a book on Typography
    and had to get my hands on it. Aside from Perpetua, I use Baskerville quite often.\r\n\r\nA.Sagarwala\r\n--\r\nFocus
    beyond the dot of the i."
  created: '2007-07-30 18:32:20'
- author:
    name: Gary Long
    picture: 112662
  body: Pretty hard to beat Baskerville, and you can set just about any subject matter
    with it. But you need a good cut, such as Storm's.
  created: '2007-07-30 19:31:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I think Perpetua is beautiful but hard to read in small sizes--because of
    its small x-height, high contrast and sharp terminals. \r\n\r\nBaskerville is
    indeed hard to beat for readability, but it is a wide typeface, and so not suitable
    for many settings. Some digital versions are also too light, depending on how
    it is printed..."
  created: '2007-07-30 19:50:57'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: All the Dr. Seus books are set in Century Schoolbook for legibility...
  created: '2007-07-30 19:57:07'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"readable I mean in the sense of viewing in a program such as Microsoft
    Word.\"\r\n\r\nMac or Windows?"
  created: '2007-07-30 21:38:51'
- author:
    name: lapiak
    picture: 111789
  body: From what I've read, it's hard to beat Garamond. Personally, I love how Utopia
    flows.
  created: '2007-07-30 21:52:50'
- author:
    name: fathairyape
    picture: 111805
  body: "dberlow: I didn't think there would be a difference between the two in readability,
    but now I understand that you mean font files that'd work for Mac and not Windows
    (and the other way around, of course). Being a Windows user, I'd have to say that
    Windows would be helpful, but fonts for Mac are exciting, too :).\r\n\r\n-- David"
  created: '2007-07-30 23:33:51'
- author:
    name: sloopelan
  body: "New to the group (yesterday) this is a great subject because we're about
    to start on seven new logos (OTC meds) and the main job is \"ease of read\" during
    that 1-second glance of the shelf. \r\nI am not a designer but if you had to pick
    one font and the objective is the \"1-second glance\" - what would be the font
    of choice.\r\n\r\nThe longest brand name is 6 letters long. The box is 2 1/4 inch
    wide by 5 1/4 high.\r\nYour input isn't just welcomed but also respected.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-07-30 23:34:02'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>New to the group (yesterday) this is a great subject because we\u2019re
    about to start on seven new logos (OTC meds) and the main job is \u201Cease of
    read\u201D during that 1-second glance of the shelf.\r\nI am not a designer but
    if you had to pick one font and the objective is the \u201C1-second glance\u201D
    - what would be the font of choice. The longest brand name is 6 letters long.
    The box is 2 1/4 inch wide by 5 1/4 high.\r\nYour input isn\u2019t just welcomed
    but also respected.</cite>\r\n\r\nMost of the thread is about a longer passage
    of text\u2014extended reading.\r\n\r\nYour situation is different. I can't tell
    you how to work it out, but with that narrow width you probably want some humanist
    sans that has characters more on the narrow side. With issues as to shelf height,
    recognition distance, etc. you may want to make some test mock-ups and get opinions
    from the people you are working with."
  created: '2007-07-30 23:57:56'
- author:
    name: shawkash
    picture: 110759
  body: "Georgia for screens in general. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-07-31 01:30:50'
- author:
    name: Ex Libris
    picture: 112255
  body: I concur that Georgia is tops for viewing on screen, but to me it looks too
    dark in print. It works great for on-screen forms in MS Access. Palatino Linotype
    reads well in MS Word on a Windows machine. I've personally been using Mercury
    Text for the past year for all of my reports and other mundane paperwork because
    it outputs well on the inexpensive laser printer my employer provides. It's a
    little light on the screen, but not bad. The one problem I have with Mercury (or
    most other typefaces, for that matter) is that Word doesn't handle ligatures -
    especially noticeable with the Mercury italic.
  created: '2007-07-31 03:02:29'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "First of all, I see confusion between \"legibility\" and \"readability\".
    Not to oversimplify, legibility is the ability to decipher in adverse conditions,
    such as poor lighting, fog, visual impairment, etc. The gold standard for legibility
    ought to be ClearView, which was designed for road signage, and has some impressive
    research backing it up. Of course, other contenders such as Frutiger are perfectly
    viable alternatives.\r\n\r\nI assume \"readability\" to mean performance in an
    immersive reading environment, meaning in a nice long passage of text, in a comfortable
    chair, with good lighting etc. It's harder to quantify what \"performance\" even
    means (unlike a road sign, where you have a good decipher / no decipher test),
    but I take it to mean the combination of reading speed and comprehension.\r\n\r\nThe
    science on readability is sparse in the extreme, but for print, I think it's hard
    to beat any of the classic metal Monotype (and Lino) faces: Baskerville, Bembo,
    Sabon, Caledonia. As William points out, Caslon is also very nice, but there are
    many different cuts, and not all are especially nice, especially the digital ones.
    Similarly for Garamond. The Harry Potter books are set in the Adobe version, which
    is pretty good, but I did not like the spacing. Oh, and by the way, for both legibility
    and readability, spacing is even more important than the shape of the letterforms
    themselves.\r\n\r\nOn screen, it starts depending a lot on the rendering technology.
    Georgia is a pretty good bet, though. On Vista, I think Constantia is likely to
    be a pleasant and readable font, but I haven't spent enough time with it to say
    for sure.\r\n\r\nBest of luck!"
  created: '2007-07-31 06:06:47'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I think most people missed the point that you were asking about viewing *on
    screen* in Word.\r\n\r\nHowever, you also need to specify the operating system
    version and other considerations - if Windows XP, whether CoolType is on.\r\n\r\nIf
    one were to assume XP with default settings (no CoolType) then I'd be inclined
    to suggest Georgia and Verdana are top choices.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-07-31 06:19:45'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "David:\r\n\"...I\u2019d have to say that Windows would be helpful,\" \r\nSo
    then, what version of windows? and what setting do you normal use in \"appearance
    settings?\" and...*\r\n\r\n\"I understand that you mean font files that\u2019d
    work for Mac and not Windows...\"\r\nand more than that, most who just shout out
    typeface names, don't perhaps realize it is a font you are looking for ;)\r\n\r\nSo,
    I try to get the specification down to a size* or a small range thereof before
    I make specific recommendations, ever, these daze.\r\n\r\nOtherwise, I might say
    something funny, like, \"The Most Readable Serif Font on Earth would have to be
    Verdana.\"\r\n\r\nCheers! \r\n"
  created: '2007-07-31 11:26:09'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Oops, yes, somehow I had lost track of that part of the request in reading
    through the thread.\r\n\r\n(Yes, my three-year-old daughter knows the difference
    between serif and sans serif by heart, but seemingly I do not.)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-08-01 19:23:45'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: Whichever one is biggest.
  created: '2007-08-01 19:35:26'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: I like them all. Maybe it's Century Schoolbook, but opinions will differ.
    I'm pretty sure I've recently digitized the crappiest, least-readable serif ever
    though. It needs a TON of woodshedding before I'm even willing to bring it into
    the critique forum...
  created: '2007-08-01 23:27:04'
- author:
    name: foldingdummy
    picture: 112302
  body: "Within the new group of OpenType typefaces released just recently with Vista
    and Office2007, I really like Cambria. A _lot_! In some ways, it reminds me of
    Cheltenham, which I love and have always thought was a great onscreen typeface.\r\n\r\nThese
    new fonts were specifically designed for reading onscreen. They have larger, more
    open counters and less difference between the thinner and thicker strokes (more
    like Old Style, in this regard). \r\n\r\nNonetheless, I do find the \"3 Ls\" --
    letterspacing, leading, and line length -- to have AS MUCH to do with readability
    onscreen as font choice. \r\n\r\nPoint size is an issue too, if you are reading
    onscreen, because your monitor/display is much lower res than the clarity obtainable
    in print. I would _hate_ bodycopy larger than 10 point in print, but sometimes
    even 13 point is easier to read on the computer. Somewhere between 11 and 13 point
    is often where the thickness of the strokes onscreen \"jump\" from one-pixel-thick
    to two-pixels-thick. This threshold has a lot to do with clarity and type color
    within each paragraph.\r\n\r\nAnd, as was mentioned above, depending on your monitor,
    ClearType may be a help. Same goes for the font smoothing options in Acrobat Reader.
    But this is an interaction between the technology and personal taste. I always
    turn them OFF for small type sizes. YMMV."
  created: '2007-08-02 00:08:37'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "\"All the Dr. Seuss books are set in Century Schoolbook for legibility...\"\r\n\r\nThis
    is something I've always wondered about. I'm not sure that an experienced designer
    made the decision to use Century Schoolbook because it's \"more legible\" for
    beginning readers. I wonder if the choice has as much to do with the name having
    \"Schoolbook\" in it, so the assumption is made that it's supposed to be more
    acceptable for beginning readers.\r\n\r\nJason C   "
  created: '2007-08-02 17:24:45'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> I wonder if the choice has as much to do with the name having \u201CSchoolbook\u201D
    in it, so the assumption is made that it\u2019s supposed to be more acceptable
    for beginning readers.\r\n\r\nAh yes, Marketing 101."
  created: '2007-08-02 18:22:00'
- author:
    name: Mark Typo
  body: "Has there been a study on which fonts tend to be more legible and or readable
    for dyslexics. I am dyslexic and read blocks of text at a painfully slow rate.
    It is impossible for me to simply recognizes words and groups of words without
    actually reading each one letter by letter. I do find clearview to be far easier
    for me read than other fonts. I guess the aspects that it was designed to address
    maybe similar to those that inflict me. Most words in our environment don't register
    with me, for unless I read them they have no meaning. I believe most people walk
    through life reading everything that passes though their field of vision, whether
    they want to or not, but if I were to try and read every passing word It would
    be crippling. I wonder if a font that could help dyslexia would also provide a
    normal reader with greater speed and comprehension as well? Especially if it were
    used in text book.\r\n\r\np.s.- I had to look up the spelling of dyslexia for
    the spell checker had no suggestions for the word I originally spelled. If you
    are naming a disability that effects a person ability to read and write words,
    why pick a word that is a terror to spell.  Why not \"It\", \"At\", \"Cat\", \"Dog\",
    or \"Tim\". All of these were needled into my toddler brain a million times over
    and they were the only ones I didn't have trouble with. Yes, I have Tim, thank
    you very much. Don't ask ME to spell that word, I am Timic, look it up."
  created: '2007-08-03 06:23:39'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "><em>I have Tim</em> oi :)\r\nThere are many threads about legibility and
    readability, and some about dyslexia. Out of interest how do you look up the spelling?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/15692\r\n\r\nhttp://www.google.com/search?client=safari&rls=en&q=dyslexia+site:typophile.com&ie=UTF-8&oe=UTF-8\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-08-03 08:26:25'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Mark\r\n\r\nLighthouse International does a lot of research on reading, particularly
    with disabilities. You should be able to google them."
  created: '2007-08-03 15:33:22'
- author:
    name: Mark Typo
  body: "Thanks Tim and Don,\r\n   Very interesting stuff. as or spelling, I look
    up words that I can't come close to spelling correctly by doing and associated
    google search. For example to look up dyslexia I would google reading disability,
    select site that would list these disabilities and find the spelling I need. It
    works very well but you need to run the word through the spell check anyway, not
    everyone has the best editor especially the .org's. We may not be able to spell
    but we sure can problem solve. "
  created: '2007-08-03 17:13:38'
- author:
    name: Sans Serif is for Europeans
    picture: 112228
  body: "As far as most readable I'd probably say Bodoni MT or Times New Roman. Most
    readable with pizazz, Gilibert. http://www.identifont.com/samples/protiment/Gilibert.gif\r\n----\r\nSans
    Serif is Grotesque."
  created: '2007-08-03 18:28:27'
- author:
    name: kuroneko
    picture: 112403
  body: I vote for Times too.
  created: '2007-08-03 22:57:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Please note that when I mean readable I mean in the sense of viewing
    in a program such as Microsoft Word.</em>\r\n\r\nGeorgia, but be sure to adjust
    the interline spacing appropriately for the measure (width of text block). The
    default linespacing determined by the font vertical metrics in Georgia (and Verdana)
    is too tight and needs to be increased even in quite narrow measures."
  created: '2007-08-04 01:29:58'
- author:
    name: verdiinpink
    picture: 111397
  body: "In my opinion, the most readable serif in displaying on screen with MS Word
    on Windows XP and Smooth font setting on would be Century Schoolbook because of
    its clear contrast and nice shape. The second rank goes to Georgia, though in
    print it is a little bold. Third is Times New Roman, I have to admit that it may
    not be the most beautiful but it is readable at small size on screen even with
    anti-alaising mode off. Cambria and Segoe Print, which are pre-loaded in Vista
    are also great.\r\n\r\nFor Mac OSX, I'd say Adobe Garamond, Hoefler Text and Century
    Schoolbook are my choice. Baskerville and Caslon as some mentioned earlier that
    the digital versions may not fully be appreciated as the original but they are
    still of good quality.\r\n\r\nMaybe you might need to compare different typefaces
    of choice on screen and do some survey on your colleagues to finally decide the
    winner.\r\n\r\n\r\n--- pinky winky kinky ---"
  created: '2007-08-04 07:54:05'
- author:
    name: KateGladstone
    picture: 115881
  body: 'You might want to read "Through the eyes of a child: Perception and type
    design" by Rosemary Sassoon in COMPUTERS AND TYPOGRAPHY (Oxford [UK]: Intellect
    Books, 1993) which she edited: font legibility tests to design a font for children''s
    books. Early versions of Adobe''s Sassoon font-family came out of the research
    detailed in that chapter.'
  created: '2008-09-21 20:32:03'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "<em>I wonder if the choice has as much to do with the name having \u201CSchoolbook\u201D
    in it, so the assumption is made that it\u2019s supposed to be more acceptable
    for beginning readers.</em>\r\n\r\nthat's possible, of course.  but hopefully
    not the case. for instance, i think few designers (experienced or otherwise) would
    choose Century Gothic for a book on castles, despite the name."
  created: '2008-09-22 19:46:52'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite> \u201Clegibility is not an intrinsic quality of type but something
    acquired through use\u201D </cite>\r\n\r\nThis is demonstrably false. Which is
    not to say that there is no role of familiarity, but the idea that there is no
    such thing as intrinsic legibility is just silly.\r\n\r\nLast week at the TypeTech
    section of the ATypI conference in St Petersburg, Karin von Ompteda gave a really
    good presentation about legibility research that specifically tries to ferret
    out what exact qualities of type contribute to legibility, focusing on the work
    of Arditi. His stuff is significantly flawed, but still gives inspiration for
    more useful work... such as what Karin is planning.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-09-24 05:48:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thomas, is this presentation available in some form on line? '
  created: '2008-09-24 14:49:34'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Not that I'm aware of. My recollection is that it would need the verbal part
    as well as the slides to be meaningful.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-09-25 18:37:25'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "My guess is  any darker face with a (relatively) large x-height, if we're
    talking about print.\r\n\r\nI think it could be as simple as that, really."
  created: '2008-10-04 02:36:22'
date: '2007-07-30 16:46:04'
title: Most Readable Serif Font on Earth

---
