---
author:
  name: Mark Typo
body: "I am a recent grad and in my final class I had a teacher who I and many of
  the students butted heads. I don't believe her to be a great designer and she consistently
  tried to force the students to produce work to her own taste as oppose to developing
  their own voice. This is all beside the point, I am posting here for she gave me
  and the students advice that I would think to be career ending. She said to find
  type faces by any means necessary and use them in our work, I think this is fine
  as long as it is just for student purposes and the work never goes to print. How
  ever she also stated that in all the years of her own career she has payed for only
  two or three fonts herself. When asked about the legal ramifications of this practice
  she simply stated \"who is going to check.\" I know this is absolutely wrong and
  would never do this myself not only because it is immoral but what would happen
  if someone did find out. What are the penalties for doing such a thing and how do
  people like her get away with it for so long? \r\n-Thanks"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Pro-piracy attitudes from design teachers are pretty common in my experience,
    albeit not this blatantly. \r\n\r\nAs for the penalties, well, a good IP litigator
    will run you at least $300 an hour, if he likes you. One who can deal with the
    law surrounding fonts is probably even more. And the bad press that comes from
    suing (perceived) customers can be really nasty, so going after individual fonts
    pirates is sort of a lost cause. "
  created: '2007-08-01 06:33:14'
- author:
    name: russ_mcmullin
    picture: 112437
  body: Font piracy aside, I question the ethics of a person who pursues a personal
    vendetta in a public forum. Posting her site was in very poor taste in my opinion.
  created: '2007-08-01 06:46:42'
- author:
    name: Mark Typo
  body: 'I agree that was in poor taste and have remove the site. But certainly she
    should at least provide proper advice in the future. '
  created: '2007-08-01 07:28:43'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: Type design wouldn't be a good career move even if the piracy situation weren't
    as bad as it is. I can deal with designers who pirate for pre-publication use
    but who license the font for publication. I know pirates who make their clients
    buy a font each time they use it, which is good for the designers, since they
    are actually overpaying. People like [Edited by moderator] who allegedly steal
    as a way of life and encourage others to do so annoy me. But how annoyed can you
    get at someone who is such a bad artist? It's painful to have to consider persons
    so poorly favoured. Leave the poor creature alone!
  created: '2007-08-01 07:32:12'
- author:
    name: Mark Typo
  body: "billtroop, \r\nplease remove her name from your post I agree that is was
    wrong of me to post the site. so I would appreciate it if you would not use her
    name. Though I do have my problems with this person a did graduate with a good
    portfolio. Posting her information was a mistake, one which I had not thought
    through. "
  created: '2007-08-01 08:07:42'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "If push comes to shove, just report her to your school's technology services.
    Those guys, in my experience, are just itching to bust people for piracy in any
    form on any school owned computers.\r\n\r\nIn fact, they tend to go way overboard,
    and force people to use only the fonts originally supplied by the system admin,
    which in a way could be a good thing. \r\n\r\nHaving a teacher emphasize the use
    of many typefaces indicates to me that she is covering up a general typographic
    weakness. A good designer/typographer should be able to \"make do\" with only
    a handful of fonts. "
  created: '2007-08-01 08:39:58'
- author:
    name: T Bones
    picture: 111040
  body: "[Edit]\r\nI'm with Russ on this. Your embittered gripe and allegations should
    be addressed to your tutor and the educational establishment concerned first,
    not publicly vilify her on an web forum. You gave us her website and have in that
    way named her (which I think is really spiteful). At least let her know what you've
    done, so that she might have the opportunity to respond to your claims. "
  created: '2007-08-01 09:45:57'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "MarkTypo--\r\n\r\nDan Gayle has an excellent suggestion for you and I would
    like to add one more thing. I neither know the people involved nor the school
    attended. My suggestion therefore is for you to write to the administration and
    let them know the information you've been taught, and what you should have been
    taught when it comes to legal matters. That way, they have the opportunity to
    address this situation with their entire faculty, and not misguide the students
    there.\r\n\r\nBTW - if you do, keep it upbeat. Thank them for the wonderful education,
    the fine teachers, etc. but let them know that the teachers are given poor advice
    to students and you would like them to address the matter. You are not asking
    for them to fire anyone, just educate them so they can educate the next generation
    of designers. \r\n\r\nGood luck out in the real world..."
  created: '2007-08-01 11:26:14'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">A good designer/typographer should be able to \u201Cmake do\u201D with only
    a handful of fonts.\r\n\r\nTruer words were never spoken -- though why place make
    do in scare quotes? \r\n\r\nI think Mark's original impulse was good. If you want
    to steal/not steal/delude yourself into thinking you're the reincarnation of Robin
    Hood, that's a personal decision, a very personal decision. When it becomes institutionalized,
    taught, it's in a different category and I see no reason why this person shouldn't
    be named and shamed by everyone who henceforth ever googles her. She, and nobody
    else, has chosen to make her behaviour public by teaching it. You don't get more
    public than that. I don't think she has any presumption of privacy on this issue.
    How sleazy it all is! "
  created: '2007-08-01 13:24:28'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "As an educator, this just ticks me off (the teacher, not the student). My
    suggestion would be for Mark to publish online all the course outlines, lecture
    notes, tutorials, and any other work that the teacher had put together over the
    course, and then tell her that since she is in favor of sharing other peoples
    work without compensation, you felt it was fair to share her work.\r\n\r\nMany
    teachers I know feel no pang of guilt at using the work of others, but are adament
    that they will not share their work without compensation. I am constantly trying
    to convince teachers that the Internet is not a buffet placed for them to pick
    and choose illustrations for their lectures without asking permission.\r\n\r\n(And
    of course, after the point has been made to the teacher, Mark should then remove
    the materials, since two wrongs have never equalled a right ... although three
    lefts do.)"
  created: '2007-08-01 13:49:18'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Come on Bill, don\u2019t turn typophile into a pillory. As far as I can tell,
    all we got is an unconfirmed accusal by an anonymous who just created an account
    to tell us this story.\r\n(That doesn\u2019t mean it has to be wrong, but, well
    you know \u2026 witch-hunt, anyone?)\r\nI think this issue can be debated without
    the name."
  created: '2007-08-01 14:11:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>A good designer/typographer should be able to \u201Cmake do\u201D with
    only a handful of fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, you can always cook with the ingredients
    at hand if needs be, but shopping around makes the meal more interesting."
  created: '2007-08-01 14:43:34'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "These days, copyright infringement is punishable by firing squad, I believe.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-01 15:04:12'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: ">>I think this issue can be debated without the name.\r\n\r\nIt's an issue
    I've always had with ratemyprofessors.com. Oftentimes people use the anonymity
    as a license to attack a professor's reputation, and none of is necessarily qualified.
    It's interesting that what gets shot down on Typophile, even in the context of
    what is perhaps Unforgivable Type Crime #1, flies like crazy elsewhere on the
    internet. "
  created: '2007-08-01 15:05:07'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "<em>These days, copyright infringement is punishable by firing squad, I believe.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    heard a rumor about this - but I just thought it was 'cause I'm now in the South...\r\n\r\nSo
    \"it's true... it's true!\"  (\u2014Madeleine Kahn)"
  created: '2007-08-01 15:07:59'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Mark Typo,\r\n\r\nAll of the name her/don't name her stuff aside, the fact
    that her students marked her as a hack and a thief is a good indication that she's
    reaping the rewards of her attitude already. There is very little penalty enacted
    for this behavior. Penalties do exist, but I have never been ticketed for jaywalking,
    in spite of the penalties for that, and it's much the same with typeface piracy.
    It's too hard for the people who have a stake in type to go hunting down the 'pedigree'
    of every design piece out there, if not impossible. I've only ever heard of large
    companies being taken to task for being stupid (UPS with the Dax rip-off).\r\n\r\nI'm
    sure that Linotype or whoever could start auditing people, but that's also a bit
    of PR nightmare, because there are few designers/firms without a few licensing
    skeletons in their closets, either by mistake or by design. Additionally, it can
    be due to the attitudes of higher-ups that lead to this sort of behavior: who's
    going to risk their neck at work by threatening their boss with exposure to legal
    action? That would be suicide, frankly. And then there's the flip side: the designers
    bring in their fonts and slip them into projects without proper licensing. When
    it's 2 AM and the deadline's tomorrow, who will scrutinize that stuff?\r\n\r\nThat
    being said, it's not impossible. Sometimes simply taking responsibility for the
    often tiring and pedantic job of managing font licenses is enough to encourage
    compliance. I've seen instances where it is simply left undone becaues it can
    be a bit onerous. I've found success in taking this stance, as well as simply
    making it known that I don't tolerate it.\r\n\r\nJust an FYI, <a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/1710/licenseagreement.html?PHPSESSID=3ecba013275ca7f2f8cc4e0b24caeb8e\">here's
    Linotype's offical word on penalties</a> from their License Agreement:\r\n\r\n-------\r\nArticle
    4\r\nTermination of License Agreement\r\n\r\n4.1 The license and usage right guaranteed
    under subsection 1.2 shall become immediately null and void in the event of a
    breach of this contract.\r\n\r\n4.2 If the licensee or one of the licensee's employees
    breaches the agreed-upon license and right of use and/or property rights of Linotype
    GmbH, Linotype GmbH has the right to terminate the license and right of use, with
    termination taking immediate effect. Linotype GmbH reserves the explicit right
    to assert any further claims (specifically information, compensation for damages,
    etc.).\r\n\r\n4.3 In the event of termination, the licensee is obligated to delete
    and return to Linotype GmbH the original Font Software affected by and pertaining
    to the termination, including documentation and all copies.\r\nAt the request
    of Linotype GmbH, the licensee is obligated to provide written assurance that
    said deletion has occurred.\r\n------\r\n\r\nI'm not sure how standard this is,
    but I'd bet most EULAs specify the right to pursue damages in court."
  created: '2007-08-01 17:31:39'
- author:
    name: Mark Typo
  body: "I too have a problem with site such as ratemyprofessor for you can't tell
    if a poster is being truthful or not, and realizing that I was doing something
    much like that I decided to remove her site. I am certainly telling the truth,
    but I have know way of proving it and perhaps she herself was exaggerating when
    she made the comments, though having gotten to know her a bit, I don't think she
    was. As for a witch-hunt, I am very bitter. I work very hard for three years to
    become certified and the culmination of all my hard work was this class, where
    she was able to go though all of my past projects and put her grubby little prints
    all over them. She still gave me a good grade, though, and I will be able to fix
    the things she has changed. I was going to chalk it up to experience when I read
    another person on another board complaining about his type work being used without
    compensation. This reminded me of her advice and how mad it made me, for she wasn't
    simply stating what her practices are but encouraging the students to do the same.
    I don't care if she destroys her career but her advice could destroy the career's
    of her students.\r\n\r\nAm I Bitter, Yes.\r\nDo I really want to be the one to
    crucify her, not really.\r\nWould I shed a tear if she lost her professorship,
    not at all."
  created: '2007-08-01 17:37:56'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I think you have a right to complain but outing her here isn't the proper
    way - I'd talk to her superior at the school. Before doing so you should know
    your school's policy on fonts for students - do they have group licenses, etc.
    or do you each buy your own?
  created: '2007-08-01 18:07:20'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> Penalties do exist, but I have never been ticketed for jaywalking, in spite
    of the penalties for that, and it\u2019s much the same with typeface piracy.\r\n\r\nExcept
    that for jaywalking, you are not depriving someone of their livelihood."
  created: '2007-08-01 19:32:21'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "You should notify both her academic superior AND the school's information
    technology department. Be clear that it's not only that she pirates the fonts
    herself, but she *also* encourages her students to do so.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-08-01 19:34:39'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "<em> Penalties do exist, but I have never been ticketed for jaywalking, in
    spite of the penalties for that, and it\u2019s much the same with typeface piracy.\r\n\r\nExcept
    that for jaywalking, you are not depriving someone of their livelihood</em>\r\n\r\nAnd
    though my mother has been dead for 25 years, I can still remember the day she
    came home with a ticket for jaywalking. To add insult to injury - she was only
    one foot away from the crosswalk. \r\n\r\nPeople do get tickets - but a policeman
    has to be around to give it.\r\n\r\nOne problem manufacturers do have is the policing...it
    can get very expensive going after one person for one font - much better to go
    for a healthy company with lots of bucks..."
  created: '2007-08-01 19:54:03'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Except that for jaywalking, you are not depriving someone of their livelihood.\"\r\n\r\nOf
    course, you're not usually depriving anyone of their livelihood when you infringe
    upon a copyright, either.\r\n\r\nAt worse, you're depriving someone of a 'potential
    and theoretical unit sale' but that's typically just a small fraction of the total
    amount of infringement instances.\r\n\r\nI'm certainly not advocating copyright
    infringement...especially in the manner this professor is, but let's not go spreading
    FUD about it either."
  created: '2007-08-01 19:56:58'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 'It''s the equivalent of your teacher walking into class and saying - hey,
    I shoplifted my entire outfit from Filene''s Basement. You kids should know that
    their security isn''t that good. Believe me if a prof was walking around saying
    that it would have made its way up the food chain by now. Part of a teacher''s
    job is to set an example. '
  created: '2007-08-01 20:15:05'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "<em>Part of a teacher\u2019s job is to set an example.</em>\r\n\r\nSo true
    Patty.\r\n\r\nIt is unfortunate that we are now living in an age of \"without
    responsibility\" to bartenders getting fined for getting you drunk, and the victim
    having to pay the robber till their death...\r\n\r\nReally, what has happened
    to society?"
  created: '2007-08-01 20:16:14'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: When the president is a war criminal, the attorney general lies under oath,
    POWs are being tortured, and anaesthetized Americans care more about what dog
    Paris Hilton just got, what do you expect?
  created: '2007-08-01 20:30:03'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Paris Hilton just got a new dog!?
  created: '2007-08-01 21:54:33'
- author:
    name: cooper design
    picture: 111844
  body: "If you are interested in protecting and advancing your career, at the <i>very
    very very</i> least you don't make admissions against self-interest. Once you
    admit to knowingly breaking a rule or law, you are unprotected against the opportunists
    and enemies you may have in your classroom, workplace, family, etc.  Maintaining
    the image of propriety is as basic as brushing your teeth.\r\n\r\nWhatever other
    errors in judgment this teacher may make in her life, she is certain to one day
    be fully hoisted on her own petard if she still has no mastery over this most
    basic rule. This student, however, has demonstrated an impatient willingness to
    exploit her admission, a noble inclination to hold other people accountable to
    the law, an indignant and surprised righteousness, a false modesty, and a knowledge
    that social orders can be realigned. He is sure to enjoy a nice career irrespective
    of his merits or abilities. I give him an A+.  In fact, when I read the original
    post again\u2014the badmouthing her talents, the supposed solidarity of opinion
    among the students, the handwringing over how her advise is putting others in
    danger, the professions of purity (I would never do this!)\u2014it makes me pretty
    nauseated.  A++"
  created: '2007-08-01 23:52:23'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"in all the years of her own career she has payed for only two or three
    fonts herself\"\r\n\r\nThere is not enough information here to determine whether
    that is a good thing or a bad thing. \r\n\r\nBeside that, \"All the years of her
    own career...\" could be four, and her clients could have paid for all but 3 or
    4 fonts, leaving enough for her own corporate identity and personal use forever.
    So, I wouldn't call her boss.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2007-08-02 12:39:42'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "She's a university professor, she has to have more experience than that.\r\n\r\nPoint
    is, she's making the students feel like only suckers pay for fonts and that's
    not cool. She can do whatever she wants and probably won't get caught but she
    ought to keep her mouth shut."
  created: '2007-08-02 13:49:10'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "<em>Except that for jaywalking, you are not depriving someone of their livelihood</em>\r\n\r\nOh,
    absolutely. I was simply drawing an example based on what first came to mind.
    Of course, piracy is a crime that becomes truly problematic when its institutional
    or cultural, because it usually involves small bites by an individual (one album
    out of thousands sold, one font license out of hundreds) at which point combatting
    it becomes a nightmare.  If I steal a font (I don't, by the way), it's dollars
    not making it to a designer and their distributor; if everyone in my office does,
    it's paychecks. Digital distribution is a double-edged sword.\r\n\r\nAnd David
    makes a good point. The devil's in the details. (Not that I need to tell a bunch
    of typophiles that, I suppose.)"
  created: '2007-08-02 18:33:47'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "In this You Tube age, I think it is a bit disheartening that an individual
    can't make a verbal mistake without being assaulted. This doesn't mean that people
    don't make terrible mistakes, but it also doesn't mean that people should be ostracized
    for being human. We seem to expect people to be above human which is simply not
    fair.\r\n\r\nThis is not a put down of You Tube by the way. When issues like this
    come up I often think of Jeff Goldblum's line in Jurassic Park: <em>\"Just because
    you could, doesn't mean you should.\"</em>"
  created: '2007-08-02 19:09:03'
- author:
    name: Mark Typo
  body: 'The professor has a large number of pieces in her portfolio dating back to
    1997, most of which use a different font. You may consider her a kind of font
    glutton.  Her comment in class was not an explanation of how to get other people
    to pay for your fonts or make do with the ones you have, but more, the fonts are
    out there, take them and no one will ever know. '
  created: '2007-08-02 19:22:51'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "\"Come on Bill, don\u2019t turn typophile into a pillory. As far as I can
    tell, all we got is an unconfirmed accusal by an anonymous who just created an
    account to tell us this story.\r\n(That doesn\u2019t mean it has to be wrong,
    but, well you know \u2026 witch-hunt, anyone?)\r\nI think this issue can be debated
    without the name.\"\r\n\r\nI agree with this. But I dislike the idea of editable
    posts; I dislike censorship in this kind of discussion, even self-censorship.
    Certainly what's her name should have a chance to respond to this thread ... has
    anyone told her what's going on? \r\n\r\nI agree with Thomas that \"Be clear that
    it\u2019s not only that she pirates the fonts herself, but she *also* encourages
    her students to do so\" is a crucial distinguishing factor here.\r\n\r\nNobody
    would be debating this incredibly tiresome issue yet again if her name wasn't
    there, or hadn't been there. That provides the frisson which draws us. But it
    \ is surely dreadfully unfair to name and shame someone without letting them know
    or respond. That for me is the outstanding issue right now. As for my responsibility
    for deleting the name, all I can say is that of the thousands of dreadfully tactless
    posts I have made, I have never retracted a syllable even though I would be delighted
    to unsay a million things. But .... it just seems to pretend, so inauthentic,
    so unconvincing, so --- I just don't know how to handle it."
  created: '2007-08-02 20:01:51'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "A cautionary tale: I once posted on this forum a story about an unpleasant
    design experience I had a few years back. I used the name of the client because
    the name was germane to the story. Unfortunately, she googled her company name
    and found the link (even tho it was buried deep). The good news is that I had
    only nice things to say about her product; the bad news was I called her a \"nightmare
    client\" and \"her own worst enemy\" and \"dreadful taste\" and she read about
    it. OOPS! I'll be more careful next time... \r\n\r\nSo this stuff does get back
    to you. Bill, you should really remove the name from your post as requested, even
    if it goes against your \"anti-censorship\" stance. [I edited my post here to
    add the 'r' at the end of 'your' for grammatical reasons]\r\n\r\nAnd IMHO Mark
    your prof should be teaching painting, not design. Her abstracts are lovely."
  created: '2007-08-02 22:02:20'
- author:
    name: Mark Typo
  body: "Bill,\r\nI used poor judgment by posting her site and that is why I chose
    to censor myself. You on the other hand had to have made a conscious decision
    to uncensor me. For as soon as I made my edit, you posted her name in your remarks
    in a way that I believe not to be part of the natural flow of conversation, but
    forced. Much like a politician who talks about something egregious and inserts
    his targets identity. I do agree this would not have been discussed at such length
    if it were totally anonymous., but I would like you to remove your post anyway.
    To be perfectly honest and at risk of supporting Cooper's opinion of me, I do
    not want her evolved for I am not as of yet out of the clutches of the School
    and hence her own as well. I realize that I am serving my own interests and perhaps
    I deserve it for letting my emotion (spite) to get the better of me, but I'd rather
    not have to fight her on another front right now."
  created: '2007-08-02 22:31:35'
- author:
    name: Mark Typo
  body: "Agreed,\r\n Her paintings are nice but she should be a painter, not a teacher
    at all. Which I believe is the way she is heading anyway. By the way I edit my
    posts for spelling and grammar all the time, though not very well. The dang spell
    check can only do so much. "
  created: '2007-08-02 22:36:57'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Her paintings are gorgeous\u2014and it seems that Mr. Typo you have gotten
    your wish, courtesy of a moderator. "
  created: '2007-08-03 03:04:07'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "This is so pathetic. You take away her name and then all you can do is talk
    about her paintings -- to those of us who know her name. So now there's the in-crowd
    -- the moderators and the people who got here soon enough -- and there's the out-crowd
    -- who don't know whose 'gorgeous' paintings are being discussed. (I must say
    I think they are amongst the most tiresome pieces of provincial dreck I have ever
    seen, moreover that they are perfectly consistent with the personality profile
    of someone who would want to teach her students to be digital pickpockets.)\r\n\r\nMark,
    you write, \r\n\r\n>I used poor judgment by posting her site and that is why I
    chose to censor myself. You on the other hand had to have made a conscious decision
    to uncensor me. For as soon as I made my edit, you posted her name in your remarks
    in a way that I believe not to be part of the natural flow of conversation, but
    forced.<\r\n\r\nMark, you are establishing for youself the profile of a rather
    overhasty overreacter. \"As soon as I made my edit, you posted her name\" you
    claim.\r\n\r\nWhat if I didn't see your edit? What if I was responding from a
    refresh of a couple of hours before or even the day before? If this is your standard
    of trial and judgement, I think my sympathies may revert to old what's her name
    with that Persian cat. As chronic ringworm is endemic in American Persian cats,
    there's another reason to sympathize with Riva or Rita or whatever her ill-omened
    name was.\r\n\r\n\"Much like a politician who talks about something egregious
    and inserts his targets identity.\"\r\n\r\nMark, has anyone ever suggested you
    might be projecting? \r\n\r\n\"To be perfectly honest and at risk of supporting
    Cooper\u2019s opinion of me, I do not want her evolved for I am not as of yet
    out of the clutches of the School and hence her own as well.\"\r\n\r\nFrom what
    I've heard off list you've made so many enemies over this that you might just
    as well pack up and start going to law school or something. But change your name
    first.\r\n\r\n\"I realize that I am serving my own interests\"\r\n\r\nNot until
    you stop posting.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-03 09:31:50'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Bill writes:\r\n><em>From what I\u2019ve heard off list you\u2019ve made
    so many enemies over this that you \r\n>might just as well pack up and start going
    to law school or something. </em>\r\n\r\nHuh??? Can this readly happen to an anonymous
    poster writing (mostly) anonymously about a professor and her said school?"
  created: '2007-08-03 09:50:38'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Impossible to answer this as written: do you mean readily or really? What
    is 'mostly anonymously'? Is that like being 'mostly' pregnant? And do you mean
    'said' school as in the quaint old legal usage (which implies that the school
    has been explicitly named in a previous clause) or do you mean 'sad'? Or do you
    mean something else quite different, Dan? In a way, it's rather thrilling to see
    so much ambiguity in one simple sentence. Fond Greetings, Bill\r\n\r\nPS: Re the
    censorship thing, I don't like this Puritanical way of doing things. I prefer
    the Wikipedia model, where you can't actually erase anything -- it's all in the
    history where anyone with enough patience can find it. I really feel strongly
    about this. "
  created: '2007-08-03 13:11:43'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I really don't understand why editing your own post is considered censorship.\r\n\r\nAnd
    Bill if you don't like it, then goodbye and don't let the door hit you on the
    way out."
  created: '2007-08-03 14:07:01'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Well, the writer was anonymous, and he named the professor, but then cut that
    part out, anonymousing her in the process, which was for the best, in my opinion.
    But while it was still possible to know the professor's name, I guess that it
    would have been possible to link her to the school, which wasn't ever explicitly
    named in the discussion, as far as I know. Sorry for not being clearer, and for
    my obtuse run-on sentences. I have a tendency to do that. I just wanted to ask
    you to elaborate on your statement, the one I quoted in my post above. I find
    it difficult to believe that a thread without a lot of details or clear statements
    could make someone have a lot of new enemies :-(
  created: '2007-08-03 14:29:59'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "\"I really don\u2019t understand why editing your own post is considered
    censorship.\" \r\n\r\nIt's worse. It's lying. It's pretending you didn't say something,
    in public, that you did say in public. It is totally, 100 percent, dishonest.
    It is a kind of mendacity which I find utterly despicable.\r\n\r\n\"And Bill if
    you don\u2019t like it, then goodbye and don\u2019t let the door hit you on the
    way out.\"\r\n\r\nSame to you but with fraises des bois and whipped cream on the
    side.\r\n\r\n\"I find it difficult to believe that a thread without a lot of details
    or clear statements could make someone have a lot of new enemies :-(\"\r\n\r\nWell
    I've just made at least one new enemy, Patty, without even trying. But as for
    what you were talking about, Dan, don't you think there's a small possibility
    I might have been pulling someone's leg? Just a possibility, mind you.\r\n\r\nMark's
    bound to have at least one new enemy when R-word finds out what he's been posting
    about her. Plus, faculty will probably stand behind her, and administration, and
    if not, well, at least her cat will, so that's two enemies, one of them with pretty
    sharp claws. Oh God, the things one will do not to work on a typeface!"
  created: '2007-08-03 15:12:57'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Ooh, now the enemies list is starting to build. (Oh no, am I going to be
    on it for posting this?)\r\n\r\nBill, Patti is a well respected member of the
    group, for longer than I have been here. I don't think you are going to gain points
    with the rest of us by claiming she is your \"enemy\"."
  created: '2007-08-03 15:16:06'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I basically agree with Bill on one subject - once a post is responded to
    it should become uneditable. That is the only reasonable way to have coherent
    threads.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-08-03 16:03:59'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'And you won''t gain any points with me if your sense of humour doesn''t improve.
    So this is the new aristocracy in type? Those who have been on typophile for x
    years? Patti sailed over on the Mayflower, as it were? An august founding mother
    of type? Defending the gates against the notorious Barbarian, Bill? '
  created: '2007-08-03 16:08:34'
- author:
    name: Mark Typo
  body: It is impossible to tell what is really meant by any of the statements. As
    we read these post we assign an internal narrator that defines the tone of what
    we are reading. Bill maybe joking while writing his post but as we read we don't
    have his voice to give us the cues we need to decipher his emotion, so we insert
    a substitute. Bill says that I am a "overhasty overreacter", I believe myself
    to be an over analyzer, yes, but overreacter, I am probably the farthest from
    it. My previous comments to you Bill was my interpretation of the situation based
    on the fact that you have an apparent problem with censorship, and my Belief that
    the way you used the name of he professor in tour post not to be natural. I was
    not angry when writing the post nor did I mean to attack you. I read your comments
    as an attack on me however, though you your next post will probably be something
    to the sound of "I was just poking fun, toughen up kid, you need to have thick
    skin to work in this business." I really don't care either way. I am here for
    information, amusement and perhaps to make some friends. I don't believe I am
    making a lot of enemies, sure some group members will probably always see me in
    poor light for my original lack of judgment, but I have done all that I can to
    remedy that. As for profiles I think your profile, Bill, may be suffering more
    then my own due to this thread.
  created: '2007-08-03 17:08:13'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Taking Paul's point: that's absolutely true. There's no chance of coherence
    if anyone can edit at will. I look at it from a different perspective. I've been
    on type listserves and newsgroups since the early 90s, when they were just coming
    out. There was no way to edit once you had said something. You had to take responsibility
    for saying whatever you said. Is there something wrong with that?\r\n\r\nOne difference
    with a listserve is that it _can_ be private, theoretically -- if the list isn't
    made public. This is what happened, for example, to the ATypI list, a few years
    ago. Hrant Papazian said some things about John Downer that his publisher Zuzana
    Licko didn't like. She contacted Cynthia Hollandsworth and threatened to sue if
    the offensive posts were not removed. Instead, ATypI chose to take the list private.\r\n\r\nAt
    that time, both parties to the dispute decided _not_ to tell Hrant that it was
    his actions that led to the ATypI list being closed, on the sensible grounds that
    if he found out, he'd make a very great deal of noise about it. I'm being a little
    naughty, revealing it here for the first time .... so I might as well add the
    quaint detail that amused me the most, which was that Cynthia had no idea who
    Licko was or of the high esteem in which she then was held by some. She referred
    to her as 'some woman'.\r\n\r\nI know I'm going to regret posting this. It's bound
    to make me new and influential enemies .... yet somehow, in spite of my dreadful
    history of 15 years of dreadful public indiscretions in type, the people who really
    matter still talk to me, perhaps because they know I love their work, and sometimes
    come close to understanding it.\r\n\r\nWhen I was first on the Type Design List
    and to a very limited extent Typo-L, they were not available to non-subscribers
    on the net but I think they now are. Very embarrassing in some cases.\r\n\r\nThe
    lists have largely been taken over by blogs such as typophile and typographica.
    I don't think posts should be editable. You want to make a public pronouncement?
    Then take the responsibility for doing so.\r\n\r\nTaking it a level further, what
    about the case of the internet AA group where someone confessed to a murder? I
    know the girl who outed him to the police. Want to bet he wished he hadn't posted?
    Yet that is a case where there was a far greater presumption of privacy ...."
  created: '2007-08-03 17:41:21'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: I don't think my profile -- whatever that is -- can get any worse. Such considerations
    have never moved me.
  created: '2007-08-03 17:47:19'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: ">>I don\u2019t think posts should be editable. You want to make a public
    pronouncement? Then take the responsibility for doing so.\r\n\r\nWhat if you tell
    someone something privately and they decide to pronounce it publicly?  "
  created: '2007-08-03 18:40:16'
- author:
    name: Sam M
  body: "Digital liscensing is a mess. I sympathize with the creators, being one myself
    - however i think that fonts are ludicrisly expensive, as is most graphics software.
    \  The supply and demand market model doesn't work when the supply (of digital
    liscences) is infinite and the overhead is virtually nil.\r\n\r\nFurthermore,
    I'll never ever understand how anyone can say making an illicit copy of, say \"gill
    sans\" is stealing when Eric Gill died more than 60 years ago.  i don't think
    the repackaging of gill sans into a computer font is worth $156/liscence. Maybe
    $5.  In fact i'd say selling it for $156, and claiming you have the fair \"market-value\"
    right to do so is more of a theft than making an illegal copy! \r\n\r\nUntil copyrights
    have sensible limits - I'd say somewhere in the 5 to 15 year range, i'd definetly
    consider \"stealing\" a typeface by a dead designer. Fortunately, my work is such
    that i've never needed to use a typeface i didn't already own legitimately.  \r\n\r\nAs
    a creator, i'd gladly reliquish copyright after a sensible time.  in fact, even
    at this point i doubt i'd ever claim copyright to something i did 10 years ago
    as a matter of principle (unless maybe my work was used to advertise something
    i found repugnant.) \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-03 18:43:44'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Sam M:\r\n\r\n<cite>Furthermore, I\u2019ll never ever understand how anyone
    can say making an illicit copy of, say \u201Cgill sans\u201D is stealing when
    Eric Gill died more than 60 years ago. i don\u2019t think the repackaging of gill
    sans into a computer font is worth $156/liscence. Maybe $5.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf you
    think that clones of the old Gill Sans are expensive, than look here:\r\n\r\nAt
    3900 Euro (three-thousand nine-hundred) per one \"single-user license\", the price
    of the clone of the old Fleischmann typeface is eligible for the Book of World
    Records.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.dutchtypelibrary.nl/PDF/pricelists/singleuser/DTL%20Fleischmann_prlst.pdf\r\n\r\n(3,900
    Euro equal 5,331.81 US Dollar by today's currency exchange rate.).\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-03 19:44:19'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">\u201CEt semel emissum volat irrevocabile verbum\u201D (Horace)<\r\n\r\n\r\nNisi
    avicaptor Uli adsit!"
  created: '2007-08-03 19:52:17'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Furthermore, I\u2019ll never ever understand how anyone can say making an
    illicit copy of, say \u201Cgill sans\u201D is stealing when Eric Gill died more
    than 60 years ago. i don\u2019t think the repackaging of gill sans into a computer
    font is worth $156/liscence. Maybe $5. In fact i\u2019d say selling it for $156,
    and claiming you have the fair \u201Cmarket-value\u201D right to do so is more
    of a theft than making an illegal copy!<\r\n\r\nI could not disagree with this
    more. I first proposed reviving the Gill font Pilgrim to Linotype around 1995
    and started desultory work on it around then. Then I got involved in other things
    ... Finally, Lino released a pre-existing and (in my opinion) very poor Linotron
    version, and agreed to do my version as 'Pilgrim Next'. We had the first critique
    last year, and ... work proceeds very slowly. Obviously, I have not been putting
    that many hours into it over these past 12 years, but I have been thinking about
    it and its problems for all this time, learning more about type all the time,
    learning more about the font all the time, and hey, I would be very annoyed if
    lots of people used it without paying and nobody actually bought a license --
    if, when, I ever finish it. \r\n\r\nAnybody who seriously thinks about the problems
    of reviving a design for any format must surely acknowledge that each revival
    for some new format, if it is seriously-intentioned, takes an enormous amount
    of time, perhaps more than the original design itself, even.\r\n\r\nIf you looked
    at material set in metal Gill and wanted to reproduce it exactly with the digital
    versions available today, you wouldn't be able to. There's plenty more work that
    could be done on Gill Sans. Why would that work be worthless just because the
    original design came out eighty (not sixty) years ago? \r\n\r\nAnybody got a really
    great idea for the dagger in Pilgrim? The reason I've been posting today is that
    I'm trying to avoid working on this problem! God, is that a pathetic thing to
    admit in public or what? "
  created: '2007-08-03 20:04:42'
- author:
    name: kuroneko
    picture: 112403
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.lineto.com/\">Lineto</a> wrote a good text about copyright
    :\r\n\r\n<em>\"Rule Number One: Always license the fonts you are using, and do
    not share, trade or illegally download fonts. By pirating fonts or using pirated
    fonts you are not damaging some huge multinational company, but your fellow design
    colleagues who have put a lot of time, energy, and money into producing sophisticated
    software tools.\r\n\r\nUsing fonts illegally is not an irreverent statement about
    \xABOpen Source\xBB and does not make you a glamourous rebel of the internet age,
    but simply a digital pickpocket.\"</em>\r\n\r\nHowever if you have a typeface
    on your computer and you haven't paid for it most of foundries consider it as
    piracy. I don't agree with that, sure they are a lot of designers that will never
    pay for the fonts they are using but most of us will licence a font if they are
    using it for a commercial purpose. I think that you can \"illegally download\"
    a font to test it then if it's matching with your project you buy it! Or foundries
    have to do a test version of the font (I'm not taliking about the useless web
    typewritters) containing just the upper and lowercases as some rare foundries
    are proposing."
  created: '2007-08-03 22:38:20'
- author:
    name: Brian Allen
  body: Please pardon the interruption - Bill Troop, would you contact me by email?
    allen.br at gmail dot com Thanks. Brian Allen
  created: '2007-08-03 22:38:20'
- author:
    name: pumpkingod
    picture: 112567
  body: "Bill: you seem to be viewing the whole censorship issue from one side, in
    a \"it's your responsibility you posted it. take the responsibility and don't
    censor yourself.\" I agree with it in principle, but I think sitting on a high
    horse and chanting \"no censorship\" while someone is getting pilloried for your
    actions isn't much better than the so-called censorship itself. \r\n\r\nWhat if
    you'd unintentionally deeply embarrassed someone? or given away something that
    could threaten someone's life? or their career? You may argue that once one person's
    seen it, it's out, but that's like not quarantining an infectious illness just
    because \"someone else has probably already caught it.\" There is a real benefit
    to limiting something's spread, if it has the potential to harm. Damaging information
    tends to be one of those things, and that's why people wanted to limit its spread.
    Sure, I saw the name and you did, and so did dozens of others, certainly, but
    seeing how big this thread has now become, the newcomers will not. Those searching
    for \"typography teachers advice\" (eventually) on google will not, and so on.
    People who are really curious might find it on some cache, if it managed to be
    picked up quickly enough, but it will have succeeded in limiting the spread. Sure,
    if someone goes and writes about it on their own blog or opens a wiki page on
    it, there's no stopping them, but then that might be seen as libel, given the
    difficulty of verifying the original claims.\r\n\r\nSo yeah, I can see you're
    angry, and can understand it, especially if a mod censored you and you feel strongly
    about censorship, but going all hot-headed and pissing more people off while also
    releasing more potentially damaging information isn't hurting anyone. You said
    you'd probably regret posting it... why not just avoid doing so in the first place
    if you realized that when writing it, given your aversion to editing?\r\n\r\n\r\nDaniel"
  created: '2007-08-04 03:53:23'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Troop:\r\n\r\n> avicaptor\r\n\r\nIs that an attestable Latin word?\r\n\r\n>
    Anybody got a really great idea for the dagger in Pilgrim?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.org/letters/pi_asterisk_dagger.pdf\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-04 10:07:38'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Daniel, your points are rational and logical, <em>but</em> re limiting the
    spread of gossip, I don't think it can be done. What did Churchill say about a
    slander travelling the world in five seconds, or something vaguely like that?
    \ And what's the use of censoring her name when anyone who wants can get it by
    clicking on Uli's link? \r\n\r\nSo: what's the point of censoring something in
    a thread, and not censoring a link to the censored material in the same thread?
    Where do you stop? In my admittedly limited experience here and in photo science
    blogs, moderators who censor will stop short of censoring links known to be to
    the material they just censored. How daft is that? \r\n\r\nYet I do wonder one
    thing, the perpetually unanswered question in this thread: has R-word (name available
    by clicking on Uli's link) been informed of her tarring and feathering? Are we
    ever going to hear her side of the story, or a defense by some supporter of hers?
    How can we deepen the original discussion until we hear from her? \r\n\r\n>You
    said you\u2019d probably regret posting it... why not just avoid doing so in the
    first place if you realized that when writing it, given your aversion to editing?<\r\n\r\nBecause
    I think that would be a boring way to exist. As Lynn Fontanne said when MGM asked
    the Lunts to make a second film, 'Mr Mayer, we can be bought, but we cannot be
    bored' -- \r\n\r\nThere's a kind of thrill in it. As a French friend wrote to
    me, in a phrase almost worthy of Balzac, \"I always knew you liked gossip and
    limelight, but I really had no idea you were this suicidal.\"\r\n\r\nBesides,
    in the history of litigation it is one of the craziest incidents: you have two
    organizations, Emigre and ATypI, at one another's throats, over the behaviour
    of a perpetrator who, both agree, cannot be let know that the conflict exists.
    In effect, Hrant was sued, and a settlement was made, without him ever knowing
    about it. How delightful!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-04 10:15:00'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "re >but then that might be seen as libel<\r\n\r\nI may not be understanding
    what you are saying -- surely a slander is a slander, no matter where it is uttered,
    so long as there is one person to hear it, and a libel is a libel, wherever published,
    publicly or privately? I am reasonably sure this is correct.\r\n\r\nThe surest
    defense to slander or libel is truth. If a statement is true, it cannot constitute
    slander or libel. \"Mark\" would only be slandering \"R-Word\" if he completely
    made the story up. Does anyone really think that probable? But it is possible,
    certainly if remotely. At the very least, I'd like to hear from the other side."
  created: '2007-08-04 10:19:37'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Dagger \u2013 a dummy or chisel might be a nice tip of the hat to the stonecutting
    precedents?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dummy_5394.jpg]\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-08-04 10:40:02'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: Tim, that is really nice!
  created: '2007-08-04 12:03:53'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "<em>I basically agree with Bill on one subject - once a post is responded
    to it should become uneditable. That is the only reasonable way to have coherent
    threads.</em>\r\n\r\nDear Paul Cutler (and all else who are reading this thread)\r\n\r\n\"Basically\"
    most humans do get a second chance in almost every phase of their life - with
    the exception of death (and even there it has been noted a few have come back
    to gte it right.)\r\n\r\nIf you view the original post as from a child -- and
    this board has been able to explain to him about his behaviour, then it has been
    a learning and growing experience. And a positive one, that hopefully, he will
    carry with him throughout his life. \r\n\r\nAnd you are never too old (or young)
    to learn something new...\r\n\r\n********\r\n\r\nMeanwhile, as to editing your
    threads - we had one IDIOT here - who used the threads for bogus contests. Stealing
    design ideas with the pretense of a grand prize. I for one an ecstatic that his
    posting were erased (by him) and that we all had the pleasure of 1) letting him
    know he was a fraud and 2) never having to see his face here again.\r\n\r\n*********\r\n\r\nI
    have NEVER been one for censorship. What I am for is responsibility. Sometimes
    people confuse the two."
  created: '2007-08-04 12:21:48'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">\u201CBasically\u201D most humans do get a second chance in almost every
    phase of their life - with the exception of death (and even there it has been
    noted a few have come back to gte it right.)<\r\n\r\nI'd like to think you were
    right, but ...\r\n\r\nThink of a radio or television broadcaster. Once the remark
    has been made, it's been made. It can't be taken back. This is true from Groucho
    Marx's famous faux pas in the 1950s to Don Imus this year. When I write to a blog,
    how is that different from broadcasting? \r\n\r\nIn addition, what about the point
    that Uli and others have made? no matter how many times the remark is edited,
    someone has the original, and will make it available. So where's the second chance?
    Mark's marked! "
  created: '2007-08-04 14:02:07'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I swore I'd ignore this thread from now on, but I have to interject.\r\n\r\nFor
    those of us who frequent the Type ID forum, it's a time honored tradition to leap
    in there with your ID as fast as you can, then go back in and add the link, as
    a courtesy to the original poster. I would hardly call this censorship. Before
    the upgrade the time stamp held even if you edited your post to add the link.
    It was an honor system, if your ID was wrong you didn't go back in and change
    it after someone had correctly ID'd the sample later on. Now, with the edited
    posts jumping down it requires us to add a new post with the link. Whatever. I
    preferred the old system. I sometimes used to go back into my post to clarify
    something I thought was fuzzy, or to reword something. Now I don't because it
    screws up the order of the thread - unless my post is still the last one.\r\n\r\nNow
    I am ignoring this thread and the pedantry contained herein.\r\n\r\n(and for the
    record my family came thru Ellis Island, not the Mayflower)"
  created: '2007-08-04 15:50:21'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: Pedantic? <em>This</em>? But just for the record, when you write 'pedantry
    contained herein' you mean the pedantry contained within your own message -- not
    that there is any. If you want to refer to the alleged pedantry of the thread
    as a whole, you mean 'therein'. Then there's the matter of 'thru' -- why would
    anyone want to write that? I know graphic designers, admittedly they're usually
    over sixty -- who think that taking language seriously is an important part of
    their job.
  created: '2007-08-04 17:36:16'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "I mispoke, apols to Patty (!!!!), I just saw this from Uli, so I guess it
    really is getting pedantic in here:\r\n\r\n>> avicaptor\r\n\r\nIs that an attestable
    Latin word?<\r\n\r\nI don't know, Uli, to the best of my knowledge it was invented
    last night -- in your honour as a matter of fact --, but it could perfectly well
    pre-exist. It's meaning is clear, though: bird-catcher. You might also like aviraptor,
    a seizer of birds. One could imagine the great Hagen/Hogni as an aviraptor, no?
    'Rache rieten sie mir!' 'Ahhhhhhhh!!!!' "
  created: '2007-08-04 18:09:11'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I used to mod and administrate a board Jackie T. I censored and/or edited
    many posts but I was a moderator. I don't think that posts should be editable
    by the person who posted it once they are replied to - I'm sticking to that.\r\n\r\nIf
    the moderators decide to edit a post - them I'm all for that too. The moderators
    set the tone of a board. If a moderator decided to edit Bill's post they have
    my full support.\r\n\r\nAnd while I'm at it - thanks to all the moderators here
    - I know how hard it is to make all those decisions.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-08-04 18:39:56'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> I preferred the old system. \r\n\r\nI do too, if for no other reason than
    I hate for a mispelling to taunt me. Or odd grammer caused by an unintended word
    accidently left in when I changed the direction of a sentence. \r\n\r\nI have
    a little bit of OCD. Every once in a while my wife says, \"OK, Monk.\", and laughs.
    Then I laugh too and we all had a good time.\r\n\r\nAnother factor is sometimes
    when I am threatening to take the lead in the number of posts list, I'd rather
    tack something on. I feel <strong>the leader position belongs to hrant.</strong>
    (In his absence, I am comfortable with the knowledgeable Mr. Coles keeping the
    seat warm)"
  created: '2007-08-04 18:55:46'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<cite> avicaptor\r\nIs that an attestable Latin word?<\r\nI don\u2019t know,
    Uli, to the best of my knowledge it was invented last night</cite>\r\n\r\n\"avicaptor\"
    is a perfect Latin neologism. Horace would have used it :-)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-04 19:53:49'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">If a moderator decided to edit Bill\u2019s post they have my full support.\r\n\r\nFine
    with me too in this case. I kind of wanted the post edited, but I didn't want
    to have the responsibility for editing it. It was nice to have the moderator take
    it out of my hands. BUT what does it achieve? Is it a moral action, a legal action,
    both, neither? How can it protect the board from potential legal action? And in
    other cases, I have resented moderators' actions.\r\n\r\nWhat I have resented
    even more is the censoring of entire threads such as typographica's censoring
    of the 'zweet dreams, Zuzana' thread, a few years ago. It was one of the most
    entertaining threads on any blog, ever -- or it seemed that way at the time. According
    to typographica, the thread exists but 'technical problems' -- lasting several
    years -- prevent it from being accessible. -- I don't suppose anyone here saved
    it? \r\n\r\nOn the other hand, I wish photonet would delete the notorious thread
    in which Ron Mowrey and I met and battled in the most embarrassing manner imaginable.
    We became best friends after that, thanks to the diplomatic mediation of Ryuji
    Suzuki, but it was a bumpy start and its visibility serves no useful purpose."
  created: '2007-08-04 19:58:16'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">\u201Cavicaptor\u201D is a perfect Latin neologism. Horace would have used
    it :-)\r\n\r\nThanks Uli!!!\r\n\r\nI am studying with great interest the extraordinary
    asterisk dagger pdf. Is there a key to the identifying numbers? Deeply, deeply
    fascinating -- though very slow to display in Mac Preview -- I'll have to try
    Win Acrobat, but I expect it's in the nature of the document."
  created: '2007-08-04 22:05:54'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Have you asked a moderator or adminitrator at photonet to help you? I was
    asked many times and usually had no problem complying with the persons wishes.\r\n\r\nTo
    me it's pretty simple - this is not my board and if I post something that the
    people that run it deem offensive or inappropriate - they have every right in
    the world to censor/edit/delete my post. If they think I am a really bad member
    then they have the right to ban me.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-08-04 22:07:25'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "<em>I used to mod and administrate a board Jackie T. I censored and/or edited
    many posts but I was a moderator. I don\u2019t think that posts should be editable
    by the person who posted it once they are replied to - I\u2019m sticking to that.</em>\r\n\r\nPaul
    - I like this sideway conversation we have going.\r\nJust to let you know -- I
    too, am a moderator on several boards, one of them being myfonts.com -- there
    the person who writes the thread has 15 minutes after they send it to alter it
    in anyway they want. Just 15 minutes! And I can tell you - many do after it comes
    up and they see what they wrote. I also remember a day I quickly edited some foul
    language out of one  -- and the person had come back to do the same and was in
    shock it was already taken care of. Such is the fun...\r\n\r\nYou are right the
    moderators set the tone, but around here, I figure it's Hrant. Where is Hrant
    lately anyway? In a quirky way, I miss his sarcastic humor and his numerous threads,
    an opinion for everything. Uh-oh, am I suppose to edit that line out? Nah, what
    is typophile.com without Hrant..."
  created: '2007-08-04 22:58:29'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>Where is Hrant lately anyway? </cite>\r\n\r\nI think he said he was
    going to Cypress or something like that."
  created: '2007-08-04 23:07:58'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "If people here are clamoring for the operators to fiddle with the editing
    system some more, then I must ask them not to. When a concept is important to
    a thread, no self-edit can delete the ripples in other posts, so there is nothing
    of essential value lost. Typos, run on sentences and a million other annoying
    trademarks of internet message boards are often (on Typophile) preened, cleaned
    and culled by the posters, leaving a more readable mass-memoir. Additionally,
    it is a useful tool when a project name changes, or a new sub-version is posted
    to the build boards (eg: Agamemnon #x).\r\n\r\nI felt the temptation to go see
    the \"teacher\"'s site. The reason I didn't was out of respect to the original
    poster, who seems to genuinely regret including that detail. Editing himself and
    explaining it shows effort to fix a mistake that should be accepted.\r\n\r\nTo
    those who don't want anyone else to edit their own posts; the moderators and funders
    of Typophile have done a great job of creating a diverse center by communicating
    instead of dictating, so go and not-edit your own posts."
  created: '2007-08-05 00:32:17'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">I felt the temptation to go see the \u201Cteacher\u201D\u2019s site. The
    reason I didn\u2019t was out of respect to the original poster, who seems to genuinely
    regret including that detail.<\r\n\r\nOh, please go! It will make you wince! Promise!
    And it will surely make you wonder why anyone would waste so much bandwidth on
    someone so mediocre, so doctrinaire. If there's one thing I hope Mark takes away
    from this, it's simply not to bother with such inglorious people.\r\n\r\n>the
    moderators and funders of Typophile have done a great job of creating a diverse
    center by communicating instead of dictating,<\r\n\r\nI do think they have dictated
    on occasion, at least I have been dictated to, but I agree they do a tremendously
    difficult job wonderfully well."
  created: '2007-08-05 14:31:34'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Hi Bill. On the Typographica post you mentioned: I know that for the sake
    of dramatics you'd love to believe it was censored, but our blog software truly
    was outdated and malfunctioning. The commentary has been live since we upgraded
    several weeks ago. So please dig a bit before posting assumptions. \r\n\r\nIn
    any case, I don't think the thread was <em>that</em> interesting to more than
    a handful of people. You can find soap opera and melodrama on TV. I'm interested
    in typography."
  created: '2007-08-13 03:18:28'
date: '2007-08-01 05:19:34'
title: A teacher with dangerous advice!

---
