---
author:
  name: Typography.Guru
  picture: 110253
body: "All the [[ClearType]] fonts are significantly smaller than the old [[Windows
  Core Fonts]]. I guess there is a technical reason for that. Does anyone know why
  that is?\r\n\r\nThe problem is: this makes it almost impossible to use the CT fonts
  for body copy texts on websites. If you declare the fonts in a CSS like:\r\n\"calibri,
  Verdana, Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif\"\r\nyou will have to choose the right type
  size for either the ones who have the CT fonts or the ones who doesn't. If you focus
  on the old Core Fonts, the CT fonts will be rendered much too small and if you focus
  on the CT fonts, users without it will see much too large type. So as a web designer
  you are really in a pickle here \u2026\r\n\r\nThere were plans for a CSS attribute
  that would scale the fonts according to the x-height (font-size-adjust), but it
  has been dropped in the current CSS specifications. \r\n\r\nAny ideas or solutions
  on this subject?\r\n\r\nRalf\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: kuroneko
    picture: 112403
  body: "When you open a CT font with Fontlab you can see that all the letters are
    two times bigger than as usual, maybe it's linked\u2026"
  created: '2007-08-04 21:45:33'
- author:
    name: David Sudweeks
    picture: 112594
  body: "Somebody tell me there's a better way to do this. You check what browser
    and version they are using, and by that\u2014you guess whether or not that means
    the CT fonts are being used\u2014and serve up the appropriate CSS. (I believe
    some browsers have implemented full x-height specification support) Yours is a
    great question Ralf; my guess is that the answer is most likely to first come
    from a different community than this since its effects reach far beyond that of
    type design and use."
  created: '2007-08-04 22:20:18'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Well, one could:\r\n* Use Flash to retrieve the users font list\r\n* Pass
    the list to Javascript to check if the ClearType font is installed\r\n* use DOM
    scripting to change the CSS class definition. (or better: store the result in
    a cookie to use the CT class defition for every following page)\r\n\r\nI made
    an example page:\r\nhttp://www.fonts.info/cleartype/\r\nIt checks for Calibri
    and replaces the paragraph's CSS class from \"nocleartype\" to \"cleartype\".\r\n(Doesn't
    work in IE yet. The javascript call from Flash seems to be ignored. Don't know
    why.)\r\n\r\n\r\nBut all this trouble for one font replacement!? So I wonder if
    there was a good reason to make the Cleartype fonts so small.\r\nAre we not supposed
    to use them for websites?\r\n\r\nRalf\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-05 14:19:53'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I\u2019ll just be pedagogic and say that consistent font sizing should not
    be a consideration in XHTML/CSS sites. Disabled users (or guys like me who can\u2019t
    handle screen type under 12 points) need to be able to scale fonts sizes to something
    that they find readable; given this, a good layout should be flexible enough to
    accommodate both Calibri and Verdana."
  created: '2007-08-06 06:35:02'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: I totally agree about the flexibility. But most users will always use the
    website's default settings, so these values have to be reasonable in the first
    place (And that's the problem with CT fonts). Whether the layout can deal with
    font-size changes is a different topic.
  created: '2007-08-06 08:16:01'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I see what you mean now, and you\u2019re right, it\u2019s a problem. I\u2019d
    say web designers will just have to use workaround or avoid the Cleartype fonts
    until Vista is widespread and Apple has licensed the fonts."
  created: '2007-08-06 19:54:38'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> All the ClearType fonts are significantly smaller\r\n\r\nNot all ClearType
    fonts are significantly smaller. For instance, Constantia has correct metrics,
    but the other fonts have incorrect metrics, i.e. the other ClearType fonts are
    technically faulty.\r\n\r\nThe top height of capital letters of Latin typefaces
    should be 70% (+/- 5%) of the font grid. PostScript fonts have 1000 units per
    em, and hence the top serif of the uppercase \"I\" should be 700 units in the
    case of PS and OTF fonts.\r\n\r\nFor TrueType and also for the ClearType fonts,
    the grid is 2048 units, and 70% of 2048 is slightly above 1400 units (i.e. 1433
    units, to be exact).\r\n\r\nIn the case of Constantia, the height of the capital
    \"I\" is exactly 1400 units, and this is perfectly correct. A deviation of +/-
    50 units (i.e. the range below 1400 down to 1350 and above 1400 up to 1450) is
    tolerable for TrueType fonts, but if the caps height drops below 1350, the metrics
    must be regarded as incorrect, because such fonts can no longer be mixed with
    other fonts in the same line of text, since the letters begin to dance (see below).\r\n\r\nThe
    metrically worst ClearType fonts are Calibri, Candara and Consolas, all three
    of them with a caps height of only 1300 units. Cambria is tolerable with a caps
    height is 1365 units.\r\n\r\nIf we mix Constantia (which has correct metrics)
    with Calibri (with has faulty metrics) in the same line of text, the faulty metrical
    design becomes apparent by \"dancing letters\", whose top capital heights do no
    longer align:\r\n\r\nsee http://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/calibri.pdf\r\n\r\nIt
    is hard to believe at first glance that all dancing letters in the file calibri.pdf
    are typeset in exactly the same point size (here 48p), but this is the case, as
    anyone can find out himself or herself by typesetting a line of sample text using
    and mixing Constantia and Calibri.\r\n\r\nKudos to Mr. Hudson, who was able to
    design his Constantia font with correct metrics (and non-kudos to Mr. de Groot,
    who was not capable of designing Calibri with correct metrics).\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-07 16:14:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The top height of capital letters of Latin typefaces should be 70% (+/-
    5%) of the font grid.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is not a technical requirement.\r\nThe
    idea that cap heights should be fairly consistent between faces is spurious, as
    there are many factors that may come into play when one mixes typefaces on the
    same line, and often relative x-height is more important. \r\n\r\nHowever, without
    trying out combinations of Cleartype fonts in a page layout, I wouldn't want to
    stick my neck out further.\r\n\r\nAre the Cleartype fonts intended to be used
    with one another? How far was this a criterion of the development process?\r\nIt
    doesn't seem to be much of a factor, given the format of \"Now Read This\" which,
    like the vast majority of type specimens, shows new faces in isolation.\r\n\r\nHow
    do the bolds of Calibri and Corbel (as sideheads, for instance) work as contrast
    faces with Constantia and Cambria (for the rest of a text blocks)? Show that in
    a page layout, and you would have a more meaningful comparison than a row of letters.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-07 18:01:55'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Oh, Nick, that would be boring. Then Uli can't categorically condemn a designer's
    abilities. \r\n\r\nUli, from what rule book did you get your pronouncement about
    the cap height of typefaces? There's not much call for lines of all caps, in mixed
    fonts of any kind; there is common use of different styles of the same design
    in the same line. X-height is indeed a more useful alignment. Have you taken up
    grunge typography? Sounds like another pointless opportunity to whine. And you
    didn't address the actual question, which pertains to web use. Since the CT fonts
    were made much later than Georgia/Verdana, and some of them have much larger,
    more diverse character sets (see Cambria math), perhaps there is something you
    are missing. For starters, I suggest you look beyond the designer's \"capabilities\"
    to the client's specifications. None of the CT designers acted in a vacuum."
  created: '2007-08-07 18:33:52'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Uli, from what rule book did you get your pronouncement about the cap
    height of typefaces?</cite>\r\n\r\nThe Elements of Martian Typographic Style."
  created: '2007-08-07 19:19:06'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<cite> Uli, from what rule book did you get your pronouncement about the
    cap height of typefaces?\r\n\r\nThe Elements of Martian Typographic Style.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    title of the book is somewhat different. The book is entitled \"Type 1 Font Format\"
    published by a company called Adobe. Did you ever hear of this outfit? They claim
    to have to do something with fonts. On page 24 of this book, they claim that the
    typical value of the caps height is 700, which is 70% of 1000 units.\r\n\r\nAnd
    there is another person claiming to have knowledge of fonts. He is called Peter
    Karow. Did you ever hear of him? He published the voluminous 347-page book \"Schriftstatistik\"
    containing thousands of statistical metrical analyses about thousands of fonts
    (and he incidentally also confirmed the above 70% thumb rule).\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-07 20:42:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>they claim that the typical value of the caps height is 700</em>\r\n\r\nThey
    also state that x-height is typically 450.\r\nYet there are genres of type that
    differ greatly from this proportion.\r\nMight not the same be true for capitals
    as for x-height?\r\n\r\nYou are claiming that what is atypical is incorrect, and
    stating that designers who decide to use atypical proportions are \"incapable
    of designing with correct metrics\"."
  created: '2007-08-07 21:45:14'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "A typical American male is five feet eight inches tall.\r\n\r\nNon-kudos
    to the parents of Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, who were not capable of producing offspring
    with correct metrics.\r\n\r\n(His metrics must be regarded as incorrect, because
    he can no longer be mixed with other humans in a line of airplane seats, since
    the knees begin to collide into backs.)"
  created: '2007-08-07 21:48:03'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "The Adobe PST1 Specs say \"typical\", not more. And <cite>Schriftstatistik</cite>
    contains exactly that: statistics. It is data provided \"for your consideration\",
    not more.\r\nThe great thing about digital type is that it freed designers from
    restrictions as regards the body, and thus ascender and descender heights.\r\n\r\nThe
    problem is not fonts, but applications. OT and TT fonts already include x- and
    H-height values, so application could well allow a typographer to define type
    size by x- or H-Height (or ascender or descender height, if you like). If applications
    or CSS don't do this, it is not the fault of font formats or type designers.\r\nThe
    x- and H-height ratio is a design decision. Imagine Bickham with \"correctly\"
    dimensioned ascenders/descenders and according vertical metrics -- would be a
    nice caricature.&nbsp;&nbsp;:)"
  created: '2007-08-08 07:30:51'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "The question of Mr. Herrmann was whether you can substitute Arial etc. by
    Calibri etc. in as CSS, i.e. in a website cascading style sheet.\r\n\r\nThe answer
    is NO, because the rendered point size of Calibri is much smaller than the rendered
    point size of Arial etc. due to the incorrect metrics of Calibri.\r\n\r\nI enlarged
    my initial calibri.pdf document by two additional examples:\r\n\r\nsee new file
    http://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/calibri.pdf\r\n\r\nThe first new example
    shows mixing of Constantia with an Indic font with 300 units caps height.\r\n\r\nThe
    second new example shows mixing of Constantia with Calibri with 3oo units caps
    height.\r\n\r\nThese examples make it clear that you cannot use two fonts in the
    same text, if the two fonts do not have the same metrics.\r\n\r\nMr. L\xFCcke
    claims that \"applications could well allow a typographer to define type size
    by x-height or H-height\". This is the typical \"frog in the well\" attitude shown
    by most Typophilers. Since most of them never learnt Indic scripts etc., they
    do not know that most non-Latin fonts do not have lowercase and uppercase letters.
    They behave like the Japanese fairy-tale frog in the well who know nothing of
    the rest of the world.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-08 09:20:01'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>The answer is NO, because the rendered point size of Calibri is much
    smaller than the rendered point size of Arial etc. due to the incorrect metrics
    of Calibri.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe answer is NO, because CSS does not \"scale the fonts
    according to the x-height\" as Ralf Hermann wrote in his original post. That's
    all.\r\n\r\n<cite>... shows mixing of Constantia with Calibri ... These examples
    make it clear that you cannot use two fonts in the same text, if the two fonts
    do not have the same metrics.</cite>\r\n\r\nTherefore it is still up to typographers
    to combine typefaces that match. Either one decides that matching x-height is
    more important (text), or matching H-height is more important (all caps setting).\r\nAnd
    if <cite>all</cite> metrics should match, type designers sometimes make the decision
    to design super-families with a serif and sanserif family, see Peter Bilak's thread
    <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/35727\">over here</a>. But this involves
    more than just vertical metrics, of equal importance are the typefaces' color
    (weight), style of curves, etc.\r\n\r\n<cite>This is the typical \"frog in the
    well\" attitude shown by most Typophilers. Since most of them never learnt Indic
    scripts etc., they do not know that most non-Latin fonts do not have lowercase
    and uppercase letters.</cite>\r\n\r\nMy brother is into indoeuropean studies,
    so I am aware of this and other problems (non-standard encodings, use of strange
    tools to get at Indic scripts' ligatures, etc) which make it a pain to typeset
    even a simple scholarly text."
  created: '2007-08-08 10:11:59'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I guess there is a technical reason for that. Does anyone know why that
    is?\"\r\n\r\nThe \"CT Collection\" are smaller on the body than Verdana and Georgia
    because they were made differently, i.e. not for use specifically as screen fonts,
    not maximized for use at small sizes in low resolutions. That's all I know for
    certain. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-08-08 12:30:47'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> The \u201CCT Collection\u201D are smaller on the body than Verdana and
    Georgia\r\n\r\nConstantia must be ruled out, because the caps height of Georgia
    is 1419 units and that of Constantia is 1400 units, so that both fonts have more
    or less identical caps height metrics.\r\n\r\nCambria must also be ruled out,
    for its caps height of 1365 units is sufficient.\r\n\r\nSo, the main culprits
    are Calibri, Candara and Consolas, whose caps heights are insufficient and untolerable.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-08 15:33:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I'm working on a super family at the moment, where the x-height of the sans
    and serif regular fonts are different.\r\nMy decision is based on the way people
    use type in layouts.\r\nGenerally, different weights and styles are more likely
    to be contrasted in adjacent paragraph blocks than in adjacent words in the same
    line. So the important thing is to give your types proportions which create harmony
    in that kind of usage.\r\n\r\nBut as I've said, I haven't worked with the Cleartype
    fonts.\r\nI don't think that one can make meaningful statements about the way
    types interact on the page by comparing a few dimension -- you have to see it
    in context as well.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-08 16:42:27'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Don't feed the troll.
  created: '2007-08-08 17:19:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I may occasionally disagree with Uli but I like his attitude.
  created: '2007-08-08 18:15:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Cross-family consistency in the CT fonts was modelled on having identical
    vertical metrics in the OS/2 table, so that fonts from the different families
    could be used together on the same line of text without the interline spacing
    being distorted by the presence of a font with larger OS/2 metrics within a block
    of text. Since one of the prime targets for these fonts was MS Word, and we knew
    most users would not manually set interline spacing values but accept default
    linespacing, I still think this was a sensible decision.\r\n\r\nCross-family <em>visual</em>
    consistency was aimed at by coordinating similar x-heights <em>not similar cap
    heights</em> (as Uli seems to want). Most text is in lowercase letters, not all
    caps, so coordinating cap height seems to me pointless and guaranteed to create
    inconsistent text colour unless all fonts have an indentical cap-to-x height proportion.
    If I recall correctly, the Constantia x-height is slightly shorter than the other
    CT fonts, and the Consolas x-height is slightly taller. But the others are very
    close."
  created: '2007-08-08 21:15:54'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<cite>Cross-family consistency in the CT fonts was modelled on having identical
    vertical metrics in the OS/2 table, so that fonts from the different families
    could be used together on the same line of text without the interline spacing
    being distorted by the presence of a font with larger OS/2 metrics within a block
    of text. Since one of the prime targets for these fonts was MS Word, and we knew
    most users would not manually set interline spacing values but accept default
    linespacing, I still think this was a sensible decision.</cite>\r\n\r\nI agree
    that this was a sensible decision. However, there is the problem that the glyph
    metrics differ noticeably among the CT fonts (e.g. Calibri versus Constantia)
    and therefore only by voluntarily fixing identical OS/2 values this identical
    interline spacing could be achieved. \r\n\r\n<cite>Cross-family visual consistency
    was aimed at by coordinating similar x-heights not similar cap heights (as Uli
    seems to want). Most text is in lowercase letters, not all caps, so coordinating
    cap height seems to me pointless and guaranteed to create inconsistent text colour
    unless all fonts have an indentical cap-to-x height proportion. If I recall correctly,
    the Constantia x-height is slightly shorter than the other CT fonts, and the Consolas
    x-height is slightly taller. But the others are very close.</cite>\r\n\r\nI will
    not discuss here whether caps heights are \"pointless\", because the fact that
    for instance in German texts capital letters are used much more frequently than
    in English texts can be ignored here, since the CT fonts were designed for Americans
    and not for Germans etc.\r\n\r\nThe problem with Calibri is not the coordination
    of caps heights, but that ALL glyphs of Calibri, i.e. both lowercase and uppercase
    glyphs, do not sufficiently fill the glyph grid with the consequence that the
    glyphs look too small. The grid is the same, but there is too much white space
    around the black glyphs (if printed in black color on white paper), and hence
    they look too small as compared with Arial, Helvetica and similar sanserif fonts.\r\n\r\nLet's
    look at\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/calibri-arial.htm\r\n\r\nIn
    case you don't have Calibri and Arial installed on your computer, you can instead
    look at the PDF file\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/calibri-arial.pdf\r\n\r\nIt
    is obvious that Calibri in the left column looks much smaller than Arial in the
    right column, although the sample texts are typeset in the very same point sizes.
    How come that Calibri looks smaller than Arial? The answer is that the glyphs
    of Calibri do not sufficiently fill the 2048-grid of this TrueType font, as compared
    with Arial and Helvetica and similar fonts.\r\n\r\nLet's look at\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/grid2048.gif\r\n\r\nTo
    the left we see the uppercase \"I\" of the TrueType Helvetica (version 1.0), which
    has a caps height of 1470 units, followed by the uppercase \"I\" of Calibra, which
    has a caps height of 1300 units.\r\n\r\nTo the right we see the lowercase \"x\"
    of the TrueType Helvetica, whose x-height is 1071 units, followed by the \"x\"
    of Calibra, whose x-height is 956 units.\r\n\r\nThis means that the absolute values
    of BOTH caps height AND x-height of Calibra are too small, and hence there is
    too much white space around the glyphs in the 2048 units TrueType grid, and hence
    Calibra looks too small.\r\n\r\nSince the caps height occupies usually two thirds
    (2/3) of the grid, i.e. roughly 70% of 2048 units, it follows that the caps height
    measured in grid units or in percentage can be used to determine whether a font
    looks too small or not. This can be proved by the following test:\r\n\r\nLet's
    look at\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/caps-height.pdf\r\n\r\nIn
    the first row (H1470-100%) we see the original TrueType Helvetica with a caps
    height of 1470 units. This original vertical size is regarded here as 100 per
    cent for comparison.\r\n\r\nIn the second row (H1176-80%) we see the down-scaled
    Helvetica, where all glyphs (both uppercase and lowercase) have been reduced to
    80% of the original size of all glyphs.\r\n\r\nIn the third row (H882-60%) we
    see the down-scaled Helvetica, where all glyphs (both uppercase and lowercase)
    have been reduced to 60% of the original size of all glyphs.\r\n\r\nNow look at
    the three \"Hamburgefonts\" sample texts, all three of which were typeset in the
    very same point size of 36 points on 36 points body:\r\n\r\nThe H1176 sample text
    looks smaller than the original H1470 sample text, and the H882 sample text looks
    still smaller than the other two sample texts.\r\n\r\nThis proves: Whenever the
    glyphs of a font do not sufficiently fill the 2048-grid of TTF fonts (or the 1000-grid
    of PS fonts), the glyphs look too small, because there is too much white space
    around the black glyphs.\r\n\r\nThat is why Calibri looks much smaller than Arial,
    Helvetica and similar sanserif fonts, since the glyphs of Calibri (both lowercase
    and uppercase) do not sufficiently fill the 2048-grid.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-09 10:38:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Perhaps the smaller size wasn't done for the benefit of American readers,
    but Slovak, Vietnamese etc., -- to accomodate diacritics.\r\n\r\nI don't think
    that being \"small on the body\" is inherently wrong for a face -- different conventions
    exist. For instance, news faces are large on the body, and many Emigre fonts are
    small on the body -- and generously spaced -- to create an open look straight
    \"off the shelf\".\r\n\r\nIn fact, as the CT fonts are targeted at Word, the built-in
    open leading is part of an appropriately less strident effect than, for instance
    Verdana, which for all its merits, is a strong cup of tea.\r\n\r\nSo what we're
    seeing is a more sophisticated look from Microsoft."
  created: '2007-08-09 18:35:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>It is obvious that Calibri in the left column looks much smaller than
    Arial in the right column, although the sample texts are typeset in the very same
    point sizes. How come that Calibri looks smaller than Arial? The answer is that
    the glyphs of Calibri do not sufficiently fill the 2048-grid of this TrueType
    font, as compared with Arial and Helvetica and similar fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    OS/2 WinAscent value in Arial is 1854 units. The tallest glyph in the Arial font
    is /Aringacute/, the top of which is at 2060 units. That means that more than
    200 units of visible glyph in the Arial font falls beyond the WinAscent height,
    which means it will be clipped in all GDI applications and many printers. The
    uppercase Vietnamese diacritics in Arial are only kept within the vertical metrics
    by horribly squishing and distorting their shapes.\r\n\r\nMany of the world's
    orthographies need greater vertical space than the inherited scaling and metrics
    of Anglo-American and western European font development. If you are making fonts
    that you anticipate being extended to support additional languages, the last thing
    you want to do is to make them too large on the body, since vertical metrics usually
    cannot be increased due to backwards compatibility and document reflow issues.
    This is the trap that Arial and many other core fonts fell into."
  created: '2007-08-09 19:23:25'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "I wonder why both Mr. Shinn and Mr. Hudson mention Vietnamese, because Calibri
    does not cover Vietnamese diacritics. For instance, Vietnamese diacritics with
    m\xF3c are missing in the Calibri font (and these m\xF3c diacritics are also missing
    in the Constantia font, for that matter).\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-09 19:40:03'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Shinn:\r\n\r\n> \u201Csmall on the body\u201D\r\n\r\nCould you please
    define exactly what you mean by this technical term.\r\n\r\nIn the old German
    letterpress printer's parlance we had two completely different terms so that I
    am not sure which term exactly you mean by your above English expression, dating
    back to the foundry era, in view of digital fonts under discussion."
  created: '2007-08-09 20:29:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I mentioned Vietnamese and Slovak because their diacritics take up a lot
    of space.\r\nBut in fact, the most vertically challenging accent to squeeze in,
    at least in my experience as a type designer, is capital A ring.\r\nSo perhaps
    CT fonts are Scandinavian-friendly.\r\n\r\nThe \"body\" is indeed a metal type
    term, otherwise known as the \"shank\". In a piece of type, it's the rectangular
    column of metal of which the letter shape forms the top part.\r\nSo \"small on
    the body\" means \"small on the em square\", or, as you might say, \"small on
    the grid\".\r\nYeah, I know, it's an archaic term, but I like the suggestion of
    a tangible space it gives to the em square -- for me, digital line spacing that
    deals with the distances between parts of glyphs just doesn't \"get\" what typography
    is, and is responsible for a lot of difficulties. \r\n\r\nPlease, call me Nick,
    unless you're 16 or younger."
  created: '2007-08-09 21:02:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I wonder why both Mr. Shinn and Mr. Hudson mention Vietnamese, because
    Calibri does not cover Vietnamese diacritics.</em>\r\n\r\nIt doesn't in the current
    release version, but you can expect that it will in future versions, and not only
    Vietnamese. The point I am making is that maxing out the size of the glyphs in
    the em space without giving thought to the future extension of the typeface for
    other languages is a mistake. Basing such decisions on what characters a font
    supports in its first development phase is short-sighted, especially when the
    font is being made for a company that is dedicated to internationalisation and
    that has a long history of extending their fonts to support additional languages.
    The phase 1 CT font development was aimed at modern European languages, but it
    would be na\xEFve to think that this would be the limit of their support."
  created: '2007-08-10 00:43:30'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "1)\r\n\r\n> It doesn\u2019t in the current release version, but you can expect
    that it will in future versions\r\n\r\nI am pleased to learn that Vietnamese diacritics
    are to be expected in future font versions. Since many Americans do not regard
    Vietnamese as human beings, but as \"weed\" belonging to the \"axis of evil\",
    and therefore annihilated millions of them as \"weed\" using herbicides (\"Agent
    Orange\" etc.), it is laudable that today some Americans plan to offer fonts in
    the future for those who survived the herbicidal annihilation.\r\n\r\n2)\r\n\r\n>
    it will be clipped in all GDI applications\r\n\r\nFor those who have not yet experienced
    this phenomenon, I have prepared an illustrative example.\r\n\r\nsee http://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/l-candrabindu.pdf\r\n\r\n>
    the most vertically challenging accent to squeeze in, at least in my experience
    as a type designer, is capital A ring.\r\n\r\nThis is a challenging case indeed,
    but the worst case of all in my experience is not ordinary capital letters with
    ring etc. diacritic, but lowercase ascender letters such as \"l\" and \"k\", which
    often extend the ordinary capital height, especially in almost all old-style typefaces,
    as shown by above ascender letter \"l\" with candrabindu on top of it.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-10 10:08:46'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "My advice would be to avoid \"the weed\" while posting to typophile. Also
    the \"Americans\" in question are Welsh, Irish, Pakistani, Engish and Canadian.\r\n\r\nAnyhow,
    in the process of adding Vietnamese to these fonts we did have issues with Cambria,
    whereas for Calibri and Consolas things went pretty smoothly. \r\n\r\nWith respect
    to clipping it's been our experience that printers do not clip, and that increasing
    leading mitigates the issue. I feel that for a document font clipping is preferable
    to having marks that crash together or crash into the base.  \r\n\r\nCheers, Si
    \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-10 16:19:34'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<cite>The \u201Cbody\u201D is indeed a metal type term, otherwise known as
    the \u201Cshank\u201D. In a piece of type, it\u2019s the rectangular column of
    metal of which the letter shape forms the top part.\r\nSo \u201Csmall on the body\u201D
    means \u201Csmall on the em square\u201D, or, as you might say, \u201Csmall on
    the grid\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nThanks for the explanation. Now that I know how
    you define the term \"body\", I made three experimental fonts. Here is the result
    of my tests.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/em.pdf\r\n\r\nIn case
    someone wants to experiment too, I can upload the three Em1.ttf, Em2.ttf, Em3.ttf
    experimental fonts too for download.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-10 17:14:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the worst case of all in my experience</em>\r\n\r\nRight. I forgot that
    I had wrestled with l-acute and h-circumflex!"
  created: '2007-08-10 19:03:13'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"My advice would be to avoid \u201Cthe weed\u201D while posting to typophile.
    \"\r\n\r\nAnd possibly also excessive drink.  ;) "
  created: '2007-08-10 23:32:13'
date: '2007-08-04 19:48:07'
title: Why are the ClearType font so small?

---
