---
author:
  name: blank
body: "The last professional conference I went to involved representatives from every
  US military service and intelligence agency sitting around giving each other the
  evil eye. Having survived that mess, I can really appreciate when a conference is
  great. So I just want to thank Tamye, everyone at S{o}TA, all the volunteers, the
  people from SVC and Cornish, the sponsors, and the speakers for making Typecon 2007
  the best vacation I\u2019ve had in years. "
comments:
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "That's an amusing coincidence, military people ans SoTA mentioned in a same
    message. Sota in Finnish means war.\r\n\r\nI'm SO envious of all you who went
    to Typecon 2007. Glad to hear it was a success."
  created: '2007-08-06 07:02:43'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: It was! :-) Now I must sleep...
  created: '2007-08-06 08:14:33'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "It was excellent! Congratulations to everyone that made it happen.\r\nI'm
    already looking forward to next year. (Even have a couple ideas for workshops
    already!)"
  created: '2007-08-06 08:43:12'
- author:
    name: bowfinpw
    picture: 110174
  body: "It was my first one and I didn't miss a talk. For the most part, each talk
    offered something thought-provoking, stimulating, informative or funny (sometimes
    all of the above). Just two highlights for me were:1) Bill Hill's (Microsoft)
    inspiring talk about the Digital Renaissance we're all part of. If this is the
    guy Bill Gates wants to keep dreaming about the future of digital typography,
    then I may have to revise my feelings about that company. 2) The talk by Mexican
    Font designers Gabriel Mart\xEDnez Meave and Leonardo V\xE1zquez Conde was an
    informative and eye-opening look about the history and vitality of the Mexican
    type community. I want to learn a lot more about those designers.\r\n\r\nTamye
    and the gang, including 'Stewf' Coles, did a great job of planning it and keeping
    it moving right along. The Typophile Film Festival 4 was sensational. 'Helvetica',
    the movie, is a must see if you get the chance.\r\n\r\nIt was terrific to finally
    meet so many Typophiles I have only 'seen' online before, but we really need a
    better way to spot each other. I have no idea how many of you I missed because
    I couldn't read the last names on the badges unless you were inside someone's
    personal space. That was really my only complaint. \r\n\r\n- Mike Yanega"
  created: '2007-08-06 16:09:23'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The talk by Mexican Font designers Gabriel Mart\xEDnez Meave and Leonardo
    V\xE1zquez Conde was an informative and eye-opening look about the history and
    vitality of the Mexican type community.</cite>\r\n\r\nI want those guys to write
    a book, and I want it to be the first in a series. That talk was my favorite!"
  created: '2007-08-06 18:34:29'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>but we really need a better way to spot each other</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    printing the Typophile avatar on the badge :)"
  created: '2007-08-06 19:38:28'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Or at least the user name. \r\n\r\nWhat was surprising was the amount of
    people who have never even heard of Typophile. There were a couple of local AIGA
    guys here, pretty nice guys, who knew next to nothing about this forum. \r\n\r\nBut
    again, the amount of people who DO participate here was also surprising. Most
    of the type designers participate, exceptions being people like Matthew Carter
    and John Downer.\r\n\r\nThe other thing that was surprising was how familiar and
    friendly the entire type community is with each other. Competitors and rivals
    are friends and compatriots, all with the twofold goals of learning and having
    fun. Newcomers are treated as if old friends, and even the old-timers have time
    to sit and chat with students who haven't even had a full year's worth of design.\r\n\r\nBravo!"
  created: '2007-08-06 20:13:55'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Newcomers are treated as if old friends, and even the old-timers have
    time to sit and chat with students who haven\u2019t even had a full year\u2019s
    worth of design.</cite>\r\n\r\nAgreed. Type designers are some of the friendliest
    and most humble folks I have ever come across."
  created: '2007-08-06 20:29:14'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "My First TypeCon\xAE was everything I hoped it would be. SOTA and the volunteers
    pulled off the very difficult job of making a complicated event appear to go off
    without a hitch. As Dan says (hi Dan!), the friendly vibe really was a highlight,
    along with finally putting a face to folks like Stewf, Tamye, Kent Lew, Mark Simonson,
    Nick Shinn, William Berkson and more.\r\n\r\nI'm looking forward to Buffalo next
    year!"
  created: '2007-08-06 20:34:26'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "I second the suggestion that Gabriel and Leonardo write a book. In fact,
    I told them that, and suggested they do one on the palaeography, one on the more
    recent history, and a new one (in a few years) about the current wave of digital
    type designers from Mexico. Their presentation was amazing. \r\n\r\nThanks to
    them and to everyone who traveled far (and endured tiresome travel delays) to
    participate, and especially to the SOTA board who all spent incredible energy
    and time to make things exciting and informative. This really was the best TypeCon
    I've been to. "
  created: '2007-08-06 21:04:58'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I'm still amazed at the fact that a picture of a fish was shown by Gabriel
    to mean Cocoa. I mean, dammit, it's a fish! But it phonetically spells out cocoa!\r\n\r\nThose
    guys must have been geniuses. \r\n\r\nHi Marc!"
  created: '2007-08-06 21:13:03'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: It is amazing how SOTA pulls off so much work with a volunteer army.
  created: '2007-08-06 21:47:50'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Not only a volunteer army, but a volunteer army that isn't composed entirely
    of Type nerds. Most of the rest of the volunteers were university students with
    very little knowledge of type or type design, or of the major players involved.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-06 22:06:31'
- author:
    name: bowfinpw
    picture: 110174
  body: "Marc, I am sorry I missed meeting you. I especially wanted to meet to Type
    ID Board folks that were there.\r\n\r\n- Mike Yanega"
  created: '2007-08-07 01:33:06'
- author:
    name: Kunihiko_Okano
    picture: 110217
  body: "Thanks TypeCon Seattle, thanks all exciting type guys, and thanks all volunteers.\r\nI
    really enjoyed this conference. I was not good at English but all participants
    were really kind to me.\r\nI'm gonna leave Seattle tomorrow but I'll never forget
    this TypeCon.\r\nI hope to go to Buffalo next year. I love TypeCon!"
  created: '2007-08-07 05:44:22'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Thanks for coming, Kunihiko\u2014I already downloaded your AXIS samples!"
  created: '2007-08-07 06:14:39'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "If you haven't seen Kunihiko Okano's work - you should.\r\n\r\nI echo Mike
    Yanega &  Carl's comments Re: Gabriel and Leonardo! Too right. If you have a chance
    to see them doing Calligraphy- DONT MISS IT!"
  created: '2007-08-07 07:52:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I always have a blast.\r\nAnyone who's even been on the board or organizing
    committee of a grassroots organization, you know how much time it takes to sort
    things out with people representing stakeholders from such a diversity of folk
    who make up the particular community.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-07 15:09:05'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "To further echo the sentiments expressed here, this year for me Typecon was
    really a pleasure . . .\r\n\r\nRunning smoother than I have ever seen it having
    been a former board member it was really a thrill to see how it has matured.\r\n\r\nIt
    was of course nice to meet many Typophiles and old friends and to reconnect with
    the typographic community 'analog style'\r\n\r\nAlready planning for Buffalo next
    year . . .\r\n\r\nStuart :D"
  created: '2007-08-07 15:52:15'
- author:
    name: oogby
    picture: 110425
  body: "I'm so very glad I came back this year (after a half-decade break), and I
    can't wait to make this a regular thing again.\r\n\r\nThanks everybody!"
  created: '2007-08-07 15:57:21'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "Mike, sorry we didn't connect. I'll keep an eye out for you in Buffalo!\r\n\r\nMarc"
  created: '2007-08-07 18:00:51'
- author:
    name: delve
    picture: 110483
  body: "In no particular order, thanks to: Stewf, Coltz, Tamye, Tiffany, Shu, Grieshaber,
    Kent, and all the volunteers and presenters. I know it was a lot of hard work
    and I really appreciate all you folks did. You have my gratitude for making TC07
    a wonderful experience.\r\n\r\nAlso, it was great to meet so many people interested
    in the letter arts and to reconnect with my old friends and acquaintances in the
    type community.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-08 00:32:06'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: A very special thanks from this SOTA Board Member to Kent "Linchpin" Lew.
    It may be clear to a few outsiders that Kent was a key factor in keeping this
    year's 'Con running smooth, but it was <em>really</em> obvious to those of us
    on the inside. His stamina and enthusiasm is remarkable.
  created: '2007-08-08 01:41:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Kent is da man Lew, thanks to him and the rest of the Board and those energetic
    smiling faced volunteers who were all top notch!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-08 01:48:18'
- author:
    name: cheshiredave
    picture: 110433
  body: "Adding my thanks to the list -- not having been able to go to the last two,
    and not having stayed at the hotel for 2004's in SF, I really got the full flavor
    this year. I left inspired to rededicate myself to focusing more on the type aspect
    of my design work, making it more the star than the supporting cast.\r\n\r\nIt's
    interesting to me how many non-type-designers who were there. Not being a type
    designer myself, it's nice to connect with people who are in the same boat as
    I am. (Don't get me wrong, I love meeting and reconnecting with all the type designers
    as well!)\r\n\r\nHighlights: Gabriel and Leo (a really stellar presentation),
    Nick Shinn (the <em>Globe and Mail</em> type & layout are so cool), the Film Fest
    (plus Joe & Jared's excellent party DJ-ing), the eccentric genius Robert Bringhurst
    (he makes me want to be a linguist), and Marian Bantjes (I don't care what Bringhurst
    says, that program was brilliant), among many others. Kudos as well to tech giant
    JP who kept so many things running smoothly.\r\n\r\nBiggest disappointment: Downer
    kept his shirt on the whole time during the party.\r\n\r\nI hope I can make it
    to Buffalo next year. But my biggest wish is that Tamye, Kent, Tiff, Stewf, Shu,
    Jon, et al, get to actually enjoy the fruits of their labors and see more of the
    presentations themselves."
  created: '2007-08-08 02:00:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks to Tamye, the Board, volunteers and everybody who dug a little deeper
    to make it all happen.\r\nSpecial thanks to Marian Bantjes for doing the conference
    identity; it was so very postmodern that, as a conference speaker, she presented
    her portfolio--with a step by step explanation of how the the conference ID came
    about. "
  created: '2007-08-08 03:35:41'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "Where are all the pictures? Did I miss some links?\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2007-08-08 04:38:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: http://www.flickr.com/search/?q=typecon&s=rec
  created: '2007-08-08 04:59:17'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Pictures are going up all the time now - the ones I took included. Maybe I
    can figure out a way of getting the delay back to 24 hours again...
  created: '2007-08-08 05:55:57'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "I've looked through quite a few, including yours, Eben. Looks like a great
    time. I love the calligraphy. Nice to see some or your faces and I appreciate
    those who put the names of the faces in the picture titles.\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2007-08-08 06:06:34'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: <a href="http://www.flickr.com/groups/85628044@N00/">TypeCon Flickr Group</a>
  created: '2007-08-08 07:52:17'
- author:
    name: Corey Holms
    picture: 110575
  body: TypeCon 07 was my first conference ever, and I had one hell of a good time.
    Thanks to all that organized it, and thanks to everyone I met in Seattle. I'll
    be adding to the Flickr group as soon as I have a moment to stop spinning from
    all the catch-up work I have to do :(
  created: '2007-08-08 08:00:17'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Dang, why did it have to be the first week of August? I missed being there
    and meeting some new faces. :^/\r\n\r\nI really hope I can fit Buffalo in my work
    schedule. Maybe next year\u2026"
  created: '2007-08-08 14:51:31'
- author:
    name: bowfinpw
    picture: 110174
  body: "Yves, I was bummed that you weren't there. I hope we can converge at a TypeCon
    in the future, so I can just shake your hand.\r\n\r\n- Mike Yanega"
  created: '2007-08-08 16:01:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mike,\r\nYou also want to see Yves dance!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-08 16:43:33'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Well, I finally got back home yesterday midday. \"Red-eye\" flights are aptly
    named, and I was practically useless the rest of the day, barely managing to unpack
    and sort my mail. But I was able to get 12+ hours of sleep last night and feel
    nearly back to normal now (though I'm probably still running a sleep deficit).\r\n\r\nIt
    was great to connect with some new faces this year. Reading through the various
    follow-up threads, however, I realize that there are many Typophiles that I didn't
    manage to meet, which is a bummer. I realize that when I'm very busy I can unintentionally
    put off a vibe of aloofness or unapproachability; I hope that next year, y'all
    will take a moment to grab me and introduce yourselves.\r\n\r\nI didn't get to
    sit through any presentations in their entirety, but I did manage to catch decent
    snippets of a good many, and I have to say that I think this year's program may
    have been among the best overall that I can recall. Tamye (with help from the
    local committee) did a stellar job putting it all together.\r\n\r\n<cite>Stephen:
    Kent \u201CLinchpin\u201D Lew.</cite>\r\n\r\n\"Linchpin\" . . . I like that. Thanks
    for the acknowledgment. It was a real pleasure getting to work closely together
    again with you.\r\n\r\nThe SoTA board is a volunteer, working board. We each invest
    a lot of personal time and energy to present a professional caliber conference
    every year. I may have been a bit more visible than many this year, but my colleagues
    all work hard throughout the conference, and I extend my personal thanks to all
    of them -- Allan Haley, Jon Coltz, Tiffany Wardle de Sousa, Stephen \"Stewf\"
    Coles, Shu Yun Lai, James Grieshaber, Ilene Strizver, and Mark Jamra. Two of our
    number were conspicuously absent, for unavoidable personal reasons, but David
    Hollingsworth and Laurence Penney were supporting from afar, and I look forward
    to having them with us again in Buffalo.\r\n\r\nThere were two non-Board members
    who contributed greatly in managing important aspects of this year's Con, and
    I want to make sure they get due recognition -- Michelle Hill was our volunteer
    coordinator extraordinaire (as well as a great personal support to me throughout)
    and Deb Gonet managed the pre-conference workshops as well as a number of other
    important things throughout the weekend which would have otherwise fallen through
    the cracks.\r\n\r\nThe local volunteers were indeed top-notch. Most were students
    with little knowledge or even interest in type (although I'm certain that has
    changed now), but they were smart, enthusiastic, and hard-working. There were
    too many to thank individually here. But among the handful of non-students who
    lent a big volunteer hand, I want to personally thank Jane Jolkovski (from Monotype)
    and Jeff Barlow (typography chair from the Seattle AIGA chapter).\r\n\r\nTypeCon
    may only be one week out of the year, but it takes at least a year of nearly constant
    preparation to put together. The board members may work hard during the week of,
    but our extraordinary (and seemingly indefatigable) Executive Director Tamye Riggs
    works equally hard all year round. None of it would be remotely possible without
    all her amazing efforts. Major kudos once again to Tamye.\r\n\r\nWhen you're working
    from the inside, it can be hard to maintain any real perspective, so I think I
    speak on behalf of all the organizers when I say that we take great satisfaction
    in hearing about the wonderful experiences of the attendees. So keep 'em coming.\r\n\r\n--
    Kent."
  created: '2007-08-08 18:22:12'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I've been to five of these now and this was one of the best, mainly because
    I was able to meet up with and talk to so many different people (including many
    I had not met before). I also finally arranged it so I wouldn't have to duck out
    early on Sunday and miss the closing party. Thanks to Tamye, Kent, Stephen and
    everyone else who made it happen. Viva Buffalo!
  created: '2007-08-08 20:15:29'
- author:
    name: Leonardo Vazquez
    picture: 112901
  body: "Me and Gabriel are very happy of our experience at our first SOTA event.
    Thanks to you all guys. We realized that there's a lot of work to do! and of course,
    there are many ideas for the next Typecon event. \r\nApologies,  I have been very
    busy trying to put online my site.... so for the moment you can write me to my
    email.... thanks for your patience\r\n\r\nL."
  created: '2007-08-08 21:06:40'
- author:
    name: weinziet
    picture: 110727
  body: I'm starting a savings account so I can attend TypeCon in Buffalo next year.
    I can't wait!
  created: '2007-08-08 21:53:00'
- author:
    name: j.hadley
    picture: 112720
  body: "Big fun in Seattle! I haven't been to TypeCon since Ess Eff a couple of years
    ago. It was great to see old friends and meet new ones. Kudos to SOTA and everyone
    else involved for putting on another great event!\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-09 03:04:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I have been to a lot of type-related conferences over the past 13 years, and
    TypeCon Seattle was definitely one of the best. I can only think of a handful
    of other conferences that have been as good or better in some respects, and only
    one or two that were as consistently interesting or enjoyable.
  created: '2007-08-09 06:06:44'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "Kudos to the committee members, to the volunteers, to the sponsors, and to
    all those who participated. Thank you for giving me something that I want to be
    part of...\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2007-08-09 06:13:45'
- author:
    name: bardahl
    picture: 110122
  body: "I agree. This TypeCon Seattle was one of the best conferences I have assisted
    to. I enjoyed many presentations, specially the one by Gabriel and Leonardo. This
    is the first time I see Leonardo speaking, but I have seen Gabriel many times:
    I am not surprised, Gabriel always works hard to give the best of himself, and
    he has great ideas too. I really hope to see both in many future presentations.\r\n\r\nCongratulations
    and thanks to Tamye, the volunteers, sponsors, board, and every one who work hard
    to make this happen. See you in Buffalo.\r\n\r\nSaludos.\r\n\r\nJorge de Buen\r\njorge.debuen@caliente.com.mx\r\nTijuana
    (M\xE9xico)"
  created: '2007-08-09 23:43:10'
- author:
    name: Sharon Hoffmann
  body: This was my first TypeCon and I had such a wonderful time. I sometimes thought
    that my head would explode from all of the images and input, but I survived and
    look forward to my next experience.
  created: '2007-08-10 05:51:38'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I had a great time, but I feel like I was so busy with conference stuff and
    shmoozing with the usual colleagues that I missed meeting a lot of Typophiles.\r\n\r\nPlease
    do feel free to introduce yourselves next time, okay? Just remind me what your
    Typophile name is, as I may not connect \"James Puckett\" with \"jpad\" and that
    sort of thing.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-08-10 08:22:17'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Another reason we should go back to the days when there were no user names
    on Typophile, only full names.
  created: '2007-08-10 08:56:55'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I'll second both of those statements!
  created: '2007-08-10 21:51:58'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "If any of the mods feels like changing my user name to my real name, feel
    free. That\u2019s what I get for not lurking longer before creating an account..."
  created: '2007-08-10 21:53:38'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: James, don't you have the option to do it? If you can't and really want it,
    I will change it for you.
  created: '2007-08-10 22:02:30'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Changing user names appears to be a moderator-only function, so please go
    for it.
  created: '2007-08-10 22:20:24'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: There you go James. :^) I guess I should follow suit.
  created: '2007-08-10 22:34:55'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Thanks!
  created: '2007-08-10 22:47:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I guess I should follow suit.</em>\r\n\r\nOr at least <em>Ms</em> Tiffany
    :-)"
  created: '2007-08-10 23:02:19'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Ehehe. Fair enough.
  created: '2007-08-10 23:22:12'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "Oh, will you change my user name, too?  I would like that!\r\n\r\nSharon
    Van Lieu"
  created: '2007-08-10 23:22:45'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Not a problem. Just don't forget that you have to login with this changed
    ID  next time. :^)
  created: '2007-08-10 23:24:33'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "Thank you, that's so nice.\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2007-08-10 23:29:09'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: You're welcome. :^)
  created: '2007-08-10 23:49:49'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Wow. Are we having a moment? That's so sweet. I like the idea of making people
    use their full names. No more hiding behind some anonymous persona. \r\n\r\nAnd
    then it would be easier to recognize who we should avoid at typecon ;)"
  created: '2007-08-11 03:25:07'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "I only wish Hrant \"Scourge of the Anonyrat\" Papazian was alive to see this...
    ;)\r\n\r\nWhere is he, anyway?"
  created: '2007-08-11 09:09:55'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "I'm late to the thread, sorry. I just wanted to say I had a great time at
    the conference and was thrilled to meet those of you I knew(-ish) and those of
    you I hadn't known of before. The conference seemed to go off without a hitch
    from my perspective, and that's no small feat, so kudos to the organizers and
    volunteers.\r\n\r\nI find the type community to be more egalitarian in general:
    humbler, in a way, than the design community. It seems to lack the strong cliques
    and hierarchies that become evident at design conferences. \r\n\r\nI liked the
    moments of heady technicality which get sprinkled throughout. It was an interesting
    mix of the handmade, the finely crafted and the truly geeky. \r\n\r\nA friend
    of mine remarked on the lack of type for motion or other non-print based media,
    and I think it's a valid point. The design community is notorious for ignoring
    that which doesn't appear in print, so maybe Typecon could keep a step ahead and
    keep that in mind for the future.\r\n\r\nSpeaking of which I wanted to thank the
    folks at Sansrival (I hope that's right) for the terrific motion work on The Thing.
    \r\n\r\n -marian"
  created: '2007-08-12 04:11:24'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I find the type community to be more egalitarian in general: humbler,
    in a way, than the design community. It seems to lack the strong cliques and hierarchies
    that become evident at design conferences.</cite>\r\n\r\nI agree completely. Even
    if I only get to attend one S{o}TA event a year, the membership is still a better
    investment than my AIGA membership was."
  created: '2007-08-12 05:33:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> ignoring that which doesn\u2019t appear in print,</em>\r\n\r\nMore web
    content would be good too.\r\nProblem is, it's always tougher to get type users
    to present -- except for the music poster guys, off course :-)\r\n\r\nFor TypeCon
    2002, I spent a lot of time courting various art directors -- magazine designers,
    packaging designers, advertising art directors, without much success. No matter
    they may be great typographers, type is still not big enough on their radar (or
    I wasn't) to warrant joining the speaker list. "
  created: '2007-08-12 15:51:55'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: I just arrived at home today after a few days in New York after Seattle. That
    was my first type conference and I really enjoyed to meet everybody there. All
    of you made me feel like a friend.
  created: '2007-08-13 01:41:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Well damn, Alejandro, you are a friend! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-13 20:41:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "A very special thanks goes out to Eben Sorkin for being a one-man photo-documenter!
    Have you guys seen the number and quality of phots he did for TypeCon this yer?
    Check out his Flickr set or the TypeCon Flickr group.\r\n\r\nhttp://flickr.com/groups/typecon/\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-27 14:27:24'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I'll second that. Eben has become the <a href="http://duncandavidson.com/">James
    Duncan Davidson</a> of TypeCon. (Davidson is famous for the <a href="http://flickr.com/photos/x180/354638930/in/photostream/">beautiful
    photos</a> he shoots at tech conferences.)
  created: '2007-08-27 15:11:26'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks for your kind words!\r\n\r\nSpeaking of which, I would like to invite
    my fellow Typophiles to join myself & Checko on the photo team.\r\n\r\nAnd if
    you don't want to shoot photos we could still use help processing & posting. I
    say this because my possibly deluded hope is that we can get a good hunk of the
    photos up in the same day/evening during TypeCon Buffalo.\r\n\r\nMark, thanks
    for the link. It will be a while before I am in that league."
  created: '2007-08-27 17:00:40'
- author:
    name: Jill Bell
    picture: 109751
  body: "I too had a wonderful time at the conference and really appreciate the efforts
    of all involved. Great job!\r\nAfter I sent some of my photos to about half a
    dozen people, I got tired of it and just put a bunch up on my old, bloated website
    and thought some others might enjoy them too.\r\nhttp://www.art.net/Studios/Visual/Jillbell/typeconseattle.html\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-27 21:15:23'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Thanks for posting those, Jill! It looks like the Photoshop script can't
    handle file names with ampersands. You should try <a href=\"http://flickr.com\">Flickr</a>.
    Once you get the hang of uploading, it's really simple to share photos.\r\n\r\nThe
    \"hottie\" with you and Joshua, by the way, is [[Zara Evens]]."
  created: '2007-08-28 02:09:06'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: <a href="http://www.art.net/Studios/Visual/Jillbell/TypeCon2007/Conference/images/Otmar%20on%20pig%201.jpg">Best
    pic of [[Otmar Hoefer]] ever.
  created: '2007-08-28 02:11:25'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "HA! I was waiting for someone to post that pic. I forgot who was there to
    take it. Thanks Jill!\r\n\r\nWe dared him to get up there. He was having so much
    fun. He had the glint of a mischievous little kid in his eyes.\r\n\r\nThe whole
    Linotype crew was a hoot to hang out with."
  created: '2007-08-28 02:29:29'
date: '2007-08-06 06:18:06'
title: The TypeCon 2007 thanks thread.

---
