---
author:
  name: dan_reynolds
  picture: 110440
body: <i>Eliminate the Electoral College, and actually count write-in votes, and then
  we would have a democracy.</i> <BR> <BR>Actually, if we eliminated the electoral
  college, we still wouldn&#39;t have a democracy. We live under a Republic. Without
  the electoral college, our Republic would oly gain <i>the direct election</i> of
  the president.
comments:
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;This is the fine work of the World Bank  <BR> <BR>Huh? The web site
    is of the International Textile, Garment &amp; Leather Workers&#39; Federation,
    and it doesn&#39;t mention the World Bank that I can see. <BR> <BR>By the way,
    the mention of <a href="http://www.guardian.co.uk/saturday_review/story/0%2C3605%2C465796%2C00.html"
    target="_blank">Amartya Sen</a> on your other link reminds me; he is known for
    pointing out that &#34;no famine has ever occurred in a country with a free press
    and regular elections&#34;.  <BR> <BR>Another of the great blessings of democracy
    and a liberal state.  <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>  <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-16 20:44:20'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: 'Mr Technicality. <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.newint.org/issue214/simply.htm"
    target="_blank">http://www.newint.org/issue214/simply.htm</a> <BR> <BR><b>WORLD
    BANK</b> <BR> <BR><i>By 1990 SAPs were in place across much of the Third World.
    The result was a massive haemorrhage of wealth from the poor nations to the rich
    - an estimated $50 billion in 1985 alone. Co-operation between the IMF and the
    World Bank has meant that Third World nations continue to pay the interest on
    their debts even as they accumulate new ones. The social effects have been devastating:
    increased malnutrition, illiteracy, infant mortality and poverty. UNICEF estimates
    a half million children died in 1988 alone as a result of debt-induced austerity
    measures. <BR> <BR>World Bank and IMF staff now exert more power in some Third
    World countries than government ministers. There is little proof their policies
    do anything more than help bankers collect interest. In fact competition for scarce
    export markets holds down prices and depresses wages. The main winners have been
    Western consumers and multinational corporations who benefit from both low commodity
    prices and low Third World wages. Resentment is growing in the poor nations as
    World Bank/IMF policies increase the drain of wealth from South to North and reinforce
    the inequality of the global system.</i> <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-16 21:02:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: William, your intricate network of delusions would be cute, if they didn&#39;t
    make me sick to my stomach. But I want you to keep spewing the miasma, because
    it will remind people exactly what&#39;s wrong. In fact what makes your ilk hard
    to banish is that you&#39;re generally quiet, causing the misery form the background.
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-03-16 21:09:41'
- author:
    name: azeli
    picture: 109999
  body: '&#62; And for our friend that is frightened by the great Cuban liberator,
    Fidel Castro. Worse &#62;things have happened in Cuba by Americans torturing innocent
    youths. Human rights &#62;dictatorship vs human rights democracy. <BR> <BR>Gerald,
    maybe you should try to explain the difference to those incarcerated &#40;77 persons
    in last month&#41; for the decades &#40;10-28 yrs&#41; for a typewriter possession.
    Fidel Castro is plain dictator like Hitler, Stalin or Lenin. There is no excuse
    for the silly words you have written. <BR> <BR>Pavel '
  created: '2004-03-16 21:52:29'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Gerald: <BR> <BR>It&#39;s all very well to blame the loans, but would the
    Third World have really been better off without that money? What would have been
    the result of no loans? <BR> <BR>William: <BR> <BR>It might be true that no famine
    has ever occurred in a country with regular elections and a free press. But this
    raises a cause/effect question: isn&#39;t it quite possible that relative affluence
    is the root of regular elections and a free press, as well as of not having famines?
    It seems like this is a necessary pre-requisite for both. <BR> <BR>It seems to
    me that even in a democracy with regular elections and a free press, if there
    are sufficient social divisions &#40;perhaps ethnic or religious&#41; which correspond
    with regional divisions, famine is still possible. Imagine if the great depression
    of the 1930s with the American &#34;dustbowl&#34; of former farmland had occurred
    in a country with the internal tensions of a Yugoslavia.... <BR> <BR>Must get
    back to work! <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2004-03-16 21:54:44'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: '&#62;&#62;We have one kind of democratic respresentation. The decision to
    include geographic weighting &#40;as we do in the Senate of the US also&#41; may
    be debatable or imperfect but it is still a democratic system.  <BR> <BR> <BR>The
    decision to include geographic weighting can only be described as inhibiting democracy.
    What is debateable about a set of measures which make votes count for different
    weights without any conceivable advantage? <BR>In the UK, we have a 3 party system
    and we elect a parliament of local representatives, not a president, or even a
    government. It is these factors which allow opponents of democracy to cloud the
    issue of uneven weighting of votes. In the US there is no such excuse. The US
    will not be a democracy just by getting a democratic electoral system, but it
    can&#39;t be a democracy until it takes this first step. <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;Actually,
    if we eliminated the electoral college, we still wouldn&#39;t have a democracy.
    We live under a Republic. Without the electoral college, our Republic would oly
    gain the direct election of the president. <BR> <BR>This is true, but you seem
    to be holding &#39;republic&#39; and &#39;democracy&#39; as mutually exclusive.
    Am I mistaken, or is that what you&#39;re saying?'
  created: '2004-03-16 22:02:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;isn&#39;t it quite possible that relative affluence is the root of regular
    elections and a free press, as well as of not having famines? <BR> <BR>I believe
    that Sen carefully tries to show that where India had more democracy and a free
    press, even with poverty, famine didn&#39;t result. If you read the link I gave
    earlier, you will get the flavor of Sen&#39;s argument, though it is based in
    both a study of the facts and in economic theory &#40;which doesn&#39;t make it
    right of course&#41;. Famines usually happen with war and/or despotism, as in
    the recent war-related African famines or the famines in North Korea related to
    despotism. In neither case was there an lack of food, but rather of distribution
    to the people who needed it.  <BR> <BR>&#62;spewing the miasma <BR> <BR>So Hrant,
    Sen&#39;s pro-liberal democratic views are &#39;miasma&#39;? He grew up in Bengal,
    witnessed famine first hand, and went on to study it in great depth as an adult.
    For this and other work he got the Nobel Prize. So now that I suppose according
    to you he is a victim of &#39;psychological subjugation&#39; by the Western media,
    right? <BR> <BR>&#62;causing the misery form the background <BR> <BR>Hrant, I
    have no position of power to cause misery to anyone, except to you by shaking
    your from your dogmatic anti-democratic views. I actually don&#39;t want to cause
    any pain to you, but I also don&#39;t want to let your pernicious anti-democratic
    views to go on unanswered, which is why I have posted on this topic today.  <BR>
    <BR> '
  created: '2004-03-16 22:13:08'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: '&#62;&#62;&#34;no famine has ever occurred in a country with a free press
    and regular elections&#34;.  <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;isn&#39;t it quite possible that
    relative affluence is the root of regular elections and a free press, as well
    as of not having famines <BR> <BR>Hey, Marx would be proud of you both! <BR>Of
    course he would have taken 500 pages to have said the same thing, but the point
    is that from a Marxist point of view, regular elections and a famine free society
    are both achievements of capitalism. <BR>Pre-capitalist society is plagued by
    famine, and unemcumbered by elections. <BR> <BR>Personally, I&#39;m not so sure
    that its as clear cut as that. Officially there were no famines in 18th century
    England, but there definitely were very poor harvests and quite a lot of starvation.
    Of course, there were elections &#40;in a 2 party system&#41; but they were not
    democratic. <BR> <BR>On another note... <BR>Remember, just because Hrant says
    it, it doesn&#39;t mean its necessarily untrue. We have to keep in mind that elections
    are only about choosing the personnel, and the policies, not about choosing the
    system of government. &#40;I know in theory an elected party could do this, but
    in practice the weight of vested interests prevents anything even close to that&#41;.'
  created: '2004-03-16 22:20:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;The decision to include geographic weighting can only be described as
    inhibiting democracy <BR> <BR>Steve, these issues are very complicated ones which
    political scientists have debated, but I don&#39;t see the point in going into
    them here are they are comparatively marginal to the issue - Hrant is arguing
    against democracy and for some kind of benevolent &#40;he hopes&#41; despot.  <BR>
    <BR>I just wanted to separate the criticism of Bush, much of which is merited,
    from rejection of democracy - a terrible idea.   <BR> '
  created: '2004-03-16 22:30:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: I recommend you stop trying to invoke me. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-03-16 22:32:44'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: '&#62;&#62;Steve, these issues are very complicated ones which political scientists
    have debated, but I don&#39;t see the point in going into them here are they are
    comparatively marginal to the issue... <BR> <BR>William, these issues are marginal
    to Hrant&#39;s position, but more relevant to the earlier discussion about the
    virtues of the 2 party system. The volume of debate over electoral systems is
    massive &#40;and I&#39;ve read much too much of it&#41;, but geographical weighting
    in a 2-horse presedential race - can there be any defence? <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-16 22:39:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;Marx would be proud of you both <BR> <BR>No, I think Sen is anti-Marx.
    Marx was contemptuous of democratic institutions, which he regarded I believe
    as quite ineffectual, and argued that the &#39;progressive emiseration of the
    working class&#39; was inevitable. Dire proverty in the most developed countries
    was supposed to happen &#40;I don&#39;t know whether with famine or not&#41;,
    followed by the seizing of power by the proletriat. Of course it didn&#39;t happen
    that way.  '
  created: '2004-03-16 22:39:33'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: '&#62;&#62;No, I think Sen is anti-Marx <BR> <BR>That doesn&#39;t stop him
    &#40;like many others&#41; saying things which Marx has already said. <BR>One
    of the great problems with someone like Marx is that too many people &#40;even
    those who make their living as political commentators&#41; have enough of an idea
    of what Marx said to excuse them from ever having to find out what he did actually
    say. <BR>Marx didn&#39;t see democratic instituions as innefectual, he saw them
    as ably doing what they were designed for - assisting the birth and growth of
    the capitalist economic structure. <BR> <BR>Marx didn&#39;t predict dire poverty
    under capitalism - he saw it as the most capable system for delivering a massive
    increase in material wellbeing and technological development. <BR> <BR>This is
    why he predicted the failure of future revolutions in Russia &#40;in the 1870s
    and 1880s&#41; - because Russia had not experienced a developed capitalist economy,
    and so was short of material abundance - a pre-requisite of a successful socialist
    revolution. '
  created: '2004-03-16 22:50:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;geographical weighting in a 2-horse presedential race - can there be
    any defence?  <BR> <BR>Well, most people in the US see it as a pointless relic,
    including me, but whenever people try to change it, they run into exactly the
    same problems that led to the geographic weighting in the first place. The less
    populous states feel that they will be ignored both in the election, and afterwards.
    As a result this antique the &#39;electoral college&#39; has never gotten changed.
    <BR> <BR>I think the key problem in the last election was the politically influenced
    reasoning of the US Supreme Court.  '
  created: '2004-03-16 22:53:25'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: '&#62;&#62;I think the key problem in the last election was the politically
    influenced reasoning of the US Supreme Court.  <BR> <BR>Not the fact that the
    candidate with the most votes lost?'
  created: '2004-03-16 22:56:50'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: '&#62;&#62;The less populous states feel that they will be ignored both in
    the election, and afterwards <BR> <BR>What about the people who vote for the candidate
    who gets most votes, but loses the election? Don&#39;t they feel ignored?'
  created: '2004-03-16 22:59:23'
- author:
    name: Daniel Poindexter
    picture: 110054
  body: 'Tracy: <BR> <BR><i>While I am positively seething to get this man out of
    office, I have to agree. The problem is, is his &#34;right thing&#34; good for
    our country and the rest of the world? Socially, economically, environmentally?</i>
    <BR> <BR>Yes, that&#39;s really the crux of it.  It&#39;s up to every voter to
    decide whether a particular canidate&#39;s convictions are good for the country
    and the world.  That&#39;s why character is so important '
  created: '2004-03-16 23:28:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Daniel, you need to travel more. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-03-16 23:35:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;Marx didn&#39;t predict dire poverty under capitalism  <BR> <BR>Yes
    he did. After the initial increase in wealth, the &#39;inner contradictions&#39;
    of capitalism would result in concentration of wealth for owners and lower and
    lower wages for workers, until the revolution would come. This is in Capital,
    and also in &#39;Wages Price and Profit&#39;, where he says &#34;The general tendency
    of capitalistic production is not to raise but to sink the average standard of
    wages, or to push the value of labor more or less to its minimum limit.&#34; <BR>
    <BR>&#62;Marx didn&#39;t see democratic instituions as innefectual <BR> <BR>I
    meant ineffectual in the goals of helping the rights of the common man, as conceived
    of by democrats. Marx says in the Communist Manifesto that democratic institutions
    are &#34;merely a committee for managing the economic affairs of the whole bourgeoisie.&#34;
    The idea that they could protect the ordinary person from famine is alien to Marx,
    I believe.  <BR> '
  created: '2004-03-17 00:00:58'
- author:
    name: Daniel Poindexter
    picture: 110054
  body: 'William, you knew Karl Popper?  That&#39;s very cool. <BR> <BR>Steve, you
    replied while I was typing, so I should probably exapnd a bit more.  The idea
    of geographically weighted voting is really based in the functional principle
    behind both democracy and capitalism, which is factionalism.  Factionalism basically
    postulates that in any democratic system, balance can only be maintained by competing
    interests.  That&#39;s the reasoning behind antitrust laws, as well basic separation
    of powers &#40;same thing in the UK: Executive, Legislative, and Judicial branches&#41;.
    <BR> <BR>Factionalism means that you need to prevent any one interest from having
    all the power.  Now, peoples&#39; interests take a number of different forms'
  created: '2004-03-17 00:14:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; would result in concentration of wealth for owners and lower and <BR>&#62;
    lower wages for workers, until the revolution would come. <BR> <BR>Clearly the
    opposite of what&#39;s actually been happening...  :-/ <BR> <BR>Hopeless peons,
    borrowing, borrowing ideas &#40;from those already in power, no less&#41; until
    they can&#39;t tell right from wrong. Techinically I&#39;m a peon too, but it&#39;s
    great to see my independenly-evolved ideas match those of an intellectual giant
    &#40;as opposed to the psychological dwarfs trading technicalities&#41; like Marx
    so closely. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-17 00:33:33'
- author:
    name: Daniel Poindexter
    picture: 110054
  body: '....and yet it&#39;s interesting how those independently developed ideas
    totally fail to take reality into account. <BR> <BR>Seriously, if the best you
    can do in defense of your theories is call us peons, save yourself the time and
    stop now.'
  created: '2004-03-17 00:36:46'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: 'I&#39;ve been reading the many digressions from the original post: &#34;George
    Bush&#34;, and although I generally avoid discussing politics or religion, it
    is impossible not to make a comment, at least about the man in question if nothing
    else.  <BR> <BR>It is sad and incomprehensible that a man like Bush could have
    ever attained the position of leader of the land. Does this mean that he is considered
    by the electorate to be in the same intellectual company as Jefferson, Frankiln
    D. Roosevelt, Harry S. Truman? <BR> <BR>If the answer is &#34;yes&#34;, then I
    am utterly without hope. If the answer is &#34;no&#34;, then what on earth is
    he doing in the Whitehouse?  <BR> <BR>I have always heard that is is was possible
    for anyone born in the  US to become president.  Of that I now have little doubt.  <BR>
    <BR>It may seem boorish that a Canadian has the cheek to make an unkind comment
    on the leader of our nearest and long-time friend, the USA. My comment is a sincere
    one, spurred on by the fact that Bush&#39;s preciptous actions against Iraq have
    put Canada under threat of terrorist attack, if the news services are to be believed.
    <BR> <BR>Jim Rimmer'
  created: '2004-03-17 00:45:39'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: Thomas, <BR> <BR><i>It&#39;s all very well to blame the loans, but would the
    Third World have really been better off without that money? What would have been
    the result of no loans?</i> <BR> <BR>Yes, they would have been better off without
    the loans. They would be better to simply default on the loans. <BR> <BR>You want
    to know why?
  created: '2004-03-17 05:34:20'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: <a href="http://edition.cnn.com/2004/ALLPOLITICS/03/16/bush.brain.ap/index.html"
    target="_blank">http://edition.cnn.com/2004/ALLPOLITICS/03/16/bush.brain.ap/index.html</a>
    <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-03-17 07:03:02'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: William, <BR> <BR>&#62;Marx didn&#39;t predict dire poverty under capitalism  <BR>
    <BR><i>Yes he did. After the initial increase in wealth, the &#39;inner contradictions&#39;
    of capitalism would result in concentration of wealth for owners and lower and
    lower wages for workers, until the revolution would come. This is in Capital,
    and also in &#39;Wages Price and Profit&#39;, where he says &#34;The general tendency
    of capitalistic production is not to raise but to sink the average standard of
    wages, or to push the value of labor more or less to its minimum limit.&#34;</i>
    <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-03-17 08:57:54'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: 'William, <BR> <BR>Marx&#39;s prediction of a decline in the average standard
    of wages doesn&#39;t include the prediction of &#39;dire poverty in the most advanced
    countries&#39;. <BR>For one thing, as capitalism is becoming truly global, the
    average standard of wages would need to take account of those many millions of
    workers who do not live in capitalist societies themselves &#40;and receive none
    of the freedoms and benefits which Marx says exist for workers under capitalism&#41;,
    but whose labour power is employed by capitalists, largely contributing to the
    material wellbeing of workers in the advanced capitalist economies. <BR>Also,
    the standard of wages is relative to the overall value of production. <BR> <BR>The
    point I was trying to make is this: For Marx, famine &#40;on the whole&#41; is
    the product of a pre-capitalist economic structure. Agrarian revolution, leading
    to a massive increase in agricultural productivity and the stabilisation of agricultural
    output is a necessary pre-condition of the development of capitalism. <BR>Once
    capitalism begins to take hold, technological developments lead to material abundance,
    in the most advanced countries at least.  <BR> <BR>==========================
    <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;lower and lower wages for workers, until the revolution would
    come <BR> <BR>Historical materialism doesn&#39;t depend on the dire poverty of
    workers to push them into revolutionary action. For Marx, the revolution which
    removes capitalism doesn&#39;t have to mean &#39;manning the barricades&#39; or
    storming the Winter Palace. The &#34;era of social revolution&#34; is essentially
    characterised by the displacement of one dominant production relation by another.   It
    is possible that this revolution could consist entirely of processes of &#39;adaptive
    metamorphosis&#39; or revolution from above.  Marx&#39;s description of the emergence
    of capitalism in England includes elements of both of these processes. He saw
    the bourgeois revolution in England as involving a variety of forms of revolutionary
    action, and a broad range of &#39;revolutionaries&#39;, including feudal landowners.
    <BR> <BR>========================== <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62; Marx says in the Communist
    Manifesto that democratic institutions are &#34;merely a committee for managing
    the economic affairs of the whole bourgeoisie.&#34; The idea that they could protect
    the ordinary person from famine is alien to Marx, I believe.  <BR> <BR>Actually,
    it is the &#39;executive of the modern state&#39; which he sees in that way. &#40;Or,
    in Terrell Carver&#39;s 1998 translation, &#39;the power of the modern state&#39;&#41;.
    This is a judgement on the non-democratic states of mid-19th century Europe, rather
    than upon the concept of democratic institutions. Marx sees the then existing
    states, and even the further development of representative democracy, as only
    possible under capitalist &#40;and ultimately post-capitalist&#41; economic forms,
    and therefore historically incompatible with famine. <BR> <BR>I suppose the summary
    of all that is this: <BR>Democracy can only come into being with capitalism, though
    it doesn&#39;t have to go when capitalism does. <BR>The technological advances
    that enable the emergence of capitalism, and those much more spectacular advances
    which it facilitates, render famine, largely, a thing of the past. <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-17 10:00:41'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: Pavel <BR> <BR><i>&#62; And for our friend that is frightened by the great
    Cuban liberator, Fidel Castro. Worse &#62;things have happened in Cuba by Americans
    torturing innocent youths. Human rights &#62;dictatorship vs human rights democracy.  <BR>
    <BR>Gerald, maybe you should try to explain the difference to those incarcerated
    &#40;77 persons in last month&#41; for the decades &#40;10-28 yrs&#41; for a typewriter
    possession. Fidel Castro is plain dictator like Hitler, Stalin or Lenin. There
    is no excuse for the silly words you have written.</i> <BR> <BR>Owning typewriters
    is a moral sin that will be addressed, I trust, in the after world. <BR> <BR>There
    are some things that are morally demonic, typewriters are one of them. Fidel Castro
    is obviously greatly enlightened and I appreciate this nugget of information you
    have given me. Those mono unit typewriter faces ruined my mommies vision hence
    the bad taste decorating in the family home. <BR> <BR>Turquoise! What a disgrace!
    You better watch out this could happen to you. Oh, and liver shaped coffee tables,
    these visual travesties were unleashed all throughout the America&#39;s by that
    hideous contraption &#34;the typewriter&#34;,  <BR> <BR>Castro rightly calls them
    the &#34;devils horns&#34;, at least that is what Captain Juan Valdez told me
    aboard this very ship. <a href="http://lanstontype.com/FinnishCargoShip.html"
    target="_blank">http://lanstontype.com/FinnishCargoShip.html</a> <BR>He said,
    and I pass this wisdom on to all. &#34;Wake up and smell the coffee!&#34; <BR>
    <BR>If my mother drank coffee instead of that dastardly tea she may have had the
    brains to get rid of that ungodly home wrecking invention. <BR> <BR>I was so disgraced
    I ran away from home when I was thirteen and never got an education. Would you
    want that to happen to your children? That they should wind up like me? Go ahead,
    say it, you don&#39;t do you. <BR> <BR>Let me make it easier for you. <BR> <BR><a
    href="http://lanstontype.com/GiampaGoesToSea.html" target="_blank">http://lanstontype.com/GiampaGoesToSea.html</a>
    <BR> <BR>Yes, Castro believes in the family unit. He has his priorities correct.
    Make cigars not typewriters. <BR> <BR>And I say, &#34;good for him&#34;. <BR>
    <BR>You know some people think I look like Castro. <BR><a href="http://lanstontype.com/GiampaHat.html"
    target="_blank">http://lanstontype.com/GiampaHat.html</a> <BR> <BR>The other contraption
    that should be banished is bikes. Those snarky little double cheeked bums wagging
    insult after insult in your eyeballs as they peddle, pump. peddle, pump, peddle,
    pump down the street &#34;burning up gallon after gallon of gasoline as it there
    were no tomorrow.&#34; <BR> <BR>I say drive the suckers over. Don&#39;t they have
    any respect for the environment. All those danged gas guzzling bikes. What a bunch
    of inconsiderate morons. <BR> <BR>Just think about? Those slimy sweaty cabbage
    patch misfits peddling away thinking they are doing &#34;just the right thing&#34;.
    Meanwhile every car has to slow down in order to pass them. Slow down, then the
    poor motorist has to &#34;step on the gas&#34;. You got it folks, &#34;lots and
    lots and lots of gas. Every car must do the same thing. One car after another.
    <BR> <BR>Those granola eaters are responsible for the war in Iraq. Don&#39;t get  me
    started. <BR> <BR>Gallon upon gallon spewing to the hemispheres. <BR> <BR>Then
    these Nimrods dare lecture me about how eco friendly they are. I would like them
    to
  created: '2004-03-17 10:33:15'
- author:
    name: dan
    picture: 109994
  body: Gerald, I don&#39;t appreciate your humor when it comes to bikes. I ride about
    12,000 miles a year and I have more than one road raging motorest threaten me
    or worse try to run me over, why, because I exist. Cell phones have only made
    it worse I was almost run over two years ago by a cell phone talking motorist
    who was paying no attention to what she was doing &#40;driving the car&#41;, bikes
    are not toys, the average racing bike now costs well over $2000 american and a
    really good one is in the $5000 range. Threatening life is not humor, at least
    not to me.
  created: '2004-03-17 11:37:59'
- author:
    name: azeli
    picture: 109999
  body: '&#62; Just what I hate, typewriters, bikes and nimrods. <BR> <BR>Okay Gerald,
    you got me! Because all typewriter owners are imprisoned already I am gonna liquidate
    all bikers I meet today in yours favour. Hope it helps. <BR> <BR>Pavel'
  created: '2004-03-17 11:42:16'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: Pavel, <BR> <BR>That calls for a Cuban cigar! <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-03-17 11:54:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Steve, I think you are reading apologists who want to cover up what Marx
    and Engles actually said - for they were quite wrong in their historical prophesies.   <BR>
    <BR>The &#39;executive of the state&#39; includes democratic institutions in Marxism.
    Here is Engels: &#34;In reality the state is nothing more than a machine for the
    oppression of one class by another and this holds for a democratic republic no
    less than for a monarchy.&#34; &#40;Introduction to &#39;The Civil War In France&#39;&#41;
    <BR> <BR>I can tell you that in England in the late &#39;60s, when I was there
    at the LSE, and Marxism was riding high in certain circles, the Marxists were
    constantly ridiculing the emptiness of democratic institutions as nothing but
    the tool of the boureoisie for oppression of the working class.  <BR> <BR>And
    the collapse of capitalism is supposed to come from increasingly severe depressions
    which are cataclysmic. Here is Marx on these economic crises &#40;from the Manifesto&#41;:
    &#34;It appears as if a famine, a universal war of devastation had cut off the
    supply of every means of subsistence; industry and commerce seem to be destroyed...&#34;
    <BR> <BR>The idea that elections could protect against famine is, I think, totally
    alien to Marx&#39;s thinking. As to the internationalization of the work force,
    as I said Lenin tried to give this as an explanation for the failure of Marx&#39;s
    predictions of the collapse of capitalism. The problem is that the wages in poor
    countries like China, where production is done for rich countries, are rising,
    not falling, in spite of a huge reservoir of poor rural people wanting industrial
    work.  <BR> <BR>In spite of brilliant insights, Marx&#39;s analysis is wrong in
    so many ways that it is just antiquated. People like Amartya Sen are going to
    give you an incredibly more advanced understanding of the current economic system
    than did the Marx and Engels of over a hundred years ago.  <BR> <BR>By the way,
    the edition of &#39;Capital&#39; I have, published in Moscow in 1968, is set in
    10 point Bodoni with no leading - practically unreadable. Now that&#39;s backward
    for you!    '
  created: '2004-03-17 14:01:43'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: '&#62;&#62;Steve, I think you are reading apologists who want to cover up
    what Marx and Engles actually said  <BR> <BR>William, I think you&#39;re being
    patronising. <BR>Nothing I have said here has been taken from any Marxist&#39;s
    work &#40;except Marx himself - or Marx and Engels&#41; <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;for
    they were quite wrong in their historical prophesies <BR> <BR>Well, I think <i>predictions</i>
    would be the word, rather than <i>prophesies</i>. <BR>OK, I&#39;m not suggesting
    everything Marx said was correct, or that everything he predicted has happened,
    but Marx and Engels were not as wrong as you clearly think they were, and their
    analytical framework provides a much more perceptive vision of the modern world
    than anything I&#39;ve seen people like Sen or Popper come up with. <BR> <BR>
    <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;The &#39;executive of the state&#39; includes democratic institutions
    in Marxism. Here is Engels: &#34;In reality the state is nothing more than a machine
    for the oppression of one class by another and this holds for a democratic republic
    no less than for a monarchy.&#34; &#40;Introduction to &#39;The Civil War In France&#39;&#41;  <BR>
    <BR>William, you don&#39;t seem to be able to appreciate context at all. From
    Marx and Engels perspective democracy is something to be criticised, not because
    its wrong or evil, but because it doesn&#39;t go far enough. Too often, their
    contemporaries saw democracy as the goal, whereas Marx and Engels were arguing
    that its the economic form which has to be changed. Do you think that they envisaged
    the post-capitalist state as a tool of class oppression?  <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;I
    can tell you that in England in the late &#39;60s, when I was there at the LSE,
    and Marxism was riding high in certain circles, the Marxists were constantly ridiculing
    the emptiness of democratic institutions as nothing but the tool of the boureoisie
    for oppression of the working class.  <BR> <BR>Well, that&#39;s Marxists for you.
    Is that anything to do with me? <BR>&#40;Oh, by the way, they may have assumed
    that they didn&#39;t have to spell it out to you that they were referring to democratic
    institutions UNDER CAPITALISM. In such circumstances the state does indeed have
    the role of assisting the bourgeoisie in exploiting the working class. On the
    other hand they may not have understood the distinction themselves&#41;. <BR>
    <BR>&#62;&#62;And the collapse of capitalism is supposed to come from increasingly
    severe depressions which are cataclysmic. Here is Marx on these economic crises
    &#40;from the Manifesto&#41;: &#34;It appears as if a famine, a universal war
    of devastation had cut off the supply of every means of subsistence; industry
    and commerce seem to be destroyed...&#34;  <BR> <BR>Oohhh, very cataclismic, but..errr...you
    forgot to quote the rest of the paragraph. The bit where Marx notes that these
    crises aren&#39;t so cataclismic that the bourgeoisie can&#39;t find a way around
    them - by finding new markets to exploit, and further exploiting the existing
    ones. So all the drama and devastation and destruction is really a bit of dramatic
    licence in what was, after all, a call to action, rather than the rigourous analytical
    work that was more typical of Marx. Marx and Engels did admit later in life that
    they had made a mistake in viewing the crisis of 1848 as the death-agony of capitalism.
    Quite soon afterwards the awful truth dawned on them that 1848 had merely been
    part of the birth-pangs. <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;The idea that elections
    could protect against famine is, I think, totally alien to Marx&#39;s thinking.
    <BR> <BR>And mine too. I think I&#39;ve already said this in a few different ways,
    but maybe another way will allow it to sink in &#40;if I simplify it enough&#41;,
    here goes... <BR> <BR>Elections and stable agricultural output are both absent
    in the pre-capitalist epoch.  <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;As to the internationalization
    of the work force, as I said Lenin tried to give this as an explanation for the
    failure of Marx&#39;s predictions of the collapse of capitalism. The problem is
    that the wages in poor countries like China, where production is done for rich
    countries, are rising, not falling, in spite of a huge reservoir of poor rural
    people wanting industrial work.  <BR> <BR>OK, but are the wages of those in, say,
    the shoe industry, in say, China &#40;a poor example, if I may say so, but we
    can run with it&#41;, higher than those of the workers in, say, the shoe industry,
    in say, Northamptonshire, in say, the 1970s? That is to say, taking the shoe industry
    as an example, are the wages of those on the production line rising, or falling?
    <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;By the way, the edition of &#39;Capital&#39; I have, published
    in Moscow in 1968, is set in 10 point Bodoni with no leading - practically unreadable.
    Now that&#39;s backward for you! <BR> <BR>You seem to say this with the kind of
    misplaced triumphalism that characterises the work of the thick witted Fukuyama.
    This makes me think &#40;and I hope I&#39;m wrong&#41; that you think that the
    industrial backwardness of the Soviet Union in 1968 supports your argument, and
    mitigates against mine.'
  created: '2004-03-17 19:59:45'
- author:
    name: Daniel Poindexter
    picture: 110054
  body: Hrant, <BR> <BR>I sure do need to travel more, but that&#39;s not really good
    grounds to dismiss my statements.  I&#39;ve lived in several different countries
    and spent time dozens of them.  What all this amounts to is a simple appeal to
    belief.  Just because a lot of people believe something does not necessarily make
    it true.
  created: '2004-03-17 20:30:23'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: Thomas, <BR> <BR><i>It&#39;s all very well to blame the loans, but would the
    Third World have really been better off without that money? What would have been
    the result of no loans?</i>  <BR> <BR>The answer is clearly yes. The third world
    would be much better off without those loans. Better to simply default.  <BR>
    <BR><a href="http://sept.globalizethis.org/article.php?list=type&amp;type=7" target="_blank">http://sept.globalizethis.org/article.php?list=type&amp;type=7</a>
  created: '2004-03-17 20:31:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 10 pt Bodoni with no leading in 1968? <BR>That&#39;s Madison Ave. &#40;eg
    Carl Ally for Hertz.&#41; <BR>
  created: '2004-03-17 20:32:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;their analytical framework provides a much more perceptive vision of
    the modern world  <BR> <BR>I&#39;m not being patronizing; I just think you are
    wrong.  <BR> <BR>The twentieth century was one massive testing and refutation
    of Marx&#39;s views, as extreme socialist &#40;Communist&#41; states collapsed
    or changed, and mild socialist states, like the European ones, only kept the welfare
    state, which had been introduced by Bismark, not Marx. The extreme socialist states
    were huge economic and moral failures. Socialist agriculture, in particular, proved
    to be an oxymoron, like &#39;round square&#39;. It never worked, anywhere, anytime.
    <BR> <BR>Now I know that Marx had his loony anarchist vision - unrelated to his
    critique of capitalism - of &#39;whithering away&#39; of the state, but I think
    his ideas need to be judged by the reality of those who have earnestly tried to
    put them into practice.  <BR> <BR>To maintain that Marx is so much more perceptive
    than liberals like Popper or Sen is, in light of repeated failures of socialism,
    and repeated successes of liberal states with mixed economies &#40;capitalism,
    welfare state&#41; to me flies in the face of experience. There are plenty of
    problems with modern Captitalism and democratic states, but to look to Marx for
    solutions is, in my opinion, bizarre.   <BR> <BR>&#62;That is to say, taking the
    shoe industry as an example, are the wages of those on the production line rising,
    or falling? <BR> <BR>So you want to maintain Marx&#39;s theory of steadily falling
    wages for workers, in spite of a hundred and fifty years of refutation? The comparison
    is not with English shoe workers today, because English workers are in different
    vocations, but they are working. I believe that the wages of English workers are
    higher in real terms now than in 1970.   <BR> <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-17 20:45:39'
- author:
    name: dan
    picture: 109994
  body: William, If I remember correctly Ronald Regan &#40;who I didn&#39;t vote for&#41;
    had a pissing match with the USSR on who could spend more money on arms, knowing
    it would bankrupt them and it did. If you look carefully at Russia today its new
    Tsar &#40;oops president&#41; Putin uses all the terms of democracy and basicly
    runs a closed political system. Every country has gotten the idea of a spin doctor
    and will make even the most horrible government sound like a free institution.
    I don&#39;t judge a country on its retoric, but on its actions. President Bush
    in his want to erraticate world wide terrorism has invaded two countries and has
    no exit policy, and every day another American or ally dies for lack of an exit
    strategy.
  created: '2004-03-17 21:25:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; democracy is something to be criticised, not because <BR>&#62; its
    wrong or evil, but because it doesn&#39;t go far enough. <BR> <BR>Exactly. <BR>
    <BR>&#62; Just because a lot of people believe something does not necessarily
    make it true. <BR> <BR>Exactly. <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>And long live Tsar Putin.
    &#40;Hey, that sounds like &#34;Rasputin&#34;.&#41; <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-17 21:54:58'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: '&#62;&#62;I&#39;m not being patronizing; I just think you are wrong <BR>
    <BR>Please by all means, think I&#39;m wrong, its up to you. <BR>However, the
    statement of yours which was patronising was &#39;I think you are reading apologists
    who want to cover up what Marx and Engles actually said&#39;. <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve
    read enough Marx first hand to find that statement patronising. From the look
    of the rest of your post, you haven&#39;t read nearly as much. <BR> <BR>You say
    that &#39;The extreme socialist states were huge economic and moral failures&#39;
    and present this as a refutation of Marx. <BR> <BR>Oh dear, now I feel like I
    need to bemoan the commentators you&#39;ve been reading. <BR>&#40;I&#39;ll try
    to be brief as everyone else must be bored by now&#41; <BR>For Marx, there were
    certain pre-conditions which had to be fulfilled before any given economic form
    could develop. Capitalism, for example, cannot arise while the mass of the population
    are tied to the land, either by laws of settlement or by ownership rights. A mass
    of landless labourers is a pre-requisite for capitalist development. <BR>Socialism,
    or communism, if you like, also has certain pre-requisites. One of these is that  capitalism
    has developed and created massive productive capabilities and material abundance.  <BR>In
    The German Ideology &#40;1845-47&#41; Marx and Engels predicted failure for attempts
    to establish socialism before this material requirement had been met:  '
  created: '2004-03-17 21:59:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '&#62;one massive testing and refutation of Marx&#39;s views <BR> <BR>William,
    communist states were isolated and crushed by the West. That&#39;s not a refutation
    of Marx&#39;s views. '
  created: '2004-03-17 22:03:02'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: I just re-read that post. <BR> <BR>Oh Sh1t, if that&#39;s my attempt to be
    brief, I&#39;d better go and drink more beer.
  created: '2004-03-17 22:03:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Steve, I&#39;m impressed by your grasp of this. <BR> <BR>Let me ask you a
    hypothetical version of a very real question you&#39;ve asked me: <BR>If one wanted
    to replace a democracy with a benign monarchy, what is a practical scheme? Would
    it make sense to allow a really really long campaign and then have the people
    choose a monarch, who subsequently would choose a successor, maybe somebody not
    related by family? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-17 22:07:03'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: Hrant, <BR>I know you&#39;re being hypothetical here, but I can&#39;t imagine
    wanting to replace a democracy with a monarchy. Its a step backwards. And part
    of the problem is that I can&#39;t imagine a practical scheme for giving someone
    absolute power. <BR>Aside from all the usual problems, what if they go insane?
    Can they still rule, or does someone have the power to remove them? Who decides
    if they are insane? What if they turn out to be really unpopular after a few years,
    or become obsessed with a particular idea or person, or experience a life changing
    event and develop a completely different character, or just slowly transform from
    a vibrant young go-getting type into a grumpy old man? <BR>And what about the
    succession? What if they sell the succession to the highest bidder, or give it
    to the highest briber, or just choose the girl with the nicest nose? What if they
    leave it to a cats home? <BR> <BR>Sorry to sound negative hhp, but I can&#39;t
    make my head see monarchies as anything other than a really silly, and dangerous,
    way to govern a country. <BR> <BR>&#40;Most modern European monarchies are actually
    harmless enough, but they&#39;re still a waste of money and that hereditary thing
    really sticks in my throat&#41;.
  created: '2004-03-17 22:24:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Steve, this isn&#39;t at all the right place to put you on the spot about
    the merits of democracy versus monarchy, but I would like to ask you this: If
    you&#39;re not interested in the hypothetical angle &#40;it&#39;s not like any
    of us have any real power anyway&#41;, then why did you once ask me to elaborate
    on this myself? Should I unflag that post of yours? Or were your questions just
    now not [all] rhetorical after all? If not, then I guess the main answer is: &#34;shite
    happens&#34;. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-17 22:46:55'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: '&#62;&#62;If you&#39;re not interested in the hypothetical angle &#40;it&#39;s
    not like any of us have any real power anyway&#41;, then why did you once ask
    me to elaborate on this myself?  <BR> <BR>Its not that I object to the hypothetical
    angle. <BR>But its you that recommends a monarchy, so its up to you to answer
    potential problems with that solution, hypothetical or otherwise. &#40;Of course,
    there&#39;s no obligation to address such questions, but if you suggest a solution
    without addressing people&#39;s concerns, then its hard for people to take your
    suggestion seriously&#41;. <BR>To be honest, I can&#39;t get into the whole monarchy
    thing - for the reasons given above, and for the want of answers to the questions
    I put to you before, among other things - but if you can provide satisfactory
    answers to my doubts, maybe I&#39;ll be persuaded. <BR>Maybe its also because
    I&#39;m intrigued. Usually, when I meet a monarchist its an old lady with a blue
    rinse who thinks the queen does ever so well to put up with what she has to put
    up with &#40;&#34;and you never hear her complain&#34;&#41;. Asking for a practical
    or ideological justification of the monarchy from those people is like asking
    monkeys to argue the case for bananas. I&#39;m interested in what a travelled
    &amp; cosmopolitan person of my generation sees in the idea. &#40;I hope I&#39;m
    not making you out to be older than you are&#41;. <BR>I can&#39;t see myself being
    persuaded, but without some answers, I&#39;ll never know!'
  created: '2004-03-17 23:19:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;William, communist states were isolated and crushed by the West. That&#39;s
    not a refutation of Marx&#39;s views.  <BR> <BR>Well, they were incredibly stagnant
    and unproductive economically, while the West was going from strength to strength.
    They were also horribly oppressive and corrupt. And they really didn&#39;t have
    any excuse. The old Soviet empire had plenty of raw materials, population, land
    and education. The West had a lot to do with limiting the spread of their power,
    but they fell of their own internal stagnation, decay, and in lack of belief in
    their own system. In my opinion, Ronald Reagan had very little to do with it,
    in spite of what US right wingers like to claim. <BR> <BR> <BR>Steve, the reason
    I thought you must be reading someone else&#39;s version of Marx is a.&#41; you
    didn&#39;t quote Marx and b.&#41; you seemed to claim stuff that is contrary to
    what I heard Marxists say for years, and that I read myself.  <BR> <BR>For example,
    you said &#34;This [view of government as purely a tool of the bourgeoisie] is
    a judgment on the non-democratic states of mid-19th century Europe, rather than
    upon the concept of democratic institutions.&#34; But Engels, as I quoted above,
    flatly contradicts your statement. <BR>  <BR>Furthermore, Marx&#39;s claim I quoted
    is that &#34;The general tendency of capitalistic production is not to raise but
    to sink the average standard of wages, or to push the value of labor more or less
    to its minimum limit.&#34; You can compare shoe workers in England and China,
    but that is not the test of Marx&#39;s claim. The relevant comparison is of the
    change in average wages in a country, or in the world at large, and in both cases
    the average standard has raised, not lowered, thus contradicting Marx.   <BR>
    <BR>As to the relevance of the twentieth century Communism and Socialism to Marx,
    it is necessary to separate two things. First is Marx&#39;s critique of capitalism
    and second is his ideas about the socialist state. His critique is insightful
    but fundamentally flawed. His views of the socialist state are practically non-existent,
    as he basically relied on his loony idea that once the state owned the means of
    production, it would wither away. Lenin had to develop a theory of a socialist
    state, in which the Communist party was somehow able to speak for the proletariat.
    This was rubbish, but it was an excuse to rule and oppress others. And of course
    the state did anything but wither away. <BR> <BR>In moderate socialist experiments
    of Western Europe, nationalized industries just didn&#39;t work very well. The
    experience of socialist experiments of the 20th century give us a lot of basis
    to judge Marx&#39;s dreams by, and they look pretty miserable.  <BR> <BR>Frankly,
    Marxism is not high on my list of stuff to engage again intellectually, as it
    is in my opinion one of the deadest philosophies out there. Therefore I will not
    add further to the case I have made up to now concerning Marxism. Popper made
    a much more powerful case in &#39;The Open Society and Its Enemies&#39;, if anyone
    is interested.        <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-18 03:41:57'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: <i>Frankly, Marxism is not high on my list of stuff to engage again intellectually,
    as it is in my opinion one of the deadest philosophies out there.</i> <BR> <BR>I
    find it ironic anyone would consider  the problems of intenstinal consumption
    a philosophy. Wouldn&#39;t that be a <i>medical problem?</i> <BR> <BR>Capitalists,
    and slugs are all one and the same, they love to consume, and both leave tracks.
    <BR> <BR>Plumbers  know what should run downhill. Trouble with captitalists is
    it runs uphill. You know &#34;you&#34; need a plumber, something is backed up.
    It smells bad.  <BR> <BR>You can always do it in the &#34;Bush&#34; at election
    time. <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-03-18 09:16:44'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: Look, how do you figure the world average income is up. If so, do your really
    have any reason to believe it has anything to do with capitalism vs communism?
    <BR> <BR>What is all of this based on? I can&#39;t seem to find any source that
    is worthy of repeating. <BR> <BR>Some how, the poor, look, just poor. And the
    rich look like they don&#39;t deserve to be. Well, except obese.
  created: '2004-03-18 11:01:53'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: William, <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t think there&#39;s much point in taking this
    any further. You are still blaming the Soviet Union on Marx despite the fact that
    he specifically said that such a revolution would fail to bring about socialism,
    and would result in the restoration of &#39;all the old filthy business&#39;.
    Have a look out east. <BR> <BR>What Lenin did or said is not relevant to a discussion
    of Marx. Same goes for Stalin, Gorby and anyone at the LSE in the 1960s. <BR>I&#39;m
    not saying that no-one has anything relevant to say about Marx, but pointing out
    errors in the arguments of those who claim to be Marxists is not relevant to a
    discussion of Marx&#39;s ideas.  <BR>Your failure to be able to look past this
    is what handicaps your ability to understand the discussion.
  created: '2004-03-18 12:25:47'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: OK Steve, so the Soviet Union doesn&#39;t count. How about the late great
    German &#34;Democratic Republic?&#34; Why did they all choose to abandon Communism?
    Or if it wasn&#39;t communism, what was it? <BR> <BR>I think these mid-1800s theories
    had more relevance in the economic conditions of the time. Industrial labor has
    since given way to more and more technology, and more and more people in both
    the First and Third World are engaged in less physical labor and more symbolic
    analysis. Would you disagree? <BR> <BR>Not a day goes by when I don&#39;t hear
    some arse-clown complaining about losing his $80K I.T. job to someone who can
    read and write perfect English in India. Actually having worked under such arse-clowns
    myself, I don&#39;t lose too much sleep over the recent &#34;dot com bust&#34;
    which more than anything else was a culling of overpaid middle management in exchange
    for more productive bottom-level workers with enough of their own initiative to
    do their jobs well without middle managers.
  created: '2004-03-18 14:23:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Steve, for a nearly a century all who professed to be devoted followers of
    Marx defended the Communist states or the nationalized industries of democratic
    states as leading the world to a better day in conformity to Marx&#39;s analysis
    and ideas.  <BR> <BR>Now you airily wave away all those millions as not worth
    even addressing. At the same time you don&#39;t either address the contradictions
    of Marx with reality, which I have pointed out, nor your mistaken interpretations
    of Marx and Engels, which are flatly contradicted by my quotations from them.  <BR>
    <BR>Nor do you acknowledge that Marx had little to say about how a socialist state
    might work. The only experience we have of socialism is of the communist and socialist
    countries of the twentieth century. Anyone actually interested in improving society
    will try to learn by the  failures in these societies, as well as by the failures
    of capitalist societies. To wave the socialist failures aside as irrelevant and
    to simply re-assert Marx is to take Marx on faith, as a dogmatic religion. This
    had some excuse in those states where Marxism was the state religion and you could
    be imprisoned or shot for criticising Marxism. Today such a devotional attitude
    to Marx is just ridiculous. '
  created: '2004-03-18 15:59:48'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: William <BR> <BR>&#34;The only experience we have of socialism is of the communist
    and <b>socialist countries</b> of the twentieth century. Anyone actually interested
    in improving society will try to <b>learn by the failures in these societies,</b>
    as well as by the failures of capitalist societies.&#34; <BR> <BR>Is there reason
    not to learn from success?  <BR> <BR>&#34;Finland is socialist to the extreme.&#34;
    Are they doing well? YOU BET THEY ARE!
  created: '2004-03-18 16:15:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;Is there reason not to learn from success?  <BR> <BR>Absolutely, we
    should learn from the successes also, both of capitalist and socialist efforts.
    So far as I can see the great success of socialist reforms has been in the creation
    of the welfare state. That is, to mitigate the evils of capitalism by unemployment
    and old age insurance, child welfare, state subsidy of health care, etc. This
    was I think inspired by socialist thinkers, though was in fact first instituted
    by Bismark, who was anti-socialist. The key innovative idea of Marx, that government
    ownership of the means of production was the key to a better world, seems to have
    flopped completely. I don&#39;t know about Finland, but I believe that even Sweden
    has abandoned some of its nationalized industries.  <BR> <BR>The great success
    of capitalism has been economic growth and prosperity to an extent unprecedented
    in world history, and now spreading - with tragic unevenness - throughout the
    world.  <BR> <BR>The states with liberal democracies and mixed economies &#40;large
    govt sector, capitalism and welfare state&#41; have also been less oppressive
    and unjust than most of societies in the past, and certainly less cruel and oppressive
    than either Communist or most 3rd world governments.   '
  created: '2004-03-18 16:39:05'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: William,  <BR> <BR>Is debt success? Or postponed pain. <BR> <BR><i><a href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/business/3377795.stm"
    target="_blank">http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/business/3377795.stm</a></i>
  created: '2004-03-18 16:44:38'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: Or is this success? <BR> <BR><a href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/low/business/2332053.stm"
    target="_blank">http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/low/business/2332053.stm</a> <BR> <BR>Or
    this. <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.imf.org/external/np/apd/seminars/2003/newdelhi/lardy.pdf"
    target="_blank">http://www.imf.org/external/np/apd/seminars/2003/newdelhi/lardy.pdf</a>
    <BR> <BR>By the way isn&#39;t India a democracy? <BR> <BR>China is growing quicker
    than the Americans or the Japanese, or the Europeans. My Chinese friend reports
    they are still communist. What&#39;s up with that? <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-03-18 17:00:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62;  they fell of their own internal stagnation <BR> <BR>No, they fell
    to Western greed. They were corrupt to begin with, and they realized there was
    more cash to be milked in Capitalism. But now the Russian oligarchs are being
    taught a good lesson. It makes me very happy to see them going to jail, and apparently
    the Russian people feel the same way. It would be so nice to see Cheney in an
    orange jumpsuit. <BR> <BR>Wealth is not being spread unevenly. More misery is
    being created by increased affluence in the West. Globalization is simply a means
    the make the rich richer, and the earth &#40;which is much more than the humans
    who live on it&#41; poorer. Material wealth doesn&#39;t fall from the sky. <BR>
    <BR>-- <BR> <BR>Steve, I&#39;ve decided to address your challenge after all. Some
    time today. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-18 17:51:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'OK Steve, here it goes. <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>First things first: Society
    = Injustice. Anarchy is the only Fair system - let Nature decide. But humans are
    social animals &#40;in fact it seems that animals are social animals too&#41;.
    So you could say we <i>have</i> to have something. <BR> <BR>We can debate the
    relative merits of various systems &#40;for example that Communism sucks but it&#39;s
    still much better than Capitalism&#41;, but let&#39;s start by first getting rid
    of the illusion that Democracy is good. <BR> <BR>There are two key things that
    need to be admitted: <BR>1&#41; The current system is not working. It is causing
    increasing misery, and it&#39;s not sustainable anyway. <BR>2&#41; Most people
    are not trained to decide matters of state. They&#39;re not even trained to choose
    somebody who can handle matters of state. People are trained to cook, clean, program,
    etc. And this is necessary for society to function and thrive efficiently. There
    is very much such a thing as freedom &#42;from&#42; choice. People just want things
    they can&#39;t handle to work in the background, so they can get along with their
    lives. <BR> <BR>I thereby state that democracy is not working, and can never really
    work. So why does it exist, and spread? Because it&#39;s much easier to control
    people when you give them the illusion of power &#40;as well as things like free
    speech&#41;. Give them bread and the circus &#40;as well as at least two parties
    to choose from, controlled media to tell them everything is going fine, forced
    public education to start the brainwashing as early as possible and free the moms
    to slave away&#41;, and there you have it. <BR> <BR>What needs to happen? <BR>First,
    people need to realize: the system isn&#39;t working; and they&#39;re not qualified
    to fix it. Then, they have to stop voting. There&#39;s no other way to stop the
    juggernaut. Eventually &#40;whether elections are cancelled, or a president is
    chosen by 200 people and then riots break out&#41; there will be a state of emergency.
    Then people will start thinking: how do we get a least-unfair system, that&#39;s
    efficient, and not corrupt? There really is only one answer: one person with authority,
    intelligence and a good heart. No single person can be perfect, but more than
    one cook causes grief. <BR> <BR>There will be a group of people called the Presentation
    Committee, with members culled from the current political elite, as well as people
    who come out of the grassroots movement. Yes, many of them will be corrupt. But
    they will start nominating monarchs &#40;they&#39;re not exluded&#41;, and presenting
    the pros and cons of the nominee, and spending money on campaigns will be disallowed.
    Media will provide free airtime to any nominee, funded by taxpayer money &#40;you
    might have to stop imperialism for a while to pay for this&#41;. This will last
    four years. During those four years either the former president or the one who
    got elected with 200 votes will serve. At the end of those four years, the constitution
    will be abolished. The people will vote for a monarch. There will be one rule
    only: the monarch cannot designate a blood relation as a successor. The monarch
    is of course free to implement a parliament, get advisors, or anything he/she
    wants. <BR> <BR>Getting rid of a bad monarch: you do it the old-fashioned way.
    Physically depose him. I maintain that this is will cause less bloodshed than
    is being spilled now in the name of democracy. It will be swift and overt, unlike
    the illusionary, Gameboy killing of entire peoples and cultures that&#39;s going
    on now. <BR> <BR>Terrorism will die down, because there is no vote to influence.
    I told you guys democracy encourages terrorism, you didn&#39;t believe me, now
    look what happened. <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>This is a rough framework. There are
    certainly tweaks to it that would avoid both the idiocy of democracy and the danger
    of despotism. But most of all, letting the people choose a monarch after long,
    relatively impartial debate is the best hope. A cabal of capitalists isn&#39;t
    working, and never could. <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>If this is not enough to convince
    you, then let me ask you a question in turn: <BR> <BR>When you have a system that
    can&#39;t be changed &#40;because it owns the airwaves hence the minds of the
    voters&#41;, with a different puppet changing every 4/8 years, and it&#39;s a
    system destroying the world, how the hell do you get rid of it? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-18 23:19:04'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: "&#62;&#62;Steve, for a nearly a century all who professed to be devoted followers
    of Marx defended the Communist states or the nationalized industries of democratic
    states as leading the world to a better day in conformity to Marx&#39;s analysis
    and ideas. <BR> <BR>So, that would be all except G.A. Cohen, John Roemer, E.O.
    Wright, Michael Levin, Terrell Carver, John Hofffman, Mark Cowling, Jules Townsend...shall
    I go on naming Marxist academics who don&#39;t fit into the stereotype you have
    constructed to keep you safe from the real world? <BR> <BR>Oh yes, and you forgot
    Trotsky! I have a sneaky feeling he didn&#39;t think the &#39;communist states&#39;
    were very communist either. &#40;And for the avoidance of doubt, and before you
    go down that route, I&#39;m not a Trotskyite either&#41;. <BR>  <BR>I would add
    myself to that list, but I&#39;m not a devoted follower of Marx. <BR> <BR> <BR>
    <BR>&#62;&#62;Now you airily wave away all those millions as not worth even addressing.
    \ <BR> <BR>Hang on a minute. You airily wave them away as being wrong about the
    validity of communism, but I can&#39;t airily wave them away as being wrong about
    the point of Marxism. That doesn&#39;t seem fair. <BR> <BR>Anyway, I like airily
    waving away the professed beliefs of millions, if those millions are wrong. <BR>I&#39;ve
    got some great ones up my sleeve, but I&#39;m reluctant to open any more cans
    of worms just now. <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;At the same time you don&#39;t either
    address the contradictions of Marx with reality, which I have pointed out, nor
    your mistaken interpretations of Marx and Engels, which are flatly contradicted
    by my quotations from them.  <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve addressed your arguments and quotations,
    I won&#39;t do it again here. If you want to see further details of my &#39;mistaken&#39;
    interpretations of Marx, I suggest you look <a href=\"http://www.netforge.co.uk/HM/\"
    target=\"_blank\">here</a> <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;Nor do you acknowledge that Marx
    had little to say about how a socialist state might work. <BR> <BR>Well I haven&#39;t
    explicitly acknowledged that, because I&#39;ve been too busy with the rest of
    what you&#39;ve said, but yes, you&#39;re right on that one. However, he did have
    much to say on what the ABSOLUTELY NECESSARY PRACTICAL PRECONDITIONS\t for socialism
    were. And they were not met in Russia in 1917. &#40;If you follow the above link,
    you&#39;ll find that that&#39;s covered there too&#41;. <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;The
    only experience we have of socialism is of the communist and socialist countries
    of the twentieth century. <BR> <BR>We don&#39;t have any experience of socialism,
    in the sense in which it would be relevant to this discussion. <BR>&#40;That is,
    as a socialist economic form existing outside of and after capitalism. Socialist
    measures inside a capitalist economy are not the issue&#41;. <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;Anyone
    actually interested in improving society will try to learn by the failures in
    these societies, as well as by the failures of capitalist societies. To wave the
    socialist failures aside as irrelevant and to simply re-assert Marx is to take
    Marx on faith, as a dogmatic religion. This had some excuse in those states where
    Marxism was the state religion and you could be imprisoned or shot for criticising
    Marxism. Today such a devotional attitude to Marx is just ridiculous. <BR> <BR>When
    did I say they were irrelevant? The failures of the so-called communist states
    is not irrelevant to an understanding of how to improve society. I never said
    it was. Its a central part of my doctoral thesis. I certainly wouldn&#39;t have
    spent several years working on something I thought was irrelevant. <BR>But their
    collapse adds weight to Marx&#39;s point of view - if anything it supports his
    theory of history. If you read Marx, not just the bits that Popper quotes, you
    might understand that. <BR> <BR>Then again, you might not."
  created: '2004-03-18 23:29:47'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: '&#62;&#62;OK Steve, so the Soviet Union doesn&#39;t count. How about the
    late great German &#34;Democratic Republic?&#34; Why did they all choose to abandon
    Communism? Or if it wasn&#39;t communism, what was it?  <BR> <BR>Well, its difficult
    to categorise, or give a quick description of somewhere like East Germany. It
    was pretty much a product of its time, so influenced by external factors that
    you couldn&#39;t really generalise about it as a model of any kind of political
    ideal. I think we can safely say it was unpleasant and inneficient, and also that
    it certainly has no bearing on marxist theory. <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;I think
    these mid-1800s theories had more relevance in the economic conditions of the
    time. Industrial labor has since given way to more and more technology, and more
    and more people in both the First and Third World are engaged in less physical
    labor and more symbolic analysis. Would you disagree?  <BR> <BR>Well, that&#39;s
    probably true. <BR>I certainly recognise that Marx was a man of his time, and
    that the world has changed since then. <BR>It doesn&#39;t mean that his analytical
    framework is no longer of value though. <BR>&#40;I don&#39;t notice anyone rushing
    to throw Darwin out with the bathwater&#41;. <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-18 23:40:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; the world has changed since then. <BR> <BR>One thing to consider &#40;although
    it&#39;s difficult to gauge the real full effects&#41; is the degree to which
    people know what&#39;s going on in the rest of the world, so quickly, in so much
    detail: this is hugely significant. I think it causes a lot of trouble &#40;like
    people who see America on TV and don&#39;t realize what it really is&#41; as well
    as the tolerance it teaches &#40;by showing that people everywhere are really
    the same&#41;. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-18 23:48:10'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: <i>It doesn&#39;t mean that his analytical framework is no longer of value
    though. &#40;I don&#39;t notice anyone rushing to throw Darwin out with the bathwater&#41;.</i>
    <BR> <BR>Heh, funny, living in Georgia I see lots of such people, including a
    state school superintendent who wants to replace all instances of &#34;evolution&#34;
    in the curriculum with &#34;biological changes over time.&#34; <BR> <BR>But for
    Marx I would think a more fitting comparison would be, and I&#39;m being generous
    here, Isaac Newton. Newton&#39;s model works inside some increasingly tightly
    defined constraints. The computer you&#39;re reading this on, for example, relies
    on some very un-Newtonian phenomena. <BR> <BR>And Hrant, I&#39;m glad to hear
    your distaste for public education. When I have kids they&#39;ll either be home-schooled
    or go to a private school, and before that happens I intend to move to a state
    or nation with education vouchers.
  created: '2004-03-19 00:34:36'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: 'Hrant, <BR>I started writing an answer, and it ended up really long. I think
    this thread has probably had enough of my long winded ramblings, so I cut it down
    to this: <BR>&#40;I saved the long version so I can send it to you if you like&#41;
    <BR> <BR>Well, OK, people aren&#39;t trained in politics, and sometimes just wish
    it would work without them having to think about it, BUT <BR>- Some people really
    do think about politics, and really do value their vote. <BR>The vote isn&#39;t
    something to be sniffed at either. I know that we only get to choose the personnel,
    that we aren&#39;t voting on which political system we&#39;re  <BR> <BR>going
    to have, just who is going to run it, but, in the absence of anything better being
    just around the corner, its still worth being able to choose the personnel. <BR>
    <BR>Even though we can&#39;t change the system, we can&#39;t vote capitalism out,
    we can still make a difference that isn&#39;t trivial. <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;I
    thereby state that democracy is not working, and can never really work. <BR> <BR>There
    are so many ways in which democracy doesn&#39;t work. <BR>But I think its another
    thing to say it couldn&#39;t work. <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>Also, what you&#39;re suggesting
    is a vote for a president, who gets absolute power. <BR>Why not just tell Bush
    he keep the job until he finds someone equally vile? <BR>And if people aren&#39;t
    qualified to elect a leader for 4 years, how come they&#39;re qualified to elect
    the start of a &#40;non-hereditary&#41; dynasty? <BR>And if people are oppressed
    by their lack of freedom from choice, what is the pressure of this decision going
    to do to them? They have to make decisions which could have an irreversible impact
    on the lives of future generations. &#40;OK, that&#39;s always true, but not so
    starkly as under your system&#41;. <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;Getting rid of a bad
    monarch: you do it the old-fashioned way. Physically depose him.   <BR> <BR>But
    if you give someone absolute power, but under threat of physical overthrow, you&#39;re
    asking for tyrannical paranoid leaders. <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;When you have
    a system that can&#39;t be changed &#40;because it owns the airwaves hence the
    minds of the voters&#41;, with a different puppet changing every 4/8 years, and
    it&#39;s a system destroying the world, how the hell do you get rid of it?  <BR>
    <BR>If I knew that, do you think I&#39;d be wasting my time here?'
  created: '2004-03-19 00:59:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; its still worth being able to choose the personnel. <BR> <BR>Not when
    doing so perpetuates an increasingly vile system. Not voting makes me less responsible
    for the rape and pillaging. Not voting is the least I can do in this fight. <BR>
    <BR>&#62; Why not just tell Bush he keep the job until he finds someone equally
    vile? <BR> <BR>Because given an open field he would be way down the list of who
    people would vote for. Providing only two de facto candidates &#40;one Republican
    and one Democrat&#41; gives the ultimate balance of control and subversion. And
    the fact that last time the vote was so close is an indication that the individuals
    running had no real bearing on what people were actually voting for. <BR> <BR>&#62;
    how come they&#39;re qualified to elect the start of a &#40;non-hereditary&#41;
    dynasty? <BR> <BR>1&#41; That&#39;s a practical issue. How else are you going
    to do it? <BR>2&#41; Given four years of minimally biased analysis, I think people
    could very much find somebody sufficiently capable. People aren&#39;t dumb, they
    know what they like - they act dumb when manipulated. Bush is an honest person,
    and people are attracted to that. But he&#39;s also unintelligent, bigoted and
    too religious &#40;not the same thing as being spiritual&#41;. You need a well-rounded
    person, an exceptional person in many ways. They exist. <BR> <BR>&#62; you&#39;re
    asking for tyrannical paranoid leaders.  <BR> <BR>No, I&#39;m asking for a person
    who serves his people&#42;, and would step down if needed. Like Shevardnadze.
    <BR> <BR>&#42;  Being a good monarch is an extremely difficult, thankless job.
    Being the president of the US is fairly easy, you just have to please the plutocracy.
    <BR> <BR>&#62; what is the pressure of this decision going to do to them? <BR>
    <BR>Make them take their country seriously? <BR> <BR>&#62; If I knew that, do
    you think I&#39;d be wasting my time here? <BR> <BR>Being impotent towards affecting
    monumental change doesn&#39;t prevent one from thinking about it. <BR> <BR>What
    is your answer to this mess? <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>We have to stop voting. <BR>
    <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-19 02:25:59'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: <i> I think we can safely say it was unpleasant and inneficient,</i>[sic]
    <BR> <BR>Yes. <BR> <BR><i> and also that it certainly has no bearing on marxist
    theory.</i> <BR> <BR>So from this I must conclude that the attempted application
    of Marxist theory will inevitably result in something that certainly has no bearing
    on Marxist theory. <BR> <BR>What a useful theory!
  created: '2004-03-19 17:46:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: <a href="http://www.theonion.com/news/index.php?i=1&amp;n=1" target="_blank">http://www.theonion.com/news/index.php?i=1&amp;n=1</a>
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-03-20 17:02:20'
date: '2004-03-16 20:03:18'
node_type: forum
title: George W Bush

---
