---
author:
  name: Spottedfeather
body: I love the Coop Flaired font. But is there anyway to get it without the ridiculous
  $30 prices ? Thanks.
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Where are you finding it for $30 ? It is only available as part of the <a
    href="http://www.houseind.com/index.php?page=showfont&id=12">Typography of Coop</a>
    package at [[House Industries]].
  created: '2007-08-07 01:45:06'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Here I refer to the [[http://www.houseind.com/index.php?page=support&section=faq|House
    Industries FAQ]]:\r\n\r\n<strong>Q. I can go to my local Wal-Mart and get 3000
    fonts for $19.95. How come your stuff is so pricey?</strong>\r\n\r\nA: You get
    what you pay for.\r\n\r\n<strong>Q: Seriously, what's the difference?</strong>\r\n\r\nA:
    We have a dedicated staff of nine people whose sole purpose is to make fonts and
    artwork for you. We have families, bills, health insurance, etc. Most of our collections
    are developed over a period of 18 to 24 months, so we have a huge investment in
    time and effort in each typeface and each piece of artwork. Come down to the studio
    some time and we'll show you.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-07 02:08:19'
- author:
    name: dropkick
    picture: 112376
  body: "Are we actually having this conversation on typophile?\r\n\r\nyikes."
  created: '2007-08-07 02:55:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Take a look at his home page\u2014I\u2019m pretty sure that this one is just
    a troll."
  created: '2007-08-07 02:57:50'
- author:
    name: Spottedfeather
  body: "What does my homepage have to do with anything ? I just nicely asked a question
    about finding a font that costs a lot of money for something so simple. No need
    to get all snippy. I'm sorry I tried to get help. It won't happen again. Jeez.
    I thought that that was what forums were for. Guess I was wrong.\r\n\r\nThink
    about this. Once bread becomes toast, you can't make it back into bread."
  created: '2007-08-07 06:20:45'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Perhaps you misunderstand who the members of Typophile are? You do know that
    most of the type designers and foundries, the people whose jobs are dependant
    on creative work that \"costs a lot of money for something so simple\", some who
    are barely scraping by because of people like you, are the primary component of
    Typophile?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-07 09:04:40'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Dan - I really appreciate how you put that. The French like to ask people
    what car they have, and then how about we come over and take it - for nothing.
    It gets lost in the translation. \r\n\r\nSpottedfeather - your simile has very
    little meaning. So think about this - after you eat your piece of toast -- just
    how are you going to earn money to buy another piece of bread - when everyone
    is stealing your paycheck?"
  created: '2007-08-07 13:01:53'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>Think about this. Once bread becomes toast, you can\u2019t make it
    back into bread.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut consider: Martha Stewert could probably make
    a decent bread pudding with it.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-07 14:43:17'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Yes, $30 is a ridiculous price for a font. It should be more, but the market
    being what it is, that is probably the price point they feel they can maximize
    revenue with ... oh, wait ... did you think they spend hundred of hours building
    and perfecting that font so you could have it for free?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-07 16:33:18'
- author:
    name: Sam M
  body: "Further, its really a sad state of affairs when an industry has to start
    splitting its potential clientele into two groups: \"thieves\" and \"not-thieves.\"
    that's usually an indication that prices are out of control. \r\n\r\nIts the same
    problem the music industry has.  Does anyone remember the first time they saw
    a $22.99 sticker for a music CD and then magically that very same season Napster
    erupted as a household name and then all the sudden millions of teenagers were
    \"thieves\" - it put the industry into a freefall. \r\n\r\nImplying that a potential
    customer is a thief or somehow unscrupulous for asking if he could find a quality
    product within his budget (notice he didn't say free, he just said $30 is ludicrous)
    is NOT good business. \r\n"
  created: '2007-08-08 14:58:06'
- author:
    name: Sam M
  body: "\r\n designers of course deserve their due payment for their work, but the
    font liscencers are a little bit guilty of having a copyright monopoly - such
    that prices aren't competitively brought down by market forces.  The problem is
    that they have control of virtually infinite copyrights - that guarantee out of
    proportion prices and lead to this sort of \"sticker shock.\"  \r\n"
  created: '2007-08-08 16:03:26'
- author:
    name: Sam M
  body: 'the music company allowed downloads of single songs for $1 and all of the
    sudden everyone used itunes!  If the type industry let you get unpackaged single
    fonts for a reasonable price (try $5) i think you''d see instant success. Especially
    for headline fonts. Who would ever use "Coop-Flaired-super-ultra-black-italic-monospaced"
    anyway??? - its the same as asking if anyone ever listens to more than the first
    track of a Wang Chung album.  People would still buy the entire family for great
    fonts like Thesis and Scala. Personally I really don''t want all those other family
    members junking up my hard drive and slowing my computer down. '
  created: '2007-08-08 16:05:26'
- author:
    name: Sam M
  body: sorry to be ranty. i edited down my posts to try to be less of a jerk.  Also
    sorry to compare any typeface to Wang Chung.  altho that is a good song.
  created: '2007-08-08 16:20:29'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "The fact that most graphic designers were weaned on Apple's successful business
    model of top dollar, take it or leave it, probably influences some of the attitude.
    \r\n\r\nIt would be nice if there was a field at the retail sites telling how
    many hours were put into a font or set (broken down into categories like design,
    spacing/kerning, testing, etc). Even allowing for efficiency of work, we would
    then have some sort of guage at how ridiculous a price really is. There is probably
    a good chance some are even a bargain at $30."
  created: '2007-08-08 16:20:41'
- author:
    name: Sam M
  body: "Fontpla - i agree with the gist. I think part of my skepticism comes from
    the \"man-hours\" argument tho. \r\n\r\nThe fact is a font is not just a singular
    work of art - its also mass liscensed and mass distributed consumer design element,
    like a tube of paint.  In that arena, the \"man-hours\" argument just doesnt work
    because its supply and demand - the supply is virtually infinite and the demand
    is large (as seen in the number of \"thieves\".  Fonts are NOT \"limited edition\"
    and therefore should not be sold at \"limited edition\" prices.\r\n\r\nMy argument
    is that if you package it better, in more managable increments, you'll sell more
    and make more money and maybe even have the competition to make better product. "
  created: '2007-08-08 16:28:28'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Interesting idea, Sam...iTunes for fonts.\r\n\r\nAnd I agree, $30 is a crazy
    price to pay for toast. \r\n\r\nThough a $30 font sounds pretty damn cheap."
  created: '2007-08-08 16:38:53'
- author:
    name: Sam M
  body: "Perception of cheapness is relative.  Certain fonts are certainly worth the
    money based on their merits alone.  most are not, when you consider that in the
    long run, one font goes only so far for a designer. The entire helvetica font
    family retails for nearly the retail price of Indesign, and that's just weird
    to me.  \r\n\r\nI just think that many times it get wrapped up in what they think
    a font \"should cost\" rather than thinking of how a foundry could sell more units
    and get more good design out there. \r\n\r\nheh - I'm more interested in a \"IKEA\"
    for fonts than an \"itunes\"  Great design, widely distributed, for less!"
  created: '2007-08-08 16:55:01'
- author:
    name: Sam M
  body: "DanGayle's attack is unfounded - don't blame the customer!\r\n\r\nA ballpoint
    pen is \"simple.\" with no infrastructure, a ballpoint pen would cost the equivalent
    of millions of dollars and thousands of manhours to reproduce.  Even with the
    infrastructure, a ton of sweat and and work and design goes into a ballpoint pen.
    Yet a pen is 99 cents and is incredibly lucrative. With computers, just as many
    people potentially use fonts today as use pens. In a market economy, a font is
    in fact \"simple.\" \r\n\r\nA font is like any other type of industrial design.
    \ A michael graves toaster from Target can be a legitimately amazing, beautiful
    piece of design and have all the soul and sweat and artistic achievement in the
    world, and still be dirt cheap.\r\n\r\nThe consumer's expectations aren't the
    problem...it's usually the suppliers' business model.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-08 17:58:15'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Sam, your analogies are false \u2013 fonts do not become obsolete, they might
    go out of fashion or be rarely used but within their intended environments they
    don\u2019t stop working and if they should they can be reinstalled. You seem to
    imagine a cartel operates among foundries, but the consumer has a choice that
    ranges from free to eye-watering and nearly every taste and pocket is catered
    for.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-08-08 20:06:27'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "There may also be a coolness factor that took some marketing to achieve.
    Marketing takes money. \r\n\r\nI remember in the '70s that the communists would
    have us believe it was OK to steal anything as long as you muttered \"For the
    people!\" while stealing it, which is the logical extention of telling people
    what they can sell their unique product for, or it will be stolen. \r\n\r\nIf
    the product isn't that unique, then why not use something else?\r\n\r\nPeople
    have a right to charge what the market will bear. If they are going for an exclusive
    clientele, they have that right.\r\n\r\nThere are millions? of font choices, and
    if you can't manage to create something nice using a lower costing alternative,
    than that doesn't say much for your design ability. \r\n\r\nBottom line, art,
    in general, is not supported as most artists would like. But if an artist can
    make a decent living for themselves and maybe employ others too, then rock on!"
  created: '2007-08-08 20:29:18'
- author:
    name: Sam M
  body: "Tim, Your point is well taken - but i think you're thinking of a font as
    an end-product and not as a design resource. A font going out of style is essentially
    the same as a font going obsolete in an industry based on trends. If a font can't
    be used to make money, it is useless.  Designers for the most part won't pay for
    fonts they don't intend to use in their business.  \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-08 20:45:01'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Caveat emptor, if one buys a font as part of a trend then one takes that
    risk and builds the cost into a job or spreads it over several jobs for a client,
    how long before that font has paid off the cost and is earning (or subsidising
    less successful speculative purchases)?\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-08-08 21:05:40'
- author:
    name: Sam M
  body: "Fontpla, you're absolutely right - and as a designer i agree.\r\n\r\nBut
    i also think that much of copyright law is based on shaky logic and is rigged
    against the normal laws of 'people paying what the market will bear.'  After all
    \"charging whatever we want just because we can\" is on its face unethical."
  created: '2007-08-08 21:25:10'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>...its really a sad state of affairs when an industry has to start splitting
    its potential clientele into two groups: \u201Cthieves\u201D and \u201Cnot-thieves.\u201D
    that\u2019s usually an indication that prices are out of control.</em>\r\n\r\nNo,
    it's not that simple. You make that polarization, not us.\r\n\r\n<em>Its the same
    problem the music industry has.</em>\r\n\r\nNo it is not.\r\n\r\n<em>...the font
    liscencers are a little bit guilty of having a copyright monopoly - such that
    prices aren\u2019t competitively brought down by market forces.</em>\r\n\r\nAbsolute
    twaddle. We have no \"copyright monopoly\". Copyright 'law' in the U.S practically
    undermines the very principal of copyright. Font prices <strong>are</strong> set
    by supply and demand. The market pays what it thinks fonts are worth---the price(s)
    they sell for.\r\n\r\n<em>The problem is that they have control of virtually infinite
    copyrights - that guarantee out of proportion prices and lead to this sort of
    \u201Csticker shock.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nNope. It is obvious in the extreme to myself
    and other type professionals here that you have a very slim grasp of how the font
    industry really works and how prices are determined. The only \"sticker shock\"
    is experienced by unprofessional designers and unprofessional font users whose
    expectations of price are unrealistic, and unprofessional.\r\n\r\n<em>...i think
    you\u2019d see instant success.</em>\r\n\r\nThe type industry is quite successful
    the way things are, thankyou. What makes you think there is a lack of success?\r\n\r\n<em>The
    fact is a font is not just a singular work of art - its also mass liscensed and
    mass distributed consumer design element, like a tube of paint.</em>\r\n\r\nFonts
    are not mass-consumed. In the case of commercial fonts they are commercially consumed,
    but not <em>en masse</em> the way music and films are.\r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019m more
    interested in a \u201CIKEA\u201D for fonts than an \u201Citunes\u201D Great design,
    widely distributed, for less!</em>\r\n\r\nIf you think IKEA furniture is great
    design you need to discover real furniture.\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>A font is like any
    other type of industrial design.</em>\r\n\r\nNo.\r\nIt.\r\nIs.\r\nNot.\r\n\r\nFonts
    are not mass-consumed like toasters and the same market economics do not apply.
    \r\n\r\nIn your view fonts are preposterously-priced, but possibly you are forgetting
    that both large foundries and independents give away at least one high quality
    font for free, as an incentive to customers. It's also a nice way of showing that
    we're not consumed with making a buck or obsessed with control of our intellectual
    property.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-08-08 21:26:51'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Going back to the iTunes thing. A buck a track is less than half price from
    the $22.99 album price (assuming an average of 12 tracks per album). That is a
    far shorter price cut than going from $30 to $5.\r\n\r\nMaybe it is just because
    I remember when a filmstrip for a Comp II used to cost the same as my weekly salary.
    And that was one font: bold or italic with regular, but not both. And this would
    wear out, if not from use over a few years, then through obsolence when the machines
    were updated every four or five years. I still have PC fonts from 1988.\r\n\r\nI
    think we are getting a good deal for what we pay. People who want free fonts can
    get them from the free collections. It doesn't bother me when they have to spend
    hours cleaning their font lists when some crude freebie crashes Photoshop. My
    quality fonts will never do that."
  created: '2007-08-08 21:28:21'
- author:
    name: Sam M
  body: "woah, didn't mean to annoy.  your points are well taken and i was just being
    general and defending somebody who was getting harrassed.  \r\n\r\nYoure right,
    i don't have a good knowledge of how well the industry is doing. I'm just making
    casual observations based on personal experience. I don't like the way fonts are
    sold, i'd buy more if it was different. \r\n\r\nIKEA is a good design business
    model. So is target. I'm no snob. \r\n\r\nS\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-08 22:23:00'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"The only \u201Csticker shock\u201D is experienced by unprofessional designers
    and unprofessional font users whose expectations of price are unrealistic, and
    unprofessional.\"\r\n\r\nI wouldn't say that. Some fonts are very expensive. Many
    project are not large budgets. So, sticker shock isn't that rare of an event.\r\n\r\nNot
    that there's nothing wrong with selling one's fonts at a premium.\r\n\r\n\"If
    you think IKEA furniture is great design you need to discover real furniture.\"\r\n\r\nAs
    a piece of commercial design, meeting price points that appeal to the consumer
    is a major factor of the success of the design. \r\n\r\nThere seems to be room
    for premium priced fonts and more mass market fonts. Both can and do seem to exist
    side by side just fine.\r\n\r\nCan one sell more than 10 times the units if they
    sell a font at $10 rather than $100? I have no idea. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-08 22:34:33'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "A. Coop Flared is ugly. Coop Light is nice.\r\n\r\nB. Does the world need
    any more fonts? No.\r\n\r\nAt this stage in the game, type design is, at best,
    a hobby, regardless of how many of you are professionals. As far as I'm concerned,
    there's room in this world for about 10 professional type designers. There are
    much bigger fish to fry these days.\r\n\r\nC. Attacking an innocent \"troller\"
    is both pompous and childish, both signs of insecurity.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-08 22:40:57'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>At this stage in the game, type design is, at best, a hobby...</cite>\r\n\r\nWell,
    there you have it. You are all flailing at windmills.\r\n; )"
  created: '2007-08-08 23:11:04'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "Wang Chung have been treated unfairly in this discussion. There are many
    good Wang Chung songs. Sure, they had a dreck #2 hit in '86 but \"Dance Hall Days\"
    was a solid new-wave classic track (especially the 12 inch) and \"Isn't It About
    Time We Were on TV\" is thought provoking and wobbly. The \"Points on the Curve\"
    album was rather piss-poor, mind you. The first couple of albums are a good for
    more than a few spins.\r\n\r\nBetter examples: Tommy Tutone, Lipps Inc, Toni Basil,
    Haysi Fantayzee, Pseudo Echo . . ."
  created: '2007-08-08 23:39:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>such that prices aren\u2019t competitively brought down by market forces.</em>\r\n\r\nDon't
    expect market forces to work \"correctly\" under virtual monopolistic circumstances.\r\n\r\nIf
    Apple, Adobe and Microsoft didn't bundle hundreds of fonts for free with their
    apps, there might be the kind of mass market where indie font manufacturers could
    reduce prices to a few dollars, because we would be shifting tens of thousands
    of font licences, rather than hundreds.\r\n\r\nHowever, don't expect things to
    remain the same either. It may be possible for reputable independent foundries
    to develop high volume, low price marketing models, as the industry progresses.
    After all, as a retail phenomenon, the indie font business only really got started
    in around 1999, with e-commerce, and is still gathering steam. Note the low price
    of some impressively stacked Opentype fonts in the Myfonts best-sellers; a lot
    of value there.\r\n\r\n<em>copyright monopoly</em>\r\n\r\nThat doesn't have much
    to do with it (see above).\r\nHowever, copyright protection is probably a bit
    too long. William St Clair found that when it was 12-24 years (for literary works),
    that produced the most dynamic cultural effects (in his book<em> The Reading Nation
    in the Romantic Period</em>).\r\n\r\nWith a controlled market and long copyright
    protection, St Clair found a situation where the dominant businesses produced
    new material at high prices, allowing them to milk their legacy assets, in various
    price brackets geared to different levels of purchaser, for long periods of time.
    I'm not quite sure how that compares with fonts. It's hard to compare intellectual
    property for physical and digital products, and I haven't finished his book yet,
    let alone tried to figure out how it fully relates to fonts.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-09 00:32:13'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>As far as I\u2019m concerned, there\u2019s room in this world for about
    10 professional type designers.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe rest of you, out of the water!
    (who gets to decide which 10 get to enter the kingdom of designers? ...whoever
    passes out the most [[http://www.fontbook.com|FontBooks?]])"
  created: '2007-08-09 00:48:30'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "You can always tell which people have never designed, or attempted to design
    a typeface. They are usually the ones who moan and bleat about type being 'too
    expensive' and say 'more people would buy it if it were cheaper'. \r\n\r\nBlah
    blah blah. \r\n\r\n<cite>B. Does the world need any more fonts? No.</cite>\r\n\r\n[[http://www.heavydutypress.com/services/for_Hire|Does
    the world need any more terrible designers assaulting my eyeballs with terrible
    logos?]] No.\r\n\r\n<cite>At this stage in the game, type design is, at best,
    a hobby, regardless of how many of you are professionals. As far as I\u2019m concerned,
    there\u2019s room in this world for about 10 professional type designers. There
    are much bigger fish to fry these days.</cite>\r\n\r\nOh my god! This is a truly
    ignorant statement! You are one funny dude, Koppa. Luckily this world is can handle
    more than [[http://www.heavydutypress.com/colo/fans/colo/why/|10 fine printing
    'artists'.]]\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-08-09 02:19:31'
- author:
    name: Sky Tower
    picture: 112424
  body: "<cite>B. Does the world need any more fonts? No.</cite>\r\n\r\nKoppa, are
    you F**ked in the head? really, I mean come on, that is mental!\r\n\r\n<cite>At
    this stage in the game, type design is, at best, a hobby, regardless of how many
    of you are professionals. As far as I\u2019m concerned, there\u2019s room in this
    world for about 10 professional type designers. There are much bigger fish to
    fry these days. </cite>\r\n\r\nOooh, your saying it to get attention... I get
    it now. Because, really, that is insane.\r\n\r\n<cite>C. Attacking an innocent
    \u201Ctroller\u201D is both pompous and childish</cite>\r\n\r\nLike your design
    work, which is atrocious, I mean come on, I'm so sick of bad design and people
    who are all talk, why can't you back yourself up? those logos are so BAD! come
    ON! its so insane that people could even contemplate paying for these... god!
    I can't say enough of how bad they are! \r\n\r\nYour work is truly like eating
    at McDonalds... but your comments on type designers are a lot worse.\r\n\r\nST\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-09 06:22:48'
- author:
    name: Sam M
  body: "Nick- you said what i was trying to say in a much better and more precise
    way.  \r\n\r\nalso, tommy tutone would have been a much better example. The internet
    so reduces my communication skills.\r\n\r\nI certainly don't downplay how much
    work it takes to design a font.  It takes a huge amount of work to design anything
    the right way.  This isn't about what fonts should cost. its about what fonts
    could cost if potential markets were tapped.    \r\n\r\nAll i can say is that
    design is super-hip right now. Vastly, astoundingly HIP. You just have to teach
    a certain market segment to care about something that is quite opaque (like where
    their font folder is hidden on their cute little macbook.) \r\n\r\nI definetly
    agree about the Adobe, Mac, Microsoft monopoly. However, i think the fact that
    if you google \"font\" half of what comes up is THOUSANDS OF FREE FONTS!!! FREE
    FREE FREE!!!! is even worse for business. People want to pay and are dubious of
    the choice between free and expensive. I think it would be better to convince
    them to sell their fonts for even the tiniest amount.  I'd really like to see
    a middle ground, a \"student grade\" so to speak.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-09 14:36:54'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "Holy cow, have I ever been hammered on my earlier comments. Mostly I'm glad
    someone called me funny. Okay, to some, my logos suck, and I'm a terrible designer,
    and I guess that very well could be true...subjectively, anyway. I'm not saying
    nobody can design a decent type face, I'm sure there are plenty of you out there
    who can. No...I KNOW there are plenty of people out there who can. All I'm saying
    is that there are lots of good ones out there already, and with the world going
    to hell the way it is, maybe sooner or later we (including me) should all concentrate
    on something else. Is that really so ignorant?  But that's not type talk, and
    maybe you're right, maybe I am just an attention getting ego-maniac. I like to
    think of it as stirring the pot. Peace to you all, honestly.\r\n   "
  created: '2007-08-09 16:42:28'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>I like to think of it as stirring the pot.</cite>\r\n\r\nOne of my
    favorite pastimes. However, I have found this pot can easily boil over when stirred
    too vigorously. Peace and all that.\r\n; )"
  created: '2007-08-09 17:16:01'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>half of what comes up is THOUSANDS OF FREE FONTS!!! FREE FREE FREE!!!!</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd
    if you click them, about 75% lead you to Monotype's [[http://www.fonts.com|fonts.com]].
    \r\n\r\nIt's like when record companies seed \"pre-release\" albums with tracks
    full of only static to the file-sharing networks.\r\n\r\nI wonder who's strategy
    that was and whether it is successful?"
  created: '2007-08-09 17:27:06'
- author:
    name: Down10
    picture: 128220
  body: "<em> Wang Chung have been treated unfairly in this discussion. There are
    many good Wang Chung songs. ...</em>\r\n\r\nRay's comment from left field on the
    justification of the Wang Chung example wins. \r\n\r\nI do understand that premium
    fonts often come with premium prices, but it seems more like there isn't really
    a mid-level market of typefaces.\r\n\r\nI see the font market much like the market
    for buying sunglasses. You can get the cheap-o $5 sunglasses at any drug store,
    the $30 sunglasses at a department store, the $120 sunglasses at a boutique, or
    blow $600 for the custom designer shades at a fancy shop in a world-class city.
    But what if you want to pay something like $75? The options become much more limited
    at that mid-level price.\r\n\r\nAnd yet, they're still just sunglasses - stylish
    pieces of plastic to protect your eyes from the sun. You could look through the
    stadium bleachers for a free lost pair if you had the time and patience for such
    a thing (and the willingness to put up with many a broken pair)."
  created: '2007-08-09 23:58:54'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>But what if you want to pay something like $75?</cite>\r\n\r\nYou buy
    the ShadeMaker XXL pack of knock-offs in every color for $29.95 and pocket the
    difference?"
  created: '2007-08-10 00:35:22'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Hi there:\r\n\r\nSpottedfeather> As much everyone in this thread thinks they
    know you, they don't. WE DON'T KNOW YOUR SITUATION. If $30 (or the $255 you'll
    have to pay to actually get Coop Flaired) is too much for you to pay- that's fine.
    There are alternatives of similar stylization that might interest you.\r\n\r\nBrowse
    this foundrys' listings\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/browse/foundry/btn/\r\n\r\nSpecifically:\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/btn/grilled-cheese-btn/\r\n\r\nand
    \r\n\r\nThe bold weight of this font is very close to Coop Flaired\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/btn/hawaiian-aloha-btn/\r\n\r\nor\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/btn/roller-world-btn/\r\n\r\nYes
    these fonts are for-pay, but 12.99 surely beats the 200 plus you have to put out.
    As for me I would not even spend 2 cents on Coop- its the ugliest thing in the
    world. That's me. But House Industries- the foundry- makes a quality product.
    This means that the metrics (letter spacing), glyph design, hinting (how well
    it looks on screen) is virtually perfect. And that' where the higher price come
    from.\r\n\r\nThat's not to say all quality fonts are well priced- Device Fonts
    (cute but pricey) , Gary Munch's Really, and everything by Red Rooster is stupidly
    priced!\r\n\r\nBut anyway- I hope I have helped you. And don't listen to the goons
    in this thread. Typophile can be a great resource- use it to your advantage.\r\n\r\nAll
    my best to you,\r\n\r\nMike Diaz :-)"
  created: '2007-08-10 02:39:22'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I think there are a few threads on Typophile right now that are moments away
    from becoming insult-fests. It is ok for someone not to be able to afford a $30
    font. I think it is far better that the person is making an effort to rightfully
    license a font that they can afford rather than trolling with the pirates looking
    for a copy of Coop to use without proper licensing. \r\n\r\nAt the end of the
    day it is what is done with the font that matters not the original cost (or quality)
    of the font. \r\n\r\nLet's keep it above board and not go around insulting anyone."
  created: '2007-08-10 04:03:16'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "Agreed with the recent comment by Miss Tiffany, and crazily this was on my
    mind last night. I want apologize myself for the comments I made that ruffled
    a few feathers. I used an exaggerated number for effect, the point being that
    with the digital age, there are now a LOT of cooks in the kitchen, and while we
    many of us deserve to be paid like professionals, we cannot demand it, or whine
    about it when it doesn't happen. Which is why I work for peanuts within my small
    rural community (population 4,335), and often give my services away to folks that
    cannot afford to pay for anything. Please, all, understand that I personally appreciate
    all of your efforts in making this a more graphically beautiful world.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-10 17:52:33'
- author:
    name: SatisfyingCrunch
    picture: 112918
  body: "First off ... I love you all\r\n\r\nJust because you care \r\n\r\nthere's
    a hand-full of you whose comments brought our office to loud Hurrahs  (as I read
    aloud this article in particular)\r\n\r\nI'd like to add my own comments on this
    subject:\r\n\r\n1) there was a time when my pay-rate was such that it was worth
    it to my boss to pay for the 10+ hours of font fixing required with free (usually
    un-tested) fonts. Incidentally  I was recently flattered when I was presented
    with a company credit card specifically for font buying (whooda thunk it) ...
    I don't say this to brag (much) only to explain that as far as business models
    go it matters what's worth more, time or money. At this point in our firm's history,
    so-called \"luxury high-priced\" fonts are a money now VS money later decision
    ... \r\n\r\n2) the sad truth of the matter is that for every one of <em>US</em>
    there are forty or so for whom there exists less than a dozen fonts (Arial and
    TimesNR being the MVP's)and all the others are considered artsy fluff suitable
    for kindergarten teachers who want to gussy up their classroom. I get depressed
    just thinking about it.\r\n\r\n3)No one will care as much about a font as it's
    creator (save in certain cases where there's some idol worship involved [helvetica]),
    but this won't stop people from pouring their hearts into great design even at
    the risk of having their work summed up as \"such a simple thing\". (personally,
    going back to the \"IKEA\" model, if I were to have some fantastic, useful, mass-marketed-high-design
    artifact that I designed referred to as \"such a simple thing\" I believe it would
    be a point of great pride ... but that's neither here nor there)\r\n\r\nthat is
    all ... thank you for bearing with my verbosity \r\n\r\n-Pablo\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-10 21:41:30'
- author:
    name: pawn3d
  body: "I agree with the Sam;s comparison to the music industry.. Now look where
    it got them, 0.99 a song on iTunes. That said, I personally, wouldn't pay more
    than $5 for any font. This is especially true for fonts that have heavily been
    used in the mainstream. \r\n\r\nTake Coop Flaired for instance- it's the Hannah
    Montana logo font. So now you got hundreds of little girls trying to make Hannah
    Montana banners and fan art and they want the font. At $225 for they Coop briefcase,
    how many have you sold to them? 0."
  created: '2009-10-22 17:47:46'
date: '2007-08-07 01:42:17'
title: Coop Flaired

---
