---
author:
  name: Christian Robertson
  picture: 109415
body: "It seems like that in other creative industries people are all too happy to
  advertise how well their products are selling. The music industry has their charts.
  Box office sales are all newspapers talk about in the summer. TV likes to talk about
  its ratings. \r\n\r\nWhy then are type designers so shy? Here's my theory: All type
  designers secretly worry that anyone can design type as well as they can, and that
  if people knew what their sales were like that they would instantly create knockoffs
  of such quality that the original designs would no longer sell.\r\n\r\nWhat does
  everyone think? Are you shy about giving out your numbers, or do you like to brag
  about your top sellers? If not, why? "
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "All your examples relate to the very biggest performers based on some sort
    of industry-defined standard. There is no measuring stick for the font industry
    that compares to weekend box office sales or platinum records.\r\n\r\nBut it's
    an interesting question."
  created: '2007-08-09 03:38:31'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Kinda. There's no system in place to track font sales like box-office sales
    or album sales. The Starlets and Best Sellers pages on MyFonts is as close as
    it gets. But I guess it's true that any shmoe can chart a font if that's what
    you're getting at. I didn't know that it was such a big secret.
  created: '2007-08-09 04:01:27'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: "I'd say that there is a standard in the font industry exactly the same as
    platinum records, namely sales. It's just not public. I'm sure that people have
    their reasons for not publishing the numbers, though.\r\n\r\nOne difference might
    be that with music and movies, you want to see what everyone else is seeing. When
    using a creative asset, though, you might not want to use the same one as everyone
    else (unless you are a modernist; then you have to make sure your type looks exactly
    the same as the whole world ;). There is less motivation to publish the numbers
    for your font. You want your consumers to think, \"Wow, I just discovered the
    most amazing script font that only I know about. I'm going to use Cezanne on everything!\"\r\n\r\nIn
    the case of MyFonts, though, there is so much garbage to sift through that sales
    volume is used as a filter. The number of sales ends up being a motivator for
    purchase. The same can be said of the music and movie worlds. The consumer is
    asking, with so much garbage out there, what should I watch? The box office sales
    numbers tells them what other people find interesting.\r\n\r\nAnother motivator
    for sharing numbers in the case of the Movie industry is that when people know
    how huge your movie is, they are more likely to fund your next project. For TV,
    ratings mean ad sales, so the more public the ratings on the top shows the better.
    Even in the record business, there is the concept of record deals. If everyone
    knows you are a multi-platinum artist, you are going to get a better contract
    next time. These motivations for sharing numbers aren't present in the type industry."
  created: '2007-08-09 04:12:32'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "In the font industry, would you express sales in dollars or sales in units?\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-08-09 04:40:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I could report sales, but it would be a lot of work to compile, and I could
    only do it quarterly, as several of my distributors provide quarterly returns.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    how do I decide what to measure? - for instance, if I license a family of ten
    fonts to one customer for 300 terminals, what is that per font--300, 30, 1, or
    0.1?\r\n \r\nOr would I just divide the retail transaction by 10 on a per-font
    basis, and count dollar sales per font?\r\n\r\nWith so many foundries selling
    directly, it would be difficult to audit.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-09 05:22:36'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: I guess niche markets are garbage, huh?
  created: '2007-08-09 05:28:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Here\u2019s my theory: All type designers secretly worry that anyone
    can design type as well as they can...</cite>\r\n\r\nGiven what type designers
    go through to design a good typeface and the limited financial compensation for
    the work, your theory pretty much falls apart right there. \r\n\r\nAlbum and movie
    sales are publicly tracked because there is a finite amount of space available
    to them, so distributors and resellers need to know what is doing well to plan
    how to use that space (Actually the numbers aren\u2019t even publicly announced
    in most cases, they\u2019re published in trade journals and get republished by
    the mainstream media). In the case of fonts, space is essentially infinite due
    to tiny file sizes and relatively low sales volume\u2014it\u2019s not like anyone
    is keeping a hundred thousand boxed fonts in warehouses\u2014and thus irrelevant.
    There is no need to worry about how many screens a movie gets, or how many copies
    of the new hot album will clear out before the next shipment arrives. So it makes
    more sense for everyone to keep their numbers secret to the detriment of competitors."
  created: '2007-08-09 06:05:27'
- author:
    name: typovar
    picture: 111800
  body: Any international company has an anuals reports. No secerts there.
  created: '2007-08-09 09:22:05'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Who really wants to know, and why? For an independent, publishing sales etc
    is kinda like declaring your income publicly. And some people are a bit uncomfortable
    about that.\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-08-09 10:09:10'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "And how would you incorporate \"sales\" of the 500 fonts for a dollar collections,
    or the totally free fonts?\r\n\r\nAnd Kris makes a fine point. In fact, for a
    full time designer, the font sales might \"be\" the person's salary."
  created: '2007-08-09 14:33:29'
- author:
    name: Vertex
    picture: 112106
  body: "I don\u2019t understand if Your question refers to sales volume in sense
    of \u201Csold units\u201D or in sense of turnover.\r\n\r\nIn sense of turnover
    the industry (not the indy) is bound by law to publish once a year the annual
    report (financial statement). Usually you find it on the website link: Investor
    Relations.\r\n\r\nHere an example: http://www.bitstream.com/corporate/about/investor/index.html\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    much more difficult - but not impossible - to find \u201Ccharts\u201D:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.linotype.com/37/fontchartsbyfamilies.html\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontshop.de/news/topseller.html\r\n\r\nStatements
    or charts referring to \u201Cunits sold\u201D (fonts or font families) I found
    nowhere.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-09 15:30:44'
- author:
    name: mrschwartz
  body: "Christian, you've released some fonts, haven't you? You go first.\r\n\r\nI
    think CD sales are a misleading comparison. What you're asking is more like trying
    to find out how much various musicians make from licensing their music to be used
    in commercials, films and TV shows, and as far as I know they keep that info private,
    too."
  created: '2007-08-09 15:39:00'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "It's likely more of an issue of 'who cares?'\r\n\r\nThe only folks that likely
    care a lot about this are fellow type designers and given that the community is
    rather small, they likely all know this from just interacting with each other.\r\n\r\n\"Here\u2019s
    my theory: All type designers secretly worry that anyone can design type as well
    as they can...\"\r\n\r\nI think anyone that has actually sat down and designed
    a typeface has completely rid themselves of any thoughts like that. Just like
    all us DIY home remodeling folks. Sure I can redo my bathroom myself! Anyone can
    do that! (6 weeks and one very angry wife later...)\r\n\r\nThe only fonts I ever
    created for commercial use were just sloppy tracings of antique wood type. Anyone
    COULD have done that, but even that was a lot of work for the return on investment.
    (EDIT...and now that I see you've released some very nice faces as well, Christian,
    so you of course know all of this already ;o)"
  created: '2007-08-09 15:51:03'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: "I'm being a little sarcastic here. I don't really think that type designers
    think that their work is easy. I do think that type designers are terrified about
    copying, and worry that their customers won't be able to tell the difference between
    their quality work and the cheap knockoffs. It is true that the type design field
    has a very low barrier to entry from an equipment standpoint. From a blood, sweat
    and tears standpoint, well, we all know the answer to that.\r\n\r\n@mrschwartz:
    [sarcasm] I'm too worried that everyone will copy my work once they see how lucrative
    it is[/sarcasm]. I would like to see how I stack up on a \"New York Times Bestseller
    List\" of fonts though (even if I'm a long way from the top). Maybe that's a good
    reason to sell through MyFonts, to see if I could ever elbow up between the Helveticas
    and Univers' to the top 50! In the mean time, I'm very happy to be on Veer's \"Hot
    Fonts\" list ;-)"
  created: '2007-08-09 23:03:07'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Appearing on one shop's bestseller list does not make the font a bestseller
    overall. It's interesting to see how the lists from FontShop, MyFonts, and Veer
    differ significantly, revealing a bit about each reseller's clientele.\r\n\r\nDear
    Sarah, for instance, is made for Veer, but Pill Gothic might do better as a FontFont.
    I guess I'm digressing."
  created: '2007-08-09 23:20:09'
- author:
    name: Down10
    picture: 128220
  body: It's because there aren't standard "scans" of what fonts are being sold, and
    there isn't really a weather map or a publicity industry on font releases and
    when people buy them. Movies and music make big sales numbers the very day they
    are released -- fonts... not sure, but I'm guessing they don't.
  created: '2007-08-10 00:15:56'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "It would be fun to know how much you could make with fonts in relation to
    the output. But I can't blame anyone for not wanting to say how successful (or
    unsuccessful) they are. \r\n\r\nIf people knew how much certain people were making,
    they might start feeling <strong>that</strong> person obviously doesn't need the
    money (as much as me), so why shouldn't I pirate his fonts (For the people...
    <strong>right on!</strong>). That whole 'people should only make so much money,
    then they are greedy' type of thing foisted on us by certain political parties.\r\n\r\nWe
    should probably tax the people with lots of fonts, to give to those who aren't
    so fortunate.\r\n\r\n<strong>Fonts for ALL!!!</strong>\r\n\r\n(I may be getting
    my threads mixed up)"
  created: '2007-08-10 00:37:52'
- author:
    name: Christian Barca
    picture: 112373
  body: "Sarcastic sounds good!\r\n\r\nBy the amount the people have time to comment
    here and all over typophile (really appriciate it, don't get me wrong), I think
    they make shit loads of money. From \"hobby\" to occupation to hobby again. \r\n\r\n\xABDeus,
    my sells goin over the roof, ahh fuck it! What was it again... ahh yeah he should
    go down with the crossbar on the A...\xBB  \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n     "
  created: '2007-08-10 01:53:43'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Just consider hrant. He's off to the Mediterranean for like a month. Could
    you or I afford that? No. And he only has a few fonts. Just imagine what the rest
    of these guys must be raking in.\r\n\r\n(Meanwhile, a usurper basks in pretentions
    of prolificity)"
  created: '2007-08-10 02:12:46'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I''m pretty sure Hrant doesn''t make his "living" with fonts. '
  created: '2007-08-10 02:14:18'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Quiet, you're ruining my hypothetical house of cards.\r\n: )"
  created: '2007-08-10 03:22:17'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "<cite> I would like to see how I stack up on a \u201CNew York Times Bestseller
    List\u201D of fonts though (even if I\u2019m a long way from the top).</cite>\r\n\r\nBut
    what would that prove? One one hand, a bestseller list is just that\u2014top sales.
    It typically bears little correlation to quality, and could be bolstered by a
    huge license for a corporation which is dictated by their designer. Meaning that
    out of 501 licences, 500 could be the corporate license for Germany and 1 could
    be for J. Smith in Timbuktu. Whereas 300 licenses split many people internationally
    means that that more are using it for what it is, rather than by Brand Dictation.
    Y'know what I mean? On the other hand, it may be interesting to see how many people
    jump on the bandwagon of top-sellers, \"oh, it's selling really well\u2014that
    must mean it's good!\" mentality. \r\n\r\nEither way, it seems like an ego thing
    to want to be in the Top Whatever!\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-08-10 03:51:22'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "The time I'd think it would be most helpful to know sales volume would be
    when deciding which company/ies to distribute your font through. As a designer,
    you know that you're rolling the dice every time you create a font. So you want
    as much information as possible. \r\n\r\nFor example: my Olduvai is not on the
    hot list at Veer, and generally sells around 5 - 10 licenses per month (oops did
    that slip out?). What would Olduvai's sales look like if I went with FontShop
    instead? Or if I hadn't done an exclusive agreement at Veer and used multiple
    outlets? Should I change that now? For the record, I've been pleased with Veer,
    who have given Olduvai a decent amount of exposure in their catalogue over the
    years.\r\n\r\nI have limited experience shopping my fonts around, but I think
    companies are more forthcoming as a part of the negotiation process. I imagine,
    Kris when you signed on with Village, Chester gave you some idea about what might
    be possible for Feijoa by looking at Corundum or Dolly and how they've been marketed.
    If not, it would have been a reasonable question.\r\n\r\nAll that to say, I'm
    not surprised that foundries don't post numbers, but it's possible to feel out
    the situation (where relevant) in a private setting... either dealing directly
    with the foundry, or with designers who've used that foundry.\r\n\r\nOk, back
    to the little gem I'm working on called Deer Sarai.\r\n\r\nRandy"
  created: '2007-08-10 06:56:36'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "If this weren\u2019t turning into a really serious discussion, I\u2019d suggest
    that ranking by glyphs sold would be the way to go\u2026 (And Luc[as] de Groot
    in all the top spots, I guess).\r\n\r\n___\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2007-08-10 13:45:00'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "<em>\"All type designers secretly worry that anyone can design type as well
    as they can, and that if people knew what their sales were like that they would
    instantly create knockoffs of such quality that the original designs would no
    longer sell.\"</em>\r\n\r\nWow, Lol. Provoker. So, let me get this straight...a
    type designer who contractually obligates all his/her retailers to report sales
    to the exact number of fonts, and then sums that up and publishes it, is showing
    confidence in his/her ability to design type because it proves he/she are not
    afraid of competition from the average Joe/Josephine who could do just as well
    pirating their way down the sales list thus created.\r\n\r\nAm I with you so far<strong>?</strong>
    Does the average Joe/Josephine get to pirate <strong>all</strong> the tables or
    just the glyph shapes? I only ask 'cause I think its fair that if someone wants
    to make a dime in this business, they should <em>at least </em>be saddled with
    the burden of reading the FontLab documentation far enough to find all the <strong>\"gem\"
    </strong>icons, aka, the new backbone of the industry ;) Oww...sorry, I tripped
    over this huge rake in my office.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-08-10 14:42:35'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Provoker indeed. David, sorry to hear about the rake. \r\n\r\nPublic numbers
    seem to serve public companies that want to drive up their stock price: Car sales,
    box office sales, video game titles, real estate, iPod sales.\r\n\r\nBut it's
    hard to see how sharing numbers in the type world would serve the foundries. Frankly,
    it's pretty tiring to see the usual (big)foundries trot out the \"best selling\"
    list which contains the stuff they've been selling for 50 years. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-10 19:08:58'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "One of the maxims of marketing is that you find what you are #1 at and sell
    the hell out of it. For instance, Veer's recent Typecon presentation clearly shows
    what they are #1 at, and they were doing a damn good of convincing me that if
    I needed a script face, I know who to go to.\r\n\r\nThe opposite is also true.
    You don't market what you're not the best at (Unless that's your gimmick. We're
    #27 in font sales worldwide!). Perhaps a smaller font distributor has lower-ish
    sales volumes, but makes up for it in higher quality typefaces at higher prices.
    Volume in terms of units sold then would not matter when compared to another foundry
    that sells tons of cheap crap."
  created: '2007-08-11 03:45:15'
- author:
    name: vectorgirl
  body: ">>Here\u2019s my theory: All type designers secretly worry that anyone can
    design type as well as they can, and that if people knew what their sales were
    like that they would instantly create knockoffs of such quality that the original
    designs would no longer sell.\r\n\r\nHmmm, I'm not going to knock that theory
    because I'm a designer too and, while I work hard and am confident in what I do...from
    a subjective, outside standpoint...what's the REAL incentive in paying GOOD money
    for that for thousands of business owners who fail to see the forest for the trees
    and stay afloat anyway?\r\n\r\nI'm not a typographer but can certainly appreciate
    the hard work and talent it takes to create typefaces. I don't have the talent
    to do it so I don't.\r\n\r\nBut, as a consumer...I don't see that there's a lot
    of incentive on a wide-scale for another consumer who is NOT a real part of the
    design community to pay $200+ for a font that looks and operates a lot like a
    $20 knock-off at myfonts.\r\n\r\nI wasn't a print design major in college and
    up until my 3rd or 4th year working full-time I was always under the impression
    that a $20 simply wouldn't technically function for print. Then it did.\r\n\r\nBottom
    line: until you can legally protect a font name but not a font LOOK, there's no
    real incentive for people NOT to rip it off and sell it for $20 other than being
    shunned by the design community, and there's no reason to pay full price for it
    other than ethically feeling wrong about driving down the price of good design.
    So why even bother compiling numbers?\r\n\r\nI don't buy $20 fonts at work for
    the same reason I don't shop at Wal-Mart. But millions of people do."
  created: '2007-08-11 03:49:56'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t buy $20 fonts at work for the same reason I don\u2019t shop
    at Wal-Mart. But millions of people do.</em>\r\n\r\nI think we may have to initiate
    a \"double our price\" policy if we are losing market share due to charge too
    little. However, it is the agencies who don't buy our fonts at all and still use
    them that is more of a concern for us.\r\n\r\nImplying that anything at Myfonts
    for $20 is a knockoff is just a wrong statement. Myfonts is very good about ethics
    and if there are knockoffs, they should be alerted. On the other hand being \"inspired\"
    by a design can tread into a grey area."
  created: '2007-08-11 19:38:21'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>On the other hand being \u201Cinspired\u201D by a design can tread
    into a grey area.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt occurred to me that it would be nice if there
    was some software that could take two fonts I like, and combine them. Like taking
    font A, and being able to dial in a percentage of influence from font B. I'm sure
    anyone can think of examples that would be fun to try.\r\n\r\nBut if this were
    available, that would surely tread on some grey areas. But if someone wants to
    invent it, I will surely play with it.\r\n; )"
  created: '2007-08-11 19:50:59'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>It occurred to me that it would be nice if there was some software
    that could take two fonts I like, and combine them.</cite>\r\n\r\nSome of the
    Font Design software out there is capable of interpolating new font weights in-between
    existing weights. Who knows, maybe you could toss in two existing fonts and get
    something that would make a base for a new font."
  created: '2007-08-11 20:00:09'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> It occurred to me that it would be nice if there was some software that
    could take two fonts I like, and combine them.\r\n\r\nDr. Frankenstein tried something
    like that with humans ... it didn't work out too well. I don't suspect it would
    with fonts, either.\r\n\r\nNow I can see software of that type being used as a
    starting point by a competant designer, who will then tweak the results into a
    good font. But I fear it would result in the same kind of monstrosities that have
    resulted from the ability to change the width and height of fonts independently
    in DTP programs."
  created: '2007-08-11 23:44:21'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>Now I can see software of that type being used as a starting point
    by a competant designer</cite>\r\n\r\nHaven't you ever wished you could see strong
    stylistic font toned down just a tad? \r\n\r\nBut something Frankensteinish might
    occur when the two different kinds of 'a' or 'g' characters were combined. Then
    again, horrible seems to be a look that a lot of people are gunning for these
    days. It could be very popular."
  created: '2007-08-12 01:10:16'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Then again, horrible seems to be a look that a lot of people are gunning
    for these days. It could be very popular.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt would be perfect for
    grunge font designers. Interpolate a few fonts together, shred them up, and nobody
    can figure out where it all really came from.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-12 01:27:43'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>It occurred to me that it would be nice if there was some software that
    could take two fonts I like, and combine them. Like taking font A, and being able
    to dial in a percentage of influence from font B. I\u2019m sure anyone can think
    of examples that would be fun to try.</em>\r\n\r\nYou're not the first - over
    20 years ago Donald Knuth was already imagining a \"font that is one fourth of
    the way between Baskerville and Helvetica.\""
  created: '2007-08-12 04:00:05'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>You\u2019re not the first - over 20 years ago Donald Knuth was already
    imagining a \u201Cfont that is one fourth of the way between Baskerville and Helvetica.\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    think it first occurred to me with Rotis. \r\n\r\nBut it would be fun if there
    was a random feature, and you could just keep hitting it and see what it came
    up with. Sort of like the [[http://www.typogenerator.net/index.php|typoGenerator]]\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-12 04:05:30'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "FontPlayer:\r\n\r\nThat font-blending capability was realized in Ares FontChameleon
    software, back in the early 90s. Adobe acquired Ares to use the Chameleon technology
    for font compression in PostScript 3 printers, so the retail product vanished.
    But I played with it a fair bit, and it mostly kinda worked. Usually there would
    be a few letters or details that were messed up, but it worked better than it
    had any right to.\r\n\r\nNote: the fonts in question had to already be manually
    converted to Chameleon format to make this work, so you couldn't run it on just
    any arbitrary fonts.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-08-12 06:36:25'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>That font-blending capability was realized in Ares FontChameleon software,
    back in the early 90s.</cite>\r\n\r\nPlease tell Adobe to feel free to release
    an improved version of that capability any time they feel like muddying the waters.\r\n;
    )"
  created: '2007-08-12 15:18:42'
- author:
    name: vectorgirl
  body: "> Implying that anything at Myfonts for $20 is a knockoff is just a wrong
    statement. Myfonts is very good about ethics and if there are knockoffs, they
    should be alerted. On the other hand being \u201Cinspired\u201D by a design can
    tread into a grey area.\r\n\r\nOK, so it's not a true knock-off. But taking an
    expensive font and tweaking the ascenders so they're a micromillimeter longer
    on a few of the characters or tweaking the spacing doesn't make it a new font
    - or does it? Maybe that's something I just don't \"get\" about the type industry.\r\n\r\nYears
    ago a design house I interned for bought a few House Industries fonts that were
    awesome...but back then the free downloads at fontalicious didn't have a LOT of
    differences. If it's the difference between paying $1200 for a few fonts or downloading
    them free, other than the fact that you think the foundry is worth paying for...what's
    the incentive? \r\n\r\nI don't create fonts but it seems like the situation just
    sucks for people who do. As a font designer - how do you KNOW when somebody is
    using your fonts without paying for them? What if \"your\" font is retweaked as
    a free or $10 download somewhere and that's what this person's used? How do you
    keep track of that? I see designer's blogs complaining that some corporation ripped
    off their patterns, fonts, etc. but if there's no legality keeping anyone from,
    say, basically tracing it and \"repackaging it\" as something else for a fraction
    of the price, how do you know the company didn't buy that cheap, repackaged font/pattern/whatever
    instead?"
  created: '2007-08-12 20:14:08'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Maybe a comparison to the fashion industry is useful:\r\n\r\nThe fashion
    leaders (aka couturiers) (re)invent clothing a couple of times a year.\r\nFashionistas
    (rich ladies or true fans) buy the expensive products of these events.\r\nFashion
    followers take the commercially viable 'inventions' and adapt them for the next
    group of followers\u2026\r\nEarly adaptors buy these.\r\nMiddlemarket firms fashion
    their own versions to sell to the millions.\r\nThese millions buy those rags.\r\nMeanwhile
    the whole rigamarole is already in phase two of the next season.\r\n\r\nMeaning:
    if you, as a designer, wait for the next big thing to get cheaper, you're bound
    to be a lame follower of fashion.\r\n\r\n___\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2007-08-12 21:07:45'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "<em>What if \u201Cyour\u201D font is retweaked as a free or $10 download
    somewhere and that\u2019s what this person\u2019s used? How do you keep track
    of that?</em>\r\n\r\nThere are some (although not great) legal protections and
    tweaking anyones font and reselling them is just asking for potential legal problems.
    We have found knockoffs and dealt with them accordingly. Modifying an existing
    font is generally known as a derivative work and is generally not allowed by anyones
    EULA. Keeping track is not easy, but if found, it could be a major problem. I
    have two words for anyone who feels it is OK to take a commercial font and blend
    it with another (or just tweak it a bit) and resell it or give it away: <a href=\"http://www.martinezgroup.com/\">Frank
    Martinez</a>"
  created: '2007-08-13 00:28:21'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> As a font designer - how do you KNOW when somebody is using your fonts
    without paying for them?\r\n\r\nI consider font piracy to be when someone buys
    a font, strips any protection that it might have, even if only the copyright notice,
    and then sells it for free.\r\n\r\nThe practise of cloning the work of others,
    by copying the work of others, is a long established tradition in typography.
    I can remember using English Times and Helios on Compugraphic machines, because
    Linotype owned the names Times Roman and Helvetica. If I recall, the boss even
    listed them with the Linotype names on the font sample sheets.\r\n\r\nIf modifying
    the work of another is not allowed, then we are all in a lot of trouble, because
    the ghost of Claude Garamond will be after us."
  created: '2007-08-13 00:32:31'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>If it\u2019s the difference between paying $1200 for a few fonts or
    downloading them free, other than the fact that you think the foundry is worth
    paying for...what\u2019s the incentive?</cite>\r\n\r\nKeeping the good font designers
    in business. If the guys and House and Hoefler & Frere-Jones have to hang up their
    hats and stop making fonts to pay the bills, what are all the knockoff artists
    going to knockoff?\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>If modifying the work of another is not allowed,
    then we are all in a lot of trouble, because the ghost of Claude Garamond will
    be after us.</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m pretty sure that Claude\u2019s copyrights
    expired a while ago. But for now, those using fonts are (or at least should be)
    bound by the EULA of the font, and if the EULA does not grant a license to modify
    and/or redistribute it, said users should pay up for a license that does. "
  created: '2007-08-13 02:41:50'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>how do you KNOW when somebody is using your fonts without paying for
    them?</cite>\r\nDidn't David Berlow say that if they see a high profile use that
    they know isn't legal they send them a nice, friendly letter thanking them for
    being their newest customer along with an invoice for their \"new font purchase\"?"
  created: '2007-08-13 16:44:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Vectorgirl has the best profession, according to her bio. She must also has
    a great sense of humor. Glad to hear there are designers out there who are honestly
    looking out for type designers.\r\n\r\n ChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-13 21:25:01'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Turns out that FontLab Studio does font blending, check the manual.
  created: '2007-08-14 00:25:02'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "<em>\"Note: the fonts in question had to already be manually converted to
    Chameleon format to make this work, so you couldn\u2019t run it on just any arbitrary
    fonts.</em>\r\nThough the technology was very rich, the product was just about
    compression. There were masters for Roman, Italic and Sans and then each descriptor
    told a style...One could blend Baskerville and Helvetica, sadly, but experiments
    of this nature mostly yield oddly formed Cheltenham. \r\n\r\nMaking descriptors,
    one never had to touch the contours directly, (it sends shivers just to think
    of), one could globally change anything, then manually from a width down to an
    individual curve, edit to the exact likeness of whatever. I wanted to use it for
    optical size descriptors, justification specials and several other really rich
    goodies it offered, but for compression, it also worked.\r\n\r\n<em>\"Turns out
    that FontLab Studio does font blending\"</em>\r\nDifferent, I think. But see what
    you get from a Baskerville and an Helvetica.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-08-14 14:27:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>how do you KNOW when somebody is using your fonts without paying for
    them?</em>\r\n\r\nIf you are a foundry selling through distributors, it's impossible
    to know, because they don't report who bought your fonts.\r\nThe most forthcoming
    of mine provides an email address of the purchaser; they used to give more info,
    but I believe they stopped doing that and adopted the general practice of not
    passing on sales information, so that their suppliers would be unable to form
    lists and market directly, bypassing the retailer.\r\n\r\n(Suppliers may have
    the right to occasionally audit the sales records of distributors, but in practice
    that doesn't happen much.)\r\n\r\nSo in this aspect of font sales, don't blame
    the foundries for secrecy, blame the distributors."
  created: '2007-08-14 16:04:26'
- author:
    name: vectorgirl
  body: "Interesting info - thanks! :^) I've always been fascinated by this but don't
    know any typophiles IRL. Thankfully (or hmm...maybe that's not the right word,
    lol) somehow in my full-time gigs I've wound up with a few already liscenced,
    workable fonts somewhere in the workflow.\r\n\r\nBut then again my target demo
    is still kind of angry about the price of penny candy rising. They're like what,
    35? 40? :p"
  created: '2007-08-15 02:50:05'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: I barely remember penny candy, so they are more geezerish than your estimate.
  created: '2007-08-15 03:18:36'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'just looking at the myfonts web page. it struck me that (for me) their best
    seller list would be more interesting if it were listed by profit in $ instead
    of by # of fonts sold.'
  created: '2007-11-04 11:24:07'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: "<i>By the amount the people have time to comment here and all over typophile
    (really appriciate it, don\u2019t get me wrong), I think they make shit loads
    of money.</i>\r\n\r\nRight, cause noooone of us are freelancers who are light
    on jobs right now. \r\n\r\n\r\nInteresting discussion!  The comparison to the
    fashion industry leaves me really cold, though.  I view it more like: I want a
    bookshelf.   I can buy an Ikea bookshelf, or I can save up money and hire a craftsman
    to build me a beautiful bookshelf.  And there's tons in-between, of course....
    \  And I'm usually only going to be able to buy Ikea.  The other alternative is
    to steal a bookshelf, which is the cheapest alternative, or I could buy a stolen
    one from a pawn shop.  It's just unethical.\r\n\r\nOK, the fashion analogy was
    WAY better, I just loathe the fashion industry and trend-mongering, whereas I
    value craftsmanship.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n---\r\neeblet.com"
  created: '2008-04-17 07:09:49'
date: '2007-08-09 03:17:22'
title: Why is the type design industry so secretive about sales volume?

---
