---
author:
  name: swiss dots
  picture: 111368
body: "Hello all, just a note to let you know that the Helvetica film DVD is now available
  for pre-order. More info here: http://www.helveticafilm.com/shop.html\r\n\r\nThe
  DVD includes 95 minutes of bonus material... we basically edited 41 short interview
  segments, each around two to five minutes long. If you've seen the film, you'll
  have an idea of the format of these. \r\n\r\nWe'll definitely post Quicktimes of
  several of them in the next few weeks... any requests?\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\n-Gary\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<strong>Helvetica
  DVD Bonus Features:</strong>\r\n\r\nMassimo Vignelli: \r\nOn his introduction to
  graphic design\r\nThe 1972 New York Subway map\r\nPost-modernists and the \u201Cflower
  children\u201D\r\n\r\nWim Crouwel: \r\nHis \u201CProposal for a New Alphabet\u201D\r\nPencil
  vs. Mouse\r\nThe audience for good design\r\n\r\nMatthew Carter: \r\nHow technology
  has affected type design\r\nThe Neue Haas Grotesk specimen book\r\nOn the reader\u2019s
  awareness of typefaces\r\n\r\nMike Parker: \r\nOn Helvetica and Jackson Burke\r\n\r\nOtmar
  Hoefer and Bruno Steinert on how they got involved in type\r\n\r\nBruno Steinert
  on Helvetica and the Macintosh\r\n\r\nHermann Zapf:\r\nOn his career\r\nThoughts
  on Helvetica\r\n\t\r\nHoefler and Frere-Jones:\r\nFont stories\r\nTheir specimen
  book collection\r\nThe Gotham project\r\n\r\nErik Spiekermann:\r\nTypomaniac\r\nMy
  favorite letter is\u2026\r\nHis approach to design\r\nOn Arial\u2026\r\n\r\nNeville
  Brody:\r\nThe Face and Arena\r\nThe role of typography in advertising\r\n\r\nMichael
  Bierut: \r\nOn Helvetica and branding\r\n\r\nPaula Scher: \r\nThe \u201Cmean\u201D
  Modernists\r\nTechnology and her design process\r\nOn record cover design\r\n\r\nStefan
  Sagmeister: \r\nOn music packaging\r\nOne typeface is not enough\r\nOn designing
  for an audience\r\n\r\nDavid Carson: \r\nHis approach to design\r\nThoughts on Helvetica\r\n\r\nDanny
  van den Dungen: \r\nThe origin of the name Experimental Jetset\r\nThe relationship
  between designer and subject matter\r\nOn punk rock and Modernism\r\n\r\nMichael
  C. Place: \r\nThe value of good design\r\nOn the public\u2019s awareness of graphic
  design\r\nBrockmann gets in the picture\r\n\r\nNorm: \r\nThe Simple typeface\r\nFavorite
  letters\r\n\r\nRick Poynor: \r\nThe future...\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: "Great news! Just one question though.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"English and German language
    subtitles\"<cite>\r\n\r\nIs that English captions?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-13 16:29:45'
- author:
    name: swiss dots
    picture: 111368
  body: "<cite>Is that English captions?</cite>\r\n\r\nYep."
  created: '2007-08-13 16:50:19'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: </cite></em>I could do without Spiekermann's "Typomaniac" nonsense, but more
    of Stefan Sagmeister and David Carson would be interesting.
  created: '2007-08-13 17:04:58'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Erik Spiekermann:\r\nOn Arial\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nWhy do I get the
    feeling that part had to be cut to keep the movie from ending up PG-13?"
  created: '2007-08-13 17:13:00'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: When will this all be available?
  created: '2007-08-13 17:21:01'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> When will this all be available?</em>\r\n\r\nThe above linked page says
    the release date is November 6."
  created: '2007-08-13 17:43:00'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Nov 6, according to Gary's link.\r\n\r\nI dunno if I want to fork over $75
    for the collectors edition. I'm a type nerd ... but maybe not that much.\r\n\r\nFor
    $20 I will definitely buy the regular version. It would have cost me that much
    to get to Toronto to see if shown there, if I had known it was coming."
  created: '2007-08-13 17:44:50'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>Erik Spiekermann:\r\nOn Arial\u2026</em>\r\n\r\n\"Why do I get the feeling
    that part had to be cut to keep the movie from ending up PG-13?\"\r\n\r\nROFL!
    \ Well, one quick f-word made it into the final cut: when I worked at CBC, you
    were allowed one a year without any sort of retribution, but it had to be in context.
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nPerhaps the Helvetica extras with Herr Spiekermann are rated R!\r\n\r\n(And
    how soon will someone come up with a YouTube video of him rapping it?  Inquiring
    minds....)"
  created: '2007-08-13 17:46:20'
- author:
    name: swiss dots
    picture: 111368
  body: The official street date is November 6th. But folks who order from the film
    website will get theirs shipped a week early.
  created: '2007-08-13 18:07:06'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "HD DVD or Bluray? \r\n\r\nOne of the interesting features of HD DVD is that
    extra sets of subtitles can be downloaded, and that actual OpenType weights of
    the font could be included on the disc for the menus.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2007-08-13 18:38:01'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> I could do without Spiekermann\u2019s \u201CTypomaniac\u201D nonsense,
    but more of Stefan Sagmeister and David Carson would be interesting.\r\n\r\nHmm,
    I beg to differ. Carson's was the only segment that could have been left out of
    an otherwise perfect set of interviews."
  created: '2007-08-13 18:44:03'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">and that actual OpenType weights of the font could be included on the disc
    for the menus.\r\n\r\nShould add \"if properly licensed from Linotype\""
  created: '2007-08-13 18:49:35'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Given how well our dollar is doing these days, I figured I better order now.
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nI'm sure if it shows up here at the specialty vid order store, it's
    going to be a lot more than $32.46 Canadian....."
  created: '2007-08-13 18:51:18'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: 'I can''t find the bug thread, but I wish that a bad /cite wouldn''t have
    to carry over to all successive posts. (hint: Geoff)'
  created: '2007-08-13 19:13:25'
- author:
    name: swiss dots
    picture: 111368
  body: Since the film was shot in hi-def, I'd love to do a Bluray or HD DVD edition...
    it will definitely happen at some point down the line, but probably not till summer
    2008 at the earliest...
  created: '2007-08-13 19:18:11'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "You could always try finding a direct download distributor for an HD version.
    I can\u2019t speak for other type designers, but I have no problems playing HD
    content on my HDTV via my laptop, but I don\u2019t plan on owning an HD-DVD or
    Blu-Ray player any time soon."
  created: '2007-08-13 19:26:22'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: I'd forwarded this http://www.createspace.com/hddvdindie a while back, but
    can certainly understand not wanting to go down this route (ie. mainting control,
    etc.,) esp as it will become increasingly easy to own the means of production
    in the future.
  created: '2007-08-13 19:33:46'
- author:
    name: fnf
  body: "Very excited about this... I pre-ordered my copy this morning.  The geek
    in me would have splurged on the 'deluxe edition' but $20 USD for shipping to
    Canada (over 25% of the cost of the item) is a bit too much.\r\n\r\nGary -- if
    you have a spare moment before the end of the year, care to tally up the audiences
    and give us an idea of how many people saw Helvetica?"
  created: '2007-08-13 20:18:00'
- author:
    name: ybaggar
  body: "I'm particularly interested on Carter, Spiekermann and Norm first for the
    quicktimes... november is not that soon!\r\nThanks"
  created: '2007-08-13 20:36:39'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: The So. Cal. beaches are <strong>very nice</strong> this time of year, if
    you'd like a tax write-off reason for coming back with the expanded version.
  created: '2007-08-13 21:07:51'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Aah, good news! Pre-odered mine already (the cheapo one, though, not sure
    how the local customs will like it, had some bad experiences when buying products
    from the US).\r\nOh, I hope the DVD coding is international, so that one doesn't
    have to change the DVD player's country code."
  created: '2007-08-13 21:25:25'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@Stewf:\r\n\"Hmm, I beg to differ. Carson\u2019s was the only segment that
    could have been left out of an otherwise perfect set of interviews.\"\r\n\r\nCarson
    looking at that set of index cards with words on them was very good, I thought.
    It really showed the opposite end of the spectrum advocated by Wim Crouwel or
    Vignelli, as represented by Helvetica. It was a nice way to show that, yes, Helvetica
    does have it's purpose, but no, it's not for every purpose.\r\n\r\nRemembering
    the post-movie questions at Typecon, it's good to remember that not everyone who
    is going to see the movie is in Spiekermann-lingo a \"Typomaniac\". At least Carson
    wouldn't put the audience to sleep.\r\n\r\nBut that's why the DVD extras will
    be nice, for those of us who actually <em>want</em> to hear the Moderns rambling
    on about the virtues of Helvetica.\r\n\r\nI only wish that there were some mention
    about Univers, which should possibly make it into the extras? "
  created: '2007-08-13 21:40:40'
- author:
    name: ybaggar
  body: ">I only wish that there were some mention about Univers, which should possibly
    make it into the extras?\r\n\r\nYes about that, why isn't there an interview of
    Frutiger also?"
  created: '2007-08-13 22:02:22'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">why isn\u2019t there an interview of Frutiger also?\r\n\r\nThe original
    \"you should have...\" thread\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/27479"
  created: '2007-08-13 22:19:39'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "There is some dispute at present over whether or not what you will get in
    English will be captions, and of what quality, or  \u201Csubtitles\u201D in Arial
    Narrow. \r\n\r\n-- \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2007-08-13 22:41:41'
- author:
    name: ybaggar
  body: ">Only time will tell if it\u2019s better than \u201CCooper Black, behind
    the typeface\u201D or that Frutiger movie. But it looks promising.\r\n\r\nThanks,
    i didn't read that post. Still, it doesn't explain why he is not in the movie..
    Maybe they didn't wanted to make something too much \"swiss\", more international?"
  created: '2007-08-13 23:29:07'
- author:
    name: zzi
    picture: 111985
  body: "I understand that\r\n\"The History of the No 2 Pencil\" will be coming out
    next month."
  created: '2007-08-13 23:34:52'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Maybe they didn\u2019t wanted to make something too much \u201Cswiss\u201D,
    more international?\r\n\r\nI think the key section from the old thread is this
    one... \r\n\r\n\"One of the challenges putting this film together was my desire
    not to make it a standard talking-head film, where dozens of people chime in with
    one quote about the subject...\""
  created: '2007-08-13 23:50:08'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Also, while we all have our pet type topics we would like to see addressed
    on Film the topic was Helvetica not Frutiger or to my disapointment Haas Unica
    - much less Modernist Typography. Gary's suggestion ( as I recall it ) is a good
    one: Make your own type Movie!\r\n\r\nI just ordered my copy. Oh the glee!"
  created: '2007-08-13 23:57:57'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Oooh, I never new that someone did a movie about Frutiger. Now I just have
    to figure out how to get a copy of it. Too bad Amazon.de won\u2019t ship to the
    USA."
  created: '2007-08-13 23:59:30'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "@ joe -\r\n\r\nIt's not like the audience, made up almost entirly of designers
    is blind, Joe. \r\n;P\r\n\r\n\r\n@ zzi -\r\n<a href=http://www.amazon.com/gp/reader/0679734155/ref=sib_dp_pt/002-3591388-0866446#reader-link>The
    Pencil: A History of Design and Circumstance</a>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-14 00:07:05'
- author:
    name: ybaggar
  body: ">\u201COne of the challenges putting this film together was my desire not
    to make it a standard talking-head film, where dozens of people chime in with
    one quote about the subject...\u201D\r\n\r\nI can imagine there was a lot of people
    Gary had to put off the list because of that reason but as a great type designer,
    as the designer of univers and frutiger and also as a swiss type designer who's
    work is making the link beetween the swiss modernism (represented by helvetica)
    and the more \"traditional\" approach of typography, i'm pretty sure Frutiger's
    views would have been more than one quotes among others.\r\n\r\nAnyway i'm sure
    the movie is interesting and i'll get the dvd :)\r\n\r\nps: sorry, my english
    isn't perfect, i hope it doesn't sound too bad."
  created: '2007-08-14 00:13:30'
- author:
    name: zzi
    picture: 111985
  body: russellm   At least someone has a sense of humor.
  created: '2007-08-14 00:17:54'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "\u201COne of the challenges putting this film together was my desire not
    to make it a standard talking-head film, where dozens of people chime in with
    one quote about the subject...\u201D\r\n\r\nBut that's just it. Univers is NOT
    Helvetica. But it came out at the same time, had a similar purpose, was revolutionary
    in the amount of original weights, is arguably subtler, and...\r\n\r\nIs not as
    popular as Helvetica and wasn't even mentioned in the film. \r\n\r\n\r\nThe Modernist
    stuff that was discussed in the film used Univers as much as or more than Univers.\r\n\r\nIt
    deserved at least a passing mention, and only Carter in the Q&A briefly hinted
    at it when he referred to the \"distribution\" of Helvetica, as opposed to Univers',
    as being responsible for its success. "
  created: '2007-08-14 00:18:23'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "@ zzi -\r\nyeah - But that all I got."
  created: '2007-08-14 00:21:03'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "@ zzi -\r\nyeah - But that all I got.\r\n\r\n@ Gary\r\nThanks for the notice.\r\nI
    was hoping to see the DVD released soon.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-14 00:26:46'
- author:
    name: swiss dots
    picture: 111368
  body: "Maybe someone can speak to this further, but I got the sense when I was originally
    contacting people about the film that Frutiger wasn't doing interviews anymore,
    for health reasons... or maybe he's just plain reclusive now. And his nephew did
    do that piece for German television about him a few years back.\r\n\r\nI'll have
    to go back through the extras and check on Univers shout outs. Crouwel discussed
    it, and of course there were mentions of Univers during the other interviews we
    did, but getting into Univers in any sort of in-depth way in the film required
    a lot more back-story, showing examples, how it differs from Helvetica, who Frutiger
    was. There's only so much you can do in 80 minutes, and in order to try to keep
    things focused on Helvetica, we decided not to go down that route. Ditto with
    Arial. \r\n\r\nBut I'm sure there are several examples of Univers in the film
    anyway, on street signs, etc... a few had to have slipped in. So get the pause
    button on your remotes ready...\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\n-Gary\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-14 00:36:44'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Thanks Gary! A reasonable answer, certainly. I'm looking forward to the Director's
    Cut!
  created: '2007-08-14 00:47:53'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "RussellM, a name and initial that seems vaguely familiar in some hard-to-define
    way, blind people don't watch captioning. The question of audio description is
    a different one and I can assure you that visual artworks are described all the
    time (check many U.S. museums). If we can <a href=\"http://joeclark.org/access/cinema/reviews/solaris.html\">describe
    <cite>Solaris</cite></a> we can describe anything.\r\n\r\n-- \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2007-08-14 01:02:01'
- author:
    name: ybaggar
  body: "I often read people that don't like helvetica and oppose univers to it, just
    saying it's so much better. For me, this is the result of a misunderstood of modernism
    and what swiss designers where trying to achieve at this time, and still. There
    has already been a long talk here about helvetica and i don't want to start the
    fight again :)\r\n\r\nWhat is really really interesting  about a Frutiger interview
    is that he could help people to understand what modernism was looking for. For
    me, one of the most interesting thing (i think it's in the movie his son made)
    is the comparison with water. The look for the purity of the form is an essential
    idea in modernism. With helvetica this purity has been sold as neutrality, meaning
    you can use it for anything what, i agree, is wrong. But helvetica and univers
    (and most of frutiger faces) achieve to reach this purity, this \"universality\"
    of the shape, each by different ways. I like both.\r\n\r\nEdit: okay Gary, thanks
    for the explanation. My point was absolutely not to say something was missing
    or incorrect in your movie and i hope you did not feel it this way."
  created: '2007-08-14 01:08:32'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: "joeclark: <cite>There is some dispute at present over whether or not what
    you will get in English will be captions, and of what quality, or \u201Csubtitles\u201D
    in Arial Narrow.</cite>\r\n\r\nHmm, I asked whether it was English captions just
    to make sure it wasn't English language with German subtitles, i.e. subitles only
    when German is spoken but no captions for English dialogue. This happens often
    on foreign films, \"Japanese and English subtitles\" displays only Japanese subtitles.
    Frustrating for those who are deaf or hard of hearing.\r\n\r\nrussellim: <cite>It\u2019s
    not like the audience, made up almost entirly of designers is blind, Joe.</a>\r\n\r\nThere
    are 2 million Australians who are either deaf or hard of hearing out of a population
    of 21 million, we're not exactly a minority market-wise."
  created: '2007-08-14 02:04:46'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "@ Joe + Geoff Riding\r\n\r\n\r\nyes, of course. \r\n\r\n:P I really didn't
    imagine anyone would take that comment seriously enough to offer a thought-out
    reply.\r\n\r\nI was plainly referring to what one might imagine is the demographic
    for this film. I do believe it's most obvious appeal is to people with an active
    interest in visual design, which kind implies a certain lack of serious visual
    impairment - Granted, exceptions exist, but I just went ahead and made a vast
    over-reaching generalization anyhow. And, yes, attention should be paid to the
    design of captioning and subtitles. I thought that here, that would be obvious.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-14 03:23:12'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>Oh, I hope the DVD coding is international, so that one doesn\u2019t
    have to change the DVD player\u2019s country code.</em>\r\n\r\nOn the site it
    says 'NTSC Region 0', which is International. :)"
  created: '2007-08-14 04:10:32'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: Thanks Quincunx, for clearing it for me. I'm not that clever with the tech
    text, so I missed that :^P
  created: '2007-08-14 07:53:15'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Since the accessibility issue has taken a life of its own even without me,
    I thought I\u2019d write a <a href=\"http://blog.fawny.org/2007/08/14/helvetifesto/\"><cite>Helvetica</cite>
    accessibility manifesto</a>, though I wonder why I had to.\r\n\r\n\u2014\r\nJoe
    Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2007-08-14 18:09:03'
- author:
    name: swiss dots
    picture: 111368
  body: "Wow... Joe, I truly appreciate your opinions on this, but the tone of your
    manifesto is really disappointing. You're basically venting on the entire home
    video industry's approach (or lack thereof) to accessibility, and focusing it
    on me and this film. When I said I'd discuss DVD accessibility with you when I
    met you at the Toronto screening, I meant excactly that, that we'd discuss it,
    that I wanted your input. But I refuse to feel that if I can't incorporate every
    single one of your \"suggestions,\" then I'm irresponsible and uncaring.\r\n\r\nIn
    the manifesto you've woven in comments and attitudes from other people, not me,
    including some quotes from others in this thread. Again, you're venting on others
    here, but blurring it and transferring it to me. Every time you use the term \"you,\"
    you're accusing <cite>me</cite> of something... like I've been oppressing deaf
    and blind people for decades??? Jesus, I just made a little film about Helvetica.
    C'mon, Joe. I know your heart is in the place on these issues, but I don't like
    getting publicly attacked for things I haven't done, and for opinions that aren't
    mine.  \r\n\r\nThe plan has <cite>always</cite> been to have subtitles on the
    disc, and I'll do the best I can to take your suggestions into account regarding
    their quality and legibility. And I guess I forgot to mention in the email I sent
    you that I personally transcribed the film for the subtitles, so there won't be
    any spelling errors. I'll make the DVD as accessible as I can, given the budget
    and time constraints that any independent film producer is always under. And on
    that front, are there any documentaries on DVD, self-released by independent producers,
    that have adhered to every one of the requirements of the Clark Manifesto?\r\n\r\nAgain,
    I think your heart's in the right place here, Joe. But blaming me publicly, with
    the tone you've taken, for all the frustrations of disabled people when it comes
    to enjoying films is misplaced. \r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\n-Gary\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-14 20:23:04'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "DanGayle wrote\r\n\"At least Carson wouldn\u2019t put the audience to sleep.\"\r\n\r\nThe
    last thing Spiekermann could ever be accused of is putting people to sleep!"
  created: '2007-08-15 01:08:42'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I should have separated my comment about Carson from my comment about Spiekermann.
    I noticed it afterward, but I was hoping that no one would notice ;)\r\n\r\nSo
    yeah, you're right. Spiekermann's interview was thoroughly entertaining in its
    irreverence for the subject matter. Audiences should certainly like him, as well
    as Carson, if only because they don't represent that cool, detached modernism
    of most of the rest of the flic."
  created: '2007-08-15 01:40:51'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "<em> Wow... Joe, I truly appreciate your opinions on this, but the tone of
    your manifesto is really disappointing </em>\r\n\r\nDanger. Do not feed or starve
    Joe Troll. Danger. Do not crit his content. Danger. Your web site could be attacked
    if you engage. Danger. Do not discuss typography. Danger. \r\n\r\nChores!"
  created: '2007-08-15 11:51:05'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: David- Too right.
  created: '2007-08-15 23:10:46'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Sometimes people who have some challenge end up with a chip on their shoulder.
    \r\n\r\nI use to have a mild case of it before Adobe started making an equivalent
    version of Photoshop for PC (some of you youngsters might not remember this. I
    think it was around version 3?). \r\n\r\nJust because I was handicapped by Windows
    95, was that any reason to heap it on? I submit that it was not, and thankfully
    Adobe finally realized it. \r\n\r\nAnd it's just a guess, but I bet they are selling
    as many PC versions as Mac now.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-16 00:05:48'
date: '2007-08-13 16:18:22'
node_type: forum
title: 'Helvetica: the DVD'

---
