---
author:
  name: Dan Gayle
  picture: 111595
body: "In the [[http://www.typophile.com/node/36001|As complete and \"safe\" as Helvetica]]
  thread, we're discussing [[Futura]] and its use/misuse and the possibility of using
  [[Adrian Frutiger]]'s [[Avenir]] as a replacement.\r\n\r\nWhat other geometric sans
  would fit into the Futura/Avenir geometric sans category, and what do you see at
  the pros/cons in their usage?"
comments:
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Hypatia; it''s new, it''s proportions are more like Futura''s but it has
    more warmth, and it has a large character set and range of weights. No cons as
    yet. '
  created: '2007-08-13 21:39:24'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Most folks overlook <a href="http://www.fontshop.com/search/?q=FF%20Super%20Grotesk">FF
    Super Grotesk</a> assuming it's another Futura, but closer inspection reveals
    a few grotesque hints, including the alternate 'a' and 'g' found in <a href="http://www.fontshop.com/search/?q=FF+Super+Grotesk+B+purchase">FF
    Super Grotesk B</a>. The family can be seen in use at <a href="http://www.bornmagazine.org/mother.html">Born
    Magazine</a>.
  created: '2007-08-13 21:44:07'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I like Hypatia, but would prefer to see the variants as different fonts altogether
    rather than as Stylistic Sets because I rather prefer the variants over the default.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-13 21:44:29'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: You don't use Adobe CS, Dan?
  created: '2007-08-13 22:02:35'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: I do, but I also use Textedit a lot for random junk.
  created: '2007-08-13 22:45:56'
- author:
    name: mr smith
    picture: 111553
  body: Stephen, you're so right. I use and adore Super Grotesk for the cover of a
    fashion magazine. But it has some limitations, and for the inside of the book,
    I found I needed to substitute the beautiful Verlag by H&F-J (check its 2 Gs and
    Ms)!
  created: '2007-08-13 23:33:59'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Dan - TextEdit can handle Stylistic Sets just fine.\r\n\r\nmr smith - Show
    me!"
  created: '2007-08-14 00:14:14'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@Stewf\r\nHoly crap, you're right. Cool. Dammit, I gotta repeat that TextEdit
    is the most useful program on a Mac. Period.\r\n\r\n@Original Question\r\nCentury
    Gothic and Avant Garde have some of the outward trappings of Futura, but something
    is really missing. Anyone know what it is? Particularly Century Gothic. Something
    just seems, I dunno, cheap about it. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-14 00:26:42'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Century Gothic is to Avant Garde as Arial is to Helvetica.
  created: '2007-08-14 00:34:49'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Aha! That's it. For such a widely distributed typeface, you'd think you'd
    see it in more places.
  created: '2007-08-14 00:49:29'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Too ugly. Unfortunately, it did turn up in <a href="http://currentconfig.com/archives/000229.html">Casino
    Royale</a>.
  created: '2007-08-14 00:50:42'
- author:
    name: lapiak
    picture: 111789
  body: '[[http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Nobel|Nobel]] from Font Bureau is nice.'
  created: '2007-08-14 01:30:34'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: '[[http://www.terminaldesign.com/fonts/sets/?CID=10|Tangent]]'
  created: '2007-08-14 03:05:53'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Verlag, Gotham, Geometric 415 (aka Metro Black)\r\n\r\nThat Tangent is pretty."
  created: '2007-08-14 03:25:08'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Century Gothic and Avant Garde have some of the outward trappings of
    Futura, but something is really missing. Anyone know what it is? Particularly
    Century Gothic. Something just seems, I dunno, cheap about it.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    just stay away from Century Gothic. As for Avant Garde, it would have been just
    fine as a one weight display face, as a text face it\u2019s right up there with
    Helvetica."
  created: '2007-08-14 03:29:18'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@terminaldesign\r\n\r\nDid you redesign your website? Very nice. And Tangent
    looks nice. Care to elaborate on some of the details and/or relationships to other
    geometrics?\r\n\r\n@James\r\n\r\nIt seems like a cheap knock-off that you could
    download from 2002 Free Fonts."
  created: '2007-08-14 03:44:03'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "FF Super Grotesk in <em>The Weekend Australian Magazine</em>:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/super1_5296.jpg]"
  created: '2007-08-14 10:48:25'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "DanGayle,\r\n\r\nYes our website has been redesigned. Our good friends at
    adcStudio did it. They also did our ClearviewHwy site. As to details and relationships,
    hard to say really. I just drew a geometric sans that I liked. Charles Nix, the
    book/graphic/type designer, uses it a lot and he describes it as \"taut\".\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2007-08-14 16:46:37'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<em>I just drew a geometric sans that I liked.</em>\r\nI wish more type designers
    would do that. I think it would add more life to their designs. Rather than trying
    to knock off someone else's design, ALA Century Gothic.\r\n\r\n@Stewf\r\nI like
    the look of FF Super Grotesk. Someday if I need a really fatty geometric, I'll
    probably go that way.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-14 17:03:12'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Ooh, the g in Super Grotesk is super nice. Give me something with flavor.
    There's always <a href="http://www.typography.com/catalog/gotham/index.html">Gotham</a>
    (same designer as Nobel with more polish). Gotham is in danger of becoming like
    water... (which tends to happen when people like Yahoo! adopt it). It's everywhere.
    Then again, if you're looking at geometric sans that just might be your aim...
  created: '2007-08-14 18:18:16'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Century Gothic has an interesting history. Originally, there was Futura (1927).
    Then there was Twentieth Century (1937-47), which was Lanston Monotype's knockoff
    of Futura.\r\n\r\nFast-forward to the early 1990s, and Monotype was trying to
    provide widths-identical and design-similar versions of the PostScript \"base
    35 fonts\" including Avant Garde. So they refit and redesigned Twentieth Century
    to more closely match the Avant Garde widths and general look, and got Century
    Gothic.\r\n\r\nSo you've got a clone of one thing turned into an imitation of
    something else. Now *that's* derivative!\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-08-15 20:57:30'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "My fave geometric sans these days is Mark Simonson's Proxima Nova, which
    I'm about to deploy in a magazine redesign.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/mark_simonson/proxima_nova_ot/"
  created: '2007-08-15 21:04:26'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Depending upon how far I need the knob turned up I like: \r\nGotham\r\nNeutraface\r\nHypatia
    Sans Pro\r\nP22 Underground (Although I haven't used it myself)\r\nAgenda (Although
    almost Humanist)\r\nAvenir \r\nFutura Maxi (Although a little childlike)\r\nChalet\r\nLocator
    (Although I haven't used it myself)\r\n\r\nJames: Tangent looks very nice and
    I can see why Charles Nix would like it so much. He's a Dwiggins nut (like myself)
    and has some of the same nuances that Metro has.\r\n\r\nEdit: For a new typeface,
    I've used Hypatia in a small travel pamphlet and really liked how it worked, but
    I did use some of the stylistic sets. "
  created: '2007-08-15 21:27:26'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: But Tiff, you're cheating. A lot of those aren't geometric at all!
  created: '2007-08-15 21:38:43'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Ok, maybe just Agenda and Locator, which are indeed humanist.
  created: '2007-08-15 21:39:38'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: P22 Underground is geometric? I thought that was the definition of an English
    humanist face? Can you have a geometric humanist face?
  created: '2007-08-16 03:06:08'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Can you have a geometric humanist face?</em>\r\n\r\nI thought that's
    what Mark Simonson was trying to do with Proxima Nova, but i could be misinformed....
    Mark?\r\n\r\nfrom Mark's site: \"Proxima Nova straddles the gap between typefaces
    like Futura and Akzidenz Grotesk. The result is a hybrid combining humanistic
    proportions with a somewhat geometric appearance.\"\r\n\r\ni've been looking at
    the London Underground face a lot recently and although it may be considered the
    grandfather of humanistic sanserifs, there is quite a bit of geometry involved,
    especially in the caps, but it's also evident in the the lowercase as well."
  created: '2007-08-16 04:15:42'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "So this style would include humanist proportions of width and x-height to
    cap height, but with a geometric constuction? I guess that makes sense, since
    a lot of those old typefaces were geometrically constructed.\r\n\r\n@Paul\r\nCan
    you comment at all about LTC Twentieth Century Medium? The [[http://www.p22.com/lanston/products/twentiethcen.html|LTC
    website]] says this: \r\n\r\n\"Saul Hess\u2019 redrawing of Futura is so close
    that this new digital revival includes alternates of the long lost original letterforms\"\r\n\r\nIs
    there anything more to it, and could you add a little to what Thomas said about
    Century Gothic? Were there any quirks added that might be of interest?"
  created: '2007-08-16 05:41:34'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Regarding Underground\u2026\r\n\r\nit, Gill Sans, and even Metro are often
    grouped into the humanist sans serif category. For me, they stradle the humanist
    and geometric divide, although at that time there was no such divide. Humanist
    sans serifs really come about much later, in the post-war period\u2026 maybe really
    only in the 1970s. I think that Underground, Gill Sans, and Metro can easily be
    classified as geometric. Sure, they aren't Futura, but it really depends which
    letters you use for comparison. As Paul noted, the caps are very geometric, or
    at least similar to Futura. And then remember that Gill Sans lowercase g!\r\n\r\nWhat
    these sans serif type have in common is they are not grotesks (or grotesques,
    or gothics, or whatever name you prefer)."
  created: '2007-08-16 09:05:39'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "If you don't mind sleeping in your car for a month...\r\n\r\nDTL Nobel\r\n\r\nIt's
    beautiful and I'm pretty sure it was used as the headline sans in the \"French
    Women Don't Get Fat\" book (which is wonderfully set)\r\n\r\nBut most humanoids
    can't afford it.\r\n\r\nMikey :o)"
  created: '2007-08-16 10:33:33'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I love DTL Nobel.\r\n\r\nI also love Jaguars and caviar and Comme des Garcons
    clothing and would love to fly first class every time and live in a loft in Tribeca.
    \r\n\r\nFont Bureau's Nobel is also beautiful but just as pricey."
  created: '2007-08-16 14:02:29'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite>\"Font Bureau\u2019s Nobel is also beautiful but just as pricey.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nWait
    a minute. FB's fonts are admittedly a bit more than some of today's common fare,
    but they are not \"just as pricey\" as DTL.\r\n\r\nUnless I'm reading the DTL
    website wrong (it's awfully hard to navigate), the full offering of DTL Nobel
    is $939.19 USD (700 Euro) for 7 fonts.\r\n\r\nThe same complement of 7 fonts of
    FB's Nobel would be $210 ($30 per font). \r\n\r\nGranted, by some standards, I
    suppose that might be considered \"pricey.\" But DTL is in a whole 'nother league.\r\n\r\nSome
    may call me an FB apologist, but I thought we should set the record straight.\r\n\r\n--
    K.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-16 15:33:44'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "You're right, sorry Kent. I should have said \"also pricey\". \r\n\r\nI bought
    Verlag (10 weights for $200) instead because it's quite similar but better value."
  created: '2007-08-16 15:49:36'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "\"<em>As Paul noted, the caps are very geometric, or at least similar to
    Futura.</em>\"\r\n\r\nAll those geometric and geometric-ish sans look virtually
    identical in all caps. Less room for variation, I suppose? The LC is where the
    personality really shines.\r\n\r\nI just brought Gotham into my life in a big
    way, so I have to like it (and I do, fortunately). I have a <a href=\"http://typographica.org/000969.php\">public
    fondness</a> for Avenir that has yet to fade. I tend to like my geometric sans
    less funky and more 'period', which I realize is a fuzzy (and perhaps erroneous)
    distinction. Some faces, like <a href=\"http://www.adobe.com/type/browser/landing/hypatia/hypatia.html\">Phinney's
    Hypatia</a> and <a href=\"http://emigre.com/EF.php?fid=197\">Barnbrook's Priori</a>
    are less to my taste (though I appreciate their quality), whereas Neutraface,
    Gotham, and Verlag are more my thing. I'd come up with more examples, but I've
    got to get back to my work.  :)"
  created: '2007-08-16 15:55:31'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>I thought that\u2019s what Mark Simonson was trying to do with Proxima
    Nova, but i could be misinformed.... Mark?\r\n\r\nfrom Mark\u2019s site: \u201CProxima
    Nova straddles the gap between typefaces like Futura and Akzidenz Grotesk. The
    result is a hybrid combining humanistic proportions with a somewhat geometric
    appearance.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nMy use of the term \"humanistic proportions\" is
    probably a bit dated. It comes from the book \"Type\" by David Gates wherein he
    describes two different approaches to determining the proportions of a typeface:
    Humanistic, based on a tall oval/rectangle, in which the letters have the appearance
    of having similar widths; and Old Style, based on the circle and square, in which
    the letters may have very different widths, depending on whether they are constructed
    from two small circles/squares stacked vertically or one large circle/square.
    Akzidenz Grotesk and Futura are good sans serif examples of each of these two
    approaches respectively.\r\n\r\nWith Proxima Sans (and Nova), I tried to use \"humanist\"
    proportions as much as possible, except for the really round letters, such as
    the O, C, o, e, etc., and even these are slightly narrowed.\r\n\r\nNowadays, the
    term \"humanist\" is usually used a bit differently than the way Gates used it
    and carries more baggage than just proportion. \"Modern\" might have been a better
    choice of a word, though that also has other connotations."
  created: '2007-08-16 16:42:23'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Monotype once made a few sorts for Gill that mimicked the more geometric
    forms of Futura. When the 3-5 lc letters and 2-4 caps were substituted (precursor
    to stylistic sets!), it did give a much more geometric feel. A lot of that, in
    Gill, is the caps. O, G, C, etc. aren't that different from Futura. The design
    is pretty geometric and monoline for a humanist sans.\r\n\r\nOne other way to
    see this is that the proportions of Futura do actually follow the Renaissance
    model; long ascenders, small x-height, generous and proportional caps. In that
    sense, Futura is the most humanistic \"geometric\" sans. \r\n\r\nMetro straddles
    that line even more; it has some flexion and taper, sheared terminals etc. but
    a lot of that low-contrast roundness. It can also be disguised with a couple alternates
    as \"geometric,\" and I think it was. "
  created: '2007-08-16 17:10:30'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Can you comment at all about LTC Twentieth Century Medium?</em>\r\nI
    think the page you linked to says it all.\r\n\r\n<em>Is there anything more to
    it, and could you add a little to what Thomas said about Century Gothic?</em>\r\n\r\nHere's
    the description directly from the font file:\r\n\r\nA design based on Monotype
    20th Century, which was drawn by Sol Hess between 1936 and 1947. Century Gothic
    maintains the basic design of 20th Century but has an enlarged 'x' height and
    has been modified to ensure satisfactory output from modern digital systems. The
    design is influenced by the geometric style sans serif faces which were popular
    during the 1920's and 30's. Useful for headlines and general display work and
    for small quantities of text, particularly in advertising.\r\n\r\nSee also: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Century_Gothic\r\n\r\nalso,
    i should have said that any sanserif with linear strokes (simple lines) is bound
    to follow a geometric construction to some extent."
  created: '2007-08-16 17:12:03'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<em>I think the page you linked to says it all.</em>\r\nThat's funny, because
    there was a guy here on Typophile who said who couldn't stand Futura, but loved
    20th Cent. I haven't compared the faces directly myself, but if what is said about
    Hess' drawings is correct... :)\r\n\r\n<em>Here\u2019s the description directly
    from the font file:</em>\r\nNo mention of Avant Garde at all, eh?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-16 18:06:26'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@Crossgrove\r\nDo you happen to know if any of those sorts are available
    as alternates in digital form? Because that would be super cool.\r\n\r\n\r\nAnother
    typeface that might fit the bill is Stempels' Neuzit S. It has  that outward \"Geometric\"
    look, but according to Adobe:\r\n\r\n\"Neuzeit S is a geometric-grotesque hybrid
    design, unusual in that round shapes are wide and circular, while other characters
    appear slightly condensed. Also note the unusual J: this particular letter\u2019s
    design is versal in origin.\"\r\n\r\nThat sounds like it was written by Thomas
    Phinney. I can totally imagine him saying that."
  created: '2007-08-16 18:24:18'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: I am a big fan of <a href="http://www.fontshop.com/fontfeed/archives/helvetica-and-alternatives-to-helvetica/">Neuzeit
    S</a>. Sadly, only two weights. Someone should revive that puppy and expand the
    fam.
  created: '2007-08-16 20:38:03'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Dan: Nope, that was written and on our web site long before I started at
    Adobe in 1997. I think E.M. Ginger did those original font blurbs, if I remember
    what David Lemon has said correctly.\r\n\r\nMark S: \"My use of the term \u201Chumanistic
    proportions\u201D is probably a bit dated. It comes from the book \u201CType\u201D
    by David Gates wherein he describes two different approaches to determining the
    proportions of a typeface: Humanistic, based on a tall oval/rectangle, in which
    the letters have the appearance of having similar widths; and Old Style, based
    on the circle and square, in which the letters may have very different widths,
    depending on whether they are constructed from two small circles/squares stacked
    vertically or one large circle/square.\"\r\n\r\nReally? That's weird to me - Gates
    considers oldstyle to *not* be humanist, and thinks Helvetica *is* humanist? To
    me \"humanist\" proportions are a synonym for what Gates calls \"oldstyle.\"  Other
    sources I've seen dealing with proportion such as the PANOSE system call the proportions
    based on a tall oval/rectangle \"modern\" rather than \"humanist,\" and that is
    the lingo I've adopted as well.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-08-16 21:26:55'
- author:
    name: abi
    picture: 111936
  body: "Recently I've quite liked Jigsaw by Johanna Bi\u013Eak, a friend of mine
    has been using it here and there to great effect.\r\n\r\n( http://www.typotheque.com/jigsaw/
    )"
  created: '2007-08-17 17:37:29'
- author:
    name: guacamowa
    picture: 112974
  body: Eurostyle is quite nice.
  created: '2007-08-17 21:32:00'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>Really? That\u2019s weird to me - Gates considers oldstyle to *not* be
    humanist, and thinks Helvetica *is* humanist? To me \u201Chumanist\u201D proportions
    are a synonym for what Gates calls \u201Coldstyle.\u201D Other sources I\u2019ve
    seen dealing with proportion such as the PANOSE system call the proportions based
    on a tall oval/rectangle \u201Cmodern\u201D rather than \u201Chumanist,\u201D
    and that is the lingo I\u2019ve adopted as well.</em>\r\n\r\nGood grief. Now that
    I check the Gates book, I see that I remembered it wrong. He doesn't mention \"humanist\"
    at all in the way I had remembered. He just uses the terms \"even width\" or \"modern.\"
    I have no idea where I picked that up now. It was what I was thinking when creating
    Proxima Sans/Nova, but the correct term describing the proportions should be \"modern\"
    or \"even width.\" I'll fix that in my marketing materials to avoid further confusion.
    Funny how you get a certain \"fact\" fixed in your head and don't realize it's
    incorrect until years later, when on hindsight it's so clearly wrong."
  created: '2007-08-22 17:17:17'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Although an old thread, Graphik should be mentioned.
  created: '2009-06-09 23:02:27'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "Prelude\r\nhttp://www.fontbureau.com/news/2009-06-10"
  created: '2009-06-10 20:40:58'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: 'Effra: http://www.daltonmaag.com/browse/fonts/dama/effra'
  created: '2009-08-14 23:04:19'
date: '2007-08-13 21:29:44'
title: Favorite Geometric Sans like Futura/Avenir

---
