---
author:
  name: dezcom
  picture: 109959
body: "I designed a poster in 2 variations. One is tamer than the other and I wonder
  if the second one is too much or if it helps.\r\n\r\nHere is the plain one:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AnimalsPlainSm_4720.png]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Here is the more in your face version:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AnimalsSm_4381.png]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-15 01:52:54'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "The second one is for SE, right?  It's already got the bullet holes....\r\n\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nSo
    what's the campaign (or purpose) for these, Chris?  And why the bullet holes?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-15 01:58:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I was hoping it would be self-explanitory.\r\nBe fore I tell you what it
    is about, I wonder if you would tell me what you think it is about?\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS:
    What is \"SE\"?"
  created: '2007-08-15 02:06:17'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> PS: What is \u201CSE\u201D?\r\n\r\nScottish Enterprise\r\n\r\n:^)"
  created: '2007-08-15 02:51:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "David,\r\nI must really be dense, I still don't get it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-15 03:12:20'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: South East DC?  :-)
  created: '2007-08-15 03:37:56'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Hey Chris, it took me a while to see the entire images, because I only see
    one part at a time (top or bottom two-thirds), but now that I have, here's my
    2 cents'...\r\n\r\nThe fact that you have just one star makes it subtle. Was there
    a reason you moved the star from the white field to the red, besides making room
    for the text?\r\n\r\nI don't know if the green I see on my monitor is the one
    that will be used in print, but what I see now does not contrast well with the
    red background... The green should be darker, perhaps.\r\n\r\nThe typeface (is
    it yours? it looks like the one from your recent t-shirt!) looks a bit too friendly
    for an anti-war message. I would use something that looks rougher, and that way
    avoid having to use bullet holes."
  created: '2007-08-15 03:48:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Ricardo,\r\nThe star was purposely moved out of place to show an ambiguity
    or foreignness of not belonging there. Both the American flag and the Iraqi flag
    have stars so I wanted to show the duality. Iraqi star becomes American star in
    a bait and switch (and a bit Texas lone-star).\r\nRegarding the green on red--this
    is a juxtaposition of complimentary colors which is purposely bothersome. It is
    readable enough but not comfortable to see (like the war).\r\nYes, the typefaces
    are mine. The wider one is \"Fat Squeeze\"; the one with the bullet holes is \"Squeeze
    Trigger\"; the taller one at bottom is \"Tight Squeeze\"; and the light small
    caps are \"Now Sans Light.\"\r\nI didn't want to be too grungy with the type.
    I wanted it to be more clinical. More like a bunch of fat-cat oil and defense
    mega-corporations silently profiting (getting fat) from the war.\r\nIt is meant
    to be subtle and require some thought. Getting into and out of war requires some
    thought.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-15 04:17:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "What is going to be the context in which the poster is seen? \r\n\r\nThe
    type is gorgeous, but I'm having a hard time figuring out how will this be seen. "
  created: '2007-08-15 04:23:06'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I know it would spoil the lyric, but the text would make more sense if it
    said \u201CWe gotta get out of that place.\u201D \r\n\r\nIt\u2019s definitely
    better without the bullet holes, tho. Those could be misinterpreted as pretty
    tasteless, especially by people who don\u2019t know anything about the guy who
    designed the poster."
  created: '2007-08-15 04:35:19'
- author:
    name: fallenartist
    picture: 111868
  body: "Shouldn't the star be white? The star is obviously leaving the flag, so the
    one should leave is American, not Iraqi one. I second James' \"that\" instead
    of \"this\" as at first glance I read this as \"this planet\". Also to be consistent
    with colours I'd try to make \"We gotta get out\" white and \"that place\" green.\r\n\r\n_______\r\n
    AL\r\n<a href=http://www.lenart.pl>lenart.pl</a>"
  created: '2007-08-15 11:10:34'
- author:
    name: ybaggar
  body: 'Because i''m not really aware of the iraqi flag, i was thinking it was something
    about palestine: [img:sites/default/files/old-images/palestinian_flag_5266.jpg.w300h198.jpg]'
  created: '2007-08-15 14:27:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "X-Y,\r\nHere is the Iraqi flag:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/iqlarge_4987.gif]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-15 14:47:10'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "A landscape format would improve the recognition of the flag. Not too sure
    of the placement of the type in relation to the horizons of the flag, the line
    \u2018if it\u2019s the last thing we ever do\u2019 and the animals line seem redundant
    to me, if one recognises the song reference one knows the next line but including
    it doesn\u2019t reinforce the message and the animals line is bizarre if one doesn\u2019t
    know the song.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-08-15 15:11:48'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Red and green and a star look a bit christmassy to me. Maybe try going with
    a more military-looking green?\r\n\r\nI got the sense of the poster but didn't
    get right away that it was the Iraqi flag - maybe horizontal is the way to go.\r\n\r\nI
    think the last line needs more punch too - and drop the cap W - doesn't do anything
    for it.\r\n\r\nKudos for doing this."
  created: '2007-08-15 15:29:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks everyone. My original idea was using white type on top. I'll revisit
    the star, perhaps distressed? Back to the drawing board.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS:
    Thanks, Patty. There isn't much I can do to help until November '08."
  created: '2007-08-15 15:39:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Regarding the song.\r\n\r\nWe used to sing it while we were in Viet Nam.
    We have not learned much since then. The connection of the two wars is very important
    to me. The words are over the flag so \"this place\" fits to me.  \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-15 15:43:23'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Ok, I got the flag thing immediately before reading the posts but! I had
    a moment of hesitation as well between Iraq and Palestine (and another one but
    I won't tell which one, because I was completely wrong about the colours) sooooo,
    once I got the Iraq conection, the text really did the rest. \r\n\r\nI thought
    I'm not sure you needed the \"if it's the last thing thing we ever do\". Then
    I read Tim's posts about the song. I don't know anything about the song but that's
    my cultural references. The poster is obviously directed at Americans so if they
    all know the song, brilliant.\r\n\r\nNot sure about the bullets either, too Far
    West? When I think about war I think about bombs, not bullets.\r\nDidn't get the
    star leaving the flag either. I just thought it was an odd position in relation
    to the text. Having said that, the whole thing is very interesting."
  created: '2007-08-15 17:40:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Here is a redesign. I removed the gunshots and created an \"o\" glyph with
    a centered star. The centered star in a circle is typical American military symbol
    on planes and tanks, perhaps a better fit for Lore's comments. \r\nI took out
    the second line of the song and made a horizontal oriantation to the exact proportions
    of the flag.\r\n\r\nSee what you think.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AnimalsPlainHzSm_6159.png]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-15 18:24:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Now that I look at it, perhaps the text should be flush right to suggest
    moving out.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-15 18:27:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Now it's clearer--though I don't think many Americans know the Iraqi flag--I
    didn't. A design with the  actual flag including the Arabic would solve this,
    but it might be too messy.  \r\n\r\nI think it would be stronger without the 'we
    are the animals' stuff, and including the 'if its the last thing we ever do' that
    you had before. That phrase resonates for those of us who remember the song, and
    is more forceful. \r\n\r\nAnd the layout needs work, whereas your original worked
    well as a design. Now the amount of red at the top makes the lines look unbalanced.
    \ "
  created: '2007-08-15 18:39:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Here is the flush right version.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AnimalsHzSm2_3999.png]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-15 18:58:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The unbalance does not bother me, William. I would rather it feel out of
    place than too comfortable as if it all belonged there for eternity. The flush
    right helps that notion but you may be right about swapping the last line of text,
    I'll give it a try.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-15 19:05:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Here is the text change and a minor tweak to the line spacing. To me, the
    shorter last line helps push the text out and improves the asymmetry.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AnimalsHzSm3_3905.png]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-15 19:24:00'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 'That''s looking really good. Do you really need the period at the end? '
  created: '2007-08-15 19:26:28'
- author:
    name: "Kellie Str\xF8m"
    picture: 111448
  body: I read this first as being some wildlife or ecology issue. I find the animals
    line wery weird. Is the suggestion that Americans and Iraqis are different species?
    That would seem very unsound thinking. If the implication is that Americans are
    the only side in the conflict foreign to Iraq, that of course would be grossly
    misleading.
  created: '2007-08-15 19:26:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I like your last one. I don't mind unbalance if it serves a purpose, as it
    does here. Would it be stronger with the last line in the 'tight squeeze' version
    of your face, as in the first design?\r\n\r\nThis is a terrific titling face. "
  created: '2007-08-15 19:41:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Patty,\r\nThanks! \r\nI just thought the period added finality, \"if it's
    the last thing we ever do[period]\"\r\n\r\nKellie, You may have cross-posted and
    not seen the last image.  I took the \"Animals\" line out because I think it (as
    you said) can cause an ecology image. \"The Animals\" is the name of the 60s rock
    group who wrote the song (they are from the UK, by the way).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-15 19:42:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "William,\r\nI tried Tight Squeeze and it was not enough of a contrast for
    me. I like the shout followed by a whisper.\r\nThanks for the compliment though!
    I hope to have the Squeeze set on the market in a few months.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-15 19:46:50'
- author:
    name: "Kellie Str\xF8m"
    picture: 111448
  body: "I guess I'm a slow typist, not that you'd know it from the mistakes. \"Wery
    weird\" indeed.\r\n\r\nI find the new sentiment easier to agree with, though I
    guess we would strongly disagree on the things to be done before \"the last thing
    we ever do.\""
  created: '2007-08-15 20:17:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There are many things to be done before the \"Last Thing\" but I hope \"This
    Could Be the Last Time\" we invade a country without provocation. This is probably
    not the proper venue to discuss such things though so I will try to stick with
    type and design here.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-15 20:27:50'
- author:
    name: chn
    picture: 109857
  body: "Chris,\r\nI think the flag effect would look even better if you drop that
    green star in \"gotta\" and make the counter of the g in \"get\" a white star.
    This way it has the same configuration as the iraqui flag with the 3 aligned stars.
    Also, I would make \"this place\" white for the same reason."
  created: '2007-08-15 20:46:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Chn,\r\nThanks for your comments. The point of the top star in \"gotta\"
    is to be out of place and the 2 stars only in the 2nd line shows something missing
    or un-whole. The eye/mind desperately wants to correct this by taking the green
    star away and putting it back where it belongs, with the other two stars. This
    is the effect I am after--take something out (foreign military forces) and give
    back the whole to the native Iraqis. It is meant to feel uncomfortable and foreign.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    changing the last line to white--I tried that before and got a very wrong semantic
    from the word groupings. \"Get out of this place\" needs to be the same color
    to read properly.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-15 21:45:09'
- author:
    name: Artform
    picture: 112802
  body: "The Arabic on the flag is \"Ya Allah, Ya Kabeer\" which means \"Oh God, oh
    great one.\"\r\n\r\nI saw your poster and immediately knew it was for Iraq. When
    Canada sent soldiers to Afganistan, I saw these amazing postcards. It was the
    Canadian flag, except there was spattered blood instead of a maple leaf.\r\n\r\nI
    think the stars are necessary to differentiate the flag from the Palestinian.
    I think the poster works for both countries in terms of land being occupied or
    controlled by expatriates.\r\n\r\nI think \"We are the animals who are out of
    our habitat\" works best on the poster. Rather then green text on black, try white.
    This makes the middle the only part with green... just like the Iraqi flag. For
    more emphasis, stars should also only appear at the middle of the flag.\r\n\r\nHope
    that helps,\r\nAhmed\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-15 21:47:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, Ahmed. We must have crossed our posts. I hope my previous post helps
    explain a bit more.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-15 22:00:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I like Chris' idea about the stars.
  created: '2007-08-15 22:57:36'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Chris, I really like the new version a lot (stars as counters very effective!),
    and agree with William that the last line of text should be the rest of the lyric.
    I am showing my age by saying this, but the first time I heard <a href="http://www.google.com/musicsearch?id=GU7zs5ecl7"><strong>this
    song</strong></a>, it was a cover version done by Blue Oyster Cult on one of their
    live albums -- I only heard the Animals version much later.
  created: '2007-08-16 02:57:55'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "Brilliant concept Chris!\r\n\r\nThe bullet holes, they use a crescent shape,
    and therefore have a direct reference to the crescent moon and star which is seen
    throughout the muslim community.\r\nI like the horizontal format although I got
    the vertical format immediately. The triangle of the three stars forms two groups
    of words. One group which reads 'We get this place', and the other group reads
    'gotta out of'. Which in my mind, echoes the crescent moon and star, in a sorta
    kinda way.\r\n\r\nJust a few rambling observations. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-16 03:21:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks everyone!\r\nThanks for rambling, Hiroshige. Your head goes places
    similar to mine :-)\r\n\r\nRicardo, Did you see that the Partridge Family recorded
    that song too! Man, what a mismatch for them!\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: I will
    probably post a PDF on my site for anyone who wants a copy. I will post a link
    here when I do."
  created: '2007-08-16 04:22:40'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "It\u2019s totally legal for you to stick them up all over DC as long as you
    make them easy to remove. "
  created: '2007-08-16 05:05:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "James,\r\nWhat constitutes \"easy to remove\"?\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: Were
    you in Seattle? I don't remember meeting you there. Nick said hw saw you."
  created: '2007-08-16 05:26:01'
- author:
    name: fallenartist
    picture: 111868
  body: "Chris, that's better. What about trying moving the big text even more to
    the right that a bit of it is cut?\r\n\r\nAs, unfortunately, Polish troops are
    also in \"that\" place, I find the [[http://satyrykon.pl|Satyrykon]] '90 brilliant
    poster by Eugeniusz Stankiewicz still quite actual (although the original meaning
    was different).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Satyrykon90_5287.jpg]\r\n\r\n_______\r\n
    AL\r\n<a href=http://www.lenart.pl>lenart.pl</a>"
  created: '2007-08-16 10:54:01'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I shared an office (my first real job) with a guy who would wait until the
    boss was out, then play "We Gotta Get Outa This Place" really loud on his Walkman
    (dating myself too) and press the "page" button on his phone, which meant the
    song blared out from everybody's phone in the company. He was finally asked to
    stop but I loved it.
  created: '2007-08-16 14:07:56'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "<cite>The bullet holes, they use a crescent shape, and therefore have a direct
    reference to the crescent moon and star which is seen throughout the muslim community.</cite>\r\nI
    don't know about that Hiro. Too many concepts in my opinion. In the case of posters
    you're looking for a cohesive whole (not the sum of its parts). A lot of hidden
    meanings in a poster is not always a good idea. \r\nFor this reason I would remove
    the period at the end too although I agree, in some cases a well placed period
    is like a slap in the face. The horizontal version is sooo much better!"
  created: '2007-08-16 14:54:52'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>What constitutes \u201Ceasy to remove\u201D?</em>\r\n\r\nWheatpaste,
    maybe?\r\n\r\nNice to know that in DC you can still do that. A friend of mine
    spent a night in jail last year, for putting up flyers of his band in the East
    Village.\r\n\r\n<em>...which meant the song blared out from everybody\u2019s phone
    in the company...</em>\r\n\r\nPatty, that is laugh-out-loud funny! And Chris,
    I liked your anecdote about the song too. That should have been a scene in \"Apocalypse
    Now\" or \"Full Metal Jacket,\" even though those movies had their own effective
    songs in there.\r\n\r\nOh, and I did see the Partridge Family listing -- ha!"
  created: '2007-08-16 15:24:33'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t know about that Hiro. Too many concepts in my opinion. In
    the case of posters you\u2019re looking for a cohesive whole (not the sum of its
    parts). A lot of hidden meanings in a poster is not always a good idea.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm
    sure you're aware Lore that visual references as an integral part of the overall
    composition, add interest. Intended or unintended. The trap most designers fall
    into is to be too clever/obvious or too linear as in having only one dimension.
    Good design should work on several levels - hit over the head and seduce at the
    same time [personal opinion]. An interesting read on the subject is, Symbolist
    Art Theories <em>A critical Anthology</em> by Henri Dorra.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CrescentMoonofIslam_4200.gif]"
  created: '2007-08-16 18:10:32'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "No, Chris, I did get it the first time around (and thanks, Ricardo -- I did
    mean South East), but I was curious to know just what you were going to do with
    it, and whether or not someone one (or group) had commissioned you.\r\n\r\nLike
    the versions you've posted more and more as well -- that last one is the one you
    put up on Flickr, isn't it?"
  created: '2007-08-16 22:43:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "No one commissioned me, Linda. I just did it on my own. My method of distribution
    is to put it on variuos internet sites and Flikr groups so that anyone can print
    it and post it wherever they are. I have no money for printing but I figure if
    enough people either print and post it or send it via email, it may get some visibility.
    Not that much will happen because of it to stop the war but I just had to do something.
    Feelfre to blanket Canada if you like.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-17 01:46:07'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I'm too busy knitting other things to blanket Canada, dude....  ;-)\r\n\r\nWood
    that I got your drift, though."
  created: '2007-08-17 02:10:00'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Kudos for taking the initiative, Chris.\r\n\r\nIn a similar vein, the AIGA
    has done a few <a href=\"http://www.aiga.org/content.cfm/get-out-the-vote\"><strong>poster
    contests</strong></a> to encourage people to vote, and they post everything on
    their websites as PDFs, so that anybody can download and print them (to put up
    in stores in their neighborhood, for example)."
  created: '2007-08-17 05:35:17'
- author:
    name: Sans Serif is for Europeans
    picture: 112228
  body: "go back to the last one. left align main text. keep right alignment for tag
    line. get rid of top star and make the \"e\" in the middle line have a star instead,
    viola Iraqi flag. Please don't include the bullet holes.\r\n\r\n----\r\nSans Serif
    is Grotesque."
  created: '2007-08-17 06:23:30'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: Good job, Chris, in every way! The last one is the best, in my opinion, too.
  created: '2007-08-17 07:13:49'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Looks good. I like your latest versions the best. However, one criticism.
    I think your type should be full bleed, or have more space around it. It feels
    a bit uncomfortable to me in its' current size. If the purpose is to make it feel
    uncomfortable...I think it should be really uncomfortable by bleeding off the
    flag.\r\n\r\nAnother consideration\u2014 if this is to be printed large at a protest
    the boldness of the letters in their current size my make it very difficult to
    read from a distance. I don't know if this is a concern or not. I'll be at the
    protest on September 15 here in Washington, are you going?\r\n\r\nAnd Linda, I
    LIVE in SE! Boo! Actually, its getting a lot better these days. :)"
  created: '2007-08-17 17:57:35'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: In my opinion the original poster has always been over the top.   ;)
  created: '2007-08-17 19:46:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!!!\r\nor has taken too much off the top, Carl?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-17 21:02:12'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>And Linda, I LIVE in SE! Boo! Actually, its getting a lot better these
    days. :)</em>\r\n\r\nIt would have to be better than it was when I lived in Falls
    Church ten years ago.  That being said, I'm not surprised: so many neighbourhoods
    are undergoing gentrification these days. Let's hope the sub-prime bubble doesn't
    burst all of the upscaling."
  created: '2007-08-17 21:05:13'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: '"We are the animals who are out of our habitat" seems awfully worded. How
    about "We are animals out of the habitat"?'
  created: '2007-08-17 23:10:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"We are the Animals\" is a play on words of the Rock Group \"The Animals\"--the
    group who wrote the song. I admit, that was a stretch.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-18 00:00:07'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "I like your latest iteration, but I'd make the text White on Red, Green on
    White, and White on Black, so that way the only green is on the white stripe just
    like the real flag.\r\n\r\nMaybe you could try a pun on Burdon/burden instead.\r\n\r\n
    - Lex"
  created: '2007-08-18 00:49:55'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">the group who wrote the song\r\n\r\nPedantically, it was written by Mann
    and Weil for The Righteous Brothers, before they recorded it The Animals made
    the definitive version, having rewritten parts of it to reflect the North East
    of England.\r\n\r\nI\u2019ll get my anorak now.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-08-18 09:48:03'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: Please excuse my complete ignorance, but I've got no idea what "Song" you
    guys are talking about.
  created: '2007-08-18 10:11:43'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://www.mathematik.uni-ulm.de/paul/lyrics/animals/wegott~1.html\r\n\r\nRecently
    used in the soundtrack of Fahrenheit 9/11\r\n\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/B0002ZMIVM/ref=pd_luc_mri/105-3594033-6700409?%5Fencoding=UTF8&m=ATVPDKIKX0DER&v=glance\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-08-18 10:53:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Henry,\r\nHere is a piece of a review of The Animals from Amazon:\r\n\r\n\"...eric
    burton and the animals are associated with the viet nam war (or as the viets call
    it the American war) the \"we gotta ger out of this place\" is a classic, ...\"\r\n\r\nScroll
    down this page for the whole thing:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Most-Animals/dp/B000006Z3R\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-18 13:37:51'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: Thanks for the infos, though I've actually got close to zero interest in (contemporary)
    popular music, which also explains why I didn't know the song (though I'd probably
    recognize it if I hear it, since I did watch Fahrenheit 9/11).
  created: '2007-08-18 16:26:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It was popular in the 1960s so it is hardly contemporary. You may not even
    be old enough to remember it?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-18 17:36:57'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>What constitutes \u201Ceasy to remove\u201D?</cite>\r\n\r\nMasking
    tape, pushpins, water-soluble adhesive. Just make sure it won\u2019t be around
    after one or two good rains."
  created: '2007-08-18 17:50:30'
- author:
    name: glyphobet
    picture: 112278
  body: "I like it.  I recognized the flag immediately, but then I'm kinda an amateur
    vexillologist.  \r\n\r\nI would keep the font, and the landscape orientation.
    \ Vertically center each line of text on its stripe -- in the version you printed,
    the text on the first stripe is too low and on the last stripe it's too high.\r\n\r\nThen,
    since people don't get the Iraqi flag reference, change the text to this, and
    center it horizontally:\r\n\r\nwe gotta\r\n\u2605 get \u2605 out \u2605\r\nof
    iraq\r\n\r\nKeep the \"if it's the last thing we ever do\", and people will get
    the song-lyric reference.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-18 21:26:46'
date: '2007-08-15 01:51:52'
node_type: forum
title: Opinion of Poster--over the top?

---
