---
author:
  name: muzzer
  picture: 111977
body: "SO what do you fullas think about this? I know there ar eheaps of con artists
  ripoffs but this is so blatant that it is shocking!\r\n\r\norignal: http://vllg.com/Thirstype/Infinity/mudTyper+Weights/\r\n\r\nripoff:
  http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/t26/aeon/\r\n\r\nis this typical for t26?? I know they
  were really hot about 10 years ago, but who is really into this??\r\n\r\nMuzz"
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: This is not a typical T26 borrowing of concept. I think Thirstype definitely
    has a legitimate cause for complaint.
  created: '2007-08-17 04:23:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Well maybe they thought chester was some old guy like adrian frutiger, so
    it was OK to make like microsoft (segoe) or adobe (myriad).
  created: '2007-08-17 04:29:23'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "A little closer than those, Nick.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f03e1da41c595844cd2411b2c87f8e3b_3941.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/69b649c0b6c980509032b6b30e05714a_5291.png]"
  created: '2007-08-17 04:34:53'
- author:
    name: dicharry
  body: wow. that's bad.
  created: '2007-08-17 04:37:19'
- author:
    name: dicharry
  body: 'is there any recourse for something like this? i always remember hearing
    that you "can''t copyright an alphabet" which allowed for all kinds of helvetica
    and frutiger knockoffs. so the question is: what can 3st do other than shame T26
    into voluntarily removing the font from their collection?'
  created: '2007-08-17 04:39:28'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Perhaps T26 is unaware of Infinity, and just accepted it on its merits. Hard
    to imagine, but possible. Either way, they should be more careful.\r\n\r\nWhat
    Mr. <a href=\"http://www.paulnojima.com/\">Paul Nojima</a> was thinking, I can't
    imagine."
  created: '2007-08-17 04:45:42'
- author:
    name: Robert Trogman
    picture: 111573
  body: This happens all the time. The only thing you can protect is the name.
  created: '2007-08-17 05:19:39'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'Robert - I understand your experience is from the film type era when copying
    was common, but this level of plagiarism of an existing digital typeface is actually
    pretty rare today. '
  created: '2007-08-17 05:23:53'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Of course, what's truly unforgivable is that the T26 ripoff is of inferior
    quality. When H&FJ rework the already excellent Avenir into the transcendently
    good Gotham, that's called \"standing on the shoulders of giants.\" But this is
    just trying to make a dishonest buck off the backs of others.\r\n\r\nIn other
    countries than the US, there may be legal recourse. In the meantime, Mr. Nojima
    and T26 have created an entry onto their permanent Internet records that will
    be very hard to erase. I certainly can't imagine legitimate font people or designers
    working with either one now. For shame."
  created: '2007-08-17 05:27:46'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I've emailed them to see if we can't get a response. Until then I think it
    is best to not jump the gun. T26 is a nice group of people who do not condone
    piracy so I will give them the benefit of the doubt as I hope we would all do.
  created: '2007-08-17 07:16:35'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> you \u201Ccan\u2019t copyright an alphabet\u201D\r\n\r\nBut in some countries,
    you may register new and original letter designs.\r\n\r\n> bloody con artist ripoff\r\n\r\nIn
    my terminology, it is not a \"ripoff\", but rather a forgery by the Monotype method,
    because, while most lowercase and uppercase letters and most tabular figures are
    identical in design, there are a few exceptions, e.g. capital \"K\", German \"\xDF\",
    the \"@\" sign and a few other characters:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/infinity-aeon.jpg\r\n\r\nYet,
    another question is, whether \"Infinity\" is an original font at all.\r\n\r\nMore
    research would be required to decide this question.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-17 08:02:38'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: I've done the research. Infinity is original. Aeon is not.
  created: '2007-08-17 08:22:02'
- author:
    name: ybaggar
  body: "Paul Nojima about Aeon: \"I created this typeface to be used for my own personnal
    identity system. I wanted something UNIQUE to represent myself.\"\r\n\r\nWow!"
  created: '2007-08-17 09:39:29'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "It's too close to be unintentional. Not one person has the same exact idea
    for 97% of the alphabet.\r\n\r\nAlthough it is not discussed very often, designers
    do compete with each other. New genres enter the market (or re-enter) and then
    in two to three years time you have many types that are competitive with each
    other. And it makes sense too. If there is a [historic] model- there's always
    room a new spin- even if it's not old. Its also good for consumers too.\r\n\r\nIf
    I like Bureau Grotesque but not the price (700 smackers) or its serious demeanor
    \r\nthen\r\nProcess Type's Maple- but it doesn't have old style figures and maybe
    too much personality\r\nthen\r\nParry from OurType which is super clean maybe
    a little too sanitized\r\nthen\r\nI have to wait for National Grotesque from KLIM
    which has a little Akzidenz in it but if want more Swiss \r\nthen\r\nEndurance
    Pro from Ascender Corp which is super affordable and reminds me of...\r\n\r\nI
    think you get the idea! Inspired- but not a copy nor a forgery. So since this
    is an obvious copy I wonder if he just customized Infinity to his liking and mistakingly
    reasoned he could sell his modified copy. And just for arguments sake- What inspired
    Infinity? Is Infinity based on a type that has a structure/skeleton just so that
    we could say two people looking at the same source could get 'inspired' to created
    a techie sans with a similar look much in same way my examples above seem to?\r\n\r\nI
    hope all is worked out soon,\r\n\r\nMike Diaz"
  created: '2007-08-17 10:40:27'
- author:
    name: Nicole Dotin
    picture: 110879
  body: Muzz, curious as to what your connection is to the typeface and why you're
    interested in stirring this pot so publicly...
  created: '2007-08-17 11:11:24'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: Off Topic>>> Nicole I love your Elena!!! I hope to see it published soon!!!
    Congrats... Mike Diaz :o)
  created: '2007-08-17 11:20:51'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: That's just a bit too close.
  created: '2007-08-17 14:39:03'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "<em>is there any recourse for something like this?</em>\r\n\r\nYes. The affected
    parties could work it out amicably or it could get messy. Too close for coincidence
    and T.26 likely was unaware or would not have released it. Perhaps the type world
    could use an arbitrator for such issues.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-17 14:58:39'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I was only playing list-mom again. Sorry to those who think I was out of line.
    When I come across things that are too close for comfort I email the foundries.
  created: '2007-08-17 16:27:10'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Raph, a note: Frutiger referred to Futura when designing Avenir (hence the
    name). Gotham is derived directly from building signage in New York City, hence
    its name. It shares some traits with Avenir, but I doubt H+F-J even referred to
    Avenir in the development of Gotham. The major difference is the x-height.'
  created: '2007-08-17 16:29:43'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Aeon isn''t available on the T.26 site. '
  created: '2007-08-17 16:31:44'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "Tiff why are you apologizing? You stated that you asked both foundries for
    their comments and asked us not to speculate until we hear their positions. Truly
    commendable.\r\n\r\nBut also, thanks to muzzer for drawing our attention to this.
    Now we, as a group, are aware of the situation. But we need details from Village
    and T26."
  created: '2007-08-17 16:40:00'
- author:
    name: Village
  body: "Hello all. It has been interesting to read the lively discussion here.\r\n\r\nMurray
    is a long-standing and repeat customer of Village, and previously Thirstype. He
    has licensed several of our faces, and has provided valuable feedback and insights.
    Yes, he has a gruff manner and an... \"unedited\" prose style, but he's a good
    guy. He emailed me yesterday to point out the similarities of Aeon to Infinity,
    and asked if I thought it was appropriate for him to post on this site. I didn't
    see why not, and told him I had no objections.\r\n\r\nI immediately leapt into
    action myself, contacting both MyFonts and T-26, and receiving quick replies from
    each concerning the matter. In fact, the Aeon typeface has already been removed
    from the T-26 site, and should hopefully be wiped from the MyFonts database shortly.\r\n\r\nTo
    address Uli's question about the originality of Infinity. The face was originally
    designed at Thirst as part of a new identity for the modem manufacturer USRobotics
    in late 2000. The process is documented in the book \"Emotion As Promotion\":
    http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/1580930972/qid=1108143698/sr=8-1/ref=sr_8_xs_ap_i1_xgl14/102-1457986-3499327?v=glance&s=books&n=507846\r\n\r\nWith
    best regards to the Typophiliacs,\r\nchester\r\nVillage"
  created: '2007-08-17 16:41:46'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Thank you for filling in the blanks, Chester.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-17 16:48:38'
- author:
    name: segura
    picture: 110482
  body: "Tiffany, First of all... Thank you for having our back. And, thanks for sending
    this to me. How very unfortunate that folks are so quick to chop anyone down without
    the facts.\r\n\r\nI have been discussing this with Chester in a very friendly
    way since we learned of it. We have had a good relationship with Chester for many
    years (as we try with all others) and plan to keep it that way.\r\n\r\nWe had
    no idea that this font was a rip-off. It is practically impossible to know of
    every situation, or to know, or control what designers do.\r\n\r\nWe can only
    react responsibly as soon as we can, as we did here, and, of course, have already
    removed it from our offering. I hope this lowers the temperature here. It is really
    not necessary to start off on a negative. Best to all."
  created: '2007-08-17 17:00:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Glad to see that talking the the right folks does the trick. Hats off to
    all of you for quickly doing the right thing.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-17 17:05:04'
- author:
    name: segura
    picture: 110482
  body: Thank Dexcom.
  created: '2007-08-17 17:08:09'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>Yes, he has a gruff manner and an... \u201Cunedited\u201D prose style,
    but he\u2019s a good guy.</cite>\r\n\r\nI agree with Carlos that there was no
    need for such a harsh tone right off the bat. It's important to point these things
    out, but to leap to insults is unnecessary. It reminds me of the guy I kinda know
    who was running around yelling \"someone stole my cell phone\" when it was in
    his bag and he just couldn't find it."
  created: '2007-08-17 17:24:04'
- author:
    name: malbright
    picture: 111180
  body: "If only every outfit operated with the integrity and sense of responsiblity
    as these two. I respect them even more than I did before, and that's saying a
    lot.\r\n\r\nBravo."
  created: '2007-08-17 17:28:29'
- author:
    name: segura
    picture: 110482
  body: Again, thanks to Pattyfab & Malbright. :-)
  created: '2007-08-17 17:31:23'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Great to have you here, Carlos. Thanks for fixing the issue so quickly and
    protecting the original design.
  created: '2007-08-17 17:56:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: My apologies, Carlos.
  created: '2007-08-17 17:58:33'
- author:
    name: segura
    picture: 110482
  body: Apology accepted Nick. :-))
  created: '2007-08-17 18:58:33'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite>I respect them even more than I did before, and that\u2019s saying
    a lot.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell put. \r\n\r\nCheers Carlos!"
  created: '2007-08-17 19:03:50'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Glad to see all has been worked out in a timely manner. And Tiff, you did
    the right thing :-) I hope Mr. Nojima will learn a valuable lesson here... BE
    ORIGINAL! Perhaps he will design something fabulous one day and we'll be speaking
    of him in a more positive light.\r\n\r\nMikey :-)\r\n\r\nPS... if not he can work
    for this company:\r\nhttp://www.macxware.com/candypress/Scripts/prodView.asp?idproduct=67\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-17 19:10:39'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "While I'm at it!!!\r\n\r\nI think everyone should have a look this. Both
    in Germany. The original- Ingrid Liche, this other one- Joachim Frank.\r\nIs this
    what I think it is ??????\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/fontfont/ff_liant/\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/joachim-frank/waldorf/\r\n\r\nhttp://www.waldorfschrift.de/index.html\r\n\r\nHere
    we go again :-/\r\n\r\nMike Diaz"
  created: '2007-08-17 19:12:02'
- author:
    name: Ken Messenger
    picture: 111387
  body: "I'm always impressed with the lack of creativity even with the name changes:\r\n\r\nMistral
    to Mystic\r\nAlgerian to Tangiers\r\nTekton to Techno\r\n\r\nStupefying."
  created: '2007-08-17 20:28:09'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "My hats off to you to Tiff!\r\nI wish I had your calm and correct approach
    in some of my prior client meetings;-) "
  created: '2007-08-18 00:29:20'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: 'Hmm... I don''t know if I would call that lack of creativity, Ken; I think
    it''s more of a wink-wink thing... You know, they give it a similar name, or one
    that references similar sounds or names, so that you recognize what face is being
    ripped off... '
  created: '2007-08-18 00:30:19'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Yes, I'm impressed with T26's professional handling of this, and even more
    so with our fabulous moderators. As for Mr. Nojima, I hope he learns his lesson.\r\n\r\nThe
    discussion about Futura/Avenir/Gotham is another interesting one to have, but
    maybe we won't go into it in depth here. To me, it is self-evident that Gotham
    references Avenir. The \"G\" alone has that distinctive Adrian Frutiger form,
    and if you look at the lowercase you'll find that the only letter that's structurally
    different is the 'k' (Avenir has a symmetrical right part, like Univers, while
    Gotham's bottom leg meets the top leg partway). Futura is significantly different
    from both others: single story 'a', tail of 'g' curves up, tails of 'j' and 'y'
    are straight, top of 'r' curls to 1:30 (it's noon on both Gotham and Avenir),
    top bowl of 's' is much smaller than bottom, bottom of 't' is straight, 'u' has
    no right stem, and apexes of 'v' and 'w' are pointy.\r\n\r\nBut I'm not saying
    that's a bad thing, quite the contrary. H&FJ have created something that's a little
    bit new and different, and (by taking the challenge of increasing the x-height)
    definitely a lot better for some uses. That is a fine standard for type designers
    to aspire toward.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-18 02:27:00'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: 'Non-gender-specific attaboys to the parties that worked out the facts. One
    can always get plenty of exercise jumping to conclusions. '
  created: '2007-08-18 03:20:43'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Nick, would you care to elaborate on your insinutation about Myriad? Did
    you skip my presentation at TypeCon, or do you have a counterpoint?\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-18 05:35:47'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> like microsoft (segoe) or adobe (myriad)\r\n\r\n> Nick, would you care
    to elaborate on your insinutation about Myriad?\r\n\r\nI think that everyone knows
    (including Mr. Phinney) what is meant by \"like microsoft (segoe) or adobe (myriad)\",
    because Myriad (vs. Frutiger)\r\n\r\nsee http://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/ssi.pdf\r\n\r\nis
    in the same category as\r\n\r\nSegoe (vs. Frutiger)\r\nVeracity (vs. Utopia),\r\nAeon
    (vs. Infinity),\r\nWaldorfschrift (vs. FF-Liant)\r\n\r\netc. etc. etc.\r\n\r\nWhile
    Mr. Segura frankly admits that Aeon is a \"rip-off\" (and without delay removes
    this forgery from his website), Mr. Phinney would never have the courage to admit
    that Myriad is a \"rip-off\", nor would Mr. Gates ever have the courage to admit
    that Segoe is a \"rip-off\" of Frutiger, despite the incontestable and non-appealable
    decision, that Segoe and Frutiger are \"considered identical\" (denoting in legalese
    that Segoe is a rip-off).\r\n\r\nsee http://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/segoe.pdf\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-18 11:52:00'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Mike Diaz: <cite>I think everyone should have a look this. Both in Germany.
    The original [FF Liant] -- Ingrid Liche, this other one [Waldorf] -- Joachim Frank.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    think that's a typefaces from the twenties or thirties. In this respect, FF Liant
    is as 'original' as 'this other one'. In the FontFont 2004/05 catalog it's in
    the 'historic' section, by the way. So nothing to worry about.&nbsp;&nbsp;;-)"
  created: '2007-08-18 15:45:02'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Here are samples of Myriad (top) and Frutiger (bottom). I think type designers
    should be able to judge for themselves, but they sure look significantly different
    to me.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Myriad vs Frutiger_3851.png]"
  created: '2007-08-18 19:19:27'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Thanks Thomas!
  created: '2007-08-18 19:36:13'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: <strong>OH SNAP!</strong>
  created: '2007-08-18 20:14:18'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<cite> ... they sure look significantly different to me</cite>\r\n\r\nSince
    the legal notion of <cite>\"considered identical\"</cite> (as used in the Segoe
    decision) ignores minutiae, it is useless, from the legal point of view, to point
    to such details as e.g. that the Myriad-i has a round dot and that the Frutiger-i
    has as square dot.\r\n\r\nThe only legally relevant criterion is the \"show-through
    effect\".\r\n\r\nTypophilers are so very much specialized and so very much devoted
    to minutiae that they are usually not able to experience the show-through effect.
    Therefore it is necessary to explain the show-through effect to typophilers with
    reference to other intellectual works, for instance with reference to poetical
    works.\r\n\r\nHave a look at the following poem:\r\n\r\n<strong>Lion Lion, burning
    bright, \r\nIn the deserts of the night; \r\nWhat immortal arm or eye, \r\nCould
    make thy dreadful symmetry?</strong>\r\n\r\nIf you are familiar with English poetry,
    you will almost instantaneously experience the show-through effect while you are
    reading the above poem. What does this effect mean?\r\n\r\nOf course the words
    \"Lion Lion\" not only \"look significantly different\", but ARE \"significantly
    different\" as compared with the two words in the original poem, and the words
    \"deserts\", \"arm\", \"make\", and \"dreadful\" are also \"significantly different\".\r\n\r\nNevertheless,
    the original poem shows through, when you read the above forgery. Therefore it
    is not necessary that I quote the original poem for comparison, because you instantaneously
    know the original poem which shows through here. This is called the show-through
    effect.\r\n\r\nExactly the same show-through effect is experienced by non-typophilers,
    if they are accustomed to read texts typeset in Frutiger and suddenly see a text
    typeset in Myriad. Of course, non-typophilers do not know the name Frutiger and
    do not know the name Myriad, but if they have read many texts typeset in Frutiger,
    they will spontaneously think that it is the same Frutiger typeface, if they are
    presented with a text typeset in Myriad. This means that Frutiger shows through
    in texts typeset in Myriad, and hence Myriad from the legal point of view is \"considered
    identical\" with Frutiger, even though several letters of the alphabet are not
    fully identical in design.\r\n\r\n(Note: The term \"show-through\" is also used
    in the paper industry denoting that a text shows through from the reverse side
    of thin printing papers.)\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-18 21:59:14'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: I call bullshit.
  created: '2007-08-18 22:19:01'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "Ms. Uli,\r\nyou seem like a passionate woman, but I'm a little confused.
    The \"show-through effect\" that you are talking about \u2014 or maybe are making
    up? \u2014 is called the latin alphabet. The comparison that Thomas Phinney posted
    shows the differences between Myriad and Frutiger which are to my eyes, just as
    clear as the differences between Univers and Helvetica.\r\n\r\nJN"
  created: '2007-08-18 22:23:40'
- author:
    name: ybaggar
  body: "Obviously the \"show-through effect\" is relative and depends on the viewer.
    I have shown \"really different\" typefaces (helvetica and a futuristic looking
    sans) to friends who wouldn't even notice the differences. \r\nThat's the first
    thing. Then, there is the fact that tiny differences in the shapes can bring important
    differences in the rythm of the text so i think you can't compare  type with poems."
  created: '2007-08-18 22:46:27'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "i don't think Uli is talking about the latin alphabet. Uli is talking about
    the \"show through\" of the poem giving an instant impression to which we are
    accustomed, taking advantage of that familiarilty, and transferring it to another
    incarnation of the original. yes?\r\ni know blake, and i know the words above
    aren't blake, but they sound similar enough that i can't help but pick up on the
    \"show-through\" to connect (and someone less familiar may, in fact, confuse)
    one to the other."
  created: '2007-08-18 23:10:39'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I could manipulate nine out of ten ordinary Americans, or for that matter
    EU bureaucrats,  into thinking that that Myriad was just a half-assed knockoff
    of Arial if I showed them ten pages of Arial at sixteen points first. But blow
    it up a few picas and the differences are pretty obvious, and cannot be legitimately
    described as subtle or involving minutiae. \r\n\r\nUnless, of course, the person
    doing the describing is just a nutter, but I digress..."
  created: '2007-08-18 23:16:17'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: ChuckGroth, I agree with you that the Blake poem trick was interesting, but
    I don't see how it's relevant to the discussion about Myriad versus Frutiger.
    (Unless Uli was trying to say "FruTyger Tyger burning bright...")
  created: '2007-08-18 23:22:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "All a supposed 'show-through effect' would demonstrate in the case of Myriad
    and Frutiger (and it should be noted that no such effect has been demonstrated
    in a legal contest) is what I stated at the time of the Segoe UI issue: that the
    genre of sans serif type typified by Frutiger is too narrow to admit many other
    members. It would not demonstrate intent by Adobe to create a clone of Frutiger.\r\n\r\nI
    happen to think that Myriad is sufficiently different from Frutiger to constitute
    a legitimate, original design: one that further reduces the options for originality
    within this narrow genre of type design. As I have stated before, I think Segoe
    UI is too close to Frutiger for comfort (but this is something of a non-issue
    now, since Monotype Imaging now owns the rights to both typefaces).\r\n\r\nI find
    the argument that typographers are too specialised in their knowledge and experience
    to make these judgements, and that they need to be shown the show-through effect,
    problematic. What is the value of the opinion of the person who 'spontaneously
    thinks that Myriad is Frutiger', given that the value put on type is entirely
    determined by ability to distinguish between different typefaces? What is the
    control in this experiment? What if the same person spontaneously thinks that
    Frutiger is Univers, or Myriad is Gill Sans? Does that mean that all these types
    are to be considered legally identical? Or that the test is unreliable?\r\n\r\nThe
    question of value suggests a different test: whether an experienced typographer
    finds it worthwhile to purchase both typefaces, instead of just one and, even
    more importantly, whether he uses them in distinctive ways, i.e. whether he finds
    value in their distinctive features. I have had, at various times, access to Myriad
    Pro and three different versions of Frutiger (including Frutiger Next in which
    the unskilled 'non-typophiler' might detect the show-through effect of Myriad
    italic!), and have never found one design to be a useful substitute for the other.
    On that basis I judge them to be sufficiently distinct and to have independent
    value. On the other hand, I can't imagine using Segoe UI for any purpose that
    I wouldn't by preference use Frutiger (other than for technical or linguistic
    reasons relating to e.g. format, hinting and character set coverage).\r\n\r\nTo
    say that the details are unimportant in anything related to design is to risk
    undermining the whole. As Charles Eames famously said 'The details are not the
    details. They make the product.' And that is as true of type design as it is of
    furniture design, another field beset by unauthorised copying. The problem with
    relying on the opinion of people who can't tell the difference between an Eames
    chair manufactured to the exacting standards of the original design and a knock-off
    version is that the same person is going to buy the knock-off because it is cheaper.
    Effectively, you've created a legal environment in which educating people about
    design and quality becomes contrary to the interests of designers and manufacturers,
    because they are going to rely on people who are ignorant and are not going to
    pay for quality to be unable to tell the difference between two products in a
    legal contest, rather than relying on a knowledgeable, educated person to accurately
    describe the ways in which the two products are similar or distinct. This means
    that the legal interests of designers and manufacturers now run contrary to their
    normal commercial interests, which are to educate the market and increase the
    number of people who value the quality of the originals. That's a crazy situation."
  created: '2007-08-18 23:29:46'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: okay. i don't think the blake poem was a trick -- it was an analogy.
  created: '2007-08-18 23:31:24'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Hello there:\r\n\r\nKarsten> You are not correct about Liant's origin. See
    this page: http://www.fontfont.com/shop/view_product_desc.ep?id=12386\r\n\r\nIs
    it legal for someone to reference the Liant digital font files and create derivative
    works as it seems here?\r\n\r\nOr in order for it to be legal would the creator
    of Waldorfschrift had to have a sketch pad and draw every letter he saw on the
    front of the building of the Weleda cosmetics company or hair dye bottle and then
    go digitize his sketches? ( Like Loki Cola might have... a CokaCola looking font)\r\n\r\nAs
    for Myriad...\r\n\r\nI refuse to believe that during the brainstorming/strategy
    phase taking place at some conference table at Adobe that the Frutiger types did
    not come up.  I have to agree with Uli- Myriad is very close to Frutiger. There
    are new details but ultimately its derivative.\r\n\r\nBut just because its derivative
    does it make a forgery though? \r\n\r\nMike Diaz"
  created: '2007-08-18 23:40:35'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> but this is something of a non-issue now, since Monotype Imaging now owns
    the rights to both typefaces\r\n\r\nIs it a non-issue to Adrian Frutiger? I'm
    not trying to be snide. I'm really curious about what he thinks of Segoe."
  created: '2007-08-18 23:54:33'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: ">Is it a non-issue to Adrian Frutiger? I\u2019m not trying to be snide. \r\n>I\u2019m
    really curious about what he thinks of Segoe.\r\n\r\nI do not know what he thinks,
    but you should remember that this is sadly not a new topic for him. His typefaces
    were flagrantly copied during the phototype-era. Perhaps this is just the latest
    instance in a long story."
  created: '2007-08-19 12:59:34'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Mike Diaz: <cite>You are not correct about Liant\u2019s origin.</cite>\r\n\r\nRight.
    I shouldn't have relied on memory ... today I found the other type which I had
    in mind. Same genre (nice notion by John Hudson) but it is different.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2007-08-19 14:49:08'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> But just because its derivative does it make a forgery though?\r\n\r\nPoint
    well taken. Heck, if we couldn't use derivatives of other fonts, then we would
    have one sans (maybe two, geometric and humanist) one serif (or three, garalde,
    transitional and modern) a slab, a black letter or three, a script or three, and
    a couple hundred display faces ... and if a sans font has flames coming out of
    it ... that would make it a derivative too, wouldn't it.\r\n\r\nCopying, as in
    the original post is wrong. Improving and building on the work of the past is
    a scientific principle, and one that should be considered a base for typography
    as well."
  created: '2007-08-19 15:06:08'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Hudson, as often, made some valuable contributions to this thread which
    are worth a more detailed discussion. In order not to digress too much from the
    topic, I will select here only his statement about who is to decide whether two
    fonts are to be \"considered identical\" or not. In this connection, he mentions\r\n\r\n\"experienced
    typographer\",\r\n\"knowledgeable, educated person\"\r\n\"designers and manufacturers\"\r\n\r\nAs
    far as Europe is concerned, the situation is a follows: Six years ago, in December
    2001, a \"Council Regulation\" was published, the legal text of which is reprinted
    here\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/segoe4.pdf (see page 2, section
    14)\r\n\r\nFor your convenience, I quote here this section 14:\r\n\r\n\"The assessment
    as to whether a design has individual character should be based on whether the
    <strong>overall impression</strong> produced on an <strong>informed user</strong>
    viewing the design clearly differs from that produced on him by the existing design
    corpus, taking into consideration the nature of the product to which the design
    is applied or in which it is incorporated, and in particular the industrial sector
    to which it belongs and the degree of freedom of the designer in developing the
    design.\"\r\n\r\nThe two important legal notions are \"overall impression\" and
    \"informed user\". In the legal discussion preceding the above final \"Council
    Regulation\", three types of persons were discussed:\r\n\r\n1) \"ordinary consumer\"\r\n2)
    \"informed user\"\r\n3) \"design expert\"\r\n\r\nThe Council selected the middle
    term \"informed user\". For instance, the \"informed user\" of typefaces would
    be for example the production man in a school book publishing house who selects
    \"Myriad\" for the chapter titles and \"Minion\" for the body text of a new schoolbook.
    This means that the \"informed user\" is neither a \"bloody layman\" (e.g. his
    grandma), nor a \"design expert\", for instance a font designer (who may or may
    not be found at the Typophile website).\r\n\r\nIf I remember correctly, it was
    Luc Devroye who estimated that there are only about 300 type designers worldwide,
    and if this estimate is correct then the group of \"design experts\" (in the sense
    of \"font design experts\") is much too small as compared with the large group
    of the \"informed users\" working in printing plants, publishing houses, advertising
    agencies, etc.\r\n\r\nThe other important legal notion is \"overall impression\".
    This means, as far as fonts are concerned, that you must abstract from (minor)
    details of single letters and must view the \"overall impression\" instead. The
    \"overall impression\", in my personal view, is very hazy, and I do not like it
    very much, but it must be accepted as the law in most European countries. The
    term \"show-through\" (in German the term \"Durchscheinen\" coined by a famous
    German copyright expert named Ulmer) is connected with the term \"overall impression\".
    Here again we may explain the term with reference to the Blake poem:\r\n\r\nSuch
    words as \"lion\" instead of \"tyger\" etc. are (minor) details, because the \"overall
    impression\" of the above mutilated poem still makes it possible that the original
    poem \"shows through\".\r\n\r\nConcerning Myriad vs. Frutiger and Segoe vs. Frutiger
    this means: Does the \"informed user\" come to the conclusion that Frutiger \"shows
    through\", if he or she abstracts from the (minor) details and only compares the
    \"overall impression\" of the two fonts? For Segoe vs. Frutiger, this was confirmed
    by the legal decision quoted in this thread. For Myriad vs. Frutiger, I am of
    opinion that the same decision would be made by the Invalidity Division, if Adobe
    tried to register \"Myriad\" as \"community design\". But you cannot be sure,
    because the decision (\"yes\" or \"no\") depends upon the court and upon the judge
    and upon whether the judge had a delicious or an awful breakfast in the morning
    of the judgement day :-)\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-19 15:32:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">something of a non-issue now, since Monotype Imaging now owns the rights
    to both typefaces\r\n\r\nBut Frutiger doesn't get any royalties from Segoe, right?"
  created: '2007-08-19 16:27:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Stewf: <em>Is it a non-issue to Adrian Frutiger? I\u2019m not trying to be
    snide. I\u2019m really curious about what he thinks of Segoe.</em>\r\n\r\nIndeed.
    I should have been more specific: it is a <em>legal</em> non-issue since, so far
    as I'm aware, it isn't possible for Monotype Imaging to sue itself."
  created: '2007-08-19 18:54:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Uli: <em>The two important legal notions are \u201Coverall impression\u201D
    and \u201Cinformed user\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nI think the other important legal notion
    in the cited council regulation is 'taking into consideration the nature of the
    product to which the design is applied or in which it is incorporated'. This implies
    taking into account the nature of typography, and I would argue that this limits
    the suitability of the 'overall impression' test, since it is in the nature of
    typography to be concerned with details. This is why I suggest that a test based
    on perceived value is more reliable (not least because it can be confirmed by
    people pulling out their wallets) and also directly reflects the fundamental economic
    issue that gives rise to intellectual property litigation, i.e. illegitimate competition.
    So I maintain that the basic test of distinctiveness between two typefaces is
    whether an 'informed user' is willing to spend money to license both, i.e. whether
    he finds independent value in each typeface such that each is desirable. Of course,
    informed users may disagree, but then they may also disagree about the overall
    impression.\r\n\r\n<em>For instance, the \u201Cinformed user\u201D of typefaces
    would be for example the production man in a school book publishing house who
    selects \u201CMyriad\u201D for the chapter titles and \u201CMinion\u201D for the
    body text of a new schoolbook.</em>\r\n\r\nThat sounds like a very reasonable
    definition of 'informed'. But I wouldn't hire someone for that job who couldn't
    readily tell the difference between Frutiger and Myriad. :)"
  created: '2007-08-19 19:11:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">it is a legal non-issue since, so far as I\u2019m aware, it isn\u2019t possible
    for Monotype Imaging to sue itself.\r\n\r\nJohn, to put my question in another
    way, in theory Frutiger could sue Monotype for royalties from the revenue from
    Segoe, no? Not that he'd want to, but it seems that a legal issue does exist. "
  created: '2007-08-19 19:12:00'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Berkson:\r\n\r\n<cite>In theory Frutiger could sue Monotype for royalties
    from the revenue from Segoe, no?</cite>\r\n\r\nThe question is a very theoretical
    legal question, but nontheless, the clear answer is \"no\".\r\n\r\nIt seems to
    me that the decision of the Invalidity Division was not fully understood by everyone,
    otherwise you would not ask your question.\r\n\r\nAt the time in December 2004,
    when the Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG (please note that the applicant was neither
    Linotype nor Monotype) applied to the Invalidity Division to invalidate the Community
    Design \"Segoe\" registered by the Microsoft Corporation, the legal situation
    was as follows:\r\n\r\n1) The design of the old typeface Frutiger created decades
    ago was no longer protected and had already entered into public domain, so that
    even the Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG, which at that time fully owned the Linotype
    GmbH, was not permitted to register the public domain typeface Frutiger as a \"new\"
    European Community Design.\r\n\r\n2) The Microsoft Corporation (or rather Monotype
    and later Ascender) made a forgery of the public domain Frutiger design, renamed
    this forgery to \"Segoe\" and illegally registered the Segoe design alias Frutiger
    design as \"new\" European Community Design thus deceiving the Design Office.
    (Incidentally, anyone, e.g you or me, could apply for the invalidation of an illegal
    registration, because it is in the interest of the public that no illegal forgeries
    of designs such as \"Segoe\" etc. are registered.)\r\n\r\n3) When Linotype and
    the Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG learnt that Microsoft had made an illegal registration
    of the public domain Frutiger design renamed to Segoe in order to deceive the
    Design Office in Spain, the Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG applied to the Invalidity
    Division in Spain to invalidate the Community Design \"Segoe\" registered by the
    Microsoft Corporation on the grounds that the public domain design Frutiger and
    the design of the forgery Segoe are \"considered identical\", and hence the Invalidity
    Division invalidated the illegal design registration.\r\n\r\n4) Now the answer
    to your question \"In theory Frutiger could sue Monotype for royalties from the
    revenue from Segoe, no?\" is an easy one: Since the design of the old Frutiger
    font had already entered into public domain, the designer Frutiger himself lost
    any design rights into his own design, and therefore cannot sue Microsoft nor
    Monotype nor any other font forging company, which made forgeries of his Frutiger
    design, for royalties.\r\n\r\n5) It is presumed that the designer Frutiger still
    gets royalties resulting from the sale of his public domain font Frutiger, but
    such royalty payments are based only on contractual agreements and not on the
    design law, because the latter does not apply to public domain designs, hence
    the designer Frutiger could not sue Microsoft for royalties for the Segoe font."
  created: '2007-08-19 20:22:18'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<cite>I think the other important legal notion in the cited council regulation
    is \u2019taking into consideration the nature of the product to which the design
    is applied or in which it is incorporated\u2019. This implies taking into account
    the nature of typography, and I would argue that this limits the suitability of
    the \u2019overall impression\u2019 test...</cite>\r\n\r\nThe expression \"product
    to which the design is applied or in which it is incorporated\" only means the
    combination of a design, e.g. a logo, with a product, e.g. a leather belt.\r\n\r\nFonts
    are separate designs not applied to or incorporated into a product. Installing
    a font in Windows could -only theoretically- be interpreted as \"incorporating
    the design into the product\", but this is certainly not meant by the above definition.\r\n
    \r\nThe \"overall impression\" regulation is obligatory and cannot be overruled,
    but there is this exception:\r\n\r\nAs regards the expression \"taking into consideration
    the nature of the product\", an example would be a font specifically designed
    for such products as the cell phone display. Here the \"nature of the product\",
    i.e. the little LCD display on the cell phone, may have so low pixel resolution
    that even a font with very simple design would have to be regarded as original
    design by \"taking into consideration the nature of the product\"."
  created: '2007-08-19 21:51:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick, would you care to elaborate on your insinutation about Myriad?
    Did you skip my presentation at TypeCon, or do you have a counterpoint?</em>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MyrFrut_4225.jpg]\r\n\r\nMyriad
    is close to Frutiger, especially when one considers that when it was published,
    the only other typeface remotely like that was Adsans (little known). \r\nIn the
    context of this thread, I'd say that the difference between Aeon and Infinity
    is of the same order as the difference between Frutiger and Myriad.\r\nSo if we
    Typophiles can get all worked up about Aeon, why do we turn a blind eye to Myriad?\r\nFirstly,
    because it is published by Adobe.\r\nSecondly, because it is by designers who
    have produced many completely original faces.\r\nThirdly, because it is so well
    done: there is a double standard, where we may be prepared to accept skillful
    derivatives, because they add to the original, but not poorly executed efforts.
    \r\nReputation counts for a lot.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-20 00:13:30'
- author:
    name: sihep
    picture: 112339
  body: "I got sent a font called \u2018Full Life Sans\u2019 by a US-based medical
    equipment company and told \u201CThis is our custom-designed corporate typeface\u201D
    \u2026 but I kept thinking I had already seen it somewhere before.\r\n\r\nI'd
    love to know how much the type designer got paid for all that work. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/copy_3924.jpg]"
  created: '2007-08-20 01:08:18'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "I get the impression this kind of thing happens frequently. See for example
    the <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/17362\">UPS custom font</a>.\r\n\r\nUli,
    thank you for posting the information about the German law and the public domain
    status there of designs like Frutiger. That's considerably more helpful, I think,
    than trying to use a purely artistic analogy like a Blake poem in the domain of
    something that's part art and part functional."
  created: '2007-08-20 01:16:05'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: ': ('
  created: '2007-08-20 01:36:02'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Oh my, that Scala Sans rip-off is also pretty sad...
  created: '2007-08-20 02:19:58'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "Christ! lookat all these comments!! you guy make more noise than a cat on
    a hot tin roof!\r\n\r\n\"I got sent a font called \u2018Full Life Sans\u2019 by
    a US-based medical equipment company and told \u201CThis is our custom-designed
    corporate typeface\u201D \u2026 but I kept thinking I had already seen it somewhere
    before.\"\r\n\r\ncrikey mate, I have seen that beofre,   this guy did it:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.chank.com/services/custfontspop5.php\r\n\r\nanother
    bloody rip off artist! Haha, i suppose if you just draw 'fun fontz\" all the time
    it must be hard to do  a real text typeface. Maybe the designer of scala let him
    fiddle with it?\r\n\r\n-----------------------\r\nChopper Reid says \"Harden the
    fuck up\".\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-20 03:35:53'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Hi again:\r\n\r\nThere is possibility that Chank licensed a copy from FontShop
    to make specialized version for a client.\r\n\r\nDalton Maag did this when they
    made a 'regularized' version of FF Just Left Hand for a client of theirs:\r\nhttp://www.daltonmaag.com/about/modification/case_studies/cruk.html\r\n\r\nFor
    Uli- If Chank did not license Scala for modification is it still legal? Is Scala
    a public domain design already? How long does it take for a design become public
    domain- in the US and abroad?\r\n\r\nNick you hit the nail on the head! I find
    it ironic too- Myriad is patent pending too.\r\n\r\nMike Diaz"
  created: '2007-08-20 04:08:08'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Licensed or not, Chank fonts make me want to cry. I have to go hug my dog
    now...
  created: '2007-08-20 04:17:05'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Can someone make a bulleted list describing when its legal/ethical to copy/modify/derive
    etc. type designs and then conditions when its not. It would make clear the cloudiness
    surrounding these issues.\r\n\r\nMike Diaz"
  created: '2007-08-20 04:21:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: On the ethics side I don't think you can find much to argue with here... http://www.emigre.com/Editorial.php?sect=2&id=1
  created: '2007-08-20 04:24:39'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: That 'full life sans' is a really great example of a bad pirate job. There
    really should be a way for Martin to get either suppress the Pirate font or get
    his %.
  created: '2007-08-20 05:41:11'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>There is possibility that Chank licensed a copy from FontShop to make
    specialized version for a client.</cite>\r\n\r\nWe learned early on in this thread
    not to jump to conclusions. He certainly has made some original fonts. But with
    a name like Chank, it wouldn't surprise me if he is up to some kind of hanky-panky.
    What kind of name is that, anyway.\r\n; )"
  created: '2007-08-20 05:49:33'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Heptonstall:\r\n\r\n<cite>I got sent a font called \u2018Full Life Sans\u2019
    by a US-based medical equipment company and told \u201CThis is our custom-designed
    corporate typeface\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nMr. Diaz:\r\n\r\n<cite>For Uli- If Chank
    did not license Scala for modification is it still legal? Is Scala a public domain
    design already? How long does it take for a design become public domain- in the
    US and abroad?</cite>\r\n\r\n1) My recommendation for the American Typophile website
    is that they badly need an independent American design law and copyright law expert,
    who is not affiliated with a certain font company, for answering legal questions,
    because there seems to be much need among Typophilers for reliable legal information
    in these matters.\r\n\r\n2) <cite>\"Is Scala a public domain design already?\"</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    would be such a question which should be submitted to an independent American
    design law expert. My answer as a German with only a flimsy knowledge of American
    law (but with some knowledge of German law) is: To the best of my knowledge, typeface
    designs are not protectible by US laws and hence, as far as I know, must be regarded
    as public domain in the USA.\r\n\r\n3) <cite>\"How long does it take for a design
    become public domain- in the US and abroad?\"</cite>\r\n\r\n(a) In the USA, a
    typeface design, as far as I know, becomes public domain on the day, when it is
    published, because, as far as I know, the design of typefaces is not protectible.\r\n\r\n(c)
    As regards Germany, I can give a reliable answer: In Germany (and several other
    European countries), the design of a typeface (the British legal expression is
    \"typopographic typeface\") may be protected for a maximum period of 25 years,
    if the design is new and original AND if the design is registered at the design
    patent office within the first year of making public the new and original typeface.\r\n\r\n(d)
    As far as FF Scala is concerned, I could not find any registration for any of
    the FF fonts of the FontFont or FontShop outfit in the electronic files of the
    design patent office. This means that apparently none of the FF Fonts have ever
    been registered with the consequence that none of the FF Fonts are protected by
    the design law. No registration, no protection. It's as simple as that. So, the
    answer is, that FF Scala entered into public domain in the same year, when in
    was first published.\r\n\r\n4) As regards the \"US-based medical equipment company\"
    Medtronic, I have here temporarily uploaded an old nice sarcastic caricature which
    appeared at that time of the criminal court law proceedings:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/dough.jpg\r\n\r\ndepicting
    a would-be heart surgeon in hand-cuffs with a lot of \"dough\" (= bank notes in
    legalese) in his hands.\r\n\r\nThe background to this legal affair is as follows:\r\n\r\nIn
    Germany there was a huge \"heart valve scandal\" involving also the Medtronic
    outfit, whose sales manager for Germany got a one-year \"stretch\" (= imprisonment
    fine in legalese) for having given \"nice monetary presents\" to heart surgeons
    in order to \"convince them\" (\"bribe them\" in legalese) that they should buy
    Medtronic heart valves instead of the valves of the competitors.\r\n\r\nGermans
    may read the old news item, e.g. here and at other websites:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.welt.de/print-welt/article530332/Herzklappenskandal.html\r\n\r\nThere
    have been no less than 1500 criminal proceedings against numerous heart surgeons
    in many hospitals all over Germany. For instance, the chief heart surgeon in my
    hometown Heidelberg received the nice \"gift\" of more than 50000 Euro for \"research
    purposes\".\r\n\r\nSo, as regards the forgery \"Full Life Sans\", is becomes apparent
    that the Medtronic outfit, whose German sales manager had enough \"dough\" (money
    in legalese) at his disposal to make heart surgeons happy by presenting to them
    nice money gifts, will most certainly also have had enough \"dough\" to present
    a nice money gift to a font forger for making a forgery of the FF Scala font.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-20 09:41:27'
- author:
    name: malbright
    picture: 111180
  body: "I do not want to disparage Adobe in anyway. I love their fonts and their
    expertise, and I truly have the utmost respect for Mr. Phinney. He is far more
    knowledgable and experienced than I. Moreover, as one would expect from Adobe,
    Myriad is very well done and displays beautifully. I use it myself.\r\n\r\nBut
    to my simplistic eye, the difference between Frutiger and Myriad is molecular.
    In the real world, what normal human being could possibly tell the difference
    without a very trained eye? It's like taking a symphony and changing a note here
    and there, and calling it something new. \r\n\r\nI guess by changing a few curves
    a few degrees and making extraordinarly subtle changes, one can claim originality
    these days. But it certainly isn't art.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-20 09:56:20'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Copying, as in the original post is wrong. Improving and building on the
    work of the past is a scientific principle\"\r\n\r\nAnd the difference between
    the two is often highly subjective, contextually based, and all to often decided
    by lawyers. ;o)\r\n\r\nAs for Chank, he's a good guy. He makes his living off
    of fonts, so I wouldn't want to jump to conclusions either. Medtronic isn't some
    ma-and-pa company, either. "
  created: '2007-08-20 15:03:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>a bad pirate job</em>\r\n\r\nWhat's quality got to do with it? Authorized
    or not, Medtronic Sans is a consistently, considered derivation, in the manner
    of Myriad.\r\n\r\nAs Uli argues, type designs (but not BCPs, of course) are automatically
    in the public domain, and it is only the court of professional opinion that censures
    piracy.\r\n\r\nSo that court, as recently convened on this thread, has judged
    Aeon and Medtronic Sans guilty, yet for being the kind of fonts that do what Myriad
    does. Aeon has been sentenced, and the sentence enacted. Meanwhile Myriad is a
    typeface that practically everyone uses, and is not considered unethical by the
    design community.\r\n\r\nI'm not condoning or condemning anything, except perhaps
    an institutionalized double standard, for the whole thing is extremely grey, and
    every type designer has, ultimately, to rely on their own discretion when developing
    fonts that are revivals, derivatives, or similar to typefaces by other type designers.\r\n\r\nThose
    who are best able to form an objective opinion are type designers, and are unlikely
    to speak out, as it's bad form to throw one's peers under the bus, and few indeed
    are the type designers who have not blatantly copied another's work, in the guise
    of a revival."
  created: '2007-08-20 15:04:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Uli: <em>Fonts are separate designs not applied to or incorporated into a
    product.</em>\r\n\r\nTypefaces (and we are talking about design issues here, not
    technical or format issues, so let's avoid the term 'font') are designs incorporated
    into typography. Typography is the product. You proposed the example of an informed
    user being used to reading pages of text in Frutiger being presented with text
    in Myriad and thinking it was Frutiger. <em>Pages of text:</em> that is the product
    into which the design of a typeface is incorporated. Indeed, I would argue that
    type, far from being a separate design not applied or incorporated into a product,
    has no separate meaningful existence outside of typography, it exists in order
    to be incorporated into typography. The distinctive nature of individual typeface
    designs have their value in the distinctiveness that they bring to typographic
    design, i.e. design with type, and this is why the question of value is a good
    indicator of the distinctiveness of type designs. Again: if an informed user,
    such as the book production person you described, finds it worthwhile to spend
    money on both Frutiger and Myriad, that is a concrete measure of their distinctiveness
    and independent value."
  created: '2007-08-20 19:30:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Uli: <em>(a) In the USA, a typeface design, as far as I know, becomes public
    domain on the day, when it is published, because, as far as I know, the design
    of typefaces is not protectible.</em>\r\n\r\nIn the USA, a typeface is protectable
    by design patent for a period of 14 years from the date of registration. Design
    patent is a special class of patent protection, and like all patent protection
    it requires the designer/inventor to apply for and register the patent.\r\n\r\nSo
    there is no copyright protection for typeface design in the USA (although there
    is for fonts as computer programs), and there is no automatic protection for new
    designs, but it is incorrect to say that there is no protection or to assume that
    any typeface design is automatically in the public domain."
  created: '2007-08-20 19:40:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>So that court, as recently convened on this thread, has judged
    Aeon and Medtronic Sans guilty, yet for being the kind of fonts that do what Myriad
    does.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's begging the question, Nick. Surely the issue is <em>what
    Myriad does.</em>\r\n\r\nSince the concept of 'overall impression' seems so important,
    let me state that even in a comparison of a single word -- your Frutiger/Frutiger
    image -- the overall impression I get is that Myriad is a softer, more flowing
    design than Frutiger, that the differences in design details 'make the product'
    (to use Eames' phrase) and the Myriad product has a different overall character
    to the Frutiger product despite the similarities of letterform architecture. I
    believe you are more committed to the idea of type presenting a mood or a feeling
    than I am, so I am surprised that you do not find this difference in overall impact
    -- the softness and gentleness of Myriad compared to Frutiger -- significant.
    It is the reason why I would not consider the two designs exchangeable and why
    I would use both but for different kinds of projects.\r\n\r\nPS. If you include
    Adsans in the same design category as Frutiger and Myriad, then I think you definitely
    need to include Stone Sans, which is much closer to Frutiger and Myriad than Adsans
    and, for obvious reasons, must be considered influential in the design of Myriad.
    I consider Myriad as occupying the middle-ground between Frutiger and Stone Sans,
    in the narrow field of this particular genre of sans serif types."
  created: '2007-08-20 19:57:38'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>In the USA, a typeface is protectable by design patent for a period
    of 14 years from the date of registration.</cite>\r\n\r\nIs there still a requirement
    that the design of the font be especially new and distinctive to qualify for a
    patent, or can any font design now be covered by a patent?"
  created: '2007-08-20 22:06:59'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Hudson:\r\n\r\n<cite>In the USA, a typeface is protectable by design
    patent for a period of 14 years from the date of registration. Design patent is
    a special class of patent protection, and like all patent protection it requires
    the designer/inventor to apply for and register the patent.</cite>\r\n\r\nA couple
    of years ago, I read the US design law which is called \"Patent for Designs\"
    and which is incorporated as three short sections 171 through 173 into the overall
    American \"Patent Laws\", but I could not find any special provisions for typefaces.\r\n\r\nThis
    is crucial in my opinion, for the US design law is restricted to <strong>\"the
    design for an article of manufacture\"</strong>. This \"article of manufacture\"
    must really exist as a specific product or commodity, whereas a typeface exists
    per se as a \"scheme of ornamentation\" and is not inseparably attached to a specific
    \"article of manufacture\".\r\n\r\nFor instance, the situation is entirely different
    for the typographical logo \"Marlboro\" specifically designed for and inseparably
    attached to the cigarette packet as \"article of manufacture\".\r\n\r\nBut a typeface
    is nothing but a collection of separate letters, where even the sequence of these
    letters is not predefined in the sense of specific words (such as \"Marlboro\"),
    let alone of specific texts and let alone of two-dimensional arrangements of these
    letters on an \"article of manufacture\" such as a cigarette packet or a beer
    bottle or whatever other commodity.\r\n\r\nRegulation 171 runs as follows:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Whoever
    invents any new, original, and ornamental design <strong>for an article of manufacture</strong>
    may obtain a patent therefore, subject to the conditions and requirements of this
    title.</cite>\r\n\r\nWe read at the US patent website\r\n\r\nhttp://www.uspto.gov/web/offices/pac/mpep/documents/1500_1504_01.htm\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Design
    is inseparable from the article to which it is applied, and cannot exist alone
    merely as a scheme of ornamentation. It must be a definite preconceived thing,
    capable of reproduction, and not merely the chance result of a method or of a
    combination of functional elements.\"\r\n\r\n\"A claim to a picture, print, impression,
    etc. per se, that is not applied to or embodied in an article of manufacture should
    be rejected under 35 U.S.C. 171 as directed to nonstatutory subject matter.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nSo,
    could you please explain to me, where there exists for you, for instance in the
    case of \"Myriad\", the \"definite preconceived thing\", the \"specific article
    of manufacture\", the \"specific product\" to which \"Myriad\" is inseparately
    fixed.\r\n\r\n(By the way: In Germany, we had the same legal problem at the time,
    when the old German design law did not contain specific provisions for typefaces,
    so that typefaces, a couple of decades ago, were practically not protected under
    the old design law on account of the reasons stated above for the US design law.)\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-20 22:14:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>what Myriad does</em>\r\n\r\nYou explain it well:\r\n\r\n \"... the Myriad
    product has a different overall character to the Frutiger product despite the
    similarities of letterform architecture.\"\r\n\r\nSame letterforms, different
    finish. \r\n\r\nAeon is like Myriad in that respect, it is softer than Infinity,
    with rounder curves and smoother joints.\r\n\r\n <em>I am surprised that you do
    not find this difference in overall impact \u2014 the softness and gentleness
    of Myriad compared to Frutiger \u2014 significant.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is probably
    where we differ. I don't think this kind of subtle gloss is significant enough
    to constitute a new typeface, given that the letterform architecture is fundamentally
    the same.\r\n\r\n<em>I would not consider the two designs exchangeable</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    is not the acid test for singularity; the architecture of two faces may yet be
    the same, despite differences in finish that give them quite different tonalitites.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-20 22:27:20'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "While we're at it...\r\n\r\nDo the same people who think that Carol Twombly
    and Robert Slimbach copied Adrian Frutiger, feel that Frutiger copied Edouard
    Hoffmann and Max Miedinger? No? Why not?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/helv_frut_myrd_3767.png]\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-20 23:22:35'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Forgot Frutiger. Doh!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/helv_unv_frut_myr_4125.png]"
  created: '2007-08-21 00:06:07'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Do the same people who think that Carol Twombly and Robert Slimbach
    copied Adrian Frutiger, feel that Frutiger copied Edouard Hoffmann and Max Miedinger?
    No? Why not?</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s not a great argument, Miguel. The release
    year of Helvetica and Univers make it pretty clear that they were in development
    simultaneously (and I think Univers started first). And both faces are pretty
    clearly derived from Akzidenz."
  created: '2007-08-21 00:45:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Do the same people who think that Carol Twombly and Robert Slimbach copied
    Adrian Frutiger, feel that Frutiger copied Edouard Hoffmann and Max Miedinger?
    No? Why not?</em>\r\n\r\nBecause the grotesque form was well established, and
    Helvetica was not an original design, but an adaptation of Akzidenz Grotesk. So
    Univers was designed within a genre. (And within that genre, Akzidenz Grotesk,
    Helvetica, and Arial are all the same typeface -- in the same way that there are
    different cuts of Garamond.)\r\n\r\nHowever, the Frutiger typeface was a genuine
    innovation, right down to its letterforms, directly attributable to Adrian Frutiger.\r\nBTW,
    I don't think, and I've never said, that Myriad is a copy of Frutiger. I'm merely
    pointing out the architecture is fundamentally the same. Surely you can't disagree
    with that?\r\n\r\nThere is some difference between starting with someone else's
    typeface and modifying away from it, and starting from scratch and ending up with
    something similar to an existing face. I suspect our understanding of that process
    is why we're critical of Aeon and Medtronic, but not, perhaps, Myriad, although
    from a purely physical inspection, they appear to be equally derivative. "
  created: '2007-08-21 00:59:55'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>Ms. Uli,\r\nyou seem like a passionate woman, but I\u2019m a little
    confused.</cite>\r\n\r\nMe too. \r\n"
  created: '2007-08-21 01:24:35'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "I'm glad Miguel posted those images and saved me the trouble.\r\n\r\nThere
    is another thread going on about Tschichold and modernism, and I think this is
    an enlightening illustration of how modernism can create havoc with our notions
    of creativity and originality. If modernism endeavors to strip away ornamentation
    and reduce everything to pure functionality, how can anyone create anything modern
    without violating some previous creation? How many different ways are there to
    design a knife or fork? If one goes out to buy a set of flatware, one doesn't
    consider how only the forks are different, but how the spoons and knives are different
    too, right? I think typefaces are the same in that they are captive to their function,
    and especially so when ornamentation is reduced. When I look at Frutiger and Myriad,
    I see two different approaches to the same functional idea. Most of us here appreciate
    the differences between Helvetica and Univers, and I would say that the Frutiger/Myriad
    comparison is about the same in that they are two distinct approaches to a functional
    category that has already been pretty well distilled. In this context, the differences
    that are there, such as the tail of the lowercase y, are quite significant, non-trivial
    aspects to Myriad's personality.\r\n\r\nRemember, also, that Myriad (being \"modern\")
    is a product of its function, and that it was conceived as a multiple master typeface.
    That technology is greatly responsible for the appearance of Myriad, I think.
    I also think that Myriad's own characteristics are more evident at the ends of
    its dynamic range, not in the middle -- not to mention the italic design, which
    I would argue is rightly half of the entire Myriad design, making it even more
    distinctive and original overall.\r\n\r\nSo, in other words, Myriad in its entirety
    -- with the hundreds of possible instances from its original MM release, and with
    its italic design -- is certainly different from Frutiger.\r\n\r\nOh, and Myriad
    does have a U.S. design patent."
  created: '2007-08-21 01:42:29'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>However, the Frutiger typeface was a genuine innovation, right down
    to its letterforms, directly attributable to Adrian Frutiger.</em>\r\n\r\nSure,
    and no one is contesting that. Now you can't disagree that Myriad brings novelty
    to that design category, and that's what makes it a different design within the
    same theme.\r\n\r\n> <em>BTW, I don\u2019t think, and I\u2019ve never said, that
    Myriad is a copy of Frutiger.</em>\r\n\r\nIf you don't, what made you bring up
    the subject in the first place? What's there in Myriad that \"gets you all worked
    up\"?\r\n\r\n> <em>I\u2019m merely pointing out the architecture is fundamentally
    the same. Surely you can\u2019t disagree with that?</em>\r\n\r\nNo, I don't. But
    what's wrong about having the same architecture. There are dozens of typefaces
    out there that share the same structure. Does that make them all the same, or
    does it make them be part of the same genre?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-21 02:58:47'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>If modernism endeavors to strip away ornamentation and reduce everything
    to pure functionality, how can anyone create anything modern without violating
    some previous creation?</cite>\r\n\r\nFrom a practical and social standpoint,
    post WWI Central-European modernism was not concerned with individual creativity.
    It was a pragmatic design theory, focused on producing practical output for mass
    consumption. I don\u2019t get the impression that Tschichold and co. cared as
    much about anything new being created as they did about being active in the restoration
    of Europe. "
  created: '2007-08-21 04:36:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>what made you bring up the subject in the first place?</em>\r\n\r\nBecause
    I'm interested in intellectual property, and I wonder about the line that divides
    originality from plagiarism, and how it's drawn. \r\n\r\n<em>...a functional category
    that has already been pretty well distilled.</em>\r\n\r\nModernism isn't a catch-all
    category. Futura, for instance, is quite different from Frutiger. And neither
    typeface is the discovery of a modernist truth, they are inventions, unique distillations.
    \r\n\r\n<em>...it was conceived as a multiple master typeface. That technology
    is greatly responsible for the appearance of Myriad...</em>\r\n\r\nYes, that might
    explain things. I remember when it was released, and the specimen Adobe produced
    packed with its many instances, really exciting. The Multiple Master stuff was
    a distraction from being more circumspect about the basic type design. New technology
    has a way of devaluing old skills."
  created: '2007-08-21 04:44:21'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "This is one of the more interesting threads in a long time here.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-21 05:24:33'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>Because I\u2019m interested in intellectual property, and I wonder
    about the line that divides originality from plagiarism, and how it\u2019s drawn.</em>\r\n\r\nAre
    you? Well, then why are you dodging the questions?... Nevermind, I'm out of this
    one anyway."
  created: '2007-08-21 06:11:17'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "> Because I\u2019m interested in intellectual property\r\n\r\nWell, I'm also
    interested in the <em>idea</em> of intellectual property, but I'm still pretty
    skeptical about whether it's a good idea.\r\n\r\n:)"
  created: '2007-08-21 06:19:12'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>Modernism isn\u2019t a catch-all category.</cite>\r\n\r\nI was not
    referring to Modernism there, but the specific category that is inhabited by Frutiger
    and Myriad -- \"humanist sans serif\" or whatever you want to call it. What I
    meant was that it is a fairly distinct design category that is often referred
    to as such, implying that it is more than just a single design (e.g. Frutiger).
    If we accept that Frutiger is in a design category that is not the same as that
    of Helvetica or Gill Sans, then it follows that (a) some other typeface can inhabit
    the same category, and (b) the category is narrow enough that different designs
    within it would be very similar.\r\n\r\nThis sounds legalistic, but I think it's
    a pretty common way of seeing typeface designs. Typeface designers are almost
    always constrained by this problem -- the limited choices available within a category
    -- so I think we all have to be careful and thoughtful about how we consider it.
    If we haven't already been there, we probably will be sooner or later, and we'll
    depend on our peers to trust and understand that our intentions are good.\r\n\r\nThe
    suspicion and cynicism with which some view the Myriad design really does not
    reconcile with what I know and have experienced. I think it should be viewed as
    an earnest attempt to contribute something new and interesting to the typographic
    canon. I personally think it succeeds in that."
  created: '2007-08-21 07:12:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Now you can\u2019t disagree that Myriad brings novelty to that design
    category, and that\u2019s what makes it a different design within the same theme.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    a circular argument. Before Myriad, there was no category, only one typeface in
    a genre of its own, Frutiger.\r\n\r\n<em>Well, then why are you dodging the questions?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    didn't think I was. But unless Robert Slimbach shows up in this thread, I'm out
    of this one too :-)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-21 07:40:06'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<cite>Ms. Uli, you seem like a passionate woman, but I\u2019m a little confused.</cite>\r\n\r\nIs
    this a quote from an American movie said to a male? Just curious."
  created: '2007-08-21 08:31:45'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Slye:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Oh, and Myriad does have a U.S. design patent.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    Segoe design patent registration was invalidated, since it was illegal. And the
    same invalidation would also take place concerning the illegal design patent registration
    of Myriad, if someone, e.g. a competitor in the font industry, would apply for
    its invalidation. (But since Linotype sells Myriad and Adobe sells Frutiger, where
    are the competitors?)\r\n\r\nPlease, Mr. Slye, read again carefully, what I said
    above in the thread. And especially read again regulation 171 of the US Patent
    Law:\r\n\r\n\u201CWhoever invents any <strong>new, original</strong>, and ornamental
    design <strong>for an article of manufacture</strong> may obtain a patent therefore...\"\r\n\r\nNo
    judge and no court expert, who is \"sane in the brain\" (\"compos mentis\" in
    American legalese, see Websters), would ever swear that the typeface Myriad was
    <strong>\"new and original\"</strong>. But the most crucial argument, as I already
    stated above in the thread, is that you cannot register a design by US law, which
    is not registered <strong>\"for an article of manufacture\"</strong>. And therefore
    the registration of Myriad was illegal, since it was not registered \"for an article
    of manufacture\".\r\n\r\nHere is a few examples of \"articles of manufacture\"
    for which design patents were registered, e.g. for \"a steering wheel lock, a
    massage device, a tubeless tire changer, a liquid dispenser container, a tire
    tread design, an eyeglass display rack, a spice bottle container, a roof shingle,
    a concrete block for a retaining wall, a femoral hip stem prosthesis, a bottle
    cap, an armchair, a microwave oven, and a concrete mixer truck\", etc.\r\n\r\nNow
    let me know the \"article of manufacture\", for which Myriad was registered."
  created: '2007-08-21 08:52:51'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "This thread nicely illustrates that the decision whether a typeface is regarded
    as belonging to the same genre of typefaces, or as a mere imitation of another
    typeface, is a matter of perception. Which changes. As long as some typeface is
    novel in a way or another, and one or two other typefaces imitate these novel
    features (be that construction, serifs, stem endings), these will be regarded
    as imitations. As soon as many typefaces imitate these novel features, it turns
    out that there is a genre -- by looking at typefaces similar in one respect (the
    one that unites them and makes them belong to one genre) we teach the eye to see
    more minute details and learn to differentiate within the tight design space of
    this genre.\r\n(Not much different than in any other form of art.)\r\n\r\nPlease
    don't read this as an encouragement to imitate. I want to see unique stuff. Stuff
    that exhibits the designer's <cite>own</cite> mind rather than anyone else's headaches."
  created: '2007-08-21 09:13:47'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Hello all:\r\n\r\nMyriad works well at small text sizes all way up to airport
    way-finding posters. It has a fabulous repertoire of styles. The \"novelty\" that
    Miguel is speaking of is expressed by its ability to do everything very well.
    I personally don't see Frutiger that universal (Next negates some of that but
    anyway). Myriad is too well honed for all its capability to be a traced over but
    it heavily borrows. Mr. Hudson is right that Myriad has a softer appearance (which
    I personally prefer). Nevertheless, Myriad vs Frutiger is mentioned time and time
    again right along with all the other alleged knock-offs, copies, etc. \r\n\r\n(Interestingly,
    Stone Sans is never mentioned in the company of such scandal- this is the first
    time I hear of it on Typophile. Now this is a design I would considered derivative
    but not so much that it would make me feel uncomfortable- I see Myriad/Frutiger
    in there but Stone was drinking the Syntax Kool Aid that morning- okay!)\r\n\r\nKarsten
    you and Nick bring up an interesting point about what really makes a typeface:
    architecture/skeleton and then serifs, stem modulation etc are added on top of
    that. In Myriad's case its been argued that its derivative to Frutiger's 'architecture'
    and for that reason it has been derided.\r\n\r\nIn the context of new designs:
    What about a typeface that has a seemingly different architecture but has the
    same serif treatments. What do we say about it? Another genre?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture1_3613.png][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture2_3638.png]\r\n\r\nMikey"
  created: '2007-08-21 11:33:29'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "I think we can guess what this was:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.dafont.com/organic-elements.font\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-21 11:43:14'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "And this one too...\r\nhttp://www.dafont.com/renaissance.font?nb_ppp=50&af=on\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-21 12:09:39'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "In the Adobe vs. SSi lawsuit, Adobe's motion for summary judgment on its
    typeface design patent claim was <strong>denied</strong>, because the judge recognized
    genuine issues concerning the validity of typeface design patents:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Adobe's
    design patents are presumed valid; however, that presumption may be overcome by
    clear and convincing evidence to the contrary. ... Adobe's motion for summary
    judgment on its patent claims is denied and defendants' countermotion is denied
    because genuine issues of material fact exist regarding the validity and enforceability
    of the design patents.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nsee also http://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/ssi.pdf\r\n\r\nHowever,
    firstly this was only a \"summary judgment\" and not a proper court trial, and
    secondly this was only a district court and not a supreme court. Therefore this
    \"summary judgment\" is of little general value.\r\n\r\nWhat is needed is a supreme
    court decision based on a real trial with evidence and all such things, so that
    we know for sure whether typeface designs are protected by the US design law or
    not.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-21 13:14:37'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>Is this a quote from an American movie said to a male? Just curious.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo
    it was some written to you in the first page of this thread by James 'newguy'
    Newton. Elsewhere I had seen you referred to as a Mr. so naturally I was confused.
    Uli is a name I have never heard before, so I have no gender associated with it.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-21 15:22:17'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "Uli, my apologies if I assumed that you are a woman if you are in fact a
    man. The only \"Uli\" in my experience is Uli Herzner, a German contestant on
    Bravo TV's \"Project Runway\" Season 3:\r\nhttp://www.bravotv.com/Project_Runway/season/3/bio/Uli_Herzner\r\n\r\nUli,
    your arguments about European and American copyright law are obviously very researched;
    do you have a professional interest in the subject? You must be a trained lawyer
    to be able to understand all of the legalese.\r\n\r\nNick Shinn, I'm a little
    confused about your arguments. You seemed to be saying that Myriad is a ripoff
    of Frutiger, but insist that you are not saying that. Is it, or isn't it? Are
    you, or aren't you?"
  created: '2007-08-21 16:10:40'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "Uli, my apologies if I assumed that you are a woman if you are in fact a
    man. The only \"Uli\" in my experience is Uli Herzner, a German contestant on
    Bravo TV's \"Project Runway\" Season 3:\r\nhttp://www.bravotv.com/Project_Runway/season/3/bio/Uli_Herzner\r\n\r\nUli,
    your arguments about European and American copyright law are obviously very researched;
    do you have a professional interest in the subject? You must be a trained lawyer
    to be able to understand all of the legalese.\r\n\r\nNick Shinn, I'm a little
    confused about your arguments. You seemed to be saying that Myriad is a ripoff
    of Frutiger, but insist that you are not saying that. Is it, or isn't it? Are
    you, or aren't you?\r\n\r\nJN"
  created: '2007-08-21 16:11:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>You seemed to be saying that Myriad is a ripoff of Frutiger, but insist
    that you are not saying that.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm trying to avoid accusations and
    inflamatory language. As Chris said, everybody is well intentioned.\r\nAs Karsten
    said, whether one considers a typeface a rip-off (or whatever) is a matter of
    opinion, and as I've said, for type designers at work, a matter of discretion.
    \r\nNonetheless, it should be possible to discuss this in a serious, intelligent
    manner, whether or not one has vested interests.\r\nI do think Myriad's architecture
    is close to Frutiger's, but without knowing the process and intent, it would be
    a mistake to cry foul.\r\n\r\nMy initial post was sarcastic; but the question
    remains, if it's OK for Adobe and Microsoft to publish \"similar to\" faces, why
    can't anybody else in the type community, a tyro for instance, without being raked
    over the coals? I'm asking that question not because I come down firmly on either
    side, but because I want to hear a plausible explanation for why this situation
    exists."
  created: '2007-08-21 18:48:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "James; <em>Is there still a requirement that the design of the font be especially
    new and distinctive to qualify for a patent, or can any font design now be covered
    by a patent?</em>\r\n\r\nA typeface has to pass the US P&T Office standards for
    distinctiveness, and one of the requirements of submitting is that you have to
    identify 'prior art' that might have inlfuenced the design. The existence of prior
    art doesn't mean that the patent will not be granted, only that the patent examiners
    will pay particular attention to the relationship of the new design to the prior
    art.\r\n\r\n[Presume usual disclaimer about not being a lawyer, this message not
    consituting legal advice, etc.]"
  created: '2007-08-21 19:58:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Me: <em>I would not consider the two designs exchangeable</em>\r\n\r\nNick:
    <em>That is not the acid test for singularity; the architecture of two faces may
    yet be the same, despite differences in finish that give them quite different
    tonalitites.</em>\r\n\r\nAgain, the acid test of singularity isn't either architectural
    or tonal: it is value. Are the two types distinct enough for someone to find them
    independently valuable, i.e. independently useful and hence worth purchasing both.\r\n\r\nArchitecturally,
    there are probably fewer than half a dozen sans serif typefaces in existence.
    All the variation is in detail, weight and tonality."
  created: '2007-08-21 20:04:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>That\u2019s a circular argument. Before Myriad, there was no category,
    only one typeface in a genre of its own, Frutiger.</em>\r\n\r\nYou are contradicting
    yourself, Nick, because earlier you suggested that Adsans belonged to the same
    category. You are also, again, forgetting ITC Stone Sans, which precedes Myriad
    by five years and is very definitely in the same category."
  created: '2007-08-21 20:13:09'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">I happen to think that Myriad is sufficiently different from Frutiger to
    constitute a legitimate, original design:\r\n\r\nBut John, you might mention that
    Frutiger does not; nor did Linotype. Is Frutiger's eye to remain distrusted, is
    his voice to remain unheard? \r\n\r\nThomas, is your presentation related to the
    famous 7-page letter Fred Brady, then acting for Adobe, sent to Linotype when
    Linotype, acting for Frutiger, complained about Myriad? \r\n\r\nSee www.letimes.com
    -- the site that celebrates type piracy -- for more on Myriad and Frutiger. It's
    difficult to believe the issue is still going on.\r\n\r\nHasn't it been pretty
    well-established that Robert and Carol were asked to design a characterless sans,
    and that it was so bad that Robert basically had to turn it into Frutiger to get
    it off the ground? And isn't that the point where Carol lost input into the basic
    design? \r\n\r\nLike Carol said, a few years later, when she saw Today Sans Serif
    and its successor, Robert's Cronos: not <em>again</em>.\r\n\r\nBy now, what's
    the point of someone else defending Robert Slimbach's rather dodgy sans serifs?
    He certainly doesn't dirty his own hands by attempting to do so ...."
  created: '2007-08-21 20:16:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Mikey: <em>What about a typeface that has a seemingly different architecture
    but has the same serif treatments. What do we say about it? Another genre?</em>\r\n\r\nLucida
    Fax has slab serifs, Cambria has bracketed serifs. Neither the architecture nor
    the serif treatments are the same. These are both types whose primary design goals
    were defined by technical requirements: one to remain legible when faxed, one
    to be legible onscreen using a particular rendering model."
  created: '2007-08-21 20:20:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Uli: <em>A couple of years ago, I read the US design law which is called
    \u201CPatent for Designs\u201D and which is incorporated as three short sections
    171 through 173 into the overall American \u201CPatent Laws\u201D, but I could
    not find any special provisions for typefaces.\r\n\r\nThis is crucial in my opinion,
    for the US design law is restricted to \u201Cthe design for an article of manufacture\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    very first design patent granted in the US was for a typeface (an ornament type),
    in the mid-1800s. There are no 'special provisions' for typefaces in US patent
    law because they are covered by the basic design patent law and registration regulations,
    as set out by the US Patent & Trademark Office. A number of larger US font developers
    regularly obtain design patents for new types, including Adobe and Microsoft.
    The Microsoft CT fonts, for example, were all submitted for design patent and,
    so far as I know, all were granted.\r\n\r\nWhether all, none or some of the design
    patents granted to typeface designs would stand up to contest in court is, of
    course, an open question. I'm not sure whether there have been any cases in which
    this was an issue. Judge White's comments in the SSi summary judgement indicate
    that there are material questions regarding Adobe's design patents that deserve
    to be examined in court, rather than in a summary judgement. I don't take the
    comments to imply that he thought design patents for typefaces per se were questionable,
    in the way that you seem to, but that individual patents should be subject to
    examination in court, and not subject to summary judgement."
  created: '2007-08-21 20:27:16'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<cite>The very first design patent granted in the US was for a typeface (an
    ornament type), in the mid-1800s. There are no \u2019special provisions\u2019
    for typefaces in US patent law because they are covered by the basic design patent
    law and registration regulations, as set out by the US Patent & Trademark Office.
    A number of larger US font developers regularly obtain design patents for new
    types, including Adobe and Microsoft. The Microsoft CT fonts, for example, were
    all submitted for design patent and, so far as I know, all were granted.</cite>\r\n\r\nMr.
    Hudson:\r\n\r\nI will not insist on my legal views, since for me as a German,
    the US laws are not my province, but if your statements about the US patent law
    were true, then the court in the Adobe vs. SSi lawsuit would have been <strong>necessitated</strong>
    by the US patent law to <strong>grant</strong> Adobe's motion concerning Adobe's
    claims regarding Adobe's registered typeface design patents, but the court on
    the contrary did exactly the opposite and <strong>denied</strong> Adobe's motion.\r\n\r\nPS:
    You appended a new second paragraph to your message, while I posted mine. Therefore
    I have to add this additional explanation. The defendant (SSi) referred to the
    \"article-of-manufacture\"-necessity,\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Defendants claim that the
    patents are invalid because the font designs are non-statutory subject matter
    in Violation of 35 U.S.C. section 171 (requiring \"original and ornamental design
    for an article of manufacture\") in that none of the design patents disclose an
    article of manufacture.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nTherefore the court stated: <cite>\"...genuine
    issues of material fact exist regarding the validity and enforceability of the
    design patents\".</cite>"
  created: '2007-08-21 20:42:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill <em>But John, you might mention that Frutiger does not; nor did Linotype.
    Is Frutiger\u2019s eye to remain distrusted, is his voice to remain unheard?</em>\r\n\r\nI'm
    going to go all post-modern on you, Bill, and say that the author is dead. Which
    is not to say that Frutiger's opinion on the similarity between Frutiger and Myriad
    is irrelevant, only that I'm not going to privilege it over any other opinion.
    Ultimately, as I have stated repeatedly in this thread, the determination of individuality
    in the designs is down to whether people are willing to spend money on both types
    and whether they find them independently useful.\r\n\r\nDo people who own licenses
    for Myriad think it is pointless to spend money on Frutiger? Do people who own
    licenses for Frutiger think it is pointless to spend money on Myriad? Those are
    the questions that determine the independent value of the designs, or the lack
    of independent value.\r\n\r\nSince Linotype sell Myriad, I wonder what their own
    sales data indicates in this regard."
  created: '2007-08-21 20:49:08'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "Uli, you read too much into what I wrote. I stated that Myriad has a U.S.
    design patent. That is simply a fact I offered with no opinion or judgement. Personally,
    I am entirely uninterested in discussing the nuts and bolts of design patent law
    and history. It's something lawyers for companies like Adobe have decided to pursue,
    and like so many other things in the legal realm, it seems to exist more to give
    lawyers something to do rather than be of any real value to me personally. As
    you and John have illustrated, the law can be interpreted by different people
    and different courts... it's not a discussion in which I am qualified to participate,
    but luckily I don't want to.\r\n\r\nNot to fault anybody else for their interest
    in it. By all means, carry on."
  created: '2007-08-21 20:53:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Uli: <em>Now let me know the \u201Carticle of manufacture\u201D, for which
    Myriad was registered.</em>\r\n\r\nIt was registered as a typeface, just like
    dozens of other typeface designs have been registered by the USPTO for over 150
    years. The typeface is the article of manufacture. Typefaces are now manufactured
    as computer programs; previously they were manufactured as photographic negatives,
    and before that as brass matrices or as pieces of metal. The material of manufacture
    seems to me less relevant than the process of manufacture.\r\n\r\nBy the way,
    the legislative and executive branches of the US goverment have a vested interest
    in confirming the applicability of design patent protection for typefaces, because
    it is regularly used as justification for refusing further debate the issue of
    copyright protection. The mantra in Washington is that design patent registration
    is the appropriate level of protection for typeface design, and ergo there is
    no need to revisit the question of copyright protection."
  created: '2007-08-21 21:06:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>earlier you suggested that Adsans belonged to the same category. You
    are also, again, forgetting ITC Stone Sans, which precedes Myriad by five years
    and is very definitely in the same category.</em>\r\n\r\nOn Adsans, I said \"the
    only other face <em>remotely</em> like that\". Stone Sans has varied letter widths,
    rather than more homogenous (grotesque) proportions, which is a significant difference
    in basic architecture.\r\n\r\n<em>the determination of individuality in the designs
    is down to whether people are willing to spend money on both types and whether
    they find them independently useful.</em>\r\n\r\nIn that case, shouldn't we wait
    to see whether people buy and use Aeon, before condemning it?"
  created: '2007-08-21 22:40:08'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "John, the 'pages of text' argument anent Frutiger and Myriad is a good one,
    but it is also fatally flawed: you can't have pages of great-looking Myriad without
    having Frutiger first. Slimbach's brief was to design a completely independent,
    anonymous sans. He couldn't. As Carol has said, 'It didn't work. None of us were
    happy with it. As time went on, the design got more and more to look like Frutiger.'\r\n\r\nIs
    there really anything more to say? She did _not_ say to me, as far as I remember,
    'that made me uncomfortable' or 'I didn't like that', but it was clear she was
    uncomfortable and didn't like it. Hence her withdrawal to the peripheries of the
    project.\r\n\r\nIf he had had any talent as a sans serif designer, he could have
    designed something else -- something not the fairly recent work of a living designer
    whose work he knew intimately. He could have designed something that genuinely
    was original, like Scala Sans. But he didn't, and a few years later he turned
    around and did the same thing to Volker Kuster with Today Sans Serif. That's the
    way the guy works. \r\n\r\nWhat is really the point of defending people who are
    stealing and who know they are stealing -- and who are probably laughing at you
    for defending them? It's all too sordid! \r\n\r\nThe long and the short of it
    is that when designs are so close that this kind of passionate argument by real
    experts can take place, then the designs really are too close. \r\n\r\nThe discussion
    has no legal effect of course. But neither does it have any moral effect on either
    Adobe or Robert Slimbach. They have never cared, from the day they made the original
    presentation to Frutiger, to the day Thomas made his recent presentation, to be
    either truthful or fully disclosive as regards Myriad. I haven't seen the original
    presentation, but I remember Bruno Steinert discussing it two or three years ago,
    and he was still all but shaking with rage. From a corporate point of view, you
    can't realistically ask any of these people to take a different position. What
    would they look like if they just came out and admitted what happened in the case
    both of Myriad and of Cronos? But I guess that's the wrong question, because they
    can't look worse than they do now. Oh, for a breath of candour!\r\n\r\nUli, I
    must admit I like the Blake illustration; it's a new concept to me.\r\n\r\nMy
    last word is, stealing designs may not be illegal, but it is in very bad taste.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-21 23:18:21'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"stealing designs may not be illegal, but it is in very bad taste.\"\r\n\r\n...unless
    you're stealing a tasteful design. ;o)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-21 23:28:17'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Hi Bill, where you an Adobe employee? Are gossiping or do you really know
    because you were there?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-22 01:18:56'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Careful, Bill, plenty of people here also know Carol and Robert and were
    actually present at Adobe during the development of the originals in question.
    Don't stretch your tales too thin. Maybe you can provide the much-needed breath
    of candor yourself, and come clean about why you're still so worked up over the
    imaginary theft of Today Sans.\r\n\r\nNevermind, you already had your last word.
    \ ;)"
  created: '2007-08-22 01:45:52'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>The long and the short of it is that when designs are so close that
    this kind of passionate argument by real experts can take place, then the designs
    really are too close.</cite>\r\n\r\nAs just an observer, this sounds like a sensible
    comment. I imagine the responsible parties have to stick to their guns at this
    point, or all bloody heck might break loose."
  created: '2007-08-22 01:55:57'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>but I remember Bruno Steinert discussing it two or three years ago,
    and he was still all but shaking with rage.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf he was the one hurt,
    then I don't care one little bit. Go for it, Adobe.\r\n\r\nI hold him responsible
    for making CybaPee give up making fonts completely when Linotype started legally
    hassling her for naming a font Helvassim.\r\n\r\nhttp://cg.scs.carleton.ca/~luc/linolino.html"
  created: '2007-08-22 02:08:50'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "A moments silence for CybaPee \r\n\r\n...........................................................\r\n...........................................................\r\n...........................................................\r\n...........................................................\r\n...........................................................
    \r\n\r\nThank you."
  created: '2007-08-22 03:07:38'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "She is such a sweet thing. I hate a blustering, quarrelsome, overbearing
    person who habitually badgers and intimidates people. \r\n"
  created: '2007-08-22 03:09:29'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>The discussion has no legal effect of course. But neither does it have
    any moral effect on either Adobe or Robert Slimbach. They have never cared, from
    the day they made the original presentation to Frutiger, to the day Thomas made
    his recent presentation, to be either truthful or fully disclosive as regards
    Myriad. ... What would they look like if they just came out and admitted what
    happened in the case both of Myriad and of Cronos? But I guess that\u2019s the
    wrong question, because they can\u2019t look worse than they do now. Oh, for a
    breath of candour!</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is really an offensive post. Really, if
    candor is needed, it's not here. It is full of logical leaps, bad reporting, manipulated
    sources, unfounded judgement and obfuscated opinion presented as fact.\r\n\r\nHas
    it occurred to you that perhaps everyone <em>has</em> \"admitted what happened\"
    with Myriad and Cronos, and it's just not what you want to hear? Just because
    everyone hasn't \"admitted\" what you claim to \"know\" doesn't make it a controversy.\r\n\r\nIt
    seems to me, Bill, that you are reading whatever you want into Carol's quotes.
    In another post, you quote her as replying \"Not again!\" to your asking about
    the similarity between Cronos and Today Sans. You state you didn't ask what she
    meant by it. In the current thread here, you've presented the same quote out of
    context as some kind of damning judgement (seemingly with great relish), but really,
    doesn't everybody here say the same thing when the subject comes up?\r\n\r\nHere's
    another quote for you: \"Where's the beef?\""
  created: '2007-08-22 05:38:08'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Nick Shinn remarked wisely:\r\n\r\n<cite>So if we Typophiles can get all
    worked up about Aeon, why do we turn a blind eye to Myriad?\r\nFirstly, because
    it is published by Adobe.\r\nSecondly, because it is by designers who have produced
    many completely original faces.\r\nThirdly, because it is so well done: there
    is a double standard, where we may be prepared to accept skillful derivatives,
    because they add to the original, but not poorly executed efforts.\r\nReputation
    counts for a lot.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf I were to write a German book about the history
    of the printing industry from Gutenberg till now, I would devote a comprehensive
    chapter on Adobe and on Geschke and Warnock. While I fully recognize that there
    also have happened in recent decades many technological innovations in the printing
    machine industry and even in the paper making and in the book binding industry,
    I am fully convinced that the revolutionary developments in the pre-press sector
    of the printing industry are mainly due to two Adobe innovations: PostScript and
    PDF.\r\n\r\nIn this book on the history of the printing industry, if I were to
    write it, I would also mention that Adobe produced fonts, but I would not mention
    the forgery Myriad, because, from the global historial point of view, typefaces
    are ephemerical things, which come and go, and the making of imitations, clones,
    and forgeries already started during Gutenberg's lifetime.\r\n\r\nI recommend
    that every type designer should make a print out in large type size of this famous
    quote and pin it to the wall above his computer:\r\n\r\n<strong>\"Most of these
    queer types were mania types; they were produced to satisfy a demand of novelty,
    and when the taste cloyed they wore away in disgrace and a later novelty took
    their place. What appetites our grandfathers and our great-grandfathers had! We
    are now busy reviving some of the things they did. ... Printers and typographers
    to-day sometimes laugh at their predecessors who doted on these things, but they
    are often no better themselves. They have the same thirst for novelty, and the
    same facility for tiring of their pets. Typefounders' catalogues are strewn with
    the dead corpses of types that flourished exotically for a day and then drooped
    and were forgotten.\"</strong> (Se\xE1n Jennett, The Making of Books, Faber &
    Faber, 5th edition 1973, page 246).\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-22 08:00:33'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Thanks john! They look close to me though- but not under questionable progeny.\r\n\r\nMike
    Diaz :-)"
  created: '2007-08-22 08:06:43'
- author:
    name: ybaggar
  body: ">The long and the short of it is that when designs are so close that this
    kind of passionate argument by real experts can take place, then the designs really
    are too close.\r\n\r\nBill this is absolutely not an argument. Anobody could state:
    \r\nThe long and the short of it is that when designs are so close that this kind
    of passionate argument by real experts can take place, then the designs really
    are <strong>different</strong>"
  created: '2007-08-22 10:18:35'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "To sum up:\r\n\r\nApparently it just needs to be different enought that a
    few vested interests say it is so. And if they are big enough to lawyer up and
    obfuscate, then it passes the test with flying colors.\r\n\r\nBut if is just a
    small guy, squash him like a bug!\r\n\r\n(or did I miss something?)\r\n; )"
  created: '2007-08-22 16:14:05'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "So if you compress Lucida Fax slightly you get Cambria. I suppose you redraw
    it too? At least that? Clever spotting! \r\n\r\n>Ultimately, as I have stated
    repeatedly in this thread, the determination of individuality in the designs is
    down to whether people are willing to spend money on both types and whether they
    find them independently useful.<\r\n\r\nNot a very good point, since in the real,
    the factual, world, people often spend money on identical typefaces. Or even different
    versions of typefaces. A designer who really liked Minion, for example, could
    easily want to have all of the dozen or so permutations. And I believe National
    Geographic --  which makes stupendous use of the MM version -- still uses custom
    instances.\r\n\r\n>Careful, Bill, plenty of people here also know Carol and Robert
    and were actually present at Adobe during the development of the originals in
    question.<\r\n\r\nIn that case Carl, why don't you provide some information that
    actually contradicts anything I've reported? Having extensively discussed the
    piracy of both Myriad and Cronos with Slimbach, Twombley, Lemon and Stone, as
    well as Steinert from Lino and Pool from Scangraphic, I honestly think I have
    a clear picture of what happened. Do you have anything to add? If so, let's hear
    it! \r\n\r\nWhile we're on the subject of Adobe and piracy, let me just mention,
    since I don't think it's conveniently shown by Google, the elaborate research
    John Downer offered on the Type Design list, some years ago, showing that Adobe
    Trajan was a direct ripoff of drawings by -- forget his name --. As I recall,
    Downer told the story also of how Adobe did actually admit some of this, and at
    some point talked of offering some sort of compensation to the designer's estate.\r\n\r\nAre
    there still people out there who are going to insist that the Adobe type department
    is some kind of clean room?\r\n\r\nWhy?"
  created: '2007-08-22 16:23:18'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "On the seminal issue of Adobe Trajan and Father Catich, I have found some
    of the relevant posts from the Type Design list in 1999, and, apologizing for
    length, repost four of them here.\r\n\r\n1. John Downer, 21 July 1999, 21:08 EDT.\r\n\r\nThe
    late Father Edward M. Catich (d.1979), of St. Ambrose University in\r\nDavenport,
    Iowa, was generally recognized as the foremost authority on\r\nboth the style
    and genesis of the lettering that survives on the Trajan \r\nColumn. Carol Twombly
    proceeded on Adobe Trajan, at the direction of\r\nSumner Stone, and used Catich's
    research & reproductions extensively,\r\nall WITHOUT permission from The Catich
    Memorial Gallery, which owns\r\nthe rights to the Catich material. Sumner's stated
    position was to stay\r\nsecretive about the project, and for Adobe to pay some
    (unstated) sum\r\nto St. Ambrose University if the CMG administrators ever complained.\r\n\r\n\r\nComplaints
    were definitely heard, but Adobe didn't pay. David is right.\r\n\r\n\r\nThere
    was indeed an effort made by Adobe to get permission to quote \r\nwritings by
    Catich about the Trajan inscription, for promotional use \r\nin the Adobe Trajan
    type specimen, but Adobe's attempt to finally \"do \r\nright\" backfired. By that
    time, Mary Herrera, then director of the CMG\r\nhad received news of Adobe's \"revival\"
    project. Soon, St. Ambrose U.\r\nthreatened Adobe with a lawsuit over the unauthorized
    reproduction \r\nof Catich's alphabet art. Unfortunately, the charge had no legal
    merit\r\nin any U.S. jurisdiction, and got nowhere on that front. The CMG did
    \r\nsucceed in forbidding Adobe's use of Catich's copyrighted writings.\r\n \r\nPlease
    note that there is absolutely no direct use of anything Catich \r\nwrote about
    the Trajan Inscription in Rome excerpted in the Adobe \r\nTrajan type specimen.
    Not one work of his in the list of references.\r\n\r\n\r\nThe omission is rather
    telling: Adobe did only as much was required \r\n*by law* to compensate the Catich
    Memorial Gallery for Carol's use \r\nof Catich's artwork, research, photos, castings,
    and rubbings:  ZERO.\r\n\r\n\r\nRegrettable it is, that Adobe behaved without
    honor in this instance.\r\nI think Adobe owes St. Ambrose University at least
    a token payment.\r\n\r\n\r\nSadly, this isn't the way Adobe's legal staff sees
    the issue, but what\r\ndo they know? They are not being paid to follow their conscience(s).\r\nIf
    fairness were to have been the guiding principle, the story would\r\nhave been
    happier. As it stands, the Adobe Trajan type specimen is a\r\n*farce* in the absence
    of Catich's original commentary and the CMG's \r\nendorsement (or \"blessing,\"
    as David calls it). It is utterly laughable\r\nfor Adobe to claim the Trajan inscription
    is a \" first-century example \r\nof 'capitalis monumentalis' \" in the text of
    the specimen booklet. (In\r\nthe same sentence, no less, the word _millennium_
    is spelled wrong.)\r\n\r\n\r\nFather Catich would have precious little reason
    to be proud of Adobe.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nJohn Downer\r\n\r\n\r\n2. David Lemon, 1
    August 1999, 22:10 (-0700)\r\n\r\nAt 9:08 PM -0400 7/31/99, [removed] wrote:\r\n>
    The late Father Edward M. Catich (d.1979), of St. Ambrose University in\r\n> Davenport,
    Iowa, was generally recognized as the foremost authority on\r\n> both the style
    and genesis of the lettering that survives on the Trajan\r\n> Column.\r\n\r\n\r\nAgreed.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    Carol Twombly proceeded on Adobe Trajan, at the direction of\r\n> Sumner Stone,\r\n\r\n\r\nThat
    wasn't her impression.\r\n\r\n\r\n> and used Catich's research & reproductions
    extensively,\r\n\r\n\r\nI watched the development, and didn't see this. Carol
    studied rubbings of\r\nthe Trajan inscription, which are available from other
    sources.\r\n\r\n\r\n> Sumner's stated position was to stay secretive about the
    project,\r\n\r\n\r\nI'm not sure when & where Sumner stated this. Can you give
    details? It\r\nseems more likely to me to fall into the same category as most
    of Adobe's\r\nnew designs, which are rarely discussed before release.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    and for Adobe to pay some (unstated) sum\r\n> to St. Ambrose University if the
    CMG administrators ever complained.\r\n\r\n\r\nAdobe wanted to mention Father
    Catich's research in the promotional\r\nmaterial for Trajan, which, as John points
    out, would have been only\r\nnatural. Adobe looked forward to giving a charitable
    gift to CMG - after\r\nall, we have tremendous respect for Catich's research.
    Unfortunately the\r\nCMG took the position that anything based on the Trajan inscription\r\nconstituted
    a use of that research(!), and demanded for an exorbitant sum.\r\nThey seemed
    to feel they owned the inscription itself, and to overlook the\r\nsubstantial
    development and interpretation Carol contributed.\r\n\r\n\r\n> The omission is
    rather telling: Adobe did only as much was required\r\n> *by law* to compensate
    the Catich Memorial Gallery for Carol's use\r\n> of Catich's artwork, research,
    photos, castings, and rubbings:  ZERO.\r\n\r\n\r\nI'm unclear why John thinks
    Carol used them.\r\n\r\n\r\n> I think Adobe owes St. Ambrose University at least
    a token payment.\r\n\r\n\r\nWhich is what they were offered, and they declined.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    Father Catich would have precious little reason to be proud of Adobe.\r\n\r\n\r\nIndeed,
    since Trajan draws on the inscription, not Catich's research.\r\nCertainly he
    deserves credit for highlighting the perfection of that\r\nparticular inscription,
    and it's frustrating that the heirs of his estate\r\nrefused to allow that credit
    to be given in the Trajan mateials.\r\n\r\n\r\n- David Lemon\r\n  type nerd\r\n
    \ Five boxing wizards jump quickly.\r\n\r\n\r\n3. David Lemon, 2 August 1999,
    2:53 (-0700)\r\n\r\nI am surprised and disappointed that John Downer, who's done
    his share of\r\ntypeface design, would not understand the situation with Trajan.
    To try to\r\nclarify things further, I'd like to offer three points.\r\n\r\n\r\n1)
    Carol Twombly - not Catich or some ancient Roman carver - created the\r\nvalue
    in the Trajan typeface.\r\n1a) Trajan is an interpretation, not a copy. What Carol
    digitized were her\r\nown drawings, not the marble or someone's rubbings of it.
    Not one of the\r\nletterforms in Trajan is identical to a corresponding form on
    the Trajan\r\ncolumn.\r\n1b) Trajan is a typeface, not an inscription. Not only
    are the two media\r\nquite separate, their different functions require differences
    in design.\r\nThe forms and spacing necessary in a useful typeface are different
    from\r\nthose in Imperial inscriptions, and many additional characters are required.\r\n\r\n\r\n2)
    Father Catich deserves lots of credit for focusing the world's attention\r\non
    the Trajan column inscription, as well as for demonstrating the brush\r\norigin
    of the classic Imperial letterform. This seminal work, however\r\nimportant to
    our understanding of capital letterforms, does not make the\r\n\"look and feel\"
    of the Trajan column inscription his. Catich didn't create\r\nit, and was not
    the first or last to study it. And the broad appreciation\r\nof the classic look
    which makes Trajan successful has virtually nothing to\r\ndo with Catich's work.\r\n\r\n\r\n3)
    When Adobe approached the Catich Memorial Gallery to offer more\r\nvisibility
    for Catich's work, and a donation out of respect for that piece\r\nof history,
    CMG responded belligerently. They appeared not to appreciate\r\nthe points above.
    They appeared to believe that the type group at Adobe had\r\npiles of money at
    its disposal, and they appeared to think they had a legal\r\ncase. I get the impression
    CMG may have thought that letting Adobe pay\r\nhomage would somehow enhance the
    typeface's sales. Of course that's\r\nfoolish, but clearly CMG didn't understand
    the situation.\r\n\r\n\r\nAll of us in the type group were saddened and frustrated
    at CMG's attitude.\r\nIt's very unfortunate when institutions like CMG close the
    door on\r\nopportunity, but to portray their own choice as an injustice against
    them\r\nis yet another misjudgment.\r\n\r\n\r\n- David Lemon\r\n  type nerd\r\n
    \ Pack my box with five dozen liquor jugs.\r\n\r\n\r\n4. John Downer, 2 August,
    1999, 11:26 EDT\r\n\r\nI would be glad to respond to David Lemon's questions and
    comments.\r\n\r\n\r\nI first saw Adobe Trajan when it was in development at Adobe
    Systems\r\nin early 1988. Sumner Stone, who was then type director, showed me.\r\nI
    also saw reproductions from Catich's book Reed, Pen, & Brush there,\r\nalong with
    other reference materials, when Sumner gave me a look.\r\n\r\n\r\nCarol's work
    was going forward under the direction of Sumner and the\r\ncommittee he had invited
    to help direct type development at Adobe at\r\nthe time: Jack Stauffacher, Stephen
    Harvard, Lance Hidy, Gerard Unger,\r\nRoger Black all served in some capacity
    as advisors and consultants.\r\nIt is ludicrous for David to suggest that Carol
    believes her work could\r\n(or did) take place without Sumner's direction. Sumner
    was her boss.\r\nHe was the type director. Are we to think that Carol acted in
    defiance?\r\n\r\n\r\nI asked Sumner how Adobe had dealt with the Catich Memorial
    Gallery\r\nto obtain permission to reproduce the plates from Reed, Pen, & Brush,
    \r\npresuming that Adobe was the party responsible for copying the plates.\r\nSumner,
    a member of A-Typ-I, who had been instrumental in getting\r\nme to join A-Typ-I
    a couple years earlier, admitted (a bit sheepishly, \r\nI recall) that he had
    not yet contacted the CMG. He further stated that\r\nhe had no plans to do so
    until Adobe Trajan was finished, but said, in\r\npassing, that if CMG hollered
    about it, he would arrange for Adobe to \r\npay them, and that Adobe's money should
    shut them up. That's about as \r\nfar as my conversation with Sumner ever got.
    End of discussion.\r\n\r\n\r\nMy gripe then, as it is now, pertains specifically
    to the ORDER in which\r\nthings were done. The only fair & decent approach, to
    my way of thinking,\r\nis to ask permission FIRST. David completely skirts this
    when telling his\r\nversion of the story. The CMG was *naturally* outraged when
    Adobe told\r\nthem how much they would be paid for their consent before any consent\r\nwas
    ever politely or reasonably requested. Adobe had not bothered with\r\nthis detail
    prior to the time they were ready to produce the specimen \r\nbooklet showing
    the finished Adobe Trajan typeface, fait accompli.\r\n\r\n\r\nHow would you feel
    if a \"friend\" approached you one day to pay you three\r\nbucks and to say thanks?
    Thanks for what? Oh, for the use of your wife's\r\ncar ... it had a full tank
    of gas when we took it (before asking, of course).\r\n\r\n\r\n\"Heck, why are
    you getting mad?  We didn't crash the car.  Be cool, man.\" \r\n\r\n\r\nFor me,
    there are ethical and philosophical matters to be examined here:\r\nWhy bother
    asking if you fear the answer will be no? Well, there's a very\r\nsimple principle
    in the realm of civil behavior called COURTESY. It hinges \r\non the practice
    of the borrower showing respect for the lender. Adobe had\r\nshown absolutely
    no respect for the rights of the CMG before announcing\r\nits token offering (a
    sum considerably less than CMG figured would have\r\nbeen fair and appropriate).
    This is why I have sided with CMG on this issue,\r\nas nearly any Iowan, or other
    person with true respect for Catich, would.\r\n\r\n\r\nIt all boils down to following
    the kind of procedure the P-22 foundry has\r\nadopted. They work out an agreement
    with a gallery or foundation BEFORE\r\nthey digitize the handwriting of a famous
    artist or personality, so that\r\nthere are no hard feelings on the part of the
    owner, or in some cases the\r\nwould-be owner, when the fonts appear. Again, it
    has to do with manners, \r\npropriety, and honor. It is not merely a matter of
    interpreting a statute. \r\n\r\n\r\nIf it's true what David says about Carol not
    remembering that Adobe \r\nTrajan was designed at Adobe Systems, under the direction
    of Sumner\r\nStone, with the aid of various Catich materials, then *somebody*
    has a\r\nselective memory. I sure hope the forgetful person ain't me.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nJohn
    Downer\r\n\r\n**************\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-22 17:34:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>In that case, shouldn\u2019t we wait to see whether people buy
    and use Aeon, before condemning it?</em>\r\n\r\nNop, because Aeon doesn't display
    any significantly distinctive features at all and has an identical tonality, to
    use your word, to Infinity. It is not another typeface in the same genre to Infinity,
    it is a blatant copy of Infinity. I don't need to wait to see whether someone
    might purchase both and use them in a distinctive way, because there is no distinctive
    way in which you can use two things that look so similar.\r\n\r\nIn the case of
    Myriad, we seem to agree that the typeface has a different character or tone from
    Frutiger despite similarities of architecture. Since the selection of typefaces
    for particular purposes is very often guided by character or tone, distinctive
    use is not only possible but in evidence."
  created: '2007-08-22 19:35:46'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "This subject really seems to touch some nerves! \r\n\r\nBill Troop, you have
    quite a lot of insight into the development of Myriad; were you an employee of
    Adobe at the time? Which foundry do you presently work for?\r\n\r\nMany thanks
    to Uli for the great quote about novelty; I would say that this should be known
    by all designers! There is so much style-instead-of-substance in the worlds of
    design, art, film, television, music, etc. It's much more interesting to behold
    a creative failure than a successful pastiche.\r\n\r\nThanks to SuperUltraFabulous
    for posting Lucida Fax and Cambria; those two typefaces are clearly very different
    from each other. This is another good example of how subtlety is the province
    of the type designer. The roman alphabet is the given, and creating new ways to
    express the alphabet is the challenge. \r\n\r\nIt's like classical music performance:
    Bach wrote the music down to be played a certain way with the right tempi, dynamics,
    etc. Yet there are countless ways in which the music can be interpreted. Just
    look at the number of recordings of the Goldberg Variations, and you can see what
    I mean. (Many performers have recorded the work twice or more, including Glenn
    Gould and Andras Schiff.)\r\n\r\nWhile that Infinity typeface is not my cup of
    tea, it's not like anything else I've seen. In a way, it's like a song by Beck.
    And Aeon is clearly a \"cover version\", which probably should have stayed in
    the basement.\r\n\r\nHa! Bach and Beck!\r\n\r\nJN"
  created: '2007-08-22 20:31:06'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">In the case of Myriad, we seem to agree that the typeface has a different
    character or tone from Frutiger despite similarities of architecture. Since the
    selection of typefaces for particular purposes is very often guided by character
    or tone, distinctive use is not only possible but in evidence.<\r\n\r\nBut John,
    this doesn't address the fact that Myriad could never have been designed if Robert
    hadn't had Frutiger to trace over. The issue is, is it OK to trace over someone
    else's font and then claim that it is original? There wouldn't be an issue if
    Adobe hadn't wasted so much bandwidth trying to claim that they hadn't done this.\r\n\r\nBy
    contrast, look how Font Bureau works. FB has lots of of copies or adaptations
    of pre-existing work. Each one is impeccably sourced and credited. If Font Bureau
    had done Myriad, it would have said 'closely based on the seminal design Frutiger'
    or something like that. And there wouldn't be an issue here today. FB spends a
    lot of time trying to persuade users that its fonts look like something -- and
    that's true. Adobe spends a lot of time trying to persuade users that their fonts
    don't look like something -- and that's not true. In other words, it's not so
    much Adobe's practice that is vile -- though it is -- as their lying about it.
    \r\n\r\nDoesn't that kinda sorta tell you that you're barking up the wrong tree
    when you focus on the issue of the slightly different character of two nearly
    identical typefaces? That isn't the issue, fella! I know it's painful, but --
    but when are you going to face up to the real issues of right and wrong here?
    There really isn't a third way. Heaven alone knows you've been through enough
    to know that! \r\n"
  created: '2007-08-22 20:41:30'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> I didn\u2019t think I was. But unless Robert Slimbach shows up in this
    thread, I\u2019m out of this one too :-)\r\n\r\nYou are such a tease, Nick. (Or
    did I miss Slimbach's posting).\r\n\r\njust kidding"
  created: '2007-08-22 21:03:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...Aeon doesn\u2019t display any significantly distinctive features at
    all and has an identical tonality, to use your word, to Infinity.</em>\r\n\r\nJohn,
    the differences are just as \"significantly distinctive\", consistent and considered,
    as between Myriad and Frutiger. As I already mentioned, it's softer, to use your
    description of Myriad, than the original. This is visible in the bitmap images
    posted in this thread, which is all I've seen; A comparison at the size which
    we've seen Myriad vs Frutiger would show this more clearly.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-22 22:34:27'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, I'm much more interested in the nature of the thing made than the way
    in which it was made. You're catching me at the end of my involvement with ATypI,
    burnt out by a business often morbidly obsessed with piracy and copying, and really
    not very interested in the hysteria of who-did-what-to-whom-when. Sorry. What
    matters to me is whether the things people make have independent value, whether
    they are independently useful, not how those things might or might not have been
    based on something else.\r\n\r\nMaybe I'll change my mind one day, and all this
    will suddenly seem important again, but now it seems very silly. I'm reminded
    of the comment made regarding the politics of university English departments:
    the less important the spoils, the more bitter the fighting."
  created: '2007-08-23 02:59:16'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Bummer this thread went so off topic (meaning it deserves its own thread).
    Referring back to the start of this thread, I am glad to see a clear example of
    companies -- which are run by people -- doing the right thing.
  created: '2007-08-23 05:15:36'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Hi again:\r\n\r\n<em>\"What matters to me is whether the things people make
    have independent value, whether they are independently useful, not how those things
    might or might not have been based on something else.\"</em>\r\n\r\nJohn I have
    to disagree here. Myriad is part and parcel of just about every Adobe application
    {perhaps an exaggeration- Mr. Phinney knows for sure}. Its certainly apart of
    the Creative Suite- the standard for graphic designers. If Myriad is included
    in the app you use everyday at no additional charge then why would you buy Frutiger?
    Minus client stipulations of course.\r\n\r\nMike Diaz"
  created: '2007-08-23 05:52:43'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "For Bill Troop.... Can you please tell us your association with Adobe? Not
    trying to harp on you. Just would like to know more about how you've come to know
    these things. (Although you have stated you've had direct conversations with Twombley
    and Slimbach)\r\n\r\nThank you Bill... Mike Diaz :-)"
  created: '2007-08-23 05:58:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Mike: <em>If Myriad is included in the app you use everyday at no additional
    charge then why would you buy Frutiger?</em>\r\n\r\nI think you are making my
    point for me, because people <em>do</em> buy Frutiger, despite the widespread
    availability of Myriad, and I think this is precisely because the faces are different
    enough to be independently valuable and useful for distinct purposes.\r\n\r\nMyriad
    certainly put competetive pressure on Frutiger because it is in the same narrow
    genre. And what was the result? Frutiger Next, with its extended range of weights
    and its true italic. That's what competition is supposed to do: drive improvements
    and increase the options available to buyers.\r\n\r\nIf a typeface is a straight
    rip-off with no independent value, it is unfair competition, which is what one
    wants intellectual property laws to protect against. But it is an abuse of such
    laws to stifle legitimate competition. To my mind, legitimacy has to reside in
    independent value that makes two competing products desirable on their own merits.\r\n\r\nIt
    is my <em>opinion,</em> based on having worked with Myriad MM, Myriad Pro, Frutiger
    Linotype, and Frutiger Next, that Myriad meets this criterion of independent value.
    And by possessing its own value it doesn't diminish the value of Frutiger, which
    it would if it were just a copy with no independent value. Again, that's my opinion:
    the conclusion I have come to on these particular fonts. I came to a different
    conclusion about Segoe UI, which I don't think is sufficiently different from
    Frutiger to have independent <em>design</em> value (it has independent technical
    value in its character set coverage and hinting, but we're talking about design
    here). In neither case is my conclusion influenced by knowledge, gossip or supposition
    about the process by which these types came to be made. I actually don't much
    care whether Myriad was copied from Frutiger or Segoe was miraculously arrived
    at without reference to Frutiger. Why not? <strong>Because it doesn't change what
    I'm looking at.</strong>\r\n\r\nOne of the benefits of this approach to the issue,
    i.e. concentrating on the value of the thing made rather than the question of
    how it was made, is that one doesn't have to wade through the swamp with a divining
    rod, listening to the competing chatter of the inhabitants and trying to determine
    the truth of who said what, and who did what to whom, and who kissed whom behind
    the gym at recess. In other words, you can look at two typefaces, work with them,
    and make up your own adult mind about whether they have independent value and
    ignore the previous 150 messages in this thread."
  created: '2007-08-23 07:35:57'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">For Bill Troop.... Can you please tell us your association with Adobe? Not
    trying to harp on you. Just would like to know more about how you\u2019ve come
    to know these things. (Although you have stated you\u2019ve had direct conversations
    with Twombley and Slimbach)<\r\n\r\nI don't think that upsetting old story should
    be told or retold in this thread; let me know an email address and I'll send you
    a note. \r\n\r\nI am more interested in John's honing of his position. I still
    don't think he is right, but he has gotten around to stating it in a way such
    that I think we all should be seriously thinking about it and I for one intend
    to think about what he is saying for a day or two before replying. "
  created: '2007-08-23 11:37:25'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<strong>!!! Who can spot the Myriad letter wins the book prize !!!</strong>\r\n\r\nI
    have already read too many hazy terms in this thread:\r\n\r\n- \"Myriad\u2019s
    architecture\"\r\n- \"Myriad's tonality\"\r\n\r\nand similar hazy, undefinable
    notions.\r\n\r\nThe real test is whether you can spot Myriad letters.\r\n\r\nI
    guess that those who assert that Myriad is <strong>not</strong> a clone, <strong>not</strong>
    a rip off, <strong>not</strong> a forgery etc., will not be able to spot most
    letters of the Myriad alphabet, if these Myriad letters are mixed with letters
    of other fonts.\r\n\r\nI have uploaded one letter test file, here for the letter
    \"o\", at my site\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/myriad_o.pdf\r\n\r\nIn
    order to make the experiment more attractive, I offer this prize:\r\n\r\nWhosoever
    is the first to quote the correct number of the \"o\" of the Myriad in this Typophile
    thread, wins a precious original booklet dealing with the Syntax-Antiqua, which
    belongs to those famous sanserif fonts designed by German-speaking designers (Akzidenz-Grotesk,
    Helvetica, Frutiger, Syntax, etc. etc.) which have been imitated and cloned and
    forged so often by others.\r\n\r\nThis valuable 24-page Syntax-Antiqua booklet
    with a cardboard cover has portrait format (69 picas height by 40 picas width)
    and is typeset in 7p, 10p, and 14p Syntax-Antiqua foundry type and is printed
    by letterpress and contains numerous black-and-white illustrations and one color
    illustration and is not a promotional booklet, but a scholarly documentation in
    German language comparing Syntax-Antiqua with numerous other typefaces. The booklet
    is entitled:\r\n\r\nErich Schulz-Anker\r\nFormanalyse und Dokumentation einer
    serifenlosen Linearschrift auf neuer Basis: Syntax-Antiqua. Frankfurt am Main
    1969\r\n\r\nIn his dissertation, page 39-40, Keith Tom made quotations from this
    booklet, see here:\r\n\r\nhttp://typeculture.com/academic_resource/articles_essays/pdfs/tc_article_16.pdf\r\n\r\nSo,
    again, whosoever spots the Myriad-\"o\" in the file myriad_o.pdf and who is the
    first to quote the correct letter number (printed to the right of the letter \"o\"
    in the file) will be sent the original Syntax-Antiqua booklet as a book prize.\r\n\r\n-
    Take care not to select Frutiger. This would be a give-away :-(\r\n\r\n- Look
    for \"architecture\" and \"tonality\", provided this helps :-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-23 14:15:44'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "So, 284 is the one NOT to select, then!!\r\n\r\n______________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2007-08-23 14:44:11'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "It's number 329 plain as day, on page 19, third column sixth from the top.
    That said, picking on a single letter, especially 'o', especially in a humanist/geometric
    sans, to prove whether a font is or is not original is ridiculous. The test proves
    nothing.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-23 14:52:54'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I have uploaded one letter test file, here for the letter \u201Co\u201D,
    at my site\"\r\n\r\n*groan*\r\n\r\n(unless you are just having some fun with us,
    in which case: well played!)\r\n\r\nBTW, nice post, John. Lots to think about
    in that one."
  created: '2007-08-23 15:02:30'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "I love Uli's latest party trick. Is this your card?\r\nHow about a similar
    file with the period or maybe the space?\r\n\r\nI'm sad that Bill Troop isn't
    willing to continue his public statements about Myriad's development. This kind
    of inside insight from a player in the type industry is fascinating. Which foundry
    do you work for again, Mr Troop?\r\n\r\nMr Hudson, I applaud your thoughtful comments,
    and I agree with you.\r\n\r\nJN"
  created: '2007-08-23 15:20:41'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "I wouldn't say I work for any foundry. I have done work for Adobe and Bitstream
    in the past and am working with Lino on project now. My own organization, if you
    can call it that, Adagio Type Foundry aka Addict Type Foundry released some fonts
    in the mid 1990s through Precision Type but they are difficult to find at the
    moment. There is an Australian retailer which doesn't pay royalties that sells
    them, and there is a UK retailer that does pay royalties that sells them -- I
    forget the name of both. \r\n\r\nWithout really coming to grips yet with John's
    position, I reluctantly can't agree with it. Is it, simply expressed, this?\r\n\r\n'That
    if a clone has value independent of its model, it is ethically clean' ? \r\n\r\nI
    would, in the meantime, like to raise a red herring, which is that I disagree
    with the statement that the original Frutiger did not have a 'true italic'. This
    is simply too value-laden. Of course it had a true italic, and it isn't a mere
    mechanical slant (and even if it were, am I the only person to remember the graphical
    Berthold ad which memorably showed the difference between the Postscript mechanical
    slant we are all familiar with, and the rather more artful slant that Ikarus is
    capable of?). Frutiger Next and Myriad both have (somewhat) cursive italics, and
    cursive is the term I wish John had used. I don't think the cursive italic for
    Frutiger is 'true'; for one thing, it wasn't designed by Frutiger. I detest these
    politically correct cursive italics, or rather the unthinking dictum that there
    shall and must be cursive italics, rather like Lenin's famous promise 'After the
    Revolution you shall have strawberries and cream.' No 'you may' there, or 'you
    will be able'. You shall have them, whether you like strawberries and cream or
    not. "
  created: '2007-08-23 17:10:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "John, I don't think there's any doubt that Aeon is a \"rip-off\" of Infinity,
    but your position whitewashes it.\r\nImagine a situation where the art director
    specs Infinity but the client is uneasy with a typeface that actually has a personality,
    so a compromise is reached, and the watered-down Aeon gets the job."
  created: '2007-08-23 18:00:46'
- author:
    name: Village
  body: "Mr Shinn,\r\nyour argument is ridiculous. If someone wants a replacement
    for Infinity which has less character, why would he choose a typeface which is
    99% identical? Surely he would look at typefaces like Flama, or Klavika, or DIN.\r\n\r\nI
    have emailed \"off-list\" to ask you to stop using the blatant copying of Infinity
    as a tool in your odd little crusade against Myriad, and I'm doing it again here:
    Please act like a professional, and leave my work out of your arguments. Your
    comments lend credence to the existence of Aeon, which is not defensible.\r\n\r\nWith
    many thanks in advance,\r\nChester Jenkins\r\n(publisher and co-designer with
    Rick Valicenti of the Infinity types)"
  created: '2007-08-23 19:14:14'
- author:
    name: ybaggar
  body: "I find it strange to compare frutiger/myriad and infinity/Aeon\r\nInfinity
    is a modular-based display face. There is so much space and possibilities in  display
    typeface (and even in modular faces) that it is obvious that Aeon is just a plagiat.
    It is just a plagiat made by some unimaginative designer.\r\nI don't want to defend
    and get involve in the myriad thing too much, but I think that are really two
    different things."
  created: '2007-08-23 19:37:03'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<cite>It\u2019s number 329 plain as day, on page 19, third column sixth from
    the top.</cite>\r\n\r\nMr. Levien:\r\n\r\nMy congratulations. You have hit the
    nail on the head. Please let me have your postal address (with zip-code, town
    and street) so that I may send you the Syntax booklet by airmail.\r\n\r\nBut please
    do not say that it was \"plain as day\".\r\n\r\nI know that you are a GScript
    expert and a programmer. For you, it was easy to extract the PS source from the
    PDF.\r\n\r\n/FontName /RPZTQP+Myriad-Roman def\r\n...\r\n[/N3785/RPZTQP+Myriad-Roman
    1 TZ\r\n...\r\n/N3785 1 Tf (o)Tj\r\n...\r\n/N3887 1 Tf (3)Tj\r\n/N3887 1 Tf (29
    )Tj\r\n\r\nand voil\xE0, it was \"plain as day\" to you that Myriad had number
    329.\r\n\r\nThe other possible approach for you would have been to enlarge the
    letters in the PDF to huge point sizes in Acrobat and to study these blown-up
    letters. But this is not permitted here. The German regulatory specifications
    to the design law prescribe that the alphabet submitted to the design office must
    be typeset in 16 points and must not be examined with a magnifying tool (microscope
    etc.). In other words: Tiny details in letterforms, which are only visible in
    huge point sizes, are ignored, if two typefaces are compared. The law had to define
    a specific point size for objective comparisons of different typefaces, and it
    should be remembered that the vast majority of all texts are typeset in point
    sizes much smaller than 16 point.\r\n\r\nTherefore, as regards the file myriad_o.pdf,
    the sample would look like this:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/myriad_o.gif\r\n\r\nHere
    nobody sees that 329 is Myriad. Here nothing is \"plain as day\".\r\n\r\nAll typeface
    samples reproduced in this thread are much to large for legally relevant comparisons.
    Since the differences between Frutiger and Myriad are not visible in small point
    sizes, ridiculously huge samples were displayed above in this thread.\r\n\r\nIn
    the good old days, typefaces could be compared with the naked eye even in ordinary
    point sizes. In our modern Bezier-node-twiddling era, you need a magnifying glass
    to see what is \"new\" in so-called \"new and original\" typefaces."
  created: '2007-08-23 20:16:22'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Your comments lend credence to the existence of Aeon, which is not defensible.<\r\n\r\nNick's
    comments lead credence to Aeon? That's not the impression I got from this thread,
    but I am not masochistic enough to reread it. \r\n\r\nTrying to examine the strength
    of my position that what is important about a typeface is not just what it is
    but what it was, take the following case. Someone in the early 90s has the idea
    that 'Frutiger Battered' would be a great font. The designer takes the Frutiger
    data, batters it about a bit either by hand or by program, and places the resulting
    thing on the market. We now have a functional object which is completely different
    from Frutiger. So what are the ethics there? The ethical problem occurs not in
    the final result, but in all the processes -- thefts -- that led up to it. Frutiger
    has been robbed, all the technicians who worked on the font have been robbed,
    the foundry has been robbed. \r\n\r\nOr take another case. I think Minion is just
    a tad too narrow. Suppose I take a copy and widen it by five or ten percent. Suppose
    I do this really carefully, not mechanically with the scaling control, but paying
    some real attention to the process and the results. Maybe I make a few improvements
    along the way -- that dreadful question mark for instance, and the too tight fitting,
    and maybe I fix some of the mistakes in the italic, even.  Etc. etc. I now have
    a complete theft but it is not at all a substitute for Minion, though it might
    be a useful companion. \r\n\r\nAll of these devices are plausible, and they are
    getting us away from the idea that the final utility of the product is the valid
    arbiter of the issue, no? \r\n\r\nI'm not even saying that I don't agree with
    John fundamentally, maybe I do, I haven't really thought it through. All I'm saying
    is that it's not too difficult to poke some serious holes in his position, which
    will also be holes in my position if I adopt his. "
  created: '2007-08-23 20:32:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Uli: <em>I guess that those who assert that Myriad is not a clone, not a
    rip off, not a forgery etc., will not be able to spot most letters of the Myriad
    alphabet, if these Myriad letters are mixed with letters of other fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nEarlier
    in this discussion you were explaining how the legal question rests on the response
    of an informed user to a page of text, which is very sensible, now you are making
    tests based on identifying single letters mixed with other fonts, which is very
    silly. This has nothing to do with typography.\r\n\r\nFor the record, I've said
    everything I want to say on this subject, and I'm going to stop following this
    thread now. Anyone who wants to go and work with Myriad and Frutiger can make
    up their own mind about whether they have independent value. I certainly don't
    expect everyone to agree with my conclusion, but I do think the basis on which
    I made that conclusion is a sound one. If someone tells me that he or she has
    worked with both typefaces and finds them interchangeable, with no independent
    value, I might question that person's perceptive skills and typographic sensibilities,
    but at least it will be a conclusion arrived at from the types themselves and
    not from gossip. Goodbye."
  created: '2007-08-23 20:33:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Sorry, post removed.
  created: '2007-08-23 22:57:10'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Sorry, post removed.\r\n\r\nOh, what did I <em>miss</em>!"
  created: '2007-08-23 23:52:10'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Unfortunately, Mr. Hudson, in my opinion, makes a logical error here (at
    least as far as the German design law is concerned).\r\n\r\nBy the German design
    law, you have to supply for a new typeface the alphabet in lowercase (a...z) and
    uppercase (A...Z) and the figures (0...9) and 5 lines of arbitrary text, all this
    typeset exactly in 16 points. The file\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/frutiger-myriad.gif\r\n\r\nshows
    exactly, what you would have to supply to the design office in case of the regular
    styles of Frutiger and Myriad. I intentionally did not upload a PDF file, but
    only a gif file, so that nobody can enlarge the sample to huge point sizes.\r\n\r\nTwo
    things become apparent by viewing the sample: Firstly, most of the tiny distinctions
    between both fonts vanish, because they are no longer visible in 16 point size.
    Secondly, the five lines of text ignore \"typographical sensibilities\", because
    the typeface, for whose design you request the registration, is not a text, but
    a collection of single letters. You do not apply at the design office for the
    protection of the design of a certain text, e.g. for the layout of a certain book,
    but you only apply for the protection of the design of the letters A-Z etc. constituting
    a specific typeface. Hence Mr. Hudson's view is a hysteron-proteron. The design
    of the typeface comes first (proteron), the design of typographical products (books,
    magazines, etc.) using this typeface come second (hysteron).\r\n\r\nMr. Hudson
    is correct in assuming that I never worked with Myriad. Indeed, I never used Myriad
    nor any of the other forgeries documented at my website for legal authorities.
    Why should I want to use forgeries?\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-24 06:59:42'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Why should I want to use forgeries?\r\n\r\nWell, a fake Chippendale chair
    can still be awfully nice to sit in, and a good copy of a Goya can be rewarding
    to look at (see the endless passages Galsworthy devotes to just that issue). I
    think a mistake both John and Uli make is to consider font usage only from their
    unique personal perspectives. One has to consider whole blocs of other users as
    well.\r\n\r\nUltimately I think it is a mistake to focus exclusively on the technical
    elements of font forgery, to use Uli's loaded term. The ethical and historical
    aspects should also be considered. What is the matter with looking at the whole
    picture? \r\n\r\nAt any rate, it is nice, and just, that the Segoe design patent
    was invalidated. The design patents for Myriad and Cronos should similarly be
    invalidated except that there is no compelling financial reason to do. Not even
    Adobe has the effrontery to claim either typeface has the kind of originality
    a design patent would, ideally, embody. Their motives for seeking this protection
    were far more cynical: they could get away with it. When I was working on my 18th
    century transitional for Adobe, I was told never to describe it as such, but as
    a completely original design, because that way I could get a design patent. 'Nobody
    at the patent office will know the difference,' as Carol told me. \r\n\r\nI went
    along with that. This kind of opportunistic thinking is very corrupting, not that
    that is any excuse. What a sordid web! You can never get a little entangled. You're
    always a lot entangled. Just like you can't be a little pregnant."
  created: '2007-08-24 19:01:19'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "To sum up, it's as important to me, now, to know everything behind why and
    how a patent was claimed, as to know that the patent has been granted. \r\n\r\nJohn's
    English Department point was awfully on-target. The lowest level of hell on earth
    may be the college English department. However, below that I imagine is the poetry
    world, and below that the font world. Yet we keep on going! "
  created: '2007-08-24 19:17:46'
- author:
    name: ybaggar
  body: 'not to start the fire again, but i just read this 10 years old article by
    Erik van Blokland: http://www.letterror.com/content/value/index.html'
  created: '2007-08-28 20:52:07'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Believe it or not, I found this thread while doing a Google search on Father
    Catich\u2026 :=|\r\nI have read the most of it, and I wish to congratulate witj
    John Hudson and Karsten L\xFCcke, which took their time (especially John) to articolate
    their reflections in such a substantial way. They are perfectly balanced. Bravo!\r\n\r\nAll
    I wish to add are two things:\r\n\r\n1) Infinity is more a \"conceptual\" typeface
    (relying mostly on \"geometric\" treatment of forms, \"mechanized\" monotonal
    treatment, uneven endings et al), while Frutiger is the fruit of a long synthesis
    over letterforms. As different as they are, a thing like Aeon is unacceptable,
    because it clearly builds almost entirely on the work done to create Infinity.\r\nA
    face like Myriad, despite all the references to Frutiger, shows a process of work
    over all the preceeding forms. Many elements are extraneous to the fruit of Frutiger's
    own work on letters;\r\n\r\n2) Ultimately, I have only one criteria to decide
    in these situations: Was an alphabet produced out of the desire of doing something
    meaningful and \u2013 as Karsten said \u2013 expressing the designer's mind?\r\nIf
    any reference or borrowing has been done with the desire of doing something new,
    the effort is enough visible, and the time spent \u2013 which makes the work an
    effort with merits on his own \u2013 always shows through clearly.\r\n\r\nNick,
    I always admire your sharp approach and intelligence of things, but this time
    I cannot agree: Myriad is Myriad, Frutiger is Frutiger.\r\nAs long as I don't
    find an explanation on these issues done by Frutiger himself, there are no substantial
    elements to consider Myriad a \"byproduct\" done by mere copying\u2026"
  created: '2008-11-29 14:49:56'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "\u201C Times, Thimes, Temps, Tempos, Tiempos \u201D ..."
  created: '2008-12-02 12:50:21'
date: '2007-08-17 03:33:42'
title: bloody rip off artists!

---
