---
author:
  name: Christian Barca
  picture: 112373
body: "I'm working on a Logo for a theater group. They will perform \r\n\xABDer Vogelh\xE4ndler\xBB
  (The Bird Seller) by Carl Zeller.\r\n\r\nHere is a link about the story:\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Der_Vogelh%C3%A4ndler\r\n\r\nI
  thought to use some letters from book covers of Emilio Salgari. \r\nThe covers have
  been made during the late 19th century. This operetta was performed in this period
  the first time and this gives me an opportunity for an hommage. It might be a small
  connection, but i will give it a try.   \r\n\r\nThe logo will be used for an advertising
  campaign (ads, brochure, posters, etc.). So it has to work in different sizes. The
  following logo is still in a rough stage, but the idea has been accepted by the
  client.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/vogelhaendler_5610.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
  would appriciate if you could give me some feedback about the readability and interpretation
  of the letters. Any general thoughts are also welcomed.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/figlio_crosso_3883.jpg]\r\n\r\nThis
  is one example, you can find more here:\r\nhttp://images.google.com/images?svnum=10&um=1&hl=en&rls=com.microsoft%3Aen-us%3AIE-SearchBox&rlz=1I7GGLG&q=salgari "
comments:
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: It's looking pretty nice, although I'm not a great fan of your 'R'. Maybe
    something like in your exemplar image might work?
  created: '2007-08-19 02:06:20'
- author:
    name: russ_mcmullin
    picture: 112437
  body: I think it would be nice if you could get more of an organic quality to the
    letters. The ones on the book cover look like they have been drawn by hand, but
    yours look like they were made on a computer. The stroke weights are too uniform.
    The book cover also shows more variation in the cap height of the letters.
  created: '2007-08-19 03:27:27'
- author:
    name: novembernovember
    picture: 112969
  body: "A lot of things are going on right in the middle of the logo:\r\n1) LH ligature\r\n2)
    L with double horizontal stroke\r\n3) H with double horizontal stroke\r\n4) two
    dots offset from the A\r\n5) \"DER\" meets \"VOGELHA\xA8NDLER\"\r\n\r\nThough
    I like the double horizontal strokes, they add to the 'business' of the area.\r\n\r\nCould
    you lose one of them?\r\nI don't think they 'mean' or resemble anything - ie they
    are mere decoration ... but - I get the idea, due to the fact that there are two
    of these letters, and because they are next to each other, that they resemble
    something. (But they don't, do they?)\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-19 09:34:41'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "I agree with Quincunx that the foot of the \"R\" could be better -- maybe
    a simpler curve?\r\n\r\nAlso the density of the logo is uneven -- the left part
    looks empty, making it out of balance. Generally that could be a good thing, but
    in this case it just looks \"light headed\" to me. I'd suggest either trying to
    move \"DER\" over the \"O\" or -- more drastically -- push \"VOG\" together so
    they cross each other, like the \"DE\" in that book cover."
  created: '2007-08-19 10:02:24'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "And in case you don't move \"DER\" to the left, I suggest you move it slightly
    to the right to align it with the \"H\". With \"H\" over \"L\" it's hard to separate
    \"VOGEL\" and \"H\xC4NDLER\", left-aligning \"DER\" with \"H\xC4NDLER\" may help."
  created: '2007-08-19 10:03:14'
- author:
    name: Christian Barca
    picture: 112373
  body: "Thank you for your feedback! They're very helpful.\r\n\r\nHere is an other
    Image with the changes you recommended. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/vogelhaendler2_4152.jpg]\r\n\r\nThere
    will be a icon, of a birdcage with a rose laying in there, additional to the letters.
    I think I want to sort the letters out first and then continue to composite with
    the icon. \r\n\r\n@russ\r\nI agree with you russ, the letters should have more
    of an organic touch. I work on that when I have the final composition of the logo.\r\n\r\n@november\r\nas
    you can see in the third example, which is my favorite so far, it helps the readability
    without the doubles. The resamble of the double crossbar has to do with the birdcage
    icon, but it might work without it.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-08-19 13:22:24'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: I like the 'R' on the middle one much better to be honest.
  created: '2007-08-19 15:24:23'
- author:
    name: novembernovember
    picture: 112969
  body: "I like that third example now.\r\n\r\nBTW, the umlaut dots offset to the
    right over the A - exactly where the A gives way for the dots - is a nice touch,
    very subtle!"
  created: '2007-08-19 15:54:40'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "I really like the second of the three, except for the \"R\" -- I don't like
    either new version of it. Your original \"R\" was quite consistent with the other
    letters, only the foot needed fixing. The two new versions are both inconsistent
    with the rest -- they even have a different optical angle. To me, they disturb
    the general picture.\r\n\r\nThe \"OG\" ligature looks even better than I thought,
    I'd strongly recommend it no matter where you want to put the \"DER\"."
  created: '2007-08-20 01:18:59'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "Oh, and the \"H\" in the second row doesn't seem quite right -- did you deliberately
    raise the bar a bit, or was it an accident? It should be like the one in the third
    row.\r\n\r\nAnd if you don't align \"DER\" to the \"H\", the \"H\" shall have
    the double bar (and the \"A\" would then loose it) to highlight the begin of \"H\xC4NDLER\"
    -- as you did in the first row, but not in the third row."
  created: '2007-08-20 01:21:32'
- author:
    name: Christian Barca
    picture: 112373
  body: "Hello and thanx again!\r\n\r\nHere's an example with the Icon. As you can
    see I'm down to two letter versions, one with the OG ligature and one without.
    The icon is mirrord on the second. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/typophile_2_4148.jpg]\r\n\r\nArggh
    the R! I created the R out of the E and the bow of the G, i'ts now something between
    the first and third.\r\n\r\nLet me know what you think.\r\n\r\nCheers!  \r\n"
  created: '2007-08-20 15:49:08'
- author:
    name: novembernovember
    picture: 112969
  body: "I think it has become too complicated ... \r\n\r\nLook at the last example:\r\n\r\nAttention
    grabber #1:\r\nThe art deco (?) typeface in itself\r\n\r\nAttention grabber #2:\r\nThe
    OG ligature\r\n\r\nAttention grabber #3:\r\nThe G drops below the baseline\r\n\r\nAttention
    grabber #4:\r\nThe LH ligature\r\n\r\nAttention grabber #5:\r\nThe double crosbar
    H\r\n\r\nAttention grabber #6:\r\nThe offset umlaut dots\r\n\r\nAttention grabber
    #7:\r\nThe LE ligature\r\n\r\nAttention grabber #8:\r\nThe R drops below the baseline\r\n\r\nThis
    is far too much ... the legibility suffers from it.\r\n\r\nI think you should
    try two things:\r\nRaise the G up to the baseline, and loose the 'double crossbar
    idea' (should it resemble the bird cage? I don't think it works).\r\n\r\nI think
    that this logotype is going to be printet rather small from time to time, so you
    will need to make it easier to read."
  created: '2007-08-20 18:21:39'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "The second one is definitely better, not only because of the \"OG\" ligature,
    but also because the cage opens in the direction where there's open space. The
    \"R\" looks OK to me, too.\r\n\r\nI strongly disagree with novembernovember that
    all this is gotten to complicated -- this isn't functional design, it's artistic
    design for an artistic subject. Plus, art deco logogramm is supposed to be somewhat
    complicated -- aka sophisticated."
  created: '2007-08-20 19:21:56'
- author:
    name: Christian Barca
    picture: 112373
  body: "This Book cover has inspired me the most, and gave me the kick to try something
    different. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cartagine_5565.jpg]\r\n\r\n\xABIn
    Fiamme\xBB means in flames. Very clever the Ms."
  created: '2007-08-20 23:49:04'
- author:
    name: Christian Barca
    picture: 112373
  body: "G'day \r\n\r\nThe smallest size of using the logo is about 45mm x 30mm. Here
    is an example set in this measurements and two black and white version.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/typophile_2_5070.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    first one here has been reduced to the max as you recommend november. I like it
    and it's easy to read. It still has the flair of the first idea. I know it's a
    complicated logo, but when I just want to do something simple, I would use a suitable
    Font and type the words DER VOGELH\xC4NDLER. This is not what I had in mind and
    so I stick to the idea I had in the first place.\r\n\r\nThe second is the same
    as before. I understand why you think the double crossbar on the \xABH\xBB should
    stay henry. It helps to underline the beginning of the word \xABH\xC4NDLER\xBB.
    The OG ligature is a nice touch to symbolize the romantic side of that operetta.
    Have I sad that, I think the Icon itself gives me the romantic side. I'm not shure
    if I'll use the ligature.\r\n\r\nI have a presentation tomorrow. Cross the fingers
    that they're not goin to change the whole thing. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-08-21 12:27:18'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "In the small size it's not the type that is the problem so much, it's more
    the cage. The cage gets very messy, especially when white on black. The rose is
    no longer recognizable as a rose, maybe only on the full color version.\r\nI probably
    would try to make it a little less cluttered."
  created: '2007-08-21 17:09:58'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "The small-size versions all looks so blurred -- I think it's because you
    didn't use the correct resizing method. Instead of down-sampling the original
    vector graphic (I suppose the original is a vector graphic), you resized the regular
    size bitmap image instead -- possibly with \"linear\" and not \"bicubical\" algorithm?\r\n\r\nOr
    you did down-sample the vector graphic, but with \"Soft\" instead of \"Sharp\"
    anti-aliasing?"
  created: '2007-08-22 21:17:49'
- author:
    name: Christian Barca
    picture: 112373
  body: "I'm glad the client accepted the whole concept and I would like to thank
    you all for the support!\r\n\r\nThere are a few things I have to change. As you
    recommend Quincunx, the cage and the rose have to be more simple \u2013 less cluttered.
    I think I'm still away from my personal target. McMullin gave me the advise to
    make the letters more organic, I think he's right. So I'm gonna try to write the
    letters with a dip pen. This will take me some time, but as soon I got an example
    to show, i'll post it.\r\n\r\nCheers! \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-22 22:08:14'
- author:
    name: Christian Barca
    picture: 112373
  body: "Hello folks!\r\n\r\nHere is a new post. I simplified the birdcage and added
    some serifs to the letters. I tried to write the letters with a dip pen, but it
    didn't came out as I thought.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/new_5865.jpg]\r\n\r\nWhat
    do you think? \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n__________________________________________________\r\nFischers
    Fritz fischt frische Fische, frische Fische fischt Fischers Fritz"
  created: '2007-08-29 16:01:38'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I've been following this thread, just have posted yet. I really do like where
    it has been taken. \r\n\r\nThe LH pairing creates a little bit of a dark spot,
    not huge, just note. I also think given the fact that you are willing to make
    those letters so close you should consider bring Der down closer and perhaps the
    cage too. "
  created: '2007-08-29 18:16:25'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: The new cage looks fine, but I really don't like the serifs.
  created: '2007-08-29 21:17:40'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "serifs don't work for this at all ... in my opinion\r\n\r\n<br />\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com/\">Graphic
    Design Melbourne</a>\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-29 22:48:03'
- author:
    name: Christian Barca
    picture: 112373
  body: "Hi and Thanx again for your comments.\r\n\r\nThe serifs are gone and the
    space is less between \xABDER\xBB and the birdcage to \xABVOGELH\xC4NDLER\xBB.
    \r\n\r\nI took the next step and started to composite the logo with an image that
    will be used for posters, brochure and other print stuff. I used Jenson Pro for
    the information copy, I think it works well.\r\n\r\nWhat do you think about the
    image and the font for the copy, do you get the operetta feeling? \r\n\r\nCheers!
    \ \r\n\r\n  \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Flyer_4235.jpg]\r\n__________________________________________________\r\nFischers
    Fritz fischt frische Fische, frische Fische fischt Fischers Fritz"
  created: '2007-08-30 16:05:02'
- author:
    name: adnix
    picture: 109591
  body: "Odd that you post such beautiful examples of what inspired you, and then
    your poster is such a crowded design that seems to disregard your inspirations.\r\n\r\nI
    think you should establish a better hierarchy. Right now all the elements compete
    to be the main focus. \r\n\r\nThe disembodied hand feeding the birds looks strange,
    both in the execution and also in placement. Look at the first inspiration poster
    you posted--it has a very clear image that is easy to decipher and captures the
    viewers attention. The title on that poster, while large, becomes the secondary
    element (as it should be).\r\n\r\nYour rose and birdcage looks very \"clip-art-y\"
    It would be better if you redrew it with varying line weights to make a more impactful
    piece.\r\n\r\n\r\nDavid"
  created: '2007-08-30 21:20:48'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "A few remarks on the text:\r\n\r\n1. Usually it should say \"Eine Operette
    von Carl Zeller\";\r\n2. There's absolutely no reason for swash capitals in \"Vorstellung
    [...]\" -- I wouldn't even use them in \"Operette [...]\";\r\n3. Don't use semibold
    for \"Tickets & Infos\";\r\n4. Better yet, drop italic entirely for \"Vorstellung
    [...]\" and \"Tickets [...]\" -- the text is small enough to read, italic just
    makes it evern harder;\r\n5. \"ab 4. September 2007 Telefon [...]\" isn't a sentence
    -- better change it to \"ab 4. September per Telefon [...]\" (\"2007\" should
    be obvious);\r\n6. You might want to adhere to the standard German telephon number
    format, which would be \"(062) 8 73 08 44\" whereas the spaces in between should
    all be thin spaces (1/4 en, or just \"Thin Space\" in InDesign)."
  created: '2007-08-30 22:47:25'
- author:
    name: kattttor
    picture: 112352
  body: "I agree with the clipart feel that the cage has. I imagined something in
    the lines of Jugendstil or Art Neavou when I saw the cover you posted. That the
    cage would be very decorative. Im missing that also in the type, When I think
    about opera I get similar images like the cover you posted, much detail and curves.
    Same goes for the rose.\r\n\r\nOtherwise I think the type has the right basic
    idea to it but in my opinion it should be more decorative and maybe a little thicker.\r\n\r\nsome
    kind of style examples\r\nhttp://www.zeichen.dsl.pipex.com/cv10b.jpg\r\nhttp://www.heldfond.com/8292-1.jpg\r\nhttp://www.oppisworld.de/morgen/bilder/crane2.jpg\r\nhttp://www.mamac.be/local/cache-vignettes/L369xH288/Mucha-33324-a7ce7.jpg
    (this one is a little small)\r\n\r\nthat's my two cents and I've never been to
    a opera in my entire life so I might not be the best judge on this. I just have
    opera on tv knowledge :)\r\n\r\n\r\npeter"
  created: '2007-08-31 14:33:08'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: They aren't white lines they are where the flattener has cut the image. Set
    your black type to overprint and it might improve where it cuts.
  created: '2007-09-06 18:21:33'
- author:
    name: Christian Barca
    picture: 112373
  body: "Hello\r\n\r\nI decided to go with this image, because the client wants a
    photo and not an illustration and no people. I know that the style of the logotype
    is art nouveau and I would love to do something in the way like Alphonse Mucha.
    There is slightly a problem \u2013 the story is held in 1790, which is more baroque
    then jugendstil. I think the Image I used is a compromise between the story and
    the first perfomance period. Some kind baroque meets art nouveau. \r\n\r\nAbout
    my inspiration examples: I didn't intend to copy the style of image, it was the
    typestyle that fascinated me. Maybe I didn't made myself clear about that. Thanx
    anyway for the critique and links. \r\n\r\nI've changed the information copy as
    you recommend henry. Thanx for the input, I think I played to much with the open
    type features and lost focus!\r\n\r\nAbout the birdcage: Yep, it looks cliparty
    but it is simple and it works in small sizes. The client hasn't seen it yet, so
    I wait for the response.\r\n\r\nThis is the poster I'll present to the client\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Poster_5174.jpg]\r\n\r\nCheers!
    \ \r\n__________________________________________________\r\nFischers Fritz fischt
    frische Fische, frische Fische fischt Fischers Fritz"
  created: '2007-09-06 18:56:44'
- author:
    name: Christian Barca
    picture: 112373
  body: "Thanx Miss Tiffany\r\n__________________________________________________\r\nFischers
    Fritz fischt frische Fische, frische Fische fischt Fischers Fritz."
  created: '2007-09-06 18:57:49'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "Glad you took my advice, but I think you're playing with the Open Type features
    still -- the \"st\" ligature is no more a distraction. Also the phone number should
    be \"[...] 8 73 [...]\" and not \"[...] 87 3 [...]\".\r\n\r\nAbout losing the
    \"Operetta\" line -- I'm not sure why you did it."
  created: '2007-09-07 05:57:10'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "I'm surprised the poster is still in the making, given the whole time table.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    I don't see any reason why \"Eine Operette [...]\" should be center-aligned (to
    a non-existing \"center\") and not right-aligned."
  created: '2007-10-03 19:24:45'
- author:
    name: Christian Barca
    picture: 112373
  body: "Hello everyone!\r\n\r\nJust want to update this thread. It took me almost
    three weeks, but anyway i'm back on track with the image. As you can see, I had
    to illustrate the birds. The client changed his mind. They want it colourful and
    flat. And the birds shouldn't look like \xABSpatzen\xBB anymore? I don't know
    the english name for \xABSpatzen\xBB, sorry for that! So this is what i came up
    with so far.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Version3_6713.jpg]\r\n\r\n__________________________________________________\r\nFischers
    Fritz fischt frische Fische, frische Fische fischt Fischers Fritz"
  created: '2007-10-03 19:53:00'
- author:
    name: Christian Barca
    picture: 112373
  body: "They started the pre production early, as you can see, they performance starts
    next year! That's also a reason that the client changes his mind all the time.
    Anyway, I like it so far and present this next week. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n__________________________________________________\r\nFischers
    Fritz fischt frische Fische, frische Fische fischt Fischers Fritz."
  created: '2007-10-03 20:03:03'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I think Spatzen are sparrow in English.\r\nI don't think they were sparrows
    to begin with? ;)\r\n\r\n<em>Edited this post purely so it is back below Christians
    last post, where it was before he edited his post. ;)</em>"
  created: '2007-10-03 23:35:08'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "OK, I don't quite understand why you changed the text blocks all from ragged
    to block, but it doesn't look so bad.\r\n\r\nHowever, the typographic quotes you
    use are definitely wrong -- in German the typographic quotes have to point inwards,
    not outwards. Actually I also don't see any reason why the line should be in quote
    at all -- it isn't a quote from anyone or anywhere.\r\n\r\nSince the date is written
    in full, \"2008\" shouldn't be abbreviated to \"08\".\r\n\r\nAnd in contrary to
    what I've written before, the last line containing the phone number should be:
    \"[...] Telefon: 062 8730844\". Apparently, the relevant DIN standard has been
    updated a few years ago, which I've been unaware of until now:\r\n\r\nhttp://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rufnummer#Schreibweise_in_Deutschland_und_.C3.96sterreich\r\n\r\nBut
    in any case, the colon after \"Telefon\" is mandatory as otherwise the sentence
    would be grammatically incorrect."
  created: '2007-10-04 02:19:21'
- body: "If it were me, I'd give the whole layout some air. To my eye, too many elements
    are competing for the focal point. Have you tried a more traditional poster layout?
    I sketched it out roughly;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Version3_6713_shuffled_6536.jpg]"
  created: '2007-10-04 06:07:50'
- author:
    name: Christian Barca
    picture: 112373
  body: "Thanx for you comments.\r\n\r\n@Henry\r\n\r\n\xABin German the typographic
    quotes have to point inwards, not outwards\xBB\r\n\r\nYeah that's true, but in
    Switzerland it is the opposite. We do it the french way. Anyway you right, I don't
    need them there. So I'll get rid off them. I'm not shure how the phone number
    should be set, again in Switzerland we have some other ways of doin things. I'll
    have to do some research! \r\n\r\n@Alaskan\r\n\r\nSorry, but this doesn't work
    for me. It's too conservativ, traditional and the readability is gone. About the
    focal Point: I imagine someone gets off the bus and sees the poster hangin at
    a wall and reconizes the birds first, the logo second and the info copy at last,
    but doesen't have to do a step forward to read each off them. I might have to
    try that with a test audience, to be sure it works. Thanx anyway, it's a good
    point.\r\n\r\n\r\n__________________________________________________\r\nFischers
    Fritz fischt frische Fische, frische Fische fischt Fischers Fritz."
  created: '2007-10-04 13:03:02'
- body: "\r\nI see your points, Christian, I just thought I saw a way to make the
    birds stand out more.  I was trying to give the birds and the logo more harmony
    -- they seem from different eras? \r\n\r\nJust curious -- what size is the poster? "
  created: '2007-10-04 16:11:13'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "I agree with Alaskan that an asymmetrical layout is definitely worth exploring
    -- although I disagree with his suggestion that the birds need to \"stand out
    more\".\r\n\r\nThe proportions in his quick example does appear completely unusable.
    In case you don't know, Alaskan, the print size of the poster is actually irrelevant
    regarding readability. In any paged layout, all elements should be readable from
    a distance that's equal to the diagonal length of the page. The proportions in
    your example would clearly fail that test.\r\n\r\nBTW, I totally fail to see how
    an asymmetrical layout is \"more traditional\". If anything, it's the opposite."
  created: '2007-10-05 01:04:39'
- author:
    name: Christian Barca
    picture: 112373
  body: "Maybe traditional in the term of the way they teach us at school! I remember
    the class we had about typographical layouts, I think I wasn't so good at it.
    But I remember that we had 23 different ways of doin a layout, each student came
    up with a solution. My solutuion should be in the criteria as mentioned in the
    post above.\r\n\r\n\xABthey seem from different eras?\xBB\r\n\r\nYeah, there are.
    The logotype is based on art nouveau letters. The bird cage is clip art and the
    birds?? Lazy afternoon trash, I would say.    \r\n__________________________________________________\r\nFischers
    Fritz fischt frische Fische, frische Fische fischt Fischers Fritz."
  created: '2007-10-05 05:50:46'
- author:
    name: Christian Barca
    picture: 112373
  body: "The size would be from A6 to A0.\r\n__________________________________________________\r\nFischers
    Fritz fischt frische Fische, frische Fische fischt Fischers Fritz."
  created: '2007-10-05 05:54:02'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "I like using an illustration much better than the photo. The poster is complex
    and interesting. It would get my attention. Nice work!\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2007-10-05 06:31:17'
date: '2007-08-19 00:37:29'
node_type: forum
title: Logo for operetta

---
