---
author:
  name: Steve Tiano
body: "To the tune of an old, old Genesis song: \"I can't draw, I can't paint. Only
  thing about me is the books that I make.\"\r\n\r\nSo what I'm saying is, I'd never
  think to design a new typeface. And I wonder what might go thru the mind of someone
  getting up one morning and thinking, \"Hey, I think I'll get started creating a
  new typeface today.\" In simple terms, I'm sure there's some kind of a desire to
  create letterforms that are clear to the reader, easy for eyes to follow, and appear
  somehow new--having some unique aspect to their appearance. But I'm only guessing.\r\n\r\nI've
  been considering that and just why one turns to designing type, as opposed to anything
  else, for a few days straight now. It's largely why I signed onto Typophile--and
  glad I am that I did.\r\n\r\nAnyhow, anyone care to oblige a newcomer with their
  take? "
comments:
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Well, I'm not in to designing type for too long yet, so my motivations are
    mainly that I just like (and always have) to draw lettershapes. So at this point
    I'm not really concerned with what people think of it. Or markets or potential
    usage. Well I am of course, but I'm not selling it anyway. My interest in typefaces
    was mostly sparked with general interest in typography itself.\r\nI don't know,
    I just really enjoy grabbing a piece of paper or my moleskine and doodle away
    with letterforms that have popped up. At the moment I'm more working on lettering
    than complete typefaces. Very bad answer to your question. I think some of the
    more hardcore type designers might give you better insight. ;)\r\n\r\nOh, and
    welcome to Typophile. :)"
  created: '2007-08-19 01:06:45'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "I just started designing typefaces too, but here are some potental motivations
    that come to mind:\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>to revive an old typeface: you see something
    around you on street signs or in an old book and you think to yourself \u201Cwow,
    that is beautiful, I would like to have it in digital\u201D. Revivalism is much
    more complicated than that, of course; sometimes you just want to explore more
    the tastes and letterforms of a certain period or a certain designer, and doing
    your own version of someone else\u2019s typeface helps retracing the steps he
    went through and the decisions he had to make;</li>\r\n<li>for a specific purpose:
    there are many situations that call for new typefaces. Think about advances in
    technology like fonts for computer or PDA screen, pixel fonts for mobile phones,
    etc. that call for new letterforms, or think about different versions of an existing
    typeface for new setting: maybe one of your clients uses a specific typeface for
    all its corporate image but they notice that when they use that font in posters
    or in very large settings it doesn\u2019t quite work. Then you need to draw a
    new weight or optical size or whatever\u2026;</li>\r\n<li>to scratch a technical
    itch: what happens if I take Bodoni and remove the serifs? <a href=\"http://www.yoworks.com/moderno/index.html\">Oh,
    I see</a>\u2026;</li>\r\n<li>I know some type designers that often start with
    an \xE6stetic research, trying new curves or shapes and see what they like\u2026;</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nOf
    course these are just a few ideas, but I hope you get the point. I felt as you
    do when I was getting interested in typography and then later in type design,
    I wondered where do these people got the inspiration to do what they did, but
    then studying the history of type design helped me see things a bit clearer.\r\n\r\nNow:
    from there to actually know how to create meaningful work, <em>that</em> is something
    that is still a mystery to me too."
  created: '2007-08-19 02:20:03'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Your first point is very good indeed, one of the first typefaces I did was
    a [[http://www.typophile.com/node/30568|trace of a forgotten woodtype]] I found
    somewhere. (I only put it on the crit board this year). I did a couple of things
    before that, but the woodtype digitization was my first face with a larger charmap.
    It seemed like a nice first step into typedesign. For the most part to learn the
    techical side like FontLab and bezier curves and such. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-19 02:34:27'
- author:
    name: Steve Tiano
  body: Thanks for the insight. I never thought of revival when I was considering
    why folks might wan to design typefaces. And I should have thought about new venues
    for books, as I was asked twice recently what I thought about designing books
    for cell phones.
  created: '2007-08-19 17:40:24'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "All the above reasons are good, although \"for a specific purpose\" or \"for
    a specific client\" seems to yield the best results.\r\n\r\nNowadays, I often
    think \"I've never tried my hand at (style of typeface) before. It seems challenging,
    maybe I should try something like that next.\"\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-08-20 03:26:25'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: For me, it's simply the thrill of the "I've never done this before..."
  created: '2007-08-20 15:01:12'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "My first typefaces were also revivals. \r\n\r\nOther than that, I think it's
    mainly doodling. \"Hey...that looks cool...that could be a font!\""
  created: '2007-08-20 15:06:46'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: 'Welcome, Steve! There is a thread from a couple of months ago that asks a
    similar question: <a href="http://typophile.com/node/34373"><strong>What''s your
    motivation to start designing a new typeface?</strong></a>'
  created: '2007-08-20 23:35:20'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Oh my, you are right. I completely forgot that thread, eventhough I posted
    in it.
  created: '2007-08-21 00:45:15'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "I think immediately of how rich and famous I will become. Then I wake up.
    Ha! Ha! \r\n\r\n[weeps silently into pillow]"
  created: '2007-08-21 02:17:02'
- author:
    name: Steve Tiano
  body: Thanks for the welcome, Ricardo. And for the link. I <i>will</i> check it
    out.
  created: '2007-08-21 03:30:54'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>I think immediately of how rich and famous I will become. Then I wake
    up. Ha! Ha!</em>\r\n\r\nWell, I just saw your Beorcana typeface mentioned by Unger
    in his presentation on [[http://www.esad.pt/personalviews/|ESAD Personal Views]].
    So it doesn't go entirely unnoticed either... ;)"
  created: '2007-08-21 03:47:28'
- author:
    name: Steve Tiano
  body: "Okay, first my thanks to Ricardo\u2014again\u2014for pointing me to [[http://typophile.com/node/34373|the
    earlier thread]]. There I found a link to [[http://www.fontshop.be/details.php?entry=161|An
    Intro to Type Design]]. I've already read both and asked Unzipper when \"the second
    and third episodes ... on the [type designer as] the craftsman and the technician
    respectively\" will appear.\r\n\r\nAfter that I went to Amazon and located a boatload
    of books on designing type, typefaces, and fonts. Too many looked worthwhile to
    buy any yet, so I started by ordering half a boatload of them from my public library.\r\n\r\nI
    cannot quite put my finger on why the interest at all, and why just now. But I
    find myself considering trying my hand at designing a typeface family purely as
    a creative exercise. I suppose it could make me a better book designer/typesetter/page
    compositor/typographer, etc. (I am never 100% sure what to call myself.) That
    said there are difficulties, and I definitely feel the need to expand some on
    all I'm saying here on [[http://www.tianodesign.com/blog|my blog]].\r\n\r\nI repeat:
    I do not draw or paint. Never felt I could.\r\n\r\nStill, I've decided that the
    the best reasons, <i>as I have gleaned from the earlier thread,</i> why one bothers
    to try to design a typeface, are:\r\n\r\n<i>as [new typefaces] are put out in
    the world and used they get associations attached to them. This of course can
    work for us in reinforcing the meaning that we are trying to communicate \u2026</i>\r\n\r\nI
    take this to mean that branding may take place. I\u2019m reminded of a certain
    bakery brand that\u2019s sold in NY\u2014I think I\u2019ve seen it in other parts
    of the country, too, but it originates here (on Long Island). I don\u2019t know
    that the typeface that their name is written in was created for them originally,
    but it is definitely identifiable as theirs. I first learned this when I noticed
    an auto body shop that I pass regularly had a sign that looked <i>so</i> familiar
    to me and yet I couldn\u2019t place why that it really bothered me. I stopped
    my car and stared for awhile. Driving away, I had an aha moment when I realized
    it was the same typeface as the bakery brand used.\r\n\r\n<i>making the type better
    for the reader</i>\r\n\r\nAs a book designer and layout artist that\u2019s my
    number one objective: to bring the author\u2019s work to readers clearly and in
    a way that is easy on their eyes. I want to encourage them to read the book completely
    and with maximum comprehesion.\r\n\r\n<i>\u2026 arrogance and vanity. Possibly.</i>\r\n\r\nAll
    the above goes to my simplified  take,  if you will, on why I might want to try
    my hand at designing a typeface family. My reasons are not necessarily good ones;
    they obviously are not the only reasons to take on such a project. That said,
    I move on to figuring just what this entails.\r\n\r\nMy list of physical tasks
    to do may not be complete. I may be unaware of any number of steps. And my steps
    could be out of a correct order. Please let me know what I m missing and where
    I ve gone wrong.\r\n\r\nFirst a question. I use the word  draw  below, for want
    of any other better term. It sounds to easy:  Draw a letterform.  Is that done
    in a piece of software such as Adobe Illustrator and then get brought into a piece
    of software such as Font Pro, either one character t a time or as a whole alphabet?\r\n\r\nOkay,
    two questions. When does one think about kerning tables? After all letterforms
    are drawn, I presume? And then letters are paired off in every combination to
    see how they look best, after which one uses software to build the kerning tables?\r\n\r\nPlease
    excuse the ignorance of these questions. As soon as I get my hands on the books
    I ve ordered, I can begin to do some research of my own. But I m too pumped with
    curiosity to just sit and wait for books to arise; hence I ask here. Maybe I will
    decide it s all too much work for someone who does not draw.\r\n\r\nThat said,
    here s my list ...\r\n\r\n1. Draw the upper-case alphabet, including text numbers
    and punctuation.\r\n2. Draw the lower-case alphabet, including symbols asterisks,
    dagger, double daggers, etc.\r\n3. Decide what ligatures to include typically,
    fl, ff, ffl, fi. As these are off the top of my head only, what others should
    there be?\r\n4. Draw numbers for use in settings where they need to align on a
    decimal point i.e., tables, fractions, equations. I forget how this  class  of
    numbers is referred to.\r\n5. Repeat above steps for italic, bold, bold italic,
    small caps, subscript, and superscript.\t\r\n\r\nGoes without saying my list is
    way simplified. But did I get the gist of it?"
  created: '2007-08-21 23:58:58'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "Steve: I say go for it. As clich\xE9 as it may sound, regardless of the result
    the journey alone is more than worth it for someone working in book design and
    dealing with type every day. It will make you question what it is exactly that
    you like in a typeface and better understand why certain things are drawn in a
    certain way. I\u2019m not saying this from the ivory tower of a million accomplishments,
    I\u2019m saying this from someone who used to be in your position just about eight
    months ago. If anything else, you will have a completely different viewpoint on
    typefaces and on the work that stands behind them (or lack thereof in some poor
    cases).\r\n\r\nAs for the process I don\u2019t think there is \u201Ca better way\u201D.
    I\u2019m very bad at hand-drawing so every once in a while I doodle a bit on my
    notebook then if something catches my inerest I reproduce it on the computer.
    I don\u2019t usually scan stuff and trace it because my drawings are quite poor
    at the moment so tracing them wouldn\u2019t help in any way. I found I get better
    results if I draw the letterforms on-screen, although of course I\u2019m also
    working on improving my drawing skills as they are essential to understand how
    letterforms are built. I also draw on paper when I am unsure about contrast in
    certain glyphs, sometimes.\r\n\r\nAs for the order of glyphs to design, I was
    watching a <a href=\"http://www.esad.pt/personalviews/\">lecture by Erik Spiekermann</a>
    yesterday where he stated that the basic \u201Cfeel\u201D of a text typeface is
    in the letters that are used most, which are a n e and s. After you\u2019ve drawn
    the n, you can easily go from there to h m l i and u with a bit of tweaking, and
    that helps you get a feel for what your typeface will look like, what the x-height
    will be, how much contrast you\u2019re going to put between the strokes, etc.\r\n\r\nI
    find that it\u2019s easier for me to start with these base glyphs to build some
    momentum, start typing little words and checking out how they look, and then I
    can move on to draw all the rest of the lowercase, uppercase, numerals, diacritics\u2026
    but that\u2019s just the way I usually do things. Claudio Piccinini, a type designer
    friend of mine, once said to me he often starts from the numerals to get a feel
    for a typeface and then proceeds from there.\r\n\r\nGood luck!"
  created: '2007-08-22 00:53:52'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "To start, I'm not a very experienced type designer myself, but here's my
    two cents.\r\n\r\nA 1: I usually draw letterforms by hand, on a piece of paper.
    After that I scan and bring it to a piece of software, like Illustrator or directly
    into the font software, like FontLab Studio. And I then trace the scans to get
    the vectors. That is usally done one character at a time. But you can start off
    directly on the computer, however for me drawing it by hand is more natural and
    faster. You can try different approaches very easily. As Antonio already mentioned
    (and Erik Spiekermann obviously) starting with letters like a, n, e and s can
    be helpful, because those have the general shapes most letters are made of.\r\n\r\nA
    2: Kerning is usually done at the later stages. Kerning is done in the font software
    itself, again like FontLab or something, and it usually builds the kerning tables
    as well.\r\n\r\nAnd it looks like your list is quite complete, although it does
    make it look easy. ;) It also looks like you want to design a very elaborate typeface,
    maybe try something simpeler first, like one weight with numerals and punctuation/diacritics?
    But then again, you could also just go for it!"
  created: '2007-08-22 01:06:42'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "Very important: don\u2019t bother starting with kerning until you have finalised
    the spacing. It\u2019s usually something you do in the font editor as well, after
    having drawn the outlines although Walter Tracy in <cite>Letters of Credit</cite>
    says that it\u2019s a good idea if the letterforms are not exactly final because
    you may want to tweak them to improve fit. After doing all the spacing you can
    move on to kerning."
  created: '2007-08-22 01:12:24'
- author:
    name: Steve Tiano
  body: "Thank you, Quincunx and Vervosus. (By the way, Quincunx, are you an astrologer,
    too? I ask because a quincunx is, of course, a 150\xB0 aspect between two planets
    (counting the Moon and Sun as \"planets\"). But I digress ...\r\n\r\nIt's not
    my intention to create a particularly elaborate font, just one that is complete
    enough to lay out any of the books I've ever worked on, a number of which had
    heavy math and equations in them.\r\n\r\nOkay, so at best I might sketch on graph
    paper. But if I do this\u2014first off, it'll be a long-term project, in between
    work\u2014I'll then draw in Illustrator. (By \"vectors\" you do mean from inside
    a vector drawing program like Illy, yes?)\r\n\r\nHell, diacritics\u2014forgot
    about them. Oy, this'll be a really long-term labor of love, because I really
    haven't the slightest idea about how to create spacing, for instance.\r\n\r\nI
    better get hold of the books I ordered from the library, start reading, and make
    some decisions about what to buy."
  created: '2007-08-22 02:56:42'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Hehe, no, I got the name from Charles Palliser's book 'Quincunx'. But the
    other meanings of it I found also interesting. (The mathematical things, the arrangement
    of items like a 5 on a dice, etc.)\r\n\r\nOn topic:\r\nYes, graph paper should
    work. \r\nWith 'vectors' I mean from a vector program like Illy indeed. But FontLab
    and other font-applications also use vectors. B\xE9ziers! ;)\r\n\r\nSpacing is
    created in font-software by means of the 'sidebearings'. Basically two lines,
    one on each side of a glyph. You can change the distance of these lines to the
    glyphs. The space <em>between</em> these lines is considered part of the glyph,
    basically white space on both sides of a letter. So an 'a' might have a <em>right</em>
    sidebearing of 25 (space between the letter itself and the line), and an 'e' might
    have a <em>left</em> sidebearing of 44, making the spacing between these characters
    69 units.\r\nAfter this spacing, these spaces can be optically adjusted with kerning.\r\n\r\nHm,
    that might be pretty badly explained. But it's late here."
  created: '2007-08-22 03:32:26'
- author:
    name: Steve Tiano
  body: "Thanks for the answer, Quincunx. It would appear that I'm getting a little
    of what I've started to read.\r\n\r\nOkay, last two questions of the night. First
    ... So when you're working with these side bearings, are there any \"rules of
    thumb\" for hw to decide on how much space surrounds a glyph; or is it done strictly
    by sight and what looks good to the designer?\r\n\r\nAnd finally ... are there
    any newsgroups for beginning typeface designers?\r\n\r\nMerci and bon soir."
  created: '2007-08-22 04:12:51'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" \u201Crules of thumb\u201D for how to decide on how much space surrounds
    a glyph\"\r\n\r\nSure. There is to be less space between two \"n's\" than there
    is inside one n. H too. Get these two right,. Make the space on the left side
    of \"D and p\" visually equal to the same space in H and n respectively. Set the
    D's right, (round) side so it looks balanced between two H's. Transferr that round
    side bearing from \"D\" to both sides of the \"O\" (and \"p\" to \"o\"). Now balance
    V and v between H's and O's, (n's and o's) and you have three of the four major
    sidebearing types, (misc. being the other). Fiddle as required.\r\n\r\n\"And finally
    ... are there any newsgroups for beginning typeface designers?\"\r\n\r\nI think
    this is it.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-22 13:02:49'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: 'Tips on how to set the sidebearings are also in ''Designing Type'' by Karen
    Cheng, on page 220. Which is taken from ''Letters of Credit: A View of Type Design''
    by Walter Tracy. A clear list with visual explanation, which is very handy. It
    handles the things David commented above this post, basically, only then the whole
    alphabet.'
  created: '2007-08-22 14:11:56'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: 'Steve: regarding spacing there is also the article <a href="http://www.typeculture.com/academic_resource/articles_essays/pdfs/tc_article_20.pdf"><cite>Basic
    Character Spacing in Type Design</cite></a> by Mark Jamra which you can download
    in PDF from the TypeCulture Web site.'
  created: '2007-08-22 14:30:16'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Steve, if your browser allows you to use the search function, you will find
    plenty of links to how-tos on typeface design. (Alternately, you can search on
    Google and type \"in Typophile\" after your keywords.)\r\n\r\nAlso, if you haven't
    heard of these sites, here are some links:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://briem.ismennt.is/\"><strong>Type,
    handwriting, and lettering</strong></a> (Gunnlaugur Briem's site)\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.typeworkshop.com/index.php?id1=type-basics\"><strong>type
    basics workshop</strong></a> (on Underware's site)\r\n\r\nHope these are helpful!"
  created: '2007-08-22 17:46:33'
- author:
    name: James Grieshaber
    picture: 110551
  body: This is a broad question. Or maybe I think it is, because there are so many
    considerations when designing a typeface. But I think foremost, I have to have
    an idea to do something unique or better than it has been done in the past. There
    is so much work involved in creating a commercial font that it doesn't seem worth
    while to me to do something mundane or useless.... although I do have that opinion
    of my fonts sometimes. I have so many started fonts that I think  are ugly, useless,
    novel, or just look like something else I have seen before. So they just sit on
    my hard drive forever.
  created: '2007-08-22 18:14:38'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "For me it\u2019s a mix of a strange drug/addiction and a \"want-to-know-how-it-ends-up-finished-desire\".
    At least when it comes to my own creations. \r\n\r\nI also have a mysterious feeling
    that I sometime might be able to do something very original that will mess around
    with the heads of the people who claims there is no need for new typefaces.\r\n\r\nAnd
    finally. It\u2019s so unbelievable interesting to see a new typeface grow from
    an idea into a full working font that can be used for communcation and help other
    express themselves.\r\n\r\nWelcome to Typophile."
  created: '2007-08-22 21:41:32'
- author:
    name: Steve Tiano
  body: "First, a question: Are my posts here too long. I'm trying to be concise,
    but obviously not keeping them short. Anyway, I apologize for that. I must admit
    to being really excited by this.\r\n\r\nMy thanks to those of you who've answered
    in this latest flurry.\r\n\r\nI begin to see what a monumental task this whole
    biz of creating a complete typeface family is. The beauty of it is that I'm getting
    interested enough in it at the same time that I have no interest in working as
    a professional type designer. I like making books. So I have no pressing issues
    re: time\u2014unlike with my book design and production work.\r\n\r\nThat raises
    another question that is apropos of nothing: How many of you typeface designers
    also work in page design\u2014specifically in publishing, making book pages? How
    about advertising? How many of you are promarily page designers who also design
    type? Or does it pretty much turn out the other way around?\r\n\r\nQuincunx, it
    may be correct that Typophile is <i>the</i> place for beginning typeface designers.
    I certainly can't imagine anywhere more helpful than you folks here. But it's
    all so interesting to me at this stage that I want to read more online. That's
    why I've ordered a bunch of books from the public library, so I can narrow it
    down to a handful of books to buy. And it's most gratifying to see that the first
    or second book that caught my eye and that I ordered is the Karen Cheng book,
    <i>Designing Type.</i> I've also just downloaded the Jamra article.\r\n\r\nRicardo,
    believe me, throughout the last few days of asking questions and reading answers,
    I've been googling all manner of type design issues. I haven't, however, gotten
    as far as the coupla sites you mentioned. I'll be looking at them after I get
    done with some work on some booklets and their covers that I'm laing out for a
    publisher out west.\r\n\r\nJames, I'm just beginning to appreciate how broad the
    initial question I asked is, as well as just how many directions I've headed off
    in with my follow-ups. I agree that one of the difficulties almot certainly is
    the task of creating something unique and worthwhile. That is part of the appeal
    to me. But I must also admit that I'm likely to be something of a pleasure traveller,
    and not someone looking to create a whole roster of commercially available fonts.\r\n\r\nFInally,
    I've been looking into Fontlab. It's an expensive proposition direct from the
    maker, $699. And yet when I search for it on sites like MacWorld's comparison
    shopping area, or dealmac.com, or even a specific mail-order house like MacMall,
    I can't find anything called FontLab. SSo does anyone know if there's anyplace
    sells it for less than full retail?\r\n\r\nAs always, thanks very much.\r\n\r\nSteve
    TIano"
  created: '2007-08-23 01:01:47'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I don't find your posts too long.\r\nCreating a typeface usually is a very
    monumental task indeed. Some of the better typefaces out there have been designed
    over the course of several years. You don't need to spent several years per s\xE9
    to create a good typeface, but it does take a lot of time.\r\nBut of course it
    all depends how much time you want to spend on it, and how well you want to execute
    your design. The things I have done in type design usually took me 2 or 3 months.\r\n\r\n>
    <em>How many of you typeface designers also work in page design\u2014specifically
    in publishing, making book pages?</em>\r\n\r\nTo answer your question; I am mostly
    working on graphic design, and also books/book pages. I'm experimenting with type
    design purely because it interests me. I've always been interested in typography
    itself, and from there I got interested in the letters and typefaces themselves.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I would just try some things, doodle a bit, draw a couple of alphabets. Worry
    about being very unique and worthwhile later. At least that is what I was/am doing.
    You need some sort of introduction to the whole design process first. When you
    somewhat mastered that, you can always try to design something really unique.\r\n\r\nAnd
    about FontLab, that is indeed quite expensive. I don't know if anyone sells it
    below that retail price. There are alternatives though. The developer of FontLab
    Studio also releases [[http://www.fontlab.com/font-editor/typetool/|TypeTool]],
    which is basically FontLab's little brother. That costs US $99. And [[http://www.fontlab.com/font-editor/fontographer/|Fontographer]],
    also from FontLab Ltd. $349, and even Open Source software like [[http://fontforge.sourceforge.net/|FontForge]],
    which is basically free. Which one of those is the better choice, I don't know.
    Others might have more experience comparing them."
  created: '2007-08-23 02:09:38'
- author:
    name: Steve Tiano
  body: "Hmmm ... I'll have to take a look at FontForge. I don't mind trying open
    source stuff. On the other hand, I'm stubborn about using \"little brother\" software
    like TypeTool, when the industrial strength stuff exists. I'd hate to get to a
    point where it wasn't enough\u2014which sounds silly even to me, as I haven't
    done a thing yet. But I'll have to look at both of them closely.\r\n\r\nFontLab's
    just not an option right now, given its price, as I still need to replace my PowerBook
    which died last winter. It sounds to me like your direction into type design is
    not so far off from mine, book designer/layout artist who's getting more and more
    interested in typography."
  created: '2007-08-23 04:30:36'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>...I haven\u2019t, however, gotten as far as the coupla sites you mentioned.
    I\u2019ll be looking at them after I get done with some work...</em>\r\n\r\nBriem's
    site is great and has plenty of good advice.\r\n\r\n<em>How many of you typeface
    designers also work in page design\u2014specifically in publishing, making book
    pages? How about advertising? How many of you are promarily page designers who
    also design type?</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think I can call myself a typeface designer
    -- my training is in graphic design, but I've always had a thing for type. I have
    a few unfinished typefaces on my hard drive, which I work on when I can. (The
    only thing I've finished so far is not a design of my own, but a digitization
    of Ward Sutton's hand lettering, which he used in his <a href=\"http://www.villagevoice.com/news/0716,sutton,76368,9.html\">Sutton
    Impact</a> strip. But I digress.) My work these days is design and production
    for direct mail and advertising agencies, multilingual DTP, and medical publishing.
    In another life I did layout for magazines and schoolbooks. I would like to get
    into book design at some point -- interiors and/or covers."
  created: '2007-08-23 07:42:47'
- author:
    name: Steve Tiano
  body: "Getting into book design--any combination of interiors and covers is easier
    said than done. Then again, it's prob'ly all a matter of cultivating contacts
    and leveraging experience you already have. I'm about half again as busy as I
    thought I'd ever be when I started to freelance\u2014I'd taken it on, to start
    with, on a moonlighting basis intending to earn enough money to periodically upgrade
    computer equipment. A technojunkie, I was newly married and they might have seemed
    like just very expensive toys otherwise. And now, 15 years later, I'm about half
    as busy as I'd like to be--which is to say, I'd prefer to always have two books
    going and two waiting in the wings. And <i>not</i> at $4 per page!\r\n\r\nAnd
    I digressed. I think what I need is to \"go to school.\" So as soon as I get the
    word that my boatload of books has started arriving, I'll be diving in. And I
    guess what I need to do is add FontLab Studio 5 to my wishlist, along with the
    17\" MacBook Pro that I need to replace my deceased PowerBook with. I need to
    be able to work away from my studio.\r\n\r\nI'll be in touch."
  created: '2007-08-23 13:24:26'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Thanks for your thoughts on book design work, Steve -- much appreciated.\r\n\r\nAs
    for designing typefaces, I think you can tell from some of the posts on this and
    another of your threads that it can be an all-consuming passion. Oh, and you might
    enjoy <a href=\"http://voice.aiga.org/content.cfm/rebel-without-a-caslon\"><strong>this
    interview with Font Bureau's Cyrus Highsmith</strong></a>. He gave a talk at the
    <a href=\"http://www.tdc.org/\"><strong>Type Directors Club</strong></a> recently
    and compared designing a typeface to making a kit of parts, an analogy I like."
  created: '2007-08-23 17:21:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I\u2019m stubborn about using \u201Clittle brother\u201D software like TypeTool,
    when the industrial strength stuff exists. I\u2019d hate to get to a point where
    it wasn\u2019t enough\r\n\r\nIf you get seriously into type design, FontLab is
    probably in your future. I see on the FontLab site that if you buy Type Tool first,
    then upgrade to FontLab when and if you need to, you only lose about $10 compared
    to buying FontLab up front.  "
  created: '2007-08-23 17:38:28'
- author:
    name: Steve Tiano
  body: Well, I've about decided to gove FontForge a try. It's hard to turn down open-source
    pricing. And given how little I know, scant investigation that I've done it reveals
    tools that seem to be able to do about all I can imagine needing to do so far.
    Anyone think I'd be wasting my time starting out with FontForge?
  created: '2007-08-23 17:52:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Anyone think I\u2019d be wasting my time starting out with FontForge?\r\n\r\nI
    don't know FontForge, but given that there is a learning curve for any of the
    programs, yes, I feel you risk wasting time by going with it. My impression is
    that some software people use it, but not the design community. "
  created: '2007-08-24 03:16:12'
- author:
    name: Steve Tiano
  body: Is that true? Would most of you agree that I should forget about FonForge
    for anything serious?
  created: '2007-08-24 18:11:26'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Well, I haven't used FontForge, so I can't comment on that. But I wanted
    to mention it, since it is Open Source.\r\nBut I guess William is right in a sense.
    It would be a waste of time if you start learning one app, and that you have to
    start over again when you get another.\r\nI don't know exactly what the difference
    is between TypeTool and FontLab when it comes to functionality, but I think the
    GUI is quite similar. If you eventually want to go to FontLab, but haven't got
    the money now, I guess TypeTool should be a logical first step.\r\n\r\nMaybe if
    you ask a software specific question on the 'Build' board, you might get answers
    from people other than me (read: people with more expertise). Or maybe on 'General'.
    I don't know... it seems that the software-connaisseurs aren't reading this thread.
    ;)"
  created: '2007-08-25 01:45:40'
- author:
    name: Steve Tiano
  body: Will do. Thank you.
  created: '2007-08-25 09:47:39'
- author:
    name: Gary Long
    picture: 112662
  body: "As a book designer/typesetter I'm always trying to find the perfect typeface
    to match the subject matter and tone of the manuscript. The idea that there might
    be a \"universal\" text typeface suitable for setting anything is always alluring.
    Most typefaces have some characteristic, no doubt wisely, that gives them just
    enough personality to render them unsuitable for every single purpose. Or they
    lack something that would be needed. Sometimes the roman is very all-encompassisng,
    as far as suitable uses, but the italic has too much personality.\r\n\r\nSo my
    motivation to design a text typeface came from the conceit that I could create
    one containing every feature I ever wanted in one, while at the same time not
    containing anything I disliked about any of the typefaces I've ever used. A typeface
    that could be use for anything. Obviously an impossible goal, but that's what
    got me started."
  created: '2007-08-26 17:29:54'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Steve, you can download a TypeTool demo <a href=\"http://www.fontlab.com/font-editor/typetool/\"><strong>here</strong></a>...\r\n\r\n...and
    a FontLab demo <a href=\"http://www.fontlab.com/font-editor/fontlab-studio/download-fontlab-studio/\"><strong>here</strong></a>.\r\n\r\nFontLab
    has a steeper learning curve than TypeTool, but as stated above, the interfaces
    are supposed to be similar."
  created: '2007-08-27 04:15:36'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Gee,\r\nthis Genesis song for me is not OLD at all..;-)\r\n\r\n..and there
    is in fact more earth than sea.."
  created: '2007-08-29 18:53:43'
date: '2007-08-19 00:51:59'
node_type: forum
title: So What Are You Thinking When You Decide to Design a New Typeface?

---
