---
author:
  name: rondomingue
  picture: 112412
body: "I recently blogged about <a href=\"http://rondomingue.com/2007/08/18/designcomics/\">typography
  in comics</a> on my site. It was however brief and I like to go a bit more in depth
  with the concept on this forum. I worked in production/design at two comic book
  companies and the insistence of doing the word balloons and hand-lettered look always
  annoyed me. However, little has changed in typography for comics over the years,
  save perhaps the use of Adobe Illustrator to recreate the same dated look. Comics
  seem to suffer a  permanent retrograde cycle when it comes to lettering when other
  aspects of it has evolved such as the art, coloring and paper quality.\r\n\r\nI
  cite two examples of books that break the boundary for comic book lettering. Both
  <a href=\"http://www.punksthecomic.com/\">Punks</a> and <a href=\"http://www.comicbookresources.com/news/preview.php?image=previews/imagecomics/nightlynews/01/cbrpage4-5_FINAL.jpg\">The
  Nightly News</a> do a terrific job at achieving some level of professionalism with
  the typography. I was curious if anybody else interested in comics can provide other
  examples. I know this has been under discussion here before I think its worth revisiting.\r\n\r\n<a
  href=\"http://www.comicraft.com/\">Comiccraft</a> is regarded as comics premiere
  font foundry although I'm concerned that they perpetuate the current style and rarely
  step outside of the established type styles. No slight to Comiccraft but its more
  of what the major publishers are looking for, than what they are willing to innovate
  with their typefaces. I would very much like to see other foundry's be involved
  and help innovate an industry thats badly in need of a typographic overhaul."
comments:
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: <a href="http://www.blambot.com">Blambot</a> does some nice comic-book font
    work.
  created: '2007-08-20 14:45:19'
- author:
    name: rondomingue
    picture: 112412
  body: You see I would have to disagree. That style is preaching to the old choir.
    I would love to see elements from the Swiss style used in comics as it would introduces
    elements of traditional design rather than the old adolescent comic book feel.
    Maybe its just me but I'm not a fan of the standard comic fonts.
  created: '2007-08-20 14:50:06'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: OK. Fair enough. I see where you're going with this now.
  created: '2007-08-20 14:54:11'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>Maybe its just me but I\u2019m not a fan of the standard comic fonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    was a big comic book reader when I was a kid, which may explain why I am such
    a Blambot lover. \r\n\r\nAlso I can't dance, but it just makes me appreciate those
    kids on \"So You Think You Can Dance\" show. Similarly, I can't write very well,
    so I am enthralled with neat handwriting styles.\r\n\r\nSo to each their own.
    But if you want to see some unlikely type used in comic balloons, I submit <strong>[[http://www.fontplay.com/comicballoons.htm|my
    two comic balloon pages.]]</strong>\r\n; )\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-20 15:20:32'
- author:
    name: rondomingue
    picture: 112412
  body: Oh I love the actual hand lettered style but that's not the case anymore its
    rarely if ever hand drawn today. I was heavily influenced by it as well. I'm looking
    for a progression in comic book typography, right now it only comes in one flavor.
  created: '2007-08-20 15:34:45'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Well, readability will always be a consideration. In Nightly News the small
    size seemed to push that boundary a bit far. But I like the idea of what they
    are doing. You could use almost any of your favorite text fonts in those fields.\r\n\r\nPunks
    was sort of thrashed looking, so I can't imagine submersing myself in that for
    hours like I did with Mickey, Green Lantern, Casper and friends."
  created: '2007-08-20 15:38:07'
- author:
    name: rondomingue
    picture: 112412
  body: "I suppose but I think the fact that very few are trying to push it is a concern.
    When I was working in comics, anytime I suggested that I like to try and letter
    anything in other than the standard comic font it was considered taboo. I think
    it would be a matter of a  publisher letting go of their old comic sensibilities.
    I guess I see type innovation in comics so rarely that it baffles me that other
    methods have been adopted more readily\u2014like the art, coloring and overall
    production\u2014but lettering seems to wallow in old-school mediocrity."
  created: '2007-08-20 16:05:39'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "The examples on your blog have text that's too small to read or make typographic
    judgements. The images however appear hand-made. Isn't that the point of the lettering
    too? To look hand-made? Perhaps you could show visually in a side/by/side the
    kind of changes you'd make, if \"the man\" weren't holding you back.\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si"
  created: '2007-08-20 16:22:08'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "Have you seen Paul Dini's (writer) run on  [[http://www.dccomics.com/comics/?cm=7425
    | Detective Comics]]? I think it's used some interesting type selections in the
    dialogue and other lettering. The book has an \"old school\" feel, so much of
    the artwork is art deco, and some of the lettering is designed to reflect that.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure who did the lettering on the book, I don't have the book in front of
    me.\r\n\r\nJason C"
  created: '2007-08-20 16:26:41'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">The examples on your blog have text that\u2019s too small to read or make
    typographic judgments.\r\n\r\nFollowing the links I see there are larger examples,
    but still not large enough. The Punks publication seems to use all-caps Myriad
    Condensed, with some kind of image-wash filter applied. Is that what's considered
    innovation? I suppose if all the banks and corporations that use Myriad were to
    switch to a comicraft font, that might be considered innovative too ;-)  \r\n"
  created: '2007-08-20 16:28:28'
- author:
    name: rondomingue
    picture: 112412
  body: "Si,\r\n\r\nDon't get me wrong I'm not dismissing hand-lettering. I'm commenting
    on how few try to do anything different. I think we see traditional typography
    touch so many facets of commercial art but comics seem to remain isolated with
    their own rules for lettering. \r\n\r\nJason,\r\n\r\nNo I haven't seen the Detective
    book but I like to see it. I think that was also the goal of this discussion\u2014I
    wanted to see other examples of good typography in comics. I don't think anybody
    wants to dismantle the old comic look but I suggesting there are more ways to
    skin that cat. I would love to see Hoefler-Frere, Emigre, T-26, or Linotype typefaces
    used in a comic book application. "
  created: '2007-08-20 16:38:27'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "More info on the Detective Comics (featuring Batman) I mentioned before.
    This page has some preview images of one of the books in the series: [[http://www.comicbookresources.com/news/newsitem.cgi?id=7152|Detective
    Comics Preview]] Of the six thumbnails shown for Detective Comics #821, see the
    middle one in the top row. Much of the dialogue is in a standard pseudo-handwritten
    font, but the descriptive boxes use alternate fonts which were chosen to go with
    the artwork. (I know it's hard to see in these low res images.)\r\n\r\nAlthough
    this is somewhat separate from this discussion, have you seen the Justice League
    of America book that Brad Meltzer was writing? The lettering for most character's
    dialogue was the same, but the balloons were colored differently depending on
    who was speaking. It was an interesting try. Some characters, like androids or
    monsters, used different typefaces which were supposed to represent their characters.\r\n\r\nJason
    C"
  created: '2007-08-20 17:03:44'
- author:
    name: rondomingue
    picture: 112412
  body: "Yeah some of the captioning is well lettered, very Art Deco. No I haven't
    seen the Justice League book but I was thinking the same thing in regards to avoiding
    the word balloons with the long  indication tails. I mean how cool would it be
    to see Superman talk with a caption indicated by his red, blue and yellow color
    scheme or Batman with his black and gray? \r\n\r\nI'm also very familiar with
    the balloons blocking parts of the art depending on how wordy a scene might be.
    Even the most skilled comic artist have been challenged with illustrating a scene
    and then some character reading the Preamble. I think it requires a well thought
    out idea of layout combined with copy that fits the story. That's why the most
    successful artist have also been writers, i.e. Frank Miller, Mike Mignola, Will
    Eisner, etc."
  created: '2007-08-20 17:22:17'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Hi, I wrote a little essay on sequential narratives etc. you may be interested
    in. It's on my site:\r\nhttp://www.lorepavesi.com/projects.htm\r\nIt's called
    graphic novels for graphic designers or something. Hope it helps."
  created: '2007-08-20 17:27:14'
- author:
    name: rondomingue
    picture: 112412
  body: "Lore, \r\n\r\nI like the examples you sited in your essay! Save for Maus
    (I have bit of an opinion on this), you give some nice commentary at a glance
    I'll be sure to read it more thoroughly when I have a chance.\r\n\r\nChris,\r\n\r\nI
    guess set type is something I'd rather see in a few books. I do however feel that
    the hand written look is appropriate for Hellboy, but someone like Ashley Wood
    may actually be served better if the Swiss style was applied, I think its density
    would compliment his art. I just used the Swiss style as an example but even a
    David Carson approach would be a welcomed divergence.\r\n\r\nComics in general
    is missing that typographic experimentation. There are really so few pioneers
    in that area and I would think especially in comics there would be more freedom
    to allow the lettering to become part of the art form. "
  created: '2007-08-20 17:52:50'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "Here's some images of what they've been doing in the Justice League book
    I mentioned earlier. My previous description missed some details. What they've
    done is retain the use of the tails on dialogue balloons, but in boxes representing
    thoughts, you can tell who's doing the thinking by which box color they use. for
    instance Superman \"thinks in blue\", as in one image on this page; \r\n\r\nSee
    in some of\r\n[[http://www.comictreadmill.com/CTMBlogarchives/2006/2006_Individual/2006_08/001191.php]]\r\n\r\nBatman
    thinks in gray, Wonder Woman in red, I think.\r\n\r\nJason C"
  created: '2007-08-20 18:08:54'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Thanks Ron, even if the essay doesn't exactly address typography you may
    find the bibliography and references useful.\r\nThere's no Batman like Dave McKean's
    Arkham Asylum. If you haven't seen it yet you should check it out. Typography
    is also very unusual. Love him to bits and he's my favourite superhero ever (which
    is a very embarrasing thing to admit in public, I know). My fav superhero recreated
    by my fav illustrator. Pure joy."
  created: '2007-08-20 19:11:10'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: Is today italic day? I see everything italic and I'm sober.
  created: '2007-08-20 19:11:50'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Ron, I absolutely agree that there's a dirth of typographic experimentation.
    I think part of it has to do with the separation of tasks within the industry.
    Most comics have writers and artists. It's rare when they do both, and most production
    schedules don't accommodate it.\r\n\r\nHowever, we're discussing non-mainstream
    books as well, where more collaborative work or single-artist works are more common.
    I think part of it is that comics are artist-centric, so their use of type tends
    towards that understanding. Often the subtle art of typography is too...different
    from the typical forms of visual expression, such as painting and drawing. Letters,
    words, and paragraphs carry an odd payload with them that can frighten away some
    from touching them at all. Others treat them as separate from the art, and their
    noodling just ends up widening that divide. Worst is when it makes the words harder
    to read. Word balloons are just safer, even with some typeface futzing/coloration.\r\n\r\nThis
    is a fasinating topic and I think there's a great deal of unexplored territory.
    I wish I had more time now to get into it. Perhaps I can dig around for some better
    examples later this evening."
  created: '2007-08-20 19:12:31'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "I must admit, I find many attempts to incorporate Swiss typography into comics
    to be ham-handed and a bit disposable. It reflects an better understanding of
    art than of type. The type they use is often too small or too dense to be appropriate.
    I like the aesthetic of <em>Punks</em>, but it's hardly Swiss modernist except
    that it uses sans serif typefaces. Other times, the type and art is so gorgeous
    on one spread and then just terrible on the next, as in Ashley Wood's <em>Lore</em>;
    beautiful painting and interesting type interspersed with pages and pages of poorly
    set Times New Roman. Ugh.\r\n\r\nI admit that I love hand-lettering in comics,
    so I do have a bias. <em>Jimmy Corrigan</em> by Chris Ware and <em>Hellboy</em>
    by Mike Mignola are two of my favorites, though there are others that do just
    as well that I can't think of at the moment. <a href=\"http://www.zompist.com/bob43.html\">Here's
    a nice Hellboy moment</a>.\r\n\r\nGenerally, I find set type to be overly rigid
    for the format, and often too detailed and dense, unless it's got some other element
    counter-balancing it. It feels out of place for me unless it's incorporated in
    a more 'graphic design-y' manner, rather than for dialogue. Brian Wood's <em>Channel
    Zero</em> is an example of this."
  created: '2007-08-20 19:13:01'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "<em>Is today italic day? I see everything italic and I\u2019m sober.</em>\r\n\r\nSorry,
    closed and em tag with an i. Fixed it. Though that seems to have kicked my edited
    post to the bottom, for some reason."
  created: '2007-08-20 19:14:42'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Mad magazine has used type in its word balloons and titles since the fifties.
    Supposedly, the reason for this was to distance Mad from the comic book form (and
    by extension the comics code authority by making it look more like a magazine.
    Before that, EC (which is where Mad came from) frequently used Leroy Lettering
    templates as a way to get a consistent look with many people working on the books.
  created: '2007-08-20 20:31:47'
- author:
    name: rondomingue
    picture: 112412
  body: "Chris, \r\n\r\nIt is indeed a fascinating topic and I think its worthy of
    some experimentation and research. I mean is it really about the readability?
    Or even the usability, I know we don't often think in those terms regarding comics
    and words with pictures is nothing new, but sequential art is another matter all
    together. You have different characters speaking all with different emotions and
    inflections. How do you translate that with typography or lettering?\r\n\r\nThis
    may sound a bit arrogant but I really don't think a lot of letterers come from
    a strong typographic background (neither did I) however, I do feel that a lot
    could be gained from comics if they started exploring some of the modernist or
    post-modernist style of typography. I mean could you imagine if David Carson lettered
    the Dark Knight or The Watchmen done in Frutiger?\r\n\r\nYou are also correct
    about the separation of disciplines having a lot to do with the disparaging differences
    in the final outcome of a comic. If you have one guy penciling, someone else inking,
    another person coloring and yet another person lettering you will definitely have
    a book that is not consistent in style regardless how harmonious the working relationship
    is.\r\n\r\nLore,\r\n\r\nDave McKean is super cool!\r\n\r\nSi,\r\n\r\nI missed
    your comment earlier about if banks and corporations started using Comcicraft
    fonts\u2014Would that be considered innovative? I guess innovation is the wrong
    word for what I'm suggesting for comic lettering. I just think there is an overall
    lack of traditional design in comics and a lot of the reason they fall behind
    artistically. They are hardly reflective of the contemporary art styles around
    them and that isn't always a bad thing, but it also seems to hardly gain any influences
    from the outside. Again not all books suffer from this stagnation but a majority
    of them do."
  created: '2007-08-20 20:40:41'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "This is starting to sound like a potential talk for TypeCon '08\r\n\r\nJason
    C"
  created: '2007-08-20 21:11:31'
- author:
    name: rondomingue
    picture: 112412
  body: "Unfortunately Type Con 2008 falls a week before the Comic-Con 2008. Be very
    difficult to attend both.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-20 21:26:19'
- author:
    name: "Kellie Str\xF8m"
    picture: 111448
  body: "While nearly all mainstream faux-handlettering for comics inhabits the range
    between dull and ugly, I'm not sure that most cases would be well served by trying
    to transfer over a typographic \xE6sthetic from other media.\r\n\r\nModernist
    type served Crockett Johnson\u2019s <A HREF=\"http://www.k-state.edu/english/nelp/purple/characters/cartoons.html\">Barnaby</A>
    well because Johnson's drawing style was starkly modernist. But think what a disappointment
    it would be to find Walt Kelly\u2019s Pogo appearing in Futura.\r\n\r\nThere's
    a similar issue in children\u2019s picture books. Often the type chosen looks
    harsh next to the artwork, and both suffer.\r\n\r\nIn comics and picture books
    artists need to be involved in the type, which means they need to learn about
    it."
  created: '2007-08-21 00:37:47'
- author:
    name: rondomingue
    picture: 112412
  body: "Kellie,\r\n\r\n\u201CIn comics and picture books artists need to be involved
    in the type, which means they need to learn about it.\u201D\r\n\r\nI totally agree,
    I guess that goes back to the creators having to educate themselves and being
    more a part of the entire process. \r\n\r\nOn a side note, Mike Mignola does hand-letter
    Hellboy which explains why it seems to fit the book\u2014the actual artist draws
    it and letters it. When I was at Wildstorm, Comicraft scanned Jeff Campbell\u2019s
    and Travis Charest\u2019s handwritten alphabet both lower and uppercases to create
    a typeface to use with their respective books. This worked well because the lettering
    seem to compliment the art better.\r\n\r\nAlso your avatar is very nice. What
    typeface is the ampersand from?"
  created: '2007-08-21 14:21:24'
- author:
    name: rondomingue
    picture: 112412
  body: Bloody double post, I wish we could delete comments.
  created: '2007-08-21 16:30:19'
- author:
    name: sara.witty
  body: I would recommend looking at Todd Klein and his various contributions to typography
    in comics. Particularly his work in Sandman and Promethea. There's also Gaspar
    Saladino's work in Arkham Asylum. I don't think the comics medium would benefit
    from the usage of already existing typefaces, regardless of their established
    awesomeness; the medium is best served by creators working specifically within
    the boundaries of the graphic style. And Saladino and Klein are just two examples
    of designers doing just that.
  created: '2007-08-21 19:09:27'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "<em>This is starting to sound like a potential talk for TypeCon \u201908</em>\r\n\r\nHmm....\r\n\r\n::strokes
    beard::"
  created: '2007-08-21 19:27:40'
- author:
    name: "Kellie Str\xF8m"
    picture: 111448
  body: "Ron, the ampersand is hand drawn, believe it or not it\u2019s from an unfinished
    comic strip!"
  created: '2007-08-21 19:44:45'
- author:
    name: rondomingue
    picture: 112412
  body: "Sara,\r\n\r\nI disagree that comics couldn't benefit from existing typefaces,
    thus the two examples of books I've given use existing typefaces. I think its
    whatever appropriate for that particular graphic style and you've given fine examples.
    \r\n\r\nCoincidentally there's a retrospective look at Todd Klein's work at <a
    href=\"http://goodcomics.comicbookresources.com/2007/08/20/365-reasons-to-love-comics-232/\">Comic
    Book Resources</a>, and in the comment section he credits Gaspar Saladino as his
    biggest influence."
  created: '2007-08-22 07:36:24'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "Although it's somewhat aside from this discussion, I should mention that
    in the comic strip \"Pogo\", Walt Kelly had some characters use distinctive lettering
    styles. Deacon Mushrat's dialogue was always lettered in a black letter style,
    while P.T. Bridgeport's dialogue resembled old Circus poster wood type. He also
    used a serif style whenever a character was singing.\r\n[[http://www.markmywords.ws/PogoPix/IMG_2818.jpg|Deacon
    Mushrat sample here]]\r\n[[http://www.idiom.com/~lexmark/pogopix/Jan%201/5-1-68.jpg|P.T.
    Bridgeport sample here]]\r\n\r\nOf course, Kelly was doing this in a daily comic
    strip, and did all the lettering by hand.\r\n\r\nJason C"
  created: '2007-08-22 14:31:26'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "I knew several people who worked at Marvel in the 1980s (and started Ren
    and Stimpy). all the work was done manually and the lettering was done by hand
    by the 'letterer'.\r\n\r\nthey always used Uppercase, Normal, Bold and Italic.
    In the middle to late 1980s there was an experimental digital comic that used
    an Amiga computer to do the graphics and letters but it didn't take off because
    it was very crude. \r\n\r\nAds in magazines where the only place for type. <a
    href=\"http://www.linotype.com/669/aboutthedesigner.html\">Neville Brody's Industria</a>
    was used a lot since it looked 'futuristic'.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/xray2_6293.jpg]"
  created: '2007-08-22 14:37:21'
- author:
    name: Sam M
  body: "Ouch. \r\n\r\nFirstly, i agree that comics, especially american comics, are
    way past due for a revolution.  Manga and collector culture destroyed the industry
    and made it a retro novelty rather than a mainstream art.\r\n\r\nBut as an occasional
    sequential artist, i thank hand rendered writing is best 99% of the time. Digital
    \"hand\" type is not always great, but at least it matches most art. Alot of times
    the font is poorly selected unfortunately.\r\n\r\nI think its really disturbing
    to see clean digital type on comics, like on the examples you gave - it just looks
    out of place, jarring, and i think sort of ugly. Some traditions should fade out
    (like the american comic book size format, and the inker/colorist/type guy assembly
    line), however i don't think hand drawn lettering is one of them.\r\n-----\r\n\r\n39smooth
    is an amazing, if very cartoony typeface. It is free, and i wish that most versions
    of it that you find weren't corrupty. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-22 17:06:49'
- author:
    name: Sam M
  body: And just to add to my comment, my rationale is that the "gold standard" should
    be that the type should be as close to matching the artist's hand or the artist(s)
    process as possible.  It would be perfectly fine for a more designy artist like
    ashley wood to use the full range of typographic elements - which of course he
    does and the results are fantastic.
  created: '2007-08-22 17:45:11'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: ">the \u201Cgold standard\u201D should be that the type should be as close
    to matching the artist\u2019s hand or the artist(s) process as possible.<\r\n\r\nI'm
    curious why this should be the gold standard. I don't necessarily disagree, but
    I'd like to hear some people's thoughts on why this should be the ultimate goal
    all the time. I was brought up on mainstream US comic books and strips, so my
    initial reaction is that the lettering should look like it was hand lettered,
    as this is what I'm used to. But I'm not sure that obeying tradition is enough
    reason to continue on as was always done before.\r\n\r\nTry to take a step back
    and look at the situation. Sequential art is (usually) a combination of illustration
    and lettering, and the tradition certainly has been to have an artist hand draw
    the lettering. However, lots of other media use combinations of illustration and
    lettering; book jackets, magazine illustration, album covers, just to name a few.
    Yet the lettering in these cases is sometimes typeset, and sometimes hand lettered.
    The ultimate goal is to achieve an aesthetically pleasing design, so the lettering
    needs to work hand in hand with the illustration. I'm not sure if sequential art
    is any different (may Eisner's spirit forgive me!) In many cases hand lettering
    would be appropriate, but in other cases it may not. Certainly in the field of
    sequential art there is an expansive range of illustration styles, so I expect
    that differing illustration (and layout) will call for different lettering solutions.
    \ Shouldn't each case be evaluated independently on the merits of the overall
    aesthetics?\r\n\r\nJason C"
  created: '2007-08-22 18:34:42'
- author:
    name: rondomingue
    picture: 112412
  body: "I don't think it should be the \u201Cgold standard\u201D either, however
    there should be some cohesion between the lettering and the art. A few comics
    are slowly departing from the \u201Cassembly line\u201D tradition. Inking was
    born out of the inability to photostat pencils. Now we are seeing \u201Cdigital
    inking\u201D, where the pencils are sharpened and darkened in Photoshop. Some
    artist are coloring their own work and a few are lettering as well. Some of these
    practices will lead to some amateurish processes but I thinks its all part of
    a larger growing pain for American comics. Hand lettering will always be around
    as well as the word balloon, I'm not denying that. There is a lot of room for
    better typography is all I'm suggesting. \r\n\r\n\r\nA lot of the \u201Cnorms\u201D
    for comics was born out of the old press methods and has changed very little.
    Comics have been stuck in a lot of traditional processes for quite some time.
    The fact that we have a blue uniform Batman is simply because inkers didn't want
    to fill in the blacks, so tradition stuck and solid blue was used often to translate
    as black. New artist didn't know Batman's uniform was black and just assumed it
    was intended to be blue. \r\n\r\nThe Japanese have indeed leap-frogged the Americans
    in terms of publication quality and format. Their hardcover books must be some
    of the finest design I've seen, even outside the comic genre. The Europeans have
    also took the lead in terms of story quality but that's another discussion altogether.
    \ "
  created: '2007-08-22 19:55:27'
- author:
    name: Sam M
  body: "\"The ultimate goal is to achieve an aesthetically pleasing design\" --\r\n\r\nWell,
    in comics you have to achieve something a little more than just a visually appealing
    design.  The goal really is to intertwine the text and art such that the reader
    can read the text in the story while simultaneously paying just as much attention
    to the action and feeling in the artwork. If this balance is off, you end up either
    just reading the dialogue and not really paying attention to the art, or you have
    trouble reading it at all and just end up looking at the art (I have that problem
    especially reading bill sienkewicz  comics)\r\n\r\ni think the words should appear
    as if they are existing in the world of the art - within the frame of the panel,
    not on top of it.  Digital bubbles floating on top of ink and watercolor always
    looks funny to me, and from a design standpoint, it is distracting.  But like
    you said, there are many different techniques - When it is all start-to-finish
    digital you don't have the same seperation, so its ok. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-22 19:58:22'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "true, Sam. Certainly Jhonen Vasquez' \"[[http://jcv.toykeeper.net/JTHM/images|Johnny
    the Homicidal Maniac]]\" needs to be hand lettered in his scratchy style. \r\n\r\nJason
    C"
  created: '2007-08-22 20:51:38'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Something I did many years ago from some free fonts made by Graham\r\n& Petra...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/welcomkarismalady_4406.jpg]"
  created: '2007-08-24 02:39:46'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "One with Harold's free fonts...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/barbeque_3543.jpg]"
  created: '2007-08-24 03:08:08'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Jason C, those Pogo samples are brilliant! Thanks for posting them. It's
    been ages since I've even glanced at Pogo.\r\n\r\nI think there's something very
    valuable and unique about the hand lettering in comics that has developed with
    the form, and type seems too rigid in most cases. I find that most uses of type
    in comics separate the voice from the character, which can be an effective visual
    characterization technique, but is usually just jarring. Narrative voice is usually
    my preferred use of type in comics.\r\n\r\nThough I'm sure much of this is reading
    best what you're most accustomed to."
  created: '2007-08-24 19:42:59'
- author:
    name: "Kellie Str\xF8m"
    picture: 111448
  body: Late notice, but there's <A HREF="http://tcj.com/messboard/viewtopic.php?t=2635&start=0&postdays=0&postorder=asc&highlight="
    target="_blank">another thread about this thread</A> over on the Comics Journal
    Message Board which has accumulated some good examples of comics lettering.
  created: '2007-08-31 00:53:20'
date: '2007-08-20 14:38:00'
node_type: forum
title: Comic Book Typography

---
