---
author:
  name: William Berkson
  picture: 110306
body: "In his book 'While You're Reading,' just out in an English edition, Gerard
  Unger discusses the '[[edge effect]]', whereby the eye increases the apparent contrast
  at edges between black and white. \r\n\r\nThe edge effect is, I now learn by googling,
  an instance of a well confirmed phenomenon of perception known as lateral inhibition.
  [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lateral_inhibition|Here]] is a brief explanation
  of it on the Wikipedia. And [[http://serendip.brynmawr.edu/bb/latinhib.html|here]]
  is a longer introduction to the science, with links and bibliography. \r\n\r\nThe
  idea is that the brain wants to pick out edges in the visual field, and our neural
  networks make the black apparently blacker and the white apparently whiter at an
  edge in order to facilitate this. In other words, the visual network exaggerates
  contrast so that the brain can identify edges more easily. \r\n\r\nGerrit Noordzij
  has also noted this effect and its relevance to type design, though I don't remember
  him using this label of 'edge effect'.  \r\n\r\nThis phenomenon I think sheds light
  on the issues of '[[notan]]' we have been discussing on Typophile. In particular,
  Frutiger is reported on the Linotype site as having the goal of 'activating the
  whites' in his design of letters and inter-letter spaces. \r\n\r\nMy feeling is
  that this 'activating the whites' is largely a matter of shrewd exploitation of
  the edge effect.\r\n\r\nHere for illustration is the 'e' from Frutiger vs the 'e'
  from Myriad--a subject in the 'rip off artists' thread. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Frutiger
  vs Myriad e_4786.gif]\r\n\r\nNote how the Frutiger 'e' uses the edge effect to 'activate
  the whites' more than Slimbach and Twombly's Myriad. \r\n\r\nFirst the top of the
  e and the bar are thicker than Myriad, and the eye narrower. I am guessing that
  a thick black will have more 'edge effect' than a thin one, and that seems to be
  the case here. These decisions together make the 'edge effect' 'light up' the eye
  of the Frutiger e more than the Myriad e. \r\n\r\nIn addition, Frutiger cuts the
  terminal vertically, and flares the terminal upward. This increases the 'edge effect'
  also for the terminal, so it is more vibrant, and it probably combines with the
  edge effect on the bottom of the bar, so creating a white spot between the terminal
  and the bar. By contrast, Myriad slims down the terminal, and cuts it at a diagonal,
  probably both reducing the edge effect. \r\n\r\nI don't think the question here
  is one of better or worse, but of different design decisions. Frutiger wanted a
  vibrant face for signage. Twombly and Slimbach I think were going for a more calm
  text face. Myriad is also a bit narrower, more traditional 'humanist' proportions.
  \ \r\n\r\nmore to come..."
comments:
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> different design decisions. Frutiger wanted a vibrant face for signage.
    Twombly and Slimbach I think were going for a more calm text face. \r\n\r\nInteresting,
    as I was reading the first part of the post, I was wondering if this edge effect
    thing (I have not read Unger, yet) applied to all type, or only to display sizes.
    It just seems to me that an effect of this kind cannot be processed on text sized
    type. \r\n\r\nAm I on target there?"
  created: '2007-08-20 19:03:09'
- author:
    name: mr
    picture: 112699
  body: "I would have thought it was the other way round. I think that the edge effect
    only affects a narrow band around the edge; at display sizes, you mostly see what's
    there, but at text sizes, the edge is relatively larger, and it's small enough
    for your eyes (really your brain) to deceive you.\r\n\r\nI hope that makes sense."
  created: '2007-08-20 22:02:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I think the edge effect takes place at every size, though there may be some
    scale effect. I haven't yet read the literature. It is also interesting that more
    is going on in the interaction of black and white than the edge effect alone--or
    at least the edge effect is complex. \r\n\r\nThere is an illusion known as the
    Hermann grid illusion, which you can see here:\r\n\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Hermann_grid_illusion_3451.svg.png]\r\n\r\nThis
    was explained by the 'lateral inhibition' and the edge effect, but that explanation
    as the whole story has been refuted by a [[http://www.michaelbach.de/ot/lum_herGridCurved/index.html|version
    with wavy lines]], in which the phantom grays at the intersections disappear.\r\n\r\nEvidently,
    it makes a difference whether lines are straight, and whether they are horizontal
    and vertical etc. \r\n\r\nThough it works at text and display sizes, the question
    is where it is appropriate. In another discussion, I questioned whether the 'picket
    fence' effect was something always to be avoided in type design. Nick Shinn rightly
    pointed out that in display type particularly you might want 'dazzle'. He designed
    [[http://shinntype.com/|Eunoia]] specifically to have that dazzle. \r\n\r\nI think
    in the lower case of text types it should really be avoided and counteracted.
    \  "
  created: '2007-08-20 23:14:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I put 'even color' also in the title of this thread also, so here are my
    ruminations after reading about the 'edge effect'.\r\n\r\nThere are three different
    aspects of the relationship between black and white involved in a good roman text
    face. \r\n\r\n1. Use or avoidance of the edge effect to enhance 'activate' the
    whites possibly even having 'dazzle', as discussed above. \r\n\r\n2. A degree
    of regular rhythm or periodicity of the black verticals. This has been shown by
    Fourier transforms, and provides a regularity or grid against which the varying
    shapes of the letters are detected or 'read' by the eye and brain. \r\n\r\n3.
    Evenness of color. The density of the blacks in each letter, within the x-height
    particularly, is similar, and distributed in as balanced as way as the letter
    permits. This avoids distraction from the distinctive letter shape as the only
    different thing to be detected or read by the eye. \r\n\r\nOne more thought:\r\n\r\nCould
    the edge effect or 'lateral interference' be a reason why screen type is hard
    to read? Does low resolution and lit-from-behind type cause the neural network
    to be taxed?\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2007-08-21 02:05:36'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "This is an interesting summation. Thanks for doing the work to build it up!\r\n\r\n1.
    I think that the 'edge effect' is a hardwired optical illusion or that is of course
    part of the basic reality of whatever visual stimulus is being considered. In
    a way Notan is an acknowledgment that while we have ways of cutting up & interpreting
    and labeling things especially in terms of light & dark; there is 'a priori' to
    any of that; a sensory reality which is a totality not a duality. So yes indeed;
    the edge effect can help to explain some phenomena within a person's pre-analytic
    (Notanic) visual experience.\r\n\r\nSo I agree that the 'edge effect' can be considered
    syththeticly with Notan. One way of synthesizing the two might be to say that
    while a machine, let's say a scanner may detect the actual or measurable values
    of - let's say of a page of text - it's the human sensing of that page including
    many factors/illusions such as the 'edge effect' but before conceptualization
    occurs that is the Notan of that page.\r\n\r\n2. I think that while you can find
    rhythm or periodicity in some latin text forms, and the latin text may benefit
    from it to some minor degree I am having trouble making a meaningful connection
    of Notan or the 'edge effect' to it. To my way of thinking the edge effect would
    of course be present it because edges are involved but that seems to be the end
    of it. Maybe I am missing something.\r\n\r\n3. <cite> This avoids distraction
    from the distinctive letter shape as the only different thing to be detected or
    read by the eye. </cite> You put this well. Of course I prefer to think of Notanic
    balance because 'evenness' sounds a little too mechanical, programatic or even
    literal (50/50) to me. Nonetheless I agree that whatever you call it - the goal
    should be to support rapid accurate recognition/processing of the forms by minimizing
    tonal distractions. \r\n\r\nWould you expand on your ideas about the screen?\r\n\r\nI
    have been hearing about how low rez sound taxes the brain to fill-in the missing
    music which leaves the brain less receptive to emotional content in the music.
    Do you have something like that in mind? "
  created: '2007-08-21 10:07:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Eben, after reading about the edge effect, I am thinking that it is more
    useful to think of specific aspects of the black-white relationship in type, rather
    than talking about 'notan' generally. For it seems that they are different variables
    as far as perception. \r\n\r\nThe stuff about 'activating the whites' or 'designing
    the whites' I am thinking is mainly about using the edge effect to make letters
    more vibrant, though Frutiger may have had more in mind. \r\n\r\nYes, I think
    a periodicity is quite a different variable from the edge effect. It does concern
    the distribution of black and white, though, especially through spacing. I think
    that it is a major, not minor matter in text. This is reinforced by an illustration
    in Unger's book, where he has excessively tight, loose, and irregular spacing.
    The irregular spacing is strikingly the most disruptive to reading. \r\n\r\n>I
    prefer to think of Notanic balance \r\n\r\nAs I said, I think using this one term
    is misleading because it puts these different phenomena--edge effect, periodicity,
    and even color, all in one basket. There are several balances going on, not just
    one. They are different and may be at odds with one another. \r\n\r\nAbout the
    screen, I don't have any definite theory about it. It just seems to me that if
    the edge effect is so fundamental a part of our perceptual apparatus--and it seems
    to be--it may be that the screen is disrupting its normal functioning. This may
    either be because of 'jaggies' that interfere with edge perception, or because
    the lighting of the whites makes contrast too strong. I don't know what is going
    on, but it seems to me likely that the screen is playing havoc with some fundamental
    processes. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2007-08-21 17:17:55'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: Edges are fundamental to human vision. It starts in the retina with the ganglion
    cells. These cells become activated when a there is a difference between the light
    in the center of its response field and the surround of its response field (a
    local edge). The visual cortex then looks for patterns in the ganglion cells that
    make up lines and arcs in different orientations (longer edges). These lines and
    arcs are the beginning steps of all object recognition, including reading.
  created: '2007-08-21 18:39:40'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Nice post Kevin! What do you think Frutiger had in mind when he was talking
    about 'activating the whites'? My sense has always been that he meant that you
    have to make the white a deliberate/conscious part of your design rather than
    as Bill would have had it previously - that it has to do with creating extra edge
    effect or creating 'sparkle'. In other words I think of 'activating the whites'
    as a global value rather than a discreet value.\r\n\r\nIn contrast I think of
    'edge effect' as something to be modulated in discreet areas of the design. So
    like Bill seems to be suggesting I do think that there is something to the idea
    of deliberately introducing sparkle especially where you are working with what
    Peter Enneson the salient feature - the part of the glyph that most helps you
    to recognize it.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-21 20:38:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Great thread, William!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-22 13:59:12'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "I don\u2019t know what Frutiger meant by activating the whites, nor do I
    understand how to leverage the edge effect. Mach bands show that our vision system
    enhances edges, even when the edges already have sharp boundaries between black
    and white. When the edges are less sharp, such as with newspaper print or on-screen
    type, our vision system helps us by sharpening these edges too. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mach_bands\r\n\r\nThere
    is a lot of work being done in visual psychophysics on spatial frequencies. It\u2019s
    believed that the vision system is spatial frequency tuned. The stimuli tend to
    be fields sinusoidal gradients (smooth alternating gradients of black and white).
    It\u2019s not clear how these simple stimuli apply to more complex stimuli like
    letters.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-22 18:25:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks, Chris. \r\n\r\nEben, I think that the general idea of making white
    shapes a conscious part of the design process is, as you say, meant by Frutiger
    in his comments about 'designing the whites'. And this comment is a direct influence
    of the Chinese and Japanese ideas about dark-light balance as a part of good painting
    and calligraphy. \r\n\r\nBut I do think that the idea of 'activating the whites'--the
    phrase of a teacher of Frutiger--does have to do with making the whites more vibrant
    by exploiting the edge effect. At least that is what I see when I look at Frutiger's
    self-named typeface, as I explained above.\r\n \r\nIn the Helvetica film Mike
    Parker glowingly describes the \"Swiss\" specialty of getting the whites and blacks
    to \"lock together\" (if I remember correctly), and how well it is accomplished
    in Helvetica. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Helvetica doe_4145.gif]\r\n\r\nHere
    also I think you see the edge effect to 'light up' the whites, both within and
    between the letters, in Helvetica bold. In particular, characteristic closed form
    of the 'e', with the horizontal terminal, makes the two 'edge effects' of the
    terminal and the bar join to light up the gap, making the whole key-shaped counter
    light up, with the relatively heavy blacks all around. In addition, I think the
    strictly horizontal-vertical right angle join of the bar and top arch also has
    some punch. \r\n\r\nThe tight spacing with the bold letters also gives the inter-letter
    spaces more vibrancy. By contrast, Frutiger's own Univers is less good at lighting
    up the whites. Here is Universe 65 bold:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Univers
    doe copy_6214.gif]\r\n\r\nNotice how the 'e' thins at the top and bottom, making
    eye of the e bigger, and reducing (I think) the edge effect at the top. The overall
    effect is not to 'light up' as much both the eye at the top and the key at the
    bottom. The handling of the counters is also different. Checking on the outlines
    in FontLab, Helvetica's top is symmetrical, perhaps adding to the force of it.
    Univers is actually assymetrical both top and bottom. The shapes are also slightly
    squarer, and narrower. This enables Univers also to be more widely spaced. Helvetica,
    as Erik Spiekermann says in the film, is rather \"fat in the middle\" (Meta is
    not) and the circular outline calls for tighter spacing. If you space Helvetica
    more widely I suspect words will start to 'fall apart'.   \r\n\r\nThese differences
    again make Univers more suitable for text, but not have quite the punch of Helvetica
    as a display face. Particularly, the tight spacing of Helvetica makes it work
    in display, and rotten in text--Paul Rand said it looked like \"dog shit\" in
    text. "
  created: '2007-08-22 18:42:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks for the reference and link to the Mach bands, Kevin. Peter Enneson
    had sent to me some illustrations of this by G. Noordzij, but I couldn't lay my
    hands on them, and I don't think Noordzij used the term 'Mach Bands', so I didn't
    know where else to look. \r\n\r\nI am guessing that a designer can 'leverage'
    the edge effect by 1. heightening it by larger black and smaller white areas,
    and 2. Having the counters a more simple or eye-catching shape. The idea is that,
    eg in the counter of the Helvetica 'e' our visual apparatus puts a brighter white
    line around the inside of the 'eye' of the 'e'. And this is bright enough that
    our eyes also reads it as a shape, a kind of white echo shape of the black. This
    'lights up' the inside. \r\n\r\nI think I can see this leveraging of the edge
    effect, but I may have just gone batty from looking at type all day :) \r\n\r\nI
    will get around to doing an illustration, but I've spent too much time today on
    this already. \r\n\r\nHowever, I should say that I don't think that only the edge
    effect is involved, in the 'lighting up' of counters. In this respect, I think
    Eben is right that more is involved. But I still think that periodicity and even
    color are different variables from this 'lighting up' stuff. \r\n\r\nHere is another
    diagram from Noordzij, on the figure-ground effect, which is another thing at
    work here. \r\n \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/NoorddzijIllustration_3753.gif]\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure if this will work right because the background on Typophile is gray instead
    of white, but the idea is that this will oscillate as to whether you see white
    squares on a black backgound, or a black frame window with white background. \r\n\r\nThis
    kind of oscillation is involved I think in the 'picket fence' effect also, with
    black and white bands.\r\n\r\nIt also seems to be a situation in which the term
    'notan' is often used--where the white becomes foreground. \r\n\r\nAt any rate,
    the bolder horizontals and smaller eye of Helvetica vs Univers may be using this
    foreground-background illusion to 'active the white'.\r\n\r\nIn addition, the
    Hermann illusion, above, and the versions with wavy lines that defeat it, show
    that still more effects are at work changing darks and lights in visual processing. "
  created: '2007-08-22 19:33:42'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks Kevin!\r\n\r\n<cite> And this comment is a direct influence of the
    Chinese and Japanese ideas </cite> \r\nWhat (if any) evidence do we have that
    Frutiger was influenced in this way? If I have forgotten, please remind me.\r\n\r\n<cite>
    \u2014the phrase of a teacher of Frutiger\u2014 </cite>\r\nI though it was Fruiger's
    phrase. Interesting.\r\n\r\n<cite>  Frutiger\u2019s own Univers is less good at
    lighting up the whites. </cite>\r\nI think that Helvetica sparkles more than Univers
    - and that Univers' white & black shapes are more balanced. Your relating this
    to  Display vs Text face use makes me think we basically agree about that.\r\n\r\n<cite>
    It also seems to be a situation in which the term \u2019notan\u2019 is often used\u2014where
    the white becomes foreground. </cite>\r\nI am not getting you here. Can you explain?
    My sense of Notan is that foreground & background are not issues in Notan because
    Notan isn't about structure/interpretation. \r\n\r\nKevin, is there any research
    that would suggest if the mach effect is stronger Horizontally or Vertically?
    What about Curves? Is it something that happens mostly with straight lines vs.
    Curves? What about diagonals?"
  created: '2007-08-22 20:45:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The Swiss notion of \"locking up the whites\" is a long thought concept from
    graphic design there. Armin Hoffman, renouned Basle educator and graphic designer
    (and teacher of my college design professor) stressed \"activating the whites\"
    in his work and teaching.\r\n\r\nThe thing that helps reduce the effect in Univers
    is the looser character spacing. The thing that most current type folks rag on
    Helvetica about is its tight spacing. It increases the bounding effect on the
    negative space, yes, but clogs at text sizes. Univers works much better in text
    sizes than Helvetica.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-22 20:49:41'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Yeah, thanks! \r\n\r\nBut wait: What is an edge? What is a \"difference\"?
    What is a pattern? What is \"longer\"? and, what about rhythm?  In another words,
    I bet I can make a font with no edges that still works because of something utterly
    undefined in the world of reading research, not to mention \"untapped\" by the
    looks of MS typography. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-08-22 23:00:52'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite>, I bet I can make a font with no edges that still works</cite>\r\nThis
    seems hopelessly vague. Not because the font described has no 'edges' but rather
    because I can't tell what you mean by 'works'. \r\n\r\nMoreover while I agree
    with what I think is your general thrust - that you can make very good type indeed
    without getting into this kind of theoretical fiddle faddle - I am not yet convinced
    that awareness of various kinds of optical illusions, Notan, etc can't be leveraged
    in the service of type that works better. I suspect that you believe in using
    illusions too, but not in this perhaps overly-theoretically oriented manner. Is
    that right? \r\n\r\nBut most of all - would you please tell us about what you
    believe that 'something' is? \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-23 00:02:16'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Eben, I believe we are more sensitive to horizontal (0 degrees) and vertical
    (90 degrees) edges than to diagonally oriented edges. I\u2019m not aware of research
    on curves. There may be research on this topic, but I don\u2019t know this research
    as well as I would like.\r\n\r\nDavid, you don\u2019t know what \u201Cedge\u201D
    or \u201Clonger\u201D mean? A single stroke, such as the letter l, has an edge
    on the left where the color changes from the background color of white to the
    foreground color of black, and another edge on the right where the color changes
    from the foreground color of black to the background color of white. I know several
    spam sites that can help you with \u201Clonger\u201D.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-23 00:15:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Eben, [[http://www.linotype.com/793-12657/black-and-white.html|here is the
    link]] to the discussion with Frutiger on the Linotype site. He quotes his teacher,
    it seems, and he also refers to the Taoist yin-yang symbol. Also explicit discussion
    of 'notan' was introduced in a book around the end of the 19th century. So it's
    pretty clear that this awareness of the influence of white shapes is an influence
    of East Asian ideas about painting and calligraphy. \r\n\r\nAs to the idea of
    using white as foreground being discussed in connection with 'notan', if you do
    a google search on 'notan' you will find East Asian painting examples like this,
    where the white--snow on a mountain--becomes part of the foreground. Also when
    we were discussing notan here on Typophile, Hrant mentioned a typeface that used
    notan well in his view, and it was a display face that cleverly used white as
    foreground parts of the letter. The designer came on the thread and discussed
    it, but I can't find the thread.   \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2007-08-23 00:48:50'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> I believe we are more sensitive to horizontal (0 degrees) and vertical
    (90 degrees) edges than to diagonally oriented edges. </cite>\r\n\r\nThanks Kevin!
    Right. That's what I thought. And I bet we are more sensitive to horizontals than
    verticals. Do you know if that is correct?"
  created: '2007-08-23 01:27:49'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Kevin, thanks for the edge. But, what are \"black\" and \"white\"? Spam?
    I remember something about from... 5 or 6 years ago, but that was back in the
    \"renaissance\", \"age of reason\" users don't get spam!\r\n\r\nIn any case we're
    back at what's what...before \"advanced writing\" is solved; There, proper \"locking
    up of the whites\" can only be accomplished in the majority of people's reading
    environments, by first \"freeing the blacks\".\r\n\r\nWilliam: \"Here also I think
    you see...\"\r\nWhat I see is a display face and then a text face, both with text
    spacing, shown at a display size, not to \"light up the whites\" in either case?
    I guess another way of putting it is that typography creates type's 3rd dimension.
    \r\n\r\nEben: \"This seems hopelessly vague.\" \r\nWhat do you mean by \"hopelessly\"?
    If it was hopelessly vague it could not be a font. \r\n\r\n\"And I bet we are
    more sensitive to horizontals than verticals.\" \r\nDiagonals, verticals horizontals
    and curves don't mean (a gross natural product), unless correctly integrated all
    the way to typography, do they now? Has that changed of a sudden?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-08-23 15:41:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">typography creates type\u2019s 3rd dimension\r\n\r\nGranted that good typography
    is essential. But both a good typeface, suited to the usage, and good typography
    are needed for a great result, no? And surely a good typeface is the sum of its
    details, such as verticals, proportions, curves, etc.  \r\n\r\nYou seem to accept
    that 'locking up of the whites' is a meaningful term. How would you characterize
    that, in different terms from the 'lighting up the whites' that I was struggling
    to understand above?\r\n\r\n>What I see is a display face and then a text face,
    both with text spacing.\r\n\r\nI am interested: what features, or combination
    of features, lead you characterize Univers 65 as a text face, and Helvetica bold
    as display? "
  created: '2007-08-23 16:40:22'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> What do you mean by \u201Chopelessly\u201D? If it was hopelessly vague
    it could not be a font. </cite>\r\n\r\nNot the font silly! The vague part was
    the phrase \"I bet I can make a font with no edges that still works because of
    something utterly undefined in the world of reading research\" - So made hopefully
    more clear: What is the undefined by reading research 'thing'? I am sure the font
    with 'no edges' would be able to be read. That much was clear to me already. Thanks!"
  created: '2007-08-23 20:52:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think the visual concept was described after the fact. Someone (perhaps
    in Japan) did it then it was talked about and later taught. The theoretical description
    came much later. I think it is a HUGE jump between physiology of body entwined
    with perceptual psychology and actually knowing what steps to take to reproduce
    an effect.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-23 23:12:52'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> I think it is a HUGE jump between physiology of body entwined with
    perceptual psychology and actually knowing what steps to take to reproduce an
    effect. </cite>\r\n\r\nQuite true!"
  created: '2007-08-23 23:35:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I think the visual concept was described after the fact. Someone (perhaps
    in Japan) did it then it was talked about and later taught.\r\n\r\nThe idea of
    dark-light balance seems to be very old in China, and I am guessing was imported
    into Japan along with Chinese characters. China it seems there had an ancient
    theory, couched in the Taoist terms, of good painting and calligraphy as a balance
    of opposites, including thick-thin, dark-light, rough-smooth, and so on. They
    were very literate (poetry went together with painting) and my impression is that
    they also loved to yak about theory--like some of us here--so there was an interaction
    between theory and practice.  \r\n\r\nThe  Europeans saw Japanese wood block prints,
    and then some learned the theory from Japanese and reported it in the West. My
    guess would be that those later to do type design post WW II picked it up the
    theory in art schools, and then consciously applied it to type design.   "
  created: '2007-08-24 04:23:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You might be right about that, Bill. I think it ether came to or was reinvented
    in Europe earlier than WWII though.\r\n\r\nThere are plenty of stark scandinavian
    wood cuts that predate that. Some South American Indian culture also did a good
    job of it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-24 04:34:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'The first book in English seems to be by Arthur Wesley Dow, 1899. I don''t
    know if there was earlier stuff in French or German. I am just guessing that it
    took until after WWII to get through to type design as a conscious theory, because
    that''s when you hear of Frutiger talking about it. '
  created: '2007-08-24 05:34:23'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> You might be right about that, Bill. </cite>\r\n\r\nOr maybe not too
    of course. We can't know without somebody to connect the dots although it is certainly
    possible. The thing that strikes me is that without meaning to it's easy to smudge
    formerly distinct exotic ideas together. And I think that artists love to do that.
    That is one reason why the idea that Notan as an intellectual meme made it to
    1950s Europe intact seems somewhat far fetched even if some part of it's echo
    may have. Moreover, actually applying Notan ( as opposed to using it as an exotic
    explanation ) would be tough I think. So even though I can't disprove the idea
    - and to be honest; don't want to - I also can't quite bring myself to buy in
    yet either. The final reason for my enduring skepticism is that Frutiger's explanation
    ( the one that Bill kindly pointed me to ) is that the way of looking says he
    used was native to his own place of birth through their culture of cutting shapes
    from black paper. He even goes so far - and I think quite unwisely - to suggest
    that maybe there is something genetic about it. Boy did I roll my eye then!\r\n\r\nBill,
    what is in the Arthur Wesley Dow book?"
  created: '2007-08-24 06:42:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Eben, I haven't looked at the A.W. Dow book, but just seen references to
    it. It is still in print over a century later, though, and the blurbs say that
    it is regarded as a breakthrough book, giving for the first time a comprehensive
    theory of composition. And it seems that at least in English it introduced 'notan'
    to the West as a part of the theory of composition. \r\n\r\nThe Chinese yin-yang
    theory is very vague and elastic--both its strength and weakness. And, as Chris
    says, a lot of people have discovered the influence of the whites by trial and
    error anyway, without any theory. That may have included the Bernaise paper cutters
    that Frutiger is so fond of. But I think important advance is just to direct people:
    \"look at the white shapes, they are crucial even when in background.\" Then artists
    and designers will do something systematically what they might have either not
    done or done unconsciously or only occasionally. And that idea of attending to
    the light shapes clearly comes from Chinese and Japanese art and theory. \r\n\r\nThe
    content to the vague idea of dark-light balance is given by the actual examples
    of Chinese and Japanese art, with their use of dynamic, asymmetric balances, large
    blank spaces, white sometimes pushed to the foreground, and so on.\r\n\r\nThe
    point of this thread was to try to raise the question of the basis in perception
    and perception theory for the affects of white shapes--something that G. Noordzij
    and G. Unger have already worked on, but clearly has a long way to go. "
  created: '2007-08-24 15:21:16'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks for the additional info on the Dow book. Maybe I can get it via Interlibrary
    loan. Cool!\r\n\r\nYou know there was at least one painter who seems to have been
    thinking in these terms - at least to my eye - before Dow. \r\n\r\nVermeer. Take
    this painting done in 1670.\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image:DublinVermeer.jpg\r\n\r\nThis
    looks like a sophisticated working of value/brightness without favoring one or
    the other to me.\r\n\r\nActually I am sure there were others before that - I just
    give Vermeer as an example. And doing something & having a theory about it are
    different things as well.\r\n\r\nI also think Chris' point about an approach being
    invented independently in multiple places is certainly good one. \r\n\r\nAnd your
    idea about the possibility of transmission through Dow may be a good one as well.
    I am not interested in 'downing' your idea. I just think it needs research/undergirding.
    That is why the statement that 'attending to the light shapes clearly comes from
    Chinese and Japanese art and theory' seems therefore just a bit too strong to
    me. So I would say 'clearly can be found in' & 'may have been transmitted' instead.
    \r\n\r\nIn any event, how it got to us may not be utterly resolved - ever. And
    if it is, it won't be by us; unless we become Art historians. That's something
    I don't plan to do. But working on using it better and understanding it better
    definitely is."
  created: '2007-08-24 17:24:54'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Just wanted to say thank you for this fascinating thread.\r\n\r\nThe most
    interesting part for me is what William illustrated with the Helvetica and Univers
    letter e, (22 Aug 2007, 10:42 post) namely:\r\n\r\nThe top counter in Helvetica
    is smaller than in Univers. Yet it 'lights up' more in Helvetica. \r\n\r\nAm I
    correct in following this reasoning: \r\nUnivers's upper arch is thinner, meaning
    there is less black for the counter to contrast against. Therefore increasing
    the weight of this arch, increases the optical distinctness between the two.\r\n\r\nIt's
    interesting to notice that the stroke width in Helvetica's bold e is about the
    same vertical height as its upper counter. I'd guess this makes about the maximum
    contrast possible, since neither black nor white can overpower the other. I wonder
    how this applies to other weights.\r\n\r\nWhat would be really interesting would
    be to find out the mathematical ratio of total black to white area in an everyday
    sentence (including interletter space). I suspect it would be closer to 1:1 in
    Helvetica than in Univers, meaning the contrast/sharpness/vibrance is heightened.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    interesting food for thought. :) "
  created: '2009-10-10 19:49:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Bendy,\r\nUnivers has more stroke contrast than Helvetica so joins appear
    less black, also affecting color.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-10-11 00:18:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks Chris, that's interesting. \r\n\r\nBen, Frutiger addressed your question
    about ratio of total black to white area in a text face, specifically the ratio
    within the x-height. Taken from Frutiger's fascinating discussion of his faces
    on [[http://www.linotype.com/793-12660/univers.html|the Linotype site]] here is
    Frutiger on the ideal ratio of black and white (weight) in text faces: \r\n\r\n\"For
    normal text faces in particular, the weight of the downstroke is a very important
    factor in determining the basic structure of a typeface. A kind of standard for
    this stroke weight already existed in the Carolingian minuscule and became fully
    established with the first humanistic romans. It is a quite specific ratio of
    black to white which gives the x-height band of a typeset line a grey value which
    the reader finds to be \"normal\". \r\n\r\n\"These proportions are perceived with
    astonishing sensitivity. It often happened that a typefoundry had to supplement
    an existing typeface with a \"Book\", \"Medium\" or \"Heavy\" version, which would
    be accepted in text setting as \"normal\" or \"suitable for reading\". It is not
    easy to quantify these standard values. The black value is influenced by the weight
    of the horizontals, also the serifs in the case of roman faces. \r\n\r\n\"As an
    average value, it may be taken that the stroke thickness is multiplied by about
    5.5 times in the x-height. The normal width of a sanserif face consists approximately
    of a side bearing of 3 stroke thicknesses and a lateral \"beard\" of one stroke
    thickness. If, to balance out the black value of the horizonal, 0.5 stroke thickness
    is subtracted from the x-height, the result is a theoretical x-height band of
    5 stroke thicknesses. The grey value is composed of 2/7 surface coverage and 5/7
    white space, corresponding to a density of rather less than 30 per cent.\"\r\n\r\nWhen
    I myself measured the 'n' and 'o' in a few serif faces, I got a ratio of black
    to white as 1:2, so that there is twice as much white as black, and the black
    is 33% of the total area within the x-height. This is pretty close to Frutiger,
    but a bit more, so it may be that reader-preferred text serifs generally have
    slightly more black than sans that are used in text. \r\n\r\nI think an interesting
    question is: What in our visual apparatus makes these ratios so fixed? I would
    suspect that they apply to scripts other than Latin, though maybe with a bit of
    variation as horizontal and vertical have a different apparent visual weight.
    \r\n\r\nOne general explanation is that a 2:1 ratio makes for a very clear figure-ground
    distinction, so we easily know what to \"read\". But I think also a factor is
    getting the space within the counters and between letters to balance. A relevant
    fact here is that the test of Clearview Highway fonts found that words of medium
    weight letters were more legible at a distance, particularly at night, than bold
    weight. And I believe the view of those involved was that this had to do with
    the greater amount of white within the counters. This testing does support the
    idea that eg. Frutiger is superior in text to Helvetica Bold.  \r\n\r\nEvidently,
    we need the black to be thick enough to 'read', and the white expansive enough
    to be clearly 'ground'. But why it works to around 2:1 I don't think anyone knows.
    I'm pretty sure scale has an influence also, so the ratios vary somewhat with
    visual size--eg, visual angle spanned by the x-height.   \r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-11 15:39:06'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "I made some simple experiments simulating the stroke effect to adjust sidebearings.
    The results were so-so, but not such bad, anyway. And since that time, I am sure
    that it's just avoiding illusions, what stays behind things we describe in words
    of poetry, like \"proportion\", \"ratio\" or \"balance\". The numbers and ratios
    are the effects of trying manage the spatial frequency \"algorythms\".  \r\n"
  created: '2009-10-12 15:21:13'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">One general explanation is that a 2:1 ratio makes for a very clear figure-ground
    distinction, so we easily know what to \u201Cread\u201D.\r\n\r\nBut even then,
    it's a background that is firmly cloven between what of the background is between
    letters, and what is within each letter. We need a black that goes with both whites.
    A 1:1.01:1 ratio.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-10-12 20:05:06'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I think that looking for rules in these cases is not going to bear fruit.
    It is too sterile a nd brittle a way of thinking. There is always going to be
    more than one way to do it. But looking at tendencies I can get behind. Too much
    repetition/patten is boring. To little is distressing. We want to be quite gently
    stimulated. The stimulation comes from variation. The gentleness from relative
    evenness - which can be ( is ) arrived at in many ways and by different degrees.
  created: '2009-10-13 10:16:41'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I'm interested especially in what makes shapes most 'vibrant' rather than
    most readable, and I think these things are probably mutually exclusive. \r\n\r\nHaving
    the foreground and background contrasting as much as possible is ideal for highway
    signage, headline text and logotypes; whereas for body copy the emphasis seems
    to need to be on the word-forms (boumas), and having the individual shapes pop
    out would be quite distracting.\r\n\r\nThis leads me to wonder if bold text has
    conventionally been chosen for headlines because it pops out more because it has
    a closer approximation to a 1:1 ratio of black:white (maximum contrast), than
    body text which it seems is closer to 1:2 black:white. (I realise that headlines
    also work very well not bold, just that bold is one option.)\r\n\r\nWilliam:\r\n>words
    of medium weight letters were more legible at a distance, particularly at night,
    than bold weight.\r\nI'm puzzled by this. Do you know the approximate foreground/background
    ratio for the medium/bold weights of Clearview? How did you work it out the areas
    in the n's and o's you measured?\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-13 12:35:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I think that looking for rules in these cases is not going to bear fruit.
    It is too sterile and brittle a way of thinking.\r\n\r\nYou seem to be saying
    that you know what science can't investigate fruitfully. That seems pretty crazy
    to me, given the past successes of science, from planets to genetics to fractals,
    but maybe I'm misunderstanding you. \r\n\r\nAs Frutiger says, here the consistency
    of what seems \"normal\" text is striking--though of course a range, not a single
    number. And it seems to hold across scripts, so it seems to be not just cultural
    but physiological and psychological. So it seems to me a pretty good candidate
    for scientific explanation in natural science, as opposed to social science.  \r\n\r\nBen,
    [[http://clearviewhwy.com/ResearchAndDesign/index.php|here is a summary of the
    development of Clearview Highway.]] And [[http://www.clearviewhwy.com/ResearchAndDesign/_articles/RoadToClarity.pdf|here
    is a link]] to the lovely NY Times article. There is also a published scientific
    paper that Kevin Larson referred to here on Typophile in a recent thread. He or
    James Montalbano will have the reference, if you can't find it with search.\r\n\r\nI
    haven't done the measurements on ratio of black to white for Clearview Highway.
    The way I measured black vs white--on Adobe Garamond, my own font and IIRC Adobe
    Caslon--was by doing a screen capture of two o's and n's  pasting the character
    into photoshop, cropping to the x-height, and using [[http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/|ImageJ]]
    to count black and white pixels. \r\n\r\nI only did this for a few fonts, so if
    you do it for more, do let us know what you find! \r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-13 14:40:32'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">it seems to hold across scripts,\r\n\r\nI was thinking the same thing, optical
    perception is based on physics, so it's not really a surprise that all scripts
    at their most legible/readable have similar ratios of black/white.\r\n\r\nI'll
    have a good read of your links later and look at ratios with ImageJ, which sounds
    intriguing! :)"
  created: '2009-10-13 15:01:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">based on physics\r\n\r\nYes, on physics, but a whole lot also on physiology
    of the eye and the way the brain processes images. So it's pretty complex. That's
    why to me the regularity that Frutiger points out is intriguing as a clue. \r\n\r\nI
    just googled for the traditional scribal rules for Hebrew, and they are different
    for the hand used for writing sacred text, called 'stam,' [[http://www.safrus.com/alephbet.html|as
    explained here.]] The letters are 3 strokes high, rather than 5. However, the
    letters are wider than traditional roman lower case, and the pen is held at a
    steeper angle, so it may work out the same. Also the fairer comparison is with
    printed Hebrew, which I think will be pretty much the same, though the reversed
    stress (thick horizontal, thin vertical) may make a difference. With Arabic, a
    connected script, I wouldn't know how to do the comparison. For Cyrillic, Greek
    and Indian languages, as well as Chinese characters, it should be pretty straight
    forward.   "
  created: '2009-10-13 15:44:46'
date: '2007-08-20 18:39:06'
node_type: forum
title: The 'edge effect,' 'notan,' and 'even color' in type design

---
