---
author:
  name: Dan Gayle
  picture: 111595
body: "I asked this question to [[James Grieshaber]], [[Kent Lew]], and [[Stephen
  Coles]] with various results, but if there were ONE typeface on the face of the
  earth that you'd rather never see again, what would it be, and why?\r\n\r\n(If you
  list P*pyr*s, C*mic S*ns, or any other typeface that could be found on 2002 Free
  Fonts, you're not trying hard enough.)\r\n\r\nSo here's mine:\r\n\r\n<strong>ITC
  [[Souvenir]]</strong> (Particularly the bastard mono.)\r\n\r\nThis typeface is so
  ugly, yet it's everywhere. The roundness doesn't come across as round, it comes
  across as soft. And in that not-good soft way. Although designed by Morris Fuller
  Benton in the 10s, it's too 70s, in the bad feathered hair and brown tinted eyeglasses
  way. I would rather live in a world where Souvenir does not exist.\r\n\r\nYour turn."
comments:
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Oh stop it. This is the biggest waste of band width in the world.\r\n\r\nGet
    over it."
  created: '2007-08-22 03:00:31'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Hey, I'm at work and I am bored. So talk to someone who cares.
  created: '2007-08-22 03:04:42'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Because it was abused so much in my workplace, I have to go with Algerian.
    It was bad enough seeing the all caps font used in all the signs around the building,
    like: YOUR MOTHER DOESN'T WORK HERE, SO CLEAN UP AFTER YOURSELF.\"\r\n\r\nBut
    then I had to sit through an hour-long technical presentation, with all the titles
    set in Algerian. And the worst part was they has set the tracking so that all
    the letters overlapped, and were on the verge of unintelligibility. AAARRGGH!
    (the horror!)"
  created: '2007-08-22 03:15:20'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Benguiat, with Algerian a very close second.  Here, they suffer from as much
    inappropriate use as Comic Sans and Papyrus.\r\n\r\nBlech."
  created: '2007-08-22 03:40:44'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'I would tend to agree with James about this topic, and I have a soft spot
    for "bad" typefaces like Souvenir, but there is one popular free font that never
    fails to make me a bit nauseous when I see it: <a href="http://www.dafont.com/black-chancery.font">Black
    Chancery</a>. '
  created: '2007-08-22 03:42:57'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Avenir (long story)
  created: '2007-08-22 03:45:40'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Arial. Not because I dislike it, but because I\u2019m sick of hearing type
    nerds complain about it. It\u2019s been sucking for twenty-five years folks, get
    over it!"
  created: '2007-08-22 05:01:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Superultra, that''s not Souvenir, but some bizzare thing called ''Souvenir
    Mono.'' Souvenir is well drawn, and that''s not. '
  created: '2007-08-22 05:10:57'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: Hi William... You are right. Dan hates the mono version of the typeface. I
    posted it just for him loathe.
  created: '2007-08-22 05:19:49'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Dan, Just One???\r\n\r\nSorry, I'm filled with too much hate to be limited
    by just one. Here's to streetwalkers and health code violations:\r\n\r\n\r\nCulrz-
    \ This preferred choice of the American dingbat pre-adolescent peroxide blonde
    gloss junkie is imprinted all over pink homework folders and sparkly snug-fitting
    phase tees- \"I'm in love with what's his face\".\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture1_6430.png]\r\n\r\nHorriable
    Harrington- this barber will cut your hair for $5.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture3_3524.png]\r\n\r\nRunning
    that late night pizza joint with floors stickier than a booger in a jar of honey?-
    This ones for you.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture4_5975.png]\r\n\r\nMistral-
    The 'fluid' script gracing the worlds adult entertainment products.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture5_3744.png]\r\n\r\nDan's
    favorite beeocth\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture6_5716.png]\r\n\r\nNasty
    Nasty Abadai- ugly on all counts!!!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture7_6418.png]"
  created: '2007-08-22 05:21:10'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Hi there:\r\n\r\nThank for giving me the correct spelling. The edit changed
    the order of the my post- weird. Mr. Crossgrove is not my dear friend but I'm
    sure he's a fabulous loving man and should be beatified on the double but Culrz
    = Hulrz.\r\n\r\nMikey :o)"
  created: '2007-08-22 05:30:05'
- author:
    name: Zennie
    picture: 112349
  body: "Ravie\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sonotravie_4435.jpg]"
  created: '2007-08-22 05:50:02'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: www.dafont.com
  created: '2007-08-22 05:55:40'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Ravie... but its so cute... :-(\r\n\r\nSince I'm so equal opportunity:\r\nhttp://www.fountain.nu/catalogue/pizzicato.asp\r\n\r\nMikey
    :-)"
  created: '2007-08-22 06:08:52'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Yeah, the Mono Souvenir-like <em>thing</em> is horrendously bad, but I hate
    even the regular face. It's just so weak and flaccid.
  created: '2007-08-22 06:13:03'
- author:
    name: rondomingue
    picture: 112412
  body: "Comic sans and Brush Script is too obvious to hate on\u2026 can't stand Mistral.
    \r\n\r\nI've been very guilty of using Benguiat and Curlz in a professional application.
    Although I can say I wanted to use Benguiat for an Art Nouveau poster so it was
    sort of the correct application, I guess the same can be said about Harrington.
    There was no excuse for using Curlz though."
  created: '2007-08-22 08:44:18'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Futura\r\n\r\nMainly because it'd force me to at least TRY and use a different
    typeface once in a while (Damn you handy Futura!)"
  created: '2007-08-22 14:55:07'
- author:
    name: Artform
    picture: 112802
  body: "<cite>Comic sans and Brush Script is too obvious to hate on\u2026 can\u2019t
    stand Mistral.</cite>\r\n\r\nI second that. Times New Roman is a font that bugs
    me quite a bit. I think it's because of how often it is the default. I guess it's
    just played out.\r\n--\r\nFocus beyond the dot of the i."
  created: '2007-08-22 15:01:50'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>www.dafont.com</cite>\r\n\r\nI guess you are saying you'd like to ban
    all poorly made fonts with this odd blanket statement? Or is it the free part
    that bothers you?\r\n\r\nThey are certainly better than many of the alternatives.
    That they are often recommended here says a lot. Some freeware sites are often
    understandably deleted by the moderators because they have commercial fonts.\r\n\r\nIf
    you look, you can also find some fun nuggets there.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-22 15:21:27'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "<em>\"...if there were ONE typeface on the face of the earth that you\u2019d
    rather never see again...\"</em>\r\nThat would have to be the ONE I'm finishing
    up, at any given moment. ;-)"
  created: '2007-08-22 15:33:43'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: "fontplayer, re. dafont.com, that was a ??bad?? joke, but frankly I think
    99.9% of fonts on the site are either poorly executed or knock offs. I am all
    for <cite>quality</cite> free fonts but I barely use them at all. 99.9% of the
    typefaces I use for work are licenced fonts.\r\n\r\nMy <cite>real</cite> response
    to the question asked in this thread is akin to James' and Mark's.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-22 15:45:27'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>I am all for quality free fonts but I barely use them at all. 99.9%
    of the typefaces I use for work are licenced fonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat is understandable
    if you are \"in the biz\". For those of us not charging their purchases off to
    a customer, Dafont kinda rocks.\r\n\r\nAnd they are pretty good about protecting
    you guys. \r\n\r\nAs an aside, the whole knock-off argument seems pretty well
    shot down by companies like Adobe and Microsoft, I am am following the common
    reasoning in another thread (something about \"Bloody rip-offs\")"
  created: '2007-08-22 15:55:42'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Now, now boys. Focus! I'm talking real commercial fonts that some foundry
    like ITC has the gall to spread around the world like a plague.\r\n\r\nIf you
    ignore the free junk and anything bundled with an OS, what are you left with?"
  created: '2007-08-22 16:15:15'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>http://www.fountain.nu/catalogue/pizzicato.asp</cite>\r\n\r\nI guess
    I should be embarrassed to say that when I saw that for the first time, I thought
    it was the coolest font ever.\r\n; )\r\n\r\nAnother nominee might be Hobo."
  created: '2007-08-22 16:26:36'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "Bad type ain't the problem. People who use type badly is the problem.\r\n\r\nIt's
    like fashion. I don't blame bell bottoms for the sixties. And I don't blame Souvenir
    for the seventies. But somebody wearing bell bottoms in 2007, or using Souvenir
    in 2007, had better be going to a retro party!\r\n\r\nAdmittedly some fonts have
    a quality that makes them appropriate over a large spectrum of projects. And some
    fonts are so well crafted that a person has got to be inept to set them badly.
    But most fonts suffer because of lazy or indifferent type specification."
  created: '2007-08-22 16:27:07'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Once upon a time, about 8 years ago I had the pleasure of hearing a lecture
    given by Gerard Unger on the mid-century (last) typefaces from France. Before
    this lecture I hated Mistral (and many fonts from the late, great Excoffon). This
    hate was tied to a having to do DTP (as it was then called) with so few fonts
    available to me in the late 80s and early 90s. Silly and childish.  Gerard's rich
    and detailed stories of driving through the French country side and visiting towns
    with traces of the old signage and even stories from his own youth mesmerized
    me. \r\n\r\nAs it happened I was going to France for the first time only a short
    while later. I never thought I'd visit France, Paris seemed but a dream. I was
    in a frenzy of anticipation. He had opened my eyes to why the designs were originally
    created and I wanted to see them for myself. \r\n\r\nNow one of my favorite time
    periods in the history of the poster is Mid-century France. (Well, in fact, I
    have a huge bias now toward anything French.)\r\n\r\nThe lesson to be learned:
    Before you go hating a typeface learn the history and the context. \r\n\r\nThere
    are no bad typefaces, only poorly used typefaces."
  created: '2007-08-22 16:33:42'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: "Well, I just think this question is absurd if you're taking it seriously.
    If you're just asking it for a bit of fun, fair enough.\r\n\r\nLike all design,
    typefaces is a creative byproduct of <cite>time</cite>, coming into fashion and
    out into oblivion and, often, return with a vengeance. Helvetica was all the rage,
    so was Avant Garde and it's over abused alternates, guilty here, Souvenir not
    quite but who knows in 2030. <cite>Exist</cite> is a strong word to use (taken
    seriously), you might have asked which typeface one wished weren't so ubiquitous
    <cite>today</cite>? Oops, guess we all know that one, Helvetica, oops maybe Arial.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-08-22 16:33:59'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: Oh, beaten! Tiffany communicates across the point I was trying to make far
    more eloquently. :^)
  created: '2007-08-22 16:36:43'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "But there are some fonts for which there is simply no excuse. Even tho I
    agree that threads like this are a waste of time, I've obviously read this one.\r\n\r\nA
    restaurant in my neighborhood is using Mistral (which I hate) letterspaced to
    within an inch of its life. I have to shield my eyes every time I pass the sign.\r\n\r\nI'm
    gonna make you all suffer with me... here's my recreation of the sign (couldn't
    fit in the 't'). I think the actual sign is even more tracked out than my sample.
    Looks like little poops all spread out in a row.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/malaysian_4913.jpg]"
  created: '2007-08-22 16:36:59'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "I just took a look at Souvenir, and have to say I'd take it (especially the
    light & light italic versions) over Hobo, Mistral, Algerian, & Ravie any day.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/itc-souvenir/light-italic/"
  created: '2007-08-22 16:40:51'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: Patty, you can't blame Mistral for that. You gotta blame the goofball that
    decided to use Mistral for the restaurant and then tracked it out to incomprehension.
    Don't blame the typeface for bad design.
  created: '2007-08-22 16:50:18'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I should edit my post but don't want the entry time to change:\r\n\r\nI meant
    to add something about history of French graphic design and not only the poster,
    but it just so happens that I particularly love signage and poster art from France
    from the time period. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-22 16:53:30'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Agreed, Ken. But I've never liked Mistral even when used properly.\r\n\r\nIt
    doesn't help that - as pointed out above - it's been co-opted by the \"gentleman's\"
    club industry."
  created: '2007-08-22 16:54:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Nobody's mentioned University Roman? Used for supposedly 'classy' jobs.\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2007-08-22 16:59:57'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "In general I can ignore - or even laugh at - a poorly-designed ugly weirdo
    font that you only encounter occasionally.\r\n\r\nI'd rather never see Dax again
    but then my UPS packages wouldn't get to me.\r\n\r\nAnd Nick - YES, I thought
    of University Roman too! Meant to mention it, actually, but got side-tracked.\r\n\r\nIn
    the 90s I'd have liked to have done away with Matrix but it seems to have crawled
    back under its rock."
  created: '2007-08-22 17:06:22'
- author:
    name: mr
    picture: 112699
  body: Urgh... University Roman. The funny thing is, I've been seeing this everywhere
    recently, and thinking how horrible it is, but I didn't know what it was called
    until I was prompted by this thread to take a look at it.
  created: '2007-08-22 17:38:06'
- author:
    name: Sam M
  body: 'I think Bank Gothic is one that I could do without. Its one of those fonts
    that is pretty neat by itself, but looks really silly in almost any application. '
  created: '2007-08-22 17:55:31'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Name a bad knock-off of Helvetica - Sorry, Akzidenz Grotesk and let that
    be it.\r\n\r\noh yeah... And Tiresias. (combined they'd just barely count as one,
    right?)\r\n >;\xAC)  "
  created: '2007-08-22 18:00:09'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "Yeah University Roman is so horrible.\r\n\r\nAnd (even though it's a well
    designed font) I think the world could do without Mason, the official font of
    teenage goth myspace users."
  created: '2007-08-22 18:04:18'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Ah, University Roman! Didn't actually identify it when taking this photo.
    The reason for taking the photo was the strange mixture of the type of business
    (grills and such out of wire) and font.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bethel2_6396.jpg]"
  created: '2007-08-22 18:06:53'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>I think the world could do without Mason, the official font of teenage
    goth myspace users.</cite>\r\n\r\n: )\r\nAt least that is easily avoided."
  created: '2007-08-22 18:16:47'
- author:
    name: James Grieshaber
    picture: 110551
  body: "I agree with Tiffany comments, context redeems what may seem ugly to the
    uneducated eye. That is not to say one has to like a particular font or that it
    is even appropriate to use today.\r\n\r\n \"There are no bad typefaces, only poorly
    used typefaces.\"\r\n\r\nAgreed, for the most part... but there is still Black
    Chancery, which I thought was horrible when I first saw it as a student in the
    late '80s.\r\n\r\nAre you happy now, Dan? You made me say it... my vote is for
    Black Chancery."
  created: '2007-08-22 18:39:11'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I did a little digging... Black Chancery was based on an older bitmap font
    and was digitized in 1991 by none other than Earl Allen, one of the programmers
    responsible for Fontographer. Now that I think of it, I believe it may have been
    one of the sample fonts included with Fontographer.
  created: '2007-08-22 19:39:12'
- author:
    name: Adriano Santi
    picture: 110406
  body: I'd have to say Rotis. Wouldn't miss it one bit...
  created: '2007-08-22 19:45:39'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I'm with ya there, not a fan of Rotis. The Met is using it for their adverts
    for a show on Egyptian art. Go figure.
  created: '2007-08-22 20:06:08'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "I ignored this thread because I wasn't bored enough. If I had to reply, my
    answer would be the same as Mark Simonsons! That \"font\" is so execrable It makes
    me angry. It's obviously free; who would buy such a thing? \r\n\r\nRecently I
    saw a headline in Souvenir caps and had to remark sadly that it was well-drawn.
    Compared to a lot of the homemade stuff on myfonts, etc. now, Souvenir is actually
    well-crafted. Isn't that sad?\r\n\r\nJLT: Thanks so much, PAL, for harping on
    my marginal involvement with Curlz. Let's get the record straight: When I was
    still working in print production, just out of school, Steve Matteson would give
    me small custom type jobs for Monotype. One of them was finishing the character
    set of Curlz. I probably actually drew 11 of the alphabetic characters and filled
    out the punctuation. In other words, Steve Matteson is the designer of Curlz.
    I was a production monkey who finished it, much like my role with Woodtype 3.
    Not the originator, the slavey. \r\n\r\nOne way for type designers to get experience
    is to finish the work others start. Matching someone else's style is good exercise.
    In fact, that's how new designs come about like Leslie Cabarga's new Casey, and
    Mark's new Kinescope. They start with example art and fill out the missing pieces.
    Great skill to have. In the case of Curlz, I never thought it would haunt me all
    my damn days. What did I do, God? Why am I being punished?... \r\n\r\nI'll get
    you Josh, when you least expect it.  >:("
  created: '2007-08-22 20:06:23'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Mikey, \r\n\r\nYou appear to have found a unique sample of Souvenir Monospaced.
    Weird! It does look worse than the original. "
  created: '2007-08-22 20:07:42'
- author:
    name: smugairle
    picture: 112626
  body: "there's nothing wrong with da-font, it's a good place to start and for random
    inspiration it has sorted me out in the past nicely, just to take this in a different
    direction: i'd love to see a world without helvetica... now that would be interesting...\r\n\r\n(it's
    nice enough but a bit... meh!)"
  created: '2007-08-22 20:12:43'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "<cite>Oh stop it. This is the biggest waste of band width in the world. Get
    over it. </cite>\r\n\r\nThough I agree this topic isn't as exhilarating as other
    threads, it is exactly this kind of remark that scares people away from participating
    in potentially interesting conversations. Obviously, plenty of people are partaking
    and enjoying themselves.\r\n\r\nPlease be nice."
  created: '2007-08-22 20:51:59'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> I guess I should be embarrassed to say that when I saw that for the first
    time ...\r\n\r\nHey, I liked Souvenir when it came out in the 70s. It dated kind
    of quickly, though."
  created: '2007-08-22 21:01:34'
- author:
    name: dcastillo
    picture: 110726
  body: ">Avenir (long story)\r\n\r\n???\r\nThe story must have little to do with
    the typeface. \r\n\r\nMaybe an obvious pick, maybe not, but I would love to see
    Serpentine erased from existence."
  created: '2007-08-22 21:49:16'
- author:
    name: mike gastin
    picture: 110273
  body: "Although spotting Papyrus has become a family joke when we are out and about,
    I also can't stand Matisse. No, in fact, I hate it - especially when I see it
    used in signage.\r\n\r\nGregory Gray, if you read this thread, please don't take
    it personally. I am sure you are a fine person.\r\n\r\n;)\r\n\r\n--\r\nMike"
  created: '2007-08-23 00:30:14'
- author:
    name: Gary Long
    picture: 112662
  body: "Even badly designed or terribly overused typefaces have their place. For
    instance, if I had to typeset something that needed to mimic office correspondence
    produced in MS Word, what would I do without Times NR, Arial, and Comic Sans (a
    municipality my wife worked for one time used Comic Sans as the text face in official
    correspondence---which actually was appropriate in a way, as the town was a bit
    of a joke).\r\n\r\nI know of a small magazine that uses Souvenir as its text face,
    and a bad knock-off of Univers as the sans for titles. Bizzarely, it kinda works.
    It's a folksy-country magazine."
  created: '2007-08-23 00:54:57'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Already mentioned, but I could do without Bank Gothic. It's not ugly, actually
    pretty nice looking. But somehow when it's used, 9 out of 10 times it just looks
    wrong.
  created: '2007-08-23 01:45:15'
- author:
    name: garyw
    picture: 110508
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Rem_4133.gif]'
  created: '2007-08-23 02:00:34'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: In seeing it plastered around a new mall today, it occurred to me I wouldn't
    miss ITC Anna if I never saw it again.
  created: '2007-08-23 02:13:21'
- author:
    name: rosem
  body: "My vote is for Century Gothic.\r\n\r\nIt's used in the logo where I work,
    and grow to hate it more each and every day."
  created: '2007-08-23 02:26:11'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: I was just flipping through a local photo school course catalog, and encountered
    a featured class called Creative Encounters. The titles were set in Hobo. The
    irony was breath-taking.
  created: '2007-08-23 03:11:05'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<em>I wouldn\u2019t miss ITC Anna if I never saw it again.</em>\r\nTHAT's
    the spirit that I'm trying to convey. It's not that certain typefaces are poorly
    designed, or whatever, it' personal preference."
  created: '2007-08-23 04:21:07'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "@ garyw \r\n\r\nHmmm. That and Jokerman \r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/jokerman/jokerman/"
  created: '2007-08-23 04:42:53'
- author:
    name: Hildebrant
    picture: 110392
  body: "Curlz and Papyrus.\r\n\r\nPapyrus is something I hate with a passion. Mostly
    because of its all too frequent misuse.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-23 07:01:22'
- author:
    name: Cassie
    picture: 112932
  body: ">>Papyrus is something I hate with a passion. Mostly because of its all too
    frequent misuse.\r\n\r\nThat is actually something another designer and I have
    been talking about for a while. Is there <em>ever</em> an appropriate use for
    Papyrus? Especially now, since it has been used and overused and misused and used
    some more? I honestly cannot think of any situation where I would feel comfortable
    (and sane) using that typeface. "
  created: '2007-08-23 07:25:34'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: "worth checking out\r\n\r\nTypes Best Remembered/Types Best Forgotten: A Collection
    of Observations on Types Best Remembered/Forgotten (Paperback) \r\nby Robert Norton
    (Editor) "
  created: '2007-08-23 14:04:45'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>Is there ever an appropriate use for Papyrus?</cite>\r\n\r\nIn 2050,
    when you're art directing a movie set in 2007 and you need to design the logo
    for a spa. You'll get a lot of aging typophiles in the audience slapping their
    heads and going \"Omigod, Papyrus. Haven't seen that font in decades. Brilliant.\""
  created: '2007-08-23 14:16:50'
- author:
    name: Duckworth
  body: "For me, it would be a weight of a font, not the font itself, but Gill Sans
    bold/extra bold has always bugged me.\r\n\r\nPixelfonts also, from around 2000-2001
    when everyone was using them. Are you really THAT short of space that you have
    to rely on typefaces that are barely legible?"
  created: '2007-08-23 14:41:37'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "ARGH! Leave Papyrus alone. You don't have enough imagination if you can't
    find something more worthy of loathing. That's like picking on your younger cousin
    with Downs syndrome.\r\n\r\nAs I recall, most of the original questionees had
    a major dislike for Rotis, which to the unaided eye should be just a normal typeface.\r\n\r\nBut
    the Devil is in the details..."
  created: '2007-08-23 15:29:31'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "Mine would be VAG Rounded, an agency I used to work for used it for its housestyle,
    and would never use it again unless being forced to... I've seen enough of it
    for the rest of my lifetime!\r\n\r\ncheers Queneau"
  created: '2007-08-23 15:29:42'
- author:
    name: akma
    picture: 110015
  body: "I'm intensely relieved to see Mark and others cite Black Chancery. More than
    once, I've had to explain through clenched teeth why it bothers me so much, and
    been met with uncomprehending shrugs.\r\n\r\nI don't recall specifics right now
    -- but aren't the horizontal/vertical stroke widths all wrong? To make a pen achieve
    those letterforms, the nib would have to be pivoting and expanding and contracting
    capriciously all the time. The type seems to have been designed by someone who
    wanted to make something look calligraphic, without even the faint grasp of calligraphic
    mechanics that I've attained (and believe me, that's faint). Likewise, people
    use it instead of a better-designed script. Ugh.\r\n\r\nNo fondness for Rotis,
    tired of Times Roman and the faces proscribed at the outset, but Black Chancery
    actually makes me feel queasy to look at it.\r\n\r\n\r\nAs an aside, one of my
    least favorite faces in general is Antique Olive -- which a publisher chose to
    set the titling for a recent book of mine. That would just be bad kluck, but one
    of the points of the book involves the relevance of page design to communication
    and meaning. . . ."
  created: '2007-08-23 15:43:04'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "I'll stay away from the obvious choices (Papyrus, Comic Sans MS, Mistral,
    Black Chancery, et al.), and I'll go with Times in all its forms.\r\n\r\nFor doing
    its part to get rid of Times New Roman (and Arial), I'd like to give a sincere
    thank-you to Microsoft Office 2007.\r\n\r\n(I just hope that I won't someday be
    saying the same thing about Calibri!)"
  created: '2007-08-23 17:14:42'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: '@JLT - How about just writing a new post? ;)'
  created: '2007-08-23 18:19:52'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "Duckworth, I have to agree with Gill Sans Bold and Extra Bold. I would add
    the condensed weights as well. I can't hate on anything done by FastSigns, but
    I see pro designers using these weights of Gill Sans all the time, trying to make
    it look all serious when these weights seem really cartoony to me.\r\n\r\nTypefaces
    like Mistral, Hobo, and University Roman have a different context for me, since
    I'm too young to remember the overuse in their prime. I assume my equivalent would
    be Bank Gothic, RotisSans, and Matrix, which the condo industry still seems to
    think works for identities.\r\n\r\nMyriad is a face which I think is great in
    and of itself, but due to the unfortunate fact that it's the default in Illustrator,
    I've begun to associate it with really cheap and shoddy work."
  created: '2007-08-23 18:37:12'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "On the topic of Rotis, Matthew Carter made a funny comment during the Helvetica
    Q&A in Seattle. He was asked, \"Which typeface would you take with you to a deserted
    island?\" He said something along the lines of, \"It would have to be Rotis, so
    that I could take it apart and use it to build a raft to get off the island.\"\r\n\r\n:) "
  created: '2007-08-23 18:55:50'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@Zara\r\nI thought he said that his desert island font was Rotis because
    if it were his only typeface he wouldn't be able to stand it so he would be FORCED
    to build a boat to get off the island.\r\n\r\nI think this is someday gonna be
    like Gaudy's sheep stealing quote...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-23 19:20:00'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: David, if you are bored, then don't read this thread. And please leave your
    spam elsewhere, thanks.
  created: '2007-08-23 19:20:36'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: '@Dan: Sorry I could not remember it word for word, thanks for the correction.'
  created: '2007-08-23 19:21:58'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: .
  created: '2007-08-23 19:31:56'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "@David: Without context, how am I to know what you are referring to?\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    my response is the same."
  created: '2007-08-23 19:40:19'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: .
  created: '2007-08-23 19:43:26'
- author:
    name: Robert Trogman
    picture: 111573
  body: On the subject of University Roman. About 40 years ago I took an alphabet
    fom a Speedball lettering book and made a photolettering font and called it Celtic.
    About 10 years later the Celtic poppped up as  University Roman in the Linotype
    collection.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CELTIC041_4482.jpg]
  created: '2007-08-24 00:26:09'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "So! It's all your fault! ;-)\r\n\r\nIt's interesting to see the differences
    between Celtic and University Roman. Celtic is much closer in flavor to the Speedball
    style (\"Stunt Roman\"). I remember seeing it years ago in the Formatt (cut-out
    lettering) catalog. I figured it to be a copy of University Roman, until I noticed
    the differences. I like the \"upside-down\" S in the original, but nobody ever
    seems to include it in any font based on it."
  created: '2007-08-24 02:50:45'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: 'Celtic:  A (little bit) better scan. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/celtic_6502.jpg]'
  created: '2007-08-24 03:25:48'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: I can picture Bruno shaking with rage...
  created: '2007-08-24 03:38:21'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: One more vote for University New Roman
  created: '2007-08-24 03:38:35'
- author:
    name: Down10
    picture: 128220
  body: "That example of Celtic from David almost makes it look kind of nice.\r\n\r\nI
    gotta add: Kino MT. Has anyone seen this font used appropriately?"
  created: '2007-08-24 04:06:23'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "SuperUltraFabulous, that's not \"Cultz,\" but rather Curlz, by our dear friend
    Carl Crossgrove.\r\n\r\nedited 08.23.07: I see you've altered the spelling of
    the type in order to correct it, but it's still not right. It's not \"Culrz,\"
    but \"Curlz.\"\r\n\r\nRelatedly - a \"feature\" of the current Typophile that
    I HATEHATEHATE:\r\n\r\nOriginally, SUF's post preceded mine, and ostensibly mine
    was a response to his. But because he later edited his post, it was pushed down
    below mine. This kind of thing really screws up the chronology of a discussion.
    I can see adding an \"edited xx.xx.xx xx:xx\" notation, but changing the original
    date and time of the post when edits are often very small? That's not helpful.\r\n\r\n--later--\r\n\r\nZara:
    good idea - I'll start after this one.\r\n\r\nCarl: I'm sorry. I'll buy you a
    drink. But you've done such a good job that it more than makes up for Curlz -
    whether you built 11 glyphs or the whole thing.\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\njlt : http://www.hewnandhammered.com"
  created: '2007-08-24 06:49:12'
- author:
    name: WezMaynard
    picture: 113013
  body: "As a web designer. . . .\r\n\r\ndefo comic sans. . .  nuff said.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-24 16:43:23'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "<em>Linda Cunningham: Benguiat\r\n\r\nDanGayle: Yeah, the Mono Souvenir-like
    thing is horrendously bad, but I hate even the regular face. It\u2019s just so
    weak and flaccid.\r\n\r\nDon McCahill: Hey, I liked Souvenir when it came out
    in the 70s. It dated kind of quickly, though.</em>\r\n\r\nOkay, let's really bash
    Souvenir. First off, it was around since the beginning of the last century. When
    Fisher Price came to be, they commissioned Morton Sol (or was that Solomon) for
    a look. He took the old drawings he had (from 1913 and 1928) are redrew them calling
    them Solomon's (or Sol's) Souvenir. And that becameFisher-Price's logo. (And yes,
    he was paid well for his efforts.)\r\n\r\nNext, it was redrawn by Ed Benguiat
    and licensed for sale by ITC. Linda, you might hate Benguiat because of Souvenir.
    One night in the backroom of Photolettering, Ed Benguiat with Herb Lubalin had
    a conversation about Souvenir. The drawings were pulled out, and given to Vladimir
    Remington along with suggestions (I guess we call this art direction) on how to
    redraw the face into a new face, which when finished Ed Benguiat named it after
    himself.\r\n\r\nBoth Souvenir and Benguiat had a major role in Science Fiction
    paperback books. 1970s for Souvenir, and 1980s for Benguiat. Our trouble with
    it - they were so overused, that most of us in the industry wanted to puke.\r\n\r\n********\r\n\r\n<strong>James
    R. Harris</strong> is no longer with us, but if he were, he'd be telling you right
    now the worse face EVER - was ITC Eras. He would ask you outright - \"What is
    this? It's not roman, it's not italic. It just leans there -- quick someone offer
    it a crutch to help it stand up already.\"\r\n\r\n**********\r\n\r\nThe font I
    could have lived with without ever seeing or using -- that's very hard to say.
    Yes, there are many I dislike, and so many more that are poorly used. People selecting
    typefaces that just don't marry the artwork anymore. As a former typographer,
    I was taught not to single out typefaces -- that somewhere there is a perfect
    place to use - yes, even that one.\r\n\r\nWhat I can't stand though is poor typesetting.
    I cringe when I see Fette Fraktur used as all caps - or for that matter, and script
    used in all caps - and worse - letterspaced out...\r\n\r\nThank you for my sanity
    moment."
  created: '2007-08-25 13:26:22'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: I was just thinking of Eras as a possible candidate. I had to see a lot of
    it when doing paste-ups for a department store daily advertising at the early
    days of my designing career, and never liked it since (or even then).
  created: '2007-08-25 16:38:45'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "Too many obvious like Papyrus, and Rotis for signage and all of that\u2026\r\n\r\nSo
    i step in with \r\n-Versailles. Da Hero went nuts over the years or i don't really
    get it \u2026 ;)\r\n-Cronos! A big question mark. \r\n-Chapparal. Ok, you beat
    me up for this one  \r\n\r\nPS\r\nI'm very interested in \"your Avenir Story\",
    please tell me/us.\r\nOr was it a \"Avenir Next Story\"?\r\n\r\nLast calling:\r\nI
    adore Mistral ;), really!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-25 19:00:46'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@Poms\r\nCalling out Mr. Slimbach? Heresy!"
  created: '2007-08-25 19:25:53'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Jackie, I'm no big fan of Souvenir either (or Korinna, or University Roman,
    for that matter), but shame on you and Mili for dissing Eras!  ;-)  What next
    -- you gonna give Friz Quadrata the boot too?\r\n\r\nAnd yes, I like Mistral --
    I used a sheet of it as press-on type to design my first letterhead back in the
    early 80's when I lived in NYC.  \r\n\r\nBut as Patty mentioned, if it's poorly
    letterspaced, it'll make you nauseous -- wish I had my camera with me while running
    errands -- I spotted some great bad signage.  Another Benguiat for my collection,
    a sign for <em>SPECIAL PIZZA</em> in Algerian, and an art supply store that used
    Mistral, Hobo, and Squire.  They had repeated the word in Mistral on the building
    but had letterspaced it at around 400%! argh....\r\n\r\nI'm also becoming rapidly
    intolerant of Tempus Sans: the Comic Sans of the 21st century...."
  created: '2007-08-25 21:16:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David Berlow: <em>That would have to be the ONE I\u2019m finishing up, at
    any given moment.</em>\r\n\r\nYup. That's the one."
  created: '2007-08-25 22:01:49'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "<strong> Linda </strong>: <em>Jackie, I\u2019m no big fan of Souvenir either
    (or Korinna, or University Roman, for that matter), but shame on you and Mili
    for dissing Eras! ;-) What next \u2014 you gonna give Friz Quadrata the boot too?</em>\r\n\r\nFirst,
    I like Friz - I just wish it came in more weights than just Regular and Bold -
    I'd have loved to own a Demibold/Semibold...\r\n\r\nSecond - It was James. R.
    Harris, \"Jimmy\" to his friends (along with some other names) so for him - I'd
    romanize ITC Eras... backslant it - I think it was 8 or 9 degrees. I actually
    used it for MPMS' corporate logo... years and years ago.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-25 22:28:14'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Jackie, your wishes are answered!  (Well, at least so far as getting an italic
    and OSF is concerned.)\r\n\r\nCheck out http://www.linotype.com/468/frizquadratabyitc-family.html\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-26 00:08:47'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Aww... I liked Eras as the titling font used in Popular Science during the
    1980s.\r\nPerhaps it should stay there and not go anywhere else."
  created: '2007-08-26 04:38:27'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "<strong> Linda Cunningham </strong> <em>Jackie, your wishes are answered!
    (Well, at least so far as getting an italic and OSF is concerned.) Check out http://www.linotype.com/468/frizquadratabyitc-family.html</em>\r\n\r\nLinda
    - look again - it's still only two weights... their Regular and Bold... I'm into
    having that third or even fourth weight available -- sometimes Bold is just too
    Bold for me! Thanks for trying - it is appreciated."
  created: '2007-08-26 12:44:12'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Yeah, I realize that -- but at least the italic, small caps, and OSF can't
    hurt. \r\n\r\nI've gently tinkered with line weight with it for small passages
    in the past, but I don't think I've improved it much.  :-("
  created: '2007-08-26 18:19:20'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "It is not us that can live without these faces - we know we can. But here
    is a direct \"cut and paste\" from my client's word document;\r\n\r\n<em>All Text
    in Comic Sans or Tempus Sans</em>\r\n\r\nNo I am not making this up - it's for
    their business cards -- oh my!"
  created: '2007-08-27 21:33:33'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "If you'd like, we can probably arrange an online intervention.\r\n\r\nOr
    you could just show them this topic node.\r\n; )"
  created: '2007-08-28 02:03:25'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Dennis,\r\n\r\nA few years ago, I redid their menus. The graphic artist they
    had put the whole menu in 10 pt. Tempus - did all the typesetting in Photoshop
    - it's a restaurant, with normal menu changes (items dropping out, new ones added
    and prices going up - and sometimes, even down...) it was a mess. To top it off,
    their average crowd are bluehairs and the lighting is, well there isn't any, it
    is a very dark setting.\r\n\r\nI removed the graphics from behind and just left
    a beige background (they had postage stamp-type decorations under the Tempus).
    They wanted to see a Tempus Bold (I know, it doesn't exist - but can be stroked...)
    and I finally redid the menu in ITC Giovanni for easy readability - increasing
    the point size and still having room.\r\n\r\nWhen I got the business card in -
    I knew we'd be back in Tempus -- hey, at least it's not Comic Sans.\r\n\r\nSo,
    thank you for listening -- and I'll probably reset it in Giovanni.... "
  created: '2007-08-28 03:50:03'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite> did all the typesetting in Photoshop</cite>\r\n\r\nI've heard that
    is frowned upon, but since it is all I've ever known, I have no point of reference.
    My main gripe is PS won't allow you to put punctuation outside the justification,
    which I'm told is the way to go. I usually indent all the other lines.\r\n\r\nI
    guess what you are saying is it wasn't professionally done by a real professional.
    Kind of like me doing it. But at least I wouldn't choose any of the aforementioned
    fonts. Although I did use Comic Sans at <strong>[[http://www.dopeyhead.com|dopeyhead.com]]</strong>
    but that was sort of a no-brainer.\r\n; )"
  created: '2007-08-28 04:22:57'
- author:
    name: John the Fontaholic
  body: "Hi everyone,\r\n\r\nA lot of the obvious candidates have already been nominated,
    but here goes...\r\n\r\n--Klang  At the printing company I work for, we used to
    have a client who loved using this font, especially kerned/letterspaced to a ridiculous
    degree, and it always made me cringe.\r\n\r\n--The Peignot Family  Yes, I know
    it's a classic, and the titles to \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\" just wouldn't
    be the same without it, but like University Roman, it's been overused and MISUSED
    to a degree that just makes me want to shriek.\r\n\r\n--Lubalin Graph  Sorry if
    I offend anyone by taking Lubalin's name in vain, but as someone born in 1970,
    all I can associate this font with is bad memories of elementary school, because
    it was ubiquitous.  And just because you can add slab serifs to Avant Garde, doesn't
    necessarily mean you should...  ;-)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nJohn the Fontaholic"
  created: '2007-08-28 04:50:34'
- author:
    name: axian
    picture: 110101
  body: Latin Wide. It's an abomination.
  created: '2007-08-28 09:55:56'
- author:
    name: John the Fontaholic
  body: "Oh yes, going back to someone's comment about setting type in Photoshop...\r\n\r\nI
    always, ALWAYS advise people not to do this, and it amazes me how many people
    don't get it!  I tell them that because Photoshop is pixel-based, the fonts are
    going to look crappy even if you set them at 1200 dpi resolution in bitmap (not
    grayscale) mode.\r\n\r\nAll you end up with is a huge file that looks lousy, IMHO.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nJohn
    the Fontaholic"
  created: '2007-08-28 14:48:35'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite> because Photoshop is pixel-based, the fonts are going to look crappy</cite>\r\n\r\nFor
    a 500-600 pixel wide image like I use at my site, can the difference you are talking
    about be seen? Id so, could I lay things out in PS, then open the .psd in Illustrator
    and save as a .jpg there?"
  created: '2007-08-28 14:56:22'
- author:
    name: John the Fontaholic
  body: "Hi Fontplayer,\r\n\r\nYou had written:\r\n>>For a 500-600 pixel wide image
    like I use at my site, \r\n>>can the difference you are talking about be seen?
    \r\n>>If so, could I lay things out in PS, then open \r\n>>the .psd in Illustrator
    and save as a .jpg there?\r\n\r\nI'll have to defer this question to someone with
    more extensive knowledge/experience of web-only/computer-screen-only typesetting.
    \ I know that \"screen only\" stuff is a lot more forgiving, because computer
    screens only have a maximum display of 100 dpi, as far as I know.\r\n\r\nI work
    for a commercial printing company, so my reference point is from that perspective,
    dealing with things that are printed on a printing press after being run to film
    on an imagesetter and then burned onto a metal plate...\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nJohnH"
  created: '2007-08-28 15:13:10'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: ">>For a 500-600 pixel wide image like I use at my site,\r\n>>can the difference
    you are talking about be seen?\r\n>>If so, could I lay things out in PS, then
    open\r\n>>the .psd in Illustrator and save as a .jpg there?\r\n\r\nJohnH is talking
    about text that is going to be sent to a RIP for offset printing, i.e., vector
    graphics. Keeping the text vector based, which it is natively, allows the Raster
    Image Processor to print it at the maximum native resolution of the image setter,
    which is super high in most cases. Thus, the file stays small and manageable until
    the end and becomes gigantic only at the very end of the line, at maximum resolution,
    when it needs to be.\r\n\r\nFor screen rendering, however, you can just use Photoshop
    since the final output is intended to be a raster, or pixel, image. Photoshop
    CAN handle pixels very well, since that's what it is intended for. \r\n\r\nBut
    that's the subject for another thread.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-28 19:48:28'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Thanks for explaining that. I was worried I had to learn something new, which
    takes away from play time.\r\n; )"
  created: '2007-08-29 01:34:02'
- author:
    name: smarks
    picture: 109688
  body: "Here's one I've not seen mentioned: Adobe Serif MM. There are unfortunately
    certain programs that generate PDFs without embedding outlines -- old versions
    of StarOffice come to mind. If the original fonts aren't available when the PDF
    is opened, Acrobat Reader will substitute Adobe Serif MM (or Adobe Sans MM as
    appropriate). There's nothing worse than reading an entire document set in Adobe
    Serif. Ugh!\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-29 22:40:02'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: But that isn't Adobe Serif's fault. Don't hate. ;^)
  created: '2007-08-29 22:55:59'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "<strong> John  </strong> <em>  ...always, ALWAYS advise people not to do
    this, and it amazes me how many people don\u2019t get it! I tell them that because
    Photoshop is pixel-based...</em>\r\n\r\nJohn, \r\n\r\nIt isn't because it is a
    pixel-base that I too, ALWAYS tell folks (stronger than \"advise\" and uh hum,
    not as polite) to use a page layout program. Yes, you can save your type in a
    layer - but when the revises come - and whole lines get moved around - nothing
    beats word processing... With Photoshop you might as well take your time to reset
    your type because it's faster than cut/paste/repaste/recut/move this/ move that...."
  created: '2007-08-30 14:20:35'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Funny idea to ask.\r\n\r\nOk, lets say Rotis without thinking a lot.\r\nHate
    it.\r\nReason: its so German. ;-)\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2007-08-31 16:52:51'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "And PS\r\n\r\nmaybe it\u2019s provocative\r\nbut wouldn\u2019t it be a nicer
    and more charming world without the creations of Frutiger?\r\nJust asking.\r\n\r\nStefan
    ;-."
  created: '2007-08-31 16:56:31'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Oh Stefan - please don't banish Frutiger - I love that font.\r\nIt is a great
    text font when looking for a sans serif font that's not Helvetica...\r\n\r\nI'm
    in the middle of a job right now and Frutiger is wonderful.\r\n\r\nLooks like
    we are back to personal selections. I am reminded of a person named Emil who was
    looking at the head of a deer on a wall. He asked me what I thought of it - I
    thought it was horrible. He asked me about putting it on a scale of 1 to 10 --
    10 the best. I gave him a 1. He then told me he was a hunter, it was a beautiful
    speciman, it made him happy that someone mounted it and gave it a 10.\r\n\r\nAnd
    so a 10 to Frutiger."
  created: '2007-08-31 17:18:18'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "You are certainly right,\r\nit works so well. But sometimes (I do work also
    with Frutiger for job reasons) I wish it would be a little, just a little, a tiny
    little bit less perfect. More human. \r\n\r\nStefan\r\n\r\nI give it a 5 actually
    fot this defect.\r\nBut please don\u2019t say you love Rotis ;-)"
  created: '2007-08-31 19:25:23'
- author:
    name: perardi
    picture: 112485
  body: <a href="http://www.typography.com/catalog/whitney/index.html">Whitney</a>,
    as I'm sick of having to look at it at work every day.
  created: '2007-09-01 02:14:22'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: Stefan - I have NEVER loved Rotis... Now Wunderlich was a different story...
  created: '2007-09-01 08:45:35'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi Jackie!\r\n\r\nWho is Wunderlich?\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2007-09-01 14:02:04'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "It was a favorite san serif font of James R. Harris for a while. I paid a
    fortune for it and he only used three words worth. A few years later I made him
    use it for a book from Peregee -- it never caught on - but you know, as I relook
    at it -- it was nice.\r\nYep - even the \"g\"\r\nhttp://www.fontshop.com/search/?q=wunderlich&site=d"
  created: '2007-09-01 17:19:50'
- author:
    name: H. Todd Duren
  body: "Dan!\r\n\r\nDuring my second job in 1988 I spec'd enough Souvenir to choke
    a horse wearing bell-bottomed pants! It was dated even then. I so agree with you.
    Other FONTS THAT MUST DIE:\r\n\r\nHobo (unless you are actually hopping a freight)\r\nArial
    (a cheap imposter commissioned by Bill Gates)\r\nVerdana and Georgia (great on
    screen, terrible in print. Sorry Mr. Carter...)\r\n... and the easy two that you
    mentioned.\r\n\r\nMy favorite ugly font:\r\nBrush Script ( I know, I know, but
    I can't help it)\r\n\r\n\r\nH. Todd Duren, \r\ndesigner. educator. yada yada\r\n\r\nmyopendoor.net"
  created: '2007-09-06 01:16:52'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: What about Times New Roman?
  created: '2007-09-07 09:50:28'
- author:
    name: sihep
    picture: 112339
  body: Agree Times in postscript is horrible but find it looks surprisingly nice
    (and totally different) done with letterpress.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/metaltimes_5475.jpg]
  created: '2007-09-07 10:44:57'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: That's indeed looking quite nice.
  created: '2007-09-07 15:36:11'
- author:
    name: jayyy
    picture: 109661
  body: "Yes Fontplayer! HOBO! If we could just remove it from the hands of all those
    sign shops we would be progressing.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/acs_rend_5659.php.png]"
  created: '2007-09-07 16:01:04'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hey Simon!\r\n\r\nYes its much nicer in letterpress indeed!\r\nA fumdamental
    probelm of Times (though it works quite well in text one has to admit)\r\nis that
    it looks so sharp edged and stiff.\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2007-09-09 19:41:33'
- author:
    name: John the Fontaholic
  body: "Hey Simon!\r\n\r\nHow'd you know that's my name done in Times on the letterpress??
    \ :-D\r\n\r\nI agree that it looks much better done that way, more \"real\" somehow,
    if you know what I mean.\r\n\r\nThe print shop that I work for, still has a Heidelberg
    letter press which almost never gets used for print work anymore; mostly it's
    pressed into service for numbering or crash-imprinting pre-printed NCR forms.
    \ But it's always nice to see people using it for letterpress work, especially
    if the stock being used is a really thick one.  But these days, most people don't
    want to spring for the additional money and time of having an actual die made...\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nJohn
    the Fontaholic"
  created: '2007-09-10 02:52:40'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "I generally avoid posts about \"worst,\" \"hate\" or \"nuke it\" since I've
    seen some brilliant pieces using what some think are terrible faces.\r\n\r\nBut
    I do have to say I have great distaste for designs that <em>emulate</em> other
    writing systems. For some reason it bothers me as much as ethnic jokes.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Mandarin_6085.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Faux_Arabic_5605.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Kajur_6571.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Hebrew_Latino_3824.png]"
  created: '2007-09-10 03:16:50'
date: '2007-08-22 02:58:54'
node_type: forum
title: What ONE typeface would you have rather not exist?

---
