---
author:
  name: aluminum
  picture: 110335
body: "I watched the Ninth Gate last night from Netflix. IMHO, a rather unremarkable
  film that I normally would have just shut off if not for the fact that it all centered
  around antique books. Type didn't play a huge part, but got me thinking about what
  other semi-mainstream movies might use graphic design and/or type centric plot elements.
  Any come to mind? \r\n\r\nAny romances set in a print shop? Any murder mysterious
  surrounding a sign factory? The Scarlet Letter? "
comments:
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: Stranger Than Fiction has some very interesting graphic elements to help illustrate
    the written words.
  created: '2007-08-23 15:56:26'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Prospero's Books? I haven't seen it in a while.
  created: '2007-08-23 15:57:15'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: American Psycho. (The business card scene.)
  created: '2007-08-23 16:19:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Shop Girl - the bloke (who isn't Steve Martin) is a failed type designer.
    \r\n\r\nDomino \u2013 Chris Walken\u2019s character rants about design apparently\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve
    not seen either movie. \r\n"
  created: '2007-08-23 16:44:22'
- author:
    name: Ignacio
    picture: 110175
  body: "Truffaut loved books. In the \"Mississippi Mermaid\" there is a scene of
    the printing process of a tobaco package with the face of Catherine Deneuve, and
    if I remember well, in \"The Man Who Loved Women\" there is one or two scenes
    about books and printing.\r\n\r\nI also remember a cool scene in an antique book
    store with Bogart in The Big Sleep.\r\n\r\nDi Caprio is arrested in a french press
    in \"Catch Me If You Can\"."
  created: '2007-08-23 16:45:22'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Here's some... \r\nThe Printer's Devil from, 1923 - \r\nhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0014375/
    \r\n\r\nThe Font of Courage, 1917 -\r\nhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0953400/ \r\n\r\nThe
    Mafia Type, 2004 - \r\nhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0459451/\r\n\r\nThe Wrong Type,
    1994 - \r\nhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0402593/\r\n\r\nTimes, 2002 - \r\nhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0308985/\r\n\r\netc.,
    etc.,"
  created: '2007-08-23 16:55:06'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "There're a lot of them.\r\n\r\n-- The New Age - Judy Davis is a graphic designer.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nType/typefaces
    (movies & tv) see the documentary: Hollywood at Last"
  created: '2007-08-23 17:14:20'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: It's a small part, but there's a great scene in The Lives of Others, in which
    a Stasi expert describes to an investigator the letterforms of the typewriter
    model used by a dissident writer.
  created: '2007-08-23 18:08:29'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> Shop Girl - the bloke (who isn\u2019t Steve Martin) is a failed type designer.\r\n\r\nNot
    exactly. He just says he's working on a font. It's more of a funny little line
    than an actual intended profession."
  created: '2007-08-23 18:09:23'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: American Psycho with Christian Bale. There are a few great scenes where the
    yuppie lawyers compare typefaces and paper stock, they also mention letterpress.
  created: '2007-08-23 18:10:25'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I should add that the initial meeting where the cards are shown and compared
    gets Christian Bale's character mad enough to kill the guy who supposedly has
    a nicer card.
  created: '2007-08-23 18:11:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Dustin Hoffman played an art director in Kramer vs. Kramer.\r\nHis marriage
    was ruined staying up all night working on ad layouts."
  created: '2007-08-23 19:02:13'
- author:
    name: delve
    picture: 110483
  body: "There's that obscure film that recently came out. I doubt anyone on here
    has seen it. It's called \"Helvetica\".\r\n:)"
  created: '2007-08-23 22:27:15'
- author:
    name: sihep
    picture: 112339
  body: "The main female character in De Niro/Pacino film \u201CHeat\u201D is a graphic
    designer with a copy of Fuse on her desk in one scene. \r\n\r\nAs mentioned above
    Patrick Bateman being upstaged by someone else\u2019s business card is the classic
    one: \u201COh my God, it even has a watermark!\u201D\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pd2_4905.jpg]"
  created: '2007-08-23 22:30:27'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/4printers_4925.jpg]\r\nIt's not a movie,
    but I've always liked the Twilight Zone episode \"Printer's Devil.\" Burgess Meredith
    plays an expert Lin-o-type operator who turns out to be Satan. "
  created: '2007-08-23 22:38:59'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 'Any film involving a ransom note. '
  created: '2007-08-23 22:39:21'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Any film involving a ransom note.\r\n\r\nThe Clearing, for example. "
  created: '2007-08-24 00:28:22'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "There was a German film I saw a few years ago on TV... I think it dated from
    the'80s.\r\n\r\nA famous graphic designer - head of a big firm is always wrapped
    up in his work. Eats sleeps and drinks design.\r\n\r\nDesign design design.\r\n\r\nHis
    wife is bored.\r\n\r\nShe has an affair and runs off with a hip young artist.\r\nUber
    cool young artist.\r\n\r\nThe husband responds by taking the young atist (who
    reminds him of himself) under his wing and turning him into an uber successful,
    famous designer - With whom his wife quickly becomes bored and she returns home.\r\n\r\nThe
    young artist's life is destroyed by success. What a terrible revenge. \r\n\r\nI
    don't remember the name of the film though\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-24 00:59:36'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>There\u2019s that obscure film that recently came out. I doubt anyone
    on here has seen it. It\u2019s called \u201CHelvetica\u201D.\r\n:)</em>\r\n\r\nHere,
    you need this: <strong>[[http://thesnark.org|.~]]</strong>\r\n\r\n(Sorry, I just
    had to.)"
  created: '2007-08-24 01:03:28'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Whoa...my NetFlix queue is now 3 years long! Some good recommendations in
    here!
  created: '2007-08-24 14:58:25'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "here's a horrible film (based on a wonderful play), but the demi moore character
    was a graphic designer, if i remember correctly:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0090583/\r\n\r\nand
    again at:\r\nwww.fast-rewind.com/alnight.htm"
  created: '2007-08-24 16:19:17'
- author:
    name: Knight
  body: "I always loved the opening title credits for Dr. Strangelove.\r\nAs for the
    type being a plot element, I thought that the recreation of Times Square was well
    done from the recent King Kong. \r\n\r\nOn a side note: I always loved the map
    in Goonies, even though it is not well done, but I thought it was still cool.\r\n\r\n-Joe"
  created: '2007-08-24 16:20:33'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "The \"Out-of-Towners\" starring Steve Martin as an Ad Executive who has an
    interview in New York. His hilarious hijinx throughout the movie become the concept
    for his interview presentation.\r\nIn \"Catwoman\" Haley Barry's character is
    a Graphic Designer during the day.\r\n\r\nAlso, if you goto www.imdb.com and search
    for Graphic Designer or Web Designer under plots, there's like 4 or 5 movies that
    come up with characters who play such roles.\r\n\r\nRecently, I watched a show
    on the Sci-Fi Channel called \"Mind-Control with Derren Brown\" who manipulates
    people with subliminal messages. Here's a video of him tricking two employees
    of the Saatchi and Saatchi ad agency that they'll pitch him an idea he has already
    written down.\r\n<a href=\"http://video.scifi.com/player/?id=134446\">Sci Fi Pulse</a>"
  created: '2007-08-24 16:57:37'
- author:
    name: typofoto
    picture: 109920
  body: In the 1991 Scorcese remake of Cape Fear, Jessica Lange's character is a graphic
    designer. She has a conversation with her daughter, played by Juliette Lewis,
    about how to draw a logo for a travel agency. Later on, the villain Max Cady (Robert
    De Niro) taunts her about her "pesky little sketches". Not quite a crucial plot
    point, but not a bad reference either.
  created: '2007-08-24 17:05:17'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "I did a quick search on imdb with typographer under plot and got this response:\r\n\r\n\"Cronache
    di poveri amanti (1954)\" : In 1925 the young florentine typographer Mario moves
    to via del Corno to be near his girl-friend Bianca.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-24 17:26:40'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: '"Cronache di poveri amanti" means "Chronicle of the poor lovers". Poor because
    they are star-crossed or poor because he can''t make a living at typography?'
  created: '2007-08-24 18:00:08'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Couldn't tell you, the rest of the plot goes like this: ...Here he becomes
    friends with Maciste, his landlord, and Ugo, anti-fascists both of them. When
    Campolmi is beaten by the fascists, Mario meets Milena, Campolmi's wife, at the
    hospital and falls in love with her leaving Bianca. Then Maciste is killed, again
    by the fascists, Ugo is wounded and he seeks shelter in ^\xD3Signora^\xD4's house.
    Here he falls in love with Gesuina and the two marry. Campolmi dies, but Mario
    and Milena part themselves. Later Mario too is arrested by the police.\r\n\r\nNo
    mention of how much typography this guy does, or even if he keeps doing it after
    moving to del Corno. The movie sounds like a political romance, like \"The American
    President\"."
  created: '2007-08-24 18:15:33'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: '[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Science_of_Sleep|The Science of Sleep]]
    (2006) has a gratuitous paste up scene.'
  created: '2007-08-24 18:15:34'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Not a movie (and perhaps not a plot element), but... \r\n\r\nAre any of you
    watching the excellent new series \"Mad Men,\" on AMC? It's set in a 1960 ad agency
    in NYC. One of the episodes showed the executives bemusedly tossing back and forth
    the Doyle Dane Bernbach Volkswagen \"Lemon\" print ad."
  created: '2007-08-24 18:15:39'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "Although not specifically about type or graphic design, Crazy People starring
    Dudley Moore comes to mind.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2007-08-24 20:36:55'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Are any of you watching the excellent new series \u201CMad Men,\u201D on
    AMC?\"\r\n\r\nI watched the pilot. I enjoyed the vibe of the era, and the cute
    jokes that reference the future (\"there is no imaginary machine that can make
    perfect copies of paper reports\"). But I'm not sure if they can drag an entire
    series along with that. Has the series remained watchable?"
  created: '2007-08-24 21:33:36'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Has the series remained watchable?\r\n\r\nWhy not. This is top 10 production!"
  created: '2007-08-24 21:43:45'
- author:
    name: Berg
    picture: 112334
  body: '[[http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0114134/|Pillow Book]], by Peter Greenaway'
  created: '2007-08-24 22:37:44'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Why not. This is top 10 production!\"\r\n\r\n;o)\r\n\r\nThe issue I had
    was that I wasn't sure there was a plot. OK, ad men. Suits. Booze. Machismo. Plot?"
  created: '2007-08-24 22:43:37'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "BTW, \"<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Ninth_Gate\">The Ninth
    Gate</a>\" is based on (about half of) the book \"<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Club_Dumas\">The
    Club Dumas</a>.\" I recommend the book much more highly, though I quite enjoyed
    the film. The radically different endings between the two are an interesting discussion
    item for those who've experienced both.\r\n\r\nAlso, note that the all-important
    book everyone's dying over in \"The Ninth Gate\" is a thinly-fictionalized version
    of the actual book \"<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypnerotomachia_Poliphili\">Hypnerotamachia
    Poliphili</a>\" (erotic dreams of Poliphilus), printed by Aldus in 1499. It's
    a stunning book, with cool typography and imagery. Another fictional unravelling
    of the secrets of this same book, but under its real name, is also the inspiration
    for the best-selling thriller \"<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Rule_of_Four\">The
    Rule of Four</a>,\" which is also being made into a film.\r\n\r\nOddly, the Wikipedia
    pages on \"The Ninth Gate\" and \"The Club Dumas\" don't even mention the <i>Hypnerotomachia</i>.\r\n\r\nDang,
    must get back to work.  :)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-08-24 22:47:24'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite> Burgess Meredith plays an expert Lin-o-type operator who turns out
    to be Satan.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat would explain how he eventually became the head
    of the company.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-24 23:33:43'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "I don't know exactly if this is what you meant, but I had to think about
    the movie 'pi', which is based around all kinds of spooky meanings and theories
    of the mathematical sign 'pi'.\r\n\r\ncheers Queneau"
  created: '2007-08-25 17:12:57'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: _Pi_ had a great soundtrack.
  created: '2007-08-25 18:27:01'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "<em>Burgess Meredith plays an expert Lin-o-type operator who turns out to
    be Satan.\r\n\r\nThat would explain how he eventually became the head of the company.</em>\r\n\r\neven
    Satan had to work his way up!"
  created: '2007-08-25 19:33:59'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> even Satan had to work his way up!\r\n\r\nAnd wouldn't you know his minions
    would be lawyers.\r\n; )"
  created: '2007-08-25 20:44:24'
- author:
    name: terryw
    picture: 109820
  body: "Burgess?\r\nNew thread anyone?\r\nThe devil made me do it."
  created: '2007-08-25 23:00:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"even Satan had to work his way up!\"\r\n\r\nHe had to work his way out
    of the Hellbox :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-25 23:12:24'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>He had to work his way out of the Hellbox</cite>\r\n\r\nWasn't Hell
    appropriately in Linotype's name at one time? Or did I dream that? (is that what
    this reference is to?)"
  created: '2007-08-25 23:22:37'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: fp- the hellbox is where typesetter's would toss discarded lead characters
  created: '2007-08-26 03:25:31'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I remember going to an exhibition of printing equipment way back when...\r\n\r\nThe
    was the Linotype booth, the Hiebleburg booth, and way, way off in the distancer
    was this huge sign that said \"HELL\"\r\n\r\nIt's now Linotype-Hell, I believe."
  created: '2007-08-26 13:09:15'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Linotype\u2013Hell AG was in existence from c. 1989 to 1997. Linotype AG
    acquired Dr.-Ing. Rudolf Hell GmbH in 1989, and then changed its company name.
    Heidelberg acquired Linotype\u2013Hell AG around 1997, at which point Linotype
    Library GmbH was formed (Heidelberg AG sold Linotype in 2006). The \"Library\"
    was dropped from Linotype's name in 2005, and the company is now known simply
    as Linotype GmbH.\r\n\r\n\"Hell\" was a great company. Its founder (Dr.-Ing. Rudolf
    Hell) invented both the fax machine and the scanner. They also created the world's
    first digital typesetting machine, the DigiSet, in 1968 I believe. Many designers,
    including Hermann Zaps and Gerard Unger, worked for Hell for a time. Note that
    they were both freelancers or external employees, as far as I know. This is important,
    because of the differentiation it creates\u2014while they may have worked for
    Hell, they did not work in Hell. Hell's offices, of course, were located in Kiel,
    a port city in Northern Germany.\r\n\r\nSome may be sad to hear that \"Hell\"
    no longer exists ;-)"
  created: '2007-08-26 13:33:03'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>Some may be sad to hear that \u201CHell\u201D no longer exists ;-)</cite>\r\n\r\nLOL.
    It does appear to be a kinder and friendlier company these days."
  created: '2007-08-26 14:06:17'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: I'm sorry but IMHO the Ninth Gate is awful and rates among my worst films
    of all time;  there was no ending and at times I felt like I was watching a Range
    rover ad. I couldn't believe Roman Polanski and Johnny Depp had produced this.
    Sorry if I missed something.
  created: '2007-08-27 00:49:01'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> Hell\u2019s offices, of course, were located in Kiel, a port city in Northern
    Germany.\r\n \r\nIs it true that a few winters back Hell froze over? I think it
    was a few months before Monotype purchased Linotype? ;-) "
  created: '2007-08-27 00:57:53'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I\u2019m sorry but IMHO the Ninth Gate is awful and rates among my
    worst films of all time...</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s half the reason I loved it.
    The Ninth Gate like watching a bigger-budget Hammer or  American International
    Pictures film. It has overacting, cheesy dialogue, gratuitous bosoms, and with
    the nerdiest plot to hit a film since Wargames.\r\n\r\n<cite>I couldn\u2019t believe
    Roman Polanski and Johnny Depp had produced this.</cite>\r\n\r\nPolanski has a
    dearth of critical thinking skills that tend to get him into all sorts of trouble.
    Thankfully he\u2019s been limiting that trouble to crummy movies for a while now.
    But yeah, Depp should have known better."
  created: '2007-08-27 03:22:30'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "<cite> Polanski has a dearth of critical thinking skills that tend to get
    him into all sorts of trouble. </cite>\r\n \r\nOh right? So is this movie kinda
    formalist? I can see the Hammer thing; and I'm sure I must have missed something;
    Chinatown/Rosemary's Baby are so good and you just can't usually fault Depp on
    his movie choices... it just seemed so spectaularly bad that there must be a deeper
    (or shallower) meaning that's hidden to the casual viewer. Surely. Or perhaps
    it was just that making advertisements for Shell (? pretty sure it was shell)
    and Range Rover was worth it so that other and better movies could get made. I
    remember one shot that made us laugh out loud, Depp is walking down a otherwise
    dark and dingy London street completely emptied of any colour apart from a huge
    and glowing Shell sign attched to a building behind him!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-27 05:12:28'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: A similar if less sophisticated device of the type used by Stranger than fiction
    was used in Fight club; As Ed Norton's character walks around the aparment, everything
    progressively appears and is labelled and priced so it looks like an IKEA catalogue
    . And you can't mention type in films and David Fincher without talking about
    the awesome opening titles in Se7en featuring the feverish obsessive scratchings
    of Kevin Spacey's Psychopathic serial-killer.
  created: '2007-08-27 05:15:02'
- author:
    name: kobhart
  body: "There's a neat little Russian import called \"Night Watch\" that got pretty
    creative with the subtitles on the dvd here in the U.S. (and maybe at the theaters
    too?).  I've never seen subs treated that way before, and thought it was an excellent
    idea. They added a whole new  dimension to the movie by animating the type, and
    was like the subtitles became another character in the movie.  Did nobody mention
    this? \r\n\r\nBeats plain old 24 point arial all the way through. "
  created: '2007-08-27 05:49:26'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Another one by Peter Greenaway \u2014 with a lot of type, if I remember correctly:
    <strong>Prospero\u2019s Books</strong><cite>\r\nhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0102722/</cite>\r\n\r\n___\r\nBert
    Vanderveen BNO\r\n\r\n[Edit: Sorry, that\u2019s already been mentioned.]"
  created: '2007-08-27 14:00:05'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>...I\u2019m sure I must have missed something; Chinatown/Rosemary\u2019s
    Baby are so good...</cite>\r\n\r\nI tend to see Polanski as perpetually overrated.
    But I also think the same about Vertigo and Citizen Kane, so my views on cinema
    are far from agreement with film buffs."
  created: '2007-08-27 15:36:01'
- author:
    name: Jon Parker
    picture: 109957
  body: "I enjoyed <em>A Merry War</em>, featuring Richard E. Grant as a copywriter
    and Helena Bonham Carter as a graphic designer who meet at work. (And not just
    because I'm a copywriter who married a graphic designer.)\r\n\r\n\"Grant stars
    as Gordon Comstock, a successful copywriter at a flourishing advertising firm
    in 1930's London. His girlfriend and coworker, Rosemary (Bonham-Carter), fears
    he may never settle down with her when he suddenly disavows his money-based lifestyle
    and quits his job for the artistic satisfaction of writing poetry. Based on George
    Orwell's novel \"Keep the Aspidistra Flying\".\"\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/merry_war/\">Rotten
    Tomatoes review</a> | <a href=\"http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0119453/\">IMDB Entry</a>\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-27 18:51:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I loved The Pianist and Oliver Twist, especially the outdoor mise-en-sc\xE8nes.
    Recreating 19th century London from Dor\xE9 prints--brilliant."
  created: '2007-08-27 19:25:59'
- author:
    name: glytch
  body: "Can't overlook some of the earliest American interactive films, e.g., Merrie
    Melodies, Silly Symphonies, and others from the late 1920s and early \u201930s.
    The karaoke of their time, these bouncing ball sing-alongs were nothing without
    lyrics and the beat. The \"type\" was hand-lettered, but still an essential -
    - sometimes the only - - element of plot in these forerunners of music video.
    The films were designed to promote pop music."
  created: '2007-08-28 00:48:06'
- author:
    name: dave nalle
    picture: 113027
  body: "Don't forget the relatively recent remake of <i>13 Ghosts</i> where the Da
    Vinci handwriting font has a larger role, better acted and with considerably more
    screen time than F. Murray Abraham and Matthew Lillard added together.\r\n\r\nDave
    Nalle\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontcraft.com\">Scriptorium Fonts</a>"
  created: '2007-08-28 05:37:53'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Well, look what the cat dragged in.\r\n\r\n(and I meant that in a good way)\r\n;
    )\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-30 01:42:54'
- author:
    name: courtney_oneka
  body: "THE BOOK OF ELI\r\n\r\nsuch a good film, dont want to spoil it for anyone
    that hasnt seen it. \r\nanyone that has... letterpress"
  created: '2011-08-20 16:24:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Park Row.\r\nIt even has Ottmar Mergenthaler as a character.\r\nhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0045009/\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nMany
    silent movies used written or printed documents (eg telegrams) as plot elements
    (reducing the need for intertitles to represent speech)\r\nMy favorites: Nosferatu
    and The Phantom of the Opera.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nInside advertising films:\r\n\r\nThe
    Hucksters, Clark Gable. Sydney Greenstreet as the worst client ever, gobbing on
    the boardroom table.\r\n\r\nGood Neighbour Sam, Jack Lemon. Great scenes of ad
    men hyping each other in client presentations to E.G. Robinson.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-20 18:08:41'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Thomas Phinney:\r\n<cite>Another fictional unravelling of the secrets of
    this same book, but under its real name, is also the inspiration for the best-selling
    thriller \"The Rule of Four,\" which is also being made into a film.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    remember being chagrined when the author of The Rule of Four, in an interview,
    went on about how terrifically obscure the Hypnerotomachia Polyphilii is... since
    it is referred to in many books about the history of typography as one of the
    paramount examples of the art, it wasn't that completely forgotten."
  created: '2011-08-20 20:41:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'Perhaps he was referring to a different kind of obscurity: it''s an allegory
    concealing meaning, written in deliberately mashed up language, a sort of Renaissance
    Ulysses (Joyce). '
  created: '2011-08-20 23:45:41'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Not sure if this exactly fits the topic, but I think of the great typewriter
    manuscript scene in The Shining, in which Shelly Duvall discovers that the book
    manuscript Jack Nicholson has been typing for months is just a ream of pages saying
    \"All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.\" \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/shining_5747.jpg]"
  created: '2011-08-21 01:43:58'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I forgot about this thread. Looking through it again, I can't believe no one
    mentioned <em>Memento</em> (2000), where the main character, who is unable to
    make new memories after the murder of his wife, covers himself with elaborate
    tattoo lettering as a way to remember as he tries to find the killer.
  created: '2011-08-21 15:17:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: The Woodward and Bernstein Watergate investigation film, "All the President's
    Men",  showed quite a bit of typing and makeready n newspaper production.
  created: '2011-08-21 17:52:49'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: .
  created: '2011-08-21 22:05:21'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Just a clip. I had a longer list somewhere:\r\n\r\n<strong>Movie title</strong>\r\nFriends
    with Benefits (2011)\r\n\r\n<strong>Type joke at</strong>:\r\n~19:40 (delivered
    by Woody Harrelson)"
  created: '2011-08-21 23:50:05'
- author:
    name: sevag
    picture: 120891
  body: "[[http://vimeo.com/10149605?utm_medium=nxt.st-mailto/|Logorama (2009)]]?\r\n[[http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0978762/|Mary
    and Max (2009)]]?\r\n[[http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0405094/|The Lives of Others
    (2006)]]?\r\n[[http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0382625/|The Da Vinci Code (2006)]]?\r\n[[http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0091605/|The
    Name of the Rose (1986)]]?\r\n\r\n_\r\n\r\n<strong>Jorge de Burgos:</strong> Laughter
    is a devilish wind which deforms, uh, the lineaments of the face and makes men
    look like monkeys.\r\n<strong>William of Baskerville:</strong> Monkeys do not
    laugh. Laughter is particular to men.\r\n<strong>Jorge de Burgos:</strong> As
    is sin. Christ never laughed.\r\n<strong>William of Baskerville:</strong> Can
    we be so sure?\r\n<strong>Jorge de Burgos:</strong> There is nothing in the Scriptures
    to say that he did.\r\n<strong>William of Baskerville:</strong> And there's nothing
    in the Scriptures to say that he did not. Why, even the saints have been known
    to employ comedy, to ridicule the enemies of the Faith. For example, when the
    pagans plunged St. Maurice into the boiling water, he complained that his bath
    was too cold. The Sultan put his hand in... scalded himself. \r\n\r\n_\r\n\r\nA
    quote form 'The Name of the Rose (1986)'"
  created: '2011-08-22 00:00:32'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "The hound of Baskervilles (Lenfilm, 1981)\r\nhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0083100/\r\n\r\n\"There
    is as much difference to my eyes between the leaded bourgeois type of a Times
    article and the slovenly print of an evening halfpenny paper as there could be
    between your negro and your Esquimaux. The detection of types is one of the most
    elementary branches of knowledge to the special expert in crime, though I confess
    that once when I was very young I confused the Leeds Mercury with the Western
    Morning News. But a Times leader is entirely distinctive, and these words could
    have been taken from nothing else.\""
  created: '2011-08-22 17:08:17'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: Somebody ought to make a movie about Noel Loomis, described here by Bill Gulick
    in his book, <em>Sixty-Four Years as a Writer:</em> "Noel Loomis was . . . [l]iving
    in Minneapolis and a Linotype operator by trade, he was trying to get established
    as a full-time writer of Western novels, though he still paid his union dues and
    held onto his day job. A feisty little guy with a black mustache, Loomis dealt
    in hot lead both figuratively and actively, for he heated up the lead pot each
    morning, straddled a stool shaped like a saddle, and composed on the linotype
    while wearing a black cowboy hat, boots, spurs, and at times, I suspect, a holstered
    six-gun or two."
  created: '2011-08-23 01:11:52'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'W.C. Fields, "The Bank Dick" is a movie filled with startling typographic
    backgrounds. And the latest "Conan the Barbarian" is based on the work of Chris
    Lilly, or so I''m told. '
  created: '2011-08-23 13:12:24'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>There was a German film I saw a few years ago on TV... I think it dated
    from the'80s.</cite>\r\n\r\nRussell the name of that movie was \"Men\".\r\n\r\nI
    saw it when it first came out. I love those crazy elevators at the design firm's
    offices.\r\n\r\nOne of my all time favorites. I've been trying to find that on
    DVD to no avail."
  created: '2011-08-23 19:28:12'
- author:
    name: KCH
    picture: 123207
  body: Fincher's work often contains key, type-related elements. Aside from Se7en
    and Fight Club, there's the killer's cyphers and "logo" in Zodiac, and the ongoing
    attempts to identify him through samples of handwriting.
  created: '2011-09-02 15:59:11'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "thanks, James!!!\r\n\r\nIt's been driving me nuts trying to think of the
    name.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-09-02 17:28:41'
- author:
    name: dinazina
    picture: 113020
  body: russellm, I believe that German film is called "Men..." I enjoyed it.
  created: '2011-09-03 04:02:04'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>The Science of Sleep</em>\r\n\r\nThe protagonist, St\xE9phane (Gael Garc\xEDa
    Bernal), is tasked with a typesetting job at a calendar design company. His anxieties
    about the job feature quite prominently. It\u2019s a beautiful film."
  created: '2011-09-12 15:47:36'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "@ dinazina & James,\r\n\r\nThanks.\r\n\r\n\r\nNow to find it online or DVD..."
  created: '2011-09-12 21:56:35'
- author:
    name: Stratentast
    picture: 123372
  body: "not a movie and it has nothing to do with the plot\r\nBut the TV series Boardwalk
    Empire is a typeface bonanza "
  created: '2011-09-13 18:56:32'
- author:
    name: JCSalomon
    picture: 128147
  body: "Shame no one\u2019s made a movie out of Fredric Brown\u2019s <em>Etaoin Shrdlu</em>."
  created: '2011-09-13 19:25:04'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: In John Updike's novel, "Rabbit, Run," the protagonist works as a typesetter.
    I haven't seen the 1970 movie, though, so I don't know if that detail made it
    to the screen.
  created: '2011-09-13 22:35:24'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@JCSalomon:\r\n<cite>Shame no one\u2019s made a movie out of Fredric Brown\u2019s
    <em>Etaoin Shrdlu</em>.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't suppose that was the one the famous
    <em>Twilight Zone</em> episode was based on...\r\n\r\nAh. A Google search shows
    that, no, that story was quite different from the Twilight Zone episode \"Printer's
    Devil\"."
  created: '2011-09-14 06:00:52'
- author:
    name: mrl55
  body: the movie RocknRolla. When Johnny Quid is playing the piano and explaining
    the appeal of the design of the cigarette packaging. Not all about type, but a
    brilliant scene about the power of design
  created: '2012-04-09 18:35:25'
date: '2007-08-23 15:21:01'
title: Movies where type/graphic design is a plot element.

---
