---
author:
  name: lindsay noble
  picture: 112350
body: "hey\r\n\r\nim currently researching into the relationship between women and
  typography/type design, and im looking at the implications of gender in industry.\r\n\r\nIm
  hoping to use a base of primary research, so Id like to see if any of you guys have
  experiences or opinions on the subject. Reading a thread on Carol Twombly, there
  seems to be rumors of discrimination (but nothing so factual.. infact ill look for
  her biography) Id like to see how things have changed since then. Im interested
  in whats going on currently - Im sure everyone would like to think equality is here,
  and im not trying to point some feminist finger. Im interested because I have found
  hardly any literature on the subject, and believe its not fully explored territory.\r\n\r\nareas
  of interest:\r\n\r\n-Is gender an issue that has affected you as a designer?\r\n-Do
  you think you have had to work harder for the recognition you have achieved because
  you are a woman?\t\r\n-Has your gender affected the course of your career in terms
  of your decisions and the options open to you?\r\n-Do you think it would be beneficial
  for there to be more support for women within typography and type design?\r\n-Have
  you found that women are hidden away in production, or cluster in behind-the-scenes
  jobs?\r\n-Do in-built female traits make women unsuitable for dominant, leading
  positions?\r\n-Does a combination of male and female typographers form a stronger
  force, balancing skills from each side?\r\n-Is there a difference in the way each
  gender uses typography? Are skills in using type gender specific?\r\n-Are female
  typographers (and designers) forced to masculinize themselves to 'fit in' to male
  organisations/earn male respect?\r\n-Is gender no longer an issue, and we should
  be concentrating more on the individual instead of grouping them?\r\n\r\n\r\nIm
  very interested in your responses, please refer me to an older thread if youve done
  this all before \r\n\r\n\r\nthanks\r\n\r\nLindsay\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: BradB
    picture: 111285
  body: This might not amount to much, but Zuzana Licko is responsible for many of
    Emigre's releases, if not the majority of them, and I don't think of them as either
    masculine or feminine.
  created: '2007-08-24 16:37:41'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Not being a woman I can\u2019t provide much insight into most of your questions...\r\n\r\nMilton
    Glaser wrote a piece for Design Observer last year about the relative lack of
    women in the upper echelons of design, which was quite striking given that in
    the lower and middle ranks of the industry, as well as in design school, women
    outnumber men. It generated a very heated discussion, and is worth reading.\r\n\r\nIt
    would be worthwhile to see if relevant professional organizations can provide
    you with information about the gender breakdown of their membership, especially
    over time. Government Education agencies could probably provide information about
    the number of women enrolled in design programs, and possibly the number of women
    teaching in design programs."
  created: '2007-08-24 16:57:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sibylle Hagmann (Cholla, etc.) article, \u201CNon-existent design: women
    and the creation of type\u201D\r\nYou\u2019ll need a subscription to Visual Communication
    Online to read it.\r\nhttp://vcj.sagepub.com/cgi/reprint/4/2/186?maxtoshow=&HITS=10&hits=10&RE..."
  created: '2007-08-24 20:00:29'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "It is a shame that there are not more women in type design. However, when
    one looks at the incoming MA Typeface Design students at Reading, the percentages
    are much closer to 50/50 than the industry in general.\r\n\r\nIn July I interviewed
    Carol Twombly for a presentation I was doing. I specifically asked her if she
    had encountered any gender bias while at Adobe, and she said that she certainly
    hadn't encountered any at all within the type group (and IIRC not much outside
    it).\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-26 06:19:08'
- author:
    name: Nicole Dotin
    picture: 110879
  body: "Have you read Linda Nochlin's essay \"Why Have There Been No Great Women
    Artists?\" (I am sure it's on the interwebs...) \r\n\r\nIt is from the 70s, and
    in that sense is dated, but examines all the ingrained assumptions located in
    the question itself - why are there no great women artists - and posits that the
    wrong question is being asked.\r\n\r\nThe fact that Thomas is still asking Carol
    about her experiences as a women is a clue that we're not quite past it all (it
    happens frequently elsewhere, too). Is the real issue women in type design, or
    the overall lack of diversity in the field? Even this is problematic because the
    field is everyday growing more and more diverse as others have noted... there
    are more women in type design than ever before. Something to be excited about
    - but it seems to get lost in everyone moaning about the lack of women in type.\r\n\r\nLocating
    the question is both a part of the problem and the solution.\r\n\r\n(BTW, I am
    not trying to suggest you've come up with 'bad' questions, rather just thinking
    in general about how the subject of women in type design is too often approached
    in ways that reinforce rather than challenge dominant attitudes.)"
  created: '2007-08-26 10:32:55'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "<em>Milton Glaser wrote a piece for Design Observer last year about the relative
    lack of women in the upper echelons of design, which was quite striking given
    that in the lower and middle ranks of the industry, as well as in design school,
    women outnumber men.</em>\r\n\r\nwhile milton might have observed the inbalance,
    it really shouldn't be all that surprising to him.\r\n\r\n\r\nwhen i was in design
    school in the early eighties, probably 70% of the students in graphic arts were
    male. by the time i graduated in 84, it seemed like the incoming classes were
    closer to 60-40.\r\n\r\nnow, as a professor myself, i think the break is more
    like 60-70% female to 40-30% male. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-26 17:47:29'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "I can speak up as a woman in design. In New York I owned my own typeshop.
    Very few women worked in typeshops, nevertheless own one.\r\n\r\nIt was always
    explained to me that because of \"hot metal\" days, galleys were just too heavy
    for women to pick up and move around the shop, and therefore were discouraged
    from working in typeshops.\r\n\r\nBut if you are speaking of design, woman have
    always been there. I think it just depends on which commercial entity for design
    we are talking about. Woman have been art directors in all the major publishing
    houses - some have even been presidents and ceos. BTW, who do you think design
    greeting cards?\r\n\r\nMaybe it is the same double standard, women do the work
    and want to be paid. They just don't go tooting their horns about it. They are
    there, but you have to find them -- they are the ones buried at the workplace,
    because, well, as every man knows, you want the job done, give it to the busy
    person - and yes, it's that poor, overworked woman."
  created: '2007-08-27 06:29:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>now, as a professor myself, i think the break is more like 60-70% female
    to 40-30% male.</em>\r\n\r\nAre the boys going into game design?"
  created: '2007-08-27 07:01:33'
- author:
    name: akluna
    picture: 112994
  body: "I just attended TYPECON Seattle. I asked myself the same question when I
    attended the one critique session that happened there. There were 8 conference
    attendees signed up for it. They were all men with the exception of the last one,
    which was a woman, but who sent her work to be presented by a man because she
    couldn't attend the conference herself. She lives in Holland and was just starting
    to design typefaces. The 3 big-time-type-design professionals on the critique
    panel were also men.\r\n\r\nI was pretty surprised that there was not woman bringing
    some work of her own to show. It was great to see all the critiques, but it would
    be nice to have somebody of the same gender going up the podium to show some work.
    I could have been even more inspiring to me."
  created: '2007-08-27 07:03:19'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>while milton might have observed the inbalance, it really shouldn\u2019t
    be all that surprising to him.</cite>\r\n\r\nI got the impression that he was
    not surprised at the imbalance so much as surprised that it has not changed much
    in the last few decades.\r\n\r\nI think that Ellen Lupton brought up some important
    gender-related stuff in her Typeradio interview when they were talking about her
    kids. It wasn\u2019t so much a discussion of discrimination as it was about work/life
    balance, but it\u2019s might be relevant to your research."
  created: '2007-08-27 07:29:26'
- author:
    name: ultrasparky
    picture: 109750
  body: "\"-Have you found that women are hidden away in production, or cluster in
    behind-the-scenes jobs?\"\r\n\r\nIt's a shame that there's not more documentation
    about the behind-the-scenes work that used to go on in the larger foundries, because
    certain areas of activity appear to have been completely dominated by women, even
    when men got the credit or managed the activity. \r\n\r\nI've been reading about
    the development of Times New Roman, for example, where credit generally goes to
    Stanley Morison for the idea and the art direction, and a production artist named
    Victor Lardent for the initial drawings. Different sources appear to agree that
    once the basic principles were established that all the real work of expanding
    the drawings into full fonts with different sizes and complete character sets
    were done by the drawing office. Every photo I've seen of the drawing office &mdash;
    including ones published at the time by Monotype &mdash; shows women doing the
    work. The little bit that I've looked at Linotype seems to show the same situation.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not surprised that people at the production level never get to share in the credit,
    but it's astounding that areas of the industry could be so dominated by women
    with so few &mdash; if any &mdash; of them going on to larger, more influential
    positions. It makes me wonder if overall diversity in the field has improved as
    the parts of the overall development process have become less segmented."
  created: '2007-08-27 09:39:55'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "<em>Are the boys going into game design?</em>\r\n\r\nmaybe they're just playing
    video games..."
  created: '2007-08-27 19:07:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>It makes me wonder if overall diversity in the field has improved as
    the parts of the overall development process have become less segmented.</em>\r\n\r\nLindsay,
    the base of primary data on this doesn't exist, so to avoid the fate of \"pointing
    a feminist finger\" you will have to do your own research: survey all the foundries
    and get some statisitics. Otherwise, you're just going on guesswork, opinions
    and preconceptions. While you're at it, you could also gather information on age,
    ethnicity, religion, education, income, health, and sexual orientation, which
    would be useful to other researchers.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-27 19:13:28'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: in my own experience, i know many women who are art directors, vice-presidents
    and presidents and partners of large and small studios and firms.
  created: '2007-08-27 20:16:42'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Lindsay, you say you'll look for a biography of Carol Twombly. There isn't
    one. Very few type designers rate biographies and Carol isn't anywhere near getting
    one, though it would be interesting. I'd like to comment on Thomas's statement
    that he interviewed CT and she stated she had never suffered discrimination at
    the type group. \r\n\r\nCarol Twombly would sooner die than say she was discriminated
    against. \r\n\r\nNow read the recent thread, a few days ago, on design piracy
    when I reposted some interesting recollections of John Downer's about Carol Twombly
    and her role in the design of Trajan. \r\n\r\nShe's portrayed by Downer as a non-entity,
    a servant at the command of her art director. No male type designer would _ever_
    be portrayed this way. Downer perfectly captures who Twombly was seen at Adobe,
    and it isn't a pretty picture. But nobody will directly utter the statement 'she/I
    was discriminated against on the basis of gender.\r\n\r\nCarol is the ideal victim
    for gender discrimination, because she is absolutely incapable of acknowledging
    it directly. She truly is the 'good girl of type', a role she played to perfection.\r\n\r\nYou'll
    learn about her not by asking questions like 'did you suffer gender discrimination'
    -- but by finding out what actually happened day by day in her career. Use what
    Strachey called the 'indirect approach' to biography and you could discover a
    lot of interesting things. If you can find out what people actually did, you'll
    get the picture.\r\n\r\nI talked to Carol on the phone almost every day from roughly
    1997 to 1999 and there was hardly a day when there wasn't a struggle with Robert
    Slimbach and Fred Brady. Guess who always lost? I suspect some of those conversations
    were taped, a potential trove for a researcher. During the time that Carol was
    my art director, she was incapable of making a single decision for herself. She
    always had to bow to the opinions of Fred and Robert, or life would have been
    even more unbearable than it was. She was not allowed to do her job. It was inconceivable.\r\n\r\nYou
    could also learn a lot about gender discrimination at Adobe from E.M. Ginger in
    Oakland -- if she were willing to talk. Nobody is going to tell you the truth,
    however, if they still have any financial dependency on Adobe or any related company.
    That makes your work difficult but not impossible. \r\n\r\nTalk to the guys at
    Adobe. None of them will ever say they discriminated against Carol -- not in a
    million years. Then have them talk about her years there in detail, get the stories.
    You'll find she was treated like a gastropod, time after time after time. The
    discrimination is unconscious on the guys' parts, it seems to me -- automatic.
    I'd like to say it's Carol's fault, for never once protesting, never once losing
    her cool -- and it is. But that would just be blaming the victim.\r\n\r\nThere's
    a former PR employee who knows a lot of the narrative and who could tell it from
    a woman's point of view. I don't remember her name; I'll try to find it if you're
    interested.\r\n\r\nCarol's own impeccable demeanour is what makes her story interesting.
    She wears an armour of dignity that is impenetrable. No French nobleman ever went
    to the guillotine with a more authentic smile. It's difficult to think of anyone
    else who was as bland as she was heroic. I say this even though her invariable
    and gracious acceptance of the fate meted out to her cost me much.\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: SaranP
    body: I completely agree with everything you are saying in relation to the problem
      with asking women have they been discriminated against? Some women may not even
      realize it themselves - not because they are silly but because it is ingrained
      in our society. Women ARE discriminated against this is a fact all you have
      to do is look at the difference in pay packets for similar jobs. To even think
      that the design industry is not doing this is ridiculous. Design is a male dominated
      industry, the same way art is - just look at the statistics of how many women
      have shows in the major art galleries - how many have representation etc and
      part of the problem is that Men at the top of their game ask friends to do work
      for them, so jobs aren't advertised, passed on mostly to other male friends.
      I had first hand experience of seeing this happen during my time as a designer.
      Another thing that drives me crazy is when the discussion happens about the
      token Woman. This is ridiculous we need a balance  and how many token Men are
      there? Just my two cents, most of the history about design and women's involvement
      is not being taught at Uni, and certainly not being taught by women because
      most of the professors are men- it's a vicious cycle. It needs to change. However
      Lindsay I wonder that if you can't see it yourself will it be easy to recognize?
      and I mean this in the nicest possible way. Do you, yourself believe that Women
      are being treated equally? An interesting project http://everydaysexism.com/
    created: '2014-03-13 10:37:11'
  created: '2007-08-28 09:37:28'
- author:
    name: Nicole Dotin
    picture: 110879
  body: Bill, I truly admire your loyalty to Carol and your impulse to tell 'her side
    of the story'. But, unless she has authorized you to speak for her, it's not yours
    to tell and has little meaning coming from you - it's just hearsay.
  created: '2007-08-28 10:36:23'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "You're quite right, Nicole, to sense as I think you do that Carol would wince
    if she knew she was being discussed or should I say dissected in this way. Perhaps
    it is quite wrong of me to do it. But the party line makes my blood boil. When
    I hear the same old mendacious platitudes, I have to speak. She left Adobe, and
    type, because it was made unbearable and hateful for her, and I sometimes wish
    I had the courage to follow her example. \r\n\r\nDrama aside, the way in which
    the founding post on this thread was framed raises an interesting question: to
    what extent did CT suffer from gender discrimination, to what extent did she suffer
    because her male colleagues were dreadful people? What is the line that separates
    personal cussedness from plausible discrimination? \r\n\r\nI would suggest that
    Carol was a product of generation. If anything, she had the mindset of the generation
    before. It's difficult to imagine a 25 year old woman today accepting or even
    being offered the same kind of treatment.\r\n\r\nAvital Ronell suggests that we
    may finally have entered a time when we are 'Jenseits von Gut und B\xF6se/Jenseits
    von Mann and Frau' -- that is, Nietzsche was worried about being beyond good and
    evil, Ronell is worried about being beyond man and woman, and suggests that the
    time may already have arrived. Gender politics moves quickly! At least I hope
    it does."
  created: '2007-08-28 13:50:38'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "An earlier poster mentioned that the famed 'drawing room girls' were all
    women. There being no verifiable author of Monotype Bembo (which really is as
    much an independent typeface of its time as it is an adaptation of Griffo's punches),
    I had what I thought was the shrewed suspicion that the girls had done it and
    nobody wanted to admit it. I haven't been able to find any real support for this.
    But David Saunders told me that if it was any one of them that he knew of, then
    it would be Dora ____ (I'm blanking out on her surname though I have notes of
    our conversations.) It would be very difficult to learn anything more, and it's
    probably just a feminist pipedream, but it did seem to me worth pursuing. \r\n\r\nOne
    thing to consider about Carol and type design: there are exceptionally few corporate
    type design jobs available. Carol wasn't replaced when she left. She must be one
    of the very few women in recent years who had the experience of being a typeface
    designer for a large corporation. \r\n\r\nCynthia Hollandsworth would be a great
    person to interview for experiences of a slightly earlier period. Doesn't Arthur
    Baker insist that all her ideas came from him? Typical! \r\n\r\nFor someone like
    Licko with her own company, one would assume that gender was as little of an issue
    as it could be.\r\n\r\nAnd what of Gudrun ZvH ? ? ? ? Such things one hears! Ma
    sotto voce!"
  created: '2007-08-28 21:02:35'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "OK, here's another conspiracy theory, engendered by Sparky's remarks about
    Times. We all know how there is no theory of the authorship of Times that will
    hold water. This was true long before the outrageous fictions of the irrepressible
    Giampa. Suppose that ... it was the girls who did it? Who accomplished the miracle
    of transforming Lardent's interesting drawings into a very different, but real,
    type. (Lardent's font has been privately digitized by Matthew Carter; Jeff Level
    gave me a dinner invitation printed in it.) Suppose that nobody could bear to
    give the girls credit? Suppose there were a couple of them who really knew what
    they were doing, whose advice was taken by the boys? But it's just as possible
    they were obedient robots. If anyone could _possibly_ find out more about them,
    track down their spouses, their children, grandchildren, get hold of their correspondence
    -- then maybe we might just finally learn what really did happen. I was wrong
    to focus on Bembo. Times, as suggested, is a much better candidate.\r\n\r\nAnd
    by the way, how serious is this inquiry anyway? Serious enough to bother putting
    apostrophes into contractions where they are almost universally agreed to belong? "
  created: '2007-08-28 21:19:22'
- author:
    name: ultrasparky
    picture: 109750
  body: "Actually, everything I've been reading about the Monotype drawing office
    at the time makes me suspect it was \"the girls\" who did the bulk of the job
    of getting Times New Roman &mdash; and everything else that came out of the drawing
    office &mdash; to work. I think \"conspiracy\" is a strong word for it, and probably
    inaccurate. In fact, no one in the production chain ever seems to get mentioned,
    just the fact that every character's matrix went through about 80 stages of development
    and refinement. (One of the reasons Lardent got a nod even at the time was probably
    due in part to the fact that he worked for <em>The Times</em>, and was outside
    the Monotype pipeline.) Morison art directed, Lardent developed a set of drawings
    based on that direction, and an anonymous team over the course of a few decades
    developed that basic alphabet into a type family with thousands and thousands
    of characters. Judging from what I've seen and heard so far, most of those people
    were women, but it would probably take a close look at old Monotype payroll records
    to say for sure. And I bet it was the same at Linotype, and ATF, and other places.
    \r\n\r\nIt seems like it was the contribution of the production teams that was
    glossed over, more than the contribution of women as opposed to men. The better
    question may be why certain positions were traditionally women's work, and if
    there were any chances for any of those skilled women to move into other roles.
    \r\n\r\nIt's a thorny issue: at what point does someone in that industry stop
    being a production person and start being a designer? Are we quicker to consider
    someone a designer now that the process is less industrialized &mdash; less about
    the physical stuff and more about the intellectual property? There are so many
    layers to peel on this particular onion, and any institutionalized sexism is only
    one of them. As Nicole said earlier (and she and I have often discussed this year),
    it's hard to even figure out what the most useful questions are. It makes my head
    hurt.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-28 23:44:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Morison art directed,</em>\r\n\r\nOr, as he put it, \"excogitated\".\r\n\r\nBTW,
    two good books on commercial design history with chapters on the role of women:\r\n\r\nThe
    Origins of Graphic Design in America, Ellen Mazur Thomson\r\nArtists, Advertising
    and the Borders of Art, Michele Bogart"
  created: '2007-08-29 03:27:17'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Sparky, without knowing much more about it, I get the feeling that Benton
    did most of the work at ATF, and at Lino, you kind of get the feeling that G.
    Jones, Griffith, etc. were more in control than Morison ever was. Remember the
    story about Fournier going into production while 'the typographical advisor was
    absent' or something like that, and they didn't even use the right model. (You
    could read that two ways: the whole factory was hopeless without Morison's guidance;
    or that the factory didn't need Morison, since Fournier is incredibly well-implemented.
    The implication, to me, is that Morison could show the drawing office an historical
    print, and they could come up with a great, modern type, without him. (Fournier
    really, really, really is great in metal, just beautifully done, especially the
    gem-like smaller sizes; don't judge it by the pathetic digitization, but by old
    Penguins which use the smallest sizes.) The picture that's getting drawn here
    is that Morison was an incredible idea-man but that the actual work was done by
    either Pierpont or by the girls.\r\n\r\nI think Nick is extremely on target to
    focus on that word excogitate. It has always struck me as a weird usage, concealing
    something. It rankles. It's almost as if he's announcing, 'I'm going to tell a
    lie.' because there is no way that it can literally be true.\r\n\r\nLots of interesting
    inferences. How to prove them? If only a single one of the girls left behind a
    document ... is it even faintly possible that the MT archives might contain some
    sort of memo of working procedure that might reveal more? \r\n\r\nSpeaking of
    the archives, David Saunders noted that the drawings always were signed with the
    initials of the girl who drew them. He suggested that if Dora ___'s initials were
    on the principal Bembo drawings, it would be an inference in favour of my theory,
    though not more.\r\n\r\nBy contrast, looking at the article on the making of Juliana
    at Linotype in the 1950s, the implication is that primarily Hartz and Tracy are
    concerned, nobody else seems to matter. Yet what if the better sizes (better,
    according to Hartz, perhaps because he had least to do with them) were primarily
    so because of the girls?"
  created: '2007-08-29 19:59:03'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "One other thing re Times. Let's suppose that there were master drawings for
    it. But the different sizes in Times vary more widely from (let's say) the 12
    point than any other 20th century typeface I can think of. Who did that? \r\n\r\nFinally:
    this is grim. I can't recall exactly how the conversation went, but I asked D.
    Saunders if the girls ever actually saw the type in use. He said (speaking of
    course from a later period -- did he start there in the mid-1950s?) that he didn't
    think it likely."
  created: '2007-08-29 20:08:51'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "And all of this corroborates my theorem that women could and should rule.
    If only they were as ruthless as men\u2026\r\n\r\n___\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2007-08-29 21:09:59'
- author:
    name: ultrasparky
    picture: 109750
  body: "Trust me, I'm not trying to defend Morison. Everything I've been reading
    seems to make it more and more obvious that he happily accepted a lot of credit
    for being the idea man, leaving the real work of figuring out the type to the
    Monotype staff. In this case, \"art director\" is at best a polite way of saying
    he didn't do the heavy lifting. But who were all those folks that did? That's
    what I wish I had more time to figure out.\r\n\r\nAs for Linotype, from what I've
    heard from Tracy's successor &mdash; a women, at least in the non-Latin office
    &mdash; it was ALL about the girls &mdash; no, the women &mdash; and their skill.
    I've been seeing those drawings all Summer, and they're breathtaking."
  created: '2007-08-29 21:20:17'
- author:
    name: ultrasparky
    picture: 109750
  body: 'In the interests of getting back to Lindsay''s research and hopefully gathering
    together a little evidence to back up all the anecdotal stuff, I set up a Flickr
    pool about [[http://www.flickr.com/groups/516762@N22/|Women in Type Design]] to
    help make things a bit less abstract. '
  created: '2007-08-29 21:58:57'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I\u2019ve been seeing those drawings all Summer, and they\u2019re breathtaking.</cite>\r\n\r\nAre
    there attributions, signatures, or notes to go along with those drawings\u2014or
    your photos\u2014that shed more light on the women behind the fonts? And thanks
    for posting those photos, those are the first good visual evidence I\u2019ve seen
    to support the notion of women doing so much and not getting the credit (at least
    in this field, anyway)."
  created: '2007-08-30 00:26:26'
- author:
    name: ultrasparky
    picture: 109750
  body: "I can't really give away anything about the non-Latin drawings right now.
    The Typography Department at Reading and the St. Bride Library are each mounting
    exhibitions of drawings and working documents, beginning during the [[http://stbride.org/events_education/events/non-latintypefacedesign|non-latin
    typeface design conference]] in September. I think there will be some sort of
    a catalogue put together of what's on display, hopefully in enough detail to see
    (or with accompanying info to explain) the assorted initials and signatures. \r\n\r\nI'm
    going to look at some old drawings of Times New Roman math stuff at Monotype soon,
    though, and it will be interesting to see what notation is on those."
  created: '2007-08-30 00:59:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Is gender no longer an issue, and we should be concentrating more on the
    individual instead of grouping them?\"\r\n\r\nI think this may be coming true
    today.  There was a much more male dominated typography era when type was hot
    metal and set in an industrial environment. Today, It seems women can choose typography
    or type design as a field if they want to.  There may not be a high number of
    women type designers out there yet but the high quality work that they produce
    easily makes up for the quantity.\r\n\r\nI should clarify that I am an oldfart
    63 year-old white male (and one of those 8 guys who took part in the TypeCon Crit
    session). I have been a graphic designer for 45 years but only in the last 3 have
    I started designing type. There is no one to stop you from designing type in this
    internet world, buyers of type rarely check to see the gender of the designer
    or even care :-) \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-30 17:06:57'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: 'I''m reserving my comments on the rest of this discussion. But will say that
    my favorite type designed by a woman comes from Jill Bell. No one has mentioned
    Margo Chase either. '
  created: '2007-08-31 16:16:52'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The Typography Department at Reading and the St. Bride Library are
    each mounting exhibitions of drawings and working documents, beginning during
    the non-latin typeface design conference in September.</cite>\r\n\r\nI so wish
    I had the connections to bring that exhibition over here. "
  created: '2007-08-31 18:13:29'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Ilene Strizver was the Type Director at ITC for many years, and directed
    the development of a good portion of that library.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2007-09-01 14:31:20'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I'm doing my MA Thesis (in Literature though) and currently writing a section
    that treats a very similar topic.\r\n\r\nTo a large extent, the questions asked
    can reveal your own intentions or presuppositions, and as many have noted, the
    answers might not always be honest for myriad (hrm, bad pun given the thread content
    so far) reasons.\r\n\r\nFor me, when I hear your questions, I think of early feminist
    literary theorists.  Such critics aimed to identify female authors who were not
    in the canon and compile their works, etc, and look for the feminity within the
    works.  At least within the case of the author I'm working with, many of these
    critics lost credibility when they began to assume that her works were left out
    of the canon because she was a woman, when a more likely (given the greater wealth
    of evidence) is that she was simply too vulgar for the Victorian age, which was
    the case for many other male authors as well.\r\n\r\nProbably one of the most
    helpful approaches I've found when I'm forced to ask questions like \"Is the female
    designer hidden away?\" is to reverse the gender, or even androgynise it: \"Is
    the male designer hidden away?\" or \"Is the designer hidden away?\"\r\n\r\nAnother
    question brought up by others is why the number of males in typography is / seems
    to be greater, or perhaps why there are now more women in such programmes than
    before?  Is it because males have dropped out of the programmes, such as the trend
    seems to be in most liberal arts fields, or is it because of surge in interest
    by women, as the case would be within the sciences.  \r\n\r\nUpon rereading what
    I've written it sounds almost like I'm discouraging your research, which I should
    make clear I'm not.  If the questions haven't been asked, or there is still considerable
    disagreement as to some of the answers (as already seen in this thread), then
    the value of the research should be there.  The most important thing is \u2014
    and you already recognise it based on your first post \u2014\_is to avoid coming
    off as a feminist or worse a feminazi.  There are some critics (*coughVollendorfcough*)
    who I absolutely can't read because they're so slanted it's unbelievable that
    they're published.  I actually have the opposite problem you do, I have to avoid
    sounding like a chauvinist masculinist in my analyses.\r\n\r\nAlthough primarily
    based for literature people, given the general confluence these days of all arts
    (textual, plastic, musical, graphic, etc.), a book that might be of good assistance
    is <em> Beginning Theory: An Introduction to Literary and Cultural Theory</em>
    by Peter Barry. Google Books has a preview of it.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es
    una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB.
    (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2007-09-02 07:37:08'
- author:
    name: Nicole Dotin
    picture: 110879
  body: "> The most important thing is [...] to avoid coming off as a feminist or
    worse a feminazi.\r\n\r\nSo true, you wouldn't want her to sound as though she
    advocates women's rights on the grounds of political, social and economic equality
    to men (the definition of a feminist). That <i>would</i> be terrible."
  created: '2007-09-02 08:26:52'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "> So true, you wouldn\u2019t want her to sound as though she advocates women\u2019s
    rights...\r\n\r\nThat's up to Lindsay. Does she want to be an advocate/feminist,
    or make objective observations? "
  created: '2007-09-02 14:52:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The self fulfilling prophesy can be a tricky thing to deal with. Research
    should be as objective as possible. Let's let Lindsay have her chance at it.\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-02 15:01:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "You can be both an advocate and a good researcher, but it takes conscious
    effort. \r\n\r\nAll researchers have goals and biases. If they are good good researchers
    they are aware of their biases, and make and effort to prevent them from distorting
    their search for the facts, and  their interpretation of their findings. "
  created: '2007-09-02 15:33:27'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">> The most important thing is [...] to avoid coming off as a feminist or
    worse a feminazi.\r\n\r\nSo true, you wouldn\u2019t want her to sound as though
    she advocates women\u2019s rights on the grounds of political, social and economic
    equality to men (the definition of a feminist). That would be terrible.<\r\n\r\nThank
    you both for this gem. Matthew -- perfectly unconsciously I am sure -- says the
    most condescending thing I have heard all year; Nicole, in a gesture worthy of
    Carol, pins his ears back but in such a way that whoever wishes to mistake her
    meaning can joyfully do so. Was there ever a more exquisite illustration of the
    intractable problems that now exist between reasonably well-bred men and women? "
  created: '2007-09-02 16:41:11'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Billtroop, as Lindsay said, she does not want to point a feminist finger.
    \ It is extremely difficult to be both advocate and objective.  In the interest
    of scholarly work, sometimes it is better to err on the side of cautious objectivity,
    because, unrestrained advocacy can at times outright offend a reader.  It's incredibly
    difficult to read an article blaming men for all of the world's trouble that calls
    them all evil and holds women on a holy umblemished pedestal.  Unfortunately,
    I have to read a lot of articles like that in my research, and admittingly, it
    is hard then for me to stay objective (it's an ugly cycle).  It is far easier
    to read articles that describe clear and distinct evidence, even more so when
    evidence to the contrary is presented and synthesised well with the rest, and
    then give the reader the opportunity to fully evaluate it in light of the evidence.
    \ That is not to say that the author can not take a stand \u2014 quite the opposite,
    it is nearly impossible to publish with a \"well it could be this, or it could
    be that\" conclusion.\r\n\r\nThere is no problem with being an honest, grounded
    (post)feminist.  However, the number of self-termed feminists that truly advocate
    equal treatment, rights, and responsabilities is small indeed (for example, I've
    never heard of any women advocating requiring women to sign up for \"selective\"
    service).  Also, the views and approaches of feminists throughout the feminist
    movement, from protofeminism to early modern feminism to postfeminism, and from
    British to American to French feminism, have changed greatly.  Most readers won't
    take the time (and I fully admit to being part of this group at times) to fine
    differentiate once they notice certain traits.\r\n\r\nThat said, I'm not sure
    Lindsay needs to take an advocate's stand.  Between Chuck and Nick, it's been
    pretty well said already:\r\n<cite>when i was in design school in the early eighties,
    probably 70% of the students in graphic arts were male. by the time i graduated
    in 84, it seemed like the incoming classes were closer to 60-40. now, as a professor
    myself, i think the break is more like 60-70% female to 40-30% male.</cite> (Chuck)\r\n<cite>to
    avoid the fate of \u201Cpointing a feminist finger\u201D you will have to do your
    own research: survey all the foundries and get some statisitics. Otherwise, you\u2019re
    just going on guesswork, opinions and preconceptions. </cite> (Nick)\r\n\r\nThere
    is work that can be done, and if change has come or is already on its way, advocacy
    is not as needed.  Linsday indicates she's a student, and if she can find and
    document information in an objective manner that would be of worth to future researchers,
    then she will undoubtedly produce an article (or monograph?  Not sure how detailed
    she plans on going) that will be cited for years, which depending on her future
    aspirations, could be of immense usefullness to her personally.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2007-09-03 05:32:04'
- author:
    name: lindsay noble
    picture: 112350
  body: "thank you all for the debate so far, if anything i feel encouraged that people
    at least want to talk about the subject\r\n\r\nWhen i undertook this subject -
    i was already grimacing at the fact i was another women researching into the discrimination
    of women. Therefore i am very wary of how i approach research. running alongside
    that i know that the subject of women is always going to be more interesting to
    a woman. Part of the reason i chose this was because i am a woman, embarking on
    a career in graphic design, weighted toward typography. and i want to see what
    im getting myself into...\r\n\r\n>(or monograph? Not sure how detailed she plans
    on going) <\r\n\r\nThis is my 3rd year dissertation (which on a design course
    means 6000 words...not much room for manouvre) and therefore it might be that
    i only scratch the surface and begin an argument that can be carried forth by
    others. At present with the mixed information and experience, i may not even be
    able to conclude my research.but i shall continue.\r\n\r\nsome other points ive
    been thinking about recently are as follows:\r\n\r\n\r\n- Is the design process
    asexual? is there a female way to design and a male way. could the wiring of a
    'gendered' brain lead to a different methodology. what consequence could this
    have on the work produced? if different systems lead to the same quality and standard
    of work, does it matter?\r\n\r\n-what is the consequence of so few female role
    models? in the past obveously there were few - perhaps now there are more female
    designers but they shy away from publicity, keeping the amount of role models
    small. should women make more effort to stand out to encourage students and women
    considering the career? would this make an impact? and why would women shy away
    from publicity/media attention. is this inn there nature? or there bad experience
    of it..\r\n\r\ni have bought my ticket for the brighton ATYPI conference in september,
    and am looking foward to bringing up the subject in conversations. im hoping to
    get some more info on peoples experience. and start asking questions within institutions
    like ATYPI to see what they have to say. might even see some of you there!\r\n\r\nI
    also am hoping to talk to an old psychology lecturer of mine. By finding out some
    science about the differences between men and women, i can compare the hype and
    sterotypes. perhaps stereotypes had been created to keep ladies in their place,
    and have just lingered on. perhaps scientific results need to be openly discussed
    more to finish potential discrimination between men and women, and let everyone
    get on with making the best work they can.\r\n\r\n\r\nlindsayy\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-03 13:39:31'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Somewhat related - the original Mac manual made it clear that the Mac was
    for preppy white-guys. Was Apple following the typography stereotype or setting
    it?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.peterme.com//?p=583 \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-04 22:58:01'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "lindsay-\r\nwell, it sounds like you're  hearing some feedback on your inquiry
    and getting some leads you might explore. while i'm an absolute fiend for type
    history -- and the 'backstory' here is really intriguing -- i'm wincing myself,
    just a bit. \r\nyour own questions <em>(Is the design process asexual? is there
    a female way to design and a male way. could the wiring of a \u2019gendered\u2019
    brain lead to a different methodology...)</em> are more interesting to me than
    a lot of the other information or reflection found in this thread. \r\n"
  created: '2007-09-05 05:47:20'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "<strong> Guifa</strong>: <em> is to avoid coming off as a feminist or worse
    a feminazi. </em>\r\n\r\nA very funny line - but in typesetting there is no middle
    ground for females. When pushed into tight deadlines and very stressful situations
    you do what you can to get it done. When a man does this - it's good business.
    Yet, when a woman doing the same exact thing does this she is a *itch.\r\n\r\nTake
    it from one who had to take and give *itch lessons in Manhattan...."
  created: '2007-09-05 11:39:14'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "Jackie your comment is about as sexist as it gets. There is no sacred middle
    ground for men. Just like a woman could be considered a \"*itch,\" men are considered
    to be a \"*rick.\" Your comment makes it sound as though women are genetically
    incapable of ever acting like a \"*rick.\" I'll take a sexist direction to counter
    your claim. Men get called \"***hole\" to their face, yet women never get this
    for fear of hurting their feelings.\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-05 18:41:04'
- author:
    name: lindsay noble
    picture: 112350
  body: "i am loving that manual. thanks for the link! and it does raise an interesting
    point. I wonder if there is a comparible 2007 version. maybe with a black woman
    in it?\r\n\r\nlindsayy"
  created: '2007-09-06 11:36:32'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "Jackie, my comment may have come across as rude but it wasn't meant to. All
    I can say is that I'm genetically predisposed to being a *rick.\r\n\r\nLindsay,
    I've held back on commenting in depth on the essence of your post because I don't
    want to divulge a lot of personal information. And I have so much personal experience
    on both sides of the argument that I didn't know where to start. Here goes a long
    comment anyway. (Why can't I focus on billable hours?)\r\n\r\nBecause there are
    always exceptions to nature, this is a generalization. Women and men are very
    different and have a very different approach to the same situations. \r\n\r\nMy
    experience started with a mom who got her Masters degree in the early '70s. She
    quickly became the boss of many men. By the time I was in high school she was
    the boss of dozens of men and women. She's not a tough woman \u2014 she's a tough
    person and mentally perhaps the strongest person I've ever known.\r\n\r\nThen
    I met my wife of 19 years. Saying she is a genius and the smartest person I've
    ever met is an understatement. It took me seven wonderful years of work, party
    and school to get a BFA. My wife graduated Summa Cum Laude with two science degrees
    in four years. She went on to absolutely ace her post-graduate degree. When it
    came time to put career paths on the shelf to focus on our children, we both did.\r\n\r\nMy
    wife convinced me that the assumed differences between men and women were bogus.
    Then we had twin girls. We decided that to avoid having them endure sexist discrimination
    we would give them gender neutral names. We did this and consciously avoided giving
    them any gender specific directions from the day they were born. There would be
    no pink stuff, no Barbie dolls, no fluffy girly things. We would let them gravitate
    toward their own natural path. \r\n\r\nThey are now ten years old. And those past
    ten years have been very educational about the true nature of girls and boys.
    It started soon. It became overt in the first days of kindergarten when they weren't
    really talking much, just slobbering and drooling on everything. One family didn't
    want their boy child to have gun toys. The first thing the boy did at kindergarten
    was assemble Legos into a gun and start shooting the other kids. That's just one
    example of hundreds. With deliberate effort by the adults to not shoe them into
    predisposed gender paths, they did it anyway. \r\n\r\nSo we now have one girl
    that will only wear skirts and prefers pink to any other color on the planet.
    And we know, accept and love the fact that girls and boys have wonderful differences
    \u2014 the yin for the yang. Stereotyping and systemic discrimination still occur,
    and will probably always occur, in both directions. But there are real and specific
    reasons men go into orthopedic surgery and women go into pediatrics. And in typography
    women and men will typically have different sensitivities to the same situations
    \u2014 of course that's a generalization though. I hope you keep plugging at documenting
    a worthy topic. "
  created: '2007-09-06 16:23:45'
- author:
    name: lindsay noble
    picture: 112350
  body: "thank you for your post blue streak. I am incredibly interested in the forming
    of gender (unfortunetly the word count of my dissertation wont allow me to go
    into more depth on the subject). \r\n\r\n I read a recent article on house work,
    and the statistics still show that most chores around the house are done by women,
    even if both partners are in full time employment. This wasnt because cleaning
    and cooking were deemed as 'womens work' but more that women re-affirmed their
    femininity and therefore their own identity with such activity.\r\n\r\nto feel
    'whole' lets say, people re-affirm their identity (including gender identity),
    and perceptions of what a woman is and should be largely come from the society
    we are brought up in. It seems to me that even if parents refrained from girl
    colours or girl toys, messages from other kids at school, tv, adult role models,
    are going to completely envelope a 'neutral' child.\r\n\r\nThat saying, psychological
    research into the differences between genders have suggested only a handful of
    actual differences, and insignificant ones at that. There is more indicative research
    to show that such a stereotype that men are better at driving - because they have
    better spacial awareness skills -  is due to boys being encouraged to play with
    toy cars and building blocks - developing those spacial awareness skills whilst
    girls brush the hair of their dolls.\r\n\r\nIve spurted a lot there - and skated
    over detail. back to work\r\n\r\n\r\nLindsayy"
  created: '2007-09-06 17:27:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>They are now ten years old.</em>\r\n\r\nI wouldn't write off your experiment
    just yet."
  created: '2007-09-06 19:19:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">insignificant ones at that\r\n\r\nI seriously doubt that. My children are
    32, 30, and 25. --Boy, Girl, Girl. \r\n\r\nI have heard many parents comment on
    their surprise at how much of the child's personality is there from the beginning,
    and how the gender differences are also there and unmistakable. Neither of these
    facts is politically correct, but both are facts. \r\n\r\nMy impression is that
    differences between men's and women's ways of thinking are perhaps not so many,
    and in many areas where they are different, the differences may be profound but
    are subtle and hard to pin down. In some areas, such as the qualities they look
    for in a mate, the differences are more obvious. Also the differences are partly
    a matter of averages, similar to secondary physical differences such as height.
    Many women are taller than many men, but on average women are shorter than men.\r\n\r\nThat
    being said, I personally don't think the innate differences have much to do with
    type design. There are excellent women type designers, and I expect there will
    be more in the future. "
  created: '2007-09-06 20:09:46'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "<cite>That saying, psychological research into the differences between genders
    have suggested only a handful of actual differences, and insignificant ones at
    that</cite>\r\n\r\nAn extremely important point.  Part of the controversy of gender-innate-differences
    research comes in not so much the studies themselves, but the analysis thereof
    (generally by pop-science writers) who for example, might find that girls are
    on average scoring 10% higher on a Spanish exam, and interpreting it to mean that
    girls are that much smarter than men.  Look at the results though and it might
    be that the guys scored 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, and 90, and the girls got 40,
    50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100.  The overlap of scores is so high that it makes the difference
    interesting, certainly, but not something to base, say, Spanish pedagogy techniques
    off of.  (the study I'm thinking of in particular relates to hearing differences,
    but represents somewhat standard results)\r\n\r\nMark Liberman has compiled a
    large number of posts on The Language Log (a blog run by some of the top linguists
    in the US and abroad) on the topic, which may be of some use, http://itre.cis.upenn.edu/~myl/languagelog/archives/003586.html\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2007-09-06 20:23:40'
- author:
    name: lindsay noble
    picture: 112350
  body: "Sorry to clear that up i meant a handful of actual physiological differnces.
    before the hormones kick in. I had a very interesting interview with a psychology
    professor today, when ive got time will post more\r\n\r\nlindsayy"
  created: '2007-09-07 18:13:44'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "<strong>Blue Streak </strong>\r\n<em> Jackie, my comment may have come across
    as rude but it wasn\u2019t meant to. All I can say is that I\u2019m genetically
    predisposed to being a *rick. </em>\r\n\r\nBlue Streak,\r\n\r\nAll I can say is
    you are quite young, and I doubt you spent any time in any typeshop in New York
    City. On the other hand - not only did I -- but I owned one. Typesetting was a
    man's world. Ask anyone who was there. When I was in typsetting - there were less
    than 10 women in the city involved in typesetting.\r\n\r\nMy shop was an Alphatype
    shop - so I will just speak from experience. Something I believe your wife could
    understand. I had purchased my updated Alphatype equipment -- ah finally, we could
    make obliques out of Novarese upper case. Guess what - it broke down. I used the
    prescribed paper they -- it was Agfa paper. Well, the new equipment drew half
    a letter than the other half of the letter into the photopaper -- and it never
    matched up. I was losing business left and right - or worse, paying MKP top dollar
    just to run out our repro for us. They told me I could return the machine and
    buy a bigger machine from them. I stood my ground and hired a lawyer to talk to
    them. After months, they took back the machine and gave me the larger, though
    used, machine so I could do the work inside our shop again. \r\n\r\nIt was Alphatype
    who told me that as a woman in business I was a *itch - however, they admitted
    that ANY ALPHATYPE SHOP in the same position with a man at the helm - would just
    be doing business.\r\n\r\nBlue - I was there. You weren't. The End."
  created: '2007-09-09 23:27:02'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Stanley Morison is more often named as the person responsible for Times Roman
    than Victor Lardent. So the people who took Victor Lardent's drawings and adapted
    them to different point sizes, and added more characters, would be even less likely
    to get credit even if they had been men.\r\n\r\nAnd a male type designer who was
    self-effacing and who was uncomplaining in taking creative direction from his
    superiors even when it went against his artistic sensibilities... would please
    his superiors no end, and they wouldn't bother to wonder if he had some input
    on these matters.\r\n\r\nThis is not an attempt to say that either the women in
    Monotype's drawing rooms or Carol Twombly did not suffer discrimination based
    on their sex; manifestly, they did. But what is being discussed above in their
    cases and others is clearly not due to sex discrimination in an isolated, pure
    form: instead, it's a compound of gender and class and economic issues."
  created: '2014-03-13 15:10:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "One great thing about type design is that today you can hang up your shingle
    and people will licence your fonts if they like them, irrespective of who you
    are.\r\n"
  created: '2014-03-13 18:17:55'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "I have read only half of the responses in this thread so I don't know to
    which extent this is even applicable to the current discussion, but I want to
    communicate a theory I have on the gender imbalance in type. I should first say
    that I'm basing this theory on experience and indirect research and not direct
    research on gender imbalance  but there might be some truth to it. I personally
    think the practice of type design is a rather \"authistic\" profession. That is
    to say, it requires a tremendous passion for something very specific and you need
    to be very patient and don't mind repetitive work. First I should say that autism
    is a spectrum everyone is on; it's a misconception that some people \"have it\"
    and others don't. Secondly, it seems that 1.8% of men develop autism spectrum
    disorders while it's only 0.2% in case of women. It could be that the characteristics
    we base the validation process on are male, thus distorting the outcome. A comparable
    example of this is a myocardial infarction; you think a main characteristic is
    chest pain and your left arm numbing down, but the characteristics in women are
    very different and as such in many cases when a woman has a myocardial infarction
    it's not recognized as such and is ascribed to stress or a flu or something like
    that. I personally doubt the results are distorted in the case of research on
    autism, but one should still consider it. Many think the difference can be ascribed
    to physical differences between genders in the brain, which does seem to be the
    case. Generally women are more empathic and have a higher social intelligence.
    In practice this higher social intelligence doesn't necessarily lead to better
    communication though because the woman thinks more emotionally. The man conversely
    tends to think less emotional and more rational (which is not to say it's logical;
    rationality is subjective here) but also loses control over rationality sooner
    and becomes aggressive. Now, these are obviously generalizations as there are
    obviously plenty of psychopathic women and empathic, highly sensitive men. However,
    I think when talking about equality we simply tend to ignore physical differences.
    I think people are just more likely to be interested in specific things depending
    on their gender and the rules society ascribes to that gender.\r\n\r\nSo far many
    professions have been male-dominated because that was the structure of our society,
    in which men go to work and women stay at home to look after the children. We're
    now slowly progressing towards a society where there is true equality and professions
    like type design are being practised more by women, but I think the closer we
    get to that kind of society, the more valuable the physical differences in the
    brain becomes. Because, right now we would probably ascribe the gender imbalance
    to cultural constructs. In an ideal society where man and woman are equal and
    have equal rights, the only difference left is the physical one (partially influenced
    by hormones). When we live in such a society we have much more insight into the
    statistics and we can then say to which extent gender has any impact on what you're
    going to like and dislike and what profession you will practice. I think this
    is why there are getting more women into type design.\r\n\r\nI read in this thread
    that the females in design are often art directors and CEOs. Could this be to
    physical differences between genders as well? I come back to the male being more
    autistic and the woman being more empathic. It doesn't seem that strange that
    women would then be art directors and CEOs because of their social intelligence,
    while the man is more likely to be a designer or programmer because he can handle
    repetitive tasks better. I'm currently studying the art academy and it's dominated
    by women. I think this is because there is a lot of creativity involved. Before
    this I studied multi-media design at a graphics school, which was a lot more technical
    and less about concepts. That education was dominated by men. My typography teacher
    is a woman and she draws letters, while I design them. She's more involved with
    creativity while I'm more involved with consistency. She has a varied job while
    my job is rather repetitive. I know these are anecdotes and not evidence, but
    from experience everything I just said falls into place. If my theory is incorrect
    then these differences should be ascribed to our social/cultural construct, but
    one shouldn't forget that this cultural construct is largely based on differences
    in gender. Not necessarily correct ones, as we're progressing towards a society
    with actual gender equality (which works both ways; it's not at all just to improve
    the life of women as men are constricted in other ways), but I think the differences
    between genders are a big factor as well and shouldn't be ignored. We shouldn't
    think that men and women are actually the same.\r\n\r\n<cite>Lindsay Noble: I
    read a recent article on house work, and the statistics still show that most chores
    around the house are done by women, even if both partners are in full time employment.
    This wasnt because cleaning and cooking were deemed as 'womens work' but more
    that women re-affirmed their femininity and therefore their own identity with
    such activity.\r\n\r\nTo feel 'whole' lets say, people re-affirm their identity
    (including gender identity), and perceptions of what a woman is and should be
    largely come from the society we are brought up in.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is actually
    very important and it's one of the reasons why changes in our construct of society
    happen so slowly. The philosophy and science might have progressed, but it takes
    a while before we become comfortable with that progress. For example, it probably
    took a while before it was deemed acceptable for women to wear pants. It will
    take a lot longer for men to wear dresses, if ever. There is no gender equality
    yet, but people tend to become more and more free in what they can do and are
    comfortable in doing."
  created: '2014-03-16 16:11:11'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I will agree with Martin insofar as type design does attract people with
    a certain degree of, well fanatical obsession with fine detail. The people who
    do really well at designing at least many kinds of typefaces probably rate on
    the autism spectrum considerably more often than the general public.\r\n\r\nThat
    said, there is plenty of evidence of historical sexism in the industry, not the
    least of which is the huge surge of women in type design over the past decade
    or so. Yay!\r\n\r\nRhetorical question time\r\n\r\nFiona Ross not being 10 x better
    known is due to:\r\n(a) sexism\r\n(b) Latin-centricity\r\n(c) being a nameless
    cog in a corporate office\r\n(d) all of the above"
  created: '2014-03-17 01:11:50'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I'd go for (b) and then (c) as the main reasons.\r\n\r\nIncidentally, when
    searching for information about her, I found a page on the Adobe site. It credited
    her for designing \"the phonetic keyboard for Indian scripts\" which made desktop
    publishing in Indic scripts possible.\r\n\r\nA web search only turned up, as a
    phonetic keyboard for Indic scripts, something called the INSCRIPT keyboard, which
    was designed by the Indian government. Other keyboards I came across included
    the Remington typewriter keyboard. But I didn't see anything credited to Adobe
    - or Linotype or Monotype, for that matter.\r\n\r\nAh: Linotype, 1978 - from [[http://stbride.org/friends/conference/twentiethcenturygraphiccommunication/NonLatin.html|here]].
    But I see she's also credited with Yakout - and the invention of Simplified Arabic.\r\n\r\nNot
    that it's really a bad thing to make it possible for people to communicate in
    their own language with technology that is limited, though that is sometimes forgotten
    when we criticize the persistence of expedients into the present when they are
    no longer needed. Of course, one of her other accomplishments was allowing the
    typesetting of Nastal'iq.\r\n\r\nAh: whatever the keyboard layout may have been,
    what she invented was the first keyboard that didn't require one to type in glyphs
    - the way a Remington typewriter keyboard naturally did - but instead did all
    that fancy stuff we today associate with Unicode."
  created: '2014-03-18 00:43:36'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Re-reading the original post:\r\n\r\nLindsay, it might be useful to email
    some women in type design, rather than asking them to reply in a public forum.
    As with any sensitive question, you might get some more honest and open responses
    in private.\r\n\r\nYou should definitely contact Sibylle Hagmann, who has written
    and presented on this topic. See the abstract of her paper at http://bg.biograficas.com/secciones/docs_complementarios/Non_existing_design.doc"
  created: '2014-03-18 04:04:09'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@BlueStreak:\r\nYour experience does not necessarily prove the existence
    of innate biological differences between girls and boys. After all, as their parents,
    you do not supply their total environment. They live in a world, and from their
    peers they are learning about what they need to do in order to survive most effectively.\r\n\r\nThat
    being said, no one should be surprised that innate biological differences in personality
    might exist. If you visit a dairy farm, you will be advised to take precautions
    around the bulls that you do not need to take around the cows. Yet cattle aren't
    people, and so they're not cultural beings, exposed to sexism from newspapers,
    radio, or television - or from playing video games. That doesn't mean their personality
    development doesn't involve their <em>environment</em>, but unlike culture, which
    is artificial, it's still a natural equilibrium between genes and the environment
    that is involved.\r\n\r\nCurrent knowledge indicates that innate sex differences
    in humans are less extreme than among herd animals like deer or cattle; instead,
    wolves are closest to humans on this particular continuum, as, like wolves, but
    unlike chimpanzees (more differentiated) or bonobos (less differentiated), but
    like wolves, we hunt in packs.\r\n\r\nThat there are differences, though, doesn't
    excuse inequality. In the past, women were barred from nearly all the professions,
    and confined to the home and childrearing, basically by decree. What it does mean,
    though, is that if discrimination against women is ever completely eliminated,
    more women than men will still stay home and take care of the children, and so
    in that future age, we shouldn't panic and assume there is still some discrimination
    we haven't found."
  created: '2014-03-18 11:50:40'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: Since typesetting businesses have been mentioned, I'll mention that where
    I work (in central Ohio) we used to have a typesetting business run by a woman,
    and all her employees were also women. The owner never mentioned to me any problems
    related to gender, and it was a successful business until desktop publishing put
    most of the local typesetters out of business.
  created: '2014-03-19 04:50:52'
date: '2007-08-24 11:23:37'
title: women and typography

---
