---
author:
  name: acm
body: "Hello,\r\n\r\nI'm planning to work on my website design and I'm going to use
  a dynamic text replacement technique that will automatically change the headlines
  with an image. That way I'm able to use other fonts than the regular Arial, Verdana,
  Georgia, Courier and Times New Roman and, so far, I'm going for the Myriad Pro available
  in Mac OS X.\r\n\r\nHowever, there's a slight problem: Romanian, the language I
  use on my website, has some characters not available in the default Myriad Pro like
  \u015E and \u0162 and I thought I could try and add those by hand.\r\n\r\nAm I allowed
  to do that? And am I allowed to upload a font from the operating system to the server
  so I can use it to generate images with it?\r\n\r\nThank you."
comments:
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "The End User License Agreement for most commercial fonts prohibits any modification
    or reverse engineering of the font data, so opening the font up in an editing
    program and adding characters is a no-go.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-08-25 12:48:39'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Doesn't Adobe's EULA allow for modification for personal use, though? Wouldn't
    this fall under that? I am not a lawyer\u2026"
  created: '2007-08-25 13:02:17'
- author:
    name: acm
  body: "Here's the thing: it's Apple's Myriad Pro that has only some slight differences
    from the Adobe Myriad Pro and I'm guessing there are different EULAs. I can't
    find Apple's font EULA on the web so I don't really know what I can and can't
    do. \r\n\r\nThanks for your input."
  created: '2007-08-25 13:15:19'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "I found these characters in Adobe Myriad Pro version 002.000. According to
    <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Romanian_alphabet\">this link</a> of Wikipedia,
    those are the characters you are looking for.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/romanian_5513.gif]"
  created: '2007-08-25 14:18:57'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Note: The glyphs  in unicode posisions U+021A and U+021B in Myriad Pro 002.000
    are the same as those of Tcommaaccent and tcommaaccent above.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-25 14:39:04'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>it\u2019s Apple\u2019s Myriad Pro</em>\r\n\r\nHuh!? How did you get
    this font? Are you an Apple employee?\r\nLast time I checked it was not being
    bundled with the OS...\r\nhttp://docs.info.apple.com/article.html?artnum=25710\r\nhttp://docs.info.apple.com/article.html?artnum=301332\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_fonts_in_Mac_OS_X"
  created: '2007-08-25 21:27:44'
- author:
    name: acm
  body: "Um, I might have mixed things up. I have 10 otf files with MyriadPro in their
    name in /Library/Fonts. I thought it was Apple's Myriad Pro, but now I notice
    that there's a copy of Photoshop, Illustrator and InDesign installed. It's a second-hand
    MacBook so fonts might have been installed with those applications.\r\n\r\nAs
    you might have noticed, I'm really, really new in typography. I've just learned
    the difference between serif and sans-serif :)"
  created: '2007-08-25 22:05:23'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>I have 10 otf files with MyriadPro in their name in /Library/Fonts</em>\r\n\r\nOpen
    FontBook and tell us the version of these fonts. (Go to Preview->Show Font Info,
    or press Apple+I)\r\n\r\n> <em>I notice that there\u2019s a copy of Photoshop,
    Illustrator and InDesign installed</em>\r\n\r\nWhich versions?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-25 22:50:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Apple Myriad is the branding font they use internally, right? The only version
    of Myriad that Apple ever claimed to have shipped would have been the 3rd generation
    (first color) iPod UI font, but they''ve since removed references to that from
    their site. '
  created: '2007-08-26 01:03:02'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "I googled and could fairly rapidly find this\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/amyriadofdowloads_3538.gif]\r\nand
    the links are not dangling."
  created: '2007-08-26 03:17:37'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: My guess is that there can't be much difference between these and the Adobe
    versions, otherwise the Apple lawyers would have been on this, like a...
  created: '2007-08-26 05:24:15'
- author:
    name: acm
  body: "Here's what I got from FontBook for MyriadPro-Bold:\r\n\r\nPostScript name\tMyriadPro-Bold\r\n\tFull
    name\tMyriadPro-Bold\r\n\tFamily\tMyriad Pro\r\n\tStyle\tBold\r\n\tKind\tOpenType
    PostScript\r\n\tLanguage\tEnglish, French, German, Spanish, Italian, Dutch, Swedish,
    Danish, Finnish, Portuguese\r\n\tVersion\tVersion 2.007;PS 002.000;Core 1.0.38;makeotf.lib1.7.9032\r\n\tLocation\t/Library/Fonts/MyriadPro-Bold.otf\r\n\tUnique
    name\t2.007;ADBE;MyriadPro-Bold\r\n\tDesigner\tRobert Slimbach and Carol Twombly\r\n\tCopyright\t\xA9
    2000, 2004 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. U.S. Patent D454,582.\r\n\tTrademark\tMyriad
    is either a registered trademark or a trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated
    in the United States and/or other countries.\r\n\tEnabled\tYes\r\n\tDuplicate\tNo\r\n\r\nI
    guess it's the Adobe Myriad Pro, not Apple Myriad.\r\n\r\nFrom what I've read,
    Apple's Myriad has \"incorporates minor spacing and weight differences from the
    standard varieties, and includes Apple-specific characters such as the company
    logo\" (from the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Typography_of_Apple_Inc.|Wikipedia
    article]]) and may not be as cross-platform as the Adobe version.\r\n\r\nI'm sorry
    for the mix-up :)"
  created: '2007-08-26 08:53:25'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "> <em> My guess is that there can\u2019t be much difference between these
    and the Adobe versions</em>\r\n\r\nWell, here is a grab taken from the output
    of ADFKO's \"tx -pdf\" command applied on a otf reencoded version of the said
    ttf font.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/myapple_5385.gif]"
  created: '2007-08-26 14:01:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: U+2044 appears to be the stick the lawyers will beat you with if you post
    the font. ;-)
  created: '2007-08-26 16:17:49'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>Romanian, the language I use on my website, has some characters not
    available in the default Myriad Pro like \u015E and \u0162</em>\r\n> <em>Full
    name\tMyriadPro-Bold\r\nVersion\tVersion 2.007;PS 002.000;Core 1.0.38;makeotf.lib1.7.9032\r\n</em>\r\n\r\nAndrei,
    what makes you think that the version you say you have does not contain the characters
    needed for Romanian?\r\nBTW, v2.007 is the latest shipping version of Myriad Pro."
  created: '2007-08-27 01:37:29'
- author:
    name: acm
  body: Miguel, forgive my ignorance, but I used a Romanian keylayout for the Mac
    and when I pressed those letters in, let's say Pages, I got a different font.
    I'm guessing the software automatically changes the font so it will still print
    that letter.
  created: '2007-08-27 11:42:34'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "On my Mac, here is what the Romanian keyboard looks like:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/romaniankeyboard_4343.gif]\r\nI
    thus get the \u0218 just under the escape and \u021A under \xC2 at the left of
    the CR. How did you type \u0218 and \u021A in your message above? Where is \"Pages\"
    on your keyboard? If they are the up and down arrow, that's not the right choice!
    [edit] for typing your characters."
  created: '2007-08-27 13:21:53'
- author:
    name: acm
  body: "Pages is an Apple application that is part of the iWork suite :)\r\n\r\nRomanian
    layouts have been a major problem in the last few years. Pre-Windows Vista keyboards
    have S and T with a cedilla, not a comma underneath so most applications and documents
    use the non-stardard Microsoft way. And most Windows fonts, like Arial, Verdana
    and Times New Roman, don't have the T and S with a cedilla (Microsoft issued an
    update a couple of months ago, but you have to search for it, it's not in the
    mainstream Windows Update) and if you write a web page with those letters or the
    equivalent HTML entities Internet Explorer will display empty squares instead
    and Firefox will try to \"build\" the letters.\r\n\r\nIt seems that the letters
    T and S with cedilla are not part of Myriad Pro (or at least they won't show up
    as regular Myriad Pro letters).\r\n\r\nThanks for helping me clear things out."
  created: '2007-08-27 15:01:56'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Now everything is clear. Here is s cedilla, is it not (we have c cedilla
    in French).\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/scedilla_4806.gif]\r\nand I
    don't see either a correct Tcedilla or tcedilla; all I see is a T and a t with
    a comma underneath. No font in my system seems to have a Tcedilla or a tcedilla.
    [edit] By the way, the above Scedilla and scedilla are  from Myriad."
  created: '2007-08-27 15:18:20'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: 'Correction: I found many other fonts with a correct Tcedilla ant tcedilla,
    but I don''t get them in my Myriad Pro '
  created: '2007-08-27 15:27:30'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: What is even more mysterious to me is that the S and s with a comma underneath
    do not even show in this <a href="http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/singles/monotype/myriad_pro_regular/?acs=1&acs_p=2"><strong>Character
    map</strong></a> on FontShop.
  created: '2007-08-27 15:51:17'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "With a SIL <a href=\"http://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?site_id=nrsi&id=ukelele\">Ukelele</a>
    modified romanian keyboard (not the one coming with the mac), I could type directly
    in Excel the following:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cedillas_5974.gif]\r\nThat
    does not solve your problem with Myriad but Ukelele is a useful tool. The keyboard
    I used is <a href=\"http://www.iro.umontreal.ca/~boyer/typophile/romanian.tgz\">here</a>;
    you put it in your library/Keyboard Layouts, log out and log in again."
  created: '2007-08-27 17:51:11'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "The 'true' Romanian forms for these characters were a recent addition to
    Unicode... \r\n\r\nU+0218    \u0218    LATIN CAPITAL LETTER S WITH COMMA BELOW\r\nU+0219
    \   \u0219    LATIN SMALL LETTER S WITH COMMA BELOW\r\nU+021a    \u021A    LATIN
    CAPITAL LETTER T WITH COMMA BELOW\r\nU+021b    \u021B    LATIN SMALL LETTER T
    WITH COMMA BELOW\r\n\r\nSo older fonts, older keyboard layouts and older apps
    may only support or expect the legacy code-points, that were 'shared' (uneasily)
    with Turkish - +015e, U+015f, U+0162, U+0163 \r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2007-08-27 18:07:32'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "The necessary letters are in the fonts.\r\n\r\nI strongly suspect that \"acm\"
    is running into a Mac OS issue wherein they are using glyph names to determine
    encoding, instead of using the encoding built into the font, and then on top of
    that they may not have always recognized the glyph names as defined in Adobe's
    glyph naming standards, in favor of their own schemes. The latter problem is likely
    better in newer versions of Mac OS, even if the former is not.\r\n\r\nWhat version
    of OS X are you running, acm?\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-08-27 18:28:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Off topic a bit, but does the Acrobat Reader end-license also grant font
    modification rights like the stand-alone Adobe font EULA does (or at least like
    the FAQ does) to cover modification of the fonts it supplies? \r\n\r\nIf so I
    wonder if Myriad might become an alternative to Bitstream Vera / dejavu, in that
    modified versions may be freely shared between anyone who has a validly licensed
    Acrobat Reader on their desktop or device?\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-27 18:43:50'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Thomas, \r\n\r\nI must confess that I would like to have a look at the pdf
    file produced by the command\r\n <code>    tx -pdf -1 MyriadPro-Regular.otf >
    Myriad.pdf</code>\r\n on the last version of the font.\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n\r\n[edit]
    The first three pages would be enough."
  created: '2007-08-27 18:56:05'
- author:
    name: acm
  body: "Thomas, I'm not sure if I really understood the problem, but the About This
    Mac windows is telling me I have Mac OS X version 10.4.10. As far as I know I
    have the entire system up to date. Might be a problem with the keyboard and as
    soon I'll have the time I'll look into Ukelele and try to fix things.\r\n\r\nIt's
    great to know that I don't have to modify a font because, honestly, I was pretty
    sure I would do a lousy job. \r\n\r\nI had no idea that the world of typography
    was so complex :) Fonts, glyphs, UTF numbers... I really have to buy those three
    books recommended on the Typowiki page."
  created: '2007-08-27 19:54:27'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Michael:\r\nI appreciate your efforts but hold on a second as you're creating
    more confusion than helping to solve Andrei's problem. Thanks.\r\n\r\nAndrei:\r\nOne
    thing is for sure, the characters you need are in the fonts you have \u2014 as
    Thomas said \u2014, so there's no need to modify them.\r\n\r\nNow, the problem
    you're having is most likely related with Mac OS X not reading the fonts' 'cmap'
    table and relying on the glyphs' names instead. I'm also running OS X v10.4.10.
    I don't use Pages but I did a test with TextEdit and I had no problems with the
    said characters (\u0218 \u0219 \u021A \u021B). Can you please confirm this in
    your end?\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, I tested \u2014 still in TextEdit v1.4 (220)
    \u2014 a few other \"related\" characters (\u015E \u015F \u0162 \u0163) and some
    of them \u2014 highlighted in red \u2014 were replaced by Lucida Grande, despite
    Myriad Pro v2.007 containing them. I reckon this is a bug in Mac OS X or TextEdit,
    not in the font.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MyriadProv2007_MacOSX_3599.png]"
  created: '2007-08-27 21:38:53'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "BTW, Arno Pro displays correctly, just because the glyphnames happen to be
    in uniXXXX form.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Arno_Tcommaaccent_4289.png]"
  created: '2007-08-28 01:09:28'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "In their link <a href=\"http://www.unicode.org/standard/standard.html\"><strong>About
    the Unicode Standard</strong></a>, the <a href=\"http://www.unicode.org/\"><strong>Unicode
    consortium</strong></a> states that the entire content of the Unicode Standard
    including the Character Code Charts is available online. Here are their online
    <a href=\"http://www.unicode.org/charts/\"><strong>Unicode Character Code Charts</strong></a>
    and here is the <a href=\"http://www.unicode.org/charts/PDF/U0100.pdf\"><strong>Latin
    Extended-A</strong></a> chart. And here is a grab of the glyphs for U+0162 and
    U+0163 from the Latin-Extended-A chart provided by the Consortium:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fromlatina_4892.gif]"
  created: '2007-08-29 04:44:19'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Of course, and as pointed out by Thomas, the real issue here is a naming
    issue. In the Myriad Pro Regular font that I bought directly from Adobe on Aug
    27, the unicode characters U+0162 and U+0163 (look above) are named <code>Tcommaaccent</code>
    and <code>tcommaaccent</code>; if they are renamed <code>Tcedilla</code> and <code>tcedilla</code>
    respectively, then textedit and Word gain access to those Myriad Pro characters
    and insert them correctly in your file. It no longer seems those characters are
    undefined in Myriad Pro. I checked.\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-29 15:19:58'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "The same Latin-Extended-A chart also points out that \"a glyph variant with
    comma below is preferred for Romanian\":\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/0162_0163_6174.png]\r\n\r\nAnd
    that is also the opinion of two esteemed expert residents:\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/2764#comment-22015\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/3970#comment-29637\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-29 20:15:02'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Thomas also points out that \"they may not have always recognized the glyph
    names as defined in Adobe\u2019s glyph naming standards\", which seems to be true
    given the fact that the Adobe Glyph List For New Fonts v1.6 associates the name
    Tcommaaccent to codepoint 0162, and tcommaaccent to codepoint 0163:\r\nhttp://partners.adobe.com/public/developer/en/opentype/aglfn13.txt\r\n\r\nIt's
    also worth mentioning that the history of these two characters has been eventful,
    judging by the notes on that same file:\r\n\r\n#   1.1  [17 April 2003]  Renamed
    [Tt]cedilla back to [Tt]commaaccent:\r\n#\r\n#   1.0  [31 Jan 2003]  Original
    version. Derived from the AGLv1.2 by:\r\n#\t-  removing the PUA area codes\r\n#\t-
    removing duplicate Unicode mappings, and \r\n#\t- renaming tcommaaccent to tcedilla
    and Tcommaaccent to Tcedilla \r\n"
  created: '2007-08-29 20:16:32'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Miguel\r\n<p>\r\nHere is how I read the notes from the Standard that you
    displayed above concerning U+0162 and U+0163. A first point says that U+0163 is
    used in Romanian, for Semitic transliterations and there is a ... that usually
    suggests other uses. The next point insists that the character is used in Romanian
    data, and will thus stay in archives even if a new glyph is now preferred. The
    third point states explicitly that for Romanian, the new preferred glyph, a t
    with comma below, is to be found at U+021B.\r\n<p>\r\nGreat! Romanian was granted
    \ four new characters, namely U+0218, U+0219, U+021A and U+021B as mentioned above
    by sii. I don't see how this should imply that people in Semitic studies (and
    others) should now be deprived from their glyphs in U+0162 and U+0163. \r\n<p>\r\nIf
    \ there is any doubt left, there is a last line; it is in <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Backus-Naur_form\"><strong>Backus
    Naur form</strong></a> (BNF), commonly used in Computer Sciences (in particular
    in the syntax of programming languages) and it leaves no ambiguity;  it defines
    the glyph U+0163 as a composed glyph; a glyph composed of those in  U+0074 and
    U+0327; U+0074 is just a \"t\"; now what is U+0327? It is so small on the screen
    that we may have doubts. So we just go to the page <a href=\"http://www.unicode.org/charts/\"><strong>The
    Unicode Character Code Charts By Script</strong></a> and enter \"0327\" in the
    slot for \"Look up by character code\" and then click \"go\". The most current
    chart is said to be <a href=\"http://www.unicode.org/charts/PDF/U0300.pdf\"><strong>here</strong></a>.
    We look and we find this nice glyph:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/u0327_5787.gif]\r\nand
    in the notes under, we learn how the corresponding character is to be named: \"combining
    cedilla\"\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cedilla_4865.gif]\r\nSo U+0163
    is defined in BNF as a \"t\" with a \"combining cedilla\" under. The people in
    Semitic studies are safe (and maybe others as well), they may keep their  \"tcedilla\"
    glyph in U+0163!  \r\n<p>\r\nMichel\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-29 21:48:19'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "By the way, U+0162 was also defined unambiguously as the glyph in U+0054
    composed with the glyph in U+0327, and the last chart containing U+0327 leaves
    no room for interpretation.\r\n\r\n[edit] My interpretation may be biased by the
    fact that I have been Faculty in a Computer Science department for now over 20
    years and for me a BNF definition prevails over any comment.\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2007-08-29 22:16:34'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "<em>[edit] My interpretation may be biased by the fact that I have been Faculty
    in a Computer Science department for now over 20 years and for me a BNF definition
    prevails over any comment.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, I guess that is where we differ.
    I trust the human understanding about the human language more than the computer
    understanding about the human language. \r\n\r\nBesides, any Backus-Naur form
    i.e. a context-free grammar that describes a formal language has been written
    by someone. Therefore, there's no difference between it and \"any comment\". \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-29 22:56:57'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "There are several issues that come together here: \r\n\r\n1. Mac OS X ignores
    the glyph-to-Unicode mapping provided in the \"cmap\" table of OpenType PS (CFF/.otf)
    fonts, while it uses it for OpenType TT (.ttf) fonts. For OpenType PS fonts, Mac
    OS X uses the glyph-to-glyphname mapping provided in the font and then maps the
    glyphnames to Unicodes itself. \r\n\r\n2. Unfortunately, Mac OS X does not recognize
    the \"*commaaccent\" glyphnames that are defined by Adobe for Romanian and Baltic
    languages (such as Tcommaaccent, Rcommaaccent, Kcommaaccent, Ncommaaccent) but
    instead only recognizes the \"*cedilla\" names (Tcedilla, Rcedilla, Kcedilla,
    Ncedilla) or the \"uni****\" names (uni0162, uni0156, uni0136, uni0145). This
    means that Mac OS X will fail to recognize the glyphs Tcommaaccent, Rcommaaccent,
    Kcommaaccent, Ncommaaccent and map them to their respective Unicodes.  \r\n\r\n3.
    On top of that, there is another confusion. Originally, the Unicode consortium
    defines the codepoints U+015E, U+015F, U+0162, U+0163 as suitable for both Turkish
    and Romanian, and defined them as containing the cedilla accent. Turkish indeed
    uses cedilla in U+015E, U+015F but does not make any use of U+0162, U+0163. But
    the Romanian normalization delegation raised an objection towards those mappings
    because in the Romanian typographic tradition, glyphs with a commaaccent are preferred.
    So the Unicode consortium added the mappings U+0218, U+0219, U+021A, U+021B, and
    defined them as containing a commaaccent. \r\n\r\n4. Unfortunately, many of the
    Romanian locale definitions used in operating systems still use the \"old\" mappings
    rather than the \"new\" mappings. So it is common practice that Romanian texts
    contain U+015E, U+015F, U+0162, U+0163 rather than U+0218, U+0219, U+021A, U+021B.
    \r\n\r\n5. Nonetheless, the preference that the Romanian characters should be
    rendered using a commaaccent still applies. Since a \"T/t with cedilla\" does
    not seem to be used in any living language, many type designers have decided to
    draw U+0162, U+0163 as a \"T/t with commaaccent\". So the glyphs for U+0162, U+0163
    and for U+021A, U+021B are identical in many fonts, and that's how it should be.
    \r\n\r\n6. Since the U+015E, U+015F are used as \"S/s with cedilla\" in Turkish
    but are also used in \"old\" locales for Romanian, many OpenType fonts now contain
    a \"locl\" glyph substitution that replaces the glyphs Scedilla (U+015E), scedilla
    (U+015F) with the glyphs uni0218, uni0219 in Romanian context. This is not a very
    elegant solution but seems a pragmatic one. \r\n\r\nTo resolve the problem, Apple
    should do two things: \r\n\r\na) change the Romanian locale/keyboard layout definition
    so that it no longer uses the U+015E, U+015F, U+0162, U+0163 codepoints but instead
    uses U+0218, U+0219, U+021A, U+021B. \r\n\r\nb) change the manner how it treats
    OpenType PS (.otf) fonts in that it no longer relies on glyphnames to build a
    glyph-to-Unicode mapping but instead, directly uses the \"cmap\" table included
    in the font. \r\n\r\nTo avoid problems with current Mac OS X versions, font developers
    should do three things: \r\n\r\na) do not use the \"*commaaccent\" glyphnames
    but use the \"uni****\" glyphnames instead\r\n\r\nb) draw the \"Scedilla\" and
    \"scedilla\" glyphs with a cedilla, and draw the \"uni0162\", \"uni0163\", \"uni0218\",
    \"uni0219\", \"uni021A\", \"uni021B\" glyphs with a commaaccent (\"commaaccent\"
    does not mean that the accent has to look 100% like a small comma, but it should
    be disconnected from the base letter, should be thicker at the top and thinner
    at the bottom)\r\n\r\nc) provide the following OpenType feature definition code
    in their fonts: \r\n\r\n<code>feature locl { # Localized Forms\r\nlanguage MOL;
    # Moldavian\r\n  sub [Scedilla scedilla] by [uni0218 uni0219];\r\nlanguage ROM;
    # Romanian\r\n  sub [Scedilla scedilla] by [uni0218 uni0219];\r\n} locl;</code>\r\n\r\nOptionally,
    the type designer could provide stylistic alternates \"uni0162.cedilla\" and \"uni1063.cedilla\"
    that indeed would be \"T/t with cedilla\", suitable for Semitic studies and similar
    applications. These could be available through the \"ss**\" and \"salt\" OpenType
    layout features. \r\n\r\nShould the type designers feel that he desperately needs
    to to draw the \"uni0162\", \"uni0163\" glyphs using a cedilla, they should provide
    the following OpenType feature definition code in their fonts: \r\n\r\n<code>feature
    locl { # Localized Forms\r\nlanguage MOL; # Moldavian\r\n  sub [Scedilla scedilla]
    by [uni0218 uni0219];\r\n  sub [uni0162 uni0163] by [uni021A uni021B];\r\nlanguage
    ROM; # Romanian\r\n  sub [Scedilla scedilla] by [uni0218 uni0219];\r\n  sub [uni0162
    uni0163] by [uni021A uni021B];\r\n} locl;</code>\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam Twardoch\r\nFontlab
    Ltd.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-29 23:10:50'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>Here is how I read the notes from the Standard that you displayed above
    [...]</em>\r\n\r\nThat is not exactly the way the notes are to be read. The entries
    with a bullet (\u2022) are Informative Notes, the ones with an arrow (\u2192)
    are Cross References, and the ones with an equivalent sign (\u2261) are Canonical
    Decompositions. According to the Unicode 5.0 reference book, these are defined
    as:\r\n\r\n<strong>Information About Languages</strong>\r\nAn informative note
    may include a list of one or more of the languages using that character where
    this information is considered useful. For case pairs, the annotation is given
    only for the lowercase form to avoid needless repetition. An ellipsis \"...\"
    indicates that the listed languages cited are merely the principal ones among
    many.\r\n\r\n<strong>Cross References</strong>\r\nCross references are used to
    indicate a related character of interest, but without indicating the nature of
    the relation. Possibilities are a different character of similar appearance or
    name, the other member of a case pair, or some other linguistic relationship.\r\n\r\n<strong>Decompositions</strong>\r\nThe
    decomposition sequences (one or more letters) given for a character is either
    its canonical mapping or its compatibility mapping. The canonical mapping is marked
    with an <em>identical to</em> symbol \u2261.\r\n\r\nIn addition, in page 564 one
    can read the following:\r\n<strong>Images in the Code Charts and Character Lists</strong>\r\nEach
    character in these code charts is shown with a representative glyph. A representative
    glyph is not a prescriptive form of the character, but rather one that enables
    recognition of the intended character to a knowledgeable user and facilitates
    lookup of the character in the code charts. In many cases, there are more or less
    well-established alternative glyphic representations for the same character.\r\n\r\nDesigners
    of high-quality fonts will do their own research into the preferred glyphic appearance
    of Unicode characters.[...]"
  created: '2007-08-29 23:18:40'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: ">  Well, I guess that is where we differ. [added with edit]\r\n\r\nOk, that's
    fair. \r\n\r\nSo more research is needed (or maybe just call people from the Consortium,
    they are people too and there is a phone number on their site).\r\n\r\nHere is
    a citation from Chapter 7, page 228, of the Unicode Standard version 5.0 to be
    found <a href=\"http://www.unicode.org/versions/Unicode5.0.0/ch07.pdf\"><strong>here</strong></a>.\r\n\r\n<cite>\r\nIn
    Turkish and Romanian, a cedilla and a comma below sometimes replace one another
    depending on the font style, as shown in example 4 in Figure 7-1. The form with
    the cedilla is preferred in Turkish, and the form with the comma below is preferred
    in Romanian. The characters with explicit commas below are provided to permit
    the distinction from characters with a cedilla. Legacy encodings for these characters
    contain only a single form of each of these characters. ISO/IEC 8859-2 maps these
    to the form with the cedilla, while ISO/IEC 8859-16 maps them to the form with
    the comma below. Migrating Romanian 8-bit data to Unicode should be done with
    care.\r\n</cite>\r\nAnd here is Fig 7-1.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fig71_6326.gif]\r\nThe
    cedilla form being preferred in Turkish, why then remove it completely from the
    font?\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2007-08-29 23:31:36'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "@Miguel\r\n\r\nWell, I now see the syntax is not quite the one I was expecting;
    \ I also feel bad for people that depend on characters that are not accessible
    in their font. \r\n\r\nMichel\r\n\r\n[edit] In fact, I am not sure the way you
    describe the interpretation is fundamentally inconsistent with mine."
  created: '2007-08-29 23:51:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>The cedilla form being preferred in Turkish, why then remove it completely
    from the font?</em>\r\n\r\nTurkish doesn't use a T/t with cedilla, only S/s and
    C/c.\r\n\r\nLet me provide some background here to the practice to date with regard
    to the T/t with cedilla, and then outline what I am doing now and what I recommend
    to other font developers. This has changed recently.\r\n\r\nWhen font developers
    started extending their fonts to support central and eastern European languages,
    they began documenting the orthographies of these languages, noting glyph preferences
    and correlating these to Unicode characters. Romanian was quickly identified as
    a problem in terms of both encoding and glyph preference. The encoding problem
    was due to the fact that Unicode provided a single codepoint encoding two text
    entities that, it turns out, needed to be distinguished: S/s with cedilla below
    and S/s with comma accent below. It should be noted that Unicode also encoded
    a number of other characters nominally 'with cedilla', but for which a comma accent
    form is preferred in all the European orthographies that use these diacritic letters:
    K/k, R/r and, importantly it turned out, T/t. So although Unicode calls these
    characters letters 'with cedilla' the expectation in most fonts is that these
    will actually be displayed with a comma accent below, as per the editorial notes
    in the Unicode Standard and user expectations.\r\n\r\nBut the S/s with cedilla
    created a different situation, because that diacritic, with an actual cedilla
    not a comma accent, is a common feature of virtually all Turkic language orthographies
    using the Latin script. This meant that font developers and text processing engineers
    had a problem because a single codepoint encoded two possible forms that needed
    to be distinguished for different languages. So Unicode and WG2, with input from
    the Romanian national standards body, decided to add separate codepoints for the
    two Romanian diacritics S/s and T/t with comma accent.\r\n\r\nThat should have
    solved the problem, but it hasn't because pre-existing 8-bit Romanian character
    sets -- which continued to be used by some computer systems and that bizarrely
    continue to influence encoding and display behaviour even in some nominally Unicode
    environments (notably Mac OS X) -- reference the old, unified S/s and T/t 'with
    cedilla' codepoints. And of course there are a lot of existing Romanian documents
    that use those codepoints. And change-over to the new, comma accent codepoints
    has been slow and inconsistent.\r\n\r\nNow, bearing in mind again that what the
    majority of font developers were trying to do was to support the modern orthographies
    of a subset of European languages and not all the languages of the world and not
    semitic transliteration and other specialised uses, it appeared that the most
    efficient way to give the most desirable display of the most number of characters
    for Romanian users was to present the T/t 'with cedilla' character with a comma
    accent form <em>just as is done for K/k and R/r 'with cedilla'</em>. Further,
    in acknowledgement that the old cedilla codepoints would continue to be an issue
    for Romanian users, fonts were future-oriented at projected support for OpenType
    language system tagging, by mapping the S/s with cedilla to the comma accent glyph
    forms via language-specific substitution lookups for Romanian. What this means
    is that in applications like InDesign CS3 that support such tagging, both S/s
    and T/t will display with the comma accent <em>regardless of which character pairs
    are used to encode the text.</em>\r\n\r\nGiven the information available -- the
    clear preference of Romanian users for the comma accent form, the lack of use
    of T/t with cedilla in any of the target orthographies, and the glyph processing
    options available --, I think this was all pretty reasonable decision making.\r\n\r\nWhat
    we hadn't taken into account, because no one had raised the issue until very recently,
    is that the Romanians might have a different preference in the condition in which
    systems and applications do not take advantage of the OpenType language system
    tagging. In such situations, the S/s diacritic, when encoded using the old codepoints,
    displays with a cedilla not a comma accent, and the only way to correct this is
    to change the encoding to the new codepoints (which, as far as I'm concerned,
    is exactly what should be done). As explained above, the approach in the past
    ten years has been for font developers to minimise the number of incorrectly displayed
    Romanian diacritics to this single S/s diacritic, and to map the T/t 'with cedilla'
    character to a comma accent glyph, so that this diacritic displays correctly.\r\n\r\nLast
    year, I began to hear, through Microsoft's Romanian marketing people, that in
    this situation, where display of the S/s diacritic is with the cedilla, their
    preference is, in fact, for T/t to also display with cedilla <em>for the sake
    of consistency.</em> This is a notable instance of two wrongs making a right:
    it is preferable for both diacritics to display incorrectly with the cedilla than
    for one diacritic to display correctly while the other displays incorrectly.\r\n\r\nSo
    I have recently revised my approach, and advise other font developers to do the
    same: start including those T/t with cedilla glyphs mapped to U+0162 and U+0163,
    because that, it turns out, is what the Romanians want. Of course, under the Romanian
    language system tag, these should then be mapped to comma accent forms as a glyph-level
    rather than a character-level solution to the Romanian display issue.\r\n\r\nAnd
    it should go without saying that anyone making fonts that are targeted at broader
    language use and things like semitic transliteration should already be including
    T/t with cedilla as appropriate."
  created: '2007-08-29 23:58:30'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "> do not use the \u201C*commaaccent\u201D glyphnames but use the \u201Cuni****\u201D
    glyphnames instead\r\n\r\nSince this thread started with a practical problem caused
    by an existing font using \"*commaaccent\" in glyphnames,  I will ask it would
    be a lot of work to provide end-users with a downloadable \"patch\" that, when
    applied to that font, globally replaces the \"*commaaccent\" glyphnames by the
    appropriate \"uni****\".\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-30 03:11:33'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Doesn't this thread belong to the Build forum now?\r\n\r\nMichel Boyer --
    <cite>The cedilla form being preferred in Turkish, why then remove it completely
    from the font?</cite>\r\n\r\nThere is no Tcedilla/tcedilla in Turkish.\r\nHowever,
    John Hudson's paragraph 'So I have recently revised my approach' adds another
    aspect to consider which suggests to keep it. (Thank you for this.)\r\n\r\nMichel
    Boyer -- <cite>And here is Fig 7-1.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat looks interesting to me
    is number (2) in this illustration. How acceptable is the dcaron/tcaron/lcaron
    versions with a 'real' caron above in countries that use them? With spacing/kerning
    in mind -- these would be much easier to deal with. I am curious for comments.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2007-08-30 10:47:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Great post John! Very clearly stated (and appreciated).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-30 15:53:10'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "> Great post John!\r\n\r\nIndeed! And thanks."
  created: '2007-08-30 16:25:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Karsten: <ew>What looks interesting to me is number (2) in this illustration.
    How acceptable is the dcaron/tcaron/lcaron versions with a \u2019real\u2019 caron
    above in countries that use them? With spacing/kerning in mind \u2014 these would
    be much easier to deal with. I am curious for comments.</em>\r\n\r\nNote that
    the figure is illustrating possible glyph variants at the script level, not at
    the individual language level. The 'real caron' forms are legitimate ways of representing
    these diacritic characters within the Latin script system and, indeed, there may
    be situations or languages for which these forms are preferred. But for Czech
    and Slovak the apostrophe-like form is very much the norm, and I've not seen the
    other form used with L/l d or t in any Czech typography. So again the issue is
    one of what languages you are targeting. The majority of Latin font development
    is targeted at languages of European use or origin, so the expectation is that
    the Czech and Slovak forms for these diacritic letters will be the default forms
    in most fonts.\r\n\r\nAs the target language coverage for fonts expands, the support
    of language-specific glyph variation will become more and more important. Thankfully,
    we're beginning to see it implemented, albeit not in an ideal way, in major apps
    like InDesign CS3 (and even in CS2 ME)."
  created: '2007-08-30 22:44:54'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Hello John, thank you. \"But for Czech and Slovak the apostrophe-like form
    is very much the norm, and I\u2019ve not seen the other form used with L/l d or
    t in any Czech typography.\" This indeed answers my question. I wondered if --
    maybe not at once but in future -- national habits might change in favor of a
    common denominator, and with some luck this would be forms that are less likely
    to collide.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2007-08-31 00:41:35'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "> <em>Unfortunately, Mac OS X does not recognize the \u201C*commaaccent\u201D
    glyphnames </em>\r\n\r\nI took the time to test and in fact, in Myriad Pro, the
    names [G/g, K/k, L/l, N/n, R/r, S/s]commaaccent are all used  and are all processed
    correctly by my Mac. \r\n\r\nIt is only [T/t]commaaccent in 0x0162 and 0x0163
    that cause problem so far as I can see. Could you be more precise in your statement?\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-31 02:13:33'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "More precisely, here is the display of a text written with Textedit in Myriad
    Pro with a customized keyboard.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/commaaccented_4713.gif]\r\nTo
    see exactly what is typed, we need only look at the text of the saved rtf file;
    here it is:\r\n<P>\r\n<code>\r\n{\\rtf1\\mac\\ansicpg10000\\cocoartf824\\cocoasubrtf410<br>\r\n{\\fonttbl\\f0\\fnil\\fcharset77
    MyriadPro-Regular;}<br>\r\n{\\colortbl;\\red255\\green255\\blue255;}<br>\r\n\\margl1440\\margr1440\\vieww10380\\viewh8460\\viewkind0<br>\r\n\\pard\\tx566\\tx1133\\tx1700\\tx2267\\tx2834\\tx3401\\tx3968\\tx4535\\tx5102\\tx5669\\tx6236\\tx6803\\ql\\qnatural\\pardirnatural<br>\r\n<br>\r\n\\f0\\fs96
    \\cf0 \\<br>\r\n        \\uc0\\u291 \\u290 \\u311 \\u310 \\u316 \\u315 \\u326
    \\u325 \\u343 \\u342 \\u537 \\u536 \\<br>\r\n}<br>\r\n</code>\r\n<P>\r\nWe see
    that the characters are all in MyriadPro-Regular (the font \\f0) and we also have
    the characters with their decimal value;\r\nhere they are, with their transformation
    in hexa, and then their name in the otf file of Myriad Pro Regular:<br>\r\n<P>\r\n<code>\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    \\u291 ;  0x0123   ; gcommaaccent  <br>\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; \\u290 ;  0x0122
    \  ; Gcommaaccent  <br>\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; \\u311 ;  0x0137   ; kcommaaccent
    \ <br>\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; \\u136 ;  0x0136   ; Kcommaaccent  <br>\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    \\u316 ;  0x013C   ; lcommaaccent  <br>\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; \\u315 ;  0x013B
    \  ; Lcommaaccent  <br>\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; \\u326 ;  0x0146   ; ncommaaccent
    \ <br>\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; \\u325 ;  0x0145   ; Ncommaaccent  <br>\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    \\u343 ;  0x0157   ; rcommaaccent  <br>\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; \\u342 ;  0x0156
    \  ; Rcommaaccent  <br>\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; \\u537 ;  0x0219   ; scommaaccent
    \ <br>\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; \\u536 ;  0x0218   ; Scommaaccent  <br>\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2007-08-31 02:59:31'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Correction: of course, the line\r\n<code>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; \\u136
    ;  0x0136   ; Kcommaaccent </code>\r\nabove should read\r\n<code>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    \\u310 ;  0x0136   ; Kcommaaccent </code>\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-31 21:17:02'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "I tried other things and here is what I found. The characters whose glyphs
    are\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tT_4667.gif]\r\nare in 0x0162 and 0x21A
    for the majuscule,  0x0163 and 0x021B for the minuscule and here is what they
    are named by Adobe in Myriad Pro:\r\n<code>\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; uni0162
    : Tcommaaccent \r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; uni0163 : tcommaaccent \r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    uni021A : uni021A \r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; uni021B : uni021B \r\n</code>\r\n\r\nIt
    is the characters in 0x0162 and and 0x0163 that are not recognized by the Mac.
    If we rename the above four characters as follows:\r\n<code>\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    uni0162 : Tcedilla \r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; uni0163 : tcedilla \r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    uni021A : Tcommaaccent \r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; uni021B : tcommaaccent \r\n</code>\r\n\r\nthen
    all the characters in the resulting font are recognized by the Mac, be they called
    *commaaccent or *cedilla. So it is not the names that are causing a problem but
    what they are naming. Is Tcommaaccent uni0162 or is it uni021A? As pointed out
    by Adam, in a quite different style, one way to lift the disagreement is not to
    use the names Tcommaaccent and tcommaaccent and use uni0162 and uni0163, on which
    everyone agrees.\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n\r\nPS. Notice that if we execute the command\r\n<code>\r\ncurl
    -s http://www.unicode.org/Public/UNIDATA/NamesList.txt | egrep '^0162|^0163|^021A|^021B'\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nto
    get the names in Unicode's NamesList we get this:\r\n<code>\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;0162
    \   LATIN CAPITAL LETTER T WITH CEDILLA *\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;0163    LATIN
    SMALL LETTER T WITH CEDILLA *\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;021A    LATIN CAPITAL
    LETTER T WITH COMMA BELOW *\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;021B    LATIN SMALL LETTER
    T WITH COMMA BELOW *\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nand those are the names displayed by the
    Macintosh character palette.\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-01 00:59:19'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "I must add that I fail to understand by what mechanism such disagreement
    would cause characters not to be acessible. If you have any idea, please tell
    me.\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2007-09-01 01:46:48'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "And I am still more puzzled when, after a <code>curl -s</code> and a <code>join</code>
    I get the following comparative table of Adobe names and names in Unicode's file
    NamesList.txt\r\n<code>\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;0122&nbsp;&nbsp;Gcommaaccent&nbsp;&nbsp;LATIN&nbsp;CAPITAL&nbsp;LETTER&nbsp;G&nbsp;WITH&nbsp;CEDILLA\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;0123&nbsp;&nbsp;gcommaaccent&nbsp;&nbsp;LATIN&nbsp;SMALL&nbsp;LETTER&nbsp;G&nbsp;WITH&nbsp;CEDILLA\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;0136&nbsp;&nbsp;Kcommaaccent&nbsp;&nbsp;LATIN&nbsp;CAPITAL&nbsp;LETTER&nbsp;K&nbsp;WITH&nbsp;CEDILLA\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;0137&nbsp;&nbsp;kcommaaccent&nbsp;&nbsp;LATIN&nbsp;SMALL&nbsp;LETTER&nbsp;K&nbsp;WITH&nbsp;CEDILLA\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;013B&nbsp;&nbsp;Lcommaaccent&nbsp;&nbsp;LATIN&nbsp;CAPITAL&nbsp;LETTER&nbsp;L&nbsp;WITH&nbsp;CEDILLA\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;013C&nbsp;&nbsp;lcommaaccent&nbsp;&nbsp;LATIN&nbsp;SMALL&nbsp;LETTER&nbsp;L&nbsp;WITH&nbsp;CEDILLA\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;0145&nbsp;&nbsp;Ncommaaccent&nbsp;&nbsp;LATIN&nbsp;CAPITAL&nbsp;LETTER&nbsp;N&nbsp;WITH&nbsp;CEDILLA\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;0146&nbsp;&nbsp;ncommaaccent&nbsp;&nbsp;LATIN&nbsp;SMALL&nbsp;LETTER&nbsp;N&nbsp;WITH&nbsp;CEDILLA\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;0156&nbsp;&nbsp;Rcommaaccent&nbsp;&nbsp;LATIN&nbsp;CAPITAL&nbsp;LETTER&nbsp;R&nbsp;WITH&nbsp;CEDILLA\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;0157&nbsp;&nbsp;rcommaaccent&nbsp;&nbsp;LATIN&nbsp;SMALL&nbsp;LETTER&nbsp;R&nbsp;WITH&nbsp;CEDILLA\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;015E&nbsp;&nbsp;Scedilla&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;LATIN&nbsp;CAPITAL&nbsp;LETTER&nbsp;S&nbsp;WITH&nbsp;CEDILLA&nbsp;*\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;015F&nbsp;&nbsp;scedilla&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;LATIN&nbsp;SMALL&nbsp;LETTER&nbsp;S&nbsp;WITH&nbsp;CEDILLA&nbsp;*\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;0162&nbsp;&nbsp;Tcommaaccent&nbsp;&nbsp;LATIN&nbsp;CAPITAL&nbsp;LETTER&nbsp;T&nbsp;WITH&nbsp;CEDILLA&nbsp;*\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;0163&nbsp;&nbsp;tcommaaccent&nbsp;&nbsp;LATIN&nbsp;SMALL&nbsp;LETTER&nbsp;T&nbsp;WITH&nbsp;CEDILLA&nbsp;*\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;0218&nbsp;&nbsp;Scommaaccent&nbsp;&nbsp;LATIN&nbsp;CAPITAL&nbsp;LETTER&nbsp;S&nbsp;WITH&nbsp;COMMA&nbsp;BELOW&nbsp;*\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;0219&nbsp;&nbsp;scommaaccent&nbsp;&nbsp;LATIN&nbsp;SMALL&nbsp;LETTER&nbsp;S&nbsp;WITH&nbsp;COMMA&nbsp;BELOW&nbsp;*\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;021A&nbsp;&nbsp;uni021A&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;LATIN&nbsp;CAPITAL&nbsp;LETTER&nbsp;T&nbsp;WITH&nbsp;COMMA&nbsp;BELOW&nbsp;*\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;021B&nbsp;&nbsp;uni021B&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;LATIN&nbsp;SMALL&nbsp;LETTER&nbsp;T&nbsp;WITH&nbsp;COMMA&nbsp;BELOW&nbsp;*\r\n</code>\r\nIf
    the other \"commaaccent\" are recognized, why not also [T/t]commaaccent ? \r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2007-09-03 13:13:41'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Don't spend too much thought on this. Since it is a Mac OS bug, the question
    is not 'why?' but 'when will it be fixed?'&nbsp;&nbsp;:)&nbsp;&nbsp;Follow Adam's
    and John's advices as regards glyph naming and the locl feature, and the font
    will work fine. At least in \u2265 10.4."
  created: '2007-09-03 13:59:38'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Here is something else that does not quite fit the world I am used to. It
    comes from <a href=\"http://www.unicode.org/charts/PDF/U0100.pdf\"><strong>this
    chart</strong></a> of Unicode's standard:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gcedilla_6174.gif]\r\nThe
    name mentions a cedilla, and the definition in BNF style says that it is built
    with a G and a character 0327 which is indeed a cedilla, yet the Gcedilla they
    display is with a comma. I must confess that I don't like this. This obviously
    confirms Miguel's comment. [edit] about my too strict interpretion of what looked
    to me like a BNF definition. The same holds for g, K, k, L, l, N, n, R, and r.
    Only S, s, T and t are shown with a cedilla in that chart.\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2007-09-03 14:40:32'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "> Don\u2019t spend too much thought on this.\r\n\r\nI am learning and I have
    no need to follow advices because I am not a developer. My problem is with Unicode's
    definition itself and is probably somewhat  \"Academic\" for the time being.\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2007-09-03 14:51:07'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "> Don\u2019t spend too much thought on this. (again)\r\n\r\nI am spending
    too much time indeed, but it is quite fascinating. For instance, I have a Teach
    Yourself Romanian that dates back to 1970. People did not have computers at home
    by then. I don't know when fonts started to be digitized. Well, in that book all
    the t \"cecilla\" have a comma below. As for the s,  on the very same page, very
    close one from the other, I can see one with a comma, one with a hook and one
    with the cedilla of Times New Roman. "
  created: '2007-09-03 15:15:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>The name mentions a cedilla, and the definition in BNF style says that
    it is built with a G and a character 0327 which is indeed a cedilla, yet the Gcedilla
    they display is with a comma. I must confess that I don\u2019t like this.</em>\r\n\r\nGo
    back and read my long post again. All the 'with cedilla' characters in Unicode
    except C/c cedilla and S/s cedilla are properly displayed with the comma accent
    form in the European orthographies that use these characters. The unification
    of cedilla and comma accent under the name cedilla was an early error in Unicode,
    and one which for stability reasons they chose not to correct except in the case
    of the S/s and T/t comma accent for Romanian (and given the massive confusion
    and conflicting text encodings that that correction has produced, one can see
    why they would avoid throwing the Baltic languages that use the other 'cedilla'
    characters into the same mess). It was a mistake to conflate these two diacritic
    marks and a mistake to call them 'with cedilla' in the formal names, but it is
    an old mistake and one that we have to live with."
  created: '2007-09-03 18:57:11'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "> it is an old mistake and one that we have to live with.\r\n\r\nThanks for
    clarifying. Is there other instances in the Unicode \"specification\" that require
    such an exegesis?\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-03 19:51:13'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "This does not answer all my questions. If I look at the \"cedillas\" in New
    Times Roman, I see this\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/newtimesroman_5212.gif]\r\nAll
    the \"cedillas\" whether attached or detached match, except those under the Romanian
    \"t\"; this inconsistency must have a justification. Are they all \"commas below\"
    but looking different (except of course for S and s cedilla).\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n\r\n[added]
    You mention \"the other \u2019cedilla\u2019 characters\". Maybe you are expecting
    too much from me, taking for granted a background I don't have. For me a cedilla
    may be detached, and when I write a c cedilla in French, it will most probably
    not be connected with the c, even if it is printed connected. So, for me something
    that looks like a cedilla even if it does not look like an attached cedilla is
    a cedilla; mixing detached cedillas with attached cedillas is no problem for me.
    But mixing a comma with a detached cedilla feels really weird."
  created: '2007-09-03 20:48:49'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Here is a (rare) example of a detached cedilla in my old Teach Yourself Romanian.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sced_5368.gif]\r\nCould
    this be a good example of a 'scommaaccent' ? All the T and t have real commas
    under, like those of Times New Roman.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-03 21:17:33'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "> <cite>It should be noted that Unicode also encoded a number of other characters
    nominally \u2019with cedilla\u2019, but for which a comma accent form is preferred
    in all the European orthographies that use these diacritic letters: K/k, R/r and,
    importantly it turned out, T/t.</cite>\r\n\r\nShould I conclude that the above
    R/r characters in Times New Roman are wrong?\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2007-09-03 22:29:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Is there other instances in the Unicode \u201Cspecification\u201D that
    require such an exegesis?</em>\r\n\r\nYes, quite a few. Perversely, the relative
    messiness of Unicode as a standard is a testament to its success: it was willing
    to accept dubious encodings and politically motivated proposals (e.g. the Arabic
    presentation forms and the composed Hangual syllables), at least during the early
    years, in order to get the standard off the ground.\r\n\r\n<em>So, for me something
    that looks like a cedilla even if it does not look like an attached cedilla is
    a cedilla; mixing detached cedillas with attached cedillas is no problem for me.
    But mixing a comma with a detached cedilla feels really weird.</em>\r\n\r\nAn
    unattached cedilla is probably pretty acceptable to a Romanian or Baltic reader.
    Indeed, there have been attempts to design what Chuck Bigelow call a 'commadilla',
    a deliberatly ambiguous, disconnected form that could be read as either a cedilla
    or a comma accent according to the preference of the reader."
  created: '2007-09-04 01:29:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Should I conclude that the above R/r characters in Times New Roman are
    wrong?</em>\r\n\r\nNot in themselves: as I just wrote, this kind of unattached
    curved shape is probably an acceptable 'commaaccent', but it would be better if
    all the commaaccent glyphs were consistent. It isn't crucial for European languages,
    because the T/t commaaccent is only used alongside S/s commaaccent, not alongside
    the Baltic diacritics.\r\n\r\nBy the way, at which version of Times New Roman
    are you looking? The Windows Vista version distinguishes T/t with cedilla from
    T/t with commaaccent."
  created: '2007-09-04 01:35:48'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "> <cite>which version of Times New Roman are you looking</cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    is Monotype Version 3.05 that probably came with Microsoft Office 2004. My PC
    is not working at the moment but in any case, it does not run Vista. Vista is
    not supported by our staff. [added] I am working almost all the time on my mac."
  created: '2007-09-04 02:50:11'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "My disk is dead; I couldn't even try installing Office 2007. I presume that
    when the Unicode glyph name contained CEDILLA they chose one of the CEDILLA subglyphs
    under and when it contained the word COMMA they chose the COMMA subglyph under:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/subglyphs_5721.gif]\r\n[added]
    ... except, of course, for g.\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2007-09-05 02:36:15'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Fontlab Ltd.'s current recommendation is to design four glyphs using a cedilla
    accent, and giving the S with cedilla glyphs the  <code>*cedilla</code> names
    and the T with cedilla glyphs <code>uniXXXX</code> names or <code>*cedilla</code>
    names. The notes that follow the glyph names are not the Unicode character names
    but actual descriptive names:\r\n\r\n<code>U+015E \"Scedilla\"</code> Latin capital
    S with cedilla\r\n<code>U+015F \"scedilla\"</code> Latin small s with cedilla\r\n<code>U+0162
    \"uni0162\"</code> or <code>\"Tcedilla\"</code> Latin capital T with cedilla\r\n<code>U+0163
    \"uni0163\"</code> or <code>\"tcedilla\"</code> Latin small t with cedilla\r\n\r\nThe
    remaining glyphs in question should include glyphs with the commaaccent diacritic
    and should use <code>uniXXXX</code> names, <em>not <code>*commaaccent</code> names.</em>\r\n\r\n<code>U+0122
    \"uni0122\"</code> Latin capital G with commaaccent below\r\n<code>U+0123 \"uni0123\"</code>
    Latin small g with turned commaaccent above\r\n<code>U+0136 \"uni0136\"</code>
    Latin capital K with commaaccent below\r\n<code>U+0137 \"uni0137\"</code> Latin
    small k with commaaccent below\r\n<code>U+013B \"uni013B\"</code> Latin capital
    L with commaaccent below\r\n<code>U+013C \"uni013C\"</code> Latin small l with
    commaaccent below\r\n<code>U+0145 \"uni0145\"</code> Latin capital N with commaaccent
    below\r\n<code>U+0146 \"uni0146\"</code> Latin small n with commaaccent below\r\n<code>U+0156
    \"uni0156\"</code> Latin capital R with comma below\r\n<code>U+0157 \"uni0157\"</code>
    Latin small r with commaaccent below\r\n<code>U+0218 \"uni0218\"</code> Latin
    capital S with commaaccent below\r\n<code>U+0219 \"uni0219\"</code> Latin small
    s with commaaccent below\r\n<code>U+021A \"uni021A\"</code> Latin capital T with
    commaaccent below\r\n<code>U+021B \"uni021B\"</code> Latin small t with commaaccent
    below"
  created: '2008-08-18 18:13:35'
date: '2007-08-25 10:03:28'
node_type: forum
title: Modifying Apple's Myriad Pro

---
