---
author:
  name: Steve Tiano
body: "I've been having a running conversation on the Design forum about my burgeoning
  interest in typeface design--I am a book designer and page layout artist. Initially,
  of course, FontLab Studio comes up as <i>the</i> software package of choice for
  professional typeface design. Some have said, Type Tool is also something to start
  with and then, as necessary, make the switch later to FontLab.\r\n\r\nSome mention
  was made of the open source package FontForge. I'm on a dual processor G5 PowerMac
  running OS 10.4.10. After understanding what was necessary to get the X11 server
  package installed, it was an eay matter of installing and running FontForge, even
  though it is UNIX-based and I am not a techie.\r\n\r\nBut I was also told \"given
  that there is a learning curve for any of the programs,\" I \"risk wasting time
  by going with [FontForge]. ... some software people use it, but not the design community.\"\r\n\r\nHow
  do folks here feel about that? Is it accurate? Should I just stay away from FontForge,
  start with TypeTool if the investment is presently too much to get FontLab (but
  assume that professional typeface design will eventually mean moving to FontLab
  Studio)? Does anyone do viable, professional creative work in FontForge?\r\n\r\nThank
  you.\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: I vote for FontLab. I know that it is expensive, but most professionals use
    it, and its development is directly influenced by feedback from said professional
    designers. I've been using it for about three years, and I love it.
  created: '2007-08-25 11:46:00'
- author:
    name: Gary Long
    picture: 112662
  body: I bought Typetool 3 to discover if I had the stamina to design and produce
    a complete typeface, and found it surprisingly good considering the modest price---easy
    to learn, decent tools. I will move up to Fontlab in due course, but if you don't
    need Opentype features, it might be all you need, especially if you're making
    type for your own use.
  created: '2007-08-25 16:55:21'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Gary, \r\n\r\nalso, if you use Windows, you may install the free Microsoft
    VOLT or the free Adobe FDK for OpenType (AFDKO) to add your OpenType features.
    A combination of TypeTool 3 + VOLT or TypeTool 3 + AFDKO will actually let you
    build professional-quality OpenType fonts. Since TypeTool 3 is based on the FontLab
    Studio 5 core, the technical quality of the fonts made in TypeTool 3 will not
    be any less from those made in FontLab Studio 5 (esp. if one only uses autohinting
    in FLS5 rather than manual hinting, which most people do these days -- FLS5 lets
    you do both auto and manual, and TT3 only does auto, but uses the same algorithms
    as FLS5). \r\n\r\nYou can find the links to the software I mentioned at\r\nhttp://www.font.org/software/
    \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam Twardoch\r\nFontlab Ltd. \r\n"
  created: '2007-08-25 18:16:07'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I tried using Typetool, and while it is a great program, I was really just
    using it to compile fonts that I was building in Illustrator due to some of the
    Typetool drawing limitations. But I find that drawing letters in Fontlab is often
    easier, and keeps me from running into the performance and file management issues
    that come along with keeping the letters in Illustrator. This week I decided to
    just move on and upgraded to Fontlab, which wasn\u2019t to hard on my wallet now
    that Fontlab offers academic discounts.\r\n\r\nSomething to keep in mind about
    Fontforge is that, being an esoteric open source program, the amount of quality
    help and support that you\u2019re likely to get for it is something like nil.
    If you have trouble with Fontlab, you can just post here and eventually one of
    the Fontlab programmers will probably answer your question."
  created: '2007-08-25 18:40:03'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Have you who have posted so far really given FontForge a fair shake?  I'm
    transitioning from my decade old copy of Fontographer to FontForge, and while
    it hasn't exactly been smooth, the tools in FontForge offer a lot of significant
    improvements. As far as technical support, if you sign up for both the users and
    developers (for bug reporting) mailing lists, you have direct access to the program's
    author who takes very quick action to address any problems, and if it takes altering
    the program to effect the fix, he'll do so without hesitation (first with a patch,
    and at least once a month with a full build).
  created: '2007-08-25 21:35:41'
- author:
    name: anagnost
    picture: 112746
  body: "Steve,\r\n\r\nFirst of all, I don't think learning FontForge can be considered
    a waste of time even if you decide not to use it for your actual work. In general,
    I am sure that having some experience with \"alternate\" applications is always
    extremely useful, because it allows you to understand the difference between the
    peculiarities of your application of choice (e. g. Word or FontLab) and your general
    task (e. g. word processing or font design) and thus to use your favorite application
    more effectively.\r\n\r\nRegarding FontForge itself: I used it for several years,
    and now I am also participating in its development by submitting patches. I have
    also some experience with FontLab, and I am sure that FontForge is better at many
    aspects. In particular, I heard many font designers (especially those who had
    previously got familiar with Fontographer) to complain that FontLab is very inconvenient
    as a spline editor. But drawing glyphs with FontForge is a real joy, so that no
    external tools are required. Just one example: FontForge has an option to mark
    extrema points and points of inflection on the spline. Thus if I see that handles
    of some of my points expected to be positioned at extrema are not exactly horizontal/vertical
    I can easily correct this, while in FontLab I would have to run FontAudit to notice
    this  problem. BTW, I often see slightly distorted extrema even in costy commercial
    fonts, and I am sure this would be not possible if their designers had used FontForge.\r\n\r\nFurthermore,
    FontForge is much more powerful than FL in designing OpenType layouts. In particular
    it allows to define anchor points for combining marks ('mark' and 'mkmk' features)
    which neither FontLab nor AFDKO support. Well, most designers currently do that
    with VOLT, but VOLT is only for TrueType fonts, while FontForge supports the OpenType-CFF
    format as well. FontForge also has a nice intuitive GUI for adding OT features,
    which is much clearer for me than feature files with their obscure syntax.\r\n\r\nI
    should mention also the main (to my mind) FontForge's disadvantage, which still
    makes using it for production quality TrueType fonts a bit difficult. FontForge's
    TTF autoinstructing code is really bad, and the developer was not interested in
    fixing this problem for years. However, things are changing now, as there are
    volunteers working to improve this functionality. On the other hand, FontForge
    already may be very useful even for creating/modifying TTF instructions: first,
    it allows to modify them directly (unlike FontLab), and second, it has an excellent
    TTF debugger which is extremely useful for anyone who would like to understand
    how exactly his/her instructions work.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-25 23:57:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">in FontLab I would have to run FontAudit to notice this problem.\r\n\r\nYou
    don't have to run FontAudit; you can just leave it on, and it will mark extrema,
    non-vertical handles, etc. "
  created: '2007-08-26 01:59:46'
- author:
    name: Steve Tiano
  body: "Thanks for that response, anagnost. That's kind of what I've been hoping
    to hear.\r\n\r\nAs I'm really the most elementary kind of a novice at this, I
    can't really draw a lick, and I'm seeing this as a long-term project, I'm actually
    starting by reading some history of type stuff. I know the typefaces I like the
    looks of; now I want to see how they fit in to various ways of categorizing them.
    And then maybe the next step will be to start sketching by hand some characters.
    After that, I imagine, it will be time to bring FontForge into the mix.\r\n\r\nI'm
    sure I'll be keeping this forum informed."
  created: '2007-08-26 22:06:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Aganost, based on your post, I tried installing Fontforge and firing it up,
    something I haven\u2019t done in a few months. Being on a new laptop, I had to
    install the program fresh. It does not, however, start, as one of the libraries
    is missing. So now I am faced with two options: just stick with Fontlab, or uninstall
    Fontforge and start installing older Fontforge packages until I get one that works.\r\n\r\nAnd
    now I remember why I don\u2019t bother with free software. It\u2019s only free
    if my time is worth nothing."
  created: '2007-08-27 05:10:56'
- author:
    name: anagnost
    picture: 112746
  body: "> So now I am faced with two options\r\n\r\nFor me, the most obvious option
    would be just to install the missing library...\r\n\r\n> It\u2019s only free if
    my time is worth nothing.\r\n\r\nYou should understand your problem has nothing
    to do with free software. Many open source applications have been successfully
    ported to Windows (or MacOS) and can be installed and used just like any other
    native programs. But FontForge is a Unix application, which means you need some
    Unix knowledge even if you are running it in your Windows environment under Cygwin
    (I suppose the same would be true for most X11 applications under MacOS). Nobody
    never promised that installing a Cygwin application would be as easy as a native
    Windows application, but having a Cygwin port is just better than nothing.\r\n\r\nSo
    if you are not prepared to some small difficulties, which, unfortunately, are
    unavoidable when you are running an application written for another platform,
    then, indeed, it is better for you to stick with your favorite software. Otherwise
    I am sure your problem can easily be resolved. But please don't blame something
    you haven't even tried.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-27 14:30:10'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I have used neither. I've only use Fontographer, and ANYTHING has to be better
    than Fontographer.\r\n\r\nI'm about to start getting a bit more serious about
    trying to create some typefaces and I'm likely going to go with Fontforge. Not
    because it's better but because it's open source. \r\n\r\nI've been trying to
    move that way for a while. Use the Gimp as much as I can (though still love Fireworks).
    Learning Inkscape as I go (but holding on tight to Freehand). Etc.\r\n\r\nSo,
    that's just me. I like using Open Source when I can.\r\n\r\nThat said, if I were
    doing this professionally and time was money, then I'd probably break down and
    use both apps as needed. ;o)\r\n\r\nI will say the 'learning fontforge is a waste
    of time' argument is silly. Using software isn't rocket science. What's important
    it to learn what the software DOES, at which point the particular flavor of software
    you are using is rather moot."
  created: '2007-08-27 15:32:48'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "anagnost...thanks for working on FontForge! As a lowly user of open source
    software, I appreciate your efforts!\r\n\r\n\"And now I remember why I don\u2019t
    bother with free software. It\u2019s only free if my time is worth nothing.\"\r\n\r\nI
    think that's MS's memo on the subject, isn't it?\r\n\r\nAs a comparison, we just
    purchased a quarter-million-dollar license for MS Sharepoint here at work.\r\n\r\nDocumentation!?
    Ahahahahahaha!\r\n\r\nSupport? Sure! Just pay us 70k a year! Ahahahahaha!\r\n\r\nPoint
    is that the quality of support for software really has no direct correlation to
    the price (or lack thereof) of the actual software product.\r\n\r\nA lot of open
    source software is a pain to get running. So is a lot of commercial software.
    ;o)\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-27 15:37:51'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>ut FontForge is a Unix application, which means you need some Unix
    knowledge even if you are running it in your Windows environment under Cygwin
    (I suppose the same would be true for most X11 applications under MacOS).</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve
    been running on some variant of UNIX or Linux, from Solaris to OS X, and putting
    up with free software, for most of the last decade. And I don\u2019t deign to
    work on Windows, much less Cygwin. And yeah, I could just try to track down the
    missing library and try to get stuff working, but this sort of stuff is why I
    just stick with commercial software most of the time. I\u2019m sure that Fontforge
    can be a great tool, but I can\u2019t begin to describe how many hundreds of hours
    I have wasted dealing with some little thing here or there when it comes to free
    software, which is why I jumped ship from Linux to OS X and eventually stopped
    using most free software entirely."
  created: '2007-08-27 16:09:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I will say the \u2019learning fontforge is a waste of time\u2019 argument
    is silly. Using software isn\u2019t rocket science. What\u2019s important it to
    learn what the software DOES, at which point the particular flavor of software
    you are using is rather moot.\r\n\r\nAs I made the argument that learning Font
    Forge is a *risk* of wasting time, of course I don't think it is a silly argument.
    If your main interest is in making fonts, not learning software, then you are
    going to want to minimize your time away from design time. Designing fonts is
    extremely time consuming, and for me at least learning FontLab and getting to
    use it with some fluency has also taken time, and I'm still learning. \r\n\r\nFontLab
    is not the most complex application--from what I hear Pro Tools for sound engineering
    is way more complex--but it does take some serious time to get on top of. Given
    the complexity of font technology now, I can't imagine that other options are
    a lot simpler, when you include interpolation tools, including multiple masters,
    as well as spacing, kerning, hinting, and open type programming. \r\n\r\nAlso,
    the idea that what software application you use is just a 'flavor' and 'moot'
    as a general proposition does not seem to me defensible. Publisher and InDesign
    are both page layout programs, but I don't think even MicroSoft would say that
    Publisher is just as good for full-on professional work.  \r\n\r\nI haven't learned
    other font design applications, so I can't compare their merits. But I can report
    that at TypeCon earlier this month there were lots of workshops on FontLab, some
    using the revived Fontographer, and none on Font Forge. I never even heard Font
    Forge mentioned. I wouldn't be surprised if there are zero professional type designers
    who use it, judging by conferences and Typophile discussions. In any case there
    are certainly very few among those doing latin scripts.\r\n\r\nIf Font Forge is
    actually distinctly better, and you can do the same stuff with it, or with it
    plus other usable programs, then it would absolutely be worth learning and using.
    Otherwise, I don't see how it's a good investment of time. \r\n\r\nAs font design
    is very time consuming, if Type Tool and the full Font Lab are actually better
    than Font Forge, then worrying about the $99 seems to me like really false economy.
    I realize that in poor countries this might be a lot of money, and the money might
    be a significant factor. But in rich countries it's not. \r\n\r\nTo me the main
    question is really how good Font Forge is, not the cost of Type Tool. "
  created: '2007-08-27 16:28:16'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"To me the main question is really how good Font Forge is, not the cost
    of Type Tool.\"\r\n\r\nYep, and that's a valid and pragmatic approach.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not saying FontForge is better or worse...just that it's not necessarily a waste
    of time. Just learning Fontographer taught me specifics about font creation that
    I can apply to any other font creation software.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I'm just trying
    to wean myself from total dependence on Adobe. That's just a personal thing, more
    than anything. ;o)"
  created: '2007-08-27 17:58:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">wean myself from total dependence on Adobe\r\n\r\nJust to avoid confusion:
    none of the available font drawing applications is owned by Adobe. Adobe's FDKO
    set of utilities for font development is free. "
  created: '2007-08-27 21:00:31'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Just to avoid confusion: none of the available font drawing applications
    is owned by Adobe.\"\r\n\r\nUnderstood...just saying why I like to try opensource
    when I can as 90% of a visual designers toolbox these days is owned by Adobe."
  created: '2007-08-27 21:21:01'
- author:
    name: anagnost
    picture: 112746
  body: "> If Font Forge is actually distinctly better, and you can do the same \r\n>
    stuff with it, or with it plus other usable programs, then it would \r\n> absolutely
    be worth learning and using.\r\n\r\nWilliam,\r\n\r\nI appreciate this approach
    very much. What I really don't like is arguments like \"nobody uses it\" or \"it's
    an esoteric open source software\". You should try it before criticizing it. Or
    just browse the online documentation at [[http://fontforge.sourceforge.net/overview.html]]
    and see how powerful FontForge is.\r\n\r\nAnd yes, I can easily believe no professional
    designers are using FontForge, but this proves nothing for me. There are several
    known reasons (I would not like to discuss them here) for which most folks concerned
    with graphics and design are not familiar with Unix and Unix software. I also
    think the problem with TTF instructions I have mentioned previously could affect
    FontForge's popularity too: of course it would be not a real problem for those
    who have access to VTT, but... there are so many \"professional\" designers who
    prefer just to export an autohinted font and then claim their production is perfectly
    hinted. Unfortunately, this is impossible with FontForge (but probably will be
    possible soon).\r\n\r\nAnd, finally, there are very few real professionals in
    font design anyway (I believe most of them can be found at this forum). I know
    enough  font foundries which promote themselves as \"professional\" but actually
    sell so poorly designed amateurish fonts, that the fact they use FontLab really
    doesn't matter. On the other hand, I can list several open source font projects
    implemented at a high professional level (my favorite is the [[http://junicode.sourceforge.net|Junicode]]
    font) which use FontForge. I think their designers can be considered real professionals,
    even if font design is not their main business.\r\n\r\nYou can have a look also
    at my own [[http://www.thessalonica.org.ru/en/fonts.html|Old Standard]] font.
    If it has any flaws (and of course it does), FontForge is surely not responsible
    for them.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-27 23:27:54'
- author:
    name: Steve Tiano
  body: "Well, I am by no means a techie. And I found that once someone told me in
    two or three straight declarative sentences how to get X11 off the systems disk,
    I had no problem installing it on my G5 PowerMac. And FontForge downloaded and
    installed easily.\r\n\r\nI can see where this discussion's gone already, so I
    hesitate because I don't want to start a whole platforms war. I just want to say
    that, in my experience--as a non-techie--that's why Macintosh rocks and has been
    my choice 17 years: it's easy to get going and just start learning how to do the
    work you want to do. Rather than learning how to use the computer, and install
    and configure jazz. I know the Windows machines at my day job are constantly down
    or slowing down--even just for minutes can be a drastic inconvenience.\r\n\r\nThat
    said, since this is simply a long-term project and book design/layout is really
    my work, I gues FontForge is definitely a reasonable choice for me at this stage."
  created: '2007-08-28 00:25:13'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "William points out above that FontLab is NOT owned or distributed by Adobe.
    I use Adobe products every day, but part of me can understand why some designers
    might want to \"diversify\" their software portfolio, so to speak, and use products
    from other companies. No problems there.\r\n\r\nWhat makes me wary about a lot
    of OpenSource-talk is the \"values\" that are often implicit, and which are so
    often brought up. Values? I guess that I just have different values.\r\n\r\nFontLab
    is a small company. I don't know how many employees it currently has, but I'm
    thinking 10\u201315, tops. And that is spread across multiple countries and continents.
    I don't think more than a few ever work in the same room.\r\n\r\nFontLab, and
    other companies like it (inclucing many in the type design industry), IS the little
    guy. They are the people on the forefront bringing technology forward, and trying
    to make a living from it, too. I think that that is worth supporting. Here is
    why my values come into play ;-) \r\n\r\nPersonally, I think that it is more worthwhile
    to support these 10\u201315 guys spending their working careers trying to make
    a great product than to support some vague, hobby-level \"opens ource\" movement.
    Especially if I'm making a living using these products."
  created: '2007-08-28 08:15:07'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Yea, I understand FontLab isn't adobe and have nothing against FontLab. They
    seem like a great company and would say that supporting them is likely a good
    thing. \r\n\r\nJust saying that I like to try to use Open Source when I can...even
    when it has to be alongside its commercial brethren for the time being.\r\n\r\n\"Values?\"\r\n\r\nI
    think the main value I subscribe to is just diversity. It's good to keep alternatives
    alive out there.\r\n\r\n\"Personally, I think that it is more worthwhile to support
    these 10\u201315 guys spending their working careers trying to make a great product
    than to support some vague, hobby-level \u201Copens ource\u201D movement.\"\r\n\r\nPersonally,
    I think it's important to support both."
  created: '2007-08-28 16:34:36'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "'[\u2026]But I can report that at TypeCon earlier this month there were lots
    of workshops on FontLab, some using the revived Fontographer, and none on Font
    Forge [\u2026]'\r\n\r\nThe fact that an application is the choice of the majority
    does not per definition proof that it is the best tool for every purpose. For
    instance Windows is also the choice of the majority, but the operating system
    does not seem to be very popular in general on this forum (which as such is interesting,
    if only because of the fact, that the Windows platform represents the largest
    market for font producers and besides that, Microsoft has done a lot for both
    font technology development and the font community in general [like sponsoring
    events]).\r\n\r\nI don't know if DTL FontMaster was mentioned at TypeCon, but
    presumably not. That does not mean that it is not a good, or perhaps for certain
    tasks even better and more powerful font production tool than any other available
    on the market. FM was simply not developed for the 'mass market' (nor is our organization
    very much suited for extensive [low level] customer support). \r\nI don't expect
    our customers to attend workshops either; the most work on a large scale and are
    very capable of solving or circumventing inevitable font production related problems
    themselves. But sometimes even FM users come to us with unexpected problems, like
    for instance recently with a request for support for glyphs with higher Unicodes,
    i.e. not in the BMP, which was added subsequently to the program then.\r\n\r\nIf
    one wants to judge a font production tool, in my opinion at least two parts of
    the production have to be separated: first, the conversion from design into outlines
    and second, the conversion from the outlines into font formats (for a more detailed
    separation see: http://www.fontmaster.nl/pdf/FM_docs/Automating%20using%20FM.pdf\r\nConcerning
    the first part generally a couple of Bezier editors are comparable when it comes
    to functionality (although not in detail, of course), but when it comes for instance
    to manually digitizing this functionality is only supported by DTL IkarusMaster.
    \r\nThe generated font formats must be reliable, according to the specs and the
    results reproducible. Concerning the latter, because OpenType layout features
    files can be used in batch in FM, all GSUB features supported by the AFDKO will
    be added automatically to every font that has applicable characters. This way
    it is not only unnecessary to do the same work for all the 'common' GSUB stuff,
    but it also assures consistency throughout a library (which is important for the
    success of the OpenType format itself). It actually does not make much sense to
    me to do this per font.\r\n\r\nBy the way, I don't think that the platform on
    which an application is running, should be an issue; if only for the customer
    support for the generated fonts one must have knowledge of and control over at
    least the mainstream operating systems and applications anyway.\r\n\r\nThe Ikarus
    based file structure of FM was developed for batching (I will show this in detail
    at the ATypI TypeTech Forum at Brighton). For the most needed functionality, like
    merging glyph data, generating composites, checking glyph data, generating fonts,
    et cetera, extensive batch functionality is built-in and mostly controlled by
    simple command files. \r\nIf one wants to make full use of this batch power, for
    instance for generating all current font formats for all typefaces in a library
    in all applicable code pages at once with the call of just a single command file,
    some reading and good organizing is necessary. But not everybody wants to draw
    letters on paper and subsequently manually digitize these, or needs the batch
    power, or want to spent more money on a font production tool, or likes a modular
    structure, or is willing to use a tool that is not the choice of many colleagues
    (which means less direct assistance from others in the field, or perhaps even
    no workshops at for instance TypeCon [although this can be organized on request,
    I reckon]).\r\nOthers only want to work with apps for Mac OS X, or want to add
    more or less comparable batch functionality themselves through Python scripting,
    because it fits their purposes better or perhaps because they just simply like
    to do it. Maybe some will wait for certain already available technology to appear
    in some way in their favourite application(s). And there will be probably plenty
    of other rational and irrational reasons and explanations for the use of certain
    tools.\r\n\r\nIn short, it is a relatively small but complex, diverse and interesting
    market for font production tools. Objective judgement of the offered technology
    looks even more complex.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-28 20:52:27'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "One thing that constantly nags me is the design environment itself in Typetool/Fontlab.
    Some people complain about the use of the tools themselves if they come from an
    Illustrator background, but I'd honestly rather have the <em>look</em> be more
    similar.\r\n\r\nThe handles and all the little controls and everything just seem
    too small. I can't seem to see exactly what is happening all the time because
    the controls are too small. I honestly like the \"feel\" of FontForge for drawing
    glyphs if only because it's easier to see what I'm doing.\r\n\r\nAnd I'm not blind,
    by the way, I just want to see what I'm doing better."
  created: '2007-08-28 21:14:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I just want to see what I\u2019m doing better.\r\n\r\nIn FontLab you can
    make the size of nodes big or small, colored or black & white. Go to Tools/Options/Glyph
    Window/Appearance and check or uncheck the appropriate boxes.\r\n\r\nWith all
    due respect, when you tell me you prefer FontForge, but don't know the FontLab
    interface, I am not moved to try FontForge. When I hear of experienced type designers
    singing the praises of Font Forge, I will start to take notice. Personally I am
    skeptical that FontForge can be that good without a base of professional type
    designers interacting with it, and the programmers to respond. But I'd be glad
    to hear more.  \r\n\r\nMr. Blokland: \r\nI didn't mention FontMaster as this thread
    was started by a question whether to use to use a free program, rather than TypeTool,
    which only costs $99 US. FontMaster Utilities are considerably more expensive
    than the full FontLab. And from the description on your site--and here--they have
    seemed to be targeted more to foundries than individual type designers.  \r\n\r\nI
    have heard about the FontMaster utilities, but not a lot. It was mentioned here
    on Typophile that Miguel Sousa at Adobe was impressed by the Kern Master. And
    the very high quality of DTL fonts of course speaks well for the tools. I don't
    think many people have seen your tools demonstrated, so I would think for most
    they are a question mark."
  created: '2007-08-29 03:02:07'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Steve Tiano: in answer to your original question, yes, FontForge is a perfectly
    viable tool. I use it along with my own Spiro tools for the fonts I create. But
    I'm very strange: to me, reading the code and understanding the way the geometry
    happens under the hood is very important. I'm also quite capable of fixing things
    myself when they're broken, and indeed have sent patches back to George.\r\n\r\nIt's
    also more than a bit frustrating and maddening. The UI is by no means up to the
    standards of modern apps, even other free software ones. Do not generalize from
    FontForge to the rest of the free software world. For some things, such as production
    operating system kernels and compilers, the open source products leave their proprietary
    competitors in the dust. In other categories (databases, for example), open source
    has staked out the low end (MySQL, Postgres), while leaving only the very high-dollar
    end (Oracle) to the proprietary players. The font software business is totally
    different because the market is so small. There just isn't a large population
    of people who both care about the quality of the tool and are able to make big
    improvements to it. Unlike, as I've mentioned, the situation with compilers.\r\n\r\nBut
    I find myself agreeing strongly with the main point I see articulated on the thread.
    What's really valuable to the type community is diversity. A few years ago, it
    wasn't clear there would be <em>any</em> viable font editing programs. Now even
    the venerable Fontographer is back, and people who do prefer free software for
    whatever reason also have a usable tool. People on the high end can use the IkarusMaster
    and family. This is all good. If I were setting out to make a living being a professional
    font designer and nothing else, I would no doubt just go with FontLab and be happy
    with it.\r\n\r\nIt will be interesting to see which, if any, of the major font
    platforms have the flexibility to adopt the Spiro technology, which is another
    good test of responsiveness. I have no time right now due to personal stuff (I
    got to spend three hours today with a lawyer, yay), but when I do get time again,
    I'm going to try to get it out there as a Web app, which may turn out to be an
    important ecological niche. (also, whether a new program succeeds in that niche
    probably depends more on how important web collaboration turns out to be, and
    whether the program is well done, much more so than whether it's based on fresh
    or stale technology, but in any case it ought to be fun to do.)\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-29 05:19:38'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Hello William -- <cite>FontMaster Utilities are considerably more expensive
    than the full FontLab. And from the description on your site\u2014and here\u2014they
    have seemed to be targeted more to foundries than individual type designers.</cite>\r\n<cite>I
    don\u2019t think many people have seen your tools demonstrated, so I would think
    for most they are a question mark.</cite>\r\n\r\nSince the original question was
    about an inexpensive tool for the first steps into type design, the answer may
    be TypeTool or FontForge. (I never used FontForge because it requires X11.) For
    the beginning, I think, the simpler the font editor is, the better. This allows
    to focus on the essence of what, referring to the technical side, a font is: (a)
    a collection of glyphs (b) that have space to the left and right side and (c)
    possibly may be kerned.\r\n\r\nAs regards FontMaster: Today one doesn't need the
    entire FM suite to generate font but can do this e.g. with the BezierMaster module,
    which is about the same price as, or less than, FLS.\r\nYet the interesting thing
    about FM of course is batch font generation and the way it deals with OT features.
    This may not be required for single style fonts, not even for four-style families,
    but as soon as just a few more weights are involved, it can save time and trouble
    since one doesn't have to care for every technical setting in every single font.
    (See the other thread about the horror story cause of a missing hyphen in one
    style's font name.) I touch a few similarities/differences between FLS and FM
    <a href=\"http://www.kltf.de/kltf_notes_concept1.htm\">here</a>.\r\n\r\nAs regards
    other aspects touched in this thread:\r\n\r\nAs said earlier, FLS's popularity
    has the effect that people can easily exchange data or tools, and people can help
    each other. However: All font editors allow to import/export PST1 (or even OT)
    fonts. So no font editor is an island. \r\n\r\nI see two important factors:\r\n(1)
    The designer must feel comfortable with the drawing tools since she/he spends
    a lot of time with them.\r\n(2) What matters in the long run are the OTF/TTF files
    which are finally produced.\r\n\r\nWhen drawing, use whatever tool you like, can
    afford, etc.\r\nProduction is another issue. You can use any of the mentioned
    font editors to produce fonts. Some examples: FLS only. FLS + AFDKO2, in case
    you plan to do things that the older AFDKO-version does not support. TypeTool/FontForge
    + AFDKO, as the least expensive combination. And why not draw in FLS, TypeTool,
    FontForge and produce with FM, or draw in FM and produce with FLS? Whatever gives
    the desired results.\r\nWhen producing fonts, you'll sooner or later change the
    point of view anyway. You will not ask any more whether it's better to check this
    or that box in the FLS or FM interface but make up you mind about how the font
    file and its tables shall look like and wonder, how can I achieve this with the
    tools at hand? And then it ceases to be an either-or and will turn into a both-and
    as regards choice of tools. For example, currently my fonts consist of some tables
    generated by FLS, others generated by AFDKO2, plus additional table tweaks done
    with FontTools/TTX.\r\n\r\nAs an aside, even unconventional combinations are possible.
    InDesign is a good kerning interface, and FontLab Studio and KernMaster work together
    nicely.\r\n\r\nKarsten\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-29 14:26:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks a lot, Raph and Karsten, that sheds a lot of light on the subject.
    \r\n\r\n>It\u2019s also more than a bit frustrating and maddening. The UI is by
    no means up to the standards of modern apps, even other free software ones. \r\n\r\nRaph's
    view here I think confirms that for a beginner the $99 for TypeTool is a better
    option than Font Forge, unless you are a programmer or the price is prohibitive.\r\n\r\nOn
    the Pro end, my impression is that many, like Karsten, use multiple tools to produce
    their fonts."
  created: '2007-08-29 15:33:59'
- author:
    name: anagnost
    picture: 112746
  body: "William,\r\n\r\nwhat exactly in Raph's comment convinces you to think so?
    The only negative moment he seems to stress is the fact that FontForge's UI doesn't
    correspond to the standards of modern apps. Well, I would call this rather an
    advantage. I never could understand why MS and other large software developers
    (even open source developers) change the UI of their applications in each new
    release, although an ideal of good appearance was already achieved in early nineties.
    For me old style interfaces (like in MS Office 95 or in some old Motif-based applications
    for Unix) look much more solid and elegant. And indeed I like traditional FontForge's
    UI very much."
  created: '2007-08-29 15:56:29'
- author:
    name: typovar
    picture: 111800
  body: "My experience with FontForge is positive. I suggested a simple improvement
    in the UI and within a few days it was solved. There is a lot of tech-talk in
    the mailinglists, but if you want some special feature added to the programm,
    it is possible.\r\nI'm no programmer, but being able to look underneath gives
    me a feeling of \u201Ckeeping in controll\u201D."
  created: '2007-08-29 16:54:18'
- author:
    name: Steve Tiano
  body: "Well, I again need to thank yo folks for some enlightening discussion. Believe
    it or not--partly due to being quite busy; unfortunately, not all of it busy-ness
    connected to making books--although FontForge is now safely installed and opens
    just fine, I haven't even had the time to do a tutorial with it. I am beginning
    to get some sense of the sketches I'd like to start making of letterforms.\r\n\r\nWould
    it be advisable to begin sketching on paper or just start up FontForge for a tutorial
    and see where it takes me? Or should I do some sketching in, say, Adobe Illustrator?"
  created: '2007-08-29 23:04:13'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Definitely sketch it out on paper. \r\nMany designers do start drawing directly
    in the font design programs, but sometimes those results can wind up looking overly
    mechanical unless substantial care is taken (see some of my own early works).\r\nReally,
    though do whatever you're comfortable with.\r\n\r\n[[http://briem.ismennt.is/index.htm|Gunnlaugur
    SE Briem]] has some handy notes on type design, including workflow and tracing
    sketches, none of which are tied to any particular platform (except maybe the
    bits about autotracing).."
  created: '2007-08-29 23:23:34'
- author:
    name: typovar
    picture: 111800
  body: "What would you like to do first?\r\nLearn how to use FontForge or create
    a typeface?\r\n\r\nMaybe start up FontForge and try it, is a reasonable thing
    to do if you want to learn how it works. Once you get an idea of it, you could
    start creating something new. Then starting with sketching on paper is the best
    to start with.\r\n\r\nIt all depends on 'what you want'."
  created: '2007-08-30 08:07:58'
- author:
    name: Daniel Denk
    picture: 112599
  body: "The sole problem with Open Source, has always been that the only software
    that is truly embraced -- is the software that has the most thriving and active
    community.\r\n\r\nIn regards to commercial font creation tools -- there are really
    only two company options available that are worth considering.:\r\n\r\n- FontLab\r\n-
    Font Editor\r\n\r\nFontLab has a more robust mindset in the professional paradigm,
    and taking over FOG was a good move. BUT - being a Windows user, I am still a
    little miffed that there hasn't been a priority placed on getting the memory architecture
    upgraded and patched for Windows.\r\n\r\nFont Editor reminds me more of Macromedia
    when they started-out years ago. Macromedia were always the kid on the block that
    understood community support and the value in providing useful and educative resources
    to their users. Unfortunately, when Adobe took them over, some of that approach
    was washed in with the mix and degraded a little bit.\r\n\r\nLook. The main issue
    here regarding any platform are two things, really.\r\n\r\n1) Cost\r\n2) Trainability\r\n\r\nIf
    you can't afford it -- chances are, you'll look at something else. If you can't
    train on it, or train someone within your organization -- chances are, you'll
    look at something else.\r\n\r\nThose are the only two entities that I see having
    both those factors in mind -- though, FontLab is the higher priced option.\r\n\r\nPersonally,
    I think if Open Type were finally treated as the default standard for once, instead
    of tiering the approach and restricting between apps (TypeTool and ScanFont vs.
    FontLab, etc) -- then FontLab would have no problem creating more buyers. But,
    that's just my opinion.\r\n\r\nPS:\r\nI'm still not willing to get out of my beloved
    FOG just yet. I would just like to see them update it to standards, and include
    Open Type support.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-31 07:43:47'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "<em>a font is: (a) a collection of glyphs (b) that have space to the left
    and right side and (c) possibly may be kerned.</em>\r\nI wish it was this easy:)
    But for the beginner, I'm compelled to 1/2 agree. Point out the \"Y\" issues for
    his beginning, and I'll fully agree.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-08-31 21:18:17'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Daniel, \r\n\r\nwhat is \"Font Editor\"? \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-08-31 23:04:12'
- author:
    name: typovar
    picture: 111800
  body: "Font Editor:\r\n<cite>[[http://fonteditor.org/|Font Editor]] Pure Java font
    rendering\r\nWe are building a pure Java\u2122 font-rendering technology - targetted
    at J2ME, Personal Java and Java 1.1 environments.\r\n\r\nThis supports anti-aliasing,
    hinting, kerning, background blending, variable-strength emboldening, italicising
    and condensing - and will allow access to a range of TrueType\u2122 fonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nThere's
    also [[http://www.high-logic.com/fontcreator.html|High Logic's FontCreator]].
    It's also affordable but there's no information on OpenType features."
  created: '2007-09-01 11:35:19'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Font Creator would be a lot more useful if it ran on Macs. Windows-only software
    isn\u2019t especially useful in the design world."
  created: '2007-09-01 18:12:02'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Now, correct me if I'm wrong, but wouldn't Python, rather than Java, be a
    better platform independent language to build from due to the already available
    scripting code such as FOG? I mean, if you're going to start from scratch with
    the code, you might as well use what little is available already that is a)open
    and b)professional, am I correct?\r\n\r\nI'm not a programmer at all, but that's
    what my impression is. I was told if I want to learn a programming language from
    scratch, I should start with Python because is it relatively easier to develop,
    but also scales well. "
  created: '2007-09-02 07:41:37'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Disclaimer: I'm not a programmer. But I am product manager for a bunch of
    stuff that includes a number of applications, tools and libraries of code.\r\n\r\nThat
    being said, I gather there are many things to love about Python, but at least
    some kinds of operations are realtively slow in Python, in ways that become apparent
    when one attempts very complex operations.\r\n\r\nI'm watching a large Python
    library get rewritten in C++ because of the ~100x performance improvement in certain
    key areas involving I/O. So, \"scales well\" is not something that I'd immediately
    ascribe to Python. I strongly suspect there are significant performance-related
    reasons why an application like FontLab is unlikely to be done in Python.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-09-05 03:45:50'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>what is \u201CFont Editor\u201D?</cite>\r\n\r\nYeah, what is this thing?
    On my Mac, it simply doesn't work. If the UI functioned as advertised (it does
    not) it would still be of little value. In my experience a lot of Java(tm) applications
    are not platform independent, if only because they are not tested on all platforms.
    It's hard to tell if it's a fake/stub app. or if it actually will function.\r\n\r\nI'm
    sorry if this is off-topic, maybe this deserves it's own thread. "
  created: '2007-09-05 05:31:12'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Thomas: I <em>am</em> a programmer, and if I were doing a font editor as
    a traditional desktop app, Python is very likely the language I would use.\r\n\r\nYes,
    it's slow for some things, but for this application there are a number of factors
    to mitigate that. First, font editing doesn't require a tremendous amount of actual
    computation, nor the movement of huge amounts of data. Heck, if Fontographer could
    work on the 8 MHz Macintosh Plus of 1986 (the year of its first release), even
    a 100x slowdown would still be reasonable on modern hardware.\r\n\r\nFortunately,
    the situation is better than that. If you can get the heavy lifting to happen
    in libraries, it's full speed. The antialiased vector graphic rendering should
    be done in a cross-platform library such as Cairo, or in the native graphics engine
    of the OS, such as Quartz. (One frustration for me is that the comparable bindings
    to the native graphics library aren't as mature on the Windows side as on Linux
    and Mac, but with luck that situation will improve). Some numeric computation,
    especially when dealing with vectors and matrices, can also be shuffled into NumPy
    or SciPy, which are every bit the match for handrolled C++ code.\r\n\r\nIt's even
    possible, though still somewhat cutting edge, to run Python code in the browser.
    Within the Microsoft world, there's IronPython, which should run inside Silverlight.
    On the free software side, it's possible that integrating Mono with a browser
    should provide similar functionality. But none of that stuff is quite ready for
    prime time yet, so I'm doing my Spiro stuff in straight JavaScript (which actually
    isn't all that different from Python, as a language).\r\n\r\nI think it's fair
    to say that Python scales well compared with other scripting languages, but if
    you're writing hardcore systems-level apps, none of the scripting langauges scale
    anywhere nearly as well as C or C++. Java is somewhere in the middle of that,
    and has carved out a good niche for server-side stuff, partly because it supports
    threading natively. But none of its strengths apply very well to the specific
    task of font editing. In fact, I don't see anybody in their right mind doing real
    client side or browser-centric development in Java these days.\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-05 06:51:01'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "I'd like to say few words about some other font tools that weren't mentoined
    in this discussion.\r\n\r\n- RoboFab. It is a set of Python libraries and tools
    and you have to know how to use it, but it can actually create a very powerful
    and flexible font production environment (used with FLS or without it).\r\n- Superpolator.
    A tool that nobody should miss if ever working on the font family.\r\n- MetricsMachine.
    Simply the best tool to edit font metrics. \r\n- ScanFont. Not just a \"tracing\"
    tool but a very good in converting fonts made as EPS files into real stuff. So
    draw anywhere, get your font build as a collection of outlines (in a single picture)
    of any size and convert it into font in few clicks.\r\n\r\nNot all of these tools
    are already released (for both platforms) but it could be a good idea to find
    a way to try them."
  created: '2007-09-05 08:53:24'
- author:
    name: Steve Tiano
  body: Does it reach a point where the wheel is being reinvented with all these other
    pieces of software entering the fray? I mean, even I have to admit, if I were
    to get heavily involved in what is now just an "exploration," I think I'd have
    to move over to FontLab Studio, ultimately, because Font Forge does not give you
    Open Type. And, surely, that's where a viable commercial font needs to be from
    the start nowadays. Or am I incorrect on this?
  created: '2007-09-05 09:58:13'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I think FontForge does opentype. But, then again, if you're at the point
    where you think your face is ready to be moved into a commercial product, just
    grab FontLab at that point, import your work and finish the OpenType version there.\r\n\r\nYuri...thanks
    for the info on all those tools!"
  created: '2007-09-05 14:40:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Yuri, thanks for coming on to comment. \r\n\r\nI am interested in Superpolator,
    which I have also heard highly praised elsewhere. How do its capacities compare
    to the Multiple Masters functionality? Does each do something the other doesn't,
    or does Superpolator do everything that Multiple Masters does and more?  "
  created: '2007-09-05 15:02:27'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: 'William, have you seen this: http://superpolator.com/ ?'
  created: '2007-09-05 15:22:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Yes, but I didn't see a direct comparison with Multiple Masters. \r\n\r\nI
    haven't yet worked with either, but I soon will need to. I am looking for simple
    answers to the questions: what are examples of what superpolater can do that Multimaster
    can't? And visa versa? How easy is it to use one verses the other?"
  created: '2007-09-05 15:30:22'
- author:
    name: anagnost
    picture: 112746
  body: As I have already stated, FontForge actually does much more of OpenType than
    FontLab or AFDKO. It may be comparable only with VOLT, but, unlike VOLT, supports
    both TrueType and OpenType-CFF fonts.
  created: '2007-09-05 19:49:09'
- author:
    name: vanblokland
    picture: 110442
  body: "William:\r\n\r\nSuperpolator vs Multiple Master - in short, Superpolator
    can take any number of masters on an axis, have any number of axes and place masters
    at off-axis places. While it won't magically reduce the number of drawings, it
    allows you to construct different \"design spaces\". For instance 6 masters total,
    Light, Medium, Black, and then condensed versions each. Any construction -- 9
    masters on 3 axes, 4 masters on 1 axis, whatever your design needs. It can recreate
    any MM design space and then some. Glyph specific masters - you can insert a master
    for a single glyph if you have to. Superpolator uses the same math as GX variations.
    Previews, animations, export to pdf.\r\n\r\nMultiple master is fixed on 2 master/1
    axis, 4 master/2 axes, 8 master/3 axes and I believe even a 16 master/4 axes setup.
    If your design happens to match that, great. Usually things aren't so neat and
    need intermediates, fixes for specific glyphs, lots of previewing. In Multiple
    Master, to get the \"middle\" right, the weights that stand to be used most often
    (most often anyway) you have to work through the extremes. You can't edit the
    \"regular\", you have to tweak the light and the black to change the middle -
    this forces the extremes to be a lot less extreme. With Superpolator you could
    set up light/regular/black on a weight axis. While this means one more master
    to draw, it's right down to business. The extremes can be more extreme.\r\n\r\nSuperpolator
    runs on OSX, is written in Python, and is plenty fast ;) But a lot of people do
    great work with MM as well. Whatever makes your designs tick.\r\n\r\nIf you need
    more info, I have some keynote slides I can send.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-05 20:24:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks for coming on the thread to explain your product. \r\n\r\nThe fact
    that Superpolator gives more flexibility than Multiple Masters in doing and modifying
    the middle and more extreme weights has sold me on it. \r\n\r\nI've already done
    the middles on three optical sizes, as these are the most important, and some
    heavier and lighter weights, with more to come. It sounds like it will be be extremely
    helpful as I go forward on the project. \r\n\r\nIn fact, it even sounds a little
    fun :) "
  created: '2007-09-05 21:04:51'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Urm, almost all of what Erik van Blokland ascribes to being the limitations
    of multiple master fonts are in fact limitations of the existing *font editing
    tools* implementation of multiple master fonts. Adobe actually shipped multiple
    master fonts with intermediate masters (Adobe Jenson), warped design spaces (Kepler
    MM) and transitional masters for specific glyphs (ITC Garamond MM). I've even
    seen an experimental 15-axis MM font with one master plus one master per axis
    - having masters at corners is not a requirement of the format.\r\n\r\nI have
    no idea how obvious all this was in the published MM specs, but that's kind of
    a moot point, as the MM format is all but dead for end users. Apps can more easily
    implement whatever the heck they want as far as how they support design axes,
    if they don't worry about exporting the result in an MM font. I dearly wish FontLab
    would sprout more Superpolator-like features in version 6.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-09-06 05:00:40'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "I agree with Thomas. Technical implementation of MM technology in first spec
    of the CFF/T2 format (outline part of the OT/PS format) was really powerful and
    flexible, *technically* allowing most of the features you can now find in Superpolator.
    \r\n\r\nHowever, Superpolator is not only a very good font blending machine, it
    also provides great UI to deal with masters. Highly recommended!"
  created: '2007-09-06 07:33:50'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Erik, a case study would be very helpful. I would be more impressed to see
    what it <cite>has done</cite> rather than to hear what it <cite>could do</cite>.\r\n\r\nIs
    there any type family out there where Superpolator has played a significant role
    in the design/production? If so, you could write a bit of text with images that
    demonstrates how Superpolator has saved time (or even improved the final result).
    For me, that would be more convincing than coloured diagrams.\r\n\r\n[edit: just
    spotted the reference to Amalia. It would be interesting to know exactly how Superpolator
    was used in its making.]"
  created: '2007-09-06 10:22:47'
- author:
    name: ultrasparky
    picture: 109750
  body: Christian Schwartz was praising Superpolator when he spoke at TypoTechnica
    back in the Spring. I think he used it for the Guardian fonts.
  created: '2007-09-06 10:54:27'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Christian Schwartz talked about Superpolator during his keynote address at
    TypoTechnica. I don't know how involved it is in his workflow, though.
  created: '2007-09-06 10:54:28'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: Damn, looks like I missed something interesting there!
  created: '2007-09-06 13:20:06'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Double Damn\u2026 Dan & Dan cross-post. Tim, I guess you could just e-mail
    him."
  created: '2007-09-06 13:48:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Christian Schwartz was praising Superpolator when he spoke at TypoTechnica
    back in the Spring. I think he used it for the Guardian fonts.\r\n\r\nIn his talk
    at the TDC in spring, in answer to a question Christian said he used RoboFab (or
    was it RoboFog?) for the many weights of the Guardian fonts, but would use this
    great new tool Superpolator in the future. So I assume he is using it on current
    projects. "
  created: '2007-09-06 14:41:25'
- author:
    name: mrschwartz
  body: "Tim, Dan & Dan-\r\n\r\nI wish we had been able to use Superpolator for the
    Guardian project, but I've only been working with it since December 2006, long
    after that project was delivered. I'm already at the point where I can't live
    without it, though. I use it for two main things: the first is rapid prototyping,
    i.e. taking Headline Regular, Headline Bold, and Text Regular, then extrapolating
    Text Bold. Not so glamorous, but this was the only way we could have met the almost-impossible
    deadline for the family we drew for <cite>P\xFAblico</cite> in Portugal. The extrapolated
    Text Bold wasn't perfect, but it was certainly good enough for our clients to
    use in prototype pages and even a press test to determine if it worked for emphasis
    in running text. I will often set up separate axes for different aspects of a
    family - weight, ascender length, ball terminal size, whatever - and adjust the
    whole family as needed. If I have a Regular weight with long and short extenders,
    I can apply the axis to lighter and heavier weights as well. It's very handy.
    Besides Publico, I've used these tools for prototyping styles for the serif face
    that Paul Barnes started and we finished together for <cite>Cond\xE9 Nast Portfolio</cite>
    magazine, plus the sans I drew for the same publication, the optical sizes of
    Giorgio, an additional style of Bosch Serif, and various other projects. It took
    some time to get used to drawing in a way that yields more usable extrapolations
    without making the poles bland or unattractive, but I'm slowly getting there.\r\n\r\nThe
    other thing I use Superpolator for is keeping track of intermediates as I work
    on a family. I never worked in MM because I tend to work from the middle out,
    as you've discussed a little bit here, so I would have to keep separate notes
    on all of the interpolation values and then reinterpolate each style by hand each
    time I made a round of corrections to one or more of the poles. This was fine
    for a small family, but a nightmare for a family like Amplitude, with 3 masters
    per width, all drawn in Robofog, where interpolating all of the intermediates
    could easily eat an entire afternoon. With Superpolator, any time I change a master,
    the change is seamlessly propagated through all intermediate styles. This was
    a huge help with Publico, Meta Serif, and some projects that I'm working on right
    now. I can also add intermediate masters late in the process, based on the interpolations,
    so I can fix specific characters (often sans 'a' 'e' 'g' and 's'), and these changes
    instantly affect the styles around them. This was a huge help with both of the
    families we drew for <cite>Portfolio</cite>, because they covered a lot of ground
    from light to heavy.\r\n\r\nSuperpolator's precision makes it a great tool for
    a production environment, but I also find it really fun to use - especially dragging
    sliders to make morbidly obese extrapolations."
  created: '2007-09-06 15:19:37'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Thanks for the detailed explanation, Christian!\r\n\r\nIt seems that essentially,
    Superpolator is taking FontLab's Make Master function (which is actually vector
    addition) to new levels. Sounds great, because Make Master is not very intuitive
    and not so convenient if you are working on more than one axis."
  created: '2007-09-06 16:08:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Superpolator\u2019s precision makes it a great tool for a production environment,
    but I also find it really fun to use - especially dragging sliders to make morbidly
    obese extrapolations.\"\r\n\r\nCan I get one ofthose for Christmas?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-07 15:42:29'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "<em>morbidly obese extrapolations</em>\r\n\r\nIt's glandular!"
  created: '2007-09-08 16:52:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Like putting your thigh on roids, eh Steve? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-08 17:50:55'
- author:
    name: bxfl
  body: What does "extrema" refer to?
  created: '2007-10-26 18:15:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Extrema is the furthest protruding point of a curve which is ninety degrees
    from the vertical or horizontal.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-10-26 18:34:21'
- author:
    name: bxfl
  body: Is there a visual you can post for this? Hard time grasping it from that description
  created: '2007-10-26 18:42:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The red arrows point to extrema points of this curve. The green dots are
    points on the curve but many do not coincide with extrema. A well drawn curve
    would have a point at each extrema of the curve--unlike this one.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/extrema_5707.png]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-10-26 19:28:31'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: Now, that's a morbidly obese blob.
  created: '2007-10-26 19:32:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It takes one to node one :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-10-26 20:14:02'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Oh my - <em>morbidly obese extrapolations</em> - that's some funny stuff.
    :D\r\n\r\nI like morbidly obese typefaces."
  created: '2007-10-29 01:00:22'
- author:
    name: nyomdasz
    picture: 114472
  body: "Does anyone know how to change to quadratic B\xE9ziers in font forge?\r\n\r\nI
    think it is a closely-held secret.\r\n\r\nnyomdasz@yahoo.com"
  created: '2008-03-07 05:33:16'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "You got your answer in the thread in General discussions, but here it is
    again for sake of completeness:\r\n\r\nhow to change to quadratic B\xE9ziers?\r\n\r\nElement
    > Font Info... > General > Quadratic Splines"
  created: '2008-03-07 08:18:02'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: I think this information is clear in the on-line documentation btw.
  created: '2008-03-07 08:23:47'
- author:
    name: anagnost
    picture: 112746
  body: "This answer is a bit outdated, as FontForge now supports a concept of layers
    and the spline order is considered a per-layer property (thus it is now possible
    to store sources for TTF and T1/OTF versions of the same font in the same database).
    So in order to change to quadratic B\xE9ziers in most recent FontForge versions
    one should do the following:\r\n\r\n- go to Element->Font Info->Layers;\r\n- either
    select \"All Layers Quadratic\", or select \"Mixed\" and then adjust curve type
    individually for each layer."
  created: '2008-03-10 13:22:43'
- author:
    name: Mike_U
  body: "Hello,\r\n\r\nI just found this little gem of a forum, and must say, fascinating.\r\n\r\nI
    am not a designer, but I'm interested in typography. I do a lot of web design,
    and, being an academic, have a special relationship to the written (printed) word.\r\n\r\nSo
    I just thought I say hello.\r\n\r\nAnd, right after I stumbled across the site
    yesterday, I 'wasted' an evening [[http://strongblackcoffee.net/2008/04/a-font-in-24hrs.html|to
    create my first font]].\r\n\r\nLooking forward to more typography!\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nMike"
  created: '2008-04-09 10:37:30'
- author:
    name: vga
  body: "Does any of the commercial software support editing the MATH OpenType tables?
    Support was added to fontforge like a year ago [http://fontforge.sourceforge.net/math.html].\r\n\r\nUsing
    this new fontforge feature, Apostolos Syropoulos wrote a free alternative to Cambria
    Math, called Asana Math [http://openfontlibrary.org/media/files/asyropoulos/219],
    officially in \"beta\" stage. It worked as well as Cambria Math in XeTeX (using
    unicode-math), but I haven't tried it in Office 2007. Asana is not entirely new;
    it is based on the TeX math fonts pxfonts, but with a lot of additions.\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-13 11:21:35'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Does any of the commercial software support \r\n> editing the MATH OpenType
    tables? \r\n\r\nAs far as I can tell, FontForge and of course the Microsoft MATH
    table editing tool, available upon request, free of charge, from Microsoft Typography.
    \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-25 02:33:01'
- author:
    name: Bork Baxter
  body: "I've been using FontForge (an old version of it incidentally) for about 2
    years now, and, while I've never used any of the commercial options, I have to
    say that I've thoroughly enjoyed FontForge and never had any problems (I'm on
    a mac).\r\n\r\nThree cheers for open source"
  created: '2009-02-02 06:48:38'
- author:
    name: trinzia
  body: "About FontForge, I read about Cygwin but it says it will change my Windows,
    which doesn't appeal to me since I can barely remember where everything is in
    all my programs as it is now.  So I tried to install andLinux instead, but it
    doesn't function on Win 64-bit.\r\n\r\nIf I draw all my glyphs in Illustrator,
    is there a free program that I can use just to create the OpenType, with kerning
    and ligatures?  \r\n\r\n(It's my first font.) Thanks!\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-01 13:51:18'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: '[[http://typophile.com/node/84219|Yes]]'
  created: '2011-12-01 15:45:45'
- author:
    name: trinzia
  body: "Thanks so much!\r\nI will read all the tutorials at fontforge site now.  It's
    not pasting my imported SVG at baseline zero, so maybe I need to change something
    in my Illustrator file.  Also some weird green arrows appeared, and I'm missing
    Extrema points, but I don't know why that's important.  \r\nDo you recommend any
    3rd party tutorials?\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-01 16:44:00'
- author:
    name: nadavoid
    picture: 124021
  body: "I got fontforge installed on Mac OS X Lion, and wrote up a blog post on how
    I did it.\r\nhttp://www.davidlanier.com/blog/2012/1/how-to-install-fontforge-mac-os-x-lion-homebrew"
  created: '2012-01-02 23:19:47'
- author:
    name: Syrion
  body: "A bit late to the party, but the easiest thing to do for non-technical users
    who want to try FontForge is the following guide. The process is really easy to
    undo (just check the bottom of this post).\r\n\r\nThe following process uses open
    source/free software only and is cross-platform, so both MacOS and Windows users
    can use this guide (things might be a bit different in MacOS, but it should be
    easy to find out yourself).\r\n\r\n<em>Notes:</em>\r\n<ul><li>This guide is written
    with \"absolute beginners\" in mind, power-users can deviate if they know what
    they're doing.</li>\r\n<li>The reason I recommend the Mint-DVD at step 1 is that
    it provides a similar experience to Windows and MacOS out of the box, without
    having to worry about additional libraries later on.</li>\r\n<li>Both VirtualBox
    and Mint have 64-bits flavours.</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nThe steps to take:\r\n\r\n<ol><li>Download
    the <strong>DVD</strong> of Linux Mint at http://www.linuxmint.com/download.php
    (warning: 1 gigabyte!)\r\n\r\n</li><li>Download VirtualBox at https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads\r\n\r\n</li><li>Install
    VirtualBox and run it\r\n\r\n</li><li>Create a new Virtual Machine in the \"Oracle
    VM VirtualBox Manager\"\r\n   <ul><li>Hit the \"New\" button</li>\r\n   <li>Hit
    \"Next\" in the wizard</li>\r\n   <li>The name is up to you, the OS should be
    \"Linux\", the version \"Ubuntu\"</li>\r\n   <li>Since the defaults on the next
    pages are okay: keep hitting \"Next\" until you reach the \"Create\" button, which
    you hit as well to close the wizard.\r\n\r\n</li></ul></li>\r\n<li>If it hasn't
    finished yet: wait for the DVD-download to finish. (No need to burn it!)\r\n\r\n</li><li>Select
    the virtual machine you just created at the left and hit start. A new wizard should
    appear.\r\n\r\n</li><li>Hit \"Next\" and click the folder-image next to the dropdown
    menu. Browse to the downloaded DVD-image and select it. If you did it right, the
    dropdown should display \"linuxmint-*something*.iso\". Hit \"Next\", then \"Start\"
    on the following page.\r\n\r\n</li><li>Wait until things stop moving/counting
    down/polka-dancing and you see a desktop with the icons \"Computer\", \"Home\"
    & \"Install Linux Mint\"\r\n\r\n</li><li>Install Linux. Tutorials on that have
    to be googled, even though it's a fairly straight-forward process, quite possibly
    in your own language as well.\r\n\r\n</li><li>Once it's installed and running:
    in the top left corner you see a menu named \"Applications\". Click it and go
    to \"Other\" -> \"Software Manager\"\r\n\r\n</li><li>Once the manager is usable
    (might take a bit, due to syncing with multiple archives on the net), type \"FontForge\"
    in the searchbox (upper right corner).\r\n</li><li>Click \"FontForge\" once it
    shows up at the results, hit \"Install\" on it's information page and accept/confirm
    your action. It will probably give you a message that additional programs/libraries
    are needed, but by default they will be downloaded and installed as well.</li>\r\n\r\n<li>Once
    it's been installed (progress bar at the bottom, next to \"X ongoing actions\"),
    close the \"Software Manager\" and you should be able to find/launch FontForge
    at Applications -> Graphics</li></ol>\r\n\r\nIf you want to check out other open
    source graphic programs, search in the Software Manager for:\r\nInkscape (vector-creation/editing)\r\ngimp
    (bitmap-creation/editing)\r\n\r\nI hope this brings some of you to check it out.\r\n\r\nGetting
    rid of it all is easy:\r\n<ol><li>If the virtual machine (the window with Linux
    Mint in it) is still running: shut it down (preferably by hitting your username
    in the top-right corner -> shut down -> shut down, otherwise close window -> power
    off the machine).\r\n\r\n</li><li>Right click on your virtual machine in the \"Oracle
    VM VirtualBox Manager\" -> Remove -> Delete all files\r\n\r\n</li><li>Uninstall
    VirtualBox</li></ol>"
  created: '2012-01-08 12:44:59'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: I think the above post really sums up why more people aren't using FontForge.
  created: '2012-01-10 20:11:51'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "[[http://typophile.com/node/84219#comment-479519|OK, then once again]]\r\n\"...
    this package aims to distribute user friendly FontForge binaries for Windows as
    well as the underlying build system itself.\"\r\nhttp://www.mpetroff.net/software/fontforge-windows/\r\nIt
    couldn't be easier..."
  created: '2012-01-10 20:26:40'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Ha ha. Thomas, you're a cad, but an honest one. I think you're quite correct
    :)
  created: '2012-01-16 08:28:06'
- author:
    name: Syrion
  body: "@Thomas Phinney:\r\nTrue ;)\r\n\r\nIn my opinion everything related to services
    consists of a combination of two from the following three options:\r\n1. it's
    cheap\r\n2. it's good\r\n3. it's fast\r\n\r\nYou have to either invest time (1+2
    combo) or money (2+3 combo). Although the latter can also be replaced by good
    karma, for those who take a less legal route to obtain propriety software.\r\n\r\n@Janekz:
    nice to see that someone is still trying to keep up, maybe he should contact the
    projectlead of FF."
  created: '2012-01-17 12:43:43'
- author:
    name: xy
  body: "Hey,\r\nIs there some way to pass from FontLab to FontForge safely? Without
    creating an OTF file?\r\nI want to use FontForge to convert fonts in TrueType
    before generating TTFs.\r\nBut I need to to keep all the components, and be sure
    nothing  bad happens to my kerning and the classes.\r\nAny info on that?"
  created: '2012-10-19 15:25:53'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: If your version of FL can save as UFO, that oughta do the trick.
  created: '2012-10-19 18:19:15'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "xy, \r\n\r\nFontForge, at least in theory, supports the RoboFab \"Pen\" object.
    \r\n\r\nThis is a macro which, when run in FontLab Studio, will open a font in
    FontForge and use the Pen object to transfer the glyph to FLS: \r\n\r\n<code>from
    FL import *\r\nimport fontforge\r\nfrom robofab.world import CurrentGlyph\r\nflf
    = fl.font\r\nfff = fontforge.open(flf.file_name)\r\nffg = fff[\"B\"]\r\nflg =
    CurrentGlyph()\r\nflpen = flg.getPen()\r\nffg.draw(flpen)\r\nflg.update()</code>\r\n\r\nUnfortunately,
    last time I checked it (some months ago), this code was crashing FontForge a lot,
    which means that the FontForge implementation of the Pen object was unstable.
    But, at least in theory, this process should work both ways. \r\n\r\nWe'd love
    to add support for reading and writing SFD and SFDIR files natively to our next-generation
    products. I'm a strong advocate for this within FontLab, and I'd like to see how
    many people would be interested in having such functionality. \r\n\r\nGoing through
    UFO or RoboFab is the safest method at this point, I'd say. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2012-10-19 18:41:04'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "<blockquote>We'd love to add support for reading and writing SFD and SFDIR
    files natively to our next-generation products. I'm a strong advocate for this
    within FontLab, and I'd like to see how many people would be interested in having
    such functionality.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYes, please. Is there somewhere in the
    FL forums to make this clear?\r\n\r\nAdam, with a move away from your signature
    product are you looking at changing the company name as well?\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-19 18:52:14'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Is there somewhere in the FL forums to make this clear?\r\n\r\nGood point.
    Hang on for a few days, I'll set up a new board for this next week. \r\n\r\n>
    Adam, with a move away from your signature product are you looking \r\n> at changing
    the company name as well?\r\n\r\nWe'll be keeping the company name (FontLab).
    Our signature product has been FontLab Studio. We haven't announced the new product
    naming and structure, but the name \"FontLab\" will certainly keep on living. "
  created: '2012-10-19 19:22:14'
- author:
    name: xy
  body: "Hello Adam,\r\n\r\nThank you for the answer. \r\nFor sure more compatibility
    between font production tools can only be positive.\r\nI personnaly have never
    used FontForge until recently, but my partner in font design uses it sometimes,
    particularly for its ability to convert TT curves and hinting.\r\n\r\nCan the
    pen also copy hints in FontForge?\r\nAs far as I know, UFO left PS hints at its
    doors.\r\nI guess it is possible to use the lib, although I have no idea how to
    do it.\r\nBut my partner might\u2026"
  created: '2012-10-21 12:42:55'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Wow, spambot joy46 isn't even trying.\r\n\r\nBut it seems it's as good a
    time as any to revive this thread. A lot of good things have been happening with
    FontForge in the past few months . There's even a build for Mac OS X that installs
    with just a drag and drop (after installing xQuartz, but we're working on that)!"
  created: '2013-02-02 06:55:40'
- author:
    name: markovlife
    picture: 127679
  body: "I have to say; this thread is phenomenal. All it took was reading this and
    not only do I have a much better idea of the surface landscape of font development
    tools, but I have a good idea of some of the hidden limitations as well. \r\n\r\nI
    have more to ask about in the coming days I'm excited to enter what seems to be
    a lively and delightfully helpful community. \r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n<code>:\u20AC</code>"
  created: '2014-09-10 22:29:49'
date: '2007-08-25 10:05:59'
node_type: forum
title: FontForge as a Typeface Design Environment--Good Idea, Bad Idea

---
