---
author:
  name: Uli
body: "For those, who can read Spanish, here is a website from Spain called \"cuatrotipos.wordpress\"\r\n\r\nhttp://cuatrotipos.wordpress.com/2007/08/21/de-century-a-valencia-una-pequena-historia-sobre-el-fraude-tipografico/\r\n\r\ndiscussing
  forgeries and drawing heavily from my own site. Even the slogan\r\n\r\n<cite>La
  historia de la tipograf\xEDa es la historia del fraude</cite>\r\n(The history of
  typography is the history of fraud)\r\n\r\nwas drawn from my site by replacing a
  word in my slogan.\r\n(I said: <cite>\"The history of typefaces is the history of
  forgeries\"</cite>)\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: The history of websites about the history of types is the history of forgeries.
  created: '2007-08-25 22:35:02'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<cite>The history of websites about the history of types is the history of
    forgeries</cite>\r\n\r\nThere is a grain of truth is your ironical statement:\r\n\r\nHerminio
    Javier Fern\xE1ndez, a professor of design at the university of Valencia, who
    wrote the above-mentioned \"cuatrotipos\" article, made a mistake by not digging
    deep enough:\r\n\r\nOn comparing \"Century Expanded\" (1900) and \"Amts-Antiqua\"
    (1909), Prof. Fern\xE1ndez came to the correct conclusion:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"...
    pero la realidad est\xE1 ah\xED: Century y Amts Antiqua eran al 99% iguales\"\r\n(\"but
    the reality is: Century and Amts-Antiqua are 99% per cent identical\")</cite>.\r\n\r\nBut
    thereafter, due the fact that \"Century Expanded\" is older by 9 years, Prof.
    Fern\xE1ndez came to the logical, but in fact incorrect conclusion that \"Century
    Expanded\" is the \"original\" font.\r\n\r\nRecently, my sister gave me as a gift
    a very old book on Latin Synonymics, which was published in 1840 in Leipzig. While
    leafing through this old book printed on deckle-edge paper, it suddenly struck
    me, and after systematic checking of all roman and italic letters, I was convinced
    that this 1840 book was typeset using a foundry type, which was (using the words
    of Prof. Fern\xE1ndez) <cite>\"99% per cent identical\"</cite> with \"Century
    Expanded\" (attributed to Benton) alias \"Amts-Antiqua\" (attributed to Hoffmeister
    and later renamed by Stempel to \"Madison\") alias \"Century 725\" (Bitstream
    forgery) alias \"Madame\" (Scangraphic forgery) alias \"Valencia\" (Brendel forgery),
    etc. etc. etc.\r\n\r\nAfter checking the birth dates\r\n\r\n- Linn Boyd Benton,
    born 1844\r\n- Morris Fuller Benton, born 1872\r\n- Heinrich Hoffmeister, born
    1857\r\n\r\nis was evident that none of these persons could have made a foundry
    type which was used in 1840 for typesetting the old book mentioned above. Therefore
    \"Century Expanded\" and \"Amts-Antiqua\" are forgeries too. Before the year 1840
    (terminus ante quem), an anonymous punch cutter made regular, italic and bold
    cuts of a hand-composition typeface, which decades later was cloned by Benton
    and Hoffmeister.\r\n\r\nA major obstacle in discovering \"who forged what?\" is
    wrong information supplied by font forging outfits. For instance, the old Stempel
    font books do not disclose that \"Amts-Antiqua\" is a non-original font. And modern
    font books, e.g. the Font Books published by Font Shop, also conceal this fact.\r\n\r\nIn
    the 1998 Font Book, at least the name \"Hoffmeister\" was mentioned in connection
    with \"Madison\":\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/fontbook1998.gif\r\n\r\nBut
    in the 2006 Font Book, Stephen Coles, responsible for \"cross references\", removed
    the font \"Madison\" and replaced it by the Scangraphic forgery \"Madame\" and
    removed the reference to \"Hoffmeister\" so that dim-witted font buyers are at
    a loss to recognize that \"Madame\" is a forgery:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/fontbook2006.gif\r\n\r\nOf
    course, Font Shop desiring to make money by selling such forgeries has to conceal
    such information, or else even dim-wits would begin to think twice before they
    would buy a font labeled as a forgery in the Font Book.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-26 12:09:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Uli, you are using the incorrect term \"forgery\" instead of \"plagiarism\".\r\n\r\nPlagiarism:
    I steal someone else's type design and claim it as my own work.\r\nForgery: I
    design a typeface and claim that it is someone else's work.\r\n\r\nThe only digital-era
    font forgery I am aware of was a (tongue-in-cheek) hoax: House Industry's \"Chalet\".\r\n\r\nWith
    regards to plagiarism, the norm in type design is a variant of this concept --redesign.\r\n\r\nRedesign:
    I take someone else's typeface, modify it, claim at least that much as my own
    work, AND credit the original designer. \r\n\r\nThis kind of \"revival\" is considered
    homage not plagiarism, because the source is acknowledged, and, although copyright
    doesn't exist on typeface designs, nonetheless enough time has passed* that were
    the type design a painting or a novel, it would be in the public domain.\r\n\r\nThe
    real bone of contention is, as it should be, redesigns of recent typefaces, i.e.
    rip-offs.\r\n\r\n(Piracy is generally understood to mean illegal copying of software
    files.) \r\n\r\n*St Clair, in \"The Reading Public in the Romantic Period\" notes
    the effect of different lengths of copyright protection on literary production,
    and comes to the conclusion that there is an optimum duration (around 25 years),
    which protects the author's investment in a work, while thereafter allowing accessiblility
    to copyright-expired works to stimulate the culture and the economy."
  created: '2007-08-26 15:03:57'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Nick, since laws are different in different countries, it is almost impossible
    to coin a term that might fit for most countries. At the Typophile website, besides
    undefined colloquial words such as \"rip-off, knock-off, clone, etc.\", I often
    see that words are used which directly denote criminal acts in many countries,
    e.g. \"theft\" (He has \"stolen\" my font), \"fraud\", \"piracy\", etc.\r\n\r\nWhile
    \"theft\" and \"fraud\" are crimes, the word I selected, namely \"font forgery\",
    is NOT a crime AS SUCH in the countries, whose laws are known to me. Hence, the
    term \"font forgery\" is a much milder term than such criminal law terms as e.g.
    \"font theft\", \"font fraud\", \"font piracy\", etc.\r\n\r\nWhile the forgery
    of banknotes and of deeds and similar documents are crimes, the forgery of fonts
    and of paintings etc. AS SUCH are no crimes, because the criminal codes (of the
    countries which I know) do NOT define \"font forgery\", \"painting forgery\",
    etc. as crimes (\"Nullum crimen sine lege\").\r\n\r\nBut of course, a font forgery
    may be instrumental of a crime, for instance if a fraud is committed concerning
    a font forgery. But the font forgery as such is not a fraud.\r\n\r\nI avoid the
    terms \"piracy\" and \"plagiarism\", because they are (in most countries) related
    to the copyright law. Since in most countries fonts are not copyrightable, the
    terms \"piracy\" and \"plagiarism\" are nonsensical in such countries.\r\n\r\nBill
    Troop said that my term font forgery is \"loaded\", but in fact, my term is less
    \"loaded\" than the criminal law terms \"theft\", \"fraud\", \"piracy\" etc.,
    which are used so often here at Typophile.\r\n\r\nProf. Fern\xE1ndez used the
    term \"fraude tipogr\xE1fico\" (= typographical fraud), as if he were speaking
    of criminal acts. But a font forgery AS SUCH is not a crime in Spain, as far as
    I know.\r\n\r\n> Forgery: I design a typeface and claim that it is someone else\u2019s
    work.\r\n\r\nI do not know, where you got this definition from."
  created: '2007-08-26 17:16:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Concise Oxford Dictionary:\r\n\r\n\"Forge. 1. a. make (money etc.) in fraudulent
    imitation. b. write (a document or signature) in order to pass it off as written
    by another.\" "
  created: '2007-08-26 17:53:22'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "My own definition of \"font forgery\" is given in my 3-year-old very first
    document, which started my series of documentations about this industry:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/forgers.pdf\r\n\r\nThe
    fictitious \"Shakespeare\" forgery example on page 8 of this document may also
    elucidate my definition.\r\n\r\nThe test purchase of \"Basic Commercial\" 3 years
    ago was my first and my last. When I opened the font file with a font editor,
    I read this notice:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"This typeface is original artwork of Morris
    Fuller Benton. The design may be protected in certain jurisdictions.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nWow,
    I thought, this bizarre and presumably mentally deranged font forger must be a
    really funny guy. Hence I called this industry the \"funny\" font forging industry.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-26 18:32:42'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Messers. Shinn and Berkson, my proverbial hat is off to both of you for trying
    to set Ulrich straight. I almost posted the Merriam-Webster definition of the
    verb "forge" last night, but then thought better of it -- it is very hard to have
    an exchange of opinions with a brick wall.
  created: '2007-08-26 19:04:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Uli, you may find the \"font forging industry\" funny, but very few people
    in it take you seriously, because of your nonsensical use of the word \"forgery\",
    which undermines the arguments you are making.\r\n\r\n\"Plagiarization\" is a
    perfectly good word to describe what you are talking about. You could even consider
    introducing the word \"plagiat\" into English usage.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-26 20:49:03'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> \u201CPlagiarization\u201D is a perfectly good word\r\n\r\nNick, a short
    question: In which American law are the words \"plagiarization\", \"plagiarism\"
    or similar used?"
  created: '2007-08-26 21:20:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "What has the law got to do with it?\r\nPlagiarization (or, as you term it
    \"font forgery\") of type designs is legal, because they don't have copyright
    protection.\r\n\r\nThe only protection type designers have is the court of professional
    opinion. \r\n"
  created: '2007-08-27 02:42:17'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<cite><strong>Plagiarism</strong>: I <strong>steal</strong> someone else\u2019s
    type design and claim it as my own work.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>What has the <strong>law</strong>
    got to do with it? <strong>Plagiarization</strong> (or, as you term it \u201Cfont
    forgery\u201D) of type designs is <strong>legal</strong>, because they don\u2019t
    have copyright protection.</cite>\r\n\r\nNick, when you want to say that something
    has got to do or has not got to do with the law or when you want to say that something
    is legal or not legal, you have to use the legal notions (words, terms, expressions)
    used in the law, not non-legal notions. The non-legal notions \"plagiarism\" and
    \"plagiarization\" are not known in the US Copyright Act nor in the UK Copyright
    Act, nor as \"Plagiat\" in the German laws. Hence I cannot use these <strong>non-legal
    notions</strong>, when writing documentations for legal authorities, as it is
    done at my website.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, you must not use <strong>legal notions</strong>
    of crimes, unless you are speaking of crimes. For instance, you are speaking of
    the crime of \"stealing\" (= theft) in connection with plagiarism (<cite>\"I steal
    someone else's type design...\"</cite>), but a few sentences later, you declare
    that plagiarization is legal. This is both illogical and not permitted by law.
    You cannot accuse someone of having committed the crime of theft, if you think
    that what he did was legal.\r\n\r\nThe Typophile website often uses the notions
    \"steal\" and \"theft\", see e.g.:\r\n\r\nhttp://dev.typophile.com/node/33080\r\n(\"The
    best way to design - steal\")\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/15351\r\n(\"Site
    design by theft\")\r\n\r\nIf \"plagiarism\" were a legal notion, I could use it
    at my website, but since it is not a legal notion, I have to avoid to use this
    non-legal notion."
  created: '2007-08-27 07:26:58'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Berkson:\r\n\r\n<cite>\u201CForge. 1. a. make (money etc.) in fraudulent
    imitation.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nMy own definition differs only slightly from the above
    definition. I would define: \"to forge fonts = to copy fonts with intent to deceive\".
    I prefer the notion of deception to the notion of fraud, because a font forgery
    and a deception AS SUCH (Latin: per se) is not (or not yet) a fraud. However,
    it may easily happen that the crime of fraud is committed in this connection.\r\n\r\nExample:
    During the years 2003 through late 2004 (until Bruno Steinert read my document
    forgers.pdf), Linotype offered the font forgery \"Basic Commercial\" at its website
    with the false statement that this font was designed by Morris Fuller Benton.
    For those non-dimwitted non-font-buyers who know that Linotype is telling lies
    at its website, no fraud could happen, but for those dimwitted font buyers, who
    bought this font forgery believing in the above false statement, the legal situation
    was different.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-27 08:19:12'
- author:
    name: "Herminio Fern\xE1ndez"
  body: "Hello Uli:\r\n\r\nI see that the conversation has derived in an interesting
    terminological discussion.\r\n\r\nI don't want to interrupt it. But I just wanted
    to make three precisions, since my post in Cuatrotipos.com was the one that triggered
    this release:\r\n\r\n1) My English is not very fluid,(as you can read :-)),  but
    I understand that when you say \u201Cdiscussing forgeries and drawing heavily
    from my own site.\u201D You are giving to understand, that I take control of your
    knowledge to do it mine.\r\n\r\nNevertheless, in my post I recognize clearly your
    contribution, I mention your complete name and I link your Web two times. And
    not secretly, but in a quite extensive paragraph:\r\n\r\n\u201CUlrich Stiehl,
    maintains an controversial page Web, almost everything written in German, but
    that accumulates an abundant documentation on the industry of the fraud in the
    typography, mainly of these omnipresent collections of CDs with thousands of typographies
    with ridiculous prices. Also he gathers some recent issues like the one of the
    company of transport UPS that created UPS Sans like corporative typography in
    2006, to save itself to pay the license by the massive use of FF Dax, designed
    in 1995 by Hans Reichel.\u201D\r\n\r\nAnd I finished the articles mentioning two
    \u201Cpreferential sources\u201D in order to the readers link for further own
    investigation. The first, obviously, it is your web.\r\n\r\nCuatrotipos is a little
    blog on journalistic design, in which we tried to discover to the friends interesting
    anecdotes and resources on design. I like to write clearly from where my information
    come direct or indirectly. Really I didn't do the post for \u201Cadapting to me\u201D
    your work, but to present it to the Spanish-speaking readers, and I tried to leave
    it at any moment well clear.\r\n\r\nIn that post I \"draw heavily\" in several
    web pages, and of course, I \"link heavily\" to the originals. As a journalist
    I understand that the value of my affirmations is in the value of my sources.\r\n\r\n2)
    It seems that you have understood that there was also an intentional appropiation
    of your \u201Cslogan\". I have put your name alongside to him, and I link to your
    web by third time in the post.\r\n\r\n(The title of the post does not have that
    meaning: Is \"From Century to Valencia: a little tale about typographic fraud\u201D
    Because we use the same word \"Historia\" in Spanish for History and Story or
    Tale)\r\n\r\n3) As the title of post says, my only intention is to write the anecdote
    of how the city where I live, Valencia, has a typeface with its name. But unfortunately
    it isn't original, and it had not any reference to the town: in fact it is the
    changed name that Brendel emploied for avoiding to pay the license for a type
    that belonged legally to Stempel (and whose name Stempel had previously changed
    three times before, but the reference to its original author,Hoffmeister, was
    not lost with it).\r\nAfter that, to find the similarities between Amts Antiqua
    and Century is not complicated, although at no moment I describe it as \u201Cforgery\u201D,
    but as \u201Cexcess of fervor in the inspiration\u201D.\r\n\r\nI do not have as
    much typographic knowledge like the other members of this discussion.\r\nI am
    just newspaper designer and professor of newspaper design. So I had not any reference
    about tha Linn Boyd Benton's Century (whose first version starts in 1894), were
    a copy of another previous typography. Obviously, it's not an isolated creation:
    it is a evolution of the modern Romans and with clear references to the Scotch
    Types of 1830s, but its x-height and his little modulation, are understood generally
    (between the non expert ones like me), as original contributions for legibility
    that created a trend.\r\n\r\nI suppose that I would have to create a new conversation
    on the matter, but I would like to see examples of those types of 1840 with as
    much similarity (99%!) with Century, tha deserve to be described as a \"copy\"
    . It is the first news that I have about that and it seems to me a very interesting
    reference."
  created: '2007-08-27 13:03:10'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "I am pleased, Prof. Fern\xE1ndez, that you contribute to the discussion here.\r\n\r\nYou
    should not have written your lenghtly explanation, why you have \"drawn heavily\"
    on my site, because this did not annoy me at all. I was only surprised that you
    translated my expression \"forgery\" by the Spanish word \"fraude\". Since I did
    not learn Spanish, I contacted an email correspondent of mine from Spain, who
    is a linguist and who was kind enough to make for me a translation of your complete
    text at your website. She told me that \"fraude\" is \"a very strong word\" used
    in Spanish in conjunction with business crimes, e.g. in the stock market, similar
    to English \"fraud and embezzlement\".\r\n\r\nAs regards the old synonymics book,
    which I mentioned, it is difficult to make scans, and moreover, I do not think
    that anyone wants to make researches in this direction. Nevertheless, if someone
    wants to make studies concerning the typeface used in this old book of 1940, I
    herewith reference to the complete bibliographical data, so that the book may
    be bought or borrowed from a library:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.bookshopinc.com/cgi-bin/bsp455/165734.html\r\n\r\nAs
    your intention was to write an anecdote about how your hometown Valencia has a
    typeface with its name, which is a \"fraude tipogr\xE1fico\", it will be of interest
    for you to learn that \"Valencia\" was not the only font forgery sold under the
    name \"Valencia\". The American font forging outfit Atech published a font forgery
    of the font \"Barcelona\" (by Ed Benguiat in 1981) under the name \"Valencia TA\".
    The suffix \"TA\" was an abbreviation for \"Type-O-Thek Allfonts\"."
  created: '2007-08-27 16:08:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Hence I cannot use these non-legal notions, when writing documentations
    for legal authorities, as it is done at my website.</em>\r\n\r\nBut if you have
    to modify the meaning of the word \"forgery\" for these brilliant legal minds,
    so that for application to the matter of fonts it differs from the dictionary
    definition and the common understanding, what's the difference? Why not modify
    the meaning of the word \"plagiarism\" to have a special font-centric meaning?\r\n\r\nAnd
    why bother posting to Typophile, where most of the readers are non-legal and therefore
    dim-witted enough to expect the meaning of words to correspond to general usage,
    and the dictionary?"
  created: '2007-08-27 19:39:58'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> word \u201Cplagiarism\u201D\r\n\r\nIf my own website were designed for
    Americans only, I should use the word \"plagiarism\". But a quick check reveals
    that this word is not most common at Typophile. In search mode (http://typophile.com/search/node)
    I count:\r\n\r\nplagiarism: 12 threads (wherein this word occurs at least once)\r\n\r\n(Note:
    The verb plagiarize, in all forms, is not used at all.)\r\n\r\nknockoff: 28 threads
    (various spellings: \"knock off\", \"knock-off\", etc.)\r\n\r\nripoff: 24 threads
    (various spellings)\r\n\r\ntheft: 16 threads (+ thief: 6 threads)\r\nsteal: 29
    threads (+ steals: 2 threads)\r\nstolen: 16 threads (+ stole: 17 threads)\r\nstealing:
    34 threads\r\n\r\nSo, theft/steal is most common at Typophile, followed by knockoff
    and ripoff."
  created: '2007-08-27 21:04:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Uli, it's not about \"Americans\" -- the salient point is that Typophile
    is in English, and most people post in English, including you and I, neither of
    whom are Americans. (Admitted, I do spell plagiarize with a \"z\" not an \"s\",
    a deviation from my British roots.)\r\n\r\nAlthough \"plagiarism\" is less used
    here than \"knock-off,\" it's slightly less inflamatory, which is why I prefer
    it.\r\nThe use of knockoff and ripoff imply intent, but the lack of acknowledgment
    inherent in the meaning of \"plagiarism\" may also apply to the plagiarizer, who
    may simply be unaware of originality problems, and thinks the degree of derivation
    is acceptable.\r\n\r\nFor instance, there is a big difference between tracing
    over someone else's design, and creating a design from nothing which ends up looking
    a bit like someone else's. But this subtle distinction, which is very important
    to type design, is not captured in any word, or phrase, even \"unintentional plagiarism\".
    What we need to be aware of, as type design professionals, is that even with the
    best intentions, one of our designs may resemble a recent and well-known effort
    of someone else's, and that is not acceptable unless the  face in question is
    an old classic such as Century."
  created: '2007-08-27 21:50:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Uli, you will note also that nobody except you uses the word 'forgery' for
    improper copying of type designs. That is because,as Nick pointed out, the term
    is almost always used in the context of a criminal act of fraudulently creating
    a fake--painting, signature, etc.--to pass off as genuine.  \r\n\r\nThe question
    of whether one design is too close to another--like whether one tune is too close
    to another--has a gray area, where it is often difficult to determine. The existence
    of a large gray area may be why there is no one really good term for improper
    copying vs appropriate influence. \r\n\r\nHere on Typophile you have been treating
    the issue of inappropriate copying as a completely black-and-white issue, which
    to me, and it seems a lot of others, indicates that you fundamentally misunderstand
    it. \r\n\r\nThe history of type is full of copying of all sorts, so if you want
    to get it right you need to be clear that some is clearly OK, some is clearly
    not, and there is a lot where it is difficult to say.    "
  created: '2007-08-27 22:09:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Uli, I hope you accept my criticism as constructive, and keep banging away.\r\nIn
    my opinion there is not enough originality in the type design industry, and derivative
    work gets way too much respect.\r\nHelvetica, a plagiarization, is the best-selling,
    best-known, most used typeface. Sad."
  created: '2007-08-27 22:26:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Helvetica, a plagiarization\r\n\r\nHelvetica was a modernization of typefaces
    from 60 years earlier, Akzidenz Grotesk, Breite Grotesk no? And being called initially
    Neue Haas Grotesk, it clearly referenced earlier typefaces. And it changed the
    old faces carrying through a consistent new design idea. I can't see anything
    improper in that. \r\n\r\nIf you don't like faces that openly adapt earlier work,
    you are entitled to your tastes. But to call them plagiarism seems to me quite
    inappropriate. Would you call your own revivals plagiarism? I wouldn't. How are
    their relations to past type faces different from Helvetica? "
  created: '2007-08-27 23:05:38'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "1)\r\n> Uli, I hope you accept my criticism as constructive\r\n\r\nI do,
    Nick.\r\n\r\n2)\r\n> Uli, you will note also that nobody except you uses the word
    \u2019forgery\u2019 \r\n\r\nMr. Bergson, it might be helpful to consider, how
    the word is used in other languages, e.g. when German laws are translated into
    English.\r\n\r\nLook, for example, at the Joyce Hatto case:\r\n\r\nIn the <strong>USA</strong>,
    it is called a <strong>\"plagiarism case\"</strong>, see e.g. here\r\n\r\nhttp://www.boston.com/news/globe/living/articles/2007/02/23/alleged_hatto_plagiarism_shakes_music_world\r\n\r\nIn
    <strong>Germany</strong>, it is called a <strong>\"forgery case\"</strong> (F\xE4lschung),
    see. e.g. here\r\n\r\nhttp://www.spiegel.de/kultur/musik/0,1518,468799,00.html\r\n\r\nIn
    my fifty/fifty German/English website, I use \"F\xE4lschung\" = \"forgery\", which
    is exactly what you find in a German-English dictionary."
  created: '2007-08-27 23:15:12'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>And why bother posting to Typophile, where most of the readers are non-legal
    and therefore dim-witted enough to expect the meaning of words to correspond to
    general usage, and the dictionary?</em>\r\n\r\nNick, I love your reasoning and
    arguments! [Comment deleted by author.]"
  created: '2007-08-27 23:33:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>But to call them plagiarism seems to me quite inappropriate.</em>\r\n\r\nCheck
    Linotype's site. There is no mention of the derivation of Helvetica from AG, which
    was shown in the Helvetica documentary (so I've heard -- I haven't seen the film).
    So by adapting AG, and not acknowledging it, that's plagiarization.\r\n\r\nHelvetica
    is a revival, but Max Miedinger's bio at Linotype mentions that he was \"commissioned
    to design a new sans serif typeface\". You state that his refinement of AG is
    a \"consistent new design idea\". Sorry, but I don't think a makeover or restyling
    is really the same thing as a new design idea! \r\n\r\n<em>How are their </em>[my
    revivals]<em> relations to past type faces different from Helvetica?</em>\r\n\r\nBecause
    I 'fess up.\r\nStated on my website, in PDF specimens -\r\nWorldwide: \"A revival
    in the Century genre\"\r\nGoodchild/Nicholas; \"Jenson revival\"\r\nBodoni Egyptian:
    not really a revival, but the derivation stated in the name.\r\nWalburn: \"Walburn
    is an adaptation of a typeface by Eric Walbaum\" (actually that's from my old
    website, I must reinstate that reference on the new site).\r\n\r\nI should also
    point out that none of my revivals has yet achieved the ubiquity of Helvetica,
    and I've published many more original designs than revivals. I find it a sad reflection
    of type culture that so many of the best known and most used faces are derivative.
    It's not that I'm against the past, and in fact I've succumbed to revivalism for
    the past three years, working on the Modern Suite (if you can't beat 'em...).
    As I said, I just find it sad that the best-selling, best-known, most used typeface
    is a 50-year old revival -- compare typography with other fields of art and design.
    \r\n\r\nActually, I'm very optimistic about the future of typography, so many
    great new typefaces have been designed in the last few years.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-28 00:57:37'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "Mr Shinn, you seem to have a bone to pick with Helvetica! Did it do something
    mean to you when you were both children? And are you sure that Helvetica isn't
    actually  a rip-off of Frutiger, like Myriad? Or maybe Frutiger is a forgery of
    Akzidenz-Grotesk? They look the same at 16 point, when viewed from across the
    street.\r\n\r\nI'm just really confused by all of this Helvetica-hating, which
    seems like so much glasshouse stone-throwing. Mr Shinn, you have admitted above
    that you have plagiarized from the historical types of Jenson, Walbaum, and Benton.
    How are your plagiarized works any less scorn-worthy than Helvetica? (I don't
    like Helvetica either, but I can tell that it doesn't look like Akzidenz-Grotesk.)\r\n\r\nUli,
    I find it wonderful that you have talked about \"your own definition\" of words.
    You could take Alberto Gonzales's place as U.S. Attorney General: the job involves
    creating one's own definitions of words.\r\n\r\nJN"
  created: '2007-08-28 02:57:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "As I remember from discussions of the origins of Helvetica here on Typophile,
    there was no single coherent Akzidenz Grotesk--that was a post-Helvetica creation
    by G.G. Lange--but a series of German sans fonts with different treatments. Akzidenz
    simply meant 'jobbing'--for advertising--but different sizes had different designs,
    and sometimes even different names. \r\n\r\nAs type goes, the creation of Helvetica,
    inspired by a diverse but related group of faces, seems to me pretty original.
    According to the story in the film, it evidently struck people as fresh at the
    time is came out--1957--helping its rapid rise to popularity. \r\n\r\nAs to acknowledgments,
    this complicated history, with no one source of inspiration, seems to me to let
    Linotype off the hook as far as acknowledgments in this case. \r\n\r\nYours is
    certainly an expert opinion, but I would be very surprised if many other experienced
    type designers would agree with you that Helvetica is an example of improper copying.
    \  \r\n\r\nIncidentally I don't have any pro-Helvetica bias. I think it is rotten
    in text, stale as display, and sub-par in signage. "
  created: '2007-08-28 03:07:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: James, why don't you read what I wrote and make an attempt to understand it,
    before asking questions that I've already answered?
  created: '2007-08-28 03:14:04'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "Nick Shinn wrote:\r\n\"There is no mention of the derivation of Helvetica
    from AG, which was shown in the Helvetica documentary (so I\u2019ve heard \u2014
    I haven\u2019t seen the film).\"\r\n\r\nYou're like one of those lunatic Christians
    who picketed theatres showing \"The Last Temptation of Christ\" without ever seeing
    the film.\r\n\r\nNick Shinn also wrote:\r\n\"Helvetica is a revival.\"\r\n\r\nPlease
    let me know the source of this information. Because being \"commissioned to design
    a new sans serif typeface\" does not seem synonymous with \"reviving\" to me.\r\n\r\nI
    read (and understood) what you wrote, which is why I asked the questions I did.
    Or did you answer questions under other Typophile topics. (I have been reading
    this site for several months, but maybe I missed it.)"
  created: '2007-08-28 03:32:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I would be very surprised if many other experienced type designers would
    agree with you that Helvetica is an example of improper copying.</em>\r\n\r\nBill,
    does nobody read what I write? Why do people insist on attributing opinions to
    me that I don't have?\r\n\r\nI don't \"hate\" Helvetica, for goodness sake, I
    think it's overused.\r\nAnd I never said it's an example of improper copying.
    It's only a restyling, a revival. Besides, everything's legal and proper except
    point piracy.\r\nWe're discussing plagiarism, and I pointed out that if you don't
    acknowledge your sources, that's what plagiarism is. \r\nHelvetica is closely
    based on AG, that isn't mentioned at Linotype's website, although it as at the
    Helvetica Wiki page, among other sources.\r\nMost people think Max Miedinger designed
    it, but others, such as Gary Hustwit, are more careful, and use the word \"developed\".\r\nMany
    type designers other than myself, such as Martin Majoor in his Eye article, recognize
    it as a close copy of AG."
  created: '2007-08-28 03:35:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>without ever seeing the film.</em>\r\n\r\nIt was a still from the film
    that I saw, which showed rough drafts of Helvetica being compared to AG. I wish
    I could  find it to post here.\r\n\r\n<em> being \u201Ccommissioned to design
    a new sans serif typeface\u201D does not seem synonymous with \u201Creviving\u201D
    to me.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm sure he did the best he could with the commission."
  created: '2007-08-28 03:40:42'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "Nick Shinn wrote:\r\n\"I\u2019m sure he did the best he could with the commission.\"\r\n\r\nMr
    Shinn, From browsing your site, I saw that you were commissioned to design types
    for a newspaper up there in Canada. Were your designs revivals? Because it you
    seem to be saying that any commission is necessarily a revival. I'm sure that
    some commissions are revivals, but surely some are for original work?\r\n\r\nAnd
    I'm sorry, but a still from a film \"which showed rough drafts of Helvetica being
    compared to AG\" does not sound like conclusive proof of plagiarism to me.\r\n\r\nMr
    Berkson, thanks for your historical perspective on the many types known as Akzidenz-Grotesk,
    and the G. G. Lange \"revival\" of the style under the name \"Akzidenz-Grotesk\".\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-28 03:57:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>does not sound like conclusive proof of plagiarism to me.</em>\r\n\r\nOne
    more time:\r\nCopying and plagiarism are different things.\r\n\r\n<em>you seem
    to be saying that any commission is necessarily a revival</em>\r\n\r\nThen you
    misunderstood me. I said Max Miedinger was asked to design a new sans typeface
    (according to Linotype.com), and he did the best he could, with some success.
    But it was a revival of AG. As far as I am aware, he was not a designer of original
    typefaces. Two other designs by him are mentioned at Linotype, but they are no
    longer published, despite his fame as Helvetica's designer, and I have never seen
    them. "
  created: '2007-08-28 04:14:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, Linotype acquired Helvetica when it took over Haas in 1989, according
    to the history on its web site. Haas and Meidinger could be praised or blamed
    for whatever they said then--and I don't know what it was. But to call Linotype
    plagiarists for not going into the history of a fifty year old font that they
    got 18 years ago seems to me weird. \r\n\r\nIf they went into Akzidenz Grotesk,
    they would have to mention name of a rival product, and explain that Berthold's
    font of that name isn't really the same as the original varied metal fonts, but
    also a modern synthesis, of several faces etc., etc. I can understand their not
    wanting to open that can of worms.   \r\n\r\nAlso 'plagiarism' implies a close
    or identical copying of material. It goes beyond a lack of graciousness in acknowledging
    inspirations for your work. And I think Helvetica is significantly different in
    its thoroughgoing modernism. \r\n\r\nHere is what Majoor says: \"Compared to Akzidenz
    Grotesk, Helvetica has hardly any new features. Though claimed to be an improvement
    on Akzidenz Grotesk, it lacks all the character and charming clumsiness of Akzidenz
    Grotesk. Helvetica is blunt and colourless...\"\r\n\r\nBut that effort to cut
    out the clumsiness and be colorless and consistent was a new look, and it, along
    with Univers, which had a similar goal and appeared at the same time, were seen
    as path breaking as part of a new aesthetic of modern 'swiss design' or the 'international
    style.' \r\n\r\nAlso Helvetica did a lot of things to 'lock in the whites' or
    'activate the whites', which the Swiss were talking about at the time. (See my
    illustrations and comments about halfway down [[http://typophile.com/node/36301|this
    thread]].)\r\n\r\nHere on Typophile quite a few people say they love the current
    AG, but hate Helvetica. Not an AG admirer, but it shows that many people find
    a significant difference. "
  created: '2007-08-28 04:33:45'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "Mr Shinn, I really don't think I'm stupid, but I'm totally lost by your train
    of thought.\r\n\r\nTo rephrase my statement... And I\u2019m sorry, but a still
    from a film \u201Cwhich showed rough drafts of Helvetica being compared to AG\u201D
    does not sound like conclusive proof of copying to me.\r\n\r\nI think I'm starting
    to get what you're saying with this:\r\n\"I said Max Miedinger was asked to design
    a new sans typeface (according to Linotype.com), and he did the best he could,
    with some success.\"\r\n\r\nYou, Nick Shinn, as the best type designer in the
    history of time, are in the unique position to be able to judge the success or
    failure of all other type designers.\r\n\r\nTo put Max Miedinger's body of work
    in context...\r\n\r\nJohann Pachelbel was a prolific composer of sacred and secular
    music during the Baroque era. He is known almost exclusively for the first movement
    of his Canon and gigue in D major. Of the approximately 530 compositions attributable
    to Pachelbel, it is one half of one piece which has stayed with us for 300 years.\r\n\r\nThe
    Czeck type designer Peter Bilak spent several years making variants of his magnus
    opus, Fedra. A list of types on his website reveals one early display type (Champollion),
    Greta, and 12 different Fedra families in all possible variants, sans and serif,
    condensed, display, arabic, mono...\r\n\r\nMax Miedinger was fortunate to leave
    behind a piece of classic design. (Note that I do not say \"arguably\". It is
    a design classic, whether anyone deems it otherwise.)"
  created: '2007-08-28 04:39:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I think Helvetica is significantly different in its thoroughgoing modernism.</em>\r\n\r\nAs
    Martin Majoor says, \"Helvetica has hardly any new features.\" Surely a new design
    needs new features, you can't just do some renovation and call it a new building.
    Futura, is a genuine example of 20th century modernism, built from the ground
    up, not a reprise of 19th century modernism.\r\n\r\n<em>You, Nick Shinn, as the
    best type designer in the history of time</em>\r\n\r\nSteady on. Even Hrant only
    said I was better than Zuzana Licko :-)"
  created: '2007-08-28 05:42:23'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "On account of its great importance for the history of typefaces, I think
    that it is imperative that the discussion about Helvetica should be raised to
    a more scholarly level. A \"summary judgment\" in the form of \"<strong>The</strong>
    Helvetica is a \"plagiarism\" of <strong>the</strong> Akzidenz Grotesk\" is unscholarly.\r\n\r\nI
    have many old and oldest printed samples of numerous foundry type cuts of Akzidenz
    Grotesk, some of which are downloadable here\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/fontdocs/index.html#AKZIDENZ\r\n\r\nbut
    I have none of the oldest printed samples of \"Haas'sche Grotesk\" and \"Neue
    Haas'sche Grotesk\". As far as I know, when Miedinger started the \"Neue Haas'sche
    Grotesk\" (neue = new), the Haas'sche foundry already sold the \"Alte Haas'sche
    Grotesk\" (alte = old) dating back to the 1940s, which at that time was simply
    called \"Haas'sche Grotesk\" (without \"old\").\r\n\r\nFor a scholarly discussion
    of plagiarism, you cannot draw on a promotional Helvetica movie, but you have
    to compare the oldest printed alphabet samples of the old Haas'sche Grotesk with
    the very first cuts made by Max Miedinger (i.e. not with the Helvetica cuts published
    years later) and with the old cuts of AG available at the time, when Miedinger
    started his work. But for doing this scholarly comparison you have to supply scans
    of the oldest alphabet samples from the oldest type specimen books available.\r\n\r\nIt's
    funny, but in this year 2007, a Frenchman issued \"Alte Haas Grotesk\", but due
    to lack of old Haas samples, I cannot decide, whether this is a facsimile font
    of the \"real\" \"Alte Haas'sche Grotesk\":\r\n\r\nhttp://www.dafont.com/fr/alte-haas-grotesk.font\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-28 08:43:27'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Uli, you say that you are writing \"documentations for legal authorities\"
    and \"for prosecutors and criminal courts.\"\r\n\r\nI am not a law expert but
    it is my understanding that\r\n\r\n1. Prosecutors never take action in intellectual
    property issues. If I am wrong please correct me by providing a counter-example.\r\n\r\n2.
    Judges do not consider any external sources, only the legislation and the evidence
    provided by both parties. If I am wrong please correct me by providing a counter-example.\r\n\r\n3.
    If someone sues someone else they would not need your documentation because they
    have much more information and insight in their particular case anyway.\r\n\r\nSorry,
    I believe what you are doing (not the subject) is simply completely irrelevant
    and will never have any effect on a law suit.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-28 12:43:08'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "Uli wrote:\r\n\"It\u2019s funny, but in this year 2007, a Frenchman issued
    'Alte Haas Grotesk', but due to lack of old Haas samples, I cannot decide, whether
    this is a facsimile font of the 'real' 'Alte Haas\u2019sche Grotesk':\r\n\"http://www.dafont.com/fr/alte-haas-grotesk.font\"\r\n\r\nThis
    is amazing! A free font which states itself to be \"A typeface that looks like
    printed in an old Josef Muller-Brockmann Book.\" It's an auto-traced font, with
    round corners and rough edges.\r\n\r\nUli, you seem to be a serious researcher,
    so it is extraordinary that you would cite this source. This would be better:
    a friend of a friend's neighbour's brother-in-law's colleague.\r\n\r\nThanks to
    Tim Ahrens for providing the right word to end this statement:\r\nThe history
    of websites about the history of types is the history of irrelevance.\r\n\r\nJN"
  created: '2007-08-28 13:33:05'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<cite>Prosecutors never take action in <strong>intellectual property</strong>
    issues. If I am wrong please correct me</cite> \r\n\r\nHerr Ahrens, I already
    wasted too much time trying to explain why I use the term \"font forgery\". And
    now you come along and want to make me or other believe that I use the term \"intellectual
    property\". I don't care to correct you. Believe whatever you want to believe!\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-28 13:46:44'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "OK, if my terminology is the problem, let me formulate my first point as:\r\n\r\n1.
    Prosecutors never take action in font forgery issues. If I am wrong please correct
    me by providing a counter-example."
  created: '2007-08-28 13:56:36'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<cite>Prosecutors never take action in <strong>font forgery</strong> issues</cite>\r\n\r\nPlease
    read my above entry of 26.Aug.2007 9.16am.\r\nWhy should I repeat what I have
    already explained?\r\n\r\nShould you happen to have further legal questions, I
    suggest that you consult a lawyer. In Germany, there are more than 100,000 lawyers
    always eager to consult against payment."
  created: '2007-08-28 14:16:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, [[http://typophile.com/node/28845|this thread]] I think sheds light
    on the issue of how new Helvetica is. Half way down the first page you can see
    the Breite Grotesk that was one of the influences on Helvetica. And to me it looks
    significantly different. In fact, as the poster mentions, FF Bau is an effort
    to revive Breite Grotesk that is has more of the original flavor. \r\n\r\nAlso
    in that thread Erik Spiekermann says that the current AG is based on Helvetica,
    with relatively few changes, such as diagonal terminals. I wonder if Martin Majoor
    was mistakenly comparing Helvetica and the current AG, rather than Helvetica and
    the original German Grotesks that inspired Helvetica. \r\n\r\n>Surely a new design
    needs new features, you can\u2019t just do some renovation and call it a new building.
    Futura, is a genuine example of 20th century modernism, built from the ground
    up, not a reprise of 19th century modernism.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure what you'd call
    'features'. If you mean structural features such as whether the W has crossed
    middle strokes or not, I would disagree. I think you can have all such features
    the same and have radically different faces. If you've ever used Identifont you'd
    agree: with the same features, it comes up with matches that have radically different
    styles. \r\n\r\nThe handling of contrast, terminals, relative widths, proportions
    are as important as these structural features, and as much a source of originality
    in type, such as it is. \r\n\r\nI think Futura is a much greater typeface than
    Helvetica, but it is a different kind of modernism than Helvetica. According to
    the very interesting book on Renner, he was trying to be classic as much as modern,
    and it shows--for the better in my opinion. He was not trying for the bland-with-sparkle
    look that is the defining characteristic of Helvetica, and of which it is the
    prime exemplar.  \r\n\r\nWhen even Uli, who is always the first to cry 'forgery',
    questions you on whether Helvetica is improper copying, I think you are on thin
    ice on this one.  "
  created: '2007-08-28 15:05:45'
- author:
    name: Sam M
  body: "This is a very strange semantic conversation and just goes to show that intellectual
    property arguments and liscencing agreements are built on very logically shaky
    grounds. Lawyer jargon and litigation-culture will destroy us all!  \r\n\r\n   "
  created: '2007-08-28 17:24:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/berthold_accidenz_4420.jpg]\r\n\r\nHere
    is Berthold's 1954 specimen of Accidenz Grotesk.\r\nMiedinger traced the lower
    case of one size, and the upper case of another (or a photostat), then nuanced
    his drawings. \r\n\r\nI have no evidence that's the way he worked, but why wouldn't
    he?\r\nThat's how people do revivals, by tracing."
  created: '2007-08-28 18:31:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, you've got a point. That looks way more like Helvetica than the Breite
    Grotesk in the other thread. \r\n\r\nI'd be curious to see what other German Grotesks
    were floating around--like the original Haas Grotesk--to see how derivative Helvetica
    was from AG specifically, and how much it was a refinement of German Grotesk style
    generally. "
  created: '2007-08-28 18:56:31'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "Mr Shinn, as the pre-eminent type designer in the universe, I will believe
    you when you say that all revivals are made by directly tracing existing sources.
    That's what you did with your revival typefaces, I'm guessing.\r\n\r\nRe: the
    image you posted. To my eyes, this is completely different from Helvetica. Completely.
    Which is evident even at this small size.\r\n\r\nUli, I think that Mr Ahrens makes
    the valid point that Prosecutors do not bring forgery/IP/whatever cases. In the
    United States, they work for the city, state, or nation, and they bring cases
    for crimes like theft and murder. Cases concerning forgery/IP are the province
    of civil law, where one person sues another, with lawyers representing each side
    to a court. No Prosecutors anywhere, just lawyers.\r\n\r\nMaybe it's different
    in Germany, in which case you should go and post all of your stuff on typophile.de."
  created: '2007-08-28 20:55:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "James, may we continue without the sarcasm?\r\nAt Typophile, we try to keep
    a lid on ad hominem remarks:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/36566\r\n\r\nHow do
    you suppose Max Miedinger created the artwork for Helvetica?\r\nDo you not think
    it likely that he would have proceeded from tracings of the 1954 Berthold face?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/berthold_accidenz2_5097.jpg]"
  created: '2007-08-28 21:41:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">That\u2019s how people do revivals, by tracing.\r\n\r\nI don't know what
    Max Miedinger did, but I know what I am doing with my revival of Caslon, and it
    is not following tracing. \r\n\r\nI have indeed done scans of the three best text
    sizes--all significantly different from one another. But I have drawn everything
    from scratch, except the initial i and o of the basic size--and I changed these
    two letters numerous times. I compared with a magnifying glass my drawings to
    the original printing of Caslon, to revivals of Caslon, both metal and digital,
    as well as other old faces. I have adopted what I like in Caslon, rejected what
    I don't, and added my own inventions. \r\n\r\nMatthew Carter compared a revival
    with a new performance of an old score. For my effort, I feel like it even more
    for me and Caslon it has been like taking an old theme from a symphony, and writing
    a new symphony with the same theme. \r\n\r\nIt isn't a matter of cleaning up traces,
    or altering them here and there. It is a matter of finding a new vision of an
    old style--and it is in fact a Dutch style that went through many hands--and carrying
    that through systematically. \r\n\r\nCaslon did his interpretation of his Dutch
    predecessors, and I am doing my interpretation of his work. I feel like I'm in
    good company, and it is a company not of pirates, but of craftsman and artists. "
  created: '2007-08-28 22:22:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Of course, that was a generalization Bill.\r\nThere's no survey of redesigners'
    work that reveals their methods.\r\nNonetheless, the signs of autotracing (an
    important feature of Illustrator, Fontographer and FontLab) are apparent in the
    outline paths of many retro fonts, and faces such as Adobe Garamond were made
    with tracing, as shown in the Adobe Garamond specimen booklet.\r\nI've used a
    variety of techniques, including the magnifying glass.\r\nHowever, the similarities
    between Accidenz Grotesk and Helvetica are too great for me to reconcile with
    any technique other than tracing.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nThere's an important consideration
    that sets revivals of older letterpress text types apart, and that is the adjustment
    made from impressions with substantial gain, to present day offset reproduction
    (or display usage), which requires imagination and interpretation on the part
    of the redesigner. That forces a certain amount of originality upon the project,
    which you don't see in revivals that are made, for instance, from display sizes
    in early 20th century specimen books, or from phototypositor era specimens --
    such as a recent post in this forum, Rustikalis."
  created: '2007-08-29 03:17:27'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<cite>Nonetheless, the signs of autotracing (an important feature of Illustrator,
    Fontographer and FontLab) are apparent</cite>\r\n\r\nIf I renamed my website from\r\n\r\n\"The
    Funny Font Forging Industry\" to\r\n\"The Funny Font Tracing Industry\"\r\n\r\nthen
    the font tracer alias font forger Tim Ahrens would be more pleased.\r\n\r\nWhile
    it is known that font tracer alias font forger Tim Ahrens traced Albert Kapr's
    \"Leipziger Antiqua\", the interesting question remains:\r\n\r\nDid font tracer
    Tim Ahrens trace Typoart's photocomposition tracings,\r\n\r\nsee here http://justanotherfoundry.com/Lapture/index.htm\r\n\r\nor
    did font tracer Tim Ahrens trace the tracings made by URW,\r\n\r\nsee here http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/urw/leipziger-antiqua/\r\n\r\nAbove
    in this thread, font forger alias font tracer Tim Ahrens remarks:\r\n\r\n<cite>Judges
    do not consider any external sources, only the legislation and the evidence provided
    by both parties</cite>\r\n\r\nIf the lid on Albert Kapr's coffin was solidly nailed
    and his coffin deeply buried, I wonder how Albert Kapr could provide evidence
    to judges.\r\n\r\nChase said (http://www.sanskritweb.net/chase)\r\n\r\n\"The dead
    stay dumb\"\r\n\"Here's your wreath\"\r\n\"This way for a shroud\"\r\n\r\nBut
    Chase also said:\r\n\r\n\"A coffin from Hongkong\"\r\n\"Make the corpse walk\"\r\n\"We'll
    share a double funeral\"\r\n\r\nSo, in the end, is font forger alias font tracer
    Tim Ahrens right in saying that Albert Kapr could supply evidence to judges? If
    this were true, it would explain, why Chase said:\r\n\r\n\"Knock, knock! Who's
    there?\"\r\n\"My laugh comes last\"\r\n\"I'll get you for this\"\r\n\r\nPS: I
    have just seen: The American \"Red Rooster\" font forging outfit also made a forgery
    (sorry, a \"tracing\") of Kapr's Leipziger Antiqua:\r\n\r\nsee http://www.veer.com/products/typedetail.aspx?image=RRT0011540"
  created: '2007-08-29 11:05:25'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "For more information on the making of Lapture see the following articles:\r\n\r\nTypographica\r\nhttp://typographica.org/001041.php\r\n\r\nDT&G\r\nhttp://www.graphic-design.com/Type/lapture/index.html\r\n\r\nPAGE
    09/2005 (unfotunaley only available for a fee)\r\nhttp://www.page-online.de/page/pdf/daten/C142/"
  created: '2007-08-29 11:20:37'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "In Germany, it is is not permitted to reproduce photographs of persons on
    commercial websites for promotional purposes, unless you have obtained a prior
    written permission by the person shown on the photograph (see e.g. Dreyer/Kotthoff/Meckel,
    2004, page 791).\r\n\r\nBy \"tracing\" Kapr's photo (http://justanotherfoundry.com/Lapture),
    Tim Ahrens claims to have become copyright owner of Albert Kapr's photograph.
    This form of appropriation is called by Ahrens the \"revival\" and \"redesign\"
    of photographs."
  created: '2007-08-29 11:52:25'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<cite>the tracings made by URW,\r\nsee here http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/urw/leipziger-antiqua/</cite>\r\n\r\nBtw,
    these are not the tracings made by URW, it is a version made by Ralph M. Unger.
    Unfortunately we were both working on digitisations without knowing of each other
    and published the fonts shortly one after another.\r\n\r\nThe tracings made by
    URW (in the 1980s) are not publicly available, as far as I know."
  created: '2007-08-29 11:54:52'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Re the extreme similarities between the Accidenz\u2013G and Helvetica \u2014
    it\u2019s almost as if Miedinger was thinking of the old maxim regarding plagiarism:
    as long as seven instances are different, the result is considered \u2018new\u2019\u2026\r\n\r\n(IMO
    there are remarkable similarities. Even the \u2018colour\u2019 of these two examples
    is near\u2014identical.)\r\n\r\n___\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2007-08-29 13:53:22'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<cite>I think Futura is a much greater typeface than Helvetica, but it is
    a different kind of modernism than Helvetica. According to the very interesting
    book on Renner, he was trying to be classic as much as modern, and it shows\u2014for
    the better in my opinion. He was not trying for the bland-with-sparkle look that
    is the defining characteristic of Helvetica, and of which it is the prime exemplar.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhen
    taking in account the more \u2018extreme\u2019 glyphs Renner proposed for <strong>a,
    g, </strong>etcetera, I think his aim was more for a modern look than a classic.
    Nevertheless Futura turned out to be a classic (and the royalties saw Renner through
    a very different period in his life). And I\u2019d take Futura over Helvetica
    any day!\r\n\r\nThe book is \u2018Paul Renner\u2019 by Burke, I presume?\r\n\r\n___\r\nBert
    Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2007-08-29 13:58:12'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<cite>When taking in account the more \u2018extreme\u2019 glyphs Renner proposed
    for a, g, etcetera, I think his aim was more for a modern look than a classic.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    have the impression it is just the opposite. The alternative versions of a and
    g aimed at following the traditional models for romans and only when he realised
    these were not possible to \"construct\" in a convincing manner he chose the single
    storey a and the open g - which are much more radical in my eyes!\r\n\r\nHowever,
    how letter shapes are perceived is subjective and changes over time. I remember
    when we were talking about the atmoshphere of typefaces everyone called Helvetica
    conservative, classic or \"retro\". Then Gerard Unger, our teacher, reminded us
    that some 40 years ago almost everyone felt the opposite! Maybe the same goes
    for the a and g in Futura?"
  created: '2007-08-29 14:38:40'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Nick, your two AG samples of 28.Aug.2007 10.31am + 28.Aug.2007 1.41pm do
    not convince me, for you do not supply respective OLD Helvetica samples for comparison.\r\n\r\nAlthough
    my comparison samples are a few years later,\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/ag-1959a.gif\r\n(First
    slug-typesetting version of AG of 1959)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/hv-1961a.gif\r\n(First
    slug-typesetting version of HV of 1961)\r\n\r\nmy samples permit exact comparisons
    and reveal very different x-heights."
  created: '2007-08-29 15:14:20'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> The tracings made by URW (in the 1980s) are not publicly available\r\n\r\nFor
    copying them, Mr. Ahrens, they needed not be publicly available.\r\n\r\n(For comparison,
    since the word \"stealing\" is preferred at Typophile: For a burgler or thief
    to steal, the stolen goods need not be publicly available.)"
  created: '2007-08-29 15:20:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Uli, Tim Ahrens says he got permission from Kapr''s widow to do the digitization,
    and he evidently put in considerable creative effort in creating different styles,
    harmonizing the upper and lower case, etc. And he gives full acknowledgment. What
    do you want, that he raise Kapr from the dead to say it''s OK? '
  created: '2007-08-29 15:43:00'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Tim Ahrens says he got permission from Kapr\u2019s widow \r\n\r\nMr. Berkson:\r\n\r\nTim
    Ahrens did not say that he \"got permission\", but that he \"decided to seek permission\".
    In addition, he does not supply any proof for his statement. In this font industry,
    where forging and lying and cheating is customary, I never believe anything that
    is not backed by proof. For instance, in this thread I stated that Linotype said
    that Basic Commercial is original artwork of Morris Fuller Benton. Do you believe
    such statements, which are not backed by proof?\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-29 16:13:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Tim Ahrens did not say that he \u201Cgot permission\u201D, but that he \u201Cdecided
    to seek permission\u201D.\r\n\r\nNo, he said publicly on Typographica (link above):
    \"I decided to contact Kapr's widow and was granted permission to digitize Leipziger
    Antiqua.\"\r\n\r\nAnd I believe him. \r\n\r\nYour stated presumption that everyone
    who produces type is lying unless proven otherwise is both unethical and more
    than a bit nutty, in my opinion. "
  created: '2007-08-29 16:32:02'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> And I believe him.\r\n\r\nMr. Bergson, considering that URW and Red Rooster
    had already digitized the font, which \"permission to digitize\" could have been
    \"granted\" by the widow? Since this thread has the header \"historia del fraude\",
    I think it bizarre that you regard people who do not believe everything as \"nutty\".
    Why should I believe in a \"permission to digitize\" which was legally impossible
    according to the German law?\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-29 16:55:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Uli, you wrote above: \"I never believe anything that is not backed by proof.\"\r\nNow
    you say \"I think it bizarre that you regard people who do not believe everything
    as 'nutty'.\"\r\n\r\n\"Never believe anything that is not backed by proof\" and
    \"do not believe everything\" are radically different statements. I was talking
    about the first not the second. \r\n\r\nI won't comment further. "
  created: '2007-08-29 17:40:26'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "I am sorry, Mr. Bergson, that I have hurt your feelings, but I had to drive
    home the legal facts. Mr. Ahrens knows that the widow was not in a legal position
    to grant to him (or to URW or to anyone else) the permission to digitize the font,
    for she never owned the right to digitize the font. Therefore, the permission
    to digitize the font would have been as legally impossible as the permission to
    grow wheat on the backside of the moon.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-29 18:09:35'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Uli,\r\n\r\nYour comments are worthless. Since you continually deride makers,
    manufacturers, sellers, buyers and users of type, just who is it that you propose
    to help or protect? Now you seem to be trying to protect a dead man. From what?
    If anything is bizarre, Uli, it is your obsessions. \r\n\r\nYour fetish for simplistic
    fault-finding borders on the autistic. It has no place at Typophile where the
    very human pursuit of type design and use is of interest to a great number of
    gloriously flawed humans. \r\n\r\nPlease desist from pestering legitimate posters
    to Typophile. Again I suggest you depart for a more ethically pure industry, such
    as food production, pharmaceutical science, politics or religion. "
  created: '2007-08-29 21:19:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>my samples permit exact comparisons and reveal very different x-heights.</em>\r\n\r\nAs
    I mentioned, I assume that Max Miedinger would have begun by tracing one size
    of lower case, and photostats of resized capitals. On second thoughts, he would
    have probably done it the other way round, and resized the lower case. \r\n\r\nIn
    my opinion, the process is important in determining the originality of a type
    design, as much as any comparison of physical characteristics. That's particularly
    true for design, as compared to art, where technique has become increasingly irrelevant,
    and a distinction has emerged between artists and makers.\r\n\r\nSo when considering
    the modernity of, for instance, the Futura capitals, the principle of basing them
    on simple geometric shapes resonates with Purism and similar movements in 20th
    Century art, although the letterforms themselves resemble those of antiquity."
  created: '2007-08-29 21:53:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>It has no place at Typophile</em>\r\n\r\nOn the contrary, the \"simplistic
    fault finding\" of an amateur can serve a purpose in pointing out that the emperor
    has no clothes.\r\nThis is an industry where plagiarism is quite acceptable, and
    professionals are loath to rock the boat. \r\n\r\nBring it on, Uli--but could
    you please retire such terms as \"dim-witted\" and \"mentally deranged\" and let
    your argument speak for itself?"
  created: '2007-08-29 22:16:42'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"emperor has no clothes.\"\r\n\r\nIs this news? 500+ years on in the history
    of typefounding, in the 21st century, surrounded by western culture, and you're
    suddenly scandalized? "
  created: '2007-08-29 23:37:11'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> \u201Cemperor has no clothes.\u201D\r\n\r\nWhen this bizarre industry removed
    its own fig-leaf of \"moral code\":\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/atypi.htm\r\n\r\nby
    <strong>annulling</strong> its own moral code:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Members consider
    it to be <strong>incompatible</strong> with their professional ethics to make
    a reproduction of another member\u2019s typeface, <strong>whether identical or
    slightly modified</strong>, irrespective of the medium, technique, form or size
    used.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nthis self-righteous font forging industry lost its final
    piece of clothing revealing again the inner meaning of Andersen's fairy tale.\r\n\r\nMiss
    Tiffany Wardle, who runs Typophile, counted the votes of those who annulled the
    moral code:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/moral_code.pdf\r\n\r\n\"Hand
    me a fig-leaf\" (James Hadley Chase)"
  created: '2007-08-30 05:31:44'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Bring it on, Uli</em>\r\n\r\nSorry, Nick, but I'm with Carl on this one
    -- Ulrich is not contributing anything worthwhile to this forum, and it is part
    of his modus operandi to use the terms you ask him to withdraw -- you and William
    have tried reasoning with him, and it is clearly not doing any good!"
  created: '2007-08-30 06:07:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Ulrich is not contributing anything worthwhile to this forum,</em>\r\n\r\nDidn't
    you find his last post interesting?\r\nI didn't know that ATypI had a Moral Code,
    and recently annulled it."
  created: '2007-08-30 07:28:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>my literal translations of German legal terms may cause misunderstandings.</em>\r\n\r\nThere
    is no judge or jury to convince here.\r\nIn effect, you are trying to convince
    Typophile members that we are dim-witted.\r\nI doubt German lawyers would argue
    their case by suggesting that the judge or jury is mentally defective, or that
    the judicial system is bizarre.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-30 15:56:07'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I've done no fig leaf counting and would like my name to remain left out
    of this insane thread. Thank you. \r\n\r\nOh, and I don't <em>run</em> Typophile.
    I'm only a moderator here."
  created: '2007-08-30 17:10:45'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "Uli, I have asked and never got an answer... Are you a lawyer? A law student?
    Do you have a degree in law? I'm just curious, as you seem to have great conviction
    in your \"Font Forging\" documentation.\r\n\r\nMy theory is that you have chosen
    \"Font Forgery\" as your pet project because there were already too many sites
    about the faked moon landings, the Kennedy assassination, and the government's
    responsibility for 9/11. And David Hasselhoff fansites; WAY too many of those.\r\n\r\nOn
    your site, your \"Font Forging Industry\" link \u2014 # 4 in your list of \"Other
    Stuff\" \u2014 is subtitled (Report for Legal Authorities). Again, please remind
    me who commissioned this ever-growing report.\r\n\r\nLooking forward to reading
    your answers.\r\n\r\nJN"
  created: '2007-08-30 17:37:00'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<cite>please retire such terms as \u201Cdim-witted\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    term \"dim-witted\" is used by the German Supreme Court in connection with the
    crime of fraud, as was explained by the German Supreme Court in the famous \"Sirius\"
    decision (BGHSt 32, 38).\r\n\r\n...\r\n\r\nPS: Since I see that even the decision
    by the German Supreme Court cannot convince anyone here, I deleted my above summary
    of the BGH decision in order not to bore anyone here and instead amuse myself
    by reading again the suitable Chase novel: <cite>\"Believe this - you'll believe
    anything\"</cite>. Cheers."
  created: '2007-08-30 18:16:48'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "Uli, I'll ask again, because maybe you didn't see my questions... Are you
    a lawyer? A law student? Do you have a degree in law? I\u2019m just curious, as
    you seem to have great conviction in your \u201CFont Forging\u201D documentation.\r\n\r\nOn
    your site, your \u201CFont Forging Industry\u201D link \u2014 # 4 in your list
    of \u201COther Stuff\u201D \u2014 is subtitled (Report for Legal Authorities).
    Again, please remind me who commissioned this ever-growing report.\r\n\r\nStill
    looking forward to reading your answers.\r\n\r\nJN"
  created: '2007-08-31 15:31:06'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "Uli, it's been a couple of weeks, so I thought I'd try again... Are you a
    lawyer? A law student? Do you have a degree in law? I\u2019m just curious, as
    you seem to have great conviction in your \u201CFont Forging\u201D documentation.\r\n\r\nOn
    your site, your \u201CFont Forging Industry\u201D link \u2014 # 4 in your list
    of \u201COther Stuff\u201D \u2014 is subtitled (Report for Legal Authorities).
    Again, please remind me who commissioned this ever-growing report.\r\n\r\nStill
    looking forward to reading your answers.\r\n\r\nJN"
  created: '2007-09-11 13:58:28'
date: '2007-08-25 12:02:34'
title: "La historia de la tipograf\xEDa es la historia del fraude"

---
