---
author:
  name: richard_a
body: "I know, a whole lot of designers prefer the\r\nfonts which are \"sold\". Unfortunately
  at times \r\npeople cant afford even the cheapest of the \r\nfonts which are sold,
  primarily because they \r\nare sold in dollars or euro, converting it \r\nat times
  into any other country's money means \r\nmultiplying it by a factor of 50, or 10
  atleast.\r\n\r\nAt times, when you are designing for NGO's or\r\nvolunteer organizations,
  they really do not\r\nhave the budget to buy fonts.\r\n\r\nIn such a situation,
  which are the \"good\" fonts\r\nthat are available for free ? I know sites like\r\nDafont
  have many fonts, but I'd like to know \r\nthe ones which are good and usable, mainly
  for\r\nthings like body text, headlines etc. not just\r\nfor display or decorative
  purposes.\r\n\r\nIf you have found such free nuggets please\r\nshare them with us.\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: The best nuggets usually come bundled with software you have bought. I have
    bought some things just for the fonts that come on the CDs. Browse through the
    CD of any graphic programs you have and you could turn up something.
  created: '2007-08-25 21:55:52'
- author:
    name: b-dr
  body: The TypoWiki contains an entry on [[http://typophile.com/node/14652?|free
    fonts]].
  created: '2007-08-25 21:57:44'
- author:
    name: richard_a
  body: "\r\nCould you please give me an example of the fonts\r\nthat come along with
    graphic softwares ?\r\n\r\nWe use gimp and inkscape."
  created: '2007-08-25 21:59:21'
- author:
    name: richard_a
  body: "\r\nThank you Bart De Ruyck,\r\n\r\nI think, I should have looked around\r\nbefore
    posting. :p"
  created: '2007-08-25 22:01:03'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Indeed, free software rarely comes bundled with free fonts.\r\nBut just about
    any commercial application that handles text, from Corel Draw to Microsoft Word,
    generally includes a bundle of fonts that are licensed with purchase of said software.
    Not really free, but you don't have to pay more for them once you have bought
    the program."
  created: '2007-08-25 22:04:09'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "If you can use .ttf on PC, just a $5 old version of Print Artist 4 will have
    over a thousand AGFA fonts. \r\n\r\n[[http://www.josbuivenga.demon.nl/index.html|Here
    are a few real nice fonts I came across recently]]"
  created: '2007-08-25 22:07:01'
- author:
    name: Rodrigue Planck
    picture: 109713
  body: "Buy an old version of Canvas from Deneba, 2400 URW fonts you can find it
    on ebay regularly for very reasonable prices, and the fonts are pretty interesting,
    but not cutting edge. \r\n\r\nThe Truth shall set you free"
  created: '2007-08-25 22:48:08'
- author:
    name: jslabovitz
    picture: 112323
  body: "The [[http://dejavu.sourceforge.net/wiki/index.php/Main_Page|DejaVu]] fonts
    are not only free to use, but open-source as well.  One of the project's primary
    goals is to have a very full character set:\r\n\r\n<dl><dt><dd><em>Most DejaVu
    fonts are suitable for Latin (Western and Central European, African Latin and
    International Phonetic alphabets), Cyrillic (European) and Greek (Modern and Polytonic).
    Arabic, Armenian, Hebrew, Lao, Canadian Aboriginal Syllabics and Georgian are
    currently in development and included in DejaVu Sans.</em></dl>\r\n\r\nSo, not
    only are these not sold in $ or \u20AC, their character sets may be even more
    appropriate for your projects.\r\n\r\nGranted, they aren't the most interesting
    of designs -- just a sans, serif, and mono.\r\n\r\n--John"
  created: '2007-08-25 22:55:55'
- author:
    name: John Erik
  body: 'Have a look through the pages at [[http://www.yayhooray.com/thread/79356/the-hott-freee-fontss-nnoww!?page=1|this]]
    site. Not all of them are of any use of course, but some of them are surprisingly
    nice. '
  created: '2007-08-25 23:37:48'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: There is also <a href="http://fontleech.com/"><strong>Fontleech</strong></a>,
    a discriminating online compendium of free font links, which has received <a href="http://www.typophile.com/node/9380">favorable
    comments from Stephen Coles</a>.
  created: '2007-08-25 23:41:13'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: Thanks John, John and Ricardo. Got a few nice things to play with I hadn't
    seen before.
  created: '2007-08-25 23:53:54'
- author:
    name: richard_a
  body: "\r\nThank you all.\r\n\r\nYou have been very kind.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-26 00:55:27'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "A couple of blog posts from people who went out looking for fairly decent
    free fonts, [[http://www.alvit.de/blog/article/20-best-license-free-official-fonts|here]]
    and [[http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2006/10/11/17-more-free-quality-fonts/|here]].
    They are from a while ago, so I don't know if all the links still work. You'll
    have to try.\r\nAnd [[http://www.josbuivenga.demon.nl/|Jos Buivenga]] has made
    some pretty nice free stuff."
  created: '2007-08-26 01:05:16'
- author:
    name: terryw
    picture: 109820
  body: "I would like a free car. One that drives as good as a Mercedes, but BMW grade
    OK. I don't want to pay for it but I will drive people around and charge them
    for it. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-26 15:13:38'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "[[http://www.fontplay.com/images3/sukplena.jpg|I just used one]] that I picked
    up at one of those sites.\r\n\r\nBtw, I took that photo at Big Lots. It is a closeup
    of a sort of non-liquid lava lamp, with a green 'color' layer that took out the
    blue swirls."
  created: '2007-08-26 15:21:51'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Terry, I suppose that your remark refers to the ease with which one can make
    copies in the digital realm, which can create an attitude that things like software
    programs, music, movies, etc., should be free.\r\n\r\n[EDIT] And richard_a does
    mention that he needs the fonts for clients that are non-profit groups. It doesn't
    sound like he will making tons of cash off of the work he creates with these free
    fonts."
  created: '2007-08-26 19:24:46'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Funny. Do the non-profit orgs also only get printing when it is free?\r\n\r\nI
    know a lot of non-profits will pay big bucks for quality printing, quality design,
    and quality fonts ... particularly when the end purpose is to produce direct mail
    pieces that are intended to solicit donations. That business is based on appealing
    to the heart strings of potential donors, and I can think of no way of destroying
    the mood better than through poor design.\r\n\r\nSpending $500 for fonts is a
    good investment if it will result in $100,000 more in donations from a mailing."
  created: '2007-08-27 15:10:04'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>Spending $500 for fonts is a good investment if it will result in $100,000
    more in donations from a mailing.</cite>\r\n\r\nThere are different level of non-profit.
    Some are pretty slick at raising money. Some are mainly concerned with helping
    people, and don't have a lot of resources. And you seem to assume it is a money-raising
    mailing that is being worked on. Could just be a dance for blind autistic people.\r\n\r\nBut
    we get your point. There are instances where it doesn't hold much water. I have
    worked in such a situation.\r\n\r\nStill, there are so many inexpensive resources
    available there isn't anything that should stop anyone from designing quality
    output, except maybe being talent-handicapped. Which reminds me, your donation,
    sent to fontplay.com will help victims of this terrible disease."
  created: '2007-08-27 15:23:13'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: I see your point, Don, and it makes a lot of sense.
  created: '2007-08-27 16:25:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "If you click on Richard's name, you'll find that he's in Eritrea.\r\nHence
    his \"50 times\" the price comment.\r\nRegular font prices are an affordable bargain
    in the West, but a luxury in many African countries."
  created: '2007-08-27 18:28:44'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>If you click on Richard\u2019s name, you\u2019ll find that he\u2019s
    in Eritrea.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhen you have a chip on your shoulder, the facts usually
    are not important. Not all non-profits have the budget of Red Cross or World Vision,
    and the snide comments make me a little sad."
  created: '2007-08-27 19:13:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Nonetheless, the double standards that exist in non-profits and NGOs can be
    galling for those who volunteer, seeing that some products and services (and employees)
    get paid for their work.
  created: '2007-08-27 19:21:11'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>the double standards that exist in non-profits and NGOs can be galling</cite>\r\n\r\nFor
    some, there is never enough money to do the job. \r\n\r\nOther are just slick
    fund-raising fronts. One I checked out, only 5% went to what the organization
    said they existed to do. The rest were salary and fund-raising. Some of which
    was sub-divided in the statement as 'education', but was what they called it when
    someone physically went out to do a presention.\r\n\r\nHere in the US they have
    to give you a statement of how money is spent, if you request it. I have found
    it is worthwhile if you are thinking of donating."
  created: '2007-08-27 19:51:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Double standards are a necessary evil, as many different kinds of work need
    to be done, but not all suppliers and contractors are prepared to do it for free.
    \r\n\r\nIMO the saddest situation in when volunteers start up an organization
    which becomes successful, and then must become self-sufficient and professionally
    run to survive past their initial enthusiasm -- however, they are not professionally
    qualified to run it (especially relevant if a third party, e.g. governement, is
    providing funding) so can't even apply for the job they created and do. There
    is also the stigma of self-interest that prevents one from capitalizing on a pro
    bono initiative. It's an ethical conundrum. However, I don't mind donating fonts
    to any organization that asks me (as long as it's suitably radical and the kind
    of outfit I'd be inclined to donate to anyway), after all, it takes little effort
    to copy a piece of software."
  created: '2007-08-27 21:24:26'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>However, I don\u2019t mind donating fonts to any organization that
    asks me (as long as it\u2019s suitably radical and the kind of outfit I\u2019d
    be inclined to donate to anyway), after all, it takes little effort to copy a
    piece of software.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat is good to hear, and what I'd hope from
    most good people. I just got home, and when I get settled, I'll present an organization
    I've been involved with, as an example of how a tremendous amount of good can
    be done, mainly with donations of goods and time, and most of all, caring."
  created: '2007-08-28 01:45:12'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Maybe 18-20 years ago I got involved in going down to an orphanage with 23
    kids between Ensenada and Tecate in Baja. When I first started going down, there
    were no toilets or running water. The kids used an outhouse with a rotting floor,
    with a big hole in it that allowed you to see the refuse and maggots, if you had
    a mind to focus in that direction.\r\n\r\nThere was no washing machine for clothes,
    as we know it. Just a tub with a wringer. Doing laundrey this way for 23 kids
    was a workout. everything was very primitive.\r\n\r\nThrough the years, materials
    were geneously donated that allowed us to put in showers, toilets, laundry room,
    build more rooms and bunk beds, study room with books. Now over 90 kids are housed
    at that orphanage. A few years ago a computer room was built. \r\n\r\nMoney donated
    has been used for extended education. Beauty school for some. Trade school for
    others. We have put in a water tank on top of the main house, and arranged for
    drinking water to be trucked in to fill the tank on a regular basis. \r\n\r\nSometimes
    we help with gas and electric bills. But we don't naively give away money. Fortunately,
    there is an upright person in charge of this particular orphange, which is one
    reason we have focused our work there.\r\n\r\nI was able to get 5 spanish comic
    books for $1 in Tijuana and bring  50-60 each time I go down to encourage them
    to read. And some of the little kids who used to sit in my lap and read the comic
    books, now have successful careers, and families. Some are now coming back to
    help at the orphange.\r\n\r\nWe haven't been able to tap many of the common sources
    for funding because we don't want to have to kiss too many behinds, and have people
    tell us what we can and can't do.\r\n\r\nSo with whatever money that comes in,
    there is always a something we can do for the next generation of kids. There is
    no 'advertising budget', and there are no salaries, and we are very used to asking
    for donations before buying something. \r\n\r\nOne school district who found out
    what we were doing, recently  donated two hardly used school buses. They figured
    for as much as they were using them, they could charter and save overall on insurance
    and upkeep.\r\n\r\nI suppose I should mention that orphanages in Mexico, most
    of the kids have at least one parent, but that person is a drug addict, drunk,
    prostitute, child beater or child molester, and the state has taken the kid away.
    An occasional success story has the father sobering up and staightening up his
    life, and coming and getting his kids, but that isn't too common.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    we wouldn't think of asking for a free font, but more practical things are always
    needed. Most people who come down and see what a difference we can make in someone's
    life are happy to help in one way or another.\r\n; )\r\nIf you have the opportunity
    to get involved with a group that goes down to Mexico, or some other underdeveloped
    location, it is a wonderful experience with various rewards. Not the least of
    which is an appreciation for many things you have taken for granted."
  created: '2007-08-28 03:07:46'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>As much as I live for fonts and design, I\u2019d much rather see that
    $500 go towards buying kid\u2019s shoes so they can go to school...</cite>\r\n\r\nExactly!"
  created: '2007-08-28 14:43:18'
- author:
    name: terryw
    picture: 109820
  body: "<em>As much as I live for fonts and design, I\u2019d much rather see that
    $500 go towards buying kid\u2019s shoes so they can go to school...\r\n\r\nExactly!</em>\r\n\r\nsometimes
    both can happen http://www.buildingletters.org/ & http://www.myfonts.com/foundry/fontaid/"
  created: '2007-08-28 16:07:29'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Sometimes a free font and someone who doesn't know what they are doing can
    make a difference.\r\n\r\nhttp://moorstation.org/typoasis/designers/klein04/kl1mono_fundraiser.htm"
  created: '2007-08-28 16:15:46'
- author:
    name: terryw
    picture: 109820
  body: "<em>someone who doesn\u2019t know what they are doing</em>\r\n\r\nthis may
    sound harsh, but i must ask\r\nwhy not learn what you are doing rather than boast
    you do not know?\r\n\r\na very noble and very worthy cause, but is not getting
    the name of the syndrome wrong a very unfortunate typo that could potentially
    have a negative rather than positive effect?\r\n\r\nit seems a bit disingenuous
    to claim a free font used in a table centerpiece was responsible for the amount
    raised at this fundraiser. fonts are fonts in the end. do good things for humanity.
    do good typography. we can all aspire for greater things."
  created: '2007-08-28 17:09:19'
- author:
    name: dinazina
    picture: 113020
  body: "I do feel graphics skills are one way to contribute, if you feel the world
    desperately needs some changes. I volunteer for a number of local nonprofit causes.
    My husbands asks: Are you ever going to get paid? (I am occasionally...)\r\n\r\nI
    do all the graphics & web for Washington Public Campaigns (that's Washington State).
    I was enthused about this cause from the first meeting, where I volunteered graphic
    design. \r\n\r\nThey were operating on a shoestring: not even enough funds to
    pay one part-time staffer. I had noticed all their graphics SUCKED, from the website
    to the logo and brochure. They were done by whoever volunteered to do them: young
    techies or sweet old ladies. \r\n\r\nA year later the organzation's membership
    has grown 10 times larger. So much praise and appreciation is heaped on me (and
    all the volunteers) it's almost embarrassing at times (well, not really, I like
    it). "
  created: '2007-08-28 17:29:40'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>why not learn what you are doing rather than boast you do not know?</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    cannot afford to go to design school. I am trying to learn on the go, which is
    one reason I am here. But I fear I will attain the level of work I admire. I just
    can't visualize at that level.\r\n\r\n<cite>it seems a bit disingenuous to claim
    a free font used in a table centerpiece was responsible for the amount raised</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd
    I only claimed my FPs were used centerpieces. But it was helping in my way.\r\n\r\n<cite>but
    is not getting the name of the syndrome wrong a very unfortunate typo</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    had no idea what you were talking about, and after checking, I can't believe no
    one involved with the organization caught that error. I could swear I have heard
    it called that. My bad. The world is full of dummies, and I am a card-carrying
    member.\r\n; )"
  created: '2007-08-28 17:41:53'
- author:
    name: malbright
    picture: 111180
  body: "I think it would be very hard to argue that $500 in fonts would directly
    increase a compaign's effectiveness. I'm not saying that good design and copywriting
    don't make a difference, of course, just that there are numerous free fonts out
    there they would do the job just as well. \r\n\r\nI regularly receive mailers
    from and contribute to organizations such as the ASPCA, Habitat for Humanity,
    The Red Cross and others, and their font usage is pretty horrendous. Nevertheless,
    they are highly successful at obtaining donations, because their work is important
    and their message resonates.\r\n\r\nAs much as I live for fonts and design, I'd
    much rather see that $500 go towards buying kid's shoes so they can go to school,
    rather than using a stunning HFJ font on their brochure. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-29 09:58:29'
- author:
    name: richard_a
  body: "\r\nI understand the sentiments of designers who, earn\r\ntheir living by
    using fonts ( as graphic designers )\r\nand by making fonts (as type designers).
    However,\r\ndear friends please do have a look at the context\r\nand claims one
    is faced with.\r\n\r\nI know by using \"free\" fonts, I might not come out\r\nwith
    an exceptional design concept. My main motive\r\nhere is to do the best I can
    in the given constrains.\r\n\r\nIn the Book by Erik S. he ends it beautifully
    by saying\r\nthere is no bad type. In this respect, I think a free\r\nfont would
    be \"good\" for me. I guess one just has to learn\r\nto work with the so called
    \"bad\" type.\r\n\r\nThank you all for your inputs.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-29 19:06:20'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Hi Fontplayer,\r\n\r\nIf you feel you need some commercial type to further
    the cause, please contact me thru my profile. I\u2019ll buy them for you.\r\n\r\n___\r\nBert
    Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2007-08-29 20:54:36'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "<cite>I guess one just has to learn\r\nto work with the so called \u201Cbad\u201D
    type.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt would be nice to see/know what font(s) you did choose for
    your design(s)."
  created: '2007-08-29 21:48:06'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: I might as well use this wasted double post to wish that edited posts would
    stay in order. Or that someone would state a good reason why it can't be so.
  created: '2007-08-29 21:56:46'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Bert, That is very kind of you to offer. However my level of talent will
    be served with the thousands of commerical fonts I've already legally obtained.
    Some bought individually back when I had 'extra' money have never been used for
    anything.\r\n\r\nWhen I originally make the 'fontplays' used for the fund-raiser,
    it was just for my own enjoyment using free fonts and some photos my friend came
    back from Africa with. They liked them and asked to use them. Another used one
    of Ray Larabie's fonts. (Ray would be in my Hall of Fame if not for an ill-considered
    comment he made once upon a time. In any case, he has made some of my favorite
    free fonts)\r\n\r\nHere's the Africa one using his Engebrechtre:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/engebrechtre_6150.jpg]\r\n\r\n[[http://www.fontplay.com/ray.htm|The
    rest of the RL FPs are here]] \r\n\r\nThanks again for your offer. It is very
    kind of you. I'm sure your generous nature will be rewarded when all is tallied
    up."
  created: '2007-08-29 21:58:56'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Getting back to the subject of whether free fonts are "good" or "bad," I just
    discovered the <a href="http://www.designwritingresearch.org/free_fonts.html"><strong>Free
    Font Manifesto</strong></a> on Ellen Lupton's website -- an interesting, thoughtful
    read.
  created: '2007-08-31 04:13:13'
date: '2007-08-25 21:49:06'
node_type: forum
title: Where do I find free nuggets ?

---
