---
author:
  name: bpotstra
  picture: 112489
body: "Hi everyone, \r\n\r\nI'm conducting some research for a presentation I will
  be delivering at work in the near future, and would love some input from anyone
  who is interested. I am presenting on the topic of \"Trends in Web Typography\"
  and would like to know what each of you think about where type has been (early web
  design), where it is now (web 2.0 and such), and what direction you think it may
  be headed. The third is almost entirely opinion-based, but the most important and
  relevant to my presentation, so put your thinking caps on and present your best
  ideas.\r\n\r\nMany thanks in advance to all who reply to this post. If I end up
  using a quote from one of your replies, I will ensure proper credit to the author
  is made.\r\n\r\nCheers, \r\n\r\nBrian"
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: I wrote <a href="http://www.fontshop.com/fontfeed/archives/the-logos-of-web-20/">a
    bit about this</a> last year. Since then, there has been a lot of copying of the
    soft/rounded and large type trends, but I think those are reaching the end of
    their life cycle now. Can't really say what's next, except that typography is
    definitely in a better shape on the web now than it was 5 years ago. Web designers,
    a group formerly obsessed mostly with imagery and effects, now generally regard
    good typography as an important part of their design process.
  created: '2007-08-29 18:09:01'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "What do you mean by \xBBweb typography\xAB?\r\nDoes this include static logo
    images or just the way type is used in HTML, Flash and so on?\r\n\r\nRalf\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-29 18:14:11'
- author:
    name: bpotstra
    picture: 112489
  body: "Thanks Stephen + Ralf!\r\n\r\nI agree with you Stephen in your stating that
    \"web designers now regard good typography as an important part of theeir design
    process\". Its great to see an ever-expanding appreciation for well-designed typefaces,
    and indeed, good typography in the last few years. Still, the question remains:
    what is next?\r\n\r\nRalf, I would actually be interested in reviewing trends
    in both logo/wordmark design on the web, as well as body/HTML copy. I've read
    over this article by FontShop (Stephen, you should be familiar with this, lol)
    on \"The Logos of Web 2.0\" and find it quite excellent, yet still, the question
    remains: what is next?\r\n\r\nThank you kindly for your thoughts!\r\n\r\nBrian"
  created: '2007-08-29 18:32:06'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"what is next?\"\r\n\r\nWell, I don't see much coming down the pipe in terms
    of drastic changes.\r\n\r\nFont Embedding was an idea that came and went. SVG
    came, then went, and might come back again, but probably not. We now have Flash
    (and likely Silverlight, to some extent) when needed for spec'ing specific faces
    for specific uses. Decent use of CSS is allowing for readable HTML type that isn't
    absolutely locked into the designer's own view of what it should be and accommodates
    end-user preferences more and more.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-29 19:08:00'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "Relevant to the discussion: a couple of days ago one of the leading Web design
    online magazines, A List Apart, published an article about font embedding on the
    Web by H\xE5kon Wium Lie titled <a href=\"http://www.alistapart.com/articles/cssatten\"><cite>CSS
    @ Ten: The Next Big Thing</cite></a>. He is the original creator of Cascading
    Style Sheets and argues that it may now be a good time to resume work on proper
    font embedding in Web pages."
  created: '2007-08-29 20:52:09'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "One guess:\r\nSince Web 2.0 sites become more and more \xBBapps\xAB than
    just \xBBpages\xAB I would guess there will be Preferences on websites, where
    you can set up your favourite look and feel for the site, including fonts, sizes,
    line-spacing and so on. \r\n\r\nI don't think that future design trends in the
    web can be foretold. Mostly there is one successful company, that uses a new look
    (like Apple's glass/aqua look) and everyone starts to adapt it. \r\n\r\nFont Embedding
    will become interesting again, if we have screens with a significantly higher
    resolution and hinted TrueType fonts are not necessary anymore.  "
  created: '2007-08-30 09:24:00'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Typography to me is when something happens beyond the simple horizontal stacking
    of letters, which is type writing. Leading, tracking, justification, hyphenation,
    g-g-glyph substitution, hanging punctuation, intelligent weight variation, kerrrrrnnnning
    or even font selection \u2014 these are the  \"freedoms\" that allowed Gutenberg,
    e.g. to invent Letterpress 1.0. So, imho web Typography would be a void waiting
    to be filled if it were ever perceived as such.\r\n\r\nThe good news, as you may
    have heard at TypeCon, is that Bill Gates woke up 'n the middle of a night and
    asked an employee how many MS apps use ligatures...The Bad news, as you may not
    have heard, is that this question was asked in 2003, at the earliest, and not
    recently as may have been implied.\r\n\r\n\"Font Embedding will become interesting
    again, if we have screens with a significantly higher resolution and hinted TrueType
    fonts are not necessary anymore.\"\r\n\r\nThis is maybe not well stated, or else
    it is not well thought out?  When resolutions rise, they do not do so universally,
    and even when they do rise part way across the market, does this mean people won't
    use smaller point sizes?  Resolution is rising slowly and expensively on big screens,
    and small screens where it is more common, are not blessed with much of a space
    for \"typography\". \r\n\r\nLastly, I'm pretty sure Font Embedding will become
    interesting again only when it allows the font specification of web pages to be
    complete to the user's world, i.e. beyond the current, family, style, color, and
    size...cage, to the factors important to the existence of typography, like rendering
    method, screen resolution and browser.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-30 12:46:04'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite> When resolutions rise, they do not do so universally, and even when
    they do rise part way across the market, does this mean people won\u2019t use
    smaller point sizes? </cite>\r\n\r\nNo, it doesn't mean that. There will alway
    be small resolution devices. I was speaking about the typical use of websites
    on regular computer screens. Many webdesigners (mostly the ones from a print background)
    are requesting font embedding, so they could use fonts like Garamond Pro for body
    copy texts on websites. Obviously that is no good idea with the current resolutions.
    But as resolutions rise, a website will one day resemble a printed page. And when
    these screens are standard, hinting won't be necessary any more. "
  created: '2007-08-30 13:38:34'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I would guess there will be Preferences on websites, where you can set
    up your favourite look and feel for the site, including fonts, sizes, line-spacing
    and so on.\"\r\n\r\nMany sites do this to some extent with on-screen color and
    text resizing.\r\n\r\nBrowsers have supported this feature for many years now,
    though it's not necessarily used by many folks.\r\n\r\nOh, apparently the next
    OSX is going to (finally!) be resolution independant. This may lead to some interesting
    shifts in how we view type on screen.\r\n\r\n\"But as resolutions rise, a website
    will one day resemble a printed page.\"\r\n\r\nI don't think so. We have PDFs
    for that now and they are still (and likely always will be) of limited use on-screen.
    People have adapted to a very different way of interacting with text within a
    web browser. Print = designer's preferences. Web = designer's suggestions but
    end-user's preferences. I think that difference will increase.\r\n\r\nI agree
    that hinting, in theory, will eventually be unnecessary. Anti-aliasing is mainly
    a hack to accommodate the woefully slow state of resolution increases in display
    devices."
  created: '2007-08-30 14:54:04'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>We have PDFs for that now and they are still (and likely always will
    be) of limited use on-screen.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut why is that? Only because of the
    resolution! If you look at a letter size PDF on an average screen you have to
    zoom in to read body copy text. The interactivity of the Web and the quality of
    printed documents will merge in the future. We will have screens with the resolution
    of printed documents and we will have electronic papers that will display websites.
    I have no idea if this will be achieved in 5, 10 or 20 years, but it will come.
    \r\n\r\nRalf\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-30 18:25:40'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"But why is that? Only because of the resolution!\"\r\n\r\nNo, I'd say because
    it's still very much a static way to display content and more often than not is
    geared towards a paginated, portrait-orientated fixed canvas size. Paper is good
    for that. Screens, not so much.\r\n\r\n\"We will have screens with the resolution
    of printed documents\"\r\n\r\nOh, the resolution will definitely be there. I'm
    just saying the concept of a 'static printout on screen' just won't really ever
    be THAT appealing.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-30 19:33:05'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Oh, the resolution will definitely be there. I\u2019m just saying the
    concept of a \u2019static printout on screen\u2019 just won\u2019t really ever
    be THAT appealing.</cite>\r\n\r\nI totally agree on that!\r\nWhen I was talking
    about \xBBwebsites resembling printed pages\xAB I meant in terms of the quality,
    not layout or functionality. \r\n\r\nRalf\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-30 19:39:14'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "RH \"...if we have screens with a significantly higher resolution and hinted
    TrueType fonts are not necessary \"\r\n\r\nDB \"When resolutions rise, ... does
    this mean people won\u2019t use smaller point sizes...\"\r\n\r\nRH \"No, it doesn\u2019t
    mean that. There will alway be small resolution devices. I was speaking about
    the typical use of websites on regular computer screens. \"\r\n\r\nYou are not
    understanding me I'm afraid. What I'm saying is that the low end of the resolution
    spectrum only escapes hinting through bitmaps (or things that only I do), and
    as resolutions rise, the useful range of point sizes can fall. Today, Websites
    use the same size for text as for captions, e.g. (or they specify type too small
    to look good cross platform)... With higher resolution devices, the \"typical
    use of websites\" on \"regular computer screens\" can employ a broader range of
    readable sizes, and they will. Thus, hints go away, not, unfortunately.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-08-31 12:02:58'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite> With higher resolution devices, the \u201Ctypical use of websites\u201D
    on \u201Cregular computer screens\u201D can employ a broader range of readable
    sizes, and they will. Thus, hints go away, not, unfortunately.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    see. Good point. Haven't thought about this yet. \r\n\r\nRalf\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-31 12:34:28'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "Sorry if I only seem to be able to contribute pointers to this discussion:
    there\u2019s an <a href=\"http://www.atypi.org/05_Brighton/25_typetech/20_main_programt/view_presentation_html?presentid=394\">upcoming
    talk about fonts embedding for the Web</a> at ATypI/TypeTech in Brighton by Simon
    Daniels. I\u2019m looking forward to it and hopefully report back if anything
    interesting arises."
  created: '2007-08-31 14:02:14'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"and as resolutions rise, the useful range of point sizes can fall. \"\r\n\r\nNo,
    probably not. 10pt type is 10pt type. Most folks, regardless of the resolution
    density of the device aren't going to have much need for < 10pt type. We tend
    to read most digital output devices at arm's length at best.\r\n\r\nverbosus...you
    know much about that subject matter of that talk? I'd fear that it'd just be a
    sales pitch for silverlight. ;o)"
  created: '2007-08-31 15:11:08'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Si will definitely be talking about more than Silverlight, particularly the
    CSS font embedding thing.\r\n\r\nHakon Wie is a little confused/clueless about
    the IP issues, and needs of designers. The main problem with the W3C proposal
    is that it is restricted to freeware/shareware fonts:\r\n\r\n1) Only a tiny percentage
    of the world's high quality fonts that are suitable for extensive body text on-screen
    are also freeware/shareware/open-source. (How many freeware/shareware/open-source
    typefaces are suited to extensive body text at screen res, and have bold and italic
    available?)\r\n\r\n2) The overwhelming majority of the fonts that professional
    graphic designers and web designers have and want to use in their work are not
    shareware/freeware/open-source fonts. Equally importantly, the overwhelming majority
    of fonts used for corporate identities, which those companies want to maintain
    online, are not shareware/freeware/open-source.\r\n\r\nI last blogged on this
    over a year ago, btw. http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2006/03/fonts_on_the_we.html
    - but I didn't focus on the W3C thingie. Another issue is that at least from Hakon's
    posting, it seems to be pushing only TrueType....\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-09-02 01:36:20'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The main problem with the W3C proposal is that it is restricted to
    freeware/shareware fonts:</cite>\r\n\r\nLet the kooks at the W3C limit their ideas
    to OSS/free fonts. It won\u2019t stop the rest of the world from using everything
    else as well. \r\n\r\nHopefully they can be convinced that OpenType support would
    make more sense than limiting us to Truetype, tho.\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-02 02:07:20'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Sorry for coming late to this thread. At ATypI I'll be talking about the
    Hakon proposal and alternatives. \r\n\r\nI wouldn't characterize Hakon's ideas
    as official W3C policy, (although what he proposes is close to what CSS has technically
    allowed for the past ten years) - currently it's a one man crusade to have the
    Web rendered in freeware fonts. What could possibly go wrong? ;-) "
  created: '2007-09-02 16:22:13'
- author:
    name: typovar
    picture: 111800
  body: "I haven't seen [[http://wiki.novemberborn.net/sifr/|sIFR]] in the list of
    things on the web. \r\n"
  created: '2007-09-02 17:25:22'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "Do we really believe that the screens will become bigger and solve part of
    the web typography problem? Maybe a bit of topic but won't screens become smaller
    rather than bigger? Typography for screens in smaller mobile/pda sizes is likely
    to play a bigger role in the future. Will we not see a lot of the communication
    (that today is viewed online on a 20\" in your office) viewed online on a 3\"
    on your way around the city?\r\n\r\nI think this has to be solved by either lobbying
    Microsoft to reintroduce their \"Core fonts for the Web\" program or crossing
    our fingers that Web 3.0 and tomorrows developers brings a solution to this. \r\n\r\nThe
    main problem for both web typography today is an development issue. It is getting
    information past personal firewalls and back without jeapordizing the users identity/security."
  created: '2007-09-04 17:47:03'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>currently it\u2019s a one man crusade to have the Web rendered in freeware
    fonts. What could possibly go wrong? </cite>\r\n\r\nWho said anything about freeware?
    Why would designers use freeware fonts when they could just resave commercial
    fonts in TypeTool with a new name? I'm being smug here, but isn't that what everyone
    is worried about? Sure, if one person was doing it, there would be a lawsuit.
    If lots and lots and lots of people were doing it, who knows what would happen.
    A precise definition of what constitutes a new, distinct font would become critical.
    It might result in more commissioned fonts however. "
  created: '2007-09-04 21:16:38'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>Do we really believe that the screens will become bigger and solve
    part of the web typography problem?</cite>\r\n\r\nNo. Screens will have higher
    resolutions in terms of pixels-per-inch. The current problem is that a lot of
    what is displayed on a screen is not resolution independent. So if you switch
    to a 200 ppi screen, some things will look really small. Text will look sharp,
    but certain user interface elements with current operating systems will become
    unusable. Some OS components, like the dock in Mac OS can already be resized.
    But for the real revolution to occur, <em>everything</em> on screen needs to scale.
    Making the web-scale is another special case. One could imagine a superpowered
    browser rendering engine that would say, automatically resize (resample!?) bitmaps
    as they were being displayed. Images wouldn't look any better, but text would
    be super-sharp. My prediction on this: if anything like this is ever released,
    Apple will do it first. Why? Because they have the luxury of breaking backwards
    compatibility. "
  created: '2007-09-04 21:17:31'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"No, probably not. 10pt type is 10pt type.\"\r\nOh, I hadn't thought of
    that. Is nine point type nine point type then? How about 9.5? is that 9.5 point?\r\n\r\nCheers,
    lol."
  created: '2007-09-04 22:33:30'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Is nine point type nine point type then?\"\r\n\r\nYep. I think you got
    it! ;o)\r\n\r\nMy point, in case you missed it, is that there won't be really
    any demand for minuscule type just because screen resolutions increase. If the
    types too small to comfortably read, it's too small...regardless of the PPI settings
    of the monitor."
  created: '2007-09-05 14:32:11'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "10pt type is only 10pt type on <em>paper</em>. On computer screens 10pt type
    is rarely 10pts in terms of actual measurement. On the web, it's typically (hopefully)
    only a guideline and users will decide for themselves how large to make the text.
    Increased screen resolution wouldn't necessarily cause people to use smaller text,
    but it would affect the choice of font they use. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-05 18:56:14'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"10pt type is only 10pt type on paper. On computer screens 10pt type is
    rarely 10pts in terms of actual measurement.\"\r\n\r\nAt the moment. As of the
    next version of OSX (and I'm sure VISTA to follow if it hasn't already) the OS
    will become resolution independent--meaning you should be able to spec 10pt and
    regardless of the PPI of the screen, it will, indeed, always be 10pt.\r\n\r\nIt
    hasn't been a big deal up 'til now as most screens pixel densities have been between
    72 and, oh...maybe 120 at most. Once we start pushing 200+ then we'll need resolution
    independent software to get the most out of it.\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-05 19:22:23'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>the OS will become resolution independent\u2014meaning you should be
    able to spec 10pt and regardless of the PPI of the screen, it will, indeed, always
    be 10pt.</cite>\r\n\r\nI predict just the opposite, because resolution independence
    will result in text being displayed at whatever size the user prefers. For example,
    if I print a PDF I almost always print it at the default size. If I'm reading
    a PDF on screen, it's set at whatever resolution is easiest to read. I think the
    iPhone also illustrates this trend, where a webpage is shrunk to fit the screen.
    The user then zooms around it to get useful information. "
  created: '2007-09-05 20:56:18'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I predict just the opposite, because resolution independence will result
    in text being displayed at whatever size the user prefers.\"\r\n\r\nWe have that
    now. "
  created: '2007-09-06 14:31:12'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I predict just the opposite\"\r\nThere are two main models, the zoomable
    without options (pdf, tv, leopard, iphone), and the unzoomable with options (browsers,
    Windows, Mac 0SX). \r\n\r\n\"there won\u2019t be really any demand for minuscule
    type just because screen resolutions increase\"\r\nThere already is demand for
    small type at lower resolutions, so I'm curious as to why there would not be at
    higher resolutions. Scratch-scratch? 9 pt at 144 dpi is STILL ONLY 18 pixels.
    hint hint....\r\n\r\n\"you should be able to spec 10pt and regardless of the PPI
    of the screen, it will, indeed, always be 10pt.\"\r\nI'll tell you why not. Fonts
    on screens are integer pixel values that never round to whole point values except
    when functioning in certain ppi resolutions, e.g. 72 or 144. Get it?\r\n\r\nCheerz!"
  created: '2007-09-07 13:44:13'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"There already is demand for small type at lower resolutions, so I\u2019m
    curious as to why there would not be at higher resolutions.\"\r\n\r\nWho is demanding
    unreadable type? ;o)\r\n\r\nOn screen, you're pushing the comfort level of most
    folks at 9pt. Remember that we don't typically read screens any closer than arms
    length. \r\n\r\nHow many annual reports do you set in 5pt type, for instance?
    Even on print there isn't much need for that size of type. Unless you're a lawyer.
    ;o)\r\n\r\n\"I\u2019ll tell you why not. Fonts on screens are integer pixel values
    that never round to whole point values except when functioning in certain ppi
    resolutions, e.g. 72 or 144. Get it?\"\r\n\r\nPoints are a unit of print measurement.
    On screen they're typically mapped to pixels via whatever particular logic the
    particular display software wants to use to translate it. That can/will change
    once the OSes goes resolution independent. At that point, the OS will know the
    PPI density of the screen and be able to map that to whatever real-world print
    measurements you want to use (inchces, points, etc.)...software willing, of course."
  created: '2007-09-07 14:16:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What is the difference between html type on screen and Flash? \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-07 15:39:39'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "Chris: HTML uses the browser font rasterizer, which usually but not always
    (Mozilla) falls back to the operating system for rasterization, whether Flash
    has its own built-in one in several incarnations depending of which version of
    the Flash player you\u2019re running and how the .swf file was compiled. There
    is a short piece by Roger Black, <a href=\"http://www.rogerblack.com/blog/screen_fonts_from_adobes_view\"><cite>Screen
    fonts, from Adobe\u2019s point of view</cite></a>, that gives an overview of the
    issues."
  created: '2007-09-07 15:56:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Antonio!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-07 16:30:35'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"What is the difference between html type on screen and Flash?\"\r\n\r\nVerbosus
    explained the rendering well. From a technical/usability standpoint, the HTML
    text is resizable/stylable by the end-user, and (usually) more machine-readable
    (though one CAN do that with Flash)."
  created: '2007-09-07 18:47:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I hear that Flash alters the outlines and uses fewer splines causing some
    distortion, any truth to that?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-07 19:38:46'
date: '2007-08-29 16:40:46'
title: Trends in Web Typography

---
