---
author:
  name: bruno_maag
body: "We've started to look at our EULA and feel it is necessary to have something
  better in place.\r\n\r\nHave a say what you would like to see: http://www.daltonmaag.com/news/64.html?lang=en\r\n\r\nBruno
  Maag\r\nDalton Maag Ltd"
comments:
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Is this the current EULA?\r\nhttp://www.daltonmaag.com/info/dama/EULA.pdf"
  created: '2007-08-31 11:12:36'
- author:
    name: bruno_maag
  body: "Yes.\r\n\r\nBruno\r\nDalton Maag Ltd"
  created: '2007-08-31 11:27:50'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Hi Bruno:\r\n\r\nAllow a designer/user to take a PDF with your fonts embedded
    to a service bureau without requiring that bureau to have purchased a license-
    great for corporations but bad small guys... who actually follows that- Vodacom?\r\n\r\nLifetime
    version upgrades make consumers feel good too- add that.\r\n\r\nAnd generally
    the Eula is very clear but its too long. Simplify.\r\n\r\nI'm a huge fan of your
    company's work- I'm totally jealous of your loaded clients that get to commission
    exquisite custom type from you guys\r\n\r\nAll my best,\r\n\r\nMike Diaz :-)"
  created: '2007-08-31 13:22:38'
- author:
    name: bruno_maag
  body: "Mike, thanks for your compliment. Trust me though - the clients may be loaded
    but it's easier to get blood from a stone than money from them. This is particularly
    true when you need to sell the idea of a font to them when they simply can use
    one of the increasingly high quality system fonts.\r\n\r\nBruno\r\nDalton Maag
    Ltd"
  created: '2007-08-31 14:04:41'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "My ideal EULA:\r\n\r\nThis font is for your use.\r\n\r\nYou may install it
    on X (at least 2) machines.\r\n\r\nYou may purchase site licenses for your office.\r\n\r\nYou
    may embed it media files (PDF, Flash).\r\n\r\nDo not give or distribute the font
    to others.\r\n\r\nYou may (or may not) modify the font for your own use.\r\n\r\nYou
    may (or may not) modify the font for your client's use (provided they also purchase
    a license).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-31 15:08:16'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I would never even consider buying a font that requires the printer to also
    purchase said font. \r\n\r\nAllow embedding. At the very least allow non-editable
    PDF embedding, and if you aren\u2019t going to allow web (Flash) embedding, make
    it easy for customers to purchase a license for web embedding without having to
    negotiate terms. This will be good for your business as SIFR catches on, and especially
    good when the W3C and Microsoft get web embedded fonts worked out and cross-browser
    web embedding is a reality.\r\n\r\nAllow alterations for internal use, provided
    that the font is not embedded."
  created: '2007-08-31 15:12:47'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Bruno, I've not read your EULA recently. I'll have another read later. But,
    you should consider Adobe's EULA as something to follow.
  created: '2007-08-31 15:43:53'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: 'Like most people, I warrant, my eyes glaze over when faced with a page of
    bulleted legalese. A EULA free of whereases, wherefores, hereins, and herebys
    would be really nice. And don''t change the rules: "this agreement is subject
    to change without notice" is frankly bullsheisse. Make it easy and painless for
    me to adhere to the terms of your EULA, and you''ve got me as a customer.'
  created: '2007-08-31 15:44:52'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "PS; I applaud your asking the question of your customer base. Some of the
    language in your webpage might be nice as an intro to your EULA:\r\n\r\nFonts
    are a valuable asset in the toolbox of every designer and form an integral part
    of publishing, design and branding. It takes great design skill, experience and
    technical expertise to design and engineer a font which will perform across different
    environments. At Dalton Maag we carefully consider every curve, every serif; we
    consider the positioning of accents and superior numerals. But designing a font
    is an ongoing process; once a standard character set is published, we begin to
    plan expansion to other languages, or possibly more styles. We know the same is
    true for many of our colleagues in the font industry. This effort needs to be
    financed and protected to avoid unwitting or unscrupulous font piracy. It is why
    each commercial font has a legal contract, called an End User Licence Agreement
    (EULA), attached.\r\n\r\nA little education goes a long way.\r\n\r\nJN"
  created: '2007-08-31 15:50:39'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "EULA can change without notice. But the EULA which is in effect when you
    license your font software is the EULA that stays with out. You cannot be retroactively
    dinged. Also, the EULA has to be full of legalese it is the language of lawyers.\r\n\r\nBut,
    that does remind me, Bruno you could have a EULA FAQ on your site. P22, House,
    and Adobe have something like this."
  created: '2007-08-31 15:50:50'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "Miss Tiffany, I apologize for my lack of clarity. You are completely right
    that a foundry should change their EULA, but retroactivity is really really crappy.
    The EULA one agreed to at the time of licensing should be the one adhered to,
    not some possible future EULA.\r\n\r\nBut does the EULA REALLY need to be in legalese?
    Will courts not uphold contracts if they are written in plain language? (And don't
    ask our friend Uli...)"
  created: '2007-08-31 16:14:09'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>But does the EULA REALLY need to be in legalese?</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s
    like asking if a Greek font really needs to be in the Latin alphabet, or if it
    can all just be replaced with Cyrillic glyphs. A EULA is\u2014theoretically\u2014a
    legally binding agreement and thus should be written in the style of a legal document."
  created: '2007-08-31 16:25:31'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "Mr Puckett, I don't think I'm being an idiot in asking this question, and
    your analogy is not analogous. I'm simply asking if a legally binding agreement
    needs to be mired in legal mumbo-jumbo. I recently licensed a font, and remember
    the EULA being written in plain English. I forget who it was, but someone biggish.
    And I can't believe that a lawyer didn't approve it.\r\n\r\nJN"
  created: '2007-08-31 16:55:59'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "HA! Yes, Uli you aren't invited to this thread. \r\n\r\nNo, it is a fair
    question. But, the truth is it has to be in the language of the courts. I think
    it might, as you guessed, have to be in order to be \"respected\"."
  created: '2007-08-31 16:58:32'
- author:
    name: bruno_maag
  body: "The legalese language EULAs are written is in fact one of my concerns. I
    don't understand half of it either.\r\n\r\nIt is my aim to have the EULA worded
    as simply as possible. If we can't do that - because of the legality of it - we
    intend to have a translation set up. However, this, again, needs to be approved
    by a lawyer and could (probably) not be considered legally binding so as not to
    contradict the EULA in the first place.\r\n\r\nThe process of buying a font is
    intrinsically linked with the EULA. It's always stumped me why font buying, particularly
    in the domain of multiuser licenses and corporate environements has to be such
    an aruous process. With the EULA we also aim to hopefully achieve very simple
    proceedures for multi users and all sorts of other things. We have written up
    a list of what we feel we need to cover. I am not going to publish this list here,
    though, since I do not want to prejudice your thoughts.\r\n\r\nTiffany, did not
    Adobe recently update its EULAs? From what I understand they have now stopped
    allowing people making modifications to fonts. I will have to read through it,
    though.\r\n\r\nBruno"
  created: '2007-08-31 17:28:20'
- author:
    name: Gary Long
    picture: 112662
  body: "I don't believe there is any actual requirement that a legal contract be
    in \"legalese\" so long as everything is absolutely clear. But lawyers and judges
    understand legalese and it probably makes them wary or uncomfortable when something
    is in plain [your language of choice]. That said, there is mumbo-jumbo legalese
    than only a lawyer can understand, and concise legalese that someone of average
    intelligence but lacking legal training can more or less figure out. It's the
    latter that would be preferred in an EULA.\r\n\r\nAn EULA needs to take into account
    the reality of the publishing world, otherwise it will simply be ignored. These
    \ days a font is fairly useless if it can't be embedded in a pdf, and of course
    one-time users such as a service bureau or printer should not be expected to have
    a licence for a font unless they are actually using it in-house for purposes other
    than simply outputting a client's file. And of course the holder of an EULA should
    have the right to sell or give away a font licence they have purchased, provide
    they don't keep a copy and the recipient agrees to abide by the EULA."
  created: '2007-08-31 18:02:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The problem is that EULAs are written for lawyers and courts. That makes
    it almost impossible for them to make sense to real people. I wish there would
    be a \"Clif Notes\" version also written in actual human language for the poor
    customers and type designers who are just trying to make sense of it all. This
    version would accompany the other and serve as an interpreter.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-31 18:47:29'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"A EULA is\u2014theoretically\u2014a legally binding agreement and thus
    should be written in the style of a legal document.\"\r\n\r\nAn IOU on a cocktail
    napkin can be a legally binding agreement.\r\n\r\nThere is no rule that says 'it's
    a legal document, therefor, obfuscate it as much as you can with inane legal jargon'.\r\n\r\nBut,
    if one must, at least include the 'plain english bullet-point' summary with it.\r\n\r\nThe
    reason most software licenses ARE written in legalese is that they don't actually
    want you to READ it. ;o)"
  created: '2007-08-31 18:49:30'
- author:
    name: Village
  body: "Our EULA* is written in English, and was approved by an attorney. His only
    addition to it was a \"limit of liability\" statement: \"If, after we have worked
    to resolve any technical issues, you are still not satisfied with our product,
    we will be pleased to refund your money, which shall be the limit of our liability
    in this transaction.\"\r\n\r\nThe EULA is as clear as day, and as binding as rope.
    As the majority of our sales are outside of North America, we feel it is very
    important that our EULA be comprehensible to those for whom English is a second,
    third, fourth, or twentieth language.\r\n\r\nTiffany is an authority on, and collector
    of, EULAs, and her thoughts on this matter are always insightful.\r\n\r\n\r\n*The
    EULA was originally written for Thirstype circa 2001, and was later implemented
    for Village, and several of our member foundries. Of our 11 members, 7 of them
    use our plain English EULA: KLIM, Kontour, Lux Typographics, Schwartzco, Thirstype,
    Type Initiative, and Village. Other foundries have asked us if they may use our
    EULA as a template for their own, and the answer is always a resounding \"yes!\"
    Unlike other EULAs, ours is not protected by copyright.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-31 19:10:01'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Thanks for chiming in Chester. \r\n\r\nChester's EULA, which I forgot to
    mention, really is one of the best out there because of the fact that it is understandable
    without a dictionary. If you, Bruno, can get your lawyer to look over Village's
    that would be good as well."
  created: '2007-08-31 19:23:57'
- author:
    name: ybaggar
  body: ">it is very important that our EULA be comprehensible to those for whom English
    is a second, third, fourth, or twentieth language.\r\n\r\nAs one of those(these?),
    i really appreciate, as well as i appreciate this initiative  from daltonmaag!"
  created: '2007-08-31 21:19:03'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: "A few thoughts and pet peeves about EULAs:\r\n\r\nRestricting the number
    of backups is nutty, and benefits no one.\r\n\r\nI think allowing embedding is
    essential, and allowing modification is very nearly essential.\r\n\r\nI'm not
    as concerned with the language of the EULA, although plain language is always
    preferred. \r\n\r\nChester's EULA is great, just great.\r\n\r\nConcerning Adobe's
    EULA, there's been much discussion around here about what sort of mods it allows,
    but Adobe's font FAQ is pretty clear (I quote from <a href=\"http://www.adobe.com/type/browser/legal/pdfs/FontFAQ.pdf\">this
    pdf</a>, which I found on their site today, so I'd say it's current:\r\n\r\n\"11.
    Can I customize a font using font manipulation software?\r\nYou are allowed to
    use font manipulation software to modify the font software to produce \u201Cderivatives\u201D
    of fonts licensed from Adobe, as long as you use the derivatives in accordance
    with the same licensing terms that accompany the original fonts. For example,
    you can use Macromedia Fontographer or Pyrus FontLab to customize an Adobe Font
    for individual usage, but you are not permitted to distribute, sell, or give away,
    the derivative work, and the derivative work counts as one of the permitted number
    of uses.\"\r\n\r\nAs I recall, Thomas Phinney says that the FAQ was written by
    the same team that wrote the EULA."
  created: '2007-08-31 22:12:38'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "That's who it was: Thirstype. But even though I remembered that the EULA
    was easy to understand, I didn't remember who it was, or its terms. I just remembered
    that I found it easy to read, and all of the terms completely reasonable.\r\n\r\nOh,
    and:\r\n\"For example, you can use Macromedia Fontographer or Pyrus FontLab to
    customize an Adobe Font for individual usage...\"\r\nSurely this whole EULA is
    now null and void since there is no such thing as Macromedia Fontographer? (I
    jest.)\r\n\r\nJN"
  created: '2007-08-31 22:59:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>you can use Macromedia Fontographer or Pyrus FontLab to customize an
    Adobe Font for individual usage, but you are not permitted to distribute, sell,
    or give away, the derivative work,</em>\r\n\r\nThat would appear to rule out corporate
    modifications, as only individual usage may be customized. Or does \"individual\"
    mean an individual licencee, e.g. the corporation? It would also appear to rule
    out hiring a third party to do modifications, as they would be selling derivative
    work -- unless they did the work on their client's premises. Not quite as clear
    as Thirstype:\r\n\r\n<em>You may not commission a third party to modify the fonts
    without first gaining permission from the designer through Thirstype.</em>\r\n\r\nor
    Shinntype:\r\n\r\n<em>...you may not distribute, or transfer your adaptations
    without written permission from the Shinn Type Foundry; this means (a) you may
    not make customized versions of the Fonts for use by your clients...</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    similar passage in Bruno's EULA:\r\n\r\n<em>You are permitted to produce a Derivative
    Work of this Font Software solely for your own use...</em>\r\n\r\nThat seems to
    be like Adobe's, in that there is some \"wiggle room\" for a corporation to interpret
    that they can hire a third party to do a modification for them."
  created: '2007-08-31 23:15:44'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "Mr Shinn, you're wrong about Helvetica, but you're right about this. ;-)\r\n\r\nJN"
  created: '2007-09-01 00:14:12'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: If you read Adobe's entire EULA you would get a better grasp of it all. Only
    one part was quoted. Stop looking for opportunities to pick on Adobe. ;^P
  created: '2007-09-01 00:18:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Stop looking for opportunities to pick on Adobe.</em>\r\n\r\nOh, was
    that Adobe again?\r\nThey're everywhere, aren't they!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-01 02:08:43'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: "Yes, the next point in the Adobe FAQ addresses third party mods:\r\n\r\n\"12.
    What is the accepted scope of modification and use of independent consultants,
    hired by companies, to localize or customize font software?\r\nA consultant may
    solicit their services to companies who have legitimately licensed copies of Adobe
    font software. The work product of the consultant must remain with the company.
    The consultant cannot (i) take or keep a copy of the company\u2019s original,
    localized, or customized version of the font software, or (ii) distribute any
    original, localized or customized versions of the font software.\""
  created: '2007-09-01 04:31:15'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">If you read Adobe\u2019s entire EULA you would get a better grasp of it
    all. \r\n\r\nYou know I have to disagree, a sensible person would read the FAQ
    and ignore the EULA - the two documents contradict each other on modification.
    \ The FAQ is definitely more liberal. By the way I\u2019m not a lawyer so do not
    take this as legal advice :-)\r\n\r\nOn the subject of the DM EULA - the 5 devices
    + one printer restriction (drawn from the Adobe EULA of yester-year), is so far
    removed from today's world of laptops, networks, wireless, printers (surely by
    connecting to the internet you're conected to millions of printers?), devices,
    PDAs, flash memory, smartphones, virtualization, backups, time-machine, server
    based font management etc., that it should be thrown out and replaced with a per-user/server
    model (IMHO).\r\n   "
  created: '2007-09-01 15:55:17'
- author:
    name: bruno_maag
  body: "Sii, our present EULA is based on Monotype's from about 6 years ago. As I
    said, it is hopelessly outdated. \r\n\r\nI must admit that Village's EULA is refreshingly
    simple, but I am not sure if it's maybe almost too simplistic and too open for
    interpretation. It very much depends on the good nature and trusing the users.
    I am considering it, however, as a template for our discussions here.\r\n\r\nTiffany,
    I read through Adobe's EULA and found it hard work. There is so much about all
    the other software products in this EULA that as a user I would lose the will
    to live too quickly before reaching any font relevant part. What bits there are
    about fonts are in fact not too different from Village's. Interestingly enough,
    Adobe does make provisions for local legislature, such as Germany and Austria,
    regarding warranty and liability.\r\n\r\nThe longer I think about this, the more
    I believe that a EULA could act as an educational tool (as a previous commentator
    suggested). Maybe Village have gauged it right trusting their user base.\r\n\r\nBruno\r\nDalton
    Maag Ltd"
  created: '2007-09-02 11:29:54'
- author:
    name: bruno_maag
  body: "Sii, our present EULA is based on Monotype's from about 6 years ago. As I
    said, it is hopelessly outdated. \r\n\r\nI must admit that Village's EULA is refreshingly
    simple, but I am not sure if it's maybe almost too simplistic and too open for
    interpretation. It very much depends on the good nature and trusing the users.
    I am considering it, however, as a template for our discussions at Dalton Maag.\r\n\r\nTiffany,
    I read through Adobe's EULA and found it hard work. There is so much about all
    the other software products in this EULA that as a user I would lose the will
    to live too quickly before reaching any font relevant part. What bits there are
    about fonts are in fact not too different from Village's. Interestingly enough,
    Adobe does make provisions for local legislature, such as Germany and Austria,
    regarding warranty and liability.\r\n\r\nThe longer I think about this, the more
    I believe that a EULA could act as an educational tool (as a previous commentator
    suggested). Maybe Village have gauged it right trusting their user base.\r\n\r\nBruno\r\nDalton
    Maag Ltd"
  created: '2007-09-02 11:30:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...as a user I would lose the will to live too quickly before reaching
    any font relevant part. \"\r\n\r\nMy feelings as well :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-02 15:05:17'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Our EULA does not allow modifications. This has been done more as a protection
    for us than trying to be a pain in the butt to our users. Many of our clients
    are engineering firms, architectural firms and DOTs working with our fonts in
    signage and regulated applications. We have chosen to forbid modfications to protect
    ourselves from some user mucking with our fonts, implementing them and then something
    going wrong. \r\n\r\nWe are considering changing the EULA to allow for modifications
    by first obtaining our permission. Does this float anyone's boat?\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2007-09-02 15:39:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I like the idea of getting permission. It requires that the person be on
    record with the foundry so the foundry has some idea of how many mods are out
    there. I would assume you would approve any reasonable request by a client.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-02 16:00:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I think most smaller vendors which prohibit mods have an open-door policy.
    Who\u2019s going to turn down a mod request if there might be some additional
    licenses in it? I think what tends to be missing is good customer-facing content
    related to this, perhaps in the form of an FAQ. Perhaps linking this to a \"modification
    approval request form\" that a customer could fill out \u2013 would give the vendor
    enough detail to say yes or no, without a whole bunch of to-and-fro email. "
  created: '2007-09-02 16:08:43'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "I, too, am inclined to live by the Adobe FAQ (as opposed to trying to make
    sense of the actual EULA). But there are problems with that approach. What if
    Adobe suddenly changes the FAQ, saying that no modifications are allowed?\r\n\r\nOlli"
  created: '2007-09-02 18:01:17'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Without anything formally in place, we have, on occasion, been approached
    by our clients for permission to do modifications. I can't remember any request
    that was not granted.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2007-09-02 19:03:47'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: "Well, James, you may grant most requests, but I was turned down by FontShop
    when I asked for permission to add the f ligs from the \"expert set\" into the
    regular font.\r\n\r\nTheir EULA says, \"If you want to make modifications to the
    Font Software, you must obtain the prior written consent of FSI.\" \r\n\r\nI found
    that, in my case at least, \"must obtain\" meant \"won't obtain\", so I'm leery
    of EULAs like theirs!"
  created: '2007-09-02 20:39:42'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> But there are problems with that approach. What if Adobe suddenly changes
    the FAQ, saying that no modifications are allowed?\r\n\r\nThe Web Archive Project
    should retain the current FAQ. \r\n"
  created: '2007-09-02 21:32:21'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: ">The Web Archive Project should retain the current FAQ.\r\n\r\nBut in court,
    I'd hate to have to resort to citing the FAQ that was current when I did the modifications,
    or bought the licence for the font.\r\n\r\nEDIT: My point is simply that Adobe's
    way of doing things isn't very satisfactory <em>in principle</em> \u2013 though
    in practice, it might be the best that a big, corporate foundry can do. I do appreciate
    the fact they at least don't clearly prohibit modifications.\r\n\r\nThe problem
    with having to ask for a permission to do modifications is precisely that it entails
    the possibility of being turned down. John's experience confirms my fears, showing
    that being knowledgeable about type won't guarantee you getting a permission,
    nor will even wanting to do just practical changes intended to simplify your work
    (as opposed to changing outlines, though I'd like to be able to do that too).\r\n\r\nI
    find that every font needs modifications, and I guess I'd have to ask for a permission
    <em>before</em> even buying a licence if the EULA says \u2013 or seems to say
    \u2013 \"no modifications\".\r\n\r\nOlli"
  created: '2007-09-03 07:29:27'
- author:
    name: bruno_maag
  body: "The modification part is certainly something that we have found a great interest
    for in the design community. I think the reality is that tools are available to
    do this work and that users have a desire to tweak a font to better fit their
    requirements.\r\n\r\nThe problem is not the user who swaps numeral sets around
    in the font for their personal usage (the fonts never leaving his desktop) but
    where modifications are applied and the fonts become part of a grander print job,
    or even corporate project. At this point I would like to have control over what
    is being done.\r\n\r\nI am thinking that Dalton Maag will allow modifications
    in principle. However, we would like to be notified of such an intent and have
    first refusal to do the work. Where it is a simple job that is solely for the
    purpose of personal use, we probably would not want to be involved as we could
    not justify the cost of doing this. However, where the project is more of a commercial
    nature, where the fonts are being distributed afterwards we probably would want
    to do the work ourselves for the following reasons:\r\n\r\n- Quality control:
    As the copyright notice and parts of the font name may remain as per original,
    it is possible that we may be called to provide tech support for a product we
    have not created. By insisting of either doing the work in-house, or at least
    have a quality testing, we can help with support queries and ensure that the client
    receives a product that matches our standards.\r\n\r\n- Distribution control and
    license fees: as the modification will be a derivative product, the copyright
    remains with us and we're entitled to license fees. Being informed and having
    participated in the work will allow us to negotiate licensing and distribution.
    \r\n\r\n- Recommercialisation: some modifications, such as language extensions
    or typographic features may be of interest to us. We would potentially want to
    integrate these into our own library and recommercialise them.\r\n\r\nThis is
    not to make the process more complicated but to ensure that everyone is compensated
    fairly and that the client receives the best possible quality.\r\n\r\nBruno\r\nDalton
    Maag Ltd"
  created: '2007-09-03 10:36:03'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Bruno: <em>\"The longer I think about this, the more I believe that a EULA
    could act as an educational tool...\"</em>\r\n\r\nI fully agree with you. My continuing
    education on the subject cements my belief that \"the EULA\" actually represents
    a spectrum of EULAs over time, and a rank of EULAs for the customer base at any
    given time. The overriding goal of course, being to provide with the software,
    an agreement that is understandable and workable for the legal user of any language.
    So, in order to do this, a bidirectional education, like this thread, or any one
    of the hundreds of conversations we have with clients, is part of that tool.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-09-04 16:01:42'
- author:
    name: uglamarekowa
  body: "@ John Nolan: We can\u2019t recall neither at FontShop International in Berlin
    nor in San Francisco that we have turned down such a request like yours. We want
    to be asked for permission of modifications, mainly to respect our designers and
    to keep track of modified FontFont versions. Dependent on the character and purpose
    of the requested modification we decide individually whether we or the type designer
    or our font technicians do the modification or if we just allow the customer to
    do it. It\u2019s also a support problem \u2013 we can only give technial support
    for fonts we have produced."
  created: '2007-09-05 12:46:54'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: "I should have been more specific:\r\n\r\nI was not granted permission to
    modify the font _myself_.\r\n\r\nI did not pursue to its conclusion the option
    of having FontShop do the work, because I felt the cost would be too high, and
    the process too time consuming...I never got a real quote, but I vaguely remember
    getting the impression it would be about $25 per character. \r\n\r\nFurther, I
    was asked which character slot I would like the f ligs placed in, in spite of
    the fact that I had stated that the modication I wanted to make was in order to
    have the ligs  available to InDesign. This indicated that the particular need
    I was hoping to address was not understood by the questioner, so I didn't have
    confidence that the work would be done correctly. I could have done it myself
    in 20 minutes, including adding new kerns. Life's too short.\r\n\r\nMy initial
    request for permission was dated July 14, 2005.\r\n\r\nHere are some excepts from
    _some_ of the  emails I got from Danny Dawson in 2005:\r\n\r\nAug. 5, 05:\r\n\"This
    all means that you are effectively prohibited from making the changes yourself.
    There may be situations I am not aware of where you would be granted permission
    to make the changes yourself, but those situations are not mentioned in the packet
    I was given.\"\r\n\r\nIn August 9, 05 Danny said:\r\n\"I don't quite have answers
    for you yet, but I am still looking into (1) costs for the modifications you've
    inquired about and (2) further EULA language clarification. Unfortunately, international
    communication moves at its own pace, and this is further complicated by the legal
    complexities of the subject matter, so I do apologize that my responses aren't
    more prompt.\"\r\n\r\nAug. 23, 05:\r\n\"As for clarifying our current EULA, I
    am *still* waiting for an enumerated list of things you are allowed to do on your
    own without paying FontShop for customizations. I'll let you know when I hear
    more.\"\r\n\r\n...the thread ends here, probably because I told Danny I was no
    longer interested. I also spoke to Danny on the phone about all this. I don't
    remember exactly when I told Danny \"I give up.\""
  created: '2007-09-05 14:28:05'
- author:
    name: uglamarekowa
  body: "Thanks for the recap, John \u2013 with this info I was able to find emails
    regarding this particular issue after all and see that communication within our
    company was lacking. A rather unfortunate instance which I think/hope is rare.
    In Summer 2005, we had just changed our EULA to make it more userfriendly in general
    (eg use of laptops, embedding, service bureaus) though we did make a point about
    not allowing modification per se, for the reasons I gave above. As I said, in
    general we try to meet our customers\u2019 needs, and in a timely manner. So do
    not give up on us ;-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-05 14:58:58'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "@ Simon\r\n\r\n<em>You know I have to disagree, a sensible person would read
    the FAQ and ignore the EULA</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think I was saying that. I was
    simply saying if someone really wanted to know the information is there. Trust
    me, I've read that EULA a few times now and it still takes patience. In fact,
    ALL EULAs written by a lawyer for other lawyers take time to read. I think the
    FAQ is a good way to cut to the chase, but in a court of law the EULA would be
    what is referred to and not the FAQ. "
  created: '2007-09-05 16:01:37'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "@ Otto\r\n\r\n<em>What if Adobe suddenly changes the FAQ, saying that no
    modifications are allowed?</em>\r\n\r\nIt is illegal to do that. The fonts you
    licensed remain powered by the EULA under which you licensed them. \r\n\r\nAlthough
    this is a conundrum because some EULAs, as DAMA's, are being improved. Do those
    who licensed before need to contact the foundries to upgrade their EULAs?\r\n\r\nEdit:
    I see that you said basically what I was saying. A court of law would use the
    FAQ as part of the case, but don't you think the EULA would bind? I suppose it
    depends upon what is being tried."
  created: '2007-09-05 16:04:17'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>It is illegal to do that. The fonts you licensed remain powered by
    the EULA under which you licensed them.</cite>\r\n\r\nActually Tiffany I don't
    think this is true. I believe there is something in contract law that allows the
    changing of the EULA to affect previous licensing that occurred under different
    EULA terms. But I am not a lawyer so don't quote me."
  created: '2007-09-05 16:50:01'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<cite>- Miss Tiffany: \"It is illegal to do that.\"\r\n- Mr. Montalbano:
    \"Actually Tiffany I don\u2019t think this is true.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nSuch \"I don't
    think so\" arguments are not of much use.\r\n\r\nI repeat here what I said in
    another thread:\r\n\r\n<strong>My recommendation for the American Typophile website
    is that they badly need an independent American design law and copyright law expert,
    who is not affiliated with a certain font company, for answering legal questions,
    because there seems to be much need among Typophilers for reliable legal information
    in these matters.</strong>\r\n\r\nExperts such as Mr. Frank Martinez will not
    do, for he is affiliated with certain font companies and hence will only supply
    biased information in favor of his clients. What is needed is an independent expert,
    who also takes care of the \"end users\".\r\n\r\nI think, in a country of the
    size of the USA, it should be possible to find an independant professor of law
    who is willing to supply independent answers on questions like those discussed
    in this thread.\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-05 17:37:41'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "@ Bruno\r\n\r\n<em>The longer I think about this, the more I believe that
    a EULA could act as an educational tool </em>\r\n\r\nI agree with this completely.
    You can learn a lot about a foundry by their EULA. Of course, some of what you
    might learn is based upon assumptions, but it is still interesting to read it
    in that way. In many instances you can ascertain how much value, for instance,
    a foundry considers their fonts to be adding to any given user. "
  created: '2007-09-05 18:19:30'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "@ Patty\r\n\r\nNot to be a list mom or anything...Although most people probably
    do it anyway, it isn't supportable behavior. I think your comment in another thread
    is better. If you don't like the foundry's EULA don't license from them. I'm paraphrasing."
  created: '2007-09-05 18:25:13'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I'm editing this thread - so it will fall out of order (grrrr) and make Tiffany's
    comment seem strange.\r\n\r\nA few EULA requests:\r\n\r\n1. Allow embedding.\r\n\r\n2.
    Allow transferring. If I have no use for a font after a job is done I'd be happy
    to turn the license over to the client along with the font.\r\n\r\n3. Allow the
    font to accompany the job to the printer without requiring the printer to purchase
    an additional license. \r\n\r\n4. Allow making a backup copy for archiving purposes.
    \r\n\r\n5. Make the license per user, not per machine.\r\n\r\nIt is my belief
    (as stated in other threads) that absent any ability to effectively police users,
    overly restrictive and/or wordy EULAs encourage violation, or encourage designers
    not to buy fonts. I don't read most EULAs word for word, but I don't resell or
    give away fonts either. I just use them to get my work done. It ought to be that
    simple. "
  created: '2007-09-05 18:43:56'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "I have seen EULAs with terms like this: \"This license granted herewith is
    subject to change without notice.\" Which is pretty clear. In agreeing to this
    EULA you are agreeing to be bound by the terms of future versions of the EULA.
    If these terms are in any EULA for a typeface I am interested in, I lose my interest
    pretty quickly.\r\n\r\nJN"
  created: '2007-09-05 19:39:49'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Maybe that is what I was actually thinking about. The fact that an EULA can
    change without notice seems highly questionable to me. For some reason I'm thinking
    about an old FontFont EULA. Can someone corroborate? Their EULA used to say this
    but they had to remove it due to legal reasons?
  created: '2007-09-05 19:52:44'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I think Patty's requests are reasonable. Especially points 1, 2, 4, and 5.
    I'd imagine the fact that Patty does a lot of publishing work gives weight to
    her wishing to send the fonts to the printers. Printers who do books don't want
    PDFs. The printers that I work with for a client for whom I design books said
    point blank no PDFs. So, I had to get everyone on the same page and licensing
    some fonts. It was like pulling teeth, but in the end it worked out. (My nightmare
    would be that this was a lie.)\r\n\r\nThe fact is that PDFs are how most presses
    work now. As long as the designer can set up a decent PDF there is little to no
    reason why the fonts have to leave the designer's computer anymore."
  created: '2007-09-05 19:56:42'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "I did a little google-ing, and came across this article:\r\nhttp://blogs.techrepublic.com.com/tech-news/?p=940\r\n\r\nJN"
  created: '2007-09-05 20:45:03'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>I think, in a country of the size of the USA, it should be possible
    to find an independant professor of law who is willing to supply independent answers
    on questions like those discussed in this thread.</cite>\r\n\r\nAt how much per
    hour?"
  created: '2007-09-05 20:53:10'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I think changing a EULA, which could potentially limit usage where a user
    once had it, isn''t quite the same as changing the way a website works. But I
    get the analogy. '
  created: '2007-09-05 21:27:16'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "Miss Tiffany, perhaps you didn't read the first two words of the first paragraph:\r\n\"Contracts
    on Web sites now can\u2019t change without at least a notice to users who agreed
    to earlier versions, says the progressive (and therefore oft-overruled) U.S. Court
    of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.\"\r\n\r\nJN"
  created: '2007-09-05 21:51:49'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: No, I did understand. I just didn't include the word "contract". I understand.
    If a site drastically changes and I count on the site to pay bills, let's say,
    and I go there to pay my bills but I can't find the button which I was previously
    used to ... Well, I can understand how it is in the best interest of the users
    of the site to know when the site will change. I think that is good and fair.
    But I don't think someone who has purchased something, a font in this case, should
    have to deal with a new EULA. If I licensed a font from Widget Foundry specifically
    because they allow web embedding and they then change their EULA to disallow this
    I'm up a creek without a paddle. SOL. Even if the foundry emailed me to warn me
    how does that serve the customer? I think changing a EULA is different from changing
    a website. Hopefully, in both cases, change will be for the positive, but sometimes
    not so much. I think a EULA should stand and if a customer wants to be able to
    have their fonts under the new EULA it should be a free choice by the customer
    and not the foundry.
  created: '2007-09-05 22:44:40'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "Miss Tiffany, I completely 100% agree with you. And so does the 9th Circuit.
    Like I said, if I am told that the terms of a EULA may change and that such changes
    will be my responsibility to adhere to... To hell with that! The 9th Circuit is
    protecting consumers against the ability for companies to change terms of contracts
    on the Web willy-nilly. Contracts on paper cannot be argued with. Contracts online
    can change on a whim.\r\n\r\nJN"
  created: '2007-09-06 00:25:15'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: "So, Ugla, now that you've found the correspondence, can you give me some
    answers?\r\n\r\nGiven that I won't redistribute, that the modified fonts would
    only be for my use, and that I won't expect support:\r\n\r\nIf I want to integrate
    the f ligs from, say, Seria expert into the regular font, can I? \r\n\r\nIf I
    want to integrate the small caps and make an OpenType version, can I?"
  created: '2007-09-06 03:50:36'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "pattyfab: \"5. Make the license per user, not per machine.\"\r\n\r\nWhat
    is a \"user\" as defined in your EULA?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-09-06 04:23:56'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I am a one-person operation but have 3 computers and 2 printers. Most EULAs
    seem to allow 5 or 6 devices which is cool. But I think it should be by the number
    of people, not machines. I have a friend who is a web designer/retoucher/high
    end printer and has oodles of equipment. I don't think he should have to pay more
    than I do.
  created: '2007-09-06 05:50:05'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" But I think it should be by the number of people, not machines.\"\r\nI
    think you are not understanding my position. I have to license software to a number
    of \"somethings\". The software is installed on, and used from machines, not people.
    My clients have requested that they be asked to count machines, not people. People
    leave, and they must know that the fonts stay. \r\n\r\nAs I've said before, Patty,
    you can find friends who don't fit, my model, or anyone's model all day long.
    But the fact is, we have a model that 95% of users, you included, it seems, fit
    into without legal stress. Beyond that, we have \"the enterprise\" license, which
    means a client doesn't even have to count the machines. \r\n\r\ncheers!"
  created: '2007-09-07 14:09:39'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'This is definitely a sticky situation. I understand both sides, user and
    foundry. It is easier to count computers when someone has to audit their system,
    especially in a larger company. But the fact remains that for the freelancers
    and single person studios that might have 2 or 3 computers, and a couple printers,
    but only 1 person, it can be tough. '
  created: '2007-09-07 16:55:45'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>People leave, and they must know that the fonts stay.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut
    machines come and go too. If I buy a new printer or an additional computer I'm
    not going to re-license all my fonts. I'd prefer a pricing structure that dealt
    with the number of employees in the studio. Or, at least, the number of CPUs exclusive
    of printers. \r\n\r\nWhich is why I like the system some foundries have where
    there's a license for up to 5 or 6 machines, then another license for, say, 6-10
    machines. HTF has a fee for one device then it's another $100 per machine, which
    is untenable for a one-person studio like mine. "
  created: '2007-09-07 17:09:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Chester,\r\n\r\nAre you still offering your EULA for adaptation by other
    foundries?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-07 17:35:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"But machines come and go too... Or, at least, the number of CPUs exclusive
    of printers.\"\r\nThey don't do it \"on their own\", (yet). (-: and we don't count
    printers. I'm not sure how explain it any better, but you don't seem to leave
    any room for us to do this legally, while complaining that we don't leave you
    to do things legally. I mean, I can go into any licensee and count the number
    of computers if I need to. You tell me!? how am I s'posed to count people and
    check a license? how are you going to count people and license correctly? \"oh,
    two of my employees left, now I want a cheaper license\" or even better yet, \"I
    just hired two people and I'm calling the Font Bureau to pay you more now for
    the license\" ??? Buying a new machine and installing fonts on it, is a legal
    threshold a user goes over completely conciously, it leaves its mark on the machine
    and makes a site that much more useful. Counting people means we have to listen
    to all the nonsense imaginable about who actually uses fonts, and quite frankly,
    that's not any of our business.\r\n\r\n\"HTF has a fee for one device then it\u2019s
    another $100 per machine, which is untenable for a one-person studio like mine.\"\r\nIf
    you want to find a difficult group of users to license to, and a difficult foundry
    to license from, I'm sure you can make things really look impossible. . .\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-08 00:45:45'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "Mr. Berlow makes a very good point. \r\n\r\nYou could have a studio with
    20 designers in it, and your entire library of fonts on all 20 of their machines.
    But on any given second, only 10 designers are using that particular font. So,
    you only need to license your 20 machines for 10 users.\r\n\r\nOr to make the
    granularity even finer: Of those 10 designers, only 1 is actually using the Bold
    Italic weight of the font at any given moment. At this very second, the Bold Italic
    weight is in several documents being worked on by those 10 designers, but two
    of them are taking their lunch break, one is retouching a photograph, three are
    checking their email, one is spell-checking in Word, one is in the bathroom, one
    is using the Roman Small Caps, and only one is using the Bold Italic font.\r\n\r\nSo,
    of the 20 computers in your studio, you really only use any given font on one
    computer at any given time. So, all you need is a license for one computer.\r\n\r\nJN"
  created: '2007-09-08 02:26:57'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "NewGuy - that system works fine for me, I'm only ever using one computer
    at a time, but I'm not sure it would fly with HTF which wants me to purchase a
    license for each of the three machines I actually own.\r\n\r\nI guess the solution
    is one license per \"workstation\" which can include a desktop, a laptop and one
    or two printers. That should satisfy David's need to count.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I operate
    in good conscience - I purchase my fonts at the minimum level as I work alone,
    and I don't share them."
  created: '2007-09-08 04:54:48'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "Ms. Fabricant, I'm sure you understand that I was trying to make the point
    that for foundries and licensees, the per-computer model is the best one, as it
    deals with tangibles. My model was idiotic. It's like saying that the price you
    pay for a garment should be based upon how much you intend to wear that garment.\r\n\r\nJN"
  created: '2007-09-08 05:35:32'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "All I'm saying is I think there should be some flexibility to the model.\r\n\r\nIt
    doesn't help anyone if fonts are prohibitively expensive for independent designers
    or small studios. I'm not trying to game the system but if I have to pay hundreds
    of extra dollars to install a font on my laptop as well as my iMac then I won't
    buy the fonts and everybody loses."
  created: '2007-09-08 05:52:37'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "But Patty HFJ and Font Bureau caters to large design firms, newspapers, publishing
    houses, huge corporations, etc. Yes they sell to you and me but its the big guys
    were they make the most money on licenses. That's why they are so 'stingy' because
    the big guys have money and will pay it. They should have something for very small
    offices or one man shows- the 1-5 that most foundries allow. I guess when you
    are the best, you can demand the best too. \r\n\r\nFunny though, at least for
    HF&J, I think the initial pricing is very good, though maybe not as awesome as
    Adobe's pricing.\r\n\r\nLaptops should be included in 1 license.\r\n\r\nPDF's
    internal or large scale should be included too. Again this fee is for the corporations
    and it has nothing to do with security either. \r\n\r\nMikey :-)\r\n\r\nPS...
    A broad naive question: I wonder which model makes more money- expensive and caters
    to big corps. or affordable and very generous? "
  created: '2007-09-08 09:10:03'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "It would be nice if more foundries offered tiered licenses, i.e. for individuals,
    small businesses (fewer than, say, 15 employees), and larger enterprises. \r\n15
    is probably an arbitrary number, but I think that is where a lot of other special
    business requirements kick in. But yes, people come and go, and even in a one-person
    studio equipment gets retired and added. Having to relicense everything because
    I buy a new computer and put the old one in the closet without erasing the HD
    would be a thorough pain. It's tough enough transferring the applications that
    have mechanisms for enforcing their EULA over to the new machine."
  created: '2007-09-08 16:38:36'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "<em>...HTF which wants me to purchase a license for each of the three machines
    I actually own.</em>\r\n...I guess it could be worse, they could ask you to license
    for other people's machines too! (hadn't thought of that angle).\r\n\r\n<em>All
    I\u2019m saying is I think there should be some flexibility to the model.</em>\r\nI'm
    in full agreement. And, e.g. H and F-J fonts are both available in bundles from
    OS vendors for as many machines as you want! \r\n\r\n<em>It doesn\u2019t help
    anyone if fonts are prohibitively expensive for independent designers or small
    studios.</em>\r\nWell...it is clear that it doesn't help some independent designers,
    some small studios, and most students to fonts priced very high. It'd be a big
    problem if all fonts were priced that way, but they ain't...now.\r\n\r\nThe existence
    of designers able to convince clients of the value of expensive fonts for exclusive
    or semi-exclusive use is one of the driving forces in type design, since Herr
    Gutenberg started this. Imagine where you'd be without the predecessors of H&FJ,
    e.g.?\r\n\r\nPerhaps you should take a walk in them olden days, when fonts could
    break your toes, were hard to copy, the same price again if the typesetter chewed
    it up, or a fire melted it, and if you bought another machine and wanted to use
    a font on both...Pricing and profits then didn't make anyone rich, so imagine
    today, won't you?  \r\n\r\nThe users of typewriters, typesetters, Kroy lettering
    guns, wine label makers, newspaper designers, magazine art directors, web heads,
    students, hobbyists, brides, book makers and fancy font flakes all share the same
    platform, the same formats, and the same font pool, in theory. EULAs slice it
    up. So, exactly which part of the font baby do you want cut off for you? and please,
    don't tell me again you just want the head, and promise it won't hurt. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-09-09 15:49:15'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Ouch! I'm just trying to make a living and be able to afford to buy new fonts
    from time to time. I'm not trying to take off your head!
  created: '2007-09-09 19:12:17'
- author:
    name: bruno_maag
  body: "I have just come back from an InDesign conferencen in Switzerland. The audience
    there was mainly made up of people from the printing industry - prepress, printers,
    data processing, publishing. I noted with interest the absence of design/brand
    agencies.\r\n\r\nHowever, I realised that we have been focussing our sales and
    EULA models very much on the design industry. The people I met have quite different
    needs, particularly when it comes to modification, font/project archiving etc.
    In regards to modifications, they often only need minor tweaks, such as adding
    specialist glyphs etc. Whilst we could provide this service, our fees do not make
    economic sense, or we simply cannot turn it around fast enough. I am now planning
    to allow modifications on the basis that we are asked permission and retain rights.
    \r\n\r\nAnother point that has struck me is that Adobe's InDesign also comes with
    a server version that will allow copy input via a web terminal. In theory anyone
    inputting copy will not have to have the font resident. This undermines our revenue
    and I am certain we can create a EULA that, again expressly benefits both user
    and font designer/foundry.\r\n\r\nI am now full of ideas on this subject and hopefully
    I will have a draft version of our new EULA ready. In fact, I am inclined not
    to call it EULA anymore but UGC (User Guidance and Conditions).\r\n\r\nBruno"
  created: '2007-09-10 16:12:23'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "<em>Well...it is clear that it doesn\u2019t help some independent designers,
    some small studios, and most students to fonts priced very high. It\u2019d be
    a big problem if all fonts were priced that way, but they ain\u2019t...now.</em>
    \r\n\r\nFont Bureau's fonts are certainly expensive.\r\n\r\n<em>The existence
    of designers able to convince clients of the value of expensive fonts for exclusive
    or semi-exclusive use is one of the driving forces in type design</em> \r\n\r\nA
    driving force at Font Bureau anyway.\r\n\r\n<Em>Perhaps you should take a walk
    in them olden days, when fonts could break your toes, were hard to copy, the same
    price again if the typesetter chewed it up, or a fire melted it, and if you bought
    another machine and wanted to use a font on both...Pricing and profits then didn\u2019t
    make anyone rich, so imagine today, won\u2019t you?\r\nThe users of typewriters,
    typesetters, Kroy lettering guns, wine label makers, newspaper designers, magazine
    art directors, web heads, students, hobbyists, brides, book makers and fancy font
    flakes all share the same platform, the same formats, and the same font pool,
    in theory. EULAs slice it up. So, exactly which part of the font baby do you want
    cut off for you? and please, don\u2019t tell me again you just want the head,
    and promise it won\u2019t hurt. ;) </em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps you should see what every
    other major foundry is doing with their EULA- Adobe, Monotype, FontShop, URW++,
    and Linotype. 5 devices per license is the standard.  Exceptions are DTL, Enshede,
    Font Bureau and HF&J. These companies cater to the upper echelon of the market
    where a typical invoice carries the price tag of library of type elsewhere. Corporate
    users need your services. And we love looking at their newspapers and magazines.
    But buying Novia is not buying Photoshop and its certainly not metal type either,
    especially since software is the highest profit margin product every in history.
    If I have a laptop do I really want to call you people up and say \"please charge
    me double now\"? With endusers there will always be question mark when contemplating
    a purchase from your company (and the others) because of this- honest users anyway.\r\n\r\nDid
    you really have to blow up Patty like that? \r\n\r\nMike Diaz"
  created: '2007-09-10 23:37:34'
- author:
    name: bruno_maag
  body: "I have thought about licensing fonts on a per user basis, rather than workstation.
    But at the moment I cannot get it clear in my head how I would solve the conundrum
    of maintaining someone's account who has fluctuating needs. The administrative
    effort required would gobble up all revenue the font sales make. In order to make
    any money at all on font sales it has to be automated, online with Credit Card
    payment. I cannot afford to start creating individual, user driven specific licenses.\r\n\r\nPatty,
    David B's response may have sounded somewhat harsh, but he has a point. We, too,
    are trying to make a living. And considering that an average OpenType font today
    costs in the region of UK\xA330 (approx US$60) with many of them offering fantastic
    functionality, I don't think that it is expensive. Remember that you can use this
    font over and over, paying only once. \r\n\r\nUnless we can create some online
    models that monitor the use of the fonts on any users machine, there is no way
    to charge on a per use/time basis. I wish there would be functionality for having
    the fonts being loaded into a users cache and that every time you hit the keyboard
    with that font you pay a fee, accumulating in your account. Based on the number
    of keystrokes, or seconds used, you will receive an invoice. A little bit like
    phone usage. Unfortunately, there is no such system in place. \r\n\r\nCiting Adobe,
    when it comes to font pricing, is probably one of the worst examples possible.
    Adobe make great fonts, but fonts is not their business. Software programs are.
    Fonts merely serve as value added extras. For the likes of Fontbureau and ourselves
    fonts are our daily bread. If you use the my font without paying, I can't buy
    my son a Xmas present. It's as simple as that.\r\n\r\nIt is also worth noting
    that many of the smaller foundries price on exclusivity rather than quantity.
    The big font retailers make their money through selling quantity.\r\n\r\nIn this
    pricing debate it is interesting to note how people moan how expensive fonts are.
    They are not! They cost considerably less than an iPhone and gives you far more
    satisfaction and longevity. You can also earn money from investing in fonts. Remember
    that without fonts you cannot do design.\r\n\r\nBruno Maag"
  created: '2007-09-11 11:42:19'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I am not bemoaning the prices (except perhaps DTL!) I just believe the EULAs
    should be in line with how people use fonts. I recognize that my needs and finances
    are very different than, say, a design firm doing an identity for a bank. I consider
    fonts a necessary work expense and I don't share them. I am also very appreciative
    of the hard work that goes into making a font. But I do resent being asked to
    pay an extra fee in order to embed a font into a pdf (which is an essential part
    of workflow) or to install the same font on my laptop as well as my desktop computer.
  created: '2007-09-11 16:16:02'
- author:
    name: bruno_maag
  body: "Patty, I understand your latest comments, and actually agree with them. As
    far as I am concerned I don't really care on what device you use my font, just
    as long as you're licensed within the number you specified at point of purchase.
    I also don't give a monkey's in what geographic location the font is, because
    I recognise that offices have different locations. As for me, you can put your
    office on the moon and use my fonts there.\r\n\r\nEmbedding into PDF is definitely
    an issue and we will give this. However, we're presently debating what usage right
    to give - Print&Preview or Editable Embedding. I appreciate that from a work flow
    point of view Editable is desiered. However, at this point you go beyond the basic
    function of reading and printing and actually add a functionality to the document
    that is not possible without the font. Should this not be paid for??\r\n\r\nBruno
    Maag"
  created: '2007-09-11 16:58:44'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "My 2 cents: I never make editable PDFs. They are for Print & Preview only.
    Any editing of my jobs is done in the native software.\r\n\r\nHowever in my business
    I need often to send the native file to the printer, with the font, and also to
    the client (publisher) for archiving. I always request that they delete the font
    from their servers or anyplace it can be accessed and reused. It is an honor system,
    just as this whole business is. I have to trust the client not to abuse the EULA
    just as you have to trust me not to give it to all my designer friends."
  created: '2007-09-11 17:03:56'
- author:
    name: bruno_maag
  body: "Interesting you should mention archiving. This is something we may actually
    include in the EULA - the permission to pack a font with a project for archive
    purposes. That would ensure that when the project is picked up again the correct
    version of fonts are available. \r\n\r\nYes font sales/usage very much depend
    on trust. App developers have more protection as they can add serial numbers to
    their products. In theory that is possible, too, with fonts but none of the OSs
    have any mechanisms to recognise such management mechanisms. And who wants to
    go through a lengthy install and registration proceedure every time they want
    to use a font. \r\n\r\nThe technologies exist to make font usage far more efficient
    for both user and vendor. But none of the system, app and browser developers give
    font management (and its associated digital rights management) any thought. To
    them fonts are plankton. Available in abundance and worth nothing.\r\n\r\nBruno
    Maag"
  created: '2007-09-11 17:26:32'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Did you really have to blow up Patty like that?\"\r\nNo, I could apparently
    choose instead to walk up to her business and say, \"I love your work. Do it for
    1/5 of the price, or I'm gonna rip it off.\" \r\n\r\nThis below:\r\n<em> \"My
    2 cents: I never make editable PDFs. They are for Print & Preview only. Any editing
    of my jobs is done in the native software.</em>\r\n\r\n<em>However [] I [] send
    the native file to the printer, with the font, and also to the client[]. I always
    request that they delete the font from their servers []. It is an honor system,
    just as this whole business is. I have to trust the client not to abuse the EULA
    just as you have to trust me not to give it to all my designer friends.\" </em>\r\n\r\nLOL!
    I don't trust you not to give it to all your designer friends, I write a Eula
    that prevents it from legally happening. I must LICENSE the client not to abuse
    the EULA, not work on your trust with them...\r\n\r\nYou complain that font prices
    are too high for you to make a living, (you want us to design, produce, manufacture,
    license and support a product for $8.00 per machine before royalties), but then
    you expose yourself to career-crushing litigation to save your clients $40-$80.
    That sounds stupid, doesn't it?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n. \r\n"
  created: '2007-09-12 12:17:19'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>\u201CDid you really have to blow up Patty like that?\u201D\r\nNo,
    I could apparently choose instead to walk up to her business and say, \u201CI
    love your work. Do it for 1/5 of the price, or I\u2019m gonna rip it off.\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nOh
    blow me. In fact you do have to trust me. Because I doubt it's worth your while
    to go after every designer who may or may not have embedded your precious fonts
    in a pdf. \r\n\r\nDesigners are not your enemy David (altho you've made one in
    me) and you'd be out of business without us. Be a cold day in hell before I buy
    a font from FontBureau again. \r\n\r\nThere was no need for personal attacks here.
    I was just trying to state my case. We are all entitled to opinions and mine has
    in fact received some support on this forum."
  created: '2007-09-12 14:44:38'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<cite>Oh blow me.</cite>\r\n\r\nSorry, I am not familiar with American slang.
    Is the expression \"Blow me\" the invitation to what is called in Webster's dictionary
    a \"blow-job\" ?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-12 15:41:04'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: It's a schoolyard insult. Not a sexual innuendo.
  created: '2007-09-12 15:47:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The [[http://www.fontbureau.com/cart/license/|FontBureau EULA]] allows a
    back-up copy and embedding in a PDF to be sent to a printer. \r\n\r\nJust looking
    around at other EULAs, if I read them rightly neither Adobe nor Monotype Imaging
    nor FontFont allows giving fonts to a printer who hasn't licensed them. \r\n\r\nThe
    [[http://vllg.com/Village/GalaxieCassiopeia/Licensing/|Village EULA]] is the only
    one I've found that allows sending them to a \"prepress bureau\" without further
    license. "
  created: '2007-09-12 18:04:31'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Although I mainly send font-embedded pdfs to printers mainly, I too would
    send the artwork with fonts to a printer if requested with a similar request and
    expectation as Patty\u2019s. Frankly to expect anything else is unrealistic.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-09-12 18:41:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "This area of uses of fonts by printers seems to be one of disconnect between
    some responsible designers and pretty much all foundries, with the exception of
    Village. And even their EULA says \"if absolutely necessary\" so it's a reluctant
    permission. \r\n\r\nWould it be possible for there to be a special \"printer's
    license\" which allows printers to use a font for manufacturing only, for clients
    of the printers who also have licenses? That way foundries would keep legal control
    over the font, but the printers could buy--or have bought for them in their name--a
    cheaper license for manufacturing purposes only. Does that make any sense?  "
  created: '2007-09-12 18:55:46'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I guess my point is, if I'm paying for a EULA that doesn't allow me to either
    show my client the job or send it to a printer (either embedded in a PDF or along
    with the native files) then the font is of little use to me. \r\n\r\nI haven't
    read all the EULAs but know Emigre and House both charge an additional fee for
    embedding, altho they do allow back-up."
  created: '2007-09-12 19:20:06'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>The Village EULA is the only one I\u2019ve found that allows sending
    them to a \u201Cprepress bureau\u201D without further license.</cite>\r\n\r\nWe
    allow this in our EULA as well.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2007-09-12 19:20:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I am certain we can create a EULA that, again expressly benefits both
    user and font designer/foundry.</em>\r\n\r\n[re InDesign server]\r\n\r\nOne idea
    is to offer a single-fee per annum (renewable) licence for such web-document usage.\r\nAs
    I understand it, the fonts are not installed on the licensee's website, but on
    the InDesign server(s) -- a third party, as it were, avoiding the problem of direct
    exposure of the fonts on the internet.\r\nSeems like a nice idea, Adobe.\r\nI
    will be putting this in my next EULA.\r\n\r\n<em>blow me</em>\r\n\r\nIt's a contraction
    of \"blow me down with a feather\", indicating that one is so surprised the slightest
    touch would knock one over.\r\n\r\n\"Well, blow me down, Jeeves, if you haven't
    struck the nail right on the head.\" (P.G. Wodehouse)"
  created: '2007-09-12 20:37:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The Village EULA is the only one I\u2019ve found that allows sending
    them to a \u201Cprepress bureau\u201D without further license.</em>\r\n\r\nI do
    too. \r\nThis sort of thing is listed in Tiffany's comparative chart of EULAs."
  created: '2007-09-12 20:40:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">It\u2019s a contraction of \u201Cblow me down with a feather\u201D, indicating
    that one is so surprised the slightest touch would knock one over.\r\n\r\nYes,
    that's in English. In American it has the rude meaning. As they are the same words,
    they can be easily be confused or fused, which is I suspect what happened with
    Patty's usage. [[http://timworstall.typepad.com/timworstall/2007/09/when-languages-.html|Here's
    more on \"when languages collide.\"]] \r\n\r\nOn the distribution to service bureaux:
    Thanks James and Nick. Now I see on Tiffany's typowiki on [[EULA]] that there
    are others as well--but not most. "
  created: '2007-09-12 20:53:59'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I definitely meant it in the rude American way. But that is a funny link,
    Bill. Just shows ya you can find almost anything on the web.
  created: '2007-09-12 20:54:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>In American it has the rude meaning</em>\r\n\r\nEven when used by ladies?!\r\nIn
    general, I suspect the meaning was and is the same on both sides of the pond.\r\nHowever,
    the further contraction \"blimey\" has never caught on outside of the UK."
  created: '2007-09-12 20:59:19'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I s'pose it doesn't make much sense used by ladies but it was the first insult
    I thought of and then once Uli posted his query it didn't make sense for me to
    change it to something more universal and less offensive. So it stands.
  created: '2007-09-12 21:08:28'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "Getting back to the issue of font licensing and devices. I have a question
    in regards to printers, for instance, I can currently print to 3 different printers
    in the office. All are laser, one does black only, one is a proofing system that
    is capable of doing paper and film (who does that in-house anymore?) and one is
    a new everyday colour printer. \r\n\r\nDo I need an additional license because
    I print to 3 different machines?\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nIn regards to what I'd like
    to see in EULA's is addressing the issue of multiple machines for one user. At
    home I currently only have my G4, but would like to at some point get a laptop
    to use while traveling. I'd like access to some fonts across both machines. Adobe
    currently lets you do this with their software, as far as I know, and I'd like
    to be portable with my work if I want to take something with me while on vacation,
    but otherwise wouldn't be my main work machine.\r\n\r\nI strongly side on the
    ability to archive fonts with jobs. I like packaging jobs up through InDesign
    once their done and have everything together so I'm not digging around my hard
    drive later on looking for a font. I'm not sending native files off to the printer,
    I just want it for organization. \r\n\r\nLike patty, The only thing that goes
    out to printers these days are PDF's. There's too much room for conflict with
    software versions to send native files. I found this out the hard way when a print
    shop was opening files in an older version, ignoring the warning and output a
    proof that came back in a huge mess.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-13 18:08:17'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "All, the typowiki article needs to be updated. There are several errors.
    I have recently done new research specifically about embedding and should add
    it to the wiki.\r\n\r\nOne thing to consider, and consider again, and never stop
    considering, is that every foundry is allowed to decide the value of their fonts
    and every designer is allowed to license or not license. Same goes for designers,
    we have to decide the value of our product and we charge accordingly. For instance,
    some designers would work for $65 and hour and others won't get out of bed for
    less than $250. \r\n\r\nI think it all comes down to one simple fact. Every foundry
    has a different business model. Some of those models have mutated over the years
    because they haven't quite found their own niche, while others found it and have
    stuck with it. \r\n\r\nI'd love for all foundries to allow print & preview embedding
    that would include sending proofs to clients and final files to the printer, but
    the simple fact is that not all do this. However, many of the big boys do this
    now and I'm excited about it. But, being able to send the fonts to the printer
    is more unique and I don't know if the majority will ever allow this. But, I understand
    that in the publishing world sending native files is necessary so the problem
    remains. I've had to settle for simply not using fonts which the printer doesn't
    have or using fonts from foundries which allow it. \r\n\r\nThis thread was begun
    to ask our opinions and suggestions, but I think it has gone a bit beyond that.
    ;^) If we can all just keep in mind that it is ok for us to not agree and also
    ok for us to completely disagree without taking things to a personal and/or insulting
    level it would be super.\r\n\r\nThere is no way that one EULA would ever work
    for every foundry and equally no way there is one price that would work for every
    foundry...nor is there one price and-or EULA that would please all designers and
    industries. \r\n\r\nIf there is one reason why it is good that there are soooooo
    many similar fonts is that you can usually find something similar with a EULA
    you can tolerate* as well. \r\n\r\n*Tolerate being absolutely subjective. "
  created: '2007-09-13 19:59:23'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Jonathan,\r\n\r\nIf you are going to follow EULAs to the letter you will
    have to upgrade some of your licenses. This is actually one thing I really do
    wish foundries might start considering. Output devices really start to get mucky
    because if you want to think about it too much so many things in the office can
    be considered an output device. I wish it could be either user and or workstation
    and then anything in the office that can be output to, from the given user and-or
    workstation is not counted against us.  "
  created: '2007-09-13 20:03:15'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "<em>\"There is no way that one EULA would ever work for every foundry and
    equally no way there is one price that would work for every foundry...nor is there
    one price and-or EULA that would please all designers and industries.\" </em>\r\n\r\nAgreed...but
    still we try. There is a class we call, \"Preferred Designers\" and they are trusted
    to have the whole FB library. We work out solutions to their changing range of
    problems and sometimes the result gets into the EULA, sometimes it gets into a
    contract, and sometimes we just shake hands so we can see what happens \"next\"
    without any \"or else\" clauses. \r\n\r\nAll's else I can say is that I never
    say anything here I would not say to a person's face. That's the line <strong>I</strong>
    draw. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-15 16:39:17'
date: '2007-08-31 10:57:01'
node_type: forum
title: Dalton Maag call for EULA opinions

---
