---
author:
  name: mike gastin
  picture: 110273
body: "Is it just me or is the New Yorker magazine dying for a re-design? I understand
  the relevance of the type from a historical perspective, but man, it seems so wrong
  for a magazine about a happening metropolitan center of culture.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.newyorker.com\r\n\r\nAnyone
  else have an opinion?"
comments:
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Maybe not a redesign, but a makeover would better reflect New York as a happening
    center of culture. From a Melburnian's perspective The New Yorker's type treatment
    and graphic look & feel are almost synonymous with New York city itself---an integral
    part of its identity---and on that basis substantial change or redesign might
    seem too radical.\r\n\r\nIn short, it could do with subtle sprucing up to make
    it fresher.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-09-02 15:56:53'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>...it seems so wrong for a magazine about a happening metropolitan
    center of culture.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut The New Yorker is not a happening magazine.
    It is, in many ways, old, stodgy, and self-important. There\u2019s something about
    that solid old design that lends a great seriousness that few other magazines
    have, hearkening back to the days before celebrity magazine covers, when people
    actually read long magazine articles. Like the yellow edges of National Geographic
    covers, The New Yorker\u2019s design reminds one of the magazine\u2019s great
    heritage, and that they can still be considered a very legitimate source of information.
    I think that, in a time when some magazines redesign themselves almost every issue,
    it\u2019s important to have a rock like The New Yorker around."
  created: '2007-09-02 17:16:17'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: man, i think new yorker is one of the greatest magazines in the world. i live
    in missouri, but still have subscribed for 18 years. it's one of the few that
    haven't dumbed down to the "i want it in 20 seconds or less" school.
  created: '2007-09-02 17:54:12'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: If it ain't broke, don't fix it. The New Yorker ain't broke.
  created: '2007-09-02 17:54:34'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>...in a time when some magazines redesign themselves almost every issue,
    it\u2019s important to have a rock like The New Yorker around.</em>\r\n\r\nYep,
    that's what I meant about the mag being synonymous with New York itself. Still,
    I think the masthead is so well-established and recognized it could withstand
    a very restrained updating---just enough of a tweak to make it more contemporary
    and bring it into the present moment.\r\n\r\nYou'd want to go about it very, very
    carefully. I'm thinking no changes to the type outlines at all, but possibly ink
    color and the manner in which the masthead is applied. Seeing it in black ink
    on their website it looks inextricably rooted in the early 20th century, yet the
    printed edition often uses white ink for the masthead.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-09-02 18:01:28'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "\"...man, i think new yorker is one of the greatest magazines in the world.\"\r\n\r\nSo
    do I, but <em>look at it</em>.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-09-02 18:07:34'
- author:
    name: mike gastin
    picture: 110273
  body: "Wow! I am surprised at the response. I respect the idea to keep it old school.\r\n\r\nI
    still think it could accomplish both - keep its old school cred while sprucing-up
    the look. To me it is on the edge of irrelevant. I am speaking solely of its type
    and design - not its content, which I think many have responded to here. I am
    not criticizing its content. But that type ... it is too dated and looks more
    like a pastiche than a pedigree.\r\n\r\n--\r\nMike"
  created: '2007-09-02 19:30:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">But that type ... it is too dated and looks more like a pastiche than a
    pedigree.\r\n\r\nThere are two types here: the quirky art deco New Yorker display
    face, and Adobe Caslon--perhaps slightly reworked. \r\n\r\nThe New Yorker has
    used both some version of Caslon and that display face since the beginning, and
    I don't imagine they are going to want to change that. The display face is a bit
    awkward, but gives a strong identity, and makes the magazine less ponderous. To
    get the same effect you'd need something good but a bit playful, and I don't know
    if it would end up better. \r\n\r\nAdobe Caslon is a fine typeface, but I don't
    think it fully captures readability and warmth of the metal Caslons. I've set
    out to do a better job of capturing those qualities, and before too long I hope
    the New Yorker has a superior alternative for its body text. Then you all can
    convince them that they need it :)  "
  created: '2007-09-02 20:07:16'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>To me it is on the edge of irrelevant.</cite>\r\n\r\nGiven how strong
    the content in the New Yorker tends to be, I don\u2019t see why the design being
    irrelevant is a problem. I feel like the primary motivation behind endless magazine
    redesigns is the Ray Gun effect: it doesn\u2019t matter how stupid, wrong, or
    just plain bad the writing is, if you make a magazine look cool enough, someone
    will still buy it. \r\n\r\nThen again, sales of The Economist rose dramatically
    following Herr Spiekermann\u2019s redesign, so maybe a redesign would get more
    people to read The New Yorker, and that\u2019s only a bad thing if you\u2019re
    a neoconservative. But the rise in sales of The Economist also occurred after
    9/11, a time when the mainstream media really went down the toilet and people
    were really looking hard for a legitimate newsmagazine to replace Time, Newsweek,
    US News and World Report, and all the other magazines that went down the toilet
    in the last half-decade.\r\n\r\nBut I digress."
  created: '2007-09-02 20:10:00'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I did a lot of OpenType work on the New Yorker fonts, and while they are
    Caslon, they are not Adobe Caslon. They have been in use long before Adobe released
    their Caslon.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2007-09-02 20:15:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thanks, James. I knew they weren''t exact, but I assumed, wrongly, they were
    a modification of Adobe Caslon. I''d like to think that the version I''m working
    on has some advantages, but of course that is for other people to judge. '
  created: '2007-09-02 20:21:18'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "The softness of the digital outlines makes me think that the New Yorker Calson,
    was digitized from some older sources, perhaps some metal version that they used
    in an earlier time. It was probably done in the early 90s, when Conde Nast was
    converting all their production from traditional sources to Macintosh.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2007-09-02 20:33:09'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "It sounds like only the typography of the magazine is being questioned, but
    I'd like to point out that there have been subtle tweaks to the magazine's layout
    over the last few years. Plus, <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fran%C3%A7oise_Mouly\">Fran\xE7oise
    Mouly</a> has brought in some great illustrators and comics masters to do covers.
    And <a href=\"http://www.newyorker.com/\">the magazine's website</a> has just
    undergone a complete redesign. And yet The New Yorker's essential identity is
    still palpable. I think that is a great accomplishment."
  created: '2007-09-02 20:39:04'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "What strikes me as a bit out of date about the New Yorker is their persistent
    use of umlauts in words like co\xF6perate and re\xEBnact. And their placement
    of titles of all kinds within quotation marks (instead of italics). "
  created: '2007-09-02 22:06:37'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Excuse me, <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diaeresis_%28diacritic%29">diaeresis</a>.
  created: '2007-09-02 22:17:08'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: the umlauts are actually a fairly recent change, aren't they?  i think they
    came in about 6 years ago.
  created: '2007-09-02 22:30:17'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: They do use dieresis in the proper way. Not out of date, but cutting edge.
  created: '2007-09-02 22:32:11'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: they've never struck me as out of date, either.
  created: '2007-09-02 22:34:38'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Hmm, seems archaic to me. But that's to-day; to-morrow I may feel differently...
  created: '2007-09-02 23:16:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/English_orthography#Diacritics|Wikipedia on
    use of diacritics in English spelling]]. They say that the New Yorker is a hold
    out on \"co\xF6perate\". "
  created: '2007-09-02 23:37:32'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: I think American English has to embrace the few diacritcals it has.
  created: '2007-09-03 02:11:47'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "And by the way, if you haven't, check out this AIGA <em>Voice</em> article:\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.aiga.org/content.cfm/redesigning-the-new-yorker-part-one\">Redesigning
    <em>The New Yorker</em> to a High Degree of Fussiness, Pt. 1</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.aiga.org/content.cfm/redesigning-the-new-yorker-part-two\">Redesigning
    <em>The New Yorker</em>, Pt. 2: A Visual Critique</a>\r\n\r\n[EDIT] And oops...
    here's the Michael Bierut article mentioned in the AIGA piece:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.designobserver.com/archives/009792.html\">In
    Praise of Slow Design</a>. It, too, talks about <em>The New Yorker</em>'s design."
  created: '2007-09-03 02:16:48'
- author:
    name: Robert Trogman
    picture: 111573
  body: I think we should reform magazines that reverse out small type over photos
    etc.
  created: '2007-09-03 02:54:59'
- author:
    name: mike gastin
    picture: 110273
  body: "I started this tread asking if it was just me. Now I see that the AIGA published
    an article that agrees with me. I think the issue for me is the masthead was originally
    designed to be modern. It is now so dated that it is funny. To those who have
    not been reading it for the last eighty years it just looks like some sort of
    retro-art deco hack.\r\n\r\nBut, that is just me. Seems I am mostly alone here
    in the forums on that.\r\n\r\n--\r\nMike"
  created: '2007-09-03 03:14:58'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Well, there are plenty of logos that have barely changed over the years...
    The one for <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coca-Cola">Coca-Cola</a> comes
    to mind. Sure, it's been tweaked and had things added to it, but the script logo
    is basically the same as it was when first created by Frank Mason Robinson in
    1885 (!)... As someone already said above, if it ain't broke...  :-)
  created: '2007-09-03 04:37:34'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Am I the only one who has noticed that for smaller sizes (mostly the listings
    at the front, but also blockquotes in the main section), they use Sabon? I think
    it works; it's clearly subtle enough not to call attention to itself, but they
    also get much of the benefit of true optical scaling, and arguably Sabon is more
    legible at small sizes.\r\n\r\nStill, if it were me I would have done true optical
    sizes of the metal Caslon original. James, do you have any insight into why this
    wasn't done?\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-03 04:50:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Raph, I don't think the Sabon works that well, though it works better than
    Adobe Caslon at that size would. (I don't have their proprietary Caslon to test
    of course.) My own small text size--based on Caslon's own Long Primer--works better
    to my eyes in setting the listings. \r\n\r\nThe basic problem is that the ascenders
    and caps of Sabon are too tall to set solid well at 8 pt; when it is set solid
    at 8 pt, as the listings seem to be, the inter-line space gets messy. This is
    particularly because the listings are full of proper names--artists, venues, etc.--so
    there are many more caps than in ordinary text. \r\n\r\nAs to why it was done,
    I don't have old pre-photo type copies, but I suspect (from memory) that they
    were done in Linotype Caslon Old Face. This had optical sizes--by point size--but
    I don't think the massive job of converting this family to photo type was ever
    undertaken. (The other likely suspect is Lanston Monotype's Caslon.) I don't know
    the photo era Caslons, but just guessing I would think that the New Yorker went
    through those years with one size of Caslon, and then digitized it. Mine will
    be the first, I think, to do optical sizes in a long while, though it will take
    a while to finish them if I keep posting to Typophile!  "
  created: '2007-09-03 05:10:29'
- author:
    name: mike gastin
    picture: 110273
  body: "Ricardo,\r\n\r\nGood point about Coke. I guess for me the Coke script transcends
    a time period, whereas the art deco font used in the New Yorker's logo/masthead
    screams the early 1900's.\r\n\r\nDoes the Coke script look dated to you?\r\n\r\n--\r\nMike"
  created: '2007-09-03 12:50:45'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: The Coca-Cola script has been subtly changed over the years, unlike the New
    Yorker logo.
  created: '2007-09-03 13:21:12'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: Love the New Yorker, along with the Economist, the only American magazine
    I really do read. I think the "outdated-ness" of the magazine is fundamentally
    why it is great. It is timeless and has not been infested by pop culture, it is
    always relevant. As said above, if it ain't broken don't fix it, my opinion.
  created: '2007-09-03 14:52:40'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Does the Coke script look dated to you?</em>\r\n\r\nGood question, Mike!
    No, it does not look dated to me.\r\n\r\n<em>The Coca-Cola script has been subtly
    changed over the years, unlike the New Yorker logo.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, I would
    have agreed 100% with that before reading the AIGA <em>Voice</em> article. It
    compares a couple of images of the logo -- 1925 vs. 2007 -- in which there are
    at least two visible differences: the typeface (slightly different in its digital
    version) and the kerning. [KT Meaney's words: <em>\"Match Irvin\u2019s masthead
    to the current one. The original has a soft, hand-drawn feel. The latest (first
    appearing in the 1980s) has a cold, ultra-crisp look. Aside from better letter
    spacing between the \u201CT\u201D and \u201CH\u201D (in \u201CThe\u201D) and \u201CY\u201D
    and \u201CO\u201D (in \u201CYorker\u201D), the type is prickly and feels unnecessarily
    sharp.\"</em>]\r\n\r\nBut I see what you are both getting at. The Coca-Cola comparison
    doesn't really hold water. :-) Poor choice on my part!"
  created: '2007-09-03 15:30:34'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "I think magazine design in general is very sensitive to trends that appear
    and disappear in very short periods of time (Fontblog brought the latest of these
    to my attention http://www.creativereview.co.uk/crblog/the-new-ugly/). This is
    why magazines like the aforementioned Ray Gun become icons of an era, but look
    awfully dated for it... I guess that the style of The New Yorker works exactly
    because it has hardly changed over the decades. It's style may have been called
    Art Deco once, but now it has just become synonimous with The New Yorker > It
    has become 'The New Yorker' style! I personally think it would be an unwise choice
    to make any radical changes to the design. This one calls for evolution rather
    than evolution, and besides that: I kinda like it for its awkwardness, its typeface
    and its illustrations... :>) \r\n\r\ncheerio Queneau"
  created: '2007-09-03 15:48:13'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "Showing my age, I have read the New Yorker for over half of its life span.
    It has significant identifying characteristics. Important among them is that type
    predominates in its design. In my opinion, it does so in the manner of the modernist
    aesthetic of transparency -- \"The Crystal Goblet.\" I don't agree with the forementioned
    essay, but I do respect its consistent implementation over time. So, for me, The
    New Yorker dosen't look dated. It looks like the New Yorker.\r\n\r\nThere have
    been many changes to the magazine over time. The introduction of a table of contents
    shocked me when it appeared during my high-school years. I was gratified to later
    learn that the TOC was added for the convenience of the magazines researchers,
    not its readers. In the 90's, change happened much more quickly. The arrival of
    Tina Brown brought introduction of photographs and of color, which, by the way,
    antedated the New York Times. Much more offensive, but essential to the survival
    of the magazine, was the first appearance of a special advertising section on
    the Bahamas circa 1992. I was annoyed enough to go the sophmoric expedient of
    removing the staples, mailing the offending section back to 45th street, and inclosing
    a note that said, \"There seems to be some mistake. I found these pages in our
    magazine and thought you might want to know.\"\r\n\r\nCompared to Coca-Cola, The
    New Yorker has avoided commodification. However, its advertising department recently
    has begun trading on its identity as an institution. The most offensive aspect
    of the current magazine is its acceptance of advertisements that masquarade as
    New Yorker style drawings. Given that change I suspect that any redesign modifying
    the magazine's singular image would be antithetical to owners vision of the magazine's
    identity as saleable property.\r\n\r\nHoly Moholy Nagy, I've just talked myself
    into a redesign."
  created: '2007-09-03 16:20:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Holy Moholy Nagy</cite>\r\n\r\nI am SO going to use that in class..."
  created: '2007-09-03 16:40:43'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>I was annoyed enough to go the sophmoric expedient of removing the staples,
    mailing the offending section back to 45th street, and inclosing a note that said,
    \u201CThere seems to be some mistake. I found these pages in our magazine and
    thought you might want to know.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nThat is hilarious, Charles!\r\n\r\n<em>The
    most offensive aspect of the current magazine is its acceptance of advertisements
    that masquarade as New Yorker style drawings.</em>\r\n\r\nAh, you must mean the
    cartoons. There was also the issue that had Target ads done by illustrators whose
    work is often identified with <em>The New Yorker</em>... I wasn't too happy about
    that one, either. (Not that anybody at TNY is going to lose any sleep over my
    opinion!) There was quite a discussion about it on Design Observer: <a href=\"http://www.designobserver.com/archives/005601.html\">Every
    New Yorker is a Target</a>."
  created: '2007-09-03 19:15:02'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Charles,\r\n\r\nDid <em>The New Yorker</em> magazine write you back? I could
    imagine the creative juices in editorial have fun with that one. Dorothy Parker
    and the round table could have had a ball with it at the Algonquin...\r\n\r\n**********\r\n\r\nMHO
    - <em>The New Yorker</em> magazine has changed in many ways, but it is nice enough
    to have an overall look remain that is very famliar to us. The person who reads
    the magazine knows exactly what they've picked up when they pick it up. It is
    what it is.\r\n\r\nSometimes, I really do get tired of up-and-coming designers
    that want to change the world. I'd like to express that not all the world needs
    changing. Sometimes we need our comfy, familiar pieces to get through the day...."
  created: '2007-09-04 14:59:10'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "Talking from a, outside the US, point of view I agree with Mike. I think
    it could do with a makeover. There are so many typefaces that are linked to New
    York's history without becoming clich\xE9. TFJ has redrawn some typefaces that
    would, for me, work just as well from the historic perspective but also meet younger
    readers. (Ps: Again just talking from an outsiders point of view and only of the
    masthead) "
  created: '2007-09-04 16:03:20'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "<em>Did The New Yorker magazine write you back?</em>\r\nNo, they did not.
    But back to the subject at hand. By way of comparison, the attached image shows
    three well known NYC mastheads. Which looks most dated?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/NYmasts_6669.jpg]"
  created: '2007-09-04 17:27:54'
- author:
    name: ultrasparky
    picture: 109750
  body: Which one DOESN'T look dated would be a better question. But I think that's
    part of the charm of the New Yorker. I quite like the contrast of the (now) slightly
    old-fashioned aesthetic amidst the screaming visual noise of the newsstand. I've
    always felt it's a pretty bold move for them to resist fashionable change and
    let its own history define its brand.
  created: '2007-09-04 18:25:01'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: That is not the most recent version of the New York magazine logo.
  created: '2007-09-04 18:35:09'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "<em>That is not the most recent version of the New York magazine logo</em>\r\nTrue.
    I didn't mean to stack the deck but my browser seems to have fallen through a
    time warp this morning.\r\n\r\nHere's a corrected set.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/NYmasts2_4856.jpg]"
  created: '2007-09-04 18:46:59'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: My five cents worth (hey, there has been inflation ... I just can't do it
    for two cents anymore) is that a redesign for the New Yorker could only be considered
    a success if they could do it without telling anyone about it. At the end, nobody
    notices (well, we would notice, but not people in the real world) but the mag
    is subtly easier to read and handle.
  created: '2007-09-04 20:36:29'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I think the New Yorker is fine, it took me awhile to get used to their headline
    font used for smaller heads but it's ok. That isn't a magazine that sells itself
    (or should) by cashing in on the latest design trends.\r\n\r\nThe magazine I'd
    like to see get a make-over is Harper's. I can't stand the huge bold heads, think
    the gutters btw the text columns is unnecessarily wide, really wish they'd ditch
    Goudy (talk about dated!)."
  created: '2007-09-05 02:38:37'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: i'm with you on harper's. the mast especially.
  created: '2007-09-05 04:26:59'
date: '2007-09-02 14:42:49'
node_type: forum
title: New Yorker Magazine

---
