---
author:
  name: AzizMostafa
  picture: 111536
body: "Dear Typophiles,\r\nOut of  Adobe Arabic OTF , I have made 2 complementary
  TTfonts with:\r\n\r\n1. Longer Fatha on wide letters.\r\n2. Longer Madda on Alif
  after wide letters.\r\n3. Higher Madda  on Alif after tall letters.\r\n4. Longer
  + higher Madda on Alif after Wide+Tall letters.\r\n5. Open loop sukun in place of
  the closed loop.\r\n6. 69 Tansween instead of z9.\r\n7. Standing Kasra similar to
  the Standing Fatha.\r\n8. Isolated Kasra + (Tanween Kasr) from Shadda.\r\n9. Closer
  Kasra + (Tanween Kasr) envelopable by final letters.\r\nT. Marks on Ta positioned
  slightly above where the dot of its sister Za appears.\r\n\r\nLike my uncompromisng
  Arabic font, Adobe Arabic has been re-made:\r\n1. to work on both Windows 3.11 and
  Xp.\r\n2. with no Quarrelsome mark like the fatha in \u0637\u064E\u0622\u0626\u0631+|\u062A\u0631\u064E\u0643\r\nA
  Sample will be sent shortly when the renovation to my house is over.\r\nGreetings
  from a hotel room with Flowers"
comments:
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Sorry to keep friends waiting for so long.\r\nHouse Renovation took 2 months
    longer than estimated.\r\nHere are 2 images showing Adobe Arabic AsIs + as by
    Aziz with Flowers.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TimTim_6247.JPG]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TimAziz_6347.JPG]"
  created: '2007-11-06 06:49:20'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: Congratulations = Mabrouk.
  created: '2007-11-06 08:18:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "An interesting and in many respects attractive experiment, Aziz. It is interesting
    to see the difference in overall texture between the two versions, and how the
    variation in mark size and the tighter spacing makes your version resemble the
    texture of a traditional naskh page even though the letterforms are the same.
    The loss of the fa-yeh and lam-yeh ligature forms is unfortunate, though.\r\n\r\nAdobe
    Arabic was designed primarily for use in modern business documents, with little
    expectation that it would be used for fully vocalised text. This is actually the
    only example of vocalised text in Adobe Arabic that I have seen outside of the
    tests that we made when we were developing the font."
  created: '2007-11-07 23:23:30'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "1. Welcome to our new Japanese Typophile with Flowers\r\n\r\n> The loss of
    the fa-yeh and lam-yeh ligature forms is unfortunate, though.\r\nAbsolutely true.
    I do have both of them included but It was the Indian Publisher choice not to
    use ligatures at all. He was attracted by the fatness and easiness of Adobe Arabic.
    After all, juggling 6 fonts is more mind-boggling than Toggling just 2 that give
    more rooms than needed?!\r\nThanks with Flowers\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-08 20:04:20'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Thank you Aziz for the flowers!Hello John. I am not Japanese, I live in Tokyo
    but I am a Palestinian born in Jerusalem.  The font I am working on is the exact
    opposite of your beautiful naskh font - it is an uncompromising minimal sans-serif
    inspired by Eric Gill's San Serif and his writings.   Did you know that Eric Gill
    loved Jerusalem and worked there carving stone reliefs and lettering for the Rockefeller
    Museum? He called the Dome of the Rock \"the holiest holiest holiest\" place.\r\nhttp://www.imj.org.il/rockefeller/eng/Gill.html"
  created: '2007-11-09 04:06:54'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> I am not Japanese\r\n1 That's what your name does suggest. I thought you
    are One+ by now!\r\nFlowers wherever you come and go! \r\nI have been to Japan
    for the last 3 months of 1983. I did enjoy my time there and then. My Goldfish
    taught me Japanese, but it is the last place on earth I choose to live whenever
    I remember my days battling with the train up+down Tokyo+Yokohama.\r\nLast time
    I could smell and touch Japanese flowers but my spouse goes mad whenever she sees
    me scanning my old pictures.\r\n\r\n2. See me on the Other Channel:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/38807"
  created: '2007-11-09 18:14:59'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: Thank you for the flowers! You are right my name has a Japanese equivalent!
  created: '2007-11-12 08:01:40'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Hello Vladimir Tamari\r\n\r\n>>The font I am working on is the exact opposite
    of your beautiful Naskh font - it is >>an uncompromising minimal sans-serif inspired
    by Eric Gill\u2019s San Serif and his >>writings.\r\n\r\nI liked your use of the
    term \"uncompromising\" which is now a Trademark by our very talented colleague
    Aziz.\r\n\r\nA year ago, I created two Arabic fonts: Arabetics Serif and Arabetics
    San-Serif to illustrate few concepts about simplified Arabic in an article I wrote
    for \"Visible Language\". They are on our site:  http://arabetics.com\r\n\r\n-Saad\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n
    \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-18 15:50:33'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Hello Saad and Aziz, yes the word uncompromising was used appropriately both
    by Azis and myself but the result is stylistically as different as goldfish are
    from flowers (!)- I am curious about the font Aziz developed or adapted - is it
    an Adobe font which he designed? \r\n\r\nI looked at Saad's arabetics website
    and it had a very nice way to display the various fonts and sizes. As an Arab
    my first reaction was to notice the gaps between the glyphs, then I looked at
    the glyphs themselves which had interesting graphic styles- Arabic is amazingly
    pliable!  As to the unconnected letters...I guess I am one of those  people who
    feel that the tradition of writing connected words is too important to get rid
    of, and that connected words create a 'word shape' that aids legibility. Not all
    of Saad's fonts have noticiable gaps, though.\r\n\r\n- The Mehdi  is the one I
    liked best, especially the elegant italic. What are the different numbers 60 180
    in the font names?\r\n- The Mitlaq has a delightful Ism-Al-Jalalah and qaf and
    many other nice fanciful shapes.\r\n- The Amudi is the one I liked least- it has
    so many similar verticals (and gaps) that the eye is overwhelmed.\r\n\r\nI had
    similar reactions when I attended a lecture and exhibition by the late Nasri Khattar
    in Beirut...that must have been around 1960. His glyphs were nicely designed,
    but he presented a concept quite similar to the Mutamathil: http://www.unifiedarabicalphabet.com/
    Interestingly the logo of his site is in connected words.\r\nGood luck to you
    both\r\nVladimir\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-19 13:19:17'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Dear Vladimir\r\n\r\nIf this was you picture on the corner then you look
    too young to attend a 1960 events :)\r\n\r\n>>I guess I am one of those people
    who feel that the tradition of writing connected >>words is too important to get
    rid of, and that connected words create a \u2019word shape\u2019 >>that aids legibility\r\n\r\nIndeed.
    \ I would never support \"getting rid of\" connected Arabic form nor can anyone
    actually do it. My main goal is to emphasize Arabic script flexibility and power
    and to present more options to serve *real* educational and economical needs.
    In a way, this would be similar to how Arabic Poetry was successfully enriched
    last century by include \"Amudi poems\" side by side \"Free Poems\". Thinking
    in term of \"replace\" or \"reform\" which was the case for most previous non
    traditional works, unfortunately, is insulting and would never serve the Arabic
    script.  \r\n\r\nI must admit that for me personally, the added freedom of not
    having connectivity as an absolute \"minimum design requirement\" is a crucial
    factor for creative design. \r\n\r\n>>What are the different numbers 60 180 in
    the font names?\r\n\r\nThis is related to Tatweel (or Kasheedah) lengths.\r\n\r\n-Saad\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-20 16:33:47'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: Saad the 20x20 or so colorful pixels in my logo are cropped to hide a lot
    of gray ones! Thanks for the explanation about the disconnected fonts- you have
    the right attitude.  It is interesting that you mention the writing of free Arabic
    verse- some of those poets campaigned for the use of "Arabic Numerals" 123456780
    as written  in the West thinking that this was a return to their roots. Unfortunately
    the practice has now spread in the Arab world - I say unfortunately because the
    Indic-Arabic numerals the Arabs used till recently are in the same style of the
    rest of the font, unlike the Roman-looking 1234... which look so incongruous on
    the page.
  created: '2007-11-21 08:21:12'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Interesting indeed.. I never knew that free Arabic verse poets had anything
    to do with replacing \"Arabic Numerals\" by Indic-Arabic. I thought it was a trend
    staring in Morocco and Algeria then adapted by the Arab East.\r\n\r\nI agree with
    you, \"Arabic Numerals\" look incongruous when used \"as is\" with Arabic fonts.
    My approach to this issue is that since using \"Arabic Numerals\" is becoming
    a strong reality on the ground, designers of Arabic fonts must create harmonious
    designs of these numerals and do not depend on Latin default. In my fonts I try
    to bring the \"Arabic numerals\" back to their original Indic-Arabic forms. For
    example, I flip Indic-Arabic 2 and 3 90 degrees counterclockwise and use diamond
    shape 0. Similarly my Arabic numeral 9 is made identical to Indic-Arabic.\r\n\r\n-Saad\r\n\r\n
    \ "
  created: '2007-11-21 19:52:33'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Sorry, I meant to say:\r\n\r\nI never knew that free Arabic verse poets had
    anything to do with replacing Indic-Arabic by \"Arabic Numerals\u201D\r\n\r\n-Saad"
  created: '2007-11-21 19:54:12'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "... yes the word uncompromising was used appropriately both by Azis and myself
    but the result is stylistically as different as goldfish are from flowers (!)-
    I am curious about the font Aziz developed or adapted - is it an Adobe font which
    he designed? \r\n\r\n1 Adobe Arabic has been designed neither by Aziz nor by Azis.
    It has been designed by Tim Holloway. More here:\r\nhttp://www.tdc.org/news/2006Results/AdobeArabic.html\r\n2.
    TimTim.jpg is AsIs and TimAziz.jpg is As by Aziz.\r\n3. Have you ever befriended
    a Goldfish?\r\n4. Happy Birthday with Flowers\r\nhttp://www.ne.jp/asahi/tamari/vladimir\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-21 21:23:44'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Saad- I first encountered the use of Western Arabic numerals in poetry magazines
    edited in Beirut by pioneering poets of free verse either Mawaqef edited by Adonis
    or Shi3r by Yousef al Khal, or both,  I am not now sure. I think the idea of using
    them was actively promoted there. When did they start being used in the Maghreb?
    \ Good for you for redesigning the Western-Arabic in the same style of the font
    it is part of - that will solve the aesthetic problem. Is there a way to give
    the user a choice of which set of numerals to use?  I suppose the trend is irreversible
    because of the convenience of having bank records etc. displayed in a uniform
    way all over the world.\r\nCheers"
  created: '2007-11-22 01:55:37'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Thank you Aziz for your flowery greetings and the information about the Adobe
    fonts. I will be happy to answer your question about goldfish in an email since
    the subject is distinctly untypographic :)  But wait...there iS a goldfish-font
    connection http://www.dafont.com/volter-goldfish.font  !!\r\nCheers"
  created: '2007-11-22 02:02:08'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Hello Vladimir\r\n\r\nHappy 65th to you. It is a well deserved celebration
    for all your incredible talents in Art and science. And, yes, I see how effective
    cropping is on unwanted elements.  \r\n\r\n>>When did they start being used in
    the Maghreb?\r\n\r\nNot sure.  But probably sixties or before. \r\n\r\n\r\n>>Good
    for you for redesigning the Western-Arabic in the same style of the font it is
    part of - that will solve the aesthetic problem. \r\n\r\nForgot to add that I
    also design my Indic-Arabic numerals in special way. Notice, 0 and  5.\r\n\r\n>>Is
    there a way to give the user a choice of which set of numerals to use?\r\n\r\nIn
    all Microsoft Office applications you can choose and set default.  In my Java
    utility on my site, I did not find way to choose.  BTW, I noticed my Java is having
    technical problem issues couple days ago.  May be due to latest update, this means
    I have a project now for the Thanksgiving, this long weekend in US.\r\n\r\n-Saad
    \ "
  created: '2007-11-22 14:39:48'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Yhank you Saad for your kind words- but you know what they say about Jack
    of all trades. Happy Thanksgiving - I checked your website http://arabetics.com
    the Java seems to work fine, and saw how you designed the Arabic-Indic numerals
    to suit the Arabic. I suggest the original sifr (zero) be placed higher up the
    glyph so that it will look even less than a full-stop. Hey Aziz started this thread
    to tell about his font. I am new to chat rooms - shouldn't we stick to that subject
    so that others will join his discussion? But speaking of numerals when I installed
    my font the numerals on Word suddenly started displaying in Western Arabic from
    another font..wonder why?  \r\n\r\nSince this is all about Arabic fonts may I
    suggest readers look at the excellent work of Pascal Zoghbi http://www.29letters.com/new/index.php"
  created: '2007-11-23 14:01:36'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Vladimir,  Yes the applets works fine in IE but not in newest Firefox version.
    As for chat, it is not an usual that discussions in forums branches on and on.\r\n\r\nYou
    can set what numerals to see in MS Office. \r\n\r\n>>Since this is all about Arabic
    fonts may I suggest readers look at the excellent work of Pascal Zoghbi http://www.29letters.com/new/index.php\r\n\r\nAlso,
    pascal worked hard to make his site a very nice one.\r\n\r\n-Saad\r\n    "
  created: '2007-11-23 21:35:20'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: 'Saad, Firefox 3 has some unwanted ''improvements'' like that security pop-out
    when you select an address in the bar, but it is still in beta.  Yes I am now
    seeing how chats do branch out that is good, but I think I am too old for these
    fast-paced exchanges of info-bites in a free-for-all setting.  I looked at your
    arabetics.com and saw the NAIM method- I will have to study it closer. Your technical
    innovations are welcome in this field. I wonder if a system like that can be of
    use in a situation like this:  When I use Illustrator and input Arabic text it
    comes out unconnected only letters in their final form. Is getting the ME version
    the only way to use Arabic in Adobe products? Could NAIM help, and if so why is
    it only restricted to OT ? Thanks.'
  created: '2007-11-25 02:17:25'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: ">>When I use Illustrator and input Arabic text it comes out unconnected only
    letters in their final form. Is getting the ME version the only way to use Arabic
    in Adobe products? \r\n\r\nUnfortunately, Abobe products do not use the default
    operating system Arabic (or complex script) engine on Mac or Windows. You will
    need to use their engine so you will need to get ME (i.e. pay additional money
    to Adobe). But at least Adobe ME engine uses OT.  That way any OT Arabic font
    can be used with ME on MAC too; although MAC supports OT but their support is
    partial not including complex scripts (ie. Arabic).  For Arabic MAC requires AAT.
    \ \r\n\r\n>>Could NAIM help, and if so why is it only restricted to OT?\r\n\r\nNAIM
    is a text input method in which you have no dynamic glyph substitutions before
    leaving a word (i.e hitting space) The purpose of NAIM is mainly educational but
    it is also useful to those who are tired and annoyed by the \"hyper\" (dancing)
    behavior of the current \"shaping\" approach.  I implemented NAIM for OT but it
    is not restricted to it. \r\n\r\nNAIM is an optional, simpler, and more natural
    character input method to implement within an Arabic engine. It works with all
    Arabic fonts, as you can see with the Java applet on the arabetics.com site. NAIM
    does not replace the need for a default Arabic engine in the first place. But
    of course, if we would use it in conjunction with one glyph per letter and uniformed
    diacritic positioning font styles, like fonts in my Mutamathil style, we would
    need engines to take care of RtL ordering only.\r\n\r\n-Saad"
  created: '2007-11-25 16:35:46'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Thanks Saad I will respond soon inshallah.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-30 01:00:04'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> You will need to use their engine so you will need to get ME \r\n> (i.e.
    pay additional money to Adobe). But at least Adobe ME engine uses OT. \r\n\r\nWell,
    this is not exactly correct. The Middle East versions of Adobe's products are
    developed by Winsoft, which is an independent company. So the additional money
    goes to them, for their hard work to adapt Adobe products to the Middle East requirements.
    \r\n\r\n> although MAC supports OT but their support is partial not \r\n> including
    complex scripts (ie. Arabic). For Arabic MAC requires AAT.\r\n\r\nThat, again,
    is not exactly correct. This was true for Mac OS X 10.4 Tiger and earlier versions,
    but in Mac OS X 10.5 Leopard, applications that use the CoreText font infrastructure
    such as TextEdit do support Arabic with OpenType fonts (though I have not tested
    vocalized text). There is some information about this at http://lists.apple.com/archives/carbon-dev/2007/Nov/msg00005.html
    \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-01 04:30:33'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: ">Unfortunately, Abobe products do not use the default operating system Arabic
    (or complex script) engine\r\n\r\nHow about Fontlab - do all its features work
    for Arabic, for example Preview?\r\n\r\n>NAIM is a text input method in which
    you have no dynamic glyph substitutions before leaving a word (i.e hitting space)\r\n\r\nSaad,
    as I understand it your system assumes the letter is medial until a space bar
    shows the letter is at at the end of the word, when the final form is substituted.
    In the usual method the final form is assumed and displayed first.  Yes I prefer
    the NAIM system - it is more logical and as you say educational. The computerization
    of Arabic fonts seems to leave room for improvement in several basic ways. In
    his interesting website on Arabic fonts and calligraphy http://hibastudio.com
    Hasan Abu Afash interviewed you, and recently Jim Hudson. Jim said the Arabic
    was poorly categorized in Unicode from the very start- another example where improvements
    are possible. \r\n"
  created: '2007-12-04 11:04:14'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Saad wrote:\r\n\r\n> You will need to use their engine so you will need to
    get ME\r\n> (i.e. pay additional money to Adobe). But at least Adobe ME engine
    uses OT.\r\n\r\nAram wrote:\r\n\r\n>>Well, this is not exactly correct. The Middle
    East versions of Adobe\u2019s products are developed by Winsoft, which is an independent
    company. So the additional money goes to them, for their hard work to adapt Adobe
    products to the Middle East requirements.\r\n\r\nHello Adam.  Yes, Winsoft deserves
    a lot for their hard work.  Recently I got great help from Pascal regarding OT
    and Winsoft Arabic engine.  But my comment was about Adobe.  Adobe should not
    sell an InDesign product without minimum Arabic support.  The days of paying for
    additional Arabic products are gone. Besides, we have 50 millions Arabic script
    users outside the Arab world.  Adobe should have minimum (like shaping) Arabic
    support in their Latin products via OS. Do you think Adobe gets *nothing* from
    the sell of Winsoft's \"Adobe ME\" products?  Then think again.\r\n\r\nBTW: Winsoft
    Arabic engine implements Arabic different than MS Uniscribe. They require the
    four glyph model as an absolute minimum. This impacts font makers.\r\n\r\nSaad
    wrote:\r\n\r\n> although MAC supports OT but their support is partial not\r\n>
    including complex scripts (ie. Arabic). For Arabic MAC requires AAT.\r\n\r\nAdam
    wrote:\r\n\r\n>>That, again, is not exactly correct.\r\n\r\nWell It is correct
    so far.  Java on Mac, which depends on MAC OS for Arabic, still does not work.
    \r\n\r\nVladimir wrote:\r\n\r\n>>Saad, as I understand it your system assumes
    the letter is medial until a space bar shows the letter is at at the end of the
    word, when the final form is substituted.\r\n\r\nYes. Initial form would display
    first, followed by middle forms (or isolated if needed) until a final (or isolated
    if needed) is displayed *after* space entered. \r\n\r\n>>and recently Jim Hudson\r\n\r\nIt
    is John Hudson.\r\n\r\n-Saad\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-04 18:01:58'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: d
  created: '2007-12-04 18:05:19'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: ">>and recently Jim Hudson  >>It is John Hudson.\r\nApologies...jim is an
    Arabic letter :) Here is John's wide-ranging interview with Hasan Abu Afash on
    Arabic typography:  http://hibastudio.com/links/Interviews_Eng/IN_John.html\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-05 02:37:38'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "FontLab Studio does not offer very good support for complex scripts. There
    is basic support -- you can preview the font and edit its metrics in right-to-left,
    you can preview the basic OpenType Layout features (init, medi, fina, isol). But
    no script-specific shaping is supported, mark attachment is also not supported.
    \r\n\r\nI agree with Saad that Adobe should be adding support for complex scripts
    to their applications, and I wish it happened faster. On the other hand, I can
    understand that some companies lack the expertise in certain fields so they initially
    rely on external providers. My guess is that Adobe will be adding more support
    for complex scripts themselves in the near future. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-05 19:26:56'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "See http://typophile.com/node/48495\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-15 19:51:10'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "The Adobe Arabic looks nice, who designed it?\r\nAziz, did you design some
    typefaces of your own? If so, where they could be seen?\r\n\r\nAll the marks of
    those classic Arabic types, beautiful as they look, \"scare\" me a lot, anyway.
    I guess it's really difficult to get into a culture and writing system, unless
    you have the practical opportunity to do so\u2026"
  created: '2009-01-17 20:54:22'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "@ The Adobe Arabic looks nice, who designed it?\r\n\r\n1. Originally designed
    by a Canadian named Tim Holloway.\r\n2. Improved by an Iraqi named AzizMostafa
    to go with Aldus Pageaker5.5.\r\n3. Redesigned by MaryamSoft.com for private use
    only.\r\n\r\n@ Aziz, did you design some typefaces of your own?\r\n\r\nYes. See
    http://typophile.com/node/19348\r\n\r\n\r\n@ If so, where they could be seen?\r\n\r\nComing
    soon with MirEmad of MaryamSoft.com\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/48495"
  created: '2009-01-19 06:44:59'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite> 2. Improved by an Iraqi named AzizMostafa to go with Aldus Pageaker5.5.
    </cite>\r\n\r\nAh, great old PageMaker, what a nostalgia (I started with version
    2.5 in 1988\u2026)\r\nInDesign CS3 got excessively cluttered, and the palettes
    and radio buttons are too small.\r\nSo Tim did a good work, if you liked it it
    must have been a good \"filologic\" work\u2026 :=)\r\n\r\nAre you part of MaryamSoft
    or is it a company on its own?\r\n\r\nOn the thread I see Mrallah, but you talk
    primarily about the inherent features that make a quality calligraphic face with
    accents et al. (\"to create sophisticated Arabic literary and academic books\".
    to use the words of WinSoft) Is Mrallah your own design?\r\n\r\nSorry not to get
    deeper into questions, but my interest now has to remain a \"hobby\", otherwise
    I'll never complete my own old works\u2026 :=("
  created: '2009-01-19 13:45:50'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> Is Mrallah your own design?\r\n> Are you part of MaryamSoft or is it a
    company on its own?\r\n\r\nMrallah (Arabic Naskh) belongs to nobody...\r\nIt was
    developed hundreds years ago.\r\n4 years ago, I finished digitizing it into 5+1
    TTFs to go with PageMaker5.5.\r\nAnd recently developing it with the help of MaryamSoft.com.\r\n\r\nExcuse
    me for not providing more details.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-19 14:23:57'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite> Mrallah (Arabic Naskh) belongs to nobody... </cite>\r\n\r\nI think
    I understand the broader sense of your statement, then I reformulate the question
    in: how did you digitized it?\r\nIt does not seem taken directly from calligraphic
    or printed sources, but actually drawn with precision.\r\nDon't worry about other
    details, I'm just excessively curious, like cats\u2026\r\n\r\nFlowers\u2026 :=)"
  created: '2009-01-21 18:35:47'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> then I reformulate the question in: how did you digitized it?\r\n\r\nCan
    you reformulate your question once again?!"
  created: '2009-01-24 05:58:05'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Claudio Piccinini, before reformulating your question, consult:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/20638?page=5#comment-205067\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/40979\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-24 08:09:40'
- author:
    name: Aniza
  body: "Salam Aziz,\r\n\r\nWe met at Pesta Buku KL 2009.  Can you help me on how
    to use the software please?  I do not know what button to hit to make the interface
    appear.  Kindly help. "
  created: '2009-05-20 05:38:00'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Thanks Aniza for Choosing Jawi Khattat (MirEmad).\r\n\r\n@I do not know what
    button to hit to make the interface appear. \r\n\r\nMirEmad has no interface,
    by mouse-left-clicking its icon, \r\nit shows upto the face then shrinks + sits
    at right bottom of the screen.\r\nPlease read its Help by mouse-right-clicking
    on its icon.\r\n\r\nThanks once again with Flowers.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-24 07:49:59'
date: '2007-09-02 10:03:53'
node_type: forum
title: Ten Commandments of Arabic Fonts

---
