---
author:
  name: Endre Berentzen
  picture: 112121
body: Hi I need some help finding some fonts for a t-shirt print. I'm looking for
  some fonts in the black (death) metal genre. Not my usual cup of tea so help anyone?
comments:
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "I guess the \"Sabbath Black\" could be right for this purpose...\r\nAnd the
    name is just right for it :>)\r\n\r\ncheerio Queneau"
  created: '2007-09-03 15:57:21'
- author:
    name: Artur Schmal
    picture: 110750
  body: "As far as I know there aren't any real Black Metal fonts avaiable. Black
    Metal logo's usually are hand-drawn with a high level of symmetry in them. Search
    for album covers of bands like Mayhem, Marduk, Burzum, Urgehal. Frakturs are often
    used to complement the typography.\r\n\r\nHope this is of any help.\r\n\r\nArtur"
  created: '2007-09-03 16:15:59'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "So symmetry is a keyword here? I really should know all this comming from
    the death metal capital of the world but when it is not your cup of tea it is
    not your cup of tea;-)\r\nAny other traits that are linked to this typography?"
  created: '2007-09-03 16:24:51'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: '[[http://www.houseind.com/index.php?page=showfont&id=581|Blaktur]] could
    be right up your alley.'
  created: '2007-09-03 16:29:47'
- author:
    name: Artur Schmal
    picture: 110750
  body: Ah yes now I see, Bergen. Pretty infamous I believe in terms of Black Metal.
    :)
  created: '2007-09-03 16:32:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "About two years ago some obscure black metal band got a lot of press by hiring
    a designer to do an album cover without the usual genre cliches. \r\n\r\nAnyway,
    black metal albums tend to feature a big hideous custom logo that\u2019s modified
    to look symmetrical, dripping with pus, blood, and or spiderwebs. It\u2019s common
    for them to be all but completely unreadable. All other text should be either
    in a scary-looking blackletter or a roman with lots of sharp points."
  created: '2007-09-03 16:35:49'
- author:
    name: Arild
    picture: 113062
  body: "What typeface to use depends a lot on what kind of black metal we are talking
    about. If it is the traditional, early nineties kind, then <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/wilhelm-klingspor-gotisch/wilhelm-klingspor-gotisch/\">Wilhelm
    Klingspor Gotisch</a> could be appropriate. But black metal comes in a lot of
    other varieties as well(folky, gothic, punky, avant-garde), and each has an accordingly
    different visual style. Either way, Blaktur is definately not the right typeface,
    as it is way too cartoonish.\r\n\r\n(And by the way, Bergen may be a black metal
    capital, but a <em>death</em> metal capital it is definately not.)"
  created: '2007-09-03 17:57:17'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "Hi Arild (Norwegian?). \r\n\r\nAgain as I said before it's not my cup of
    tea so I was probably wrong in my definition of Bergen as a death metal city.
    So it's black metal huh? What is the death metal capital and which bands are big
    in this genre. I'm guessing death metal is darker but what other differences are
    there?\r\n\r\nThanks again for your help:-)"
  created: '2007-09-03 18:08:15'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "Just checked your website Arild!\r\n\r\nYou look like you know a thing or
    two about this topic. Have you seen this? Some friends of mine are doing t-shirts
    and I was just invited to do one for their series:-)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.skuls.no"
  created: '2007-09-03 18:16:31'
- author:
    name: Arild
    picture: 113062
  body: "(Yes, I am norwegian)\r\n\r\nThe big death metal countries are sweden and
    USA. Traditional death metal has a visual style with blood, gore and colorful
    illustrations (Cannibal Corpse is a good example), whereas traditional black metal
    is more dominated by fog, nature, darkness and black and white photography. Black
    metal design should not look gory. "
  created: '2007-09-03 18:27:25'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Death Metal tends to be fast, dumb, and focused on Satanism and lyrical depictions
    of extreme violence, usually in relation to zombies, Satanism, and anti-Christian
    genocide. Some of it is quite tongue in cheek, but there are also some nutters
    who talk it all seriously. Florida was the capital of death metal in the 1990s,
    these days death metal is very much on the wane and doesn\u2019t have much of
    a locale. It\u2019s sort of hard to keep an audience when one lionizes Albert
    Fish.\r\n\r\nBlack metal tends to focus on Norse mythology, with some Satanism
    and violence chucked in for tongue-in-cheek fun. The music tends to be more melodic
    and experimental than death metal, and every once in a while a band even tricks
    a big label into footing the bill for a symphonic partnership album. Pretty much
    nobody takes this stuff seriously, but they won\u2019t admit it. Like Robert Plant
    and Bruce Dickinson, black metal lyricists tend to be book nerds, so history and
    literature pop up a lot; Cradle of Filth self-produced what amounts to a rock
    opera about Eresebete Bathory. Northern Europe still produces most of these bands,
    and that\u2019s where they do most of their touring.\r\n\r\nThe bands in these
    genres that have made it really big tend to overlap the genres."
  created: '2007-09-03 18:47:15'
- author:
    name: outerone
  body: the more illegible the better, black metal logos are truly the anti-logos.
    But that doesnt mean they arent cool, the best imo is the Darkthrone logo, reminds
    me of a large forest during the autumn darkness of scandinavia.
  created: '2007-09-03 20:05:57'
- author:
    name: magnus_rakeng
    picture: 109817
  body: 'I did [[http://www.melkeveien.no/portfolio/?pid=556&cat=portfolio|these]]
    for www.skuls.no. Great fun. There is no such thing as a black metal typeface.
    The best way to do it is with a pen. Most black metal logos have a homemade feel
    to it, mostly because they  are. To make it look authentic be sure to draw it
    almost symmetrical, but not quite. '
  created: '2007-09-03 22:09:44'
- author:
    name: brett jordan
    picture: 112129
  body: some lovely stuff there magnus... i hate the music, but love the typography
    :-)
  created: '2007-09-04 13:27:08'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "Thanks a lot guys. To clear one thing up I was always intending to do this
    by hand however it is important when working within a genre you are not accustomed
    too to identify certain traits hence my asking for examples of the typography.
    \r\n\r\nIt appears that this is the essence \"To make it look authentic be sure
    to draw it almost symmetrical, but not quite\".\r\n\r\nOf Magnus's t-shirts I
    especially love Gravid, it sits nicely over my perfectly rounded beer gut;-)\r\n\r\nPs:
    How is Melkeveien these days Magnus? \r\nPps: To anyone wondering who Magnus is
    look at http://www.melkeveien.no/ (probably Norway's best typographic designer)"
  created: '2007-09-04 13:35:49'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "If the end result is going to involve near-illegible blackletters, with \"a
    high degree of symmetry\", it might be worth considering trying to make an ambigram?
    (depending on the text this may or may not be feasible...)\r\n\r\n_________________________________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2007-09-04 13:57:36'
- author:
    name: magnus_rakeng
    picture: 109817
  body: "Thanks Brett. I'm not too keen on the music either :-)  The www.skuls.no
    project ('skuls' means 'even' in norwegian) is a collection of t-shirts with logos
    of fake norwegian black metal bands. It's just for fun and of course to see if
    any non-norwegian speaking people will think it is for real and buy and wear the
    t-shirts. The band names are the most dull and boring words you can think of like,
    Office, Bread, Hairdryer, Pillow case etc. \r\n\r\nEndre: Melkeveien is doing
    just fine thank you! I hear the sun is shining in Bergen today! You should buy
    the Gravid shirt. I'm sure it will look good on you. (for all of you that don't
    speak norwegian 'Gravid' means 'Pregnant')\r\n\r\ndtw: If one can manage to make
    a black metal logo into an ambiagram that would be perfect! What could be more
    evil than ambiagrams."
  created: '2007-09-04 16:42:34'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "Hehe I'm working on finding a word for the ambiagram;-)\r\n\r\nMagnus: I'll
    be wearing the t-shirt soon. (Hey Magnus; you weren't supposed to tell;-)\r\n(The
    weather is nice and I'm stuck at home with a serious deadline:-( \r\n"
  created: '2007-09-04 18:04:05'
- author:
    name: Scott Leyes
    picture: 112337
  body: Look at "wood" type faces, old block-letter printing faces you see on wanted
    posters and circus banners - lots o' these floating around out there. Also check
    out "Halloween" fonts, lotsa sites pop up this time of year include free fonts
    (check the legal).
  created: '2007-09-04 20:04:21'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Courtesy of my son's vast and unrivaled knowledge of <a href=http://www.geocities.com/SunsetStrip/Lounge/5264/emperor/emplogo32.jpg>
    things dark and Norwegian:</a>\r\n\r\nI kind of like <a href=http://www.roadrunnerrecords.it/shared/pictures/Opeth/Opeth-logo-dark.jpg>Opeth</a>\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-05 04:19:50'
- author:
    name: justinthomaskay
    picture: 109939
  body: "one of my favorite logos (and bands) for the genre:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/xasthur-logo_6352.png]"
  created: '2007-09-05 06:15:20'
- author:
    name: Arild
    picture: 113062
  body: "The Skuls project is quite funny, but not all the shirts look black metal
    to me. For instance the use of umlauts in a logo, like the Haarf\xF6ner logo,
    signals that this is thrash metal band. But the ones Magnus made, especially the
    Putevar and Spasertur logos, are brilliant.\r\n\r\nLike Justin, I do quite like
    the music of Xasthur, but I am not too keen on their logo (too messy for my taste).
    One of my favorite logos is the Borknagar logo:\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/borknagar-logo_6385.jpg]\r\n\r\nOther
    favorites are the aforementioned Darkthrone and Emperor logos."
  created: '2007-09-05 09:35:01'
- author:
    name: magnus_rakeng
    picture: 109817
  body: "You are right Arild. Many of the logos have little to do with Black Metal.
    \"Spasertur\" and \"Putevar\" should be availabe soon.\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-05 10:38:47'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "Thanks a lot guys! Keep em coming. \r\nI agree they don't all look black
    metal but that doesn't matter as long as someone (from outside of Norway) buys
    them;-)"
  created: '2007-09-05 10:45:29'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/morrtohead_5479.png]\r\nNo black metal
    either, but a very cute and self-deprecating persiflage of a heavy metal classic
    for \u2018softies\u2019 Ms. John Soda/Morr by <a href=\"http://www.humanempire.com/\">Jan
    Kruse</a>.\r\nCame to my mind when reading about \u2018Pillow case\u2019 etc \u2026
    Great stuff, Magnus! :\xB0D"
  created: '2007-09-05 11:29:27'
- author:
    name: Arild
    picture: 113062
  body: Where can we buy the Skuls shirts, by the way?
  created: '2007-09-05 11:41:44'
- author:
    name: magnus_rakeng
    picture: 109817
  body: "You can buy them here: www.skuls.no\r\nIt does not work very well in Safari.
    Use Firefox if you are using a Mac."
  created: '2007-09-05 13:35:19'
- author:
    name: justinthomaskay
    picture: 109939
  body: "another fave:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/leviathan_logo_inv_6298.png]"
  created: '2007-09-05 16:08:50'
- author:
    name: rui abreu
    picture: 111513
  body: 'You can see a lot of [[http://www.linotype.com/345/ducdeberry-family.html|duc
    de berry]] in the swedish black metal band Marduk. '
  created: '2007-09-05 17:35:24'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Tasty Thread! Thanks.
  created: '2007-09-06 05:16:57'
- author:
    name: Silvermule
    picture: 111376
  body: "Bastard may do the job\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/virusfonts/bastard/even-fatter/"
  created: '2007-09-06 07:35:15'
- author:
    name: Vysionous
    picture: 112476
  body: "Endre, it depends on which sub-genre that black metal band plays. If you
    state the sub-genre they play, maybe I can help you and give you some examples
    on the fonts that are used.\r\n\r\n\r\n--\r\nhttp://vysionous.deviantart.com"
  created: '2007-09-07 14:18:14'
- author:
    name: Dante_Pilcrow
    picture: 115238
  body: "Endre,\r\n\r\nI am sure your deadline has come and gone and you're up to
    your 3rd pressing of your awesome shirts (which I am very curious to see!)...but
    I just had to chime in on some example of \"metal\" band logos.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    I am both a Typo-nerd as well as a metalhead, and it has come to my attention
    that since metal has become more mainstream, the logos of such bands have become
    well crafted and readable (well, not in all cases, but some are just so awesome
    to look at!)\r\n\r\nHere is an abridged list of bands with (in my opinion) very
    well crafted logos.  Since I know you probably won't spend the time looking at
    each and every one, I have marked the ones I found particularly striking with
    a dash (must see!).\r\n\r\n-Aborted\r\n-The Absence\r\n-All Shall Perish\r\n-Arsis\r\nAnata\r\n-Becoming
    the Archetype *2 different logos for each album, both very nice*\r\n-The Black
    Dahlia Murder\r\nCryptopsy\r\nDarkane\r\nDeath\r\n-Decapitated\r\nDragonforce\r\nExodus\r\n-The
    Faceless\r\nGlass Casket\r\nGojira\r\nGwar\r\n-Heaven Shall Burn\r\nJacknife\r\n-Job
    For a Cowboy\r\nKrisiun\r\nA Life Once Lost\r\nMoria\r\n-Necrophagist\r\n-The
    Red Chord\r\nShadows Fall\r\nUnearth\r\nUphill Battle\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-18 06:23:41'
- author:
    name: Dante_Pilcrow
    picture: 115238
  body: I also would recommend http://sinisterfonts.com/
  created: '2008-06-18 06:32:35'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "I was bored :D\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DeathMetal_6709.gif]\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-06-19 08:18:00'
- author:
    name: plaguesofwrath
    picture: 119407
  body: "I'm not sure if this issue has been resolved, but I felt compelled to comment
    anyway.  First: there IS a black metal font, although it's not the greatest in
    the world... Just google \"Ultimate Black Metal Font\" and it'll come up.\r\n\r\nIf
    it's a black metal logo you're looking to do, there's one person you should try
    to contact on the matter, and that's Christophe Szpajdel.  He has done logos for
    some of the biggest names in the genre (Emperor for example) and what's more,
    is he doesn't charge.\r\n\r\nIf you're looking to do a Death Metal logo ala-Cannibal
    Corpse, the Gushing Meadows font should suit your needs just fine, other than
    that... Just look up Death Metal logos on google and see what else is there.\r\n\r\nSecond.
    \ There is a lot of bad information here, but this isn't a music forum, it's a
    typography forum, however, the definitions here on black metal and death metal
    are so inaccurate that I must say something about it.  For a clear idea on black
    metal, forget Scandinavia almost all together, at least at first.  Go back to
    the beginning, Venom, Sodom, Hellhammer, Sarcofago, Bathory (yes they're from
    scandinavia) and other 80's black metal bands.  Black metal is, in my opinion,
    the most diverse sub-genre of metal.  You cannot clearly define it as one thing
    or another, because it depends on the band and the region.  You have bands from
    Black Witchery (hateful aggressive satanic... my favorite band) all the way to
    Woods of Ypres (mellow, sorrowful, naturistic...sometimes) and everything in between.
    \ There's symphonic black metal which tends to focus on sounding gothy, there're
    raw black metal bands who prefer to sound as primitive as they can.. You cannot,
    i repeat, cannot nail black metal down into one definition. \r\n\r\nAnd as far
    as death metal goes... While not as diverse as black metal, it is also very difficult
    to just pin to a specific definition, there are many types of death metal as well,
    including hybrids of death metal and black metal."
  created: '2010-03-06 07:26:39'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "Christophe Szpajdel's book is now available on Amazon. Got my copy last week.
    \r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Lord-Logos-Designing-Metal-Underground/dp/3899552822"
  created: '2010-03-06 19:47:50'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "A Finnish heavy band Nightwish used my font in their albums:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Tension_6212.png]\r\nNightwish
    is hardly death metal, even though we do have pretty good ones for that here in
    Finland. \r\n\r\nI was surpriced to see their choice of typeface; I was pretty
    drunk when I made this font."
  created: '2010-03-06 23:06:09'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: Ah yes, I remember this typeface from Nightwish's CD inserts. So it was you,
    Tomi! If I remember correctly, the typeface was used quite small and reversed
    on a dark background. The extraneous lines formed something like the busy "webs"
    like those seen in some of the logos pictured above; the effect is quite different,
    of course, but not completely dissimilar.
  created: '2010-03-08 14:32:51'
- author:
    name: E.Jacobson
    picture: 114464
  body: "How awesome would it be if someone came up with a Black Metal opentype with
    a ton of contextual alternates ala Liza/Studio Lettering? I'm looking at you Tal
    Leming\r\n\r\nA good way to think about BLACK Metal typography (and yes there
    is a difference between Black and Death) is to think about Textura vs Fuse."
  created: '2010-03-09 02:27:52'
- author:
    name: matt_yow
    picture: 119424
  body: black metal typography is also popularly hand drawn, at least initially. I
    can't think of a decent font that is unique, effective AND represents a specific
    metal artist.
  created: '2010-03-09 03:42:18'
- author:
    name: pheno
  body: "well just a short note on some of those logos... for sure the most are symmetric
    and well designed. but there was a great great mistake made in the third post.
    \r\n\r\nhttp://www.burzum.org/eng/library/a_burzum_story13.shtml -> the link will
    provide you the true story about the Burzum Logo... other than the most Varg here
    explains why he never had a logo in the sense of a logo. the first logo is just
    a gothic font and the second of the latest release of belus album is a nice font
    too. but it has never been ment as a logo. With that knowledge BURZUM can't take
    as a reference for a BM -logo at all.\r\nIn my eyes it's still one of the best
    bands in the genre as Varg influenced a lot of bands... sadly others play same
    riffs or equal music instead of making something new out of it. Same with the
    logo question... behind most of them the idea is the same , they look different
    but still same. those logos were nice 1990-1993 but nowadays i think we need a
    change ... or at least something new... the wheel allready excists so why devoloping
    another?\r\n\r\nso between black an deathmetal there is also a big difference.
    while the BM Logos are most times filled up with turnaround crosses and pentagrams
    or other occult-icons DM logos goes another dirrection more brutal less occult...
    anyway at the end a good logo should be handdrawn and not by freefonts - or if
    you're realy true go the burzum way and don't even follow any trend!^^ "
  created: '2010-03-26 04:51:55'
date: '2007-09-03 15:19:35'
node_type: forum
title: Black (Death) Metal typography

---
