---
author:
  name: chiefdzp
body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nI wondered if you might have some ideas on this rough BW logo design
  i've done. I need to align and tidy up, but wanted to find out what you all thought.
  I work in print mainly these days, however when I registered the name I was doing
  more new media.\r\n\r\nI wanted to reflect the following key words:\r\n\r\nprofessional\r\nforward
  moving\r\nClean\r\nWorks black and white and colour\r\nfluid\r\ntimeless\r\nfresh\r\nsolid\r\nprint
  and new media\r\n\r\nI've keep the play symbol small as I don't want to reflect
  new media too much more a balance. Although the font is 1970's est I think it does
  give a modern feel. Do you think there is a better way to go, more symbolistic way,
  using more of the play button logo.\r\n\r\nCheers for your thoughts\r\n\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/logoMPD_6538.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: malbright
    picture: 111180
  body: "I like the fact that it has an idea behind it. Honestly, I've seen controls
    such as play, pause, ff, etc., used many, many times, but the fact your logo is
    something more than just a typeface counts for a lot in my book.\r\n\r\nPersonally,
    and this is totally subjective, I think the font looks dated and sorta stale.
    But that's just me. What matters most is if you like it and can live with it.\r\n\r\nI
    am assuming you will tidy up the kerning, expecially that l/a combination.\r\n\r\nFinally,
    the small strapline is going to get lost when the logo comes down to a smaller
    size. I think this small tagline is important because without it your name strikes
    me as more of a technology than a service provider.\r\n\r\nNice idea.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-04 14:17:04'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nThanks for your comments, true and very useful. Could you suggest
    a font that might work which would reflect a more up to timeless feel.\r\n\r\nCheers\r\n\r\nDan"
  created: '2007-09-04 14:21:55'
- author:
    name: malbright
    picture: 111180
  body: "Wow. That's a big question. I think that the search is one of the big joys
    of typographic design!\r\n\r\nHere's what I suggest. Visit some of the foundries
    and see what YOU think.\r\n\r\nGo to:\r\n\r\nSudtipos\r\nFoundrytypes\r\nVeer\r\nFontShop\r\nMyFonts\r\nDie-Gestalten\r\netc.\r\n\r\nThen,
    start poking around Typophile and look at the font IDs. There are lots of treasures
    to be found and the beauty is you get to see them in use. Tip: Search Typophile
    using Google as opposed to the built-in search function. You'll get more results.
    Instructions on how to google site specifically lie elsewhere on the site.\r\n\r\nMake
    printouts of all the fonts you like. Put them on the wall. Then, walk away for
    a few days and see how you feel when you get back.\r\n\r\nWe expect a full report!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-04 16:14:01'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: Thanks, I just went through font shop had about 30 faces, this gives me lots
    more fun. I'll see if I can find something that feels more in tune with what i'm
    looking for and post the results!
  created: '2007-09-04 16:28:32'
- author:
    name: malbright
    picture: 111180
  body: "Good luck, and have fun!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-04 17:18:43'
- author:
    name: accidental
    picture: 113065
  body: "Just another point. Do you really need the 'ltd' in your stapline? As far
    as I'm aware, at least in New Zealand, you don't need to have the 'ltd' in your
    branding \u2013 it's just part of your trading name. Just having 'mediaplay design'
    will look much nicer, and you'll avoid readability issues mallbright mentioned
    when scaled down. If you stick with that composition, you can make 'design' larger,
    with the extra room and I'd suggest trying setting 'design' in all caps to make
    it more snug in there and get rid of any awkward spaces you're generating in there
    with the ascenders of the lower case."
  created: '2007-09-06 11:25:55'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: "I've been working away, looking through loads of fonts and have come up with
    a list to go on my wall to look at. The resources here are fantastic, apart from
    reading elements of typography and general looking at fonts in sample books and
    books I really haven't had a clue about what fonts to use and how to go about
    them best. I feel looking through the site I made a little process in visually
    understanding it all a bit more. I worked out that I wanted to go with a more
    fluid, open and clean font rather than the constricted one I was looking at. I
    went with fonts with short accenders and decenders as there are quite a few, and
    this makes it more neat and compact. It gave it a dial like feel which worked
    well with the play element. I ended up not liking my previous effort. I thought
    my efforts were amateurish. \r\n\r\nthe contenders (again drawn to the 1970s)\r\n\r\nchalet
    tokyo\r\nNew york and paris 1970\r\n\r\nhttp://www.houseind.com/index.php?page=showfont&id=4&subpage=viewfonts\r\n\r\nlogosman\r\nhttp://www.die-gestalten.de/fonts/detail/?id=be0db8100b6598b2010bf2f39a980049\r\n\r\ninsignia\r\nhttp://www.linotype.com/872/insignia-family.html\r\n\r\nff
    super grotesk\r\nhttp://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/fontfont/ff_super_grotesk/\r\n\r\npl
    futura maxi font\r\nhttp://www.linotype.com/157446/plfuturamaxi-family.html\r\n\r\nI
    also really loved foundry context but more for type\r\nhttp://www.foundrytypes.co.uk/foundry_context/context.html\r\n\r\nOnce
    i've made up my mind, its to the drawing board to work on the logo.\r\nI want
    to incorporate a play symbol in a circle somewhere as a graphic. My tagline will
    be something like switched on design or forward thinking\r\n\r\nAny thoughts on
    these fonts above would be gratefully received\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-13 13:58:15'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "There is this other topic in the forum: <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/36338\">wordmark
    for visual artist</a>\r\n\r\nThe designer wrote:\r\n\r\n<cite>Key words are, empowerement,
    luxury, contemporary, approachability and possibly subtly suggest her asian influence
    (specifically japanese).</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd my reply was:\r\n\r\n<cite>Anyway,
    I think you\u2019re aiming *way* too high \u2014 five \u201Ckeywords\u201D which
    appear to be contradictory with each other to the common sense. I wouldn\u2019t
    even know how to unify \u201Cempowerment\u201D with \u201Cluxury\u201D, or \u201Cluxury\u201D
    with \u201Capproachability\u201D \u2014 I\u2019d say \u201Cluxury\u201D pretty
    much negates the other two.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>If anyone actually pulls it off
    to deliver something that echoes all your five \u201Ckeywords\u201D to the majority
    of the audience, I\u2019d call him a grandmaster of design without any hesitance.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat
    you're trying to do reminds me strongly of that -- particularly your reaching
    for \"fluid\" and \"solid\" at the same time.\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-13 21:26:16'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: thanks that makes sense, I have an idea of what I want to do now. Simplicity
    is the one key word I think ;)
  created: '2007-09-13 22:12:44'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: "Latest rough logos, that are going on the wall Any comments you have good
    or bad or any favourites please say. Colours, kerning and fonts to decide on an
    clean up\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/new-logos-copy_5167.gif]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-16 17:06:19'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: I like the "forward thinking" scheme a lot. However, I strongly dislike the
    font you picked.
  created: '2007-09-16 17:14:22'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: "Hi Henry can you be a little for specific, is it personal dislike or functional
    dislike\r\nThanks for your comment, its much appreciated :)"
  created: '2007-09-16 17:18:25'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: It's personal, I guess. But I also think that font is overused, which would
    be an objective negative. I feel you'd be much better off with something like
    <a href="http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/vag-rounded/vagrounded-light/">VAG
    Rounded Light</a>.
  created: '2007-09-16 19:11:44'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: Thanks Henry for the suggestion i'll look into it.
  created: '2007-09-16 19:57:24'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "The concern I have with most of the last roughs you posted, is that they
    look very crammed (like the 2nd from the left in the middle row). As in; there
    is, in my opinion, too much going on. There are the graphic images, the wordmark,
    and then you incorporated some of the parts of the images into the wordmark as
    well. <em>And</em> then there is also the tagline.\r\nI would stick with a wordmark
    plus the image, and don't put any more doodles around it.\r\nYou might find a
    solution for the tagline, but check if you really need it. You can always put
    that tagline in another way on your stationary (or whatever you will put it on)."
  created: '2007-09-17 01:04:02'
- author:
    name: bethwilde
    picture: 113174
  body: "I'm most drawn to the pink and green circular logos, though the lower loop
    on the P seems like it should be/suggest something and it doesn't. Hve you tried
    the same look without it?\r\n\r\n----======*======----\r\n\"If someone's 'been
    around the block a few times,' it might mean he didn't have the good sense to
    give up and park in the lot.\" ~ Mike Nelson 'Mind Over Matters'"
  created: '2007-09-17 20:23:13'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: "I've been through researching and come up with this design any thoughts on
    the design colours, kerning layout would be great. My tagline is forward thinking
    design. One thing i'm worried about is the balance at the top, the thought bubbles
    come from the I. I've tried it elsewhere, but it didn't make so much sense. Would
    you drop the thought bubbles or fill them in with colour or have them in a device
    that balances it all?\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/new-logo_3855.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/1_3529.jpg]"
  created: '2007-09-24 08:41:36'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: ps. Thanks Robert for your earlier comments :)
  created: '2007-09-24 09:51:56'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: WOW. That's fast. I didn't mean to be rude even though looking at last night
    I could sound that way. It's just that I get annoyed by same problem split into
    different posts. So thank you very much. You just made our life easier. :)
  created: '2007-09-24 10:40:21'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: 'BTW: Did you try to put that rounded rectangle (the play usual icon) instead
    of letter P. I think it would still read "mediaplay". But no circles, just this
    plain triangle shape. Probably in violet. :)'
  created: '2007-09-24 10:43:06'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: I'll give it a go tonight, thanks
  created: '2007-09-24 10:48:48'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: "some attempts here, I like the idea. But people may get the wrong idea about
    my services and my wife would not be to happy. When I do what you suggested I
    read media lay  :0) or a flag which i'm not keen on. Thanks for the idea a few
    others to ponder. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/adjustment_4075.jpg]"
  created: '2007-09-24 23:07:15'
- author:
    name: EileenB
  body: "I like where you're going in concept 3 -- it has the potential to be a very
    strong mark. Have you tried playing with adding the missing descender to the triangle
    somehow? Or putting the triangle inside the counter of the p?  Perhaps it needs
    a different font to make it <em>really</em> work? \r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.eileenburke.org\">Eileen
    Burke Graphic Design</a>"
  created: '2007-09-24 23:54:09'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: "hi,\r\n\r\nThis would be no.6, but I really don't like it any ideas on improving
    it?"
  created: '2007-09-25 08:37:58'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "I'm wondering about the font, too. Do you really love the current one so
    much you're simply unwilling to try out others?\r\n\r\nI have to say, with the
    current font, there is simply no way the logo can work for me -- at all. To me,
    the ugliness of the font will just overshadow everything."
  created: '2007-09-25 13:53:24'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: hi i'll try some new fonts tonight out, having t buy the fonts each time is
    a costly exercise, I look at vag rounded again which one would you work with from
    the above henry?
  created: '2007-09-25 14:35:52'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "I usually just work with a preview of the font from FontShop or wherever
    to see how it'll look before actually buying it. It won't be a vector, but it'll
    give you a good sense of how the design will work.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2007-09-25 18:21:34'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: Ditto. Veer has a font preview tool as well as a full character map for that
    sort of on the fly testing.
  created: '2007-09-25 18:41:47'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "Plus, Veer lets you preview ligatures (not sure if FontShop does).\r\n\r\n
    - Lex"
  created: '2007-09-25 21:31:50'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: "thanks for the posts, didn't know that about veer :), I knew about the previews
    but I thought posting a copy of something I didn't own was illegal\r\n\r\ncould
    you have a look at these and give an opinion\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/adjustment2_5224.jpg]"
  created: '2007-09-25 22:22:59'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: You've decided to drop the "forward thinking" scheme (I don't mean the tagline,
    but the "think bubble")? I don't like any of the latest batch.
  created: '2007-09-25 22:37:22'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: but you like the font Henry, would that be a positive? ;) I got the feeling
    no one like the forward thinking idea and that it was confusing to the initial
    design. Seperate almost to the key of the design. Thanks for the post though!
    I see if any other comments and maybe go back to the drawing board or to a previous
    design. I do like this font too, it has a bit more playfulness to it
  created: '2007-09-25 23:21:13'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: Why did you feel "no one like the forward thinking idea"? I clearly said in
    my second comment, "I like the 'forward thinking' scheme a lot." Did you not see
    that?
  created: '2007-09-26 00:16:05'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: 'your right henry apologies. I''m going to give it a rest for a while maybe.
    Its all just not been right :( '
  created: '2007-09-26 07:34:01'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: "Hi although as rough as you can get do you think this has some legs in it.
    A previous thought \r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo-copy_4075.jpg]"
  created: '2007-09-26 21:40:15'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "This latest one is very interesting. You might want to round the three corners
    of the triangle. It would be interesting to see it in conjunction with a wordmark
    using the same typeface as the 'm'.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2007-09-26 21:45:34'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: Thanks lex for the comment, I butchered another font to get this. I wanted
    to create good positive and negative space. Maybe if I post it in whats this font
    I might get some suggestions to the nearest type of font that could work with
    this.
  created: '2007-09-26 21:56:09'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: FYI, mediaplay is (er...was? Are they still in business?) a chain of somewhat
    cheesy strip mall music retail stores here in the US. Might want to take that
    into consideration depending on your locale.
  created: '2007-09-26 22:29:17'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: they went bust, bought out and then disovled I think. i'm in the uk and had
    the name for 15 years. Thanks for the note though. Any comments on the comp?
  created: '2007-09-26 23:04:14'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: Make absolutely sure the "m" is distinctly different to that of McDonald's.
  created: '2007-09-27 18:17:35'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: I can't think of anything I would less like to be associated with. I'm bit
    of a food lover and work a lot with food so that association would be a killer
  created: '2007-09-27 20:18:28'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "How about using a version of \"m\" that doesn't have a \"double swing\"?
    That would instantly seperate it from the \"Big Mac\".\r\n\r\nA few examples:\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/paratype/magistral/\">Magistral</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/dooleytype/biortec/\">Biortec</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/industria/\">Industria</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/phatphonts/equaliser/\">Equaliser</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/madtype/mercado/\">Mercado</a>\r\n\r\nAll
    those fonts have a lower case \"m\" without a double swing."
  created: '2007-09-27 21:04:02'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: BTW, I agree with Lex that the corners of the rectangle should be rounded.
  created: '2007-09-27 21:12:25'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: "how do you feel about these combos? Thank you for the suggestions. I think
    the first logo M will need work, kaufmann bold is the font with it\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ROUNDED_4776.jpg]"
  created: '2007-09-27 22:13:41'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "When I mentioned resemblance to the Big Mac, I actually meant the \"m\" you
    had there. Obviously I didn't communicate that clearly enough, since you're still
    keeping it.\r\n\r\nAlso, the rounded corners of the triangle should be much more
    visible -- with significantly larger rounding radius.\r\n\r\nNow, allow me to
    suggest the following concept:\r\n\r\n1. Create a rectangle with rounded corners
    -- thick white outline, no fill;\r\n2. Add a vertical stroke in the middle and
    erase the bottom side -- now you have a \"m\" which is symmetrical and without
    double swing;\r\n3. Put a triangle with rounded corners around the \"m\" -- black
    fill, one angle pointing downwards;\r\n4. Rotate the whole thing, which should
    still be left-right-symmetrical until this point, 30 degree clockwise."
  created: '2007-09-27 22:45:13'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: thanks henry sounds good, i'll give it a go and see
  created: '2007-09-28 07:58:45'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: "just quickly done some, I'm not sure a completly on the money but the concept
    works\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo13_3795.jpg]"
  created: '2007-09-29 11:43:07'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: Could you make the "m" slimmer? And maybe increasing the rounding radius of
    the corners somewhat.
  created: '2007-09-29 11:48:24'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: do you mean narrower?
  created: '2007-09-29 11:53:49'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: "Thanks Henry thats very kind of you, I see what you mean. Your comments have
    been great so far. Its a fantastic look but maybe not me. It feels very technical,
    for another company it would be perfect. But I don't think this is right for me
    being a very untechnical type of designer, i'm more passion, far out there, enthusiasm
    (bad spelling) type of designer.\r\nSo as far as this route goes i'm better going
    back to something more like a handwritten font maybe. Thanks for the time you
    have put in"
  created: '2007-09-29 15:10:08'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "How about this:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mediaplay_4943.png]\r\n\r\nIt
    seems to be easier just showing you what I meant than explaining it...\r\n\r\nEDIT:
    Tweaked a bit."
  created: '2007-09-29 15:34:28'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: "A few more, I might look to change the chalet, but the mark is more interesting
    to me at the moment, I love the font but it sounds overused. The other font i'm
    looking at is sauna \r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/underware/sauna/\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo14_3754.jpg]"
  created: '2007-09-30 10:01:30'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: Pretty odd angles there in the triangle. Is that intentional?
  created: '2007-09-30 11:58:32'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: 'I like #6. Not the "m" in the triangle, but the effect of the triangle. I
    like that. But angles are in did somehow slanted...'
  created: '2007-09-30 12:45:57'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: "and there's some more adjusted ones, new font too which I like\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo15_4686.jpg]"
  created: '2007-09-30 17:23:59'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: more coming
  created: '2007-10-01 22:40:49'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: "I've custom adjusted a font and gone back to an original idea, let me know
    what you think.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo18_4030.jpg]"
  created: '2007-10-03 13:45:41'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: Aside from the fact that I still really dislike your choices of typefaces,
    the concept is definitely more workable than the "smugged triangles".
  created: '2007-10-03 19:23:32'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: thanks henry for the post. I like the faces you like too, but I want to get
    it away from a techi web feel as much as possible. i think it balances better
    and the customisation makes the face a little more dynamic i hope.
  created: '2007-10-03 20:16:18'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "The reason I dislike your choices of typefaces is absolutely not that they're
    \"not techi\", nor do I think for a second that they represent the opposite of
    \"techi\" -- should that be the goal here.\r\n\r\nActually, I don't even consider
    my own preference for typefaces to be \"techi\", since I use classical serif fonts
    whenever possible instead of modern sans. There are plenty of great fonts I love
    out there which aren't \"techi\" at all.\r\n\r\nThe first and foremost impression
    your fonts -- pretty much all of them -- give me, are:\r\n\r\n1. \"retro\" (or
    \"outdated\", if put less complimentary) -- those typefaces are typical for the
    \"disco era\";\r\n2. \"amateurish\" -- not necessarily in the bad sense of the
    term, but still.\r\n\r\nAt this time, I think it would be a good idea to re-define
    the objectives you want to achieve with your logo. Originally you listed nine
    of them, which were obviously too much. But since then, you haven't made the decision
    about what to cut and what to keep -- so perhaps they're all still floating in
    the back of your head and causing constant confusion to some degree?\r\n\r\nThink
    about it and name one or two objectives (it may also be three, if they're things
    that naturally belong together, like \"higher, faster, further\"). That should
    help you clear your mind a lot."
  created: '2007-10-04 02:54:31'
- author:
    name: EileenB
  body: "Have you considered using the font <a href=\"http://www.houseind.com/index.php?page=showfont&id=18&subpage=viewfonts\">
    Neutraface</a> or <a href=\"http://www.houseind.com/index.php?page=showfont&id=94\">
    Neutra Condensed?</a> I agree with everything Henry said -- and since you're still
    exploring fonts, why not try a few that aren't \"techi\" or \"retro\"? Make your
    statement more simply - just \"professional.\"\r\n\r\nEileen\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.eileenburke.org\">Eileen
    Burke Graphic Design</a>"
  created: '2007-10-04 05:07:13'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: "Thanks for your comments. Henry I only making comment to what you had said
    in the past on this post. Not down to your taste in general, which i'm sure is
    exceptional and wide. I have looked at neutraface its a lovely font. Certainly
    more classy than what I have. I'll look at it again thought. I really like the
    personality of the 70's fonts. These are the key words that I've got down to since
    my last list.\r\n\r\nApproachable\r\nforward moving\r\nversitile\r\n\r\nI have
    to say i'm pretty happy with what I have. I've asked my designer friends and they
    like it. But who's to say they have taste. However if I can do better I will and
    I will look at your kind suggestions\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-04 08:18:24'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Taking a geometric rounded face and adding serifs from Serif Gothic is not
    a good look, especially when it produces oddly stressed strokes in what are otherwise
    almost monoline characters. I cannot see how you would apply <em>forward moving</em>
    or <em>versatile</em> as adjectives to the result.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-10-04 14:42:19'
- author:
    name: jonsel
    picture: 111354
  body: I hate to jump in at the last moment and say some negative things, especially
    considering it seems there's been a lot of work going on. But, if I read your
    desires to be less about new media and more about print (or at least a balance
    of the two), then your firm name is completely wrong. Similarly, if you want to
    convey less interactivity, why would you insist on using the 'play' symbol that
    clearly evokes an interactive nature? I'd give some considerable thought to that
    before settling on a design. Perhaps this is why you've gone through so many different
    iterations of the logo and not felt completely at ease with them.
  created: '2007-10-04 15:41:15'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: Thanks for the comments. Changing the name or moving into new media look like
    the only options with this one. I new it with my original post. Hoped I could
    make it work
  created: '2007-10-04 21:00:00'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "I'm really glad you've narrowed down your list of keywords, and I think the
    list is workable, too. But as others haven suggested, those keywords aren't being
    carried by your logo design(s) yet.\r\n\r\nAnd I can't agree more with Jon --
    I share exactly the same confusions (among others) about what you're trying to
    do here. To be blunt, I believe there is a gap between what you are (as a designer)
    and what you want to do (again, as a designer), and you need to deal with this
    conflict (a certain \"split of identity\") first before you can proceed.\r\n\r\nIf
    that sounds too philosophical to you, here is an example of practical problem:
    There's a certain conflict between \"approachability\" (depending on which sense
    of the word we're looking at) and \"new media\". On the \"approachable\" side,
    the font style you're looking for -- which you call \"non-techi\" -- is usually
    called \"casual\", and that's a major font category, with lots of great fonts
    to choose. The problem is, the vast majority can't be associated with \"new media\"
    in any way, because to a certain degree, \"new media\" implies \"telecommunication\"
    and \"mass media\", which in turn implies \"no direct contact\" and \"de-personalization\",
    respectively.\r\n\r\nThe only practical way I see to unify \"modernness\" and
    \"approachability\" is to feature an \"approachable\" motif (for example, one
    that can trigger sentimental associations) in a \"modern\" style. A good example:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/36014\r\n\r\nBut
    before we discuss that, I\u2019d rather urge you again to clear with yourself
    what you really want \u2014 answer the philosophical questions first, the principal
    ones second, the conceptual third, and the implementational last.\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-05 01:57:54'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: (merged with the other comment)
  created: '2007-10-05 01:59:03'
date: '2007-09-04 14:10:27'
title: New design logo/ freelance designer

---
