---
author:
  name: dohdoh
body: 'What type of coffee machine do you have in your office? Like it? How''s the
  coffee taste? We''ve got a Bunn Auto Drip one and no matter what we put through
  it it taste less than desirable. '
comments:
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "I love coffee. That\u2019s why I don\u2019t use a machine to make it."
  created: '2007-09-06 21:41:03'
- author:
    name: akma
    picture: 110015
  body: I use a French press with fresh ground coffee when I can, but I'm not disciplined
    enough to have perfected a system for optimal coffee brew-age. The amount of coffee
    I use, brewed for about the time I usually brew it for, produces pretty good coffee,
    usually.
  created: '2007-09-06 21:58:10'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Hrant would say: <cite>Where\u2019s the type?</cite> ;\xB0)"
  created: '2007-09-06 22:11:43'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "> Hrant would say: Where\u2019s the type? ;\xB0)\r\n\r\nThat was actually
    my first thought when read the topic title."
  created: '2007-09-06 22:27:21'
- author:
    name: tina
    picture: 109693
  body: "quote: \"... How do you maintain this spirit ...\" \r\n(...) \"... provide
    the best espresso machine in the street ...\"\r\n(see: http://www.spiekermann.com/mten/2007/06/)\r\n\r\n;o)\r\n\r\nIt's
    funny, I researched a lot some time ago, so I can provide the common recommendations
    of the espresso forums in D for perfect italian moments (best in combination with
    a really good coffee mill):\r\n\r\n- Oscar Nuova Simonelli (robust and good coffee)\r\n-
    a little more expensive: Bezzera BZ 99 (more shiny, also good coffee)\r\n- much
    more expensive: La Cimbali junior (... sigh ...)"
  created: '2007-09-06 22:33:34'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I use a [[http://www.aktie-online.nl/images/843410.jpg|Philips Coffee Gourmet]]
    machine, because it actually boils the water before it touches the coffee grind.
    A lot of coffee machines don't do that, they just make it warm-ish. This is for
    very good coffee. If I want a quick, but still fairly good coffee, I use a  [[http://www.dejuistekeus.nl/images/philips_hdsenseotitanium.jpg|Philips
    Senseo]] machine with coffee-pads.\r\nBut as long as the machine boils the water,
    the beans or grind are important as well."
  created: '2007-09-06 22:34:31'
- author:
    name: akma
    picture: 110015
  body: OK -- [[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/larabie/kenyan-coffee/|Kenyan Coffee]]?
    [[http://www.haroldsfonts.com/redcircle.html|Eight O'Clock Coffee]]?
  created: '2007-09-06 22:35:41'
- author:
    name: magnus_rakeng
    picture: 109817
  body: Here's the type! I've got a tamper with a modified Rancilio logo. My initals
    are MR so it was an obvious (and i guess a very nerdy thing to do). For me there
    is no type design without a few double shots. My machine is a Rancilio Silvia
    and the grinder is a Rancilio Rocky.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/magnus_espresso_4653.jpg]
  created: '2007-09-06 22:40:47'
- author:
    name: Stefan H
    picture: 109742
  body: "We have a Gaggia Classic at our office. I'll buy the coffee fresh every week
    from our local espresso bar nearby, Salinos (yes I've made there logo). They have
    a wonderful brand by the name of Zicaff\xE9... one of the best i've tried, from
    sicily of course.\r\n\r\n/Barista brutto!"
  created: '2007-09-06 22:47:47'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: I knew Stefan would chime in. He is ritualistic about his espresso. Being
    raised in Utah I wasn't exposed to much coffee. Stefan introduced me to espresso
    when I worked in his office a few years ago, and now that our office has an espresso
    machine I don't ever drink drip coffee. We got this <a href="http://www.coffeegeek.com/reviews/consumer/gaggia_espresso">Gaggia</a>
    and have been happy with it. It's rated at CoffeeGeek as the best espresso maker
    under $300.
  created: '2007-09-06 23:04:17'
- author:
    name: tina
    picture: 109693
  body: "Surprisingly not bad either although it's no \"real espresso\" (but there
    is \"crema\", produced by a special valve):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bialetti_brikka_3668.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nBut
    the coffee grinder is really essential. And of course the coffee, which I think
    has to be tested with the machine. There are huge differences how the same coffee
    tastes when brewed with a different machine. With Bialetti Brikka e.g. 100% Arabica
    coffee is too subtle. And the coffee shouldn't be too old. At the moment I use
    an indonesian mixture called \"sulawesi kalossi\", freshly roasted by the coffee
    bar in town, mhm ..."
  created: '2007-09-06 23:23:06'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I think those Bialetti things do make 'real espresso'?\r\nI have used those
    every now and then as well, nice coffee."
  created: '2007-09-06 23:35:55'
- author:
    name: tina
    picture: 109693
  body: "It's only from a purist's view and it's based on the steam developed while
    brewing coffee: \r\n\"Common\" Bialettis produce a beverage called \"mokka\",
    with Brikka it's a bit different because of the special valve. Here the steam
    is accumulating until the vapor pressure has reached 6 bar. Big espresso machines
    generally reach more (ca. 10) bar, which results in a better \"crema\".\r\nTo
    complicate things even more: oriental coffee brewed in a little pitcher (boiled
    up 3 times, with lots of sugar and a little cardamom, no accumulating of steam)
    is also called mokka."
  created: '2007-09-07 00:15:16'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I keep it as simple as possible and use a Melitta one-cup drip cone. It does
    nothing special and doesn\u2019t make the best coffee around, but it takes about
    a second to empty and I can run it through the dishwasher. \r\n\r\nFWIW, Keuring
    machines may be quick and easy office coffee makers, but they produce some of
    the most pathetic coffee I have ever tasted."
  created: '2007-09-07 00:15:17'
- author:
    name: umlautthoni
    picture: 111959
  body: "This is a very interesting subject. At my desk I have a Senseo coffee pod
    machine. Not bad, not great.\r\n\r\nIn the studio we have the Keurig k-cup system.
    Better, but still not great. I have chosen to use the Keurig system because I
    have found a distributor that sells a 25-serving box of Jet Fuel by Coffee People
    $10.95. Keeps me from spending $$$$ at the local coffee shop (It's a Grind).\r\n\r\nHowever,
    I spoke with a kind gentleman at Peet's Coffee. I wanted to intall the Miele espresso
    machine with warming drawer in my home. I love the beautiful lines and would hate
    to have yet another appliance sitting on my countertop. He informed me to stay
    away from the Swiss and German espresso machines. (Breaks my heart as I am of
    100% German/Swiss descent) He gave me this list of names for great coffee makers:\r\nGaggia\r\nLa
    Marzocco\r\nLivia\r\nLa Pavoni\r\n(all Italian brands)\r\n\r\nIf you're really
    a coffee snob, you would do the French press route with extremely cold filtered
    water, freshly ground beans, heat the water to the precise temp, brew the coffee
    for the required time period, plunge enjoy. Then there are some that would say
    the remaining coffee is too bitter because it is still technically brewing and
    won't be the same as the first cup."
  created: '2007-09-07 00:49:02'
- author:
    name: Gary Long
    picture: 112662
  body: To avoid drinking too much coffee, and to make a bit of a ritual of each cup,
    I use a manual one-cup drip cone, pouring the boiling water into it very slowly
    making sure to keep all the grounds constantly submerged. The coffee itself is
    Nabob Full City Dark Roast. No doubt not the best brew in the world, but I like
    it and it's better than Tim Hortons any day. Being a one-man office, this system
    works fine.
  created: '2007-09-07 01:42:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "At home - Robert Norton's old Gaggia and a basic no-name filter machine\r\nAt
    work - Starbucks iCup"
  created: '2007-09-07 01:51:44'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "http://www.merchantsofgreencoffee.com/\r\nMy favourite so far is Yemen Matari.\r\n\r\nI
    roast it, grind it up, pour boiling water on it and filter it.\r\n\r\nAt my office?
    They took the machine (which actually grinds the coffee on the spot and  makes
    a decent cup)out 'cuase of renovations, so it's Tim Hortons, since there's no
    decent coffee shops where my office is. "
  created: '2007-09-07 03:19:40'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "Cheap coffee machine + burr grinder + various fair trade coffees for extra
    smugness.   I avoid buying the same coffee twice because I heard somewhere that
    life is short.\r\n\r\nCan anyone recommend a kick-ass burr grinder? Mine is getting
    close to retirement."
  created: '2007-09-07 04:29:52'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I have a special self modified Bialetti Brikka which I nickel electro-plated.
    Feel free to contact me offline for instructions on how to make the best Bialetti
    Coffee. I did many experiments... BTW the lettering for brikka logo is pretty
    bad. There is the type.
  created: '2007-09-07 04:46:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Tina,\r\nYou are making me crave a cup of your coffee!That sounds delicious
    from 5000 miles away :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-07 05:07:24'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: You guys make me feel bad for getting my coffee at Trader Joes instead of
    the awesome, dozens-of-varieties place around the corner.
  created: '2007-09-07 05:16:56'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">You guys make me feel bad for getting my coffee at Trader Joes instead of
    the awesome, dozens-of-varieties place around the corner.\r\n\r\nDon't feel bad
    - there are people out there who just use one font. ;-)"
  created: '2007-09-07 05:31:01'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Funny - maybe people involved in good type - must enjoy good coffee....\r\n\r\nI
    use to be a real coffee drinker - but not anymore. My stepson uses a machine and
    coffee by Gevalia. Anyone here use it to? He swears by it. http://www.gevalia.com/Gevalia/\r\n\r\nI
    remember steamed coffee, sock coffee, perculator coffee, the coffee that you boil
    the water in the lower pot, it rises and when you gave the color you want, turn
    the gas off and let it drip back down coffee, oh let's not forget drip coffee
    - where would we have been without our Melitas? and then in the early 1980s I
    discovered the press - and kept using that. If it was good enough for Hemingway
    - the it is good enough for me!"
  created: '2007-09-07 13:10:28'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I'm now an iced-coffee addict. I use the toddy:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/s/002-3285529-0773647?ie=UTF8&tag=mozilla-20&index=blended&link%5Fcode=qs&field-keywords=toddy&sourceid=Mozilla-search"
  created: '2007-09-07 14:19:15'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: ">>My coffee guru (who works at the hippest coffee shop in Copenhagen, Denmark)
    is trying to make me drink only Jamaican Blue Mountain<<\r\n\r\nYour guru is right!
    \r\nBut I could never afford to drink only Blue Mountain, so I have to limit myself
    to once in a while.\r\n\r\nJason C "
  created: '2007-09-07 14:30:42'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I use the Melitta one-cup drip cone too, like James. I work at home and have
    a tiny kitchen. If I had more counter space I'd get an espresso machine - there's
    a Krups a friend has that I like. I hate old coffee so whatever I use it has to
    be made fresh. Don't like the french press because it gets grainy.\r\n\r\nFor
    coffee I use a dark roast, Italian or French. I make it super strong and while
    the water is boiling for the coffee I warm up some milk, so it's almost a latte.
    I get my beans at Fairway or at Gorilla Coffee in Brooklyn which gives you a free
    cup of coffee if you buy a pound of beans. I grind them myself using a little
    Krups grinder."
  created: '2007-09-07 15:19:09'
- author:
    name: Christian Barca
    picture: 112373
  body: "Nespresso, What else?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/s320x240_3816.jpg]\r\n\r\nThis
    reminds me of bill murray in lost in translation during the whiskey ad.\r\n__________________________________________________\r\nFischers
    Fritz fischt frische Fische, frische Fische fischt Fischers Fritz"
  created: '2007-09-07 15:25:03'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: '[[http://www.nantucketcoffee.com/|Nantucket Coffee]] ground fresh. I use
    bottled water as our tap water doesn''t make a good cup. '
  created: '2007-09-07 15:29:10'
- author:
    name: Small Caps
    picture: 112615
  body: 'I use a French press... which is acceptable, as long as you drink the coffee
    right away. The quality of the beans is essential. My coffee guru (who works at
    the hippest coffee shop in Copenhagen, Denmark) is trying to make me drink only
    Jamaican Blue Mountain or Papua New Guinea. Ethiopian Mocca is just passable. '
  created: '2007-09-07 15:29:36'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: No one drinking the $160 per pound Kopi Luwak coffee? ;)
  created: '2007-09-07 15:34:45'
- author:
    name: Christian Barca
    picture: 112373
  body: "The best coffee I ever had, was in milan at the train station in the morning
    at 9 when I arrived there. It made my day. It's a pitty I didn't write the name
    down. \r\n\r\nItalian coffee makers rule!\r\n__________________________________________________\r\nFischers
    Fritz fischt frische Fische, frische Fische fischt Fischers Fritz."
  created: '2007-09-07 15:44:58'
- author:
    name: tungsteno
    picture: 128122
  body: "for tina and all the Bialetti moka lovers out there:\r\n\r\nhttp://it.youtube.com/watch?v=jomcKBngTyY\r\n\r\nOmino
    Bialetti, typographically speaking :)"
  created: '2007-09-07 16:32:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Cuppa, cuppa, cuppa...:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-07 16:33:09'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "I've got two old reliables . . .\r\n\r\n1) Jura-Capresso Z6 Super Automatic
    (got a nice license deal and decided to treat myself) - Loaded with Starbucks
    Espresso blend of half regular and half decaf - Tip: Buy Starbucks beans only
    from Starbucks free standing stores, not in Target Starbucks, the beans are drownding
    in oils to further preserve shelf life at retail chains.\r\n\r\nMachine is mostly
    used for Cappucinos and Americanos (and Frothed Milk + NesQuick for Hot Cocoa
    for the Kiddos)\r\n\r\n2) Starbucks Barista Thermal Mug Machine - When I'm in
    the mood for good old fashioned drip, this machine honestly makes better coffee
    than my Krups and keeps it hot right in the mug it drips in for like half the
    day. Also, Starbucks House Blend or Breakfast Blend.\r\n\r\nIt should be noted
    we have acquired a near collection of coffee machines ranging from 1950s percolators
    to vacuum pots to Senseo and so fourth . . . I worked at Gloria Jeans during my
    college years and became a coffee snob once I knew better . . . BTW, there is
    no finer coffee on a week long fishing trip in Canada than propane fired perk
    with the grounds sunk at the bottom . . . It's horrible and I love it!\r\n\r\nOf
    course my reply is going on but there is something so very simple and complex
    about coffee machines that is just appealing to me in a gadgety way. It's just
    steeping near boiling water over ground beans but like toasters or mouse traps,
    there are like a billion ways to do it . . . I'm always pleased with new ideas
    on a very old process . . .\r\n\r\nStuart :D"
  created: '2007-09-07 16:38:26'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Stuart \r\n\r\nI have always been leery of Starbucks. When I was last living
    in NYC (up to 1999) there were several lawsuits against Starbucks. I don't know
    how they fanned out - but...\r\n\r\n1. One of the early 1990s years - they sold
    more Hawaaian Kona Beans then Hawaai produced that year;\r\n\r\nand \r\n\r\n2.
    All those lovely sacks of 100% Columbian - weren't."
  created: '2007-09-07 16:53:05'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "As with any coffee, it always comes down to personal preference of taste
    which is my judge of coffee I favor . . .\r\n\r\nI've spent big bucks on Intelligencia
    and enjoyed many pots 'o Eight O Clock but at the end of the day, I have no problem
    patronozing Starbucks since my latte factor has dropped at least 400% from buying
    $4 crappucinos from poorly trained baristas to about .25\xA2 per cappucino making
    it at home of course with their beans . . .\r\n\r\n:D"
  created: '2007-09-07 16:59:44'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Usually I buy my coffee grind/beans or take away coffee at [[http://www.simonlevelt.nl/|Simon
    L\xE9velt]], \r\na Dutch coffee company which has been roasting and selling coffee
    for over 200 years. Tea as well. A lot of know-how, honesty and very good quality
    coffee. But most of it is quite expensive as well."
  created: '2007-09-07 17:02:40'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>As with any coffee, it always comes down to personal preference of
    taste which is my judge of coffee I favor . . .</cite>\r\n\r\nToo true. I share
    a beach house with a finicky couple who have polar opposite taste in coffee. She
    likes hers dark and strong and he likes his to taste like it came from a diner
    (ick). So we need two machines, two different coffees. Her coffee is understandably
    more popular although at times it tastes like it can take the paint off your car.
    Then there's a third guy in the house who inexplicably likes his coffee made in
    a percolator. This ups the ante to three machines. It's absurd. If we had to license
    our coffee per machine like fonts we'd be paying thru the nose ;-)"
  created: '2007-09-07 17:13:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I don't have an espresso machine at home (where I work), yet. But I'm getting
    tired of training every new barista at the local caf\xE9 how to pull a proper
    ristretto shot, so it is only a matter of time.\r\n\r\nMornings start with a French
    press of freshly ground fair-trade Sumatran dark.\r\n\r\nIn the afternoon I'll
    either pop out for an espresso or make Turkish coffee. If I have twenty minutes
    free (ha!) I'll hand-grind the beans for the latter, but otherwise I use the very
    excellent coffee from Kurukahveci Mehmet Effendi & Sons in Istanbul.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile,
    Ross has gone hardcore and is roasting his own beans."
  created: '2007-09-07 19:23:55'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Tungsteno, thank for the link! I don't think I've seen cartoon figures speak
    with letter shaped mouths before.\r\n\r\nAs for coffee, I only drink it in Italian
    restaurants and cafes (in Italy, if possible). Elsewhere it's tea, please, but
    not with the tea bag, if possible."
  created: '2007-09-07 19:51:30'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "I use the simpler predecessor to [[http://www.krupsusa.com/All+Products/Coffee+Machines/Espresso+coffee+machines/Products/XP1500/XP1500.htm|this
    Krups combo machine.]] Mine is called \"Caffe Duomo\", implying that you'll have
    everything you need. Drinks from this machine really remind me of the flavor of
    the espressos and cappucinos in Rome. Mine has the fatal design flaw of a rocker
    switch down low, easily turned on by accident. I think appliance makers are learning
    not to do this anymore.\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-07 20:08:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mine has the \"built in obsolescence\" very thin glass carafe that you need
    to replace annually.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-07 21:00:20'
- author:
    name: typovar
    picture: 111800
  body: I download my coffee from TypoPhile; it comes dripping down my USB-slot. I'd
    rather get some Wifi-blend, it's faster and doesn't taste like copper.
  created: '2007-09-07 21:31:35'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "Amazing; we have a non-type question as the hottest topic on typophile. It
    must be the lack of sleep wondering which typeface to use in that new ID job that
    makes type enthusiasts so consumed with their coffee;-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-07 22:14:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Coffee is oh so most definitely a type related question! Some of us type
    freaks depend on it as much as FontLab to design type :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-07 23:09:24'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: "What do you French Press users do about the \"silt\" that is left in the
    coffee? I personally don't like it, have tried pouring it through a filter, which
    takes way too much time.\r\n\r\nI would like to consider roasting beans after
    finding out from quite a few sources that roasted beans start to lose their flavor
    after about a week. Check out this site:\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.storyville.com\">Storyville
    Coffee Co.</A>\r\n\r\nNo, I don't work for them, just thought their info was interesting..."
  created: '2007-09-07 23:30:43'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Hey Chris,\r\n\r\nThere are easier methods of <a href=\"http://www.makezine.com/blog/archive/2006/03/how_to_make_a_popcorn_popper_c.html\">roasting
    your own coffee beans</a>\r\n\r\n:D"
  created: '2007-09-08 00:07:56'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Coffee stays fresh a lot longer if you get beans in cans that have been pumped
    full of nitrogen.
  created: '2007-09-08 01:15:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris: <em>What do you French Press users do about the \u201Csilt\u201D that
    is left in the coffee? I personally don\u2019t like it, have tried pouring it
    through a filter, which takes way too much time.</em>\r\n\r\nFor French press
    coffee, you want a very coarse grind to prevent small bits of coffee grounds getting
    through the press filter. Blade grinders are ideal for this (in fact, it's the
    only thing they're good for: they don't grind nearly fine enough for espresso
    or moka (e.g. Turkish coffee)). I give one short burst on a blade grinder for
    each spoonful of coffee beans (usually five for a full-size pot): that breaks
    the coffee up enough to release the flavour, but not enough to produce much 'silt'.
    There will always be a small amount of powder, no matter how coarse the grind,
    but that shouldn't bother you.\r\n\r\nMind you, I like Turkish coffee, so finding
    a small mudslide in the bottom of my cup isn't an issue."
  created: '2007-09-08 01:28:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My grandmother required that mudslide to tell my fortune :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-08 02:03:22'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I just bought a pound of Ethiopian Yergacheffe at Gorilla Coffee in Park
    Slope. Can't wait for my morning pick-me-up.\r\n\r\nI can't stand the silt at
    the bottom of french presses. That's why I swear by my little plastic drip cone."
  created: '2007-09-08 04:57:27'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>Mind you, I like Turkish coffee, so finding a small mudslide in the
    bottom of my cup isn\u2019t an issue.</cite>\r\n\r\nFor people who don't have
    the courage to mainline caffeine directly into a vein."
  created: '2007-09-08 05:03:32'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I\u2019m happy to hear that other people still use the plastic drip cones.
    My mom also still uses one, and thought she was a freak for buying a bunch of
    them in case Melitta stocpa making them :)\r\n\r\nAnd yeah, the silt (not to mention
    the messy press) is why I gave up on the french press. Was it in a William Gibson
    novel that a Columbian character pointed out that the French know nothing about
    coffee? Anyway, whoever wrote it was right\u2014they can cook a mean duck over
    there, but the French really need to just replace their entire coffee infrastructure
    with stuff from Lavazza."
  created: '2007-09-08 05:12:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Anyone else tried coffee from one of the new Clover machines? It''s fascinating
    to watch the coffee being made: like a French press process on steroids and amphetamines,
    and I like the way the grounds are pressed out of the top of the machine to be
    scraped off. I''ve only bothered with it once, though, because there always seems
    to be a much more attractive espresso machine standing nearby...'
  created: '2007-09-08 05:58:49'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: If money was no object I'd get one of those all-in-one capuccino machines
    that grind and brew it for you. I stayed in a fancy hotel once that had them in
    the rooms, you sleepily pushed a button et voila, you had espresso, fresh ground
    and all. But they are even more expensive than the iPhone (at its original price).
  created: '2007-09-08 06:12:14'
- author:
    name: tina
    picture: 109693
  body: "Oh, the espresso scented cloud lingering over typophile has grown considerably!
    \r\nAnd thanks a lot for the link to the little film!\r\n\r\nI think that the
    price is one of the reasons why the nuova simonelli oscar (smallest dual circuit,
    i.e. separate circuits for coffee and steam) is so popular in the forums in this
    country: it's available for approximately the same (original) amount as the iPhone
    - only that it's not that good looking ... ;o)\r\n\r\nMeanwhile I found out that
    brewing good espresso in the home/office has pleasantly reduced the amount of
    money I tended to carry to my favorite coffee spot in town -- I had a small swiss
    machine which gave up after 3 years and then, after some hints and experiments,
    found out how to get good stuff out of the Brikka. But I have to admit, that in
    future planning there is one of these chrome machines twinkling at me, with lots
    of coffee capacity for visiting friends, colleagues, clients, ... :-)"
  created: '2007-09-08 10:28:38'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Used for my (one or two) morning cappuccino(\u2019s): a (now discontinued
    semi-pro model of) La Spaziale\r\nhttp://www.laspaziale.com/english/macchine_en.html\r\nwih
    Lavazza 100% arabica coffee (the pregrinded kind in a can, stored in either fridge
    or freezer). \r\nMilkfoam handmade from demi-fat sterilized Dutch milk.\r\n\r\nMy
    girlfriend prefers coffee from those Italian household espressomakers you put
    on the range. Way too low-tech for me ; ).\r\n\r\n___\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2007-09-08 10:52:24'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Wow! I never considered it but this explains plenty. Can we start a list
    for clear-headed users?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-09-08 12:48:13'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: 'Stuart, have you tried that modded popcorn roaster? I was looking at a few
    home roasters online, and they''re still expensive. John, maybe the grind was
    too fine for the French press the few times I tried it. Maybe I''ll give it another
    shot. But, a barista at Intelligentsia in Chicago told me that it''s inherent
    to the French press. '
  created: '2007-09-08 15:55:10'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Has anyone tried the <a href=\"http://www.thinkgeek.com/caffeine/accessories/8e3a/\">aeropress</a>?
    \r\n\r\nAnd on a related note, has anyone else spent a whole morning on calligraphy
    only to realize that the coffee made the letters look like seismic activity readings?"
  created: '2007-09-08 16:28:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Ahhh, that grunge caligraphy effect :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-08 17:54:05'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "for the true connoi-sewer\r\n\r\nhttp://www.latimes.com/news/nationworld/world/la-fg-coffee13jul13,0,681015,full.story?coll=la-default-underdog"
  created: '2007-09-08 19:03:31'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>My machine is a Rancilio Silvia and the grinder is a Rancilio Rocky.</cite>\r\n\r\nMagnus,
    we have the same machine and grinder -- <em>and tamper!</em> (Reg Barber, yes?)\r\n\r\nIt's
    at home, not in my office, but sometimes I work at home. :)"
  created: '2007-09-08 21:20:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris: <em>My grandmother required that mudslide to tell my fortune</em>\r\n\r\nDid
    she also interpret the lamb's jawbone at Easter?"
  created: '2007-09-08 21:30:19'
- author:
    name: mike gastin
    picture: 110273
  body: "If you want the ultimate cup of coffee then forget the French Press and go
    with a vacuum pot - Yamma makes a cheap one. Smooth, subtle and the perfect cup
    every time - assuming you are using good coffee.\r\n\r\nI used to roast my own
    and all that. Now I do not typically have the time to roast, but the coffee from
    my local roaster is good enough - not perfect, but solid.\r\n\r\n--\r\nMike"
  created: '2007-09-08 21:46:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Did she also interpret the lamb\u2019s jawbone at Easter?\"\r\n\r\nNo,
    John. She did enough jawboning to my grandfather, though :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-08 22:49:45'
- author:
    name: magnus_rakeng
    picture: 109817
  body: Christopher, yes it's a Reg Barber. My Rancilio is at home as well. At the
    office we have an Isomac Giada. I like them both, but my favourite is the Rancilio.
  created: '2007-09-08 23:21:03'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "At home I have a pretty crappy drip machine with a hotplate that will burn
    the coffee if you leave it in the pot for too long. But then, I also use Maxwell
    House in it, so it doesn't much matter. \r\n\r\nMy other coffee-makers are: one
    of those tiny stove top things -- but now that I no longer have a gas stove it's
    not so great -- and a Bodum French press which I really like, but am terribly
    lazy about cleaning out afterwards. In the Bodum I use good coffee. My more recent
    forays have been \"Kick Ass\" made by Kicking Horse, which is fair trade.\r\n\r\nI
    like my coffee overly strong, and I have no problem with the silt. If it's not
    there I sorta think something's missing. My inlaws make incredibly weak (coloured
    water) coffee. Something like half a spoon of coffee for every two cups. Ew. I
    always have to remember when they visit to make it \"their way\". When they're
    over I make two pots -- the maxwell house crap and my bodum. \r\n\r\nAt work,
    I have no desk space, but I tried one of those one cup drip machines. Problem
    was it splattered, and made such a mess. Communal coffee pots just don't work
    in our office -- I even have problems even keeping a small carton of cream in
    the fridge. It either spoils or gets finished by other people (thieves!). So it's
    downstairs to Timmy's Ho for me, twice a day. I've actually grown to like it.
    Somehow it fits the work environment just so well. Every once in a while I get
    a paper cup that is leaking at the seam, and it makes the morning all the more
    enjoyable. ;) "
  created: '2007-09-09 04:20:04'
- author:
    name: belisle
    picture: 112755
  body: "Regarding the aeropress--yes, I have one and it's excellent. I'd highly recommend
    it, though it takes some calibration before you get the timing and proportions
    right. But once you get your routine, it makes great Moka-type espresso. I sometimes
    dilute it to make Americano.\r\n\r\nI used to use a [[http://chemexcoffeemaker.com/|Chemex
    manual drip coffeemaker]]. Now I just use the Aeropress (and a French press when
    I'm in the mood for unfiltered coffee). Although the Chemex makes better drip
    coffee than any automatic drip machine I've had, it's still drip coffee. I prefer
    a small, strong cup of coffee (or espresso) to a weak pitcher of drip coffee.\r\n\r\nFresh-roasted
    beans make a huge difference, as long as you grind them just before you make the
    coffee. There's no comparison between beans roasted yesterday and beans roasted
    6 months ago (that \"expire\" in another year). Check with a local independent
    coffee shop: they probably buy their beans from someone local."
  created: '2007-09-09 07:31:57'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Mind you, I like Turkish coffee, so finding a small mudslide in the bottom
    of my cup isn\u2019t an issue.</em>\r\n\r\nIndeed, just as with Greek coffee,
    it's a requirement. The variety with cardomom is also a refreshing change of pace..."
  created: '2007-09-09 19:27:48'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I've had a Melita one-serve drip for years, which my sweetie uses -- I gave
    up coffee years ago.\r\n\r\nTea is my non-alco bev of choice: preferably minty."
  created: '2007-09-10 03:58:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Oldnick: <em>Indeed, just as with Greek coffee, it\u2019s a requirement.</em>\r\n\r\nAs
    I understand (from Greek friends), prior to the Turkish invasion of Cyprus in
    the 1970s \r\neven the Greek called this drink 'Turkish coffee'.\r\n\r\nThe addition
    of cardomom is typically Arabic: you can buy Arabic blends with the cardomom already
    added. I've noticed that the Arabic, Bosnian and Romanian varieties tend to be
    a darker roast. I prefer the Turkish and Greek brands, which are a medium roast
    and don't require as much sugar."
  created: '2007-09-10 05:16:26'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>But then, I also use Maxwell House in it...</cite>\r\n\r\nI once worked
    in an office with dozens of people from the deep south, where everyone drinks
    Maxwell House like water. The smell was unbearable\u2014a friend and I had to
    stash our own coffee maker in her cubicle and stay out of the kitchen."
  created: '2007-09-10 05:43:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My grandmother was from Greece and came to this country in about 1916. She
    called it Turkish coffee.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-10 08:23:43'
- author:
    name: gerry_leonidas
    picture: 128150
  body: "This is quite a refreshing topic. \r\n\r\nAt home: a Rancilio Silvia with
    a Gaggia grinder; beans by http://www.hasbean.com (no, really). \r\nAt work: a
    trusty biggish old Krupps that will do the requisite 15 bar; OTC ground Lavazza.
    \r\nIn the garage: a La Pavoni Europiccola, disused after it blew the 1500W toroidal
    transformer that was powering it.\r\nIn my ears: she-of-impeccable-nutrition reminding
    me I'll do my ticker in. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-10 14:09:24'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/krups__4959.jpg]\r\n\r\nAt Dalton Maag
    we use my old Krups, and at home I have another similar to this but at home I
    use a single cup gold filtered thing like a Melita. Continentals use the espresso
    with no milk, I use it like a very large 3-4 cup cappuccino. "
  created: '2007-09-10 16:19:54'
- author:
    name: weinziet
    picture: 110727
  body: I use a French press too, you don't get the bitter taste from the oil buildup.
  created: '2007-09-10 17:10:28'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "I used to love the French Roast (and other beans) I got at a place called
    Freed, Teller, & Freed on Polk St. in SF. I see they are still kicking:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.freedscoffeetea.com/indexjava.html\r\n\r\nThey
    used to have good Kona too, although that seems to have become a bit of an oxymoron
    since the hurricane destroyed the crop some 15 years ago."
  created: '2007-09-10 17:49:37'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: Turkish coffee (Elite)
  created: '2007-09-10 17:57:53'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "I am a devotee of San Francisco's finest, one cup at a time, <a href=\"http://www.philzcoffee.com/index.html\">Philz
    Coffee</a>. It is kind of like drinking crack, really, with a dash of cardamom.\r\n\r\nWhen
    the rare occassion presents itself that I actually make coffee at home, I use
    the ole French Press, with Philz Tantalizing Turkish blend. "
  created: '2007-09-10 22:19:11'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "Braun Coffeemaker\r\n(I have the Aromaster KF420 which they don't make any
    more. It brews great coffee and is an ergonomic marvel.) Get an inexpensive 10
    cup: it's better to brew fresh coffee more often than to drink old muddy coffee.
    As with any coffeemaker, turn it off after it finishes brewing, unless you want
    your coffee cooked and bitter. Reheat leftover cups in a microwave. New Braun
    10 cup model KF510 in white or black, $30 at [[ http://www.amazon.com/Braun-KF510-WH-AromaDeluxe-10-Cup-Coffeemaker/dp/B00006JL0A|Amazon
    (White only)]]with free shipping. ($35-50 elsewhere)\r\n\r\nKrups 203 Coffee Grinder
    (in white or black); about $20\r\nWorks great; other grinders make a mess.\r\n\r\nTry
    Kenya AA (\u201Cexcellent body, heady aroma, very little bitterness\u201D) or
    Ethiopian Yirgacheffe  (\u201Cdistinctive floral bouquet, rich body, a pleasingly
    fragrant aroma, with a smooth mellowness\u201D) if you haven\u2019t already. Best
    coffee prices online are at [[http://www.freshcoffee.net|California Coffee Roasters.]]
    A five pound bag is $30 + shipping."
  created: '2007-09-11 13:44:42'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>I once worked in an office with dozens of people from the deep south,
    where everyone drinks Maxwell House like water. The smell was unbearable\u2014a
    friend and I had to stash our own coffee maker in her cubicle and stay out of
    the kitchen.</cite>\r\n\r\nI worked with someone who actually drank Sanka because
    she liked the taste. Imagine! That's like eating Chicken of the Sea and thinking
    you've just had a tuna steak."
  created: '2007-09-11 16:20:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Chicken of the Sea is WAY better than Sanka! Sanka is toxic waste crystals.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-11 18:30:54'
date: '2007-09-06 21:17:26'
title: COFFEE What Type of Coffee Machine do you have?

---
