---
author:
  name: Wine Label Designer
body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nI always buy type one fonts when I can. Maybe things have changed
  but printers prefered type 1 and maybe still do. I thought open type was a passing
  thing. Is it here to stay? How do printers like it? What type of font format should
  I buy?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Christoph
    picture: 112770
  body: "There's a few good reasons to buy OpenType, but it always depends on what
    you really need and what applications you use. \r\nBut one thing you should know
    is that OpenType CFF fonts contain Type1-outlines, which printers should like
    at least as much as the old stuff!"
  created: '2007-09-07 15:35:46'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: I usually buy OpenType if I can.
  created: '2007-09-07 15:50:41'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: One thing to keep in mind ... eventually support for Type 1 fonts will go
    the way of the dodo bird. I already know of a few foundries who no longer offer
    support for their Type 1 fonts.
  created: '2007-09-07 16:38:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "It's a long story but the end of it is: don't buy Type 1 if you have an option,
    buy Open Type instead. \r\n\r\n[[http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2005/10/phasing_out_typ.html|Here]]
    Thomas Phinney explains that Adobe is phasing out Type 1, and Type 1 doesn't work
    any longer on some Windows programs. There are links to the full story. "
  created: '2007-09-07 16:41:19'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>I usually buy OpenType if I can.</cite>\r\nI do so, too.\r\nHowever,
    sometimes I just don\u2019t have a use for any of the advantages an OpenType version
    would bring; e.g. when licensing a one-weight font to meet a customer request
    and simply get the job done. \r\nConcerning those situations\u2014where I really
    have no need for cross-platform performance or single-file fonts, or where the
    font\u2019s nature doesn\u2019t demand neither 64K glyphs nor Unicode encoding\r\noptions
    for advanced typographic features\u2014what format would you advice to license?\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    on Mac OSX, and I\u2019ve noticed that a lot of its system fonts actually are
    TrueType.\r\nIs that preferable over Type 1? Most often, foundries offer a pricey
    OT along with more economic TrueType and PS Type 1. What confuses me: the former
    typically are advertised as being made \u2018for Windows\u2019 and the latter
    \u2018for Mac\u2019. Does this (still) refer to Mac OS \u22649? Are there any
    drawbacks with TrueType?\r\nThanks, F."
  created: '2007-09-07 19:39:20'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "OS X will \u2018eat\u2019 any fontformat\u2026\r\n\r\nA major difference
    between TrueType and Type1 is that TT has (in principle) better hinting than T1.
    TT is a format that combines font-outlines, screenfont and font-data. T1 has separate
    files for fontoutline (aka printerfront) and screenfont. Some programs depend
    on an extra file (FontMetrics) for the correct use of T1.\r\n\r\nNote that there
    are (at least) two flavours of OpenType. The typeoutlines may be based upon PostScript
    (T1) or TrueType (TT). OpenType is a new kind of container for all of the data
    needed to put a font on paper, film or a screen.\r\n\r\nApple\u2018s dfont format
    is a superset of TrueType with an extended characterset. \r\n\r\n(Please correct
    me if I\u2019ve made mistakes here\u2026)\r\n___\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2007-09-07 22:16:18'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Is it still true that the extra math involved in rendering Truetype fonts
    at high resolutions causes major slowdowns in RIPs, or do newer RIPs handle Truetype
    at the same pace they handle Postscript fonts? Some printers I hear from, even
    really high-end shops, don\u2019t want anything to do with Truetype fonts, and
    I still see production checklists from design firms that have \u201CMake sure
    not Truetype fonts were used\u201D as a step in preparing jobs for press."
  created: '2007-09-07 22:27:00'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>Some printers I hear from, even really high-end shops, don\u2019t want
    anything to do with Truetype fonts, and I still see production checklists from
    design firms that have \u201CMake sure not Truetype fonts were used\u201D as a
    step in preparing jobs for press.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think this is a myth that has
    almost outlived it's usefulness. However, if you look at a lot of the \"free font\"
    websites and \"10,000 font\" CDs floating around, Windows TT is a dominant format.
    One reason for this is that low-end, junk font creation tools can often only output
    this format. Note that it's not the format itself that's flawed, it's the tools
    and those that work with them. Often, these greymarket fonts have substantial
    technical flaws, and if they are abandonware, there is no vendor to get them fixed.
    So, a prepress person may not dislike TT for the right reason, but they may still
    be getting the right results. \r\n\r\nSimilarly Adobe, in my option, produces
    some of the highest quality fonts available. They favor Postscript-flavored OpenType,
    which means that there are a lot of wonderful, technically superb OpenType fonts
    floating around. To ship these fonts, one either needs to use Adobe's Font Development
    tools or FontLab, both of which are actively maintained and of high quality.\r\n\r\nA
    few vendors, such as Microsoft, do ship high quality, heavily tested Windows TrueType
    fonts. In those cases, I think there is no reason to fear them. The new Vista
    fonts starting with \"c\", Calibri, Cambria, Candara, etc. are all beautiful fonts
    created by top designers. \r\n\r\nYou might want to read up a bit on OpenType,
    because as Berkson said, it's a long story."
  created: '2007-09-07 22:46:38'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Thank you for this insight!\r\n\r\n\uFFFC<cite>Is it still true that the
    extra math involved in rendering Truetype fonts at high resolutions causes major
    slowdowns in RIPs, or do newer RIPs handle Truetype at the same pace they handle
    Postscript fonts?</cite>\r\n\r\nI guess I\u2019m too young for having heard of
    such annoyances. Printers get PDFs with fonts included, no matter whether those
    are TT, OT or whatever. Never had any complaints. Lucky me. :\xB0)"
  created: '2007-09-07 22:55:58'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>However, sometimes I just don\u2019t have a use for any of the advantages
    an OpenType version would bring;[...]</em>\r\n\r\nWell, if that is the case I
    buy a 'std' OpenType version, if available. Usually those have both LF and OSF
    figures in it, which us always positive. And sometimes a couple of alternates
    or something like that, which can be useful. And of course the ease of use in
    InDesign and such."
  created: '2007-09-07 23:43:41'
- author:
    name: Wine Label Designer
  body: 'Open type works cross platform correct? Is there more than one type of Open
    type? '
  created: '2007-09-08 00:57:38'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Open type works cross platform correct?</em>\r\n\r\nPlease see my response
    to <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/36864\">your other query</a>.\r\n\r\n<em>Is
    there more than one type of Open type?</em>\r\n\r\nNope. Just one -- OpenType.
    The same OpenType file will work on a Mac <em>and</em> on a PC. It's a beautiful
    thing."
  created: '2007-09-08 01:28:40'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "postscript : type :: casettes : music\r\n\r\n(sorry just a bit frustrated
    at the moment)"
  created: '2007-09-08 01:35:24'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Open type works cross platform correct? Is there more than one type of
    Open type?</em>\r\n\r\nyes, it's a cross-platform format, which comes in two [[flavor|flavors]]."
  created: '2007-09-08 01:35:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '[[http://www.typography.com/ask/recentTopic.php?rtID=86|Here is a nice primer.]] '
  created: '2007-09-08 01:55:43'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "Thanks for posting that link. This is really Wiki-type information, but H&FG
    have a solid take on it. \r\n\r\nI like statements like: <cite>OpenType is the
    best choice for graphic designers working in modern applications.</cite>\r\n\r\nAs
    mentioned, Quark did not support Unicode and advanced OpenType features until
    version 7. There have been a couple rounds of bugfixes too, so Quark support for
    OpenType is firmly established. This is really a time when everyone should be
    looking to OpenType for new font acquisitions. "
  created: '2007-09-08 05:22:57'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>it\u2019s a cross-platform format, which comes in two flavors</em>\r\n\r\n<em>Here
    is a nice primer.</em>\r\n\r\nThanks for posting those links, Paul and William
    -- I was not aware of those differences. My apologies to Patricia for my earlier
    answer -- I stand corrected.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-08 05:50:47'
- author:
    name: Gary Long
    picture: 112662
  body: 'Foundries often charge more, sometimes quite a lot more, for a font in Opentype
    format than the old Type 1 variety. Now I can understand this from the fact that
    you get cross-platform performance and may get enhanced character sets and extended
    language support. I''m balking at upgrading some of my licences to Opentype, however,
    because of the cost: I don''t need cross-platform support or extended language
    support. I really just like it for the extra functionality and efficiency for
    typesetting plain old Canadian English on my Mac. So perhaps foundries should
    consider offering subsets of Opentype fonts that have large international character
    sets, and give a discount to those willing to restrict themselves to one platform.'
  created: '2007-09-08 18:46:10'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>I don\u2019t need cross-platform support or extended language support.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat
    about small caps, old style figures, ligatures and other typographic niceties
    all in the same font? Do you need those?"
  created: '2007-09-09 08:06:15'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Hi there:\r\n\r\nAnd a side point: Don't buy opentype where the designer/foundry
    has not integrated/automated the small caps, old-style figures, quaint ligs, or
    other features. You have to pay more than Type 1 but it will behave just the same
    and do nothing to ease your work flow. From my point of view its way to extract
    your dollars. If you type waffle and ffl does not switch in automatically- you
    need ask for your money back. \r\n\r\nHere is an example:\r\nhttp://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/psyops/aquamarine_superset_ot/\r\n\r\nBut
    don't be confused a list like this:\r\nhttp://www.linotype.com/1313/pmncaecilia-family.html\r\nThis
    font has everything integrated into the font but you have to sort through a messy
    list and pay special attention to the feature key telling you what's inside the
    font.\r\n\r\nMost of the hinted opentype fonts use Truetype outlines so don't
    be against truetype flavored opentype if you see it. But this does not mean that
    all TrueType flavored opentype fonts are hinted either.\r\n\r\nMy opinion: There
    are others too but Adobe and FontShop are excellent opentype programmers :-)\r\n\r\nMike
    Diaz :-)"
  created: '2007-09-09 11:43:40'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>And a side point: Don\u2019t buy opentype where the designer/foundry
    has not integrated/automated the small caps, old-style figures, quaint ligs, or
    other features. You have to pay more than Type 1 but it will behave just the same
    and do nothing to ease your work flow.</em>\r\n\r\nthere seems to be a lot of
    misunderstanding about what OpenType (OT) is. OT is just a more modern type technology.
    In short, it's a more robust, cross-platform font format than the legacy formats.
    Not all OT fonts are \"Pro\" fonts with addeded features and not all OT fonts
    are more expensive than their legacy format counterparts."
  created: '2007-09-09 17:49:51'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Paul> Thank you for your point. I was referring to type 1 fonts that have
    expert sets and then someone might think that these features will be integrated/automated
    into the opentype release of that same font. There are many opentype releases
    that are just as plain jane their type 1 friends- these I see no point to buying
    unless you need to switch back and forth between windoze and mac... EULA permitting
    of course.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-09 22:29:04'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: even if it is only a format conversion, the OTF format is better supported
    by today's OSes and Applications than PS (in my experience). The only reason i
    would see to prefer type 1 over the exact same fotns in OT format is if you are
    using an old OS with old applications that just can't handle OT for some reason
    (but even most older OS+application schemes should work with OT Std fonts if you
    have ATM installed). OT is just a more robust format.
  created: '2007-09-09 22:33:36'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> I thought open type was a passing thing. Is it here to stay? \r\n\r\nIt's
    actually the opposite of what you thought. All other formats are a passing thing.
    OpenType is the future. If you want to buy new type, OT is the best investment.
    Nearly any printer can use OT fonts just fine. The era of PostScript-only RIPs
    has passed.\r\n\r\nRegarding the cost difference between OT and TT/PS: usually
    it is quite small or zero if no new features are added. You do get the benefit
    of cross-platformability, which is a nice bonus in the long term.\r\n\r\nWhen
    there is a larger difference in price, such as in [[FontFont|FontFonts]] it's
    because, as was mentioned, the OpenType version is more than a straight conversion.
    Features were added to help you save time and set better type. FontShop.com now
    let's you see exactly which OT features are included -- see any <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/singles/fontfont/ff_nexus_serif_ot_italic/?acs=1\">Font
    Detail page</a>."
  created: '2007-09-10 02:45:22'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "To further illustrate how OpenType can simplify your life:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/stewf/482118456\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/482118456_ac06537871_3498.jpg]</a>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/stewf/482127951\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/482127951_0555f8005d_3577.jpg]</a>"
  created: '2007-09-10 02:48:41'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: Nice illustration, Stephen!
  created: '2007-09-10 03:29:47'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> OpenType is a new kind of container \r\n\r\n'Old'. The name was TrueType
    Open, and introduced in 1996 (the Arabic version of Windows 95)\r\n\r\nThat said,
    TTF = OpenType = cross-platform\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-10 04:14:26'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "\uFFFC<cite>even if it is only a format conversion, the OTF format is better
    supported by today\u2019s OSes and Applications than PS (in my experience).</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019d
    like to hear more about that experience, if you don\u2019t mind sharing.\r\nIs
    it better supported than <em>TT</em>, too? I consider OS X(.4) and Vista \uFFFC<cite>today\u2019s
    OSes</cite> \u2026"
  created: '2007-09-10 07:39:23'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Hi Paul: \r\n\r\nAre you on the Windows side? If you are using Vista then
    I would agree with the OpenType being better supported. Doesn't Vista Avalon system
    supports OpenType better than OSX- right? Type 1 on Windows has always been kinda
    funky.\r\n\r\nRegarding a font conversion: If your idea of robustness is portability
    and easy file management- then yes. All other areas- no. Not unless there is something
    else I don't know. Type 1 support is not evaporating anytime soon in OS X.\r\n\r\nI
    use Apple Pages (a modern app) which taps into Apple's AAT system that handles
    OpenType. I still cannot access all of the alternates, in lets say, Adobe Poetica
    or FF Meta, by grabbing them from the character palette or configuring the typography
    panel. But if it's characters I can type on my keyboard like ffl or fi for waffle
    or fig, then I can access it that way and it switches. But if its not something
    I can type, like a ding or alt small cap, attempting to pull it from the character
    palette will result in an error message and its a no go:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture19_5599.png]\r\n\r\nThis
    is an OS problem. I hope they fix it in Leopard. I wish it was a panacea but its
    not. When you mean modern applications are you just speaking of Adobe? Adobe uses
    their own rendering system which has the best support of OpenType. The app I use
    depends on OSX.\r\n\r\nIf I have said thing that's incorrect please correct me,\r\n\r\nMike
    Diaz :-)\r\n\r\nPS... Just curious, have any non-Adobe apps for general use (like
    Wordpad) been written to use the Avalon type system? Is there a Windows equivalent
    of the Typography Panel to help?\r\n\r\nPS part deux... Poetica used to cost big
    bucks ($100+) prior to opentype now its only $29. So I agree if there is a well
    done opentype version- buy it and it might be cheaper. But do your homework first.\r\n\r\nPS
    part trois... Coles: I really love the new Complete View feature. Its shows all
    the actually glyphs included in the font. Very unlike the tedious MyFonts or Linotype
    sites that make you browse through blank Unicode pages just so you can see all
    the small caps that you know are there, FontShop is downright breezy!\r\n\r\nPS
    part zillion... I thought Pro means greek and cyrillic support."
  created: '2007-09-10 07:40:57'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>I thought Pro means greek and cyrillic support</cite>\r\n\r\nDepends
    on the foundry \u2013 and the font. Can stand for any form of enhancement, e.g.
    added swash alternates and special ligatures."
  created: '2007-09-10 07:58:22'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "The basic level of OpenType, as defined by [[Adobe]], is called \u201CStd\u201D.
    OT Std fonts are not necessarily a straight conversion of fonts from TrueType
    or PostScript format. They can include some features not included in legacy formats,
    such as built-in small caps, alternate figure styles, swashes, case-sensitive
    punctuation and so on. \r\n\r\nAn OpenType \u201CPro\u201D font is <a href=\"http://www.adobe.com/type/opentype/index.html#lang\">defined
    by Adobe as a font with additional language support</a>. It adds at least an Central
    European character set, but may also include Turkish, Baltic, Greek and Cyrillic.
    [[Linotype]], [[Monotype]], [[FontFont]] and others have adopted this definition
    of \"OpenType Pro\".\r\n\r\nSome smaller foundries, on the other hand, have declined
    this language support definition and instead label any OT font with extra <em>features</em>
    as a \u201CPro\u201D font. This causes some confusion when shopping for OT fonts
    from various sources. It's always best to examine a <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/singles/fontfont/ff_nexus_serif_ot_italic/?acs=1\">detailed
    specimen</a> before making a purchase. Don't rely on the font name alone.\r\n\r\nBelow
    is an illustration of the differences between OpenType Std and Pro fonts, as defined
    by those larger foundries I mentioned.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/stewf/1353564979/\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1353564979_21a696f0af_3602.jpg]</a>"
  created: '2007-09-10 08:43:50'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: Bickham Script <strong>Pro</strong> is an OpenType font by Adobe that has
    no language support for Turkish, Greek or Cyrillic.
  created: '2007-09-10 08:58:39'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Yes, but it does include an CE character set. I guess I should have clarified
    in my graphic that at least one of those extra languages are supported, but not
    necessarily all.
  created: '2007-09-10 09:01:01'
- author:
    name: Christoph
    picture: 112770
  body: "<em>bert_vanderveen: A major difference between TrueType and Type1 is that
    TT has (in principle) better hinting than T1.</em>\r\n\r\nYou have to say: \"TT
    has better hinting <strong>possibilities</strong> than T1\". \r\nIf you don't
    spend a lot of time into hinting TrueType-fonts, they might look much worse than
    T1-fonts hinted in the same time."
  created: '2007-09-10 09:10:01'
- author:
    name: Christoph
    picture: 112770
  body: Unlike Adobe Pro, FontFont Pros at least contain CE, Turkish, Baltic and ISO
    Latin 3.
  created: '2007-09-10 09:17:42'
- author:
    name: bruno_maag
  body: "I think it is still not quite clear that '.ttf' files *are* OpenType. The
    OT font format is based on the TTF file structure. As an earlier poster pointed
    out, TrueType Open, has been around for more than ten years supporting the Arabic
    and Indic markets with features that are now marketed under the name OpenType.
    \r\n\r\nAlso note that you can label any TTF font as .otf and they will function
    fine under OSX and Win 2000 (with ATM support), XP and Vista. Microsoft decided
    to stick with TTF to provide legacy compatibility. A TTF font will also work in
    Win 95 and NT. This is important as many corporates still work with NT. Unicode
    support is maintained in all older versions of Windows, although typo feature
    support will get lost. \r\n\r\nAdobe's CFF fonts (otf) are still based on the
    old PS technology. It is in essence a PS font with a pretty TTF wrapper around
    it. It's also important to understand that whilt in a TTF glyphs are accessed
    directly via Unicode, in a OTF font, glyphs are accessed via Unicode - PS name
    conversion. This is why glyphs can go missing, particularly with typo features
    and languages, if you do not stick religiously to Adobes PS glyph name list. No
    such problem with TTF.\r\n\r\nI once heard that Linotype did some performance
    tests with TTF and PostScript fonts and found that TTF always won the race. TTF
    is good. All TTF *are* OpenType. What gives it the little 'O' icon is the digital
    signature.\r\n\r\nBruno Maag"
  created: '2007-09-10 16:31:07'
- author:
    name: Pattie P
    picture: 113107
  body: "OK now we are getting advanced! My head is swimming!\r\n\r\nSo will OTF work
    Windows XP Professional 2002?"
  created: '2007-09-10 17:13:01'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> So will OTF work Windows XP Professional 2002?\r\n\r\nYes. "
  created: '2007-09-10 18:07:00'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> To further illustrate how OpenType can simplify your life:\r\n\r\nThe first
    image isn't  correct :) "
  created: '2007-09-10 19:28:58'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Explain.
  created: '2007-09-10 19:36:54'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: TT/TTF = OpenType (even without the OT/'O' icon; see the post by Bruno)
  created: '2007-09-10 19:55:53'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: 'By convention, foundries have used TTF for fonts with TrueType outlines and
    OTF for fonts with CFF (PostScript) outlines. It''s unfortunate that this isn''t
    a formal requirement, because the distinction can be useful for troubleshooting.
    While both flavors may be generally supported by current software, differences
    arise for legacy software users. '
  created: '2007-09-10 20:52:28'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: Thanks Bruno, that was very illuminative!
  created: '2007-09-10 21:19:00'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "But isn't there a difference in the resource fork of mac and pc truetype
    that make them not portable like opentype?\r\n\r\n\r\nMikey :-)"
  created: '2007-09-10 22:08:56'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "I'll re-ask these:\r\n\r\nJust curious, have any non-Adobe apps for general
    use (like Wordpad) been written to use the Avalon type system? Is there a Windows
    equivalent of the Typography Panel to help?\r\n\r\nMikey :-)"
  created: '2007-09-10 23:40:49'
- author:
    name: bruno_maag
  body: "If you're talking about resource forks you are still pre OSX. Only the old
    Mac OSs needed resources. On OSX there are a few apps, Quark 6/6.5 and Freehand
    notably that appear to have issues with flat font files as they expect some resources
    to float about. Other than that I am not aware of programs having problems with
    flat fonts.\r\n\r\nUnder the old Mac OS you did need Mac and PC specific fonts
    as you rightly pointed out, Mikey. \r\n\r\nUnfortunately, Apple has decided to
    go it alone again, with the dfont format. This format supports Apple's own AAT
    system, their way of doing OT. But they also support OT, so no-one I know really
    cares about dfonts (they are, of course, not cross platform).\r\n\r\nOT is the
    way forward, and as far as I am concerned it's TTF based. These fonts are reliable,
    perform well and when hinted look good on the screen. Although that also depends
    on OS and the way apps render the type. My other standard mantra is Unicode, Unicode,
    Unicode...\r\n\r\nBruno Maag"
  created: '2007-09-11 11:55:37'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>Just curious, have any non-Adobe apps for general use (like Wordpad)
    been written to use the Avalon type system? Is there a Windows equivalent of the
    Typography Panel to help?</cite>\r\n\r\nAvalon is now referred to as the Windows
    Presentation Foundation. Adobe applications handle their own font rendering--they
    don't use WPF for layout currently and are unlikely to do so in the future. Similarly
    on the Macintosh, Adobe handles text layout themselves, rather than using the
    features provided by the Cocoa programming interface. I'm not sure how the advanced
    OpenType features will be accessed, but it will make it much easier for developers
    to add them. "
  created: '2007-09-11 20:38:26'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>I think it is still not quite clear that \u2019.ttf\u2019 files *are*
    OpenType. [...] All TTF *are* OpenType.</em>\r\n\r\nAlthough there's some underlying
    truth to these statements, they are over-simplistic and generate confusion in
    non-savy users' minds \u2014 in the same way that, on Windows, font files with
    a .ttf extension may either be displayed with a 'TT' icon or a 'O' icon. None
    of this helps the user understand the OpenType format any better, IMO.\r\n\r\nBack
    to the point. Correct is to say that the OpenType format is an extension of the
    (TrueType) <a href=\"http://developer.apple.com/textfonts/Tools/tooldir/TrueEdit/Documentation/TE/TE1sfnt.html\">SFNT
    format</a> (, which means the TrueType format is effectively a subset of the OpenType
    format). The SFNT file format is based on tables. Depending on the font format
    (e.g. TrueType, TrueType GX, OpenType TT, OpenType CFF), <a href=\"http://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?site_id=nrsi&item_id=IWS-AppendixC\">some
    of these tables are required, and some are optional</a>.\r\n\r\nThe Windows system
    switches the icon of a .ttf file (to 'O') if that file contains a '<a href=\"http://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/dsig.htm\">DSIG</a>'
    table, but this table is actually optional in the OpenType format. This means,
    an OpenType will still work properly even if it doesn't contain a DSIG table.
    Conversely, just because a given font file is assigned an 'O' icon (or has a DSIG
    table) doesn't necessarily mean that it contains any OpenType functionality; OT
    functionality is better accessed if the font file contains GPOS and/or GSUB tables,
    for example.\r\n\r\nBy the way, some type foundries even add custom tables to
    their fonts. This won't necessarily break the core functionality or usability
    of the font as the system accessing the font data simply ignores the tables that
    it doesn't understand.\r\n\r\n> <em>It\u2019s also important to understand that
    whilt in a TTF glyphs are accessed directly via Unicode, in a OTF font, glyphs
    are accessed via Unicode - PS name conversion. This is why glyphs can go missing,
    particularly with typo features and languages, if you do not stick religiously
    to Adobes PS glyph name list.</em>\r\n\r\nAgain, there's some underlying truth
    here, but this definitely deserves clarification. What happens is that some systems
    \u2014 namely Mac OS X \u2014 rely on the glyphs' names to get their encodings,
    instead of using the 'cmap' table. This happens to affect only OpenType CFF fonts.\r\n\r\n>
    <em>I once heard that Linotype did some performance tests with TTF and PostScript
    fonts and found that TTF always won the race.</em>\r\n\r\nCan you give any significance
    to this statement by providing examples or some kind of substantive information?
    Thanks."
  created: '2007-09-13 00:19:14'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "<cite> This is an OS problem. I hope they fix it in Leopard. I wish it was
    a panacea but its not</cite>\r\nNo, this is working as expected.  If you export
    that document to a flat Unicode text file, there is no way* to store the alternate
    selections, or stylistic sets, or other such features.  For this reason, OS X
    simply points out that you can't expect any export to be able to handle the alternates
    properly.  OS X has a long way to go on fully supporting OpenType, but this isn't
    an area I can fault them at.   Exporting from InDesign using an alternate character
    you'll have the same problem.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina
    que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por
    Javier Guerrero)</em>\r\n\r\n* Unicode codes include 16 alternate selectors, but
    as to how those are to be interpreted is undefinied afaik in the standard."
  created: '2007-09-13 00:46:36'
- author:
    name: bruno_maag
  body: "Miguel, it was Bruno Steinert who mentioned this once at some Linotype Typo
    Technica, if I am not very much mistaken. They did some tests using different
    high res output devices. I don't think that there is written information but Dan
    Reynolds from LT might be able to shed some light on this.\r\n\r\nI don't think
    my simple statement - TTF are OT - is oversimplistic. What you provided is an
    elaborate explanation, which, of course, is quite correct. But that does not change
    the fact that TTF, whatever their contents, are OT. That Microsoft decided to
    keep naming them TTF simply maintains their strategy to provide as much backward
    compatibility as possible. I am making this statement because I am fighting a
    daily support battle for designers and (pre)press houses to understand that OTF
    (CFF) is not the all and only regarding OT. That Adobe managed to make OTF synonimous
    with OT is a marketing ploy of pure genius!\r\n\r\nAgain, my second statement
    is not necessarily simplistic. And again, you simply elaborate on the workings.
    However, it is as simple as that. CFF is PostScript by another name. It still
    lives in the world of glyph names as opposed to pure Unicode. IMO, that is not
    really great.\r\n\r\nBruno Maag"
  created: '2007-09-13 10:05:25'
date: '2007-09-07 15:03:41'
title: OpenType, TrueType, Type One PostScript

---
