---
author:
  name: Endre Berentzen
  picture: 112121
body: "Several designers have tried in the past, myself being one of them; to create
  a typeface which would aid people with dyslexia (see for instance www.readregular.com
  ). However no one typeface has been able to address the problems. Why? Because Dyslexia
  is a term for a number of different reading disabilities and combinations of these.
  There are thousands.\r\n\r\nMy questions are many: \r\n(knowing too little of the
  possibilities of Open type and what the next step in evolution is)\r\nHow many alternates
  can we have to each character in the alphabet in Open type and what limits it to
  this number? How can we get beyond this? Could a typeface be preference based with
  individual settings for each user or is the best way to go about this creating a
  programme which renders each character in the alphabet based on a set of questions
  for the user? (Programs rendering type without the skilled eye of a type designer
  is a terrible thought but I'm here just trying to find possible ways to combat the
  problem - then after we've found a solution that actually works we can work on the
  aesthetics,-)\r\n\r\nAny ideas you guys?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>How many alternates can we have to each character in the alphabet in
    Open type and what limits it to this number? </em>\r\n\r\nThe format allows tens
    of thousands of glyphs in a font, so there are potentially more than enough for
    every character of the alphabet.\r\n\r\nHowever, the choice of stylistic sets
    occurs as a typesetting choice -- it's not in the document \"reader\" available
    to the end user.\r\nTherefore, a practical system would have a variety of different
    fonts, for different kinds of dyslexia, which the reader could choose from in
    the Preferences menu of, for instance, Safari. So this would work better in a
    dynamic online environment, rather than with PDF documents.\r\n\r\nBut, if end
    users download a text file into a program such as Word, then they can set and
    print it in *their* optimal font.\r\n\r\n<em>Could a typeface be preference based
    with individual settings for each user or is the best way to go about this creating
    a programme which renders each character in the alphabet based on a set of questions
    for the user? </em>\r\n\r\nThe foundry could provide a series of fonts geared
    to different kinds of dyslexia.\r\n\r\nBut doesn't this situation exist already?\r\nAren't
    there a kazillion fonts available, and can't readers simply choose the one that
    works best for them?\r\nWhy do advocates try to start from scratch rather than
    analyzing and exploring the typefaces that already exist?\r\nWhy not do research
    that categorizes different forms of dyslexia, and find the typefaces that works
    best for each?\r\nAnd only then attempt to refine those \"best practice\" solutions."
  created: '2007-09-08 17:14:41'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: It seems to me that technology could probably help here, not so much by creating
    fonts with letters that remain recognizable when altered, but by altering the
    entire display to compensate for the common problems faced by dyslexic readers.
    3D acceleration could dynamically distort the screen in a way that compensates
    for a reading disability. Users could even dynamically alter their distortion
    method on the fly, and save profiles for a methodology that works best for them.
  created: '2007-09-08 20:11:21'
- author:
    name: hayesatlbch
  body: "\r\nGranted some fonts are more difficult to read. Because any visual difficulties
    are in fine detail the size of the font can be more important. Most dyslexics
    really have no visual problems as far as reading print. Most problems are in fact
    word processing problems unrelated to vision.\r\n\r\nI sell See Right Dyslexia
    Glasses that are able to remove all visual distortions that make reading diffficult
    for visual dyslexics. More info at dyslexiaglasses.com.\r\n\r\nWhen doing my research
    I found that the majority of dyslexics will respond that they see a page of print
    in a clear, stable, focused and uniform manner. \r\n\r\nThe idea that there are
    problems that are common to all dyslexics doesn't seem to fit the current data.
    Reading is a complex process that needs to have many different factors all work
    properly. Failure of any factor can result in reading difficulties that can be
    classified as dyslexia. Visual problems are only one factor in dyslexia and affects
    a minority of dyslexics.\r\n\r\nA major problem for dyslexics is trying to determine
    what will help them read better when almost all treatments claim to help all dyslexics.
    I limit my claim so that it is always true. I claim that for the dyslexic that
    can describe a visual problem that makes reading difficult the See Right Dyslexia
    Glasses will remove that problem.\r\n\r\nThe reason some visual dyslexics are
    not identified until the third grade is that is when the print size is reduced.
    \r\nDyslexics who find they do not have problems reading billboards are more likely
    to be visual dyslexics. Dyslexics that have their normal reading problems reading
    billboards are more likely to have language processing problems.\r\n  "
  created: '2007-09-09 05:56:18'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Endre,\r\nI'm just curious: Can you give an example how a letter should be
    designed for two different types of reading disabilities?\r\nI always like to
    believe that legibility/readability affects everybody the same. I find it hard
    to believe, that a special typeface for dyslexics is helpful, when every other
    typeface they see in their environment is designed differently. But I have no
    experience in this field whatsoever. "
  created: '2007-09-09 10:26:43'
- author:
    name: T Bones
    picture: 111040
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.robsfonts.com/fonts.html\">A possible lead</a>\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-09 13:53:40'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "Sorry guys, I'm a bit on- and offline at the moment (problems with my broadband)\r\n\r\nNick:
    There are a kazillion fonts available but I still think you'll be lucky to find
    one that addresses all the issues for a dyslexic individual. \r\n\r\nOne solution
    could be choosing characters from different typefaces for reading purposes but
    this would totally ignore the aesthetics of the copy. Would it not be an advantage
    to make this look like one cut? (Kids are brutal and will bully the ones that
    stand out - with one software which rendered the best font individually (on their
    OLPC) for (all) the kids in the classroom bullying would not be a problem;-) Also
    one could adjust contrast in the type, colour of type and background and all the
    other aspects which are important for the legibility.\r\n\r\nTo take you all back
    a step one needs to look at the dyslexic brain:  In the dyslexic brain there are
    more connections (hence shorter distance for a thought) between the literal and
    lateral side of the brain. The reading difficulties are indeed like Hayes says
    in the word processing. It is whether the brain understands the word as a word
    (literal) or a shape (lateral). Whether the word is understood as a word/shape
    or just individual characters/shapes. The main problem for dyslexics is that they
    use both sides of the brain and while one day the word dog can be read as dog
    (literal) the next it might be god (letter reversal - litteral meets lateral -
    read as a word but confused with the shapes of d and the g which unfortunately
    in that alphabet was the exact same shape only flipped). The third time the dyslexic
    reads the word it is confused as cat (read as dog from the literal side moved
    to the lateral and comes out as dig - dogs dig for bones). The potential to make
    unusual connections is why we find a large number of dyslexics in the creative
    fields 15-20% unlike 10% in the rest of the workforce.\r\n\r\nRalf: The strokewidth
    might vary from one reading disability to the other depending on how much contrast
    between the white and black spaces that reader needs. That comes down to whether
    the brain in question reads the letter by the outside shape or the spaces in between.
    This is just one of many examples - to many;-)\r\n\r\nThe glasses Haynes are talking
    about work for some of the problems related to reading like jumping back and forth
    between words and lines by stopping the flickering of the page. My brother used
    similar technology with a coloured sheet of transparent plastic placed over the
    text he was to read. The colour was determined by a specialist through trial and
    error.\r\n\r\n\"The idea that there are problems that are common to all dyslexics
    doesn\u2019t seem to fit the current data. Reading is a complex process that needs
    to have many different factors all work properly. Failure of any factor can result
    in reading difficulties that can be classified as dyslexia. Visual problems are
    only one factor in dyslexia and affects a minority of dyslexics.\" Absolutely
    right. I never said otherwise. That's why a software which had to be individually
    set up could be one solution. I think James might be on to something. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-09 13:57:55'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "This was me being dyslexic; \"The third time the dyslexic reads the word
    it is confused as CAT (read as dog from the literal side moved to the lateral
    and comes out as DIG - dogs dig for bones)\". Where the h@*l did CAT come from;-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-09 14:01:04'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "Nick: \"Why not do research that categorizes different forms of dyslexia,
    and find the typefaces that works best for each?\"\r\n\r\nThere are simply to
    many combinations possible (dyslexia being a combination of different reading
    disabilities). We are talking almost infinite possibilities here."
  created: '2007-09-09 14:06:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Endre, I'm talking about methodology.\r\n\r\nIt seems to me that it is somewhat
    unscientific of dyslexic-typeface designers to start from scratch designing <em>their</em>
    typeface solution from <em>their</em> theory of what the letter shapes should
    be in order to address <em>their</em> understanding of what constitute the functional
    abnormalities of those with reading difficulties.\r\n\r\nOf course, there is nothing
    wrong with publishing one's own design to address particular design criteria,
    but surely science calls for a more systematic and objective approach.\r\n\r\nI
    don't recall ever seeing a variety of alternates being performance-tested as part
    of such a typeface development.\r\nAnd where are the stats comparing preferences
    and performance between dyslexic-typefaces and normal ones?\r\nGoodwill is no
    substitute for a rigorous design process.\r\n\r\nIt has become axiomatic, if not
    a cliche, that dyslexic typefaces have non-symmetrical b and d, and a single-storey
    a and g.\r\nThat seems odd, as Futura is not known as a legibility face. OK, maybe
    it needs to be run through the Comic Sans filter ;-) \r\n\r\nComparing Lexia with
    Read Regular, both presented as dyslexic faces, there is a huge difference.\r\nRead
    Regular conforms to the theory that dyslexic readers have trouble with serifs,
    so keep it clean.\r\nYet Lexia adds all kinds of gimmicks to maximize differentiation
    of letterforms, a different theoretical requirement.\r\n\r\nIf dyslexic-reading
    theory holds any water (i.e. is any different from the discussions typophiles
    have about typeface Legibility and Readability for normal readers), they can't
    both be correct!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-09 18:27:35'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "Nick, I'm absolutely with you that ones own theory is not sufficient for
    creating a typeface. We need hard facts from scientific studies to even see if
    it is plausible to find a solution. Nevrologists, psychologists, opticians etc
    pluss a huge focus group needs to come onboard for this to have any relevance
    in the big picture. Anything else becomes naive and was the reason why I discarded
    this project for my thesis.\r\n\r\nI'm speaking about a possible future here where
    software and typedesign meets and generates the optimal typeface for the users
    readability (after the proper research has been done - if it ever will) (dyslexia
    harms 10-12% of the worlds population and one typeface will probably never fix
    this problem -  even if everyone read the same language - with similar combinations
    of letters would one typeface probably not be able to solve the question)\r\n\r\nI
    see my topic was way of here. Something like this would probably be better: Do
    you believe technical advances in software and potential automatic font generation
    can solve the problem with reading for people with dyslexia?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-09 18:58:55'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "Nick, I'm absolutely with you that ones own theory is not sufficient for
    creating a typeface. We need hard facts from scientific studies to even see if
    it is plausible to find a solution. Nevrologists, psychologists, opticians etc
    pluss a huge focus group needs to come onboard for this to have any relevance
    in the big picture. Anything else becomes naive and was the reason why I discarded
    this project for my thesis.\r\n\r\nI'm speaking about a possible future here where
    software and typedesign meets and generates the optimal typeface for the users
    readability (after the proper research has been done - if it ever will) (dyslexia
    harms 10-12% of the worlds population and one typeface will probably never fix
    this problem -  even if everyone read the same language - with similar combinations
    of letters would one typeface probably not be able to solve the question)\r\n\r\nI
    see my topic was way of here. Something like this would probably be better: Do
    you believe technical advances in software and potential automatic font generation
    can solve the problem with reading for people with dyslexia?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-09 18:59:06'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "Nick, I'm absolutely with you that ones own theory is not sufficient for
    creating a typeface. We need hard facts from scientific studies to even see if
    it is plausible to find a solution. Nevrologists, psychologists, opticians etc
    pluss a huge focus group needs to come onboard for this to have any relevance
    in the big picture. Anything else becomes naive and was the reason why I discarded
    this project for my thesis.\r\n\r\nI'm speaking about a possible future here where
    software and typedesign meets and generates the optimal typeface for the users
    readability (after the proper research has been done - if it ever will) (dyslexia
    harms 10-12% of the worlds population and one typeface will probably never fix
    this problem -  even if everyone read the same language - with similar combinations
    of letters would one typeface probably not be able to solve the question)\r\n\r\nI
    see my topic was way of here. Something like this would probably be better: Do
    you believe technical advances in software and potential automatic font generation
    can solve the problem with reading for people with dyslexia?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-09 18:59:28'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: Sorry.. the page froze and when it got back I had three copies of my last
    reply. Anyway I can delete them?
  created: '2007-09-09 19:02:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Do you believe technical advances in software and potential automatic
    font generation can solve the problem with reading for people with dyslexia?</em>\r\n\r\nIronically,
    that technology is obsolete -- multiple master.\r\nIt is possible to design a
    metafont (eg multiple master), which users can \"tune\" to their liking by adjusting
    sliders that control various design axes, eg:\r\n-extender length\r\n-x-height\r\n-contrast\r\n-serif
    size\r\n-and even things like p/d/q/b divergence.\r\n\r\nBut is that really much
    different than finding a typeface that already has the combination of these \"settings\"
    that one finds most readable?\r\n\r\nThe practical problem is implementing that
    at the user/reader level, rather than at the expert-typographer level."
  created: '2007-09-09 19:47:10'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "I think you are thinking to lateral here Nick;-) You're not a dyslexic I
    guess;-)lol\r\n\r\nIndeed MM fonts allows you to adjust settings within a typeface.
    But a dyslexic person might need some characters from several families, a serif,
    some from a sans, some uppercase and some lowercase. A combination of fonts and
    families rather than adjusting an existing typeface with possibilities still within
    a specific range.\r\n\r\nI agree that the practical problem is implementing at
    the user/reader level rather than at the expert-typographer level. Do you know
    of any research here or is it non-existing?"
  created: '2007-09-09 20:38:32'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: I meant literal of course! Damn those letters/words;-) lol
  created: '2007-09-09 20:43:56'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "I designed a dyslexic-targeted typeface as my undergraduate thesis, and came
    to the conclusion that it's not too likely that the type and/or design industry,
    as it's currently set up, can solve this problem. To really test it in a scientific
    way, you would need to fully develop maybe a dozen full typefaces that addressed
    various aspects of dyslexia, and then test them on a sampling of thousands. This
    would also need to be done in conjunction with neurologists, psychologists, reading
    experts, etc. Otherwise, I don't know how meaningful the results would be. \r\n\r\nThe
    way I look at it, all the typefaces designed for dyslexia are a good start, and
    have at least started a dialogue about how type designers can be involved in the
    solution. I think the key word there is \"involved\" -- we may be problem solvers,
    but we're not scientists. If there ever is any real typographic solution to this
    problem, which I think there very well could be in the future, it will be the
    result of a team of experts, mostly in the field of psychology, and the type designer(s)
    will play a very partial role.\r\n\r\nAs far as my particular take on addressing
    dyslexia with a typeface: \r\n\r\nMy project addressed the orthography of English,
    rather than just the letter forms. A number of studies have shown that dyslexia
    is a genetic condition, and is fairly constant through most populations of the
    world, but various languages are associated with higher degrees of problems related
    to dyslexia. Spanish and Italian, for instance, have a very regular orthography,
    at least in comparison to say English or French, so dyslexia tends to be less
    of a problem, and children have actually been shown to attain reading skills faster.
    My solution was to take some of the most troublesome letter pairs in English (double
    vowels and consonants, for example) and create contextual alternates in OpenType
    for these pairs. Rather than trying to reinvent the wheel like ITA, these letter
    pairs were just slightly differentiated. Aesthetically, I synthesized features
    of Sassoon, Read Regular, and the wideness of Avenir."
  created: '2007-09-10 18:23:12'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "One more note on this:\r\n\r\nI think it will be a while before there's a
    real typeface developed that actually substantially helps dyslexic readers. If
    someone was a brilliant marketer, however, they could probably make a killing
    in the educational software world, even if they had little or no research to support
    their claim."
  created: '2007-09-10 18:26:25'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "Josh: I agree with what you are saying. It seems our findings at undergrad
    level and thoughts about the future are pretty similar. It's interesting what
    you are stating about different languages. On a personal level I can support this
    claim. My brother and I, both Norwegians, read and write english a lot better
    than Norwegian (even considering my brother has never lived in an english speaking
    country and I only 5 years out of 32).\r\nI'm learning turkish at the moment,
    I'll let you know how that is in comparison later on;-)"
  created: '2007-09-11 01:21:16'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "One idea that struck me while reading this is the possibility of highlighting
    words, perhaps by using a light background color. \r\n\r\nIn current technology
    it could be done by switching words with the left/right keys. \r\nIn the future,
    a camera with the ability to see the point on the screen a reader is looking at
    might do the same."
  created: '2007-09-11 20:18:12'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: Interesting idea Frode Frank! I'm not sure it would solve something or further
    confuse the dyslexic reader though. I would have to see some research done into
    the subject matter first. Interesting idea none the less!
  created: '2007-09-11 21:42:42'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "Interesting link posted by Nick that touches on some research linked to reading:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/36952"
  created: '2007-09-11 23:10:52'
- author:
    name: arthur
  body: "I think there is an opportunity here for a test of dyslexia typefaces and
    the theories behind them using multiple style sheets and a technology like [[http://www.mikeindustries.com/sifr|sIFR]].
    Using the interweb and some good networking you could truly test a very large
    group of people crossing numerous types of dyslexia and dyscalculia, as well as
    societal and geographic boundaries.\r\n\r\nUsing this technology is also a potential
    solution to your original question. But I do agree with Nick that the theories
    behind the current typeface selections seem to be closer to suppositions, and
    not truly tested (at least not very widely).\r\n\r\nCombining the test with an
    online community might be a good \"open source\" approach to the problem, with
    the ability to involve all the various experts that would be needed.\r\n\r\nLet
    me know what you think, I'd love to help."
  created: '2007-09-13 20:15:33'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "Definetly interesting Arthur! I don't know if I'd know where to start getting
    a hold of all the people needed to do such a study. I just know they are not in
    my network at the moment;o) You are speeaking way over my knowledge level but
    seem to know what you are talking about. I'm not a technology wiz which is why
    we'll need somone like you in the team. One things for sure neurology and psychology
    would have to be a part of the focus group/forum participants.\r\n\r\nLet's stay
    in touch. Now I gotta get back to this design;o)"
  created: '2007-09-13 20:38:04'
date: '2007-09-08 14:51:52'
title: Can technical advances open up for a proper dyslexia typeface?

---
