---
author:
  name: Endre Berentzen
  picture: 112121
body: "I am considering doing a masters degree in type design. It should be by coursework.
  (I've heard someone offers a 1 year intensive masters somewhere but can't remember
  where.) \r\nTo my question. What are the best programs and where are they located?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nickel
    picture: 113098
  body: Mmm, I kind of in the same boat as you. Although, still being a student, I
    can't travel and pay for my expenses if I move out of Australia. Sadly the only
    things I can find in Australia that have Typography are just plain vanilla Graphics
    Design degrees and what have you.
  created: '2007-09-09 03:35:25'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: The Typowiki entry for [[Education]] is a good place to start looking.
  created: '2007-09-09 05:33:01'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "Reading is the one year intense MA.\r\nhttp://www.reading.ac.uk/typography/home.html?courses/postgraduate/type.html\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-09 07:11:11'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: Hey Nickel. Are you at RMIT? COMMUNICATION DESIGN? I used to teach post grads
    in typography and publication design there in 2003. Have we met?
  created: '2007-09-09 14:22:30'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "Anyone heard anything about this course?\r\n\r\nhttp://edit.petr.net/kabk/site/0607/studierichtingen/vervolgopleidingen/inhoudstudie/type_media"
  created: '2007-09-09 14:26:34'
- author:
    name: ybaggar
  body: "Team of teachers\r\nThe regular teachers are:\r\n\r\n    * Gerard Unger (professor
    in type-design);\r\n    * Jan Willem Stas (course supervisor, professor in typography);\r\n
    \   * Erik van Blokland (professor in type design);\r\n    * Peter Verheul (professor
    in type design).\r\n\r\n\r\nVisiting teachers, attached to the regular course
    in Graphic Design at the Royal Academy of Art are:\r\n\r\n    * Frank Blokland;\r\n
    \   * Petr van Blokland.\r\n\r\n\r\nVisiting teachers are:\r\n\r\n    * Fran\xE7oise
    Berserik;\r\n    * Peter Bi'lak;\r\n    * Robin Kinross;\r\n    * Paul van der
    Laan;\r\n    * Frans van Mourik;\r\n    * Christoph Noordzij;\r\n    * Just van
    Rossum;\r\n    * Fred Smeijers;\r\n    * Rick Vermeulen.\r\n\r\nWhat else should
    be said?"
  created: '2007-09-09 21:57:19'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: You're right, however I've read in a different thread that it is focussed
    more or less purely on caligraphy. Is that true?
  created: '2007-09-10 00:15:52'
- author:
    name: Marilyn
  body: Hi Endre, I've been thinking of doing a masters too! Also been looking at
    KABK. I agree with Nickel that there's nothing too exciting in type education
    here in Australia. Anyway, would also like to hear about people's opinions on
    KABK as there is only general information available in English.
  created: '2007-09-10 02:46:19'
- author:
    name: Nickel
    picture: 113098
  body: Nah, I didn't do Communication Design. Multimedia is my specialty, I'm just
    a geek who likes to make things look good. *sigh* I guess I'll just have to finish
    my education this year and find a proper job. Perhaps I'll take on learning type
    later when I've the resources to do so.
  created: '2007-09-10 03:45:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Endre: <em>You\u2019re right, however I\u2019ve read in a different thread
    that it is focussed more or less purely on caligraphy. Is that true?</em>\r\n\r\nNo,
    that isn't a correct characterisation of the Hague programme. So of the instructors
    likely utilise Gerrit Noordzij's stroke theory in their approach, but that shouldn't
    be confused with calligraphy. I don't know very much about details of the the
    Hague programme, so can't speak in its favour or against it.\r\n\r\nI can, however,
    pretty unreservedly recommend the programme at Reading in the UK. Among other
    things you should note is that a remarkably high number of Reading graduates get
    jobs in the type business pretty immediately after graduation. Past graduates
    are currently employed at Adobe, Cannibal, Dalton Maag, Hoefler & Frere-Jones,
    House Industries, Linotype, Monotype Imaging, Porchez Typofonderie, etc., and
    we're interviewing a couple of the current students for a job."
  created: '2007-09-10 05:09:59'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Regarding admissions, does the Reading Program tend to favor working designers
    who have already designed some typefaces, or can one get in right out of an undergraduate
    program?
  created: '2007-09-10 05:40:48'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: Nickel good on yah. We need more people in multimedia design that are good
    with type. I'm expecting to see some great stuff in the future;-)
  created: '2007-09-10 07:46:06'
- author:
    name: ultrasparky
    picture: 109750
  body: "<em>does the Reading Program tend to favor working designers who have already
    designed some typefaces, or can one get in right out of an undergraduate program?</em>\r\n\r\nThey
    try to get a good variety of people at Reading, which seems to work out pretty
    well. Of the 14 of us graduating this year, I think only half had ever tried making
    a typeface before. We have a few people just out of undergrad programs, a part-time
    architect, and a lot of graphic designers with with different levels of experience
    looking to shift our careers into type design or just add it to the mix of what
    we do. There's almost a thirty-year age difference between the youngest and the
    oldest, too. "
  created: '2007-09-10 08:25:56'
- author:
    name: gerry_leonidas
    picture: 128150
  body: "It is difficult to paint a typical profile, but we are looking primarily
    for demonstrable experience in document design, over lettering and typeface design:
    how existing typefaces are used, rather than how new ones are made. This reflects
    a strong view that typeface design is inseparable from its contexts, and that
    it is through these that one can best enter the discipline. In practical terms,
    a brief for a typeface is incomplete without some thought going into document
    types and genres, text modes, scales, and usage scenarios. \r\n\r\nWe are also
    looking for evidence of visual skills, good working practices, and the ability
    to sustain a long project with fluid milestones. And the ideal candidate will
    be a thinking designer, interested in reflecting on the process of design as much
    as explaining it. Age and background are no issue, so long as the typographic
    skills and the intellectual curiosity are there. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-10 14:30:55'
- author:
    name: pvanderlaan
    picture: 112305
  body: "The Type & Media course at the KABK in The Hague embraces the philosophy
    of \u2018learning by doing\u2019, and will very much appeal to people who are
    looking for a practical study. A number of tutors (Petr van Blokland, Peter Verheul,
    Erik van Blokland, Frank Blokland) are former students of Gerrit Noordzij and
    his theories about stroke and contrast are utilised in the course.\r\n\r\nThe
    first semester is dedicated to learning the basics of type design and covers a
    wide variety of topics including letter sketching, Python programming, calligraphy,
    design philosophy, letter carving, type history and much more. The second semester
    is dedicated to the graduation project where students are guided individually
    by the tutors.\r\n\r\nThe Type & Media course is short, but very intense - students
    are required to attend the course for at least four days a week during the whole
    year. Next tot that visits to the Typo Berlin conference, Plantin Moretus museum
    in Antwerp, the Ensched\xE9 archive in Haarlem and other typographically interesting
    places are organised yearly.\r\n\r\nFormer students of the course have found jobs
    in the type industry, won international awards, or have published typefaces since.
    For instance - Artur Schmal designed Parry for OurType, Pieter van Rosmalen runs
    his own CakeType foundry, Andy Clymer found a position at Hoefler & Frere-Jones,
    Nikola Djurek designed Amalia (for OurType) and Porta (for Dutch Type Library),
    and Ian Party is a tutor in type design at the ECAL and runs the B&P Typefoundry.
    Laura Meseguer won a TDC award for Rumba, as did Christina Bee for her typeface
    Olga.\r\n\r\nConcerning what type of students are admitted to the course, like
    Gerri already wrote for his course in Reading: it\u2019s difficult to define a
    typical profile. Affinity, passion, sincerity, personality and skill are all important."
  created: '2007-09-10 18:45:52'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: 'PvdL: Can you elaborate on the role of calligraphy in the Type Media program
    at KABK? How much time during the first semester is spent on calligraphic exercises,
    experimentation, etc?'
  created: '2007-09-10 23:03:09'
- author:
    name: Marilyn
  body: 'PvdL: Thanks for elaborating on the KABK course. Like Gerry said about Reading,
    do they wish to see more document design over lettering/typeface design in applications?
    I''ve tried e-mailing the Type Media coordinator a few questions regarding the
    course and application procedures but they haven''t replied, so passing the questions
    on to you! =)'
  created: '2007-09-11 00:27:28'
- author:
    name: pvanderlaan
    picture: 112305
  body: "@FeeltheKern\r\nIt is hard to calculate exactly how much time is spent on
    calligraphic exercises during the first semester. Both Erik van Blokland and Peter
    Verheul cover it in their classes, but this is combined with exercises in drawing
    type on paper, exercises in spacing, contrast and more. These classes are not
    about mastering calligraphy, but about understanding the principles of type design
    by practicing and looking at calligraphy. I recommend looking at Gerrit Noordzij\u2019s
    book \u2018The Stroke\u2019 if you want to know more about this subject. It\u2019s
    widely available online, including [[http://www.amazon.com/Stroke-Theory-Writing-Gerrit-Noordzij/dp/0907259308|Amazon]]
    and [[http://www.typotheque.com/books/the_stroke/|Typotheque]].\r\n\r\nThese two
    classes combined take one day a week, and students can (voluntarily) attend Frank
    Blokland\u2019s calligraphy classes as well. Considering the total amount of classes
    add up to four days a week, I\u2019d say that calligraphy amounts to approx. 1/4
    of the first semester. The second semester has virtually no classes in specific
    subjects.\r\n\r\n@Marilyn\r\nNaturally, it helps when applicants have experience
    in designing type but it does not guarantee anything. And the same applies vice
    versa. Applicants need to show excellent design skills in general (a BA in a design
    discipine is highly recommended) with their portfolio. And next to that they need
    to be able to explain clearly the motivation for applying at Type & Media.\r\n\r\nPortfolios
    and motivations can be sent by e-mail or regular mail to Jan Willem Stas, the
    Type & Media coordinator. Or you can approach me (Paul van der Laan) or Erik van
    Blokland personally when you catch either one of us somewhere.\r\n\r\nVisiting
    the KABK Open Day on 26 January 2008 is highly recommended too."
  created: '2007-09-11 11:56:06'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "Thanks Paul, I've been meaning to pick up a copy of the Noordzij book. I
    had planned on applying for the 08 session, but got too busy with work and whatnot.
    I would still really like to apply for the 09 session, however. In a few brief
    e-mails with Jan Willem Stas, he said sending a portfolio, CV and motivational
    letter by the end of the year would be safe -- since I'm in the U.S., I need time
    for my Visa to clear.\r\n\r\nI would really appreciate it if you could send me
    more information about the Type Media program -- any curriculum, case studies
    of projects, etc. Thanks for your help!"
  created: '2007-09-11 19:29:29'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I'm thinking about doing Type&Media (KABK) as well, but only in about two
    years. Still studying for my BA in Graphic Design.\r\n\r\n@Paul van der Laan:\r\nI
    would like to have more information about that Open Day of the KABK on 26 Jan
    08.\r\nI'm wondering about what time the Open Day starts, and things like that.
    I have searched for it on the KABK-website, but I could not find anything about
    it. I'd appreciate it."
  created: '2007-09-11 21:46:18'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "I'm with Jelmar, considering going down for the open day. I'm travelling
    from Norway though and has never been to Den Haag. By the way is the language
    gonna be a barrier for me to do the degree - everything is taught in english or
    not?\r\n\r\nMaybe we'll meet up as students in 2 years time Jelmar;o) (I was sure
    you were done with your BA since you had a fully operational website and some
    nice fonts on it - good work!)"
  created: '2007-09-11 22:12:42'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: I've looked at both programs in the past, and still want to enroll in one
    down the road, however petty or superficial this might seem the cost difference
    has always been at the forefront of my mind when comparing Reading and KABK.
  created: '2007-09-11 22:35:07'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: Which is the most expensive?
  created: '2007-09-11 22:39:57'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "@Endre:\r\nThat would be nice, a typophile invasion in Den Haag. ;)\r\nAnd
    thanks for the compliment. About my BA, I've already finished a 4 year study in
    graphic design, before I started the one I'm doing now, but that was not for a
    BA (I would have to explain the Dutch educational system, but I think that would
    be boring). The fonts on my site are actually the first ones I ever did, not very
    good, but I learned a lot while making them.\r\n\r\nAnd I think the classes on
    Type&Media are usually given in English."
  created: '2007-09-11 23:17:58'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "Yeah that's the second compliment you have gotten from me. Don't expect any
    more;o) Lol\r\nWould love to hear about the Dutch system some day though. Maybe
    I should apply for a teaching position there some day. It's a very interesting
    country from a typographic/design point of a view (Probably the most interesting
    at the moment and has been so for a while) "
  created: '2007-09-11 23:30:09'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Hehe, fair enough. ;)\r\nI can explain the system a bit sometime, but I don't
    think I should hijack your thread for it. ;) I make it sound all difficult, but
    it isn't, really.\r\nAnd usually theres indeed all kinds of things designy happening
    overhere.\r\nTeaching position sounds good, I've had teachers from several different
    countries in the last two years, currently one from Poland (he incidentally also
    teaches at the KABK, but not a type designer).\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-11 23:56:20'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I've been meaning to ask: is the language of instruction of the KABK program
    English or Dutch?\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-09-12 10:32:04'
- author:
    name: Artur Schmal
    picture: 110750
  body: "The language of instruction is English there.\r\n\r\nArtur"
  created: '2007-09-12 10:40:49'
- author:
    name: pvanderlaan
    picture: 112305
  body: "I hope I can cover all the questions in one go... :)\r\n\r\nTraditionally,
    the KABK Open Day is from 10.00 till 17.00 and I don\u2019t expect that the next
    one will be different. When you\u2019re planning to come, please let us know by
    sending an e-mail.\r\n\r\nTo find more examples of work and projects of (former)
    Type & Media students I\u2019d recommend to Google for 'type media kabk'. We hope
    to include more examples of work and projects on the official KABK website in
    due time, but luckily some of our former students have published their work on
    personal websites.\r\n\r\nThe official language for the Type & Media course is
    English, since the majority of students (90%) are from outside The Netherlands.
    During the last five years we\u2019ve been host to more than 25 different nationalities.
    The KABK website has quite an extensive section with info for international students.
    Although this is aimed mainly at exchange students for the BA courses, most of
    it applies to Type & Media too: http://www.kabk.nl/English/index.xml\r\n\r\nThe
    tuiton fee for last year was 1519,- Euros for EU students. For more info about
    current tuiton fees, and fees for non-EU students I\u2019d recommend to send an
    e-mail to the student administration."
  created: '2007-09-12 11:06:43'
- author:
    name: ultrasparky
    picture: 109750
  body: Reading's fees are higher (and the non-EU fees are even higher than that),
    but I feel like it was a bargain, considering what I got out of this past year.
    In addition to what you can read about the Reading program on the [[http://www.reading.ac.uk/typography/home.html?courses/postgraduate/type.html|university's
    site]], it would be worth having a look at [[http://typefacedesign.org|typefacedesign.org]]
    to have a look at current work and the program's wiki, which links to lots of
    design and writing work by graduates, as well as some more info about the program
    and life in Reading.
  created: '2007-09-12 11:33:51'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: Endre, as a norwegian (I expect you have a similar system to Sweden) I assume
    You get an extended student's loan for the education fee. So money shouldn't be
    an issue. Yet.
  created: '2007-09-12 12:24:49'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Since Norway (and Switzerland) are not part of the EU, what is the tuition
    situation like for students from those countries who study in the UK or The Netherlands?
    I hope they needn't pay the overseas fees\u2026\r\n\r\nI'll be paying the overseas
    fees at Reading, but like UK students (and Swedes, it seems), I can at least borrow
    the necessary amount in US student loans. I noticed last year that it is not possible
    to get US Stafford or PLUS loans for study at KABK, even though some other Dutch
    schools are listed with the US Department of Education. Do American students at
    Type & Media just not take out loans? Or do they rely on higher-interest private
    loans? Not really a deciding factor when deciding where to study, but still interesting\u2026"
  created: '2007-09-12 12:34:27'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Note also that the Swiss seem unwilling to let the English and the Dutch
    have type design education all to themselves!\r\n\r\nThe Zurich College of Art
    and Design (now called the ZHdK) recently created a two-semester postgraduate
    certificate program in typeface design \u2013 http://weiterbildung.zhdk.ch/angebot.php?id=2211\r\n\r\nI
    don't know how far off the ground this is yet. It seems that they want to create
    a two-year MA program. Unlike Reading and KABK, the language of instruction in
    this program is German, but they explicitly state that they will accommodate French-speakers
    as well. I anticipate that this program may rise to become a central European
    juggernaut at some point. Who knows what the future will hold. There was a time
    when Reading and KABK were just the University of Reading and the Royal Academy
    of the Arts in The Hague, i.e., not yet international brand names in the niche
    market of higher education typeface design ;-)"
  created: '2007-09-12 12:41:51'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "<em>I am considering doing a masters degree in type design</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    interested in ending this degree with a portfolio of font designs then?"
  created: '2007-09-12 12:50:05'
- author:
    name: pvanderlaan
    picture: 112305
  body: "\" [...] The Zurich College of Art and Design (now called the ZHdK) recently
    created a two-semester postgraduate certificate program in typeface design \u2013
    http://weiterbildung.zhdk.ch/angebot.php?id=2211 I don\u2019t know how far off
    the ground this is yet. It seems that they want to create a two-year MA program.
    [...] \"\r\n\r\nIf I understand the website correctly, it states that the course
    runs two semesters (which equals to one year I assume), and that classes are every
    two weeks on Friday and Saturday only. Am I correct?"
  created: '2007-09-12 14:59:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Paul, how large a written component is there in the Hague programme? At Reading,
    in addition to their type design projects, MA students also produce a research
    dissertation and a 'reflection on practice' that documents their design process.
  created: '2007-09-12 15:44:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Hey, David, close your italics tag!
  created: '2007-09-12 15:51:12'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Yes, Paul, it seems so. I don't know much about this program in Z\xFCrich
    at all. But they were advertising it with flyers and brochures at TYPO Berlin
    in May, and I met with some regular undergraduate students from Z\xFCrich in Berlin
    who were talking it up. I think that this is intended as just the foundation for
    a future Masters course, i.e., this isn't on the same level as Reading or KABK
    (yet). However, as far as Graphic Design programs go, I've heard that the reputation
    of Z\xFCrich is very high in German-speaking countries. The competition for undergraduate
    spaces is also said to be very fierce. Despite having heard about this potential
    future program, I'm still quite happy to be starting the MA course at Reading
    in three weeks ;-)"
  created: '2007-09-12 16:15:36'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: ">Hey, David, close your italics tag!\r\n\r\nNo need, I closed it for him."
  created: '2007-09-12 16:18:00'
- author:
    name: andyclymer
    picture: 110580
  body: "I had an amazing experience at the KABK and would highly recommend the Type
    & Media program without hesitation.\r\n\r\nOn the topic of tuition costs for non-EU
    students, I don't recall exactly how much I paid but as an American student at
    the KABK I don't belive the tuition was much more (or anything more) than the
    figure Paul van der Laan quoted, which is truly a bargain for what you're getting.
    The total cost of supporting myself for a year of living in The Netherlands including
    tuition, living expenses and a resident permit for being non-EU, came out to far
    less than the tuition alone would have been at an art academy in the states.\r\n\r\nAndy"
  created: '2007-09-12 16:39:29'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: I forgot who asked for images about KABK/TM, but there are [[http://www.flickr.com/photos/letterror/sets/|several
    sets of photos]] of Type & Media on the letterror flickr stream. I haven't checked
    them all out, so I don't know if there is a lot of work images, or not. Just thought
    I'd mention it.
  created: '2007-09-12 19:14:48'
- author:
    name: ybaggar
  body: "There is also this blog that documents S\xE9bastien Sanfilippo's year at
    Type&Media:\r\nhttp://typeandgouda.wordpress.com/"
  created: '2007-09-12 19:20:26'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "Andy, I'm curious, do you now work in the type field, or release type solo?
    And of the people you graduated with, do you know what they've gone on to do in
    the past 2 years?\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nAlso just as a note I was re-reading the Reading
    PDF, and it refers to the winter semester of 2003. Is there a more recent document,
    or is the information generally applicable? "
  created: '2007-09-12 23:52:10'
- author:
    name: ultrasparky
    picture: 109750
  body: Jonathan, which PDF about Reading were you referring to? There's probably
    an updated version of whichever document that is somewhere.
  created: '2007-09-13 00:21:13'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Is there a good halfway point for living in-between London and Reading? Because
    the only way I could ever make it happen would be to live in-between so that my
    better half could work at his firms London office.
  created: '2007-09-13 01:53:18'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "James, along almost the entire route between Reading and London are dormitory
    suburbs* for commuters to London (and in the opposite direction), with a main
    rail line and a motorway both are accessible (don\u2019t expect to enjoy either
    though).\r\n\r\n*not necessarily as glum as that sounds\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-09-13 08:40:00'
- author:
    name: Grrrben
    picture: 112992
  body: "James, about every ten minutes there is a train ride from Reading to London
    which takes about a half hour to get at Paddington station. If you leave from
    a town somewhere in between you will have to catch a slower train and I'm not
    sure how often they go an hour. So... Reading is actually well connected (same
    for some airports).\r\n\r\nExpenses (either tuition fee as living) are quite a
    lot higher in the UK than they are in the Netherlands, but it's worth it.. At
    least it was for me..."
  created: '2007-09-13 11:48:53'
- author:
    name: Nickel
    picture: 113098
  body: "I'm starting to seriously consider doing Type & Media at Kabk now. The course
    sounds very attractive and reading through S\xE9bastien Sanfilippo\u2019s Weblog
    does make the course seem quite interesting. Hmm, I wonder if my parents will
    shell out cash for this.\r\n\r\nThanks Endre for starting this great thread and
    everyone else's input, I guess I should work on my portfolio for the rest of this
    semester to line up more with Typography."
  created: '2007-09-13 14:24:15'
- author:
    name: pvanderlaan
    picture: 112305
  body: "<cite>Paul, how large a written component is there in the Hague programme?
    At Reading, in addition to their type design projects, MA students also produce
    a research dissertation and a \u2019reflection on practice\u2019 that documents
    their design process.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn the first semester students do a project
    where type history is involved and for this project a paper must be written. In
    the second semester \u2013 where students work on their graduation projects \u2013
    they are required to document (and annotate) their design process. This project
    book (together with additional material required for the examinaton) must be presented
    at the graduation show.\r\n\r\nThat being said, I do have the impression that
    the course in Reading puts a higher emphasis on the written part, whereas the
    Type & Media course is more focusssed on the practical part of type design."
  created: '2007-09-13 15:02:34'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: Dan, it's the one linked to at the bottom of the page under the heading "More
    information and programme specifications". It links to a file called MA_TypeDes03.pdf.
  created: '2007-09-13 15:33:31'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "A lot of great information here. Thanks guys, I will definetly apply for
    the 2009 course but first I want to finish building my flat and work a bit more
    on my first proper typeface.\r\n\r\nHaving started this thread I take the freedom
    to invite you all to critique my typeface here http://typophile.com/node/37017
    (I've been designing and teaching for several years but am completely new to the
    field of type design except for a few dodgy display faces so all feedback is welcome
    and valued)"
  created: '2007-09-13 20:03:20'
- author:
    name: ultrasparky
    picture: 109750
  body: There's a newer program specification for Reading at the "[[http://wiki.typefacedesign.org/matd/published/documents+that+describe+the+programme|Documents
    that describe the program]]" on the wiki. The PDF is [[http://www.rdg.ac.uk/progspecs/pdf06/PFTTYPDESM06.pdf|here]],
    and there's a good descriptio of the program form Gerry [[http://wiki.typefacedesign.org/matd/published/GL+short+text|here]].
  created: '2007-09-13 21:53:34'
- author:
    name: andyclymer
    picture: 110580
  body: "jselig:\r\n<cite>do you now work in the type field, or release type solo?
    And of the people you graduated with, do you know what they\u2019ve gone on to
    do in the past 2 years?</cite>\r\n\r\nI was fortunate enough to be finishing my
    work at Type & Media as an opening came available at Hoefler & Frere-Jones and
    I've been here since. Paul noted a followup of a few other t]m alumni <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/36918#comment-226034\">just
    above</a>, many other classmates of mine are designing type on a freelance basis
    or mixing type design with their graphic design work, but not necessarily designing
    type for retail sale.\r\n\r\nAndy"
  created: '2007-09-13 22:38:20'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "Andy you lucky b@#*er!\r\n\r\nHoefler & Frere-Jones would be my number one
    choice to work if I was able to choose. Good work! Which typefaces have you worked
    on there?\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-13 23:02:09'
- author:
    name: andyclymer
    picture: 110580
  body: "Endre, I was searching for this thread and I apologize but I just noticed
    that I hadn't responded!\r\n\r\nH&FJ has the kind of environment where everyone
    has their hands in a little bit of everything, but in the past year or so I spent
    some quality time with a custom font for Wired magazine, strained my eyes on the
    lightest end of the spectrum in our latest release Archer, and I handle a lot
    of technical/production matters (final font mastering, python tool development,
    etc) among other things. I feel very lucky, indeed!\r\n\r\nAndy"
  created: '2008-02-25 20:54:16'
date: '2007-09-09 02:52:49'
node_type: forum
title: Practical master in type design?

---
