---
author:
  name: blank
body: "I\u2019ve previously brought up a need\u2014at least one that I perceive\u2014for
  simple, inexpensive student font licensing. I have been thinking about it again,
  and something that always sticks out is that students who license a font are often
  only going to use the font once. Sometimes this is because the student does not
  even want to use the font and is only doing so at the insistence of a professor.
  Students at some schools may be pushed to use new fonts for every project. Or a
  project may just be a wild one-off that demands a font that is not inexpensive,
  even at student prices, but will not be useful again while the student is in school.
  Whatever the reason, it can be hard for students, especially students on a tight
  budget, to justify buying a discounted but still expensive font that will only be
  used once\u2014especially in design schools where pirate fonts are everywhere.\r\n\r\nWhat
  I propose is very low-cost single use font licenses for students. Under this system,
  a student would be able to license individual fonts\u2014even out of families that
  are not sold individually\u2014at a tiny fraction, say five to ten percent, of the
  regular price, but these fonts will only be used in one student project. The fonts
  on offer would not be limited to display fonts, which are already inexpensive, and
  can often be substituted by a free derivative/knockoff appropriate for student work.
  These would be the same expensive, high-quality text, signage, and information fonts
  that sell for a lot more than students might be able to afford. \r\n\r\nWhile such
  a system is unlikely to make much money for anyone, it would get students used to
  paying for high-quality fonts. I don\u2019t know what that\u2019s worth to designers,
  but it seems like a better option than negotiating discounts on an individual basis,
  not offering a discount, or just expecting students to resort to piracy. "
comments:
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "What's to prevent a student from using it more than the alloted amount? Most
    design students hardly even know where fonts come from, let alone recognize the
    EULA.\r\n\r\n(Granted, a student that is likely to buy a font is also likely to
    be the student to read the EULA, but there is no guarantee.)\r\n\r\nThe only benefit
    I see from this plan is creating brand recognition and good will with the (hopefully)
    future purchaser of typefaces.\r\n\r\nAnd I have never heard of a design instructor
    requiring the use of a specific display font. Aside from scenario, if they were
    to require the use of a standard sans or serif, it is a purchase that should benefit
    the student far beyond the current project, even if they don't know it at the
    time."
  created: '2007-09-09 06:05:04'
- author:
    name: noftus
    picture: 111246
  body: "How would this system be policed?\r\n\r\nHow would the system prevent abuse
    from commercial users buying the tiny fraction priced versions? Fonts cannot be
    crippled. Purchasing and verification systems cost money, which organisations
    do not provide at charity. If implemented, organisations would raise general prices
    to subsidise.\r\n\r\nSoftware is a fundamental backbone, and thus charging is
    highly 'expected'. Typography choices are often the springboard which helps attain
    higher marks. Why encourage discrimination against poor students? Why should only
    rich students deserve higher marks?\r\n\r\nThe benefits are minimal. The few extra
    dollars going into the pockets of corporations does not justify the trouble it
    causes everyone else. \r\n\r\nThe better 'psyche' that a student has after buying
    a font, does not encourage them to buy fonts in the future. It only rubs further
    salt into the wound when they make the choice between spending $499 or obtaining
    illegally.\r\n\r\nIt suddenly sounds like I may or may not be helping answer your
    college essay.[/end cynicism]"
  created: '2007-09-09 06:06:35'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Dan, I have had three design teachers pass out CDs if fonts in class, two
    of whom made it quite clear that those fonts were to be used for the classes.
    And I have witnessed students be given explicit instruction in exactly what font
    should replace a font already being used in a piece.\r\n\r\n<cite>What\u2019s
    to prevent a student from using it more than the alloted amount?</cite>\r\n<cite>How
    would this system be policed?</cite>\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t think that the system
    can be policed, it would have to be an honor system. The idea behind it is that
    students who don\u2019t necessarily want to pirate a font would license the font.
    Those who would abuse the system would likely just pirate the font, in most cases
    doing so would require less time and effort than actually buying the font.\r\n\r\n<cite>Typography
    choices are often the springboard which helps attain higher marks.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes,
    they are. But a professional designer is able to use a font repeatedly to earn
    money, whereas a student may only be in a position to use a font once, and if
    he is not a freelance designer and will not become one in the future, will not
    be making <em>any</em> money from said font. For this reason the real value of
    a font can be much lower to a student than to a professional, but current academic
    font discounts do not, IMHO, reflect this.\r\n\r\n<cite>It suddenly sounds like
    I may or may not be helping answer your college essay.</cite>\r\n\r\nOh please.
    None of my professors would accept writing on such a tedious subject, and I would
    not even consider boring them with it."
  created: '2007-09-09 06:21:50'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@James\r\nAchtung! Why do teachers gotta suck so bad? Wouldn't having a student
    make the decision on which fonts to use be better over the long run? Let them
    fully understand exactly why a certain font is/is not appropriate for a certain
    use by experience. You're supposed to make mistakes in college...\r\n\r\nI can
    understand making an \"All Helvetica All the Time\" rule, but directing the use
    of display fonts? Stupid.\r\n\r\nAnd why a teacher would spec anything expensive
    is beyond me anyways. I would say \"no\" and tell the teacher to go to hell, but
    that's just me.\r\n\r\n<cite>I don\u2019t think that the system can be policed,
    it would have to be an honor system. </cite>\r\n\r\nHow is that different than
    the current method of negotiating with the foundries? Negotiating does two things:
    1) It gets a student a better price and 2)creates that brand loyalty that is essential
    to all small businesses.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-09 06:39:31'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>And why a teacher would spec anything expensive is beyond me anyways.
    I would say \u201Cno\u201D and tell the teacher to go to hell, but that\u2019s
    just me.</cite>\r\n\r\nSome professors can get really full of themselves at times.
    For students who rely on financial aid determined by academic success, arguing
    with such professors is not always an option. And I think that a lot of design
    professors have become so used to academic font piracy that they just assume students
    have no qualms about it.\r\n\r\n<cite>How is that different than the current method
    of negotiating with the foundries?</cite>\r\n\r\nThe difference is that in a single-use
    system the foundries make so little money that negotiating would be a waste of
    time. But if such a system were set in place by a large online font vendor, multiple
    font purchases <em>might</em> pay the cost of the system, especially if larger
    schools submitted lists of eligible students to save the vendor from checking
    faxes of IDs and tuition bills. And if the system actually took off, who knows,
    maybe the money could add up to something for the foundries and designers."
  created: '2007-09-09 06:52:19'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "I'm not convinced massive discounts would work for typefaces, especially
    for students. The very first typeface I purchased, (oh, the thrill!) I have never
    used. Big lesson there\u2014get to know more about the type I am using & what
    is available before splashing cash on what I thought would be useful. \r\n\r\nThe
    university that I teach at has an excellent, albeit smallish collection of typefaces.
    The students have never been introduced properly to the good types in the collection,
    which is hardly their fault. I understand that because these types are default/standard
    that they must seem dull to the students, it was certainly how I thought once.
    But I have made many a recommendation to students about typefaces that are right
    there for them to use, and I always see the \"aha!\" look on their face. \r\n\r\nI
    guess what I am trying to say is that student typographers really need to get
    their \"eye in\" by using what is available, explore the provided typefaces, become
    critically aware of what is good & bad about a typeface before spending hard cash
    on new type. \r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-09-09 10:25:12'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I don't think policing is entirely necessary.  Obviously, for (most) fonts,
    once you have the file, it's an honour system that you're using it as licensed.
    \ I know my university didn't have a font library for us to use, and I could have
    greatly benefited from using different faces from some projects, but ended up
    reverted to something more standard for lack of funds.  I barely had money for
    the main design software after all the rest of my art supplies, and even a twenty
    dollar typeface would have broken my account.\r\n\r\nI remember back when Apple
    first announced the multiuser license (the \"family pack\") and people wondered
    if anyone would ever buy it, and sure enough quite a few people have partly because
    of the \"I'm doing the right thing\" feeling, but also a lot of people don't know
    the difference.  Offering a font very cheaply to students for one-time uses would
    introduce them to the idea of paying for fonts while still allowing them to do
    lots of experimenting with different ones.  What's the right price point?  I don't
    know, but $2-5 would be a pretty good spot.\r\n\r\nYou could do a pretty accurate
    system to verify people are education simply by requiring an e-mail address from
    a school.  It'd still be possible to cheat the system, but let's face it, people
    already do, and if they'll pay 5 bucks to get a font as opposed to downloading
    it for free illicitely, I'd prefer the former.  \r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una
    l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB.
    (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2007-09-09 11:57:52'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "<cite>It\u2019d still be possible to cheat the system, but let\u2019s face
    it, people already do, and if they\u2019ll pay 5 bucks to get a font as opposed
    to downloading it for free illicitely, I\u2019d prefer the former.</cite>\r\n\r\nOut
    of interest, which typefaces do you think would be fairly priced at $5? \r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-09-09 20:45:41'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "The number of typefaces worth $5 for a single-time use in an academic assignment
    that has little to no commercial worth outside of being a portfolio piece to me
    is quite numerous indeed.  99\xA2 for a song on iTunes is a decent price.  But
    if you were only allowed to listen to it once, I doubt many people would pay more
    than a few pennies for it.\r\n\r\nA perpetual license of course would be worth
    more, and a perpetual commercial-use license at the even higher standard prices.
    \ But I think with a low-cost single-use non-commercial-license, students might
    could start getting used to buying fonts, which I think would ultimately be any
    of us's goal.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos
    damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2007-09-09 23:29:54'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "The iTunes option is interesting. Linotype has FontExplorer, which is an
    iTunes clone. Here's the scenario: Distribute a one time use font through FontExplorer,
    that has to be activated IN FontExplorer. After a set period of time, say two
    weeks or one month, the font becomes inactive and cannot be used again without
    paying the full purchase price. Less, of course, the amount you already paid.\r\n\r\nI
    can see this not only benefiting students, but everyone. Like people who are interested
    in a font, but need to have a working copy in order to evaluate it."
  created: '2007-09-10 01:37:05'
- author:
    name: Cassie
    picture: 112932
  body: "As a student, I would absolutely love some option like this. I am currently
    working on a type specimen book (just for my own personal study / exploration,
    I'll be looking for some feedback in a bit!), and there are several fonts that
    I would like to include but cannot afford. Personally, I have respect for fonts
    and EULAs, which is why I would like the opportunity to buy the fonts. But, as
    mentioned above, I not only don't have the budget, but I may not even use these
    fonts again (unless I freelance down the line). Is there currently any sort of
    student licensing available? I know Veer and Stormtype (I think) offer a discount,
    but I haven't seen any other student rates ...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-10 09:20:14'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Schools purchase equipment for students. They should offer at least a base
    set of site-licensed type to work with.\r\n\r\nGranted, that made more sense in
    the day when you spent your hours in the computer lab rather than at the coffee
    shop with your own laptop.\r\n\r\nI like the 'honor system' idea, though. Perhaps
    some foundries would be willing to try that. For $x a year any student enrolled
    in this program and school may use any of the typefaces available from said foundry
    for student work only. Perhaps part of the deal is a one-hour session on the ethics
    and legalities of software licensing. ;o)"
  created: '2007-09-10 14:24:30'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> Why do teachers gotta suck so bad? Wouldn\u2019t having a student make
    the decision on which fonts to use be better over the long run?\r\n\r\nWhile I
    never have specified a single face for a job, I can understand why a professor
    might. Education is a progression, and forcing students to use certain faces early
    in their education will expose them to more type. And making the student use a
    wrong face might help teach the student why such a face is wrong, and that can
    result in major learning.\r\n\r\nThat said, something like this would only be
    a first term philosophy, and in later terms, as the students begin to be more
    comfortable with type, the choice of a proper face would have to be the decision
    of the student.\r\n\r\nIt is a sort of walking before you learn to run thing."
  created: '2007-09-10 15:28:38'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Distribute a one time use font through FontExplorer, that has to be
    activated IN FontExplorer. After a set period of time...the font becomes inactive</cite>\r\n\r\nYikes!
    No font DRM! And given the size of MonoLinoType, and the firm\u2019s portfolio,
    implementing any sort of DRM system would be asking for some kind of antitrust
    smackdown from EU regulators.\r\n\r\n<cite>Is there currently any sort of student
    licensing available?</cite>\r\n\r\nMany type foundries will give students a discount,
    but don\u2019t advertise it, at least not obviously. Contacting the foundry is
    usually the best way to find out."
  created: '2007-09-10 15:28:56'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "<cite>Education is a progression, and forcing students to use certain faces
    early in their education will expose them to more type. And making the student
    use a wrong face might help teach the student why such a face is wrong, and that
    can result in major learning</cite>\r\n\r\nI know this one well.  In my colour
    theory class, we had to choose our ten favourite colours out of thousands upon
    thousands of colour chips.  Then we arranged them to be aesthetically pleasing.
    \ Next step choose our five least favourite, then arrange them to be not so bad,
    then mix the two groups and rearrange again.  Then write our name on the back
    of our favourite and least favourite colour, and identify it as such.  Prof took
    them up, threw out all of the favourites, and handed them back, telling us our
    next project was to be based around it.    I had a putrid Tennessee orange.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2007-09-11 00:10:59'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "James, your idea has potential and variations are already being trialed by
    commercial type foundries.\r\n\r\nRebecca Alaccari, proprietor of Canada Type,
    recently introduced a type of dual licensing scheme wherein fonts can be purchased
    (licensed) for commercial use at full catalog price, and purchased (licensed)
    for personal or non-profit use \"at considerable discount prices\".\r\n\r\nCanada
    Type's personal use license can be viewed here: http://www.myfonts.com/viewlicense?id=598\r\n\r\nIn
    2003 I introduced a dual licensing scheme for selected fonts in the <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/browse/foundry/sentinel/\">Sentinel
    Type catalog</a>. Selected fonts are downloadable (ie: can be licensed) from Myfonts.com
    for personal or non-profit use at zero cost, and the same fonts can be purchased
    (licensed) for commercial use at their full catalog prices. I had students and
    non-profit users in mind, figuring that those types of users shouldn't have to
    pay anything. I know many who download the zero cost license versions are students
    because some have written to me to confirm my definition of non-profit use(s),
    citing student projects, resumes and the like.\r\n\r\nI'm constantly surprised
    at the number of commercial use licenses I sell for Midnight Kernboy, DeLouisville,
    Maus and Ganymede 3D, all of which commercial users can download for free and
    use on paying jobs. Many such users no doubt do so in contravention of the EULA
    they agree to online when obtaining those fonts. That part doesn't bother me.
    \ It's a calculated risk I took when making the commitment to a \"try before you
    buy\" policy four years ago. I expect it to happen.\r\n\r\nWhat impresses me is
    how many honest users there are. When the font in question is a personal interpretation
    of the Latin alphabet that flies in the face of established convention---Midnight
    Kernboy---or a unicase Tuscan that takes serious risks with integration and asks
    the user to flirt with those risks too---DeLouisville---it seems only fair to
    offer such faces at no charge to allow potential customers to assess their merits
    first, in their own time, without obligation, before paying the usual fee for
    commercial use.\r\n\r\nDan, the benefits include more than brand recognition and
    good will with future purchasers. The main point is students and non-profit users
    get to use decent fonts for low fees or zero outlay. It's about trusting those
    users and having faith in people.\r\n\r\nNathan, there is no way of preventing
    commercial users from taking advantage of such a scheme. The revenue distributor
    Myfonts.com and I make from selling commercial licenses for some of my fonts covers
    the cost of making the same faces available for free for those who can't afford
    to pay for them. Abuse of the system does not cost me or Myfonts anything. We're
    only talking about potential revenue not gained. Nothing is lost per se, and enough
    commercial users are honest enough to make the whole thing whorthwhile.\r\n\r\n<em>Why
    encourage discrimination against poor students? Why should only rich students
    deserve higher marks?</em>\r\n\r\nThat doesn't neccessarily follow. Cheap or free
    fonts of decent quality can be had by affluent and impoverished students alike---if
    type makers and vendors extent a little faith. If rich students attain higher
    marks by buying expensive fonts for their work, that is a function of their affluence.\r\n\r\n<em>The
    benefits are minimal. The few extra dollars going into the pockets of corporations
    does not justify the trouble it causes everyone else.</em>\r\n \r\nThe benefits
    are potentially great. So far neither Myfonts or myself have experienced any trouble.\r\n\r\nCassie,
    many of the participating foundries at Myfonts.com offer discounts on commercial
    licenses to students and non-profit users.\r\n\r\n<em>...the real value of a font
    can be much lower to a student than to a professional, but current academic font
    discounts do not, IMHO, reflect this.</em>\r\n\r\nI agree, but determining the
    value of a font to an academic user involves time-consuming negotiation which
    no vendor can afford. It works out cheaper and more efficient for everyone if
    some fonts are offered to academic users at no charge.\r\n\r\nWhy, then, do I
    not offer a dual license arrangement for every font in my catalog? That would
    be commercial suicide, as it would be for other foundries. What I'm suggesting
    is that other foundries should offer <strong>some</strong> fonts in their commercial
    catalog, but not all, either very cheap or at zero cost to whoever wants them,
    to give all potential users an alternative to piracy, with the option to purchase
    a full commercial use license for those fonts if and when their use warrants it.
    Fonts so offered need not be unconventional faces like mine, but could be slow-sellers
    or anything else that looks like the font next door but a little off center. If
    that prevents those particular fonts from being pirated it's worthwhile, and if
    it saves other fonts (not dual-licensed) from the same foundries being pirated,
    even better.\r\n\r\n\r\n<strong>\"It's just amazing how fair people can be\"</strong>
    --- Randy Newman, from his song Simon Smith and the Amazing Dancing Bear.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-09-11 18:56:38'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>would be asking for some kind of antitrust smackdown from EU regulators.</cite>\r\nAh,
    baloney. EU regulators can't even tell the difference between Times and Helvetica,
    meaning that the perception of the fontworld is very narrow. Monotype could make
    the same arguments that Apple makes for their exclusivity. \r\n\r\nBut think about
    it, DRM is only crappy when it either invades your privacy or limits your ability
    to use the end software in a reasonable way. Apple's DRM prevents you from using
    an .mp3 on unauthorized devices, which sucks. But when you purchase a font license,
    the EULA's clearly state that you shouldn't be using the font on another system
    anyway.\r\n\r\nPlus, Apple's new tiered system could work equally well, as long
    as the DRM doesn't get in the way of actually using the font."
  created: '2007-09-12 18:41:03'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>as long as the DRM doesn\u2019t get in the way of actually using the
    font.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut since it is the purpose of every DRM system to limit the
    use, there will always be trouble.\r\nWhat if you have a deadline and your computer
    crashes? You switch to another computer and cannot use the font because of the
    DRM. Nightmare!\r\nThe users who have bought a font will have more problems using
    it and the cracked fonts would be around like always before. So nothing to win."
  created: '2007-09-12 19:25:05'
date: '2007-09-09 04:41:50'
node_type: forum
title: 'A new proposal for student font licensing: single-use font licenses.'

---
