---
author:
  name: Deadbolt
  picture: 113119
body: "Hi everybody, i'm new to this forum; this is my first post.\r\n\r\nI was wondering
  if anyone would be able to give me some advice on the dissertation i'm writing in
  my final year at university. The focus of my dissertation is the role of typography
  in 2nd World War Nazi propaganda (havn't finalised the title yet). This subject
  is something I have always been interested in. \r\n\r\nHere are a few key areas
  that i want to look into:\r\n\r\nCan a typeface have a psychological or subliminal
  effect on the viewer ( for example, the ability of Fraktur to intimidate / persuade
  the public and communicate power, etc) ?\r\n\r\nDid Nazi typography frequently feature
  blackletter typefaces because of its German heritage, or was it perceived to have
  communicative qualities that were appropriate for the Third Reich?\r\n\r\nWere the
  skills of well-known and respected typographers harvested specifically for the creation
  of successful posters? Who were the main players in German typographic design /
  design in general?\r\n\r\nTo what extent did the technology available at the time
  of creation limit or shape the physical typography and as a result the message the
  designers were trying to communicate?\r\n\r\nIs a typeface's ability to communicate
  something specific related directly to the physical letterforms, colour and composition,
  or does it have more to do with the viewer's associations with the typeface, which
  relate to it's previous use? For example, many people who see blackletter typography
  today may instantly draw associations of violence and Nazism - is this due to inherent
  qualities of the typeface, or simply due to the fact that the viewer has seen this
  sort of typography used in a violent context before?\r\n\r\nPhew! Hope that all
  made sense. If anyone could offer some advice as to where would be a good place
  to look to go about answering some of these questions, or any general information
  about design and Nazi Germany, I would be eternally grateful.\r\n\r\nThanks for
  your time, and thanks in advance for any help you might be able to offer!\r\n\r\nJack\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Katharina
    picture: 112995
  body: "This is a very interesting topic, I should love to purchase your thesis when
    it is published.\r\n\r\nI suppose you know that the Nazi government at a certain
    point prohibited Blackletter typefaces claiming they were jewish (\"Judenlettern\")?
    This was when they found out that some of their favourite typefaces were designed
    by jewish typographers.\r\n\r\n\"Can a typeface have a psychological or subliminal
    effect on the viewer ( for example, the ability of Fraktur to intimidate / persuade
    the public and communicate power, etc) ?\"\r\n\r\nThere are so many different
    types of \"Fraktur\", for instance Fette Fraktur is not associated with power
    but with beer and old fashioned restaurants. There has been a long thread about
    the different ways of using Blackletters with very different associations on the
    german http://www.typografie.info/typoforum/ and there is even a german forum
    that deals exclusively with Blackletter. But maybe you do not speak german?"
  created: '2007-09-10 17:34:10'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "\r\nIn case you can read German, this is by far the most exhaustive and accurately
    researched source I know:\r\nhttp://www.peterrueck.ch/pdf/sprache%20der%20schrift.pdf"
  created: '2007-09-10 17:34:16'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "I would ask me this questions first \u2026\r\nDoes an dark, edged typeface
    based on form elements of Fraktur, Textur and Sans-Serif (!)   like one of the
    \"Neu-Gotische Schriften\"* implicates s.th. like totalitarian aggression? Or
    was it just the (logical) further stage of creating time-referenced typefaces
    with blackletter influences? \r\n\r\n*The new blackletter typeface-styles of the
    early 1930s like Tannenberg, Potsdam, National, etc.\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-10 18:03:07'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I don\u2019t think that there\u2019s anything about Blackletter/Fraktur/Textura/etc.
    that is especially powerful or commanding, if there were the non-German leaders
    of Europe would never have ditched it in favor of Roman letters. The Nazis standardized
    on, and later banned, blackletter for the same reason they did everything: it
    was politically expedient to do so because it worked well within their ultra-nationalist
    propaganda machine. But, being anti-idealogical opportunists, they also used other
    typefaces when they felt like it, even before the 1941 ban on blackletter.\r\n\r\nA
    few things: Pick up Chris Burke\u2019s biography of Paul Renner (amazon sells
    it), it contains great information on this subject. Watch the Helvetica film when
    it comes out on DVD, it contains some interesting discussion about the inherent
    commanding power of some typefaces. Hitler\u2019s propaganda/design guru wrote
    a memoir, Albert Speer, any decent library probably has a copy."
  created: '2007-09-10 18:16:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Here are some designs by John Heartfield, a staunch communist in Weimar around
    1930.\r\n\r\nThe first is the 1928 poster which made his reputation.\r\nHe plays
    on the number \"5\", which is the list number of the communist candidate in the
    election ballot, using blackletter in a direct manner.\r\n\r\nThe second is a
    1929 book cover, where he associates nationalism, blackletter, and capitalism.\r\n\r\nThe
    third is a 1930 communist election poster.\r\n\r\nIn later anti-Nazi satirical
    works, he mainly used Futura and Kabel.\r\n\r\nSo it seems that his early use
    of blackletter was an anomaly. The modernists at the Bauhaus, and the soviet constructivists,
    and Heartfield, took the lead in effectively associating communism with the modern
    style of art and design which emerged during the 1920s, so the Nazi adoption of
    blackletter may have been a reactive brand position.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/5_3496.jpg]\r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Tuch_4490.jpg]\r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/4_5564.jpg]"
  created: '2007-09-10 19:28:36'
- author:
    name: Katharina
    picture: 112995
  body: As for the book cover, the name of the independent left-wing author Kurt Tucholksy
    is set in blackletter, too - maybe for typographical reasons.
  created: '2007-09-10 19:52:55'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>I suppose you know that the Nazi government at a certain point prohibited
    Blackletter typefaces claiming they were jewish (\u201CJudenlettern\u201D)? This
    was when they found out that some of their favourite typefaces were designed by
    jewish typographers.</em>\r\n\r\nKatharina, I believe that is just the excuse
    that they gave -- I've read somewhere that the actual reason for prohibiting blackletter
    was more practical, something to do with printing things in typefaces that would
    be legible outside of Germany. I'll have to look it up when I get home; don't
    remember where I read it."
  created: '2007-09-10 21:44:10'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Deadbolt, here are some books to check out:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Blackletter-National-Identity-Peter-Bain/dp/1568981252/ref=sr_1_6/102-9738191-2107322?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1189457097&sr=1-6\"><em>Blackletter:
    Type and National Identity</em></a>\r\n\r\n(There is also the exhibition website:
    http://www.cooper.edu/art/lubalin/bletter.html)\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Swastika-Symbol-Beyond-Redemption/dp/1581150415/ref=sr_1_1/102-9738191-2107322?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1189457261&sr=1-1\"><em>The
    Swastika: Symbol Beyond Redemption?</em></a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Modern-Typography-2nd-Robin-Kinross/dp/0907259189/ref=pd_sim_b_4/102-9738191-2107322?ie=UTF8&qid=1189457097&sr=1-6\"><em>Modern
    typography: an essay in critical history, 2nd edition</em></a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Unjustified-Texts-Perspectives-Robin-Kinross/dp/0907259170/ref=pd_sim_b_1/102-9738191-2107322?ie=UTF8&qid=1189457097&sr=1-6\"><em>Unjustified
    texts: perspectives on typography</em></a>"
  created: '2007-09-10 21:53:05'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I\u2019ve read somewhere that the actual reason for prohibiting blackletter
    was more practical, something to do with printing things in typefaces that would
    be legible outside of Germany.</cite>\r\n\r\nI believe it was because people in
    conquered nations were having trouble reading the new road signs. I think that
    the Burke book has the details."
  created: '2007-09-10 21:58:00'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Also, there are previous threads here on Typophile about this topic:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/28919\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/32720\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/19613\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/18519\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/18227\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/18165\r\n\r\nThere
    are more... these are the first few that I found..."
  created: '2007-09-10 21:58:42'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Thanks, James; I'm sure that's it.  :-)
  created: '2007-09-10 21:59:22'
- author:
    name: Katharina
    picture: 112995
  body: "\"I\u2019ve read somewhere that the actual reason for prohibiting blackletter
    was more practical, something to do with printing things in typefaces that would
    be legible outside of Germany\"\r\n\r\nYes, Ricardo, I read that as well. In the
    occupied territories nobody could read blackletter, and so they decided to switch
    to good old antiqua. They needed the people to read their proclamations. I hope
    this is explained better in the link Tim Ahrens mentioned, I must read it. - Anyway
    the dumb Nazis did not even know the difference between Schwabacher and Fraktur."
  created: '2007-09-10 22:03:53'
- author:
    name: nora g
    picture: 113099
  body: "Katharina is right with the statement of unredability in the occupied territories.
    Ricardo, you have to read: Alfred Kapr \u2013 Fraktur, the history of a typeface.
    It's in german language, but perhaps you have the possibility to get it translated
    ... The Fraktur is no german typeface ... in the development of typefaces you
    can see, that the French and Italian tended to the Antiqua forms and the people
    above this geographical line tended to use the broken types. It depends also on
    the book of books ... the Gutenberg Bible which was available and wide spread
    among the people. They has been used to read this kind of type and went familiar
    with it."
  created: '2007-09-13 15:19:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>unredability in the occupied territories</em>\r\n\r\nThat sounds too
    simple."
  created: '2007-09-13 16:04:22'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>That sounds too simple.</cite>\r\n\r\nNot really. Once the Nazis aggression
    began most of Germany shifted to war production, and having huge numbers of men
    fighting abroad limited production further. To feed the war machine\u2014and the
    soldiers\u2014it was essential to keep conquering people whose resources could
    be appropriated and moved rapidly. Communications problems between the Germans
    and newly conquered nations could have caused the entire German military to break
    down, so ditching Blackletter was essential."
  created: '2007-09-13 16:11:44'
- author:
    name: nora g
    picture: 113099
  body: 'Nick: Yes, thats true that it sounds too simple ... I have to look after
    the original source, perhaps then i can tell more. I think it has been in the
    book of Alfred Kapr. It will take a little time for i have to work now ... '
  created: '2007-09-13 16:13:33'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Katharina is right with the statement of unredability in the occupied
    territories.</em>\r\n\r\nThanks, Nora, but I was not contradicting Katharina --
    she did not mention the unreadability factor in her first comment; she just repeated
    the excuse the Nazis gave for doing away with blackletter (\"claiming they were
    jewish\"). I alluded to the legibility factor, and James made the first mention
    of road signs. Go back and read the comments in order.\r\n\r\n<em>Ricardo, you
    have to read: Alfred Kapr \u2013 Fraktur, the history of a typeface.</em>\r\n\r\nThanks
    for the tip. I only know a few words of German, so I cannot read this book, or
    Tim's link, in the original language -- but I will try to get ahold of translated
    versions!"
  created: '2007-09-13 18:52:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Exactly James.\r\nBut what has logic got to do with it?\r\nAll the tailors
    were in concentration camps and the soldiers' uniforms were falling to pieces.\r\n\r\nBut
    enough of this blackletter/nazi nonsense.\r\nJack, wouldn't an analysis of the
    role of typography in present day recruitment advertising be more relevant?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.armyjobs.mod.uk/Army+Life/home.htm"
  created: '2007-09-13 19:47:41'
- author:
    name: nora g
    picture: 113099
  body: "Ricardo: Sorry, this was no answer to you, and therefore I didn't accuse
    you ... \u2013 I wanted to tell Deadbolt the booktitle, but wrote instead \u2013
    Ricardo.  And I seemed to be a bit confused in my first entry here. The title
    of the book: Fraktur \u2013 Form und Geschichte der gebrochenen Schriften (Fraktur
    \u2013 Form and History of broken typefaces), by Albert Kapr (not Alfred!), ISBN:3874392600,
    Editor: Hermann Schmidt Verlag, Mainz. \r\n\r\nNow I' m too tired too translate
    the really interesting quotes of the book, but here are a few:\r\n\r\n ... It
    has a been a long type-struggle in germany \u2013 for what font is the right \"german
    font\". With Luther and the printing of the Bible by Gutenberg, the Fraktur was
    \"the protestant visible voice\" against the roman catholics and \"their\" roman
    type. ... Italians and French didn't like the gothic forms in type and turned
    to use more Antiqua forms  ... Roman type and broken type has been existing in
    germany near by near until the beginning of the 20 th century, but there has always
    been \"national\" tendencies to prefer one .... 1870: more than 50% of all printed
    matter in Germany is printed in Antiqua ... Antiqua was the \"globalized world-wide
    typeform\" and the open-minded preferred the use of Antiqua. ... in 1933 there
    was edict of the Nazis to use the \"good german type\", to demonstrate the german
    culture and to empower the self-confidence of the nation ...  in 1941 there has
    been a lot of communication problems in the occupied territories because the people
    there insisted in not being able to read these kind of letterform \u2013 but Kapr
    mention another reason for changing their mind and now forced to use the Antiqua
    and to free the lie of the Jewish letterforms: They wanted to demonstrate their
    connection to the occident (western world) particularly in view to England and
    the USA but also the friendly-mights \"Mussolini/Italy and Franco/Spain\".\r\n\r\nHope
    its not too confusing now ... and sorry about my english.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-13 21:29:28'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Thanks for that translation, Nora. This topic comes up often, it\u2019s good
    to have an (apparently) knowledgeable German view on the subject."
  created: '2007-09-13 22:05:16'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Yes, danke, Nora!  :-)  Thanks for taking the trouble to do some on-the-fly
    translating.\r\n\r\nFor my part, I found the book I was looking for: <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Blackletter-National-Identity-Peter-Bain/dp/1568981252/ref=sr_1_1/104-0871536-9538369?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1189735672&sr=1-1\"><em>Blackletter:
    Type and National Identity</em></a>. It has an essay called \"Fraktur and Nationalism,\"
    by Hans Peter Willberg. There is a part where he writes, \r\n\r\n\"The real reason
    for the abolition of fraktur was power politics. In 1941, Hitler's armies were
    victorious on every front. The future world power had to adapt to the 'world type'
    (roman) in order to exercise its power.\"\r\n\r\n\"The result of this action,
    however, contradicted the intention: fraktur is now perceived worldwide as Nazi
    script, even after its interdiction by the Nazis themselves. In France, the Netherlands,
    Belgium, Czechoslovakia, Denmark (...), and Poland -- in short, in every neighboring
    country that had been occupied -- fraktur was viewed as the writing of the occupier.
    Above all, it was the writing of the oppressor for those who had been arrested,
    with or without trial, and deported to concentration camps. This association has
    remained unchanged, even with regard to the most beautiful,  innocent forms of
    blackletter types.\""
  created: '2007-09-14 03:19:05'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Nora, I guess this is Kapr's book:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typografie.de/verlagsverzeichnis/typografie/260-0.html\r\n\r\nLast
    year I saw a presentation, by <a href=\"http://www.tdc.org/events/2006events/2006tdcsalonkarinbertram.html\">Karin
    and Bertram Schmidt-Friderichs</a>, of Hermann Schmidt Verlag books at the Type
    Directors Club, and their books are just beautiful. You want to get your hands
    on them even if you don't know any German!\r\n\r\nI have no doubt Kapr's book
    will someday be available in an English translation, just as his book on <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Johann-Gutenberg-Man-His-Invention/dp/1859281141/ref=sr_1_4/104-0871536-9538369?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1189737185&sr=1-4\">Gutenberg</a>
    is. I am looking forward to it!"
  created: '2007-09-14 03:57:04'
- author:
    name: nora g
    picture: 113099
  body: "Thanks to all for your response. To Schmidt Verlag: Yes, Ricardo, you're
    right. You can feel Karin and Bertrams passion for book-making, typography and
    design in almost all published books of the Schmidt Verlag. In content and form.\r\n\r\nI
    found two pictures referring to blackletter: One is an embroiderie of my grandmother.
    She had to stich it, at the age of seven, at school in 1905. They had to learn
    three letterforms to write: Antiqua, Fraktur and Suetterlin. The other is a german
    banknote of 1923 \u2013 there you can see the use of broken forms, roman, and
    sans-serif type.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bl01_6500.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bl02_5484.jpg]"
  created: '2007-09-14 15:03:22'
- author:
    name: Deadbolt
    picture: 113119
  body: "Thanks to everyone for all your help! Some really interesting points have
    been raised. I've ordered a bunch of books, many of which are the ones recommended
    here, so I should be able to get the ball rolling pretty soon.\r\n\r\n\"But enough
    of this blackletter/nazi nonsense.\r\nJack, wouldn\u2019t an analysis of the role
    of typography in present day recruitment advertising be more relevant?\"\r\n\r\nYes,
    that too would be an interesting study, but my original interest lies in the role
    of typography in Nazi Germany - to discover why specific typefaces were used,
    if for any reason at all, who the typographers were, what they were trying to
    achieve, whether the work was successful, etc. Perhaps it would be worthwhile
    to look into typography in today's recruitment advertising as part of my study
    to see if any parallels can be drawn?"
  created: '2007-09-14 22:31:30'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Perhaps it would be worthwhile to look into typography in today\u2019s
    recruitment advertising as part of my study to see if any parallels can be drawn?</cite>\r\n\r\nDrawing
    parallels between the Nazis and just about anything else is a pretty bad idea.
    First, no matter how you do it people will think that you\u2019re calling someone
    else a Nazi. Second, it\u2019s like shooting fish in a barrel\u2014the Nazis were
    amoral opportunists led by a madman hell-bent on world domination, so there aren\u2019t
    many things that they didn\u2019t try in their time on Earth. \r\n\r\nI think
    what Nick is getting at is that your thesis has been done before. Writing about
    Nazi design is like writing about deconstruction or social responsibility\u2014it\u2019s
    a horse has been poisoned, stabbed, shot, beaten, whipped, kicked, and so on.
    He made a similar point to me this summer when we were discussing my desire to
    do my dissertation about grotesques, including developing a new one. I have since
    moved on to more contemporary, relevant type to study, and it\u2019s a lot cooler."
  created: '2007-09-14 22:53:57'
- author:
    name: Christoph Coen
    picture: 111398
  body: "If you really wish to pursue the subject, you might try to get hold of Franz-Josef
    Heyen's book on <cite>Parole der Woche</cite> (Munich 1983). This was a weekly
    propaganda poster issued by the Nazi party for public display from 1936 to 1943
    when, ironically, it fell victim to the war effort. If I remember correctly, the
    examples in the book show a clear change of paradigm. The early posters take traditional
    German newspapers as their model, with long columns of Fraktur and nothing but
    a bit of red colour for visual relief. The later, wartime ones seem to copy commercial
    advertising in order to attract the attention of passers-by. [[http://www.calvin.edu/academic/cas/gpa/parole.htm|Randall
    Bytwerk's excellent German Propaganda Archive at the Calvin College website]]
    has a few examples of an alternative, miniature version of <cite>Parole der Woche</cite>;
    this only had the size of a playing card but you still get a good impression of
    the general approach. Notice in particular the use of sans serif typefaces, for
    example the slanted version of Futura, which must have been intended to create
    a modern impression at the time.\r\n\r\nIn general, I doubt if there is any such
    thing as a genuinly Nazi typography. The Nazis used all kinds of typography for
    functional purposes, to appeal to their various audiences. For example, take a
    look at this, the title page of the last issue of the weekly newspaper <cite>Das
    Reich</cite>, dated 22 April 1945 [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Das Reich1_4768.JPG]
    (well, the upper half of the title page, anyway). \r\n\r\nIf you ignore the people
    in the photo and just consider the typography, this might be a perfectly sensible,
    serious, liberal or conservative bourgeouis quality newspaper which would not
    have looked amiss amongst the newspapers at any newsstand in Germany in the 1970s
    or 1980s. Yet in a sense, of course, this is \"Nazi typography\" too, because
    the Nazis used it to convey their propaganda (there is a rabid article by Goebbels
    in the rightmost column) to certain audiences which they knew could be impressed
    by that kind of thing. \r\n\r\nSimilarly, if you look at [[http://www.calvin.edu/academic/cas/gpa/ws.htm|another
    part of Mr Bytwerk's site with a different series of posters,]] what is Nazi about
    their visual design? For a particularly nasty but instructive example, scroll
    down to where it says \"This quotation from Hitler's 30 January 1939 speech promises
    the destruction of the Jews\", then click on the thumbnail. If you subtract the
    swastika, the by-line, and perhaps the oak leaves, this might be a quotation from
    the Bible, or from some great thinker. In fact, however, it is Hitler's declaration
    that the result of any world war would be the annihilation of the Jews in Europe.
    The only thing about it that seems genuinly Nazi is that a certain form is borrowed
    from elsewhere to vest Hitler's words with some sort of quasi-religious authority
    -- which, of course, chimes in with Hitler's term \"prophesy\", which he used
    to describe his statement.\r\n\r\nI think the same applies to the Nazis' appropriation
    of blackletter. Sure enough, in the 1920s and 1930s blackletter was to some extent
    tied to German nationalism. But more simply, it also conveyed ideas of down-to-earth,
    homely ordinariness -- the typeface of the prayer book, the income-tax form, the
    beer mat and the local newspaper. I suspect it was precisely this type of connotation
    which made John Heartfield use blackletter in the 1928 Communist poster -- to
    suggest that the Communists were not some alien, elitist element, but practical
    people the working class could trust. (The Tucholsky book, on the other hand,
    is a sarcastic swipe at German nationalism, which explains the cover design.)
    To a limited extent, this appeal of blackletter persists to this day -- even in
    Germany, it is still OK to use blackletter for beer labels and pub signs, although
    people usually get tripped up over their long and short s these days.\r\n\r\nIn
    fact, I also suspect that it was precisely this type of connotation which made
    Hitler drop blackletter in 1941 when he thought that the German people were destined
    for higher things. (The decision to do so was pretty much taken by Hitler on his
    own, and it was one which created a great deal of consternation amongst his followers.)
    After all, the architectural model he preferred was not Gothic or Baroque but
    some sort of blown-up classicism - which, in fact, fits rather well with typography
    like that of <cite>Das Reich</cite>.\r\n\r\nChristoph Coen"
  created: '2007-09-14 23:01:14'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Nora, thanks for sharing those wonderful pictures!
  created: '2007-09-14 23:25:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Futura too was used in Nazi Germany, and not just by communists!\r\nAn all-cap
    setting of Futura Light, with its proportions from Ancient Rome, goes very well
    with the neoclassical style that was also favored by the Nazis, along with their
    use of v\xF6lkish.\r\n\r\nIn German consumer magazines of the 1920s, Antiqua and
    Blackletter were often mixed -- especially as Blackletter has no italic and bold
    variants. So the editorial designer would set the body text in blackletter (the
    most traditional and therefore the most legible no doubt, the same reason 100%
    of newspapers still use serifed body text today), and captions, sidebars and bylines
    in Antiqua, with the heads lettered in whatever. Not much ideology there. \r\n\r\nI
    don't think the split typographic personality, referenced in the famous blackletter
    flip-flop, is particularly Nazi. Consider Koch's Antiqua and Kabel typefaces.
    They have a lot in common structurally, yet the first is expressionist, and the
    second modernist. And in as much as expressionism is a 20th century phenomenon,
    they were both modern. \r\n\r\nAs Nora says, there was a division in the German
    attitude towards blackletter vs. antiqua, and as this thread has revealed, many
    reasons that one group of people or another may have formed preferences -- so
    choices were complex and based on many contingencies, not necessarily ideological.
    For an image and text as stripped down as this 1932 Hohlwein poster, blackletter
    would have been too fussy. \r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Unddu_4059.jpg]\r\nBut
    not for this 1916 Fritz Erler poster:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/HelftunsBig_6276.jpeg]"
  created: '2007-09-14 23:55:14'
- author:
    name: sayerhs
    picture: 112341
  body: "\u201CI\u2019ve read somewhere that the actual reason for prohibiting blackletter
    was more practical, something to do with printing things in typefaces that would
    be legible outside of Germany\u201D\r\nNot just outside Germany, but even inside..the
    functionality of fraktur was being questioned.\r\nApparently, the pilots in the
    army had too much of a difficulty because all the letterting inside the cockpit
    was fraktur.\r\nIts hard to imagine instructional graphics in fraktur!! eeek!\r\n\r\nshreyas"
  created: '2007-09-15 07:13:49'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Not that Erik Spiekermann has pointed out in an old thread here on typophile
    that he does not believe in this \"legibility in the occupied territories\" theory,
    if I recall correctly. Rather, it has to do with what type foundries and printers
    had left on hand at the time. No new type could be cast by the time of the decree\u2026all
    metal had to go to the production of armaments. Very interesting theory! I recommend
    using google to try and find that thread."
  created: '2007-09-15 08:56:39'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: ">No new type could be cast by the time of the decree\r\n\u2026all metal had
    to go to the production of armaments. Very interesting theory!\r\n\r\nI think
    it is just an interesting theory. Because in January 1941 the german army was
    on the height of its military success and strength. \r\nIf the \"Schriftenerlass\"
    would have been dated later , 1943-44 in the times of what Goebbels had called
    the \"total war\", maybe that could have been an argument.\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2007-09-25 20:15:49'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: ">Apparently, the pilots in the army had too much of a difficulty because
    all the letterting inside the cockpit was fraktur.\r\nIts hard to imagine instructional
    graphics in fraktur!! eeek!\r\n\r\nThats why they lost the air battle over England,
    hehe \u2026\r\n\r\nHmm, the instructional graphics were not set in Walbaum Fraktur,
    they were set in highly modernised Bauhaus-influenced Tannenberg or Element and
    such, or in a Grotesque. Don't forget the people read and identified Fraktur,
    Neu-Gotische Schriften, S\xFCtterlin, Antiqua, Grotesque, Slab-Serif at the same
    time \u2013 WOW, how dumb we are nowadays ;)\r\n\r\nBTW \r\nDin (Din Mittelschrift,
    etc.) was designed in 1937, as far as i remember."
  created: '2007-09-25 20:16:15'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Design on the various DIN faces began in 1917, the first release was in 1919
    and they continued into the 1930s. The preliminary design of Mittelschrift was
    published in 1926, I don\u2019t know when the final version was released. A lot
    of the DIN history is covered in Albert-Jan Pool\u2019s essay <em>The History
    of a Contemporary Typeface</em>, which can be found in <em>Made with FontFont</em>."
  created: '2007-09-25 21:16:56'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: 'Thanks for help, James. :) '
  created: '2007-09-25 21:59:34'
- author:
    name: iCdesign
  body: "hey, have u completed ur dissertation? Id love to read it, even buy it off
    u.\r\nLet me know :)"
  created: '2008-03-21 18:48:00'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "The typography that I most associate with the Nazis is not represented in
    the references above. I have seen it in movies and in photographs from the period
    but it is not blackletter and not Futura. I associate it most with stationery
    from the time and it might have been used in passports and transportation documents.
    I can best describe it as a Nazified version of Art Deco. A heavy stroke shadowed
    by a second lighter stroke. I have never seen this digitalised. Anyone have any
    ideas?\r\n\r\nI have done a google search on 'Nazi stationery' and all it turns
    up is Fraktur or a simple san serif. Couldn't find any examples of what I am thinking
    of. "
  created: '2008-03-23 03:02:20'
date: '2007-09-10 17:22:10'
node_type: forum
title: Advice needed - Nazi typography dissertation research

---
