---
author:
  name: Nick Shinn
  picture: 110193
body: I'm bored today.
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'Dan was right, we need Hrant around. '
  created: '2007-09-13 16:05:34'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Go see the movie.
  created: '2007-09-13 16:27:37'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: I have some work you can do if you are bored Nick. My son needs some help
    with his Manadarin Chinese homework.
  created: '2007-09-13 16:33:57'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: Franklin Gothic.
  created: '2007-09-13 17:04:56'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: ">Go see the movie.\r\n\r\nIs it as good as the book?"
  created: '2007-09-13 17:36:57'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Better than the book - less comprehensive visually but the interviews are
    priceless.\r\n\r\nMight be worth waiting for the DVD because it will have interview
    outtakes - especially Herr Spiekermann."
  created: '2007-09-13 17:59:08'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>I\u2019m bored today.</em>\r\n\r\nSo, you're using the H word as an epithet,
    eh?  ;-)"
  created: '2007-09-13 18:58:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Daphne_6537.jpg]'
  created: '2007-09-13 19:23:53'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Delphian
  created: '2007-09-13 19:39:14'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "Sometimes when I am bored, I go outside. ;)\r\n\r\nBut only sometimes."
  created: '2007-09-13 19:54:10'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Nothing boring here - unless you count the ATypI cheap wine! '
  created: '2007-09-13 20:04:39'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: That's Ringo Starr's wife.
  created: '2007-09-13 20:57:02'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "I found this video of baby ducks leaping from a tree.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TIwK7feiBSA\r\n\r\nIt
    has nothing to do with type... but it is narrated by david attenborough."
  created: '2007-09-14 05:05:21'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Ringo Starr\u2019s wife</em>\r\n\r\n...as in Barbara Bach?"
  created: '2007-09-14 06:34:25'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: '"..baby ducks leaping from a tree..." Tree holes, on the other hand, have
    everything to do with Helvetica counters.'
  created: '2007-09-14 13:57:42'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Daphne is mad at the world because she's overdressed for Coney Island and
    her spike heels keep getting caught in the boardwalk. Besides that, somebody spilled
    mustard on her frock. And her date keeps staring at the chick in the mermaid costume
    with the clamshells painted on her boobs.\r\n\r\nI'm mad at the world because
    Coney Island closed last weekend."
  created: '2007-09-14 14:22:36'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "It did!?\r\n\r\n[EDIT] Oh, you mean Astroland?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/10/nyregion/10coney.html?ref=nyregion"
  created: '2007-09-14 16:21:13'
- author:
    name: weinziet
    picture: 110727
  body: I'm pissed, all the special Helvetica packages from Veer are sold out. I haven't
    seen it yet, which interview is the best?
  created: '2007-09-15 00:12:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Barbara Bach?</em>\r\n\r\nGood eye David. The ad is from 1965, and she
    was a model then.\r\n\r\nI like the way the stripes in the typeface go with the
    stripes in the fabric print and the planks and the girders in the tower.\r\nIt
    was a stripey time.\r\n\r\nI'm not bored any more."
  created: '2007-09-15 00:26:59'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I\u2019m not bored any more.\"\r\nWhew, that was close. I thought I was
    about to start working on an OT version of Delphian with mustardish accents."
  created: '2007-09-15 11:27:18'
- author:
    name: Steve Tiano
  body: "Coney Island\u2019s pretty much closed for the season now, yes? And on top
    of that Astroland and a good chunk is going permanently, right? The way I hear,
    out east a ways, is that only the Ferris Wheel and he Cyclone will survive. As
    Landmarks. Oh, yeah, and the parachute skeleton. The boardwalk has to also, yes?
    Or is whatever developing there will to be going to make the boardwalk off-limits
    somehow? Damn! There goes the old haunts. Once and for all.\r\n\r\nA buddy of
    mine, my now-82-year old dad, and I make a pilgrimage there and to the old neighborhood
    once a year. Usually right after Labor Day. it\u2019s delayed this year, maybe
    a week or two more, because my buddy's ill--but we're going to have to do it soon,
    because I figure the face of it starts to change again any second.\r\n\r\nI'm
    reminded, however\u2014because of where this has come up, on this forum\u2014that
    for years and year and to this day, there\u2019s something about getting to where
    I can finally see certain distinctive types\u2014the ones that spell out \u201CWonder
    Wheel,\u201D \u201CNathan\u2019s,\u201D \u201CCyclone,\u201D \u201CShoot the Geek\u201D
    (not one that was there when I was a kid, but that always sadly cracks me up now).\r\n\r\nThanks
    for reminding me. Got to make some phone calls today and get this year\u2019s
    little expedition scheduled."
  created: '2007-09-15 12:26:25'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Coney Island\u2019s pretty much closed for the season now, yes? And on
    top of that Astroland and a good chunk is going permanently, right?</em>\r\n\r\nSteve,
    I think that some of your questions are answered in the <em>Times</em> article
    I linked to, but then again a lot of it is up in the air right now."
  created: '2007-09-15 15:08:41'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "I hope the Helvetica film comes out on DVD, means I'll get to see it, as
    there's little chance of a theatrical release in Australia.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-09-15 15:57:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I hope the Helvetica film comes out on DVD\r\n\r\nYou can [[http://helveticafilm.com/shop.html|order
    the DVD]] now."
  created: '2007-09-15 16:38:35'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "That image of the girl on the board walk reminds me of Van Gogh's La Mousme.
    Not so much because of the obvious elements, but because of the expression on
    the models face in relation to the time in her life and in her circumstance. A
    time when a girl becomes a women.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.vggallery.com/painting/p_0431.htm\r\n\r\nI
    love that word 'Youthquake'!"
  created: '2007-09-15 19:25:01'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Helvetica is the best typeface ever made. Any questions? No. I was delusional
    before; and now I have seen the light.
  created: '2007-09-15 20:20:34'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: Hey! I went to get some drinks, and now <a href="http://typophile.com/node/37139">she's
    doing it <em>again!?</em></a> She stole my computer and now she's impersonating
    me! Do not listen to her, she's stark raving mad!
  created: '2007-09-15 20:30:50'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: What in the world is happening. I went to help some poor soul with an InDesign
    problem, and I come back and my Typophile account has been hijacked. But for the
    record, I do love Helvetica. Honest.
  created: '2007-09-15 20:32:27'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Thanks for the tip William :^)\r\n\r\nYves, you're right. Cringe-inducing
    Helvetica's curves may be, but nobody can deny the success of its design. I can't
    be the only person with good taste who thinks Helvetica in bold weight looks decent.\r\n\r\nWhatever
    happened to the mega bold weight? \r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-09-15 21:45:22'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>She stole my computer and now she\u2019s impersonating me!</em>\r\n\r\nAre
    you Yves, or Tamye? Speak up, or forever hold your Helvetica!  ;-D\r\n\r\n<em>I
    was delusional before; and now I have seen the light.</em>\r\n\r\nWow, that sounds
    almost Tschichold-like. Will you change your name to <a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/522/maxmiedinger.html\">Max</a>,
    in allegiance to your new-found faith? ;-)"
  created: '2007-09-15 23:56:21'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>I can\u2019t be the only person with good taste who thinks Helvetica
    in bold weight looks decent...</em>\r\n\r\nJames, I don't know about my own taste,
    but I happen to really, really like Helvetica Black.  :-)"
  created: '2007-09-15 23:58:40'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "I like <em>Helvetica</em> as a synonym for <em>being bored</em>.\r\n\r\n\u201CHow
    are you?\u201D\r\n\r\n\u201CHelvetica\u201D\r\n\r\nGreat."
  created: '2007-09-16 00:06:20'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: lol.
  created: '2007-09-16 00:16:49'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "I click every topic that mentions Helvetica just to see <em>what else</em>
    could be said about it. So I clicked this one, just to read that Nick Shinn wanted
    to state that he\u2019s bored. I immediately loved the topic title Nick chose."
  created: '2007-09-16 00:33:39'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Yes, it's very appropriate.
  created: '2007-09-16 00:43:42'
- author:
    name: dsb
    picture: 111042
  body: "Coney Island can still be fun after labor day. The signs are all still there.\r\nThe
    hot dogs too.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DSCN1194_6530.JPG][img:sites/default/files/old-images/DSCN1215_4248.JPG][img:sites/default/files/old-images/DSCN1186_4304.JPG]"
  created: '2007-09-16 01:44:42'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Hell...vetica, this is one wacky thread!  ;-)
  created: '2007-09-16 05:24:49'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I have a little over a week to put together a 20-30 minute presentation.
    Unfortunately I chose something along the lines of good fonts as my subject, and
    was later told that I can\u2019t dwell on esoterica or other such boring stuff.
    So I\u2019m going to pad it out with clips from Helvetica.\r\n\r\nAnd taking photos
    at Coney Island after Labor Day is a great idea. I wish our mayor had built one
    of those, instead of a new ballpark for a sucky team that chargers too much for
    tickets.\r\n\r\nYep, hockey season can\u2019t start soon enough. It\u2019s funny,
    I\u2019ve become a Caps fan, and now I know how Cubs fans feel."
  created: '2007-09-16 05:48:25'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Ricardo you've got good taste, I assure you sir. Helv black has got serious
    heft and thunk-pounding value. Page-shuddering wallop.\r\n\r\nWhat I want is a
    Helvetica with nice fat stroke <em>and</em> tiny counters---a mega-bold variant.
    Imagine it. Mega-bold Helv would compete with Gill Sans mega for movie title logos,
    posters and such.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-09-16 08:31:19'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>What I want is a Helvetica with nice fat stroke</em> and <em>tiny counters\u2014-a
    mega-bold variant.</em>\r\n\r\nSounds like a cool idea. Maybe it's time to do
    some drawings! :-)"
  created: '2007-09-16 17:15:54'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "Are you bored_?? \r\n[[http://www.i-am-bored.com/bored_link.cfm?link_id=17575]]"
  created: '2007-09-17 14:53:09'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "My dog just died. I\u2019m not sure how connect that to type, but maybe I\u2019ll
    just use a lot of black weights for a while."
  created: '2007-09-17 15:19:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I guess if Coney Island is closed, you can be bored but not board walked
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-17 15:20:05'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Chris, my dog has been dead for thirty minutes and you\u2019ve already made
    me laugh."
  created: '2007-09-17 15:29:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I hope you were joking about your dog, James.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-17 19:56:18'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Coney Island in the off-season is fantastic. Don't forget to grab a drink
    at Ruby's. It's great on a foggy fall day. But I think it's a very sad sign of
    the direction NYC is headed that Astroland is closing for good to be replaced
    by condos, a hotel, and a Disnified, Vegasized version of the old Coney. Problem
    with Coney is that tourists don't go there much. Which is of course why we locals
    love it. Where else can you ride the teacups with your kids right next to a junkie
    and her kids? It's the real deal, honky tonk and all. They even had a real freak
    show (not a side show) until recently, which cured me of any interest in freak
    shows.\r\n\r\nBut all that means it has no value for Mayor Dollarsign. \r\n\r\nFirst
    sign of trouble was when they tore down the Thunderbolt coaster (featured in Annie
    Hall) followed by shutting down the flea market - which was really a junk sale.
    And now Astroland. The city no longer has a soul.\r\n\r\nJames, I am so sorry
    about your dog.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mermaid1_5659.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mermaid2_5201.jpg]\r\n\r\nNone
    of those women are me. That's the mermaid parade for those who don't know."
  created: '2007-09-18 00:49:59'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Wacky is good. I like those photos Patty.\r\n\r\nI think this has already
    been done. I've found what looks like Helv megabold on at least one LIFE magazine
    cover from the 1960's.\r\n\r\nI drew face below from scratch in about four hours.
    E and F are too narrow, and the weight distribution is patchy, but you get the
    idea.\r\n\r\n(James P. Crow has nothing to do with James Puckett. Sorry to hear
    about your dog James)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/goatmen_5198.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/liveonmoon_4518.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lunarfashions_3941.png]\r\n\r\n;^)\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-18 19:09:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Miles_3964.jpg]\r\nI listened to this
    the other day (Joe Zawinul wrote the tune), and noticed the Helvetica.\r\n1969.
    Designer: anon.\r\n(Sorry for the crop, my scanner won't take 12x12.)\r\n\r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Stevie_6372.jpg]\r\nContinuing
    with retro Helvetica at the record shelf, this time with a little bit of modding.\r\n1972.
    Design: Graphic Projects Inc., NY.\r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SMB_6374.jpg]\r\nThis
    time with a lot of modding.\r\n1969. Design: Lockart\r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SMB2_5123.jpg]\r\nA
    close up.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Neiler_5965.jpg]\r\nNice
    and tight, and dig that photoshop filter...\r\n1969. AD: Ed Thrasher\r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Wes_5600.jpg]\r\n1966.
    Design: Acy R. Lehman -- resisting the temptation to dress the guys in tights
    and Batmasks."
  created: '2007-09-18 19:55:46'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Miles: Too bad they couldn't get a decent guitar player for that session.\r\n\r\nStevie:
    My favorite one-man band album. The drumming on Keep on Runnin' is delightfully
    quirky. Kind of like this Helvetica topic node.\r\n\r\nJimmy: Most of the time
    he was also playing the bass line with his feet. A freak."
  created: '2007-09-18 20:28:27'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> and dig that photoshop filter\r\n\r\nThat effect was HARD to get in the
    old days. I wonder if it was planned, or an accident. I remember getting something
    like that when I processed negatives in water that was too hot. I can't imagine
    the effort it would take to get the effect deliberately."
  created: '2007-09-18 20:35:13'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lights_3518.jpg]\r\nJoseph Stella, <em>Battle
    of Lights, Coney Island</em>, 1913"
  created: '2007-09-18 20:40:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Too bad they couldn\u2019t get a decent guitar player</em>\r\n\r\nNot
    a Mahavishnu fan?"
  created: '2007-09-19 02:13:56'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "The tongue-in-cheek didn't come through?\r\n; )"
  created: '2007-09-19 02:18:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Apparently not. Some of us are occasionally tongue-in-cheek-challenged, especially
    in the abscence of :-) :-)
  created: '2007-09-19 02:23:42'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: I thought that one was obvious so I neglected to put it in. How could anyone
    think John McLaughlin was a slacker?
  created: '2007-09-19 02:46:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "1. lightning fingers = mere virtuosity\r\n2. doncaster lad no biz playing
    jazz\r\n3. wacky cultist abducted carlos santana, releasing album with much Souvenir
    on cover \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/epeVxxwwRuDEX1vNmAW7EUKZUCDXdjo7_6565.jpg]\r\n\r\nbut
    hey, that's genius"
  created: '2007-09-19 03:55:22'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: lol!
  created: '2007-09-19 04:00:39'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "I was lazy with the tail on the <strong>a</strong>. Fixed that. Now it's
    a moral aye. The spacing wasn't sussed out properly either. Fixed that. No, not
    really, cheated with a bit of negative tracking to make it look toyght.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/helvmegaset_4305.gif]\r\n\r\nDon't
    wanna work on this font no more. No more, no more.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/toyger_4659.gif]\r\n\r\nBoring
    you guys shitless aren't I?\r\n\r\nj a m e s\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-19 15:10:38'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: Wonderful quote.
  created: '2007-09-19 15:52:35'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Wow, James, I didn't think you would take my words so seriously!\r\n\r\n@#!%$^&*!?
    OS9 doesn't let me see your entire image... I'll have to look at it at work tomorrow
    to see the entire sample. But what I <em>can</em> see looks very nice.\r\n\r\nSo,
    I guess that now you have to approach Linotype about adding an extra weight (saw
    the movie Helvetica on Monday...)."
  created: '2007-09-20 06:59:44'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Hey Ricardo. I decided to make this font before reading your suggestion.
    It's more an exercise than a serious font, but I had fun making it. That's why
    I didn't post it in the Critique forums (for those wondering).\r\n\r\nThanks I'm
    glad you like it :^)  Thankyou for saying so.\r\n\r\nGlad you like the quote Dennis.\r\n\r\nFor
    Nick Shinn, Patty Fab, Zara Evans, Yves, sii, James Puckett and everyone other
    typophiler who's around at the moment---have I said or done something to offend
    you all? \r\n\r\nTell me about it.\r\n\r\nIf I'm being subjected to the Silence
    Brigade because you think I haven't got a clue, that's one mother of an assumption,
    and seriously in error. I've known since Nick started this thread it isn't really
    about Helvetica, the title being used as a euphemism for boredom. If my essaying
    Helvetica has bored you that's wasteful. I only posted the comps because Ricardo
    suggested I do some drawings.\r\n\r\nThe question is---can you dig it?\r\n\r\nI
    don't think that's asking a lot.\r\n\r\nOh don't tell me, I hijacked the thread.
    You think so? What happened to typographic collaboration, the slogan Typophile
    doesn't live up to?\r\n\r\nI wonder. I wonder sometimes what motivates you people.
    You appear to be fixated with certain things---and only certain things---at the
    expense of everything else.\r\n\r\nI am happy and have plenty of other places
    to be :^)\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-09-20 11:08:00'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>For Nick Shinn, Patty Fab, Zara Evans, Yves, sii, James Puckett and
    everyone other typophiler who\u2019s around at the moment\u2014-have I said or
    done something to offend you all?</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat are you talking about? "
  created: '2007-09-20 14:22:47'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "The Silence Brigade treatment. I think it's applied to me here and there
    and I'm trying to find out why. I get precocious sometimes and wonder if that's
    the reason.\r\n\r\nIf I'm mistaken about the silence treatment then my reasoning
    is erroneous.\r\n\r\nIf I don't ask about these things how can I ever find out?\r\n\r\nTruth
    is worth more than pride.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-09-20 15:47:50'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "First of all, The Silence Brigade is usually (and rarely) formally invoked.\r\n\r\nSecond
    of all - what makes you think anybody is ignoring you?"
  created: '2007-09-20 15:53:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "James, if you want comments on your font, post in the Critique section.\r\nOtherwise,
    be thankful nobody's slagged it :-)"
  created: '2007-09-20 15:55:41'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Second of all - what makes you think anybody is ignoring you?</em>\r\n\r\nWhen
    I say something and get no responses. Not every post I make, just certain posts.
    Nevermind.\r\n\r\n<em>James, if you want comments on your font, post in the Critique
    section.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's not seriously a font. It was just a bit of fun with
    Helvetica, as I explained a few posts above to Ricardo. I thought you were bored
    and tried to alleviate that with something interesting.\r\n\r\nNevermind.\r\n\r\n<em>Otherwise,
    be thankful nobody\u2019s slagged it</em>\r\n\r\nIf that's your attitude, why
    don't you slag it?\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-09-20 16:05:10'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "James, this is a wacky thread that meanders (wonderfully) with no real direction.
    I admire the way Nick started it, \"I'm bored...\" And I like the many directions
    other posters have pulled this thread. I certainly don't perceive any ill will
    toward you (here or anywhere else on this forum). That you're not getting comments
    about your experiment I think is merely a function of the wackiness of this thread.
    As you say, if you'd posted it in the Critique section you would have gotten constructive
    criticism; here the conversation may flow anywhere. \r\n\r\n\r\nCheers, Ken"
  created: '2007-09-20 16:05:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>If that\u2019s your attitude, why don\u2019t you slag it?</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    comment was supposed to be attitude-neutral!\r\nI try to avoid typeface critiques,
    unless asked."
  created: '2007-09-20 16:09:27'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Thanks for the feedback Ken, you've got a positive attitude, more than I
    can say for some typophilers.\r\n\r\nWacky, yes I know. It could go in any direction.\r\n\r\nPatty,
    all I wanted was some feedback. Your book jacket designs are great by the way;
    looking at them makes my toes tingle with delight :^)\r\n\r\nNick, if the response
    to people who post material on the \"wrong\" forum(s) is derision and slagging,
    that's just rude. People will always do it, either consciously or by mistake,
    and the only fair way of responding is with a bit of courtesy. Sending good vibes
    your way.\r\n\r\nThanyou for your attention, Typophilers.\r\n\r\nI am a lot like
    you are.\r\nI am a lot like you are now.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-09-20 16:16:57'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>That comment was supposed to be attitude-neutral!\r\nI try to avoid typeface
    critiques, unless asked.</em>\r\n\r\nSorry, I didn't realize that.\r\n\r\nj a
    m e s"
  created: '2007-09-20 16:18:59'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Tingling toes! \r\n\r\nJames, I'm not much of a font-critiquer. I also don't
    often use Ultra Bold fonts. I think your 'g' needs some work, it pulls strangely
    to the  lower right, and the 'a' is also a little awkward, but otherwise I think
    - especially given how quickly you did it - that you've done a nice job. Nick
    is right tho, if you wanted constructive crit on the font, the Critique forum
    is the way to go. It wasn't clear you were expecting comments on your font, it
    just seemed like a bit of fun.\r\n\r\nI like this thread too - I tend to come
    here when I'm bored too. Be thankful sometimes when you don't get responses, there
    are some sharp tongues on this forum (including, sometimes, mine)."
  created: '2007-09-20 16:25:47'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Hi Patty. It's good to clear the air. I guess what I was looking for wasn't
    constructive critique, but maybe a chuckle or a smirk in response to the humour
    of the phoney book covers I posted. But it's no big deal. All water under the
    bridge.\r\n\r\nTingling toes---you are a very, very talented artist. Seriously
    good taste.\r\n\r\n<em>Be thankful sometimes when you don\u2019t get responses,
    there are some sharp tongues on this forum (including, sometimes, mine).</em>\r\n\r\nUnderstood
    :^) My tounge gets pointy too on occasion. Typophiles are passionate people.\r\n\r\nCompletely
    changing the subject: in the advertising biz I have to do a lot of research. The
    other day I did a Google image search for \"sassy\", and this pic came up. Love
    that k-S ligature.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SassyGoatMilkSoap_4931.jpg]\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-09-20 17:18:18'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Oh, and thanks for the feedback Patty.\r\n\r\nTo take the edge off the seriousness
    of typophile politics, all in good fun, I mean this in a good way:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/manners_can_be_fun_4547.jpg]\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-09-20 17:30:41'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Did you really think we were ignoring you because no one replied to this
    thread in a while? :)\r\n\r\nI didn't really got it that you wanted crits on your
    Helvetica-experiment. I doubt it that people are purposely ignored here. Eventhough
    my thread on the crit board is also way too silent. I would like to have more
    crits as well. But people probably just think they don't have anything useful
    to add. Or I just tell that myself, lol. ;)"
  created: '2007-09-20 17:45:21'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>But people probably just think they don\u2019t have anything useful to
    add.</em>\r\n\r\nI feel like that plenty of times, Quincunx. Good point.  :-)"
  created: '2007-09-20 18:53:43'
date: '2007-09-13 15:57:28'
node_type: forum
title: Helvetica

---
