---
author:
  name: Paul Cutler
  picture: 110643
body: "They suck. They are life sucking soul sucking pieces of garbage.\r\n\r\nI am
  sick of them. They kill humanity.\r\n\r\npbc"
comments:
- author:
    name: jchgf
  body: 'You can give me your computers if you want. I''ll take them. '
  created: '2007-09-16 12:15:40'
- author:
    name: magnus_rakeng
    picture: 109817
  body: I like computers. I find them very useful.
  created: '2007-09-16 12:36:14'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: Hi Paul, which computers do you hate (read want to get rid of). Hears rubbing
    of hands and evil laugh.
  created: '2007-09-16 14:34:39'
- author:
    name: Andy Martin
    picture: 111412
  body: Come now Paul, how can you say that, without them you'd never have known me
    and I know that must be a distressing thought LOL.
  created: '2007-09-16 15:03:27'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Photoshop Rocks. But you can only play it on a computer. And Google is about
    the greatest invention of my time. Now you no longer have to wonder why something
    is, or who did what. You can know in seconds.\r\n\r\nBut if computers didn't exist,
    I bet we'd all get out more. Of course that would lead to more driving, depleting
    our natural resources, <em>and</em> contributing to more poorly researched films
    by Al Gore."
  created: '2007-09-16 15:27:02'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "Computers are the most loyal, devoted pieces of machinery ever invented.
    They only do exactly what they are instructed to do. The programmers that gave
    crappy instructions are where to place the blame. AT&T just took over Bellsouth,
    the company that provides my service. Somehow, without letting anyone know, they
    switched email servers. That wasted a few dozen hours of my time troubleshooting
    what was wrong with my machine before I found out, thanks to the internet, that
    it wasn't my machine. It was them. The hilarious part is that after a few weeks
    of asking them what they did that caused the problem, they sent back a response
    with very basic instructions for how to send an email \u2014 something I have
    been doing quite successfully for a couple of decades before they came along.
    The problem still isn't fixed. But at least I can send an email with an attachment
    again.\r\n\r\nPaul if you really want to give it up though, I think I have some
    rubylith somewhere around here I'll give you a deal on \u2014 xactos, triangles,
    blue leads, and some other dust collectors too."
  created: '2007-09-16 15:58:54'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Computers are good.\r\n\r\nThe Adobe Illustrator team\u2019s last four releases,
    on the other hand..."
  created: '2007-09-16 15:59:27'
- author:
    name: Steve Tiano
  body: "Well, essentially, I really like computers, too\u2014all the Macintoshes
    I\u2019ve had, particularly, as they\u2019ve enabled me to make a whole slew of
    books. <i>But ...</i> at various times I\u2019ve learned to hate and despise software,
    tho' not in a long time.\r\n\r\nI once worked all night on a single-article issue
    of a science journal in order to FedEx it to the publisher for a rush get-out
    issue. Somewhere right around daybreak I did my last Save and PageMaker, bless
    its pointed little head, sent me a Bad Record Index error, would not save, wiped
    the article from my hard drive, and rendered my copies of the article useless
    the same way.\r\n\r\nI was about to put my fist thru the computer\u2019s screen\u2014this
    was in the CRT monitor days until I thought better of it."
  created: '2007-09-16 16:18:34'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: I've had moments like that also, where I just want to take the thing and crush
    it to dust, but then, I've broken pencils and torn and crumpled up pieces of paper
    too. These moments pass. Just take a deep breath & count to ten before giving
    yours away. :-)
  created: '2007-09-16 16:44:56'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: I've felt this way, too, Paul. Russell's got the right idea, though -- go
    take a walk around the block, or better yet, in a park, where you can look at
    some grass and maybe even trees... It works for me, at least.
  created: '2007-09-16 16:59:29'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "Computers are tools.\r\n\r\nI am also a tool, so computers suit me fine."
  created: '2007-09-16 20:27:26'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Paul\r\n\r\nThe computer is only as good as the person operating it..."
  created: '2007-09-16 21:27:08'
- author:
    name: weinziet
    picture: 110727
  body: "Have you ever heard of computer people refer to a problem, not as a software
    problem, but as a \"wetware\" problem, referring to the operator?\r\n\r\nPretty
    funny."
  created: '2007-09-16 23:13:34'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Keith Moon or a drum machine. Which do you prefer?\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-09-16 23:42:19'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>Keith Moon or a drum machine. Which do you prefer?</cite>\r\n\r\nErnesto
    Simpson. \r\n\r\nI might as well say I hate electronic drum sets with a passion.
    I will never play again with anyone using that kind of set up. It's worse than
    playing with someone who only knows how to play rock, imo.\r\n\r\nI don't have
    any experience with drum machines, but I can only imagine."
  created: '2007-09-16 23:57:36'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: I have a drum machine. But I don't know how it works. ;)
  created: '2007-09-16 23:59:35'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "<emHave you ever heard of computer people refer to a problem, not as a software
    problem, but as a \u201Cwetware\u201D problem, referring to the operator?\r\n\r\nPretty
    funny.</em>\r\n\r\nYes it is - and I've never heard the term before - but ah,
    so true. Thank you for sharing. Hard to find new lingo when you are an office
    of one!\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-17 02:10:36'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "\"The computer is only as good as the person operating it...\"\r\n\r\nOh
    that's such nonsense. Companies like Apple trading quality control for bigger
    profits from fast turn arounds has nothing to do with my skill level."
  created: '2007-09-17 06:10:12'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "<em>Keith Moon or a drum machine. Which do you prefer?\r\npbc</em>\r\n\r\nHmm...
    let me think about that one Paul. Keith Moon - a rotting putrid corpse long buried
    beneath the soil, along with it's hopes and dreams - OR - a drum machine.\r\n\r\nI'll
    take the drum machine ;)\r\n\r\nIn any given week I'll go through at least one
    sketch book (100 pages). And on the 'puter in the same week, I'll throw down about
    10-15 pdfs. I'll also pull in about 30-50 scans into my 'work', and about same
    amount (or more) source material from the www. My brain is one long friggin jam
    session of impluse/action/reaction.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-17 07:02:06'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: Haley -- it isn't nonsense. From teletype operators (to me the original computer)
    to mag cards -- and everything there after. What ever the machine - i could probably
    show you the person who mastered it and the one that never will.
  created: '2007-09-17 10:13:20'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "It's usually the software that sucks.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-17 14:31:07'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "Computer is just like a hammer. You should know when and where to hit.\r\n\r\nI
    love my tools."
  created: '2007-09-17 14:39:52'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: "I don't love my tools. I used to work a pc and switched to mac. I find them
    both annoying, but the mac a little less so. I wish I could do without it. With
    it, there is som much i think i can do, but i never find the time to do it.\r\n\r\nOnly
    37 more years untilo I'm retired!!! I can hardly wait. \r\n.........................................................\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bisondesign.no\">Bison Design</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myspace.com/sponnorway\">Sp\xF6n</a>\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-17 15:36:21'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "If I had the patience I would never sit down in front of these things, I\u2019d
    just paint all damned day. But I don\u2019t, and the machines facilitate my wacky
    brain, so I embrace them."
  created: '2007-09-17 15:41:09'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I am primarily speaking of the level of micro-management that computers allow.
    Perfection is the opposite of perfection.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-09-17 17:36:44'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: "Remember Two Things: \r\nComputers are never sorry\r\nand if you only have
    a hammer everything starts to look like a nail!"
  created: '2007-09-17 18:49:54'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: ">Perfection is the opposite of perfection.\r\n\r\nDoes that mean this is
    as good as it gets?"
  created: '2007-09-17 19:04:08'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "> They are life sucking soul sucking pieces of garbage...They kill humanity.\r\n\r\nI'm
    with you. Just last night, as I sat in front of the damn thing updating my web
    site (oooooooh...I have a web site!) for three flippin hours (again) unable to
    stop myself from trudging along, I thought to myself, \"Self, why are you doing
    this? Why aren't you downstairs making something with your hands? That's what
    you like you to do, remember? This is getting you absolutely nowhere.\"\r\n\r\nThey
    suck like tobacco sucks. And now I'm going to go have a smoke.\r\n\r\nWeak, I
    am. Damn it.\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-17 22:10:49'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Frankly, I sick and tired of all this easy access to porn! \r\n\r\nKidding...
    gosh.\r\n\r\nMikey ;op"
  created: '2007-09-17 23:17:59'
- author:
    name: garyw
    picture: 110508
  body: " My computer enables me to make money.  Making money doesn't suck.  I'm good
    wit dat.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-17 23:58:55'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>Computer is just like a hammer. You should know when and where to hit.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf
    the only tool you have is a hammer, everything starts to look like a nail.\r\n\r\nI
    love computers but they are killing my eyes."
  created: '2007-09-18 00:47:40'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "I am suffering from arthritic reactions to all the pointing options I had
    been using. So I went and got Wacom tablet, to see if that helps, and I have found
    if I put the pen between my first and second finger, it puts my thumb in a very
    comfortable position. Once I get used to doing my right clicks with my second
    finger, I think we have a winner.\r\n\r\nI think I can say that I hate slow computers.
    If I am on one that can do things as fast as I want to, I am a very happy camper."
  created: '2007-09-18 01:13:40'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I think I can say that I hate slow computers. If I am on one that can
    do things as fast as I want to, I am a very happy camper.</cite>\r\n\r\nBra-VO!
    It amazes me how much I can get done, and how fast I can do it, on a Macbook Pro.
    Core Duo at a time when RAM prices are amazingly low is an awesome thing, and
    most apps barely use it. But watching Photoshop max out box cores makes me just
    for the day when I have a quad-core laptop and just about everything is multi-threaded."
  created: '2007-09-18 02:29:18'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: "I remember when my parents got their first computer in 1988. It had a 8mb
    harddisk, the first ever windows version, and a button that would change the processor
    speed from 8 to 12 mHz. I usually kept it on 8mHz, because at 12 mHz, it was impossible
    to play Hard Hat Mac, Space Invaders and Hard Hat Mac. And it had a really noisy
    printer.\r\n.........................................................\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bisondesign.no\">Bison
    Design</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myspace.com/sponnorway\">Sp\xF6n</a>\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-18 07:57:01'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "My first computer was an 8 mHz IBM with 640K RAM and a massive 20Mb hard
    drive. I learned how to program on that machine, I wrote some very screwy code
    but - it was the solidest computer I have ever owned - it never crashed - probably
    because the OS was the simplest. It lasted me 8 years.\r\n\r\nTry that today.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-09-18 08:01:59'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"... It lasted me 8 years. Try that today. \"\r\n\r\nI'm sure I can make
    my computer last through the day. It's the keyboard I'm always scared of. "
  created: '2007-09-18 12:39:07'
- author:
    name: sayerhs
    picture: 112341
  body: "im just scared of computers...seem too complex.\r\nBut then I'm curious,
    what prompted this thread??\r\n\r\nshreyas"
  created: '2007-09-18 13:01:16'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> Frankly, I sick and tired of all this easy access to porn! \r\n\r\nThey
    say that too much porn can result in missing verbs."
  created: '2007-09-18 14:01:01'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: My first computer was a MacII CI which was an awesome machine for its time
    and state of the art for something like 2 years, unheard of now. It had 8MB of
    RAM and a hard drive of 100MB. Of course in those days RAM was like $100/MB (after
    the japanese earthquake). I had that baby for 10 years, altho by the end all it
    was good for was email.
  created: '2007-09-18 15:02:44'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Try that today.</cite>\r\n\r\nToday we have a lot more reasons to upgrade.
    There was a time when most upgrades were driven by video games because the machines
    were so slow that performance increases were barely relevant to running anything
    else. Now performance increases can be pretty astounding, and having enough cheap
    RAM to keep all of one\u2019s pertinent applications running in concert makes
    extra CPU cycles a lot more useful."
  created: '2007-09-18 15:19:59'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: I like computers.
  created: '2007-09-18 16:12:26'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: Sometimes I feel like David Copperfield, and sometimes it is like doing hard
    time in prison. "Love, Hate, Everything In-between".
  created: '2007-09-18 16:42:57'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "We have more reason to upgrade because marketing departments have seized
    control of development - opting for whiz bang features instead of things that
    could actually help us, like getting the mess called color management straightened
    out, or font management on OSX for example.\r\n\r\nOr instead of slowing down
    for a few moments and actually making sure software is bug free before it's released,
    instead of always playing catch up, and never quite getting there.\r\n\r\npbc\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-18 17:59:31'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "How is the forgery business these days Gary (\"my computer enables me to
    MAKE money\")?\r\n\r\nMy first machine was an Amiga running Deluxe Paint. I remember
    reproducing pictures like the first Batman poster pixel by pixel (actually individually
    rendering each). I was around 12-14 and had already built a name for myself internationally
    as a Deluxe Paint pro-user (my learning curve was steeper and competition was
    only a few guys Germany and the UK). Aaahhh, the love of running home to your
    computer after school and staying until your mum told you to go to bed, then sneak
    up and play some more with pixels and hues.\r\n\r\nI'm not to sure I hate computers.
    They are a great tool. Email on the other hand is what's killing our industry.
    It's so easy for that marketing exec to send out on his way from the office: I
    need this on my desk tomorrow morning. Leaving you to work through the night.
    If you only had a phone they would actually have to talk to you and you could
    decide to pick up or not if the time was 5 min. to 4 and you had plans for the
    night. These days everyone expects you to read their email even if it's after
    hours. Not to mention all the time spent on reading and writing them. Instead
    of collating information and provide a proper written brief things comes in pieces
    often several times only slightly adjusted each time just enough so you have to
    read it again. AAAaaaarrrrggghhh.\r\nBloody emails and mobile phones. Give me
    back the days prior to speed dial!"
  created: '2007-09-19 03:54:21'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>Give me back the days prior to speed dial!</cite>\r\n\r\nAs a salesman,
    I hate voice-mail. Give me the days when you could get the key someone who made
    the decisions <em>when</em> you were actually trying to fill in your calendar."
  created: '2007-09-19 04:08:17'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>These days everyone expects you to read their email even if it\u2019s
    after hours.</cite>\r\n\r\nI still don\u2019t understand why so many people put
    up with that attitude. I can understand why all my lawyer friends put up with
    it\u2014they get paid hundreds of thousands of dollars a year and everything from
    individual freedom to massive corporations depends on their work. But for a design
    salary (and rates) people should be happy that anyone reads their email at all,
    much less after five PM. Try getting a plumber to do any work after hours for
    what a designer gets paid and one will likely learn what a wrench tastes like."
  created: '2007-09-19 05:33:25'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "I love computers.\r\n\r\nI remember going to a friend's house in (probably)
    1978 and seeing an Apple II for the first time. It was an amazing thing. I remember
    writing BASIC programs on TRS-80s in the computer lab in junior high. (Ugh, I
    was a computer geek!)\r\n\r\nThen my mom, great mother that she is, bought us
    our own Apple II and we spent a couple years playing Castle Wolfenstein, and Zork,
    and The Wizard And The Princess, and Star Maze, and Choplifter...\r\n\r\nBut I
    do feel sorry for new computer users these days, because they are complicated
    -- and if you ask me, it was more fun learning with those early ones."
  created: '2007-09-19 07:22:01'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: "Someone in oslo dislikes a certain brand of computers. I found this sticker
    on a lamp post.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/badreligion_3921.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n.........................................................\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bisondesign.no\">Bison Design</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myspace.com/sponnorway\">Sp\xF6n</a>"
  created: '2007-09-19 08:10:09'
- author:
    name: Christian Barca
    picture: 112373
  body: "[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HtTUsOKjWyQ|Classic!]] \r\n\r\n__________________________________________________\r\nFischers
    Fritz fischt frische Fische, frische Fische fischt Fischers Fritz."
  created: '2007-09-20 16:20:26'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/happy_mac_2x_4692.gif]'
  created: '2007-09-20 16:56:32'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "I remember all of these old guys working at the sign shops that could take
    \"One Shot\" paint and paint the most fantastic letters. Those vinyl plotters
    put them out of business. \r\n\r\nI also remember the first demonstration I saw
    of digital photography around 1989. The camera was a huge video camera. It was
    plugged into a big computer and monitor. The photo  took about five minutes as
    the red, green and blue channels each panned through their individual scans. Then
    it took another five minutes or so for the CPU to process the image. Needless
    to say still shots were all that could be taken. I think that camera cost something
    like $30,000. The little pocket cameras you can buy for a couple of hundred dollars
    today take a picture ten times better and a thousand times faster. \r\n\r\nI won't
    forget the reaction when I told the photo labs that they'd better start establishing
    a digital base. They completely discounted it saying, \"there is no way a digital
    image can ever compete against continuous tone film photography.\" "
  created: '2007-09-20 23:27:31'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "speaking of \"the old days\"...\r\n\r\nI was hand cutting vynil and Rubylith
    films for a screen printing company in about '82 or '83, when I saw the first
    digital plotter for cutting vynil and Rubylith. It was so slow and could only
    cut arcs in something like 3.6 degree increments... I thought - \"These things
    will NEVER replace a skilled guy like myself\" :-)"
  created: '2007-09-21 16:35:24'
date: '2007-09-16 09:25:10'
node_type: forum
title: I hate computers

---
