---
author:
  name: pattyfab
  picture: 109929
body: "I know some of the folks at Punchcut thought it was lame but I really miss
  being able to IM my fellow typophiles. I made some friends that way - a casual IM
  conversation turned into more in-depth dialogue. A lot of typophilers don't post
  their contact info so it was a good way to break the ice. Also a nice way to show
  support for someone, thank a buddy for their support, say hi where have you been,
  what's up, here's a funny link, check out this thread, etc. without clogging up
  your email inbox. People that don't want to use the feature don't have to.\r\n\r\nI
  don't think I'm alone in wanting IMs back - if others agree, please add your names
  to this thread and maybe we can start a groundswell..."
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Yes Patty, I agree.\r\n\r\nHow about bringing back 'next forum topic' too?
    so there is no need to keep going 'back' all the time which is pretty tiresome.\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2007-09-19 17:04:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I second the motion, Patty.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-19 17:20:31'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Let's stick with IMs on this thread. There are other features we'd all like
    to see - or not see - but I'd rather make the point, if there is one to be made,
    about just IMs here.
  created: '2007-09-19 17:21:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Yes, it would be good. The old ''IM'' system was flaky, but a functional
    one would be a definite plus. '
  created: '2007-09-19 17:51:59'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "I miss the IM. I enjoyed the casual conversations that it enabled.\r\n\r\nBut
    I'm sure removing it wasn't an arbitrary decision."
  created: '2007-09-19 18:07:21'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: i want it back too.
  created: '2007-09-19 18:11:00'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: Ditto. I didn't see anyything 'lame' about it, and it allowed for directing
    a specific question that might not warrant its own thread directly to specific
    members.
  created: '2007-09-19 18:17:46'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "No way! The IM was terrible. You would get harassed at all the wrong moments,
    then you had to delete all messages immediately, otherwise the site wouldn't display
    properly, and there was no way to track discussions or IMs you had sent or received.
    More trouble than it was worth. I celebrate its departure with a toast every time
    I log-in to this site.\r\n\r\nOh, and because today is that time of year\u2026\r\nARRRRRRRRRRRGH!
    No more of ye hideeeous internet text messages on Type-O-Phile\u2026 better stick
    to messages in bottles, mateys!"
  created: '2007-09-19 18:44:51'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "Everything Dan said is right on the mark, and that is why we won't be bringing
    back the IM feature anytime soon, at least not the way it was. It is always a
    possiblity that a similar feature with better functionality *might* be integrated
    at some point, but it isn't guaranteed and not top priority.\r\n\r\nWhat is wrong
    with using any of the handful of exceptional and free IM clients available? Services
    like AIM, Messenger, GTalk, etc\u2026 are all perfectly suited for the out-of-forum
    conversations, much more so than what our system is able to provide."
  created: '2007-09-19 19:03:18'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: So you're saying it *was* an arbitrary decision???
  created: '2007-09-19 19:14:31'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Zara - I do use iChat and AIM and stuff like that but you need to already
    have a correspondence going with someone to kick that off. How do you do that
    if their contact info isn't readily available? It's also more work than a quick
    zap, and can be more intrusive than email.\r\n\r\nDan's is only one opinion (and
    interestingly the only one you responded to) and there are many others above that
    differ. Plus this thread has only been up for two hours. I never felt \"harassed\"
    by an IM and I replied when I had the time.\r\n\r\nNo, the IM feature wasn't ideal
    as it was, but it was a feature that some of us really used and as I said above,
    it was the starting point for some friendships I've developed on this forum. I
    wish you'd reconsider."
  created: '2007-09-19 19:22:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Zara: \" we won\u2019t be bringing back the IM feature anytime soon\"\r\nThanks.
    Not much around here needs to happen \"instantly\", which confused it with things
    that do. I very much like the typophile that allows one to interact, or ignore.
    It leads to much more friendly pace and self control for most. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-09-19 19:31:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">typophile that allows one to interact, or ignore\r\n\r\nOne always had the
    choice to permit IMs or not. \r\n\r\nAnother option, just as good, would just
    be to have the choice to e-mail a person through Typophile, if that person opted
    to receive such e-mails. That also used to be possible. "
  created: '2007-09-19 20:06:58'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Dear Dan,\r\n\r\nToday, I had a \"need\" to contact any moderator I could
    find. There is no \"CONTACT\" to press and relay my message. Folks like Miss Tiffany
    do not have in their \"User IDs\" an email address or a website to go find a way
    to contact her. \r\n\r\nI met Miss Patty and Miss Linda through I/Ms when I lost
    my dog. I will never forget how comforting it was to have others understand what
    I was going through.\r\n\r\nI vote for IMs back.\r\n\r\nI also would like to see
    any easier way of contacting folks that matter.\r\n\r\nThank you Patty for starting
    this thread."
  created: '2007-09-19 20:11:58'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "Jackie:\r\n\r\nIf you need to contact someone at Typophile, and you don't
    have access to the moderators contact information, please use the feedback link
    at the bottom of every page.\r\n\r\nBy clicking on the name of a user, it will
    take you to a profile page that has a \"Contact\" link at the top. If this is
    not avilable on the user's profile, then they have made the desicion to not allow
    incoming messages."
  created: '2007-09-19 20:20:19'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Zara \r\n\r\nLife is tough enough - why should we who enjoy and support Typophile
    be subjected to cloak and dagger schemes?\r\n\r\nA contact should be easy to find
    - especially when one wants to report a troll."
  created: '2007-09-19 20:27:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Whoops, I thought wrongly the 'contact' had been disabled. \r\n\r\nZara,
    how does the 'contact' work? I have always opted to permit e-mail contact through
    typophile, but I don't see that option when I click my name, even though I've
    given permission to contact. Is that just because it's me clicking? \r\n\r\nIf
    the 'contact' works for everybody, then we I agree we don't need the sort-of-IMs
    that we had, which are pretty much the same thing. "
  created: '2007-09-19 20:28:02'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Well, \"CONTACT\" seems to be working this afternoon....\r\nat least on yours
    William and now on Tiffany's as well."
  created: '2007-09-19 20:34:35'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: To enable "contact," one must click on "My Account" in the right column (on
    every page), then click "edit" at the top of your profile. You will find an option
    towards the bottom of the page that says "Personal Contact Form." Click this box
    to allow people to send you messages via email (email address is not published).
  created: '2007-09-19 20:37:55'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: If we can stuff the ballot boxes - I'm all in favor of having IMs back!
  created: '2007-09-19 20:51:37'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i'll make an unscientific poll...
  created: '2007-09-19 21:04:43'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> What is wrong with using any of the handful of exceptional and free IM
    clients available?\r\n\r\nI agree that this is a better approach than a site-based
    IM system. I suggest that AIM names be part of the standard profile page so we
    can easily contact those Typophiles who permit it."
  created: '2007-09-19 23:12:03'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I also vote for IM back, and prefer it to simply having my AIM identity out
    in public: if I want to give someone my AIM info, that's my choice.  \r\n\r\nNo,
    it wasn't perfect, but it beats the heck out of not having it at all -- not everyone
    has AIM (et al) because of office firewalls, slow connections, etc.\r\n\r\nAnd
    the contact email system only works if people actually think to turn it on (it
    isn't on by default, which would make things much easier).\r\n\r\nAaaargh, me
    hearties!  Bring back IM or walk the plank!  (Thanks for the reminder, Dan!)"
  created: '2007-09-20 00:09:13'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I also vote for IM back, and prefer it to simply having my AIM identity
    out in public: if I want to give someone my AIM info, that\u2019s my choice.</em>\r\n\r\nthis
    is essentially the same reason why i think that it's better not to have IM on
    the site. because you don't always want unsolicited IMs. it's my choice to give
    my aim/yahoo/msn/google screennames to somebody if i so desire."
  created: '2007-09-20 01:57:44'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "i forgot to link:\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/37274\">IM Poll</a>"
  created: '2007-09-20 01:59:07'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> i\u2019ll make an unscientific poll...\r\n\r\nare you going to IMs the
    results? :^)"
  created: '2007-09-20 02:05:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">because you don\u2019t always want unsolicited IMs\r\n\r\nThen you could
    just opt out in the information in your account, no? So having this function would
    give it to those who want it, and those who don't opt out. I don't see what is
    lost. How much time it would take to get this functional is another story. With
    me it wouldn't be a high priority. \r\n\r\nFWIW, while the IMs were enabled, I
    never received any IMs from anybody but Typophiles. "
  created: '2007-09-20 02:11:46'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: In quite a few forums I've seen kind of internal e-mail for private messages
    between registered members. I think that's a good system, the messages are stored
    in your own mailbox, so you can go back to them if necessary.
  created: '2007-09-20 07:45:37'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Jackie, I'm sorry to hear about your dog. Until I moved away from home, I'd
    always had dogs. When my time in the UK will be over around this time next year
    (god willing\u2026), I may finally get a dog here in Germany, too.\r\n\r\nThere
    is clearly no way that I can retort to others' personal stories of how they made
    great personal connections over the IM feature. Typophile is nothing but a series
    of great personal connections, really, at least in my opinion. Nevertheless, I
    never liked the IM feature at all. I had nothing to do with its disappearance.
    I think that some of the things that people want from it might be better served
    through other channels on this (or other sites).\r\n\r\nPart of this comes from
    my distaste for Instant Messaging in general, and I'll freely admit that. But
    I still can't warm up to the idea of Typophile IMs. I've always found it quite
    rude to not respond to IMs immediately. They are instant you know. The worst thing
    was logging into to typophile after I had been away for a few hours, and seeing
    that several people had thought that I was online, even though I really wasn't.
    They had sent me things or questions, which unfortunately I wasn't around to answer.
    Now, this never happens anymore and I love the peice of mind.\r\n\r\nI love getting
    e-mails because they are quick, but not instant. I try to answer everybody's e-mails
    as soon as possible, and am always happy to receive e-mails via my Typophile contact
    page. It beats most of the other mail I get during the day hands down\u2026"
  created: '2007-09-20 07:57:49'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: You're right mili. Forgot about forum messages. It's the best way. Keeps Typophile
    mail contained on the site. New message notifications can be sent to your email
    or appear somewhere in the navigation (right sidebar here), or you can choose
    to receive no messages at all. All up to the user.
  created: '2007-09-20 07:59:57'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Yes Steve, and when you go on to a site that you are registered that has
    that - it lets you know there is a note waiting for you...\r\n\r\nand thank you
    Dan - to bring you up to date Bogie (the one on the right hand side) aka Mr. Personality
    (he had way too much personality - it was great) was run over by a UPS truck on
    May 16th at 9:30 in the morning... I don't think I'll ever get over it. A month
    later, hubby and I decided that we wanted a second dog to keep Lauren (yep the
    Shih-tzu on the left) company. We found Ollie. Maybe one day I'll post a picture...\r\n\r\nNow
    this has no bearing on the thread -and would have done better in the 1/1 format
    - whatever it was or shall be. :-)"
  created: '2007-09-20 11:19:24'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Patty et al., I'm really glad to hear this kind of feature request and I'm
    sorry the IM feature is missed... As much as it pains me to admit; the reasons
    were purely technical. An IM feature is not a flawed idea, but it was a flawed
    piece of code (and in our view, fatally so).\r\n\r\nAs you might be aware, the
    IM component was a piece of open source code (a Drupal module for the PHP inclined
    among you) that never quite functioned as it should have. Messages were not stored
    by the database and neither were the responses. If you dismissed a note it was
    gone forever. In that sense it was fleeting at best, unreliable and misleading
    at its worst. Moderators had no way of tracking responses, users had no way of
    knowing if a message was received. It was interruptive (in your face), when it
    should've been passive.\r\n\r\nThe second major problem was if you wanted to leave
    the IM there, so you could eventually respond to it at your leisure. To Mili's
    point, this implementation had no inbox or save option. It meant getting duplicate
    messages every time you hit a new page. The result was a nice feature, poorly
    executed. \r\n\r\nBut, the nail in the coffin for <em>this implementation</em>
    of an IM feature was that it would've required more work to re-implement this
    feature that was not supported by the Drupal upgrade. We did not believe the benefit
    lived up to the level of effort required.\r\n\r\nFinally, I would clarify Zara's
    comment this way. That unless the IM module gets significant improvement we won't
    be brining this implementation back. We are very interested in finding ways to
    further people's ability to make connections, foster community and be networked.
    We're investigating ways to enhance each person's profile page to become a \"wall\"
    of sorts for public and private kinds of messaging in addition to the contact,
    blogging, bio and links already afforded there.\r\n\r\n___________\r\n<strong>On
    email notification</strong>\r\n\r\nWilliam, you can let others contact you without
    publicly posting your email address.\r\n\r\nTo turn on private \"email notification\":\r\n-
    Going to your profile by clicking on your name,\r\n- Click edit,\r\n- Scroll to
    the bottom,\r\n- Under \"Contact Settings\" turn on the checkbox.\r\n\r\nYou can
    contact anybody who has opted in to this feature:\r\n- Click on the users' name.\r\n-
    Click the \"Contact\" tab,\r\n- Type your subject and message and hit send.\r\n-
    You can even copy yourself so you have a record of the email."
  created: '2007-09-21 05:48:12'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Joe,\r\n\r\nThanks for the clarification. I now see that this was not an
    arbitrary or presumptuous decision but a feature that became too complicated to
    implement. \r\n\r\nI agree that it didn't quite work as it should have but I do
    miss it and hope that there might be another way to enable easy communication
    between typophiles. That's the main loss for me, it was a really nice way to reach
    out and say hey and in some cases did lead to real dialogues with other users.
    I hate to lose that. I suppose we'll get used to the email contact option, it
    is a bit more involved.\r\n\r\nHow does the email notification work - does it
    just go to your regular email inbox? Or is there something set up at typophile
    to receive comments or messages? That would seem ideal, to keep it within the
    forum rather than needing to switch to another application."
  created: '2007-09-21 06:09:21'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>does it just go to your regular email inbox?</em>\r\n\r\nyes, it goes
    to whatever email you entered in your profile when you signed up for your typophile
    acct. it's not really THAT much more involved either. (at least i don't think
    so) "
  created: '2007-09-21 06:11:30'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Patty, I agree that an intra-site system would be easier to maintain and would
    keep Typophile mail out of your regular inbox. The current contact feature I described
    sends messages via standard email to whichever email is associated with your Typophile
    account. You can change that email account at any time.
  created: '2007-09-21 06:12:56'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "Count me in favor of the return of IMs. I was able to contact one Typophile
    who would have been otherwise unavailable. The only problem I had with it was
    that the person had to be online, i.e., no way to leave a message if they were
    offline. If there are/were some people who sent unwelcome IMs, that could be addressed
    by a blocking feature.\r\n\r\nThere are some people I wanted to communicate with
    and had to Google their name or had to contact them via their website which was
    not posted in their contact info.\r\n\r\nThis also raises the question of why,
    when something is \"improved,\" does it mean less functionality?\r\n\r\nAs to
    using off-the-shelf Open Source modules: imagine if we were limited to creating
    fonts the same way!"
  created: '2007-09-21 14:52:34'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Yes bring back instant messaging, or something like it. I  found it useful
    and practical. Big deal (not) if someone sends you a message and you can't respond
    instantly. Life's too short to fret about things like that.\r\n\r\nNot having
    to use a separate application for short messages is a big plus.\r\n\r\nj a m e
    s"
  created: '2007-09-21 15:08:41'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "I miss the ease of communicating quickly with people I know off thread, but
    truthfully pretty much everything Dan said was on the money. \r\n\r\nI'm one of
    those people on Typophile that has it up for a few hours during the day, but doesn't
    actively participate on the site while its up in my browser window. So, sometimes
    I wouldn't see messages until the next day. Which kinda defeats the point of an
    \"instant message.\"\r\n\r\nThere are companies and programs that specialize in
    instant messaging. I think it might be unrealistic to expect so much packed into
    one site. People don't line up in front of McDonald's when they want a taco. "
  created: '2007-09-21 21:12:51'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "biddy,\r\n\r\nSounds to me like you grew up on metaphors.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile,
    if you log off, you wouldn't have to subject yourself to instant messages you
    wouldn't see....\r\n\r\nGee, just like turning off a radio so you don't have to
    listen to the garbage coming over the airwaves...\r\n\r\nSure does beat a parental
    lettering system!"
  created: '2007-09-21 21:59:53'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: I like keeping it up just in case...but I often forget I have the tab open.
    I actually care more about not responding in a timely manner than anything else.
    I just don't think it's "instant" if you have to refresh the page to see them.
    Sometimes I have to leave a page up to read a full thread throughout the day because
    some of you all have a lot to say. ;)
  created: '2007-09-21 22:11:00'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "I vote for IMs!\r\n\r\n<em>biddy,\r\nSounds to me like you grew up on metaphors.\r\n</em>\r\n\r\nI
    grew up hooked on phonics. Got so bad my parents sent me away to rehab where they
    fed me alphabet soup without the vowels."
  created: '2007-09-21 22:20:43'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "Actually, before the Drupal upgrade, a user would still appear to be online
    up to 30 minutes after logging off (may actually be a longer time period). So,
    someone could still send messages to people who weren't really there, which is
    completely annoying. This is why sometimes upon login, a user would be bombarded
    with messages.\r\n\r\nIn my humble opinion, biddy's metaphor is on the mark :)"
  created: '2007-09-22 01:27:37'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Hiroshige\r\n\r\nYou sound like you have very intelligent and caring parents.
    How old were you then when they gave you back your vowels for signing your name?\r\n\r\nNow
    again, this would be a 1/1 and not part of a thread if we had IM back!"
  created: '2007-09-22 14:38:36'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "I support Patricia, I miss the more informal and ephemeral interaction and
    I'll never forget the first time I received an IM, it was from hrant and it scared
    the hell out of me. It still gives me the creeps to think about the Eye popping
    from nowhere! I was new and didn't know about this feature, I thought it was a
    message from another planet or something. Brrrrrr.... \r\nPat feel free to email
    me anytime."
  created: '2007-09-23 01:27:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I scared the hell out of David Berlow a few months back with an IM. I think
    he was not used to getting a message without looking for one in an inbox. He replied
    \"Phantom notes scare me\". \r\nHe was a very good sport though and answered my
    question despite my unannounced intrusion.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-23 05:37:29'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "I had to edit. I didn't meant it to sound so provocative. :-)\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2007-09-23 13:35:38'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Frankly I must say the IM feature is the very least of my worries for the
    moment. Maybe let's first stick to the truly important features. :^/
  created: '2007-09-23 19:03:34'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: Then we can we have a "READ ALL" button - so we can clear out all the "NEW"
    and continue on just reading those we wish?
  created: '2007-09-23 20:17:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I did send a ''feedback'' on this, but while we''re at it: the ''tracker''
    still works: www.typophile.com/tracker. But there isn''t any link in the site
    anymore that I can see. Others might appreciate it. And it would be great if it
    were upgraded to categorize new posts by IDing the section within forum where
    the post appears. '
  created: '2007-09-23 20:30:22'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: Think about all insults that are exchanged through IM! It's a great buffer!
  created: '2007-09-24 18:02:53'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: I'm  for, IM for.
  created: '2007-09-24 22:28:01'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I think an \"opt-out\" feature in any potential future version of IMs should
    satisfy those who consider them intrusive. They are not nearly as intrusive as
    iChat - tho iChat does allow you to make yourself Unavailable or Away if you're
    busy or on the phone. \r\n\r\nAnother idea would be a feature that let you start
    a chat room within the site, which I know a lot of forums do have. I know a married
    couple who met thru such a feature on a Formula One forum. \r\n\r\nI liked the
    IMs because, like emails, they didn't (to me) demand an instant reply, despite
    the name. I also have typophile open on my browser most of the time and frequently
    didn't notice an IM until hours later, when the person had already logged off.
    I don't think any feelings were bruised if the reply wasn't instant. People are
    busy."
  created: '2007-09-24 23:57:05'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: it just sounds like no matter what case we make, there is no intention to
    bring back the IM. but i can say, from what i've seen, the site hasn't been as
    alive since the changes.
  created: '2007-09-25 02:43:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "How about fix the edit feature so the post stays where it was instead of
    moving to the bottom?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-25 03:58:37'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Chris - they are already on that as far as I know.\r\n\r\nChuck - I agree
    the site isn't as much fun. But regarding the IMs at least Joe did me/us the courtesy
    of explaining why rather than just saying it wasn't gonna happen. I hope that
    this thread will help make our case."
  created: '2007-09-25 04:03:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, Patty. Now if I had IM, I could have just told you that directly
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-25 05:16:23'
date: '2007-09-19 16:54:33'
title: Petition to bring back IMs

---
