---
author:
  name: typewiz
body: I recently stumbled upon Jeremy Tankard's Kingfisher type (http://www.typography.net/type/kingfisher.htm),
  and am curious as to what the general opinion is on this face. It seems like a nice,
  sturdy workhorse and is fully equipped with opentype features, though it is a bit
  pricey. The PDF is particularly extensive.  Any thoughts?
comments:
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "It is a sweet face for sure. \r\n<em>\"...though it is a bit pricey...\"</em>\r\nHow
    do you view that in relation to this:\r\n<em>\" a nice, sturdy workhorse, [] fully
    equipped with opentype features, {...] The PDF is particularly extensive. \"</em>\r\nMore,
    precisely, I'm wondering how much a customer might value a product like this over
    another \"nice, sturdy workhorse\" with only the usual glyphs, no OT advantage
    outside of format conversion, and a single page pdf... i.e. no guide to the product's
    use in composition? \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-09-20 13:47:17'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I've been admiring Kingfisher for some time now. I think I first became aware
    of it about a year ago, and it coincided with a number of things that I'd been
    thinking about also. I'm envious that he got there first.\r\n\r\nI have yet to
    see it used here in the States.\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2007-09-20 14:01:38'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "I might agree that 225 pound Sterling is a pricy font for two weights, when
    Adobe Open type fonts with similar features will only cost $70US.\r\n\r\nI'm not
    saying that Kingfisher isn't worth the price, only that one is justified in calling
    it expensive."
  created: '2007-09-20 14:06:53'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Two weights including italics for \xA3225 makes it against $140. The real
    question should be what use are you putting it to, not that I have any experience
    with it although it is on my wish list.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-09-20 14:57:23'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: "I don't see what the issue is with pricing, it's like buying $99 denim opposed
    to $300 ones, they are both made out of the same material but you got to think
    about the targeted market, quality, features, creativity/uniqueness etc. In some
    cases $300 seems warranted, some cases it does not. If you have no clothes, you
    should buy some ubiquitous Adobe face, but you will see everyone wear the same
    jeans from Jay Jays on the street.\r\n\r\nI really dig the gf combo there."
  created: '2007-09-20 15:19:33'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Kent wrote:\r\n\r\n\"I have yet to see it [Kingfisher] used here in the States.\"\r\n\r\nWell,
    maybe once again Minnesota Historical Society Press is in the vanguard.* Minneapolis
    book design firm Percolator [http://www.percolator.us/] designed a book for us
    recently set in Kingfisher. \u201CBeware of Cat\u201D by Vincent Wyckoff is a
    wise and gentle memoir of carrying the mail on the same route for 15 years. It
    is published under our trade imprint, Borealis Books.\r\n\r\nAfter working with
    Percolator on this project, I'd slightly modify the comment by typewiz to say
    that Kingfisher is a VERY \"nice, sturdy workhorse.\" Obviously Percolator had
    no problems with the price. Nor would I. It is well worth it.\r\n\r\n& I think
    I can see some of the things in Kingfisher that caught Kent's eye.\r\n\r\npowers\r\n\r\n*
    I think we may have been the first to use Chaparral for text setting in a book,
    and we were an early user of Kent's Whitman. Also of Clifford. I & the designers
    I hire are fully aware of the advantages offered to book composition by new types.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-20 15:25:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "A COMPARISON\r\n\r\n<li>Adobe <em>Font & Function</em> flyer, Winter 1995</li>\r\n\r\nMinion\r\nReg,
    SemiBold, Bold, with Italics.\r\nBlack.\r\nDisplay Reg and Italic\r\n9 fonts:
    $199\r\n\r\nMinion Expert Collection\r\nSame styles.\r\n13 fonts: $99\r\n\r\nMinion
    Cyrillic\r\n6 fonts: $149\r\n\r\nMinion Greek\r\nNot listed, but let's assume
    a similar price.\r\n6 fonts: $149 \r\n\r\nTotal--30 Type 1 fonts: $596\r\n\r\n<li>Winter
    2007, Adobe.com online store</li>\r\n\r\nMinion Pro\r\nEquivalent functionality
    \r\n6 OpenType fonts: $210\r\n\r\n(Black not available)\r\n\r\nNew fonts are priced
    similarly. Development costs have not come down -- the same number of characters
    still have to be designed and drawn.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-20 15:48:11'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Will -- MNHS is indeed a beacon of the vanguard. Once again, props to you
    (and Percolator) for championing new typefaces in books. I'll keep an eye out
    for <cite>Beware of Cat</cite>.\r\n\r\nP.S. <cite>Ordinary Ways</cite> arrived
    just the other day. Many thanks. I'm planning to put up some snapshots when I
    revise my website (in process).\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2007-09-20 16:43:07'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> Two weights including italics for \xA3225 makes it against $140.\r\n\r\nNo
    it doesn't. Adobe charges $35 each, so it is the $70 I said, not $140. (Now, that
    said, I know Adobe charges outrageous markups on software to Europe, so if the
    same happens to fonts, the difference might be much less than it seems.)"
  created: '2007-09-20 20:53:50'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">No it doesn\u2019t.\r\nMy maths may not be what they were but 35 multiplied
    by 4 is 140, maybe I am missing something. I am looking at the US store, (UK store
    is \xA325 each, which given the current rate of exchange is pretty steep).\r\n\r\nKingfisher
    Regular & Italic and Kingfisher Bold & Bold Italic \xA3225\r\n\r\nMinion Pro Regular
    $35, Minion Pro Italic $35, Minion Pro Bold $35, Minion Pro Bold Italic $35\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-09-21 10:52:56'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Hi there:\r\n\r\nKingfisher Regular, Regular Italic & Bold, Bold Italic are
    bundled together- so 4 styles all together. Its priced at \xA3225 pounds which
    is $452 here in the states. That's $113 per style. VERY EXPENSIVE is more like
    it! \r\n\r\nThere is no doubt that Kingfisher is nice (but not spectacular like
    Enigma is)- I particularly like the swash add-ons and the complete ligature set.
    But Kingfisher is priced in DTL territory which is not cool. \r\n\r\nAs mentioned
    earlier, fonts are not any different than other goods purchased by a consumer.
    Specifically, when the price is higher than other goods, no matter how high the
    quality is in comparison to those goods, price will always place a major role
    in the purchase decision. We've all shopped for cars right?\r\n\r\nPersonally
    I would seriously shop around to see if anyone else has something similar. An
    economical 'literary' face with delicate details. \r\n\r\nAlthough nothing alike-
    I would have a have gander at Veronkia Burian's Karmina. It certainly economical-
    pretty details from Veronika's pen but page color would be blacker though.\r\n\r\nWhat
    do plan on using Kingfisher for?\r\n\r\nMike Diaz :-)"
  created: '2007-09-21 12:02:18'
- author:
    name: johndberry
    picture: 109524
  body: "I used Kingfisher for a book in 2005, and it worked very well. The book was
    <em>Cultural Breaks: A Collection of Short Fictions</em>, by Brian Aldiss, published
    by Tachyon Publications in San Francisco. (I only did the interior; the dust jacket
    was designed by someone else.) Since Aldiss is a literary science-fiction author
    and lives in Oxford, it seemed appropriate to use a typeface with English roots;
    but the real point wasn't where it was designed, but what effect it gave on the
    page while you were reading. I wasn't sure at first that Jeremy's italic would
    work here; it's nearly a slanted roman, with just a few cursive touches, and one
    of the stories had extensive passages in italic. But in fact the Kingfisher italic
    proved very readable, yet still different enough in structure to stand out in
    the occasional italicized word in running text. \r\n\r\nThe strong color made
    the pages easily read, even while the letterforms had a certain refined elegance;
    just what I wanted for this particular book. I appreciated details like the italic
    small caps -- and the regular small caps are strong enough to stand out in short
    acronyms in the middle of text. Having Kingfisher as an OpenType font made all
    the difference in quick, efficient book production; I could, for instance, automate
    all those small caps by using a character style in InDesign. \r\n\r\nVery good
    book typeface. And the display version looked very nice at Really Big Size, too.\r\n\r\nJohn
    Berry\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-21 12:50:10'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">VERY EXPENSIVE is more like it!\r\n\r\nThat is partly due to exchange rates,
    Jeremy Tankard can hardly be blamed for a weak dollar. I don\u2019t have any brief
    to push this nor is it pedantry, it concerns me that a search for Kingfisher could
    lead to this thread and a wrong impression received regarding the value (rather
    than cost), obviously not exclusive to this typeface or thread.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-09-21 14:38:37'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "Nick's post notwithstanding, not all of us use programs that take advantage
    of OT-Pro features.\r\n\r\nIf anyone wants TT or OT (not -Pro), then the prices
    ARE expensive.\r\n\r\nIf the issue really IS \"the same number of characters still
    have to be designed and drawn\" then the REAL issue is bundling. If I only want/need/can
    afford R/I/RI/BI (with or without SC) then should I be forced to buy multiple
    weights and styles and features?\r\n\r\nApparently if you're Tankard or House
    Industries, the answer is yes.\r\n\r\nI own Nick's wonderful Goodchild, and if
    I was forced to spend $452 for 4 or 5 or 32 variations of the font from super
    light to ultra-black with glyphs I'd never use, I couldn't have afforded it, but
    even if I could, it would be a poor value for the money considering what would
    go unused."
  created: '2007-09-21 15:36:41'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "You're right Timd. I was thinking faces, not weights.  \xA325 is the UK price
    ... that's about $50US, right? Surprisingly, this is not as much of a gouge as
    the software apps seem to be."
  created: '2007-09-21 18:32:35'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">then the prices ARE expensive\r\n\r\nThat is the price for Kingfisher, if
    you <em>must</em> have it then you <em>must</em> pay for it, it is neither cheap
    nor expensive, there is also the circular argument of whether it is worth it to
    the foundry to create/promote/sell/support other formats, if they choose not to
    and that doesn\u2019t suit then you have an option.\r\n\r\nDon, your exchange
    rate is about right, of course that is without knowing how local taxes affect
    the prices.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-09-21 18:59:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Steve, thanks for the big-up.\r\n\r\n<em>should I be forced to buy multiple
    weights and styles and features?</em>\r\n\r\nIn future, I won't be producing $99
    per family basic encoding packages in Type1/TrueType ($20 per font, $39 individually).\r\n\r\nMy
    OpenType equivalent will be a family of four for around $150 ($38 per font, $50
    individually).\r\nSuch fonts would have all the typographic features, plus CE.\r\nWith
    Cyrillic and Greek, a bit more.\r\nHaving gone to the trouble of meeting the new
    standard for international corporations (language support) and picky book typographers
    (all the goodies), it's simply too much trouble to break one big OT font down
    into its constituents as separate products, and to manage all that in a retail
    environment (multiple distributors, etc.).\r\n\r\nMy back catalog of older format
    fonts continues to sell steadily, so I may yet produce new typefaces in Type 1/TT
    format.\r\nI am also contemplating an incredibly-cheap product line or package,
    on the low-price-big volume principle.\r\n\r\nBut for now, it looks like new fonts
    will be \"expensive and loaded\" -- we'll see how that works out.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    wouldn't you like small caps and old style figures?"
  created: '2007-09-21 20:09:42'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "<cite> If I only want/need/can afford R/I/RI/BI (with or without SC) then
    should I be forced to buy multiple weights and styles and features? </cite>\r\n\r\nUm,
    who is <cite>forcing</cite> you to buy? \r\n\r\nAbout prices/pricing. I must say
    that this is a very tricky decision, from a type designer's point of view. For
    instance, if the price is high, the sales volume may be lower, but may be the
    same amount of money made by pricing low & selling many. Or maybe it will sell
    the same amount licences regardless of the price. And if the price is lower, does
    that mean that more folks can afford & use the typeface? \r\n\r\nI have a pet
    theory about high prices of type, that you might like to hear. If the price of
    a typeface is extremely higher than average, then those who buy it will consider
    it more of an investment than, say, a $20 special from MyFonts. Because they paid
    such a high price, they will be very unwilling to pirate the fonts about as well,
    as it devalues their own investment. And as we all know, a high price immediately
    makes us think that it is so much better than a cheaper alternative, like most
    luxury brands. \r\n\r\nBut, having said all this, the ultimate decision is by
    the seller. If they price high, then so be it. If you can't afford it now, then
    save up & buy it when you can, if you really want it. We are hardly debating the
    price of items <cite>essential </cite> to our day-to-day survival! \r\n\r\n\u2014K\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-21 22:06:25'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "<em>But, having said all this, the ultimate decision is by the seller. If
    they price high, then so be it.</em>\r\n\r\nI obviously can't control how a type
    designer either prices or bundles fonts. But I do have a choice, IF I can afford
    to pay the price, or if I can't afford it, the choice has been made for me.\r\n\r\nThat
    said, if a vendor bundles a dozen fonts not in the same family and charges a bundle
    for it (pun intended), I have a whole lot less sympathy for the designer or vendor
    if someone pirates, copies, or rips off a particular font.\r\n\r\nOriginally Crackhouse
    was only part of a $299 package. (Now it's available separately as a single weight
    for $75.) Too little, too late: now you can download a rip-ff for free. Boo hoo.\r\n\r\nOr,
    as Stephen Coles said, \"[House Industries,] like Veer and others who sell only
    font packages, I believe their goal is to be the sort of retailer that makes $200
    sales rather than $20 sales, even if it means losing a few $20 sales along the
    way. It\u2019s worked out quite well for them.\"\r\n\r\nI understand the type
    designers and the professional type users for whom no price is too much, especially
    if it produces exclusivity. What about all the rest of us who produce newsletters
    or fliers for non-profits. We don't need exclusivity, as if a font were a designer
    handbag, but just maybe we poorer types do know a good font when we see one and
    would like to use it.\r\n\r\nBecause too many of you are pricing yourselves out
    of my ability to pay, I have no problem using Storm's FREE Lido, or Fontin Sans
    by Jos Buivenga. Fontin Sans is available FREE in OpenType. Why would you not
    want to download this marvelous font family (R/I/B/BI/SC) with a true italic?\r\n\r\nI
    DO appreciate the work that goes into the design and production and marketing
    of a font, but if the font business goes the way of the American automobile business,
    pardon me if I don't weep for you. I DO pay for fonts that I like and can afford.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not old enough to remember the glories of metal type, but I am old enough to remember
    vendors producing print newsletters and catalogs, -- and even Image Club who sold
    fonts that I could afford when I couldn't afford fonts that I can afford to buy
    now."
  created: '2007-09-22 03:57:02'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "<cite> We don\u2019t need exclusivity, as if a font were a designer handbag,
    but just maybe we poorer types do know a good font when we see one and would like
    to use it. </cite>\r\n\r\nThis seems slightly strange to me. Just because you
    want it, it has to be within your price range?\r\n\r\n<cite>Because too many of
    you are pricing yourselves out of my ability to pay, I have no problem using Storm\u2019s
    FREE Lido, or Fontin Sans by Jos Buivenga. Fontin Sans is available FREE in OpenType.
    Why would you not want to download this marvelous font family (R/I/B/BI/SC) with
    a true italic?</cite>\r\n\r\nOf course you have no problem using free typefaces!
    You pay nothing, you get something for free. Are you saying that if everyone priced
    <cite>within</cite> your ability to pay, you would have a problem using free typefaces?
    And if I may ask, what is <cite>your</cite> ideal price range for a fully featured
    text typeface like Kingfisher? Can you give us all an examples of typefaces priced
    too cheaply, just right, and too expensive?\r\n\r\n<cite>but if the font business
    goes the way of the American automobile business, pardon me if I don\u2019t weep
    for you.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat do you mean by this? I am not too familiar with the
    American automobile business, not quite sure how cars relate to type. \r\n\r\n\u2014K\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-22 05:12:31'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "I DO appreciate the work that goes into the design and production and marketing
    of a font, but if the font business goes the way of the American automobile business,
    pardon me if I don\u2019t weep for you. I DO pay for fonts that I like and can
    afford.\r\n\r\nJesus h bloody christ. Pardon everyone else who doesn' tfucking
    well weep for you. Typical of hacks to moan and bleet like sheep when they can't
    afford a font!! Then they get all riteous when a font is priced high. \r\n\r\nSeems
    like those who can do, those who can;t moan.\r\n\r\n-----------------------\r\nChopper
    Reid says \"Harden the fuck up\".\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-22 08:26:30'
- author:
    name: Co
  body: "\"I might agree that 225 pound Sterling is a pricy font for two weights,
    when Adobe Open type fonts with similar features will only cost $70US.\"\r\n\r\n\r\nComparing
    Adobe with Tankard does not make sense.\r\nAdobe is not a classical type foundry.
    The font development team gets the funding that is not exclusively generated by
    type sales. Adobe typefaces enhance the value of Adobe software.\r\nFollowing
    the same line, one might say that the system fonts of Microsoft are also for free.
    Are they? We pay their price when buying our next Windows.\r\nSo, comparing those
    isn't right.\r\n\r\nIndependent foundries like Tankard, Typotheque, etc are free
    to establish their prices according to their views, and are not obliged to follow
    the trends of the mainstream market, or patterns established by giants like Adobe
    or Microsoft.\r\n\r\nThat counts also for bakers -- here are bakers who make and
    sell bread that's way above the average price at Sainsbury's.\r\n\r\nMore, users
    have plenty of choice and are not obliged to buy Tankard fonts if they cannot
    afford it.\r\n \r\nAnd, if it comes to prices, there are foundries that offer
    fonts at even higher rates, and they are still there, they are not out of the
    market.\r\n\r\n\r\nGreetings,\r\nCo.\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-23 12:31:36'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "I <em>really</em> don't see what is the problem here. I can't afford a Mercedes
    Vito, so I bought a second hand Citro\xEBn Berlingo. Do I moan and bitch about
    that? :^P ;^)\r\n\r\n> <em>And, if it comes to prices, there are foundries that
    offer fonts at even higher rates, and they are still there, they are not out of
    the market.</em>\r\n\r\nExactly. I don't see anyone picketing the Ferrari headquarters
    and demand lower prices for their cars. :^D"
  created: '2007-09-23 19:21:58'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Actually, come to think of it -- I applaud people like Jeremy for having the
    confidence in the quality of their product to set their prices accordingly.
  created: '2007-09-23 19:25:17'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: 'Kingfisher will be introduced as the new editorial typeface in the next issue
    of <em>Baseline</em> (together with Akkurat, which is used in the current issue,
    as part of their re-design by HDR Visual Communication). If you find the magazine
    to be too expensive, you can always find it in a library. '
  created: '2007-09-23 23:00:41'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "> <em>If you find the magazine to be too expensive, you can always find it
    in a library.</em>\r\n\r\n:^D"
  created: '2007-09-24 01:42:47'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "In the states I believe Baseline is an import and is not a cheap magazine.
    But if I see it, I read it, then put it back on the shelf!\r\n\r\nHA!\r\n\r\nMikey
    :-)"
  created: '2007-09-24 06:14:06'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "For Kris:\r\n\r\n<em>For instance, if the price is high, the sales volume
    may be lower, but may be the same amount of money made by pricing low & selling
    many. Or maybe it will sell the same amount licences regardless of the price.
    And if the price is lower, does that mean that more folks can afford & use the
    typeface?</em>\r\n\r\nA fabulous example of high quality at low price is House
    Industries's Neutraface, Chalet,  or Paperpack collections. Their products fly
    off the shelf! Sales will only exist if the fonts are good designs. Look at DSTtypes
    Estillo- it outsells everything else he makes. He priced it so that the buyer
    would not even think twice before swiping his or her Visa. Fonts that suck don't
    sell well cheap or high. Look at all the crap on myfonts. There are some \"designers\"
    that think they can make a living with that nonsense. \r\n\r\n<em>\"If the price
    of a typeface is extremely higher than average, then those who buy it will consider
    it more of an investment...\"</em>\r\n\r\nEverything I buy is an investment but
    if the typeface is expensive then I am even more concerned to see if the price
    tag matches its performance. But usually, The higher the price the more I start
    looking at alternatives with quality as one of the main criteria.\r\n\r\n<em>\"A
    high price immediately makes us think that it is so much better than a cheaper
    alternative\"</em>\r\n\r\nNot for me. I hold the $20 font to the same standard
    as the $35 and $60 one. I expect every type designer to do his or her upmost no
    matter what the price is. Humans are very fallible creatures. Every font has something
    that's not quite as it should be- design, kerning, features, etc. I expect niggle
    with Fleischmann when I buy it some day. Speaking of the $20 specials on myfonts-
    MVB has been putting out excellent opentype fonts on sale for a while now. There
    is an example where excellence can be had for less- so there are exception to
    the rule.\r\n\r\nMikey :-)\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-24 06:24:33'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "For Co>\r\n\r\n<em> The font development team gets the funding that is not
    exclusively generated by type sales. </em>\r\n\r\nAre you sure? Adobe sells plenty.
    There fonts are sold by every single distributor I can think of. Perhaps Phinney
    can comment on your assertion. \r\n\r\nMikey :-)"
  created: '2007-09-24 06:25:55'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Okay my last installment... :-)\r\n\r\nQuality and reasonable pricing are
    not mutually exclusive. Just look at the output of the new indies latetly. Every
    purchaser of type has that pricing \"sweet-spot\" of quality and price which we
    all seek to find, but in some cases there are no adequate substitutes or equivalents.
    For me over $100 a style is way too much. After that, I have to look for ways
    to justify it. If I can't, then I will keep looking and waiting. Not to say I
    haven't done so. I have spent $100 on a single Type1 font and will do so soon
    too. The design I purchased is <em>supremely</em> better (that's right- I said
    supremely) than all others that have attempted the revival so I'm happy to have
    spent that kind of money. I always place quality first when shopping for type.
    Then price.\r\n\r\nBut excellent book workhorses? These can be found all over
    the place for less money. Will these alternatives be as good as Kingfisher- maybe.
    Will these be better- maybe. Could Kingfisher be the best font on the planet?...
    perhaps not to me, but I'm glad that those who have ponyed up to buy it, enjoy
    it very much. Perhaps a reason for Typewiz to purchase it.\r\n\r\nWhat I find
    so great about a free market is, if I think your prices are too high; there is
    (most of the time) some other type designer who will offer the same things for
    less money, or more things for the same money; and that person will get my business.
    Look at the beautiful Miller from Font Bureau and the \"pragmatic\" Chronicle
    from HF&J- not the same, but both for news- both very well done. I would not be
    surprised if Miller's sales have slide a bit because of the tremendous value put
    into the HF&J package. (personally I'm a Miller man myself but anyway...)\r\n\r\nAs
    buyers of type we need to always need to do our due diligence when it comes to
    making purchase decisions (as Typewiz is). I think we need to remember that Typewiz
    thinks the price is a little expensive (I agree with him). Maybe he'll buy it,
    maybe he won't. I'm sure the positive feedback (and his checkbook) will help him
    decide.\r\n\r\nI like what Yves said about the cars. Although I would have bought
    something Japanese :-)\r\n\r\n\r\nAll my best to Typewiz and everybody else too,
    \r\n\r\nMike Diaz :-)\r\n\r\nAs a side note- Kris's Feijoa looks like another
    great choice for text! Its absolutely beautiful. If Typewiz is not sold on Kingfisher,
    Feijoa would make a fabulous selection. It certainly feels luxurious and does
    not look like \"cheaper alternative\" even though is seriously well priced! Feijoa
    reminds me of a warm letterpress Coranto. Its complement of ligatures are more
    fun too (and it's about time someone does f \xED combinations- eastern europeans
    need ligatures too :-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-24 06:43:34'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Mikey,\r\n\r\n<cite>Fonts that suck don\u2019t sell well cheap or high. Look
    at all the crap on myfonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is a given, considering that we
    are talking about Kingfisher & it's price.\r\n\r\n<cite>A fabulous example of
    high quality at low price is House Industries\u2019s Neutraface, Chalet, or Paperpack
    collections. Their products fly off the shelf! Sales will only exist if the fonts
    are good designs.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut this still doesn't address the price-high/sell
    few or price-low/sell many. I guess this will be a question that will remain unanswered!\r\n\r\n<cite>Not
    for me. I hold the $20 font to the same standard as the $35 and $60 one. I expect
    every type designer to do his or her upmost no matter what the price is.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut,
    presumably, you'd only hold that $20 typeface to the same standard if it is from
    a 'good' foundry, and not the \"crap on MyFonts\"?\r\n\r\n<cite>But usually, The
    higher the price the more I start looking at alternatives with quality as one
    of the main criteria.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhich brings me back to my unanswered question
    to Renaissance Man: what is the ideal price range for a fully featured text typeface
    like Kingfisher? Can you give us all examples of quality typefaces priced too
    cheaply, just right, and too expensive?\r\n\r\n\u2014K\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-24 06:49:41'
- author:
    name: Co
  body: "> Are you sure? Adobe sells plenty. There fonts are sold by every single
    distributor I can think of. Perhaps Phinney can comment on your assertion.\r\n\r\n\r\nMikey,
    \r\n\r\nthe point is not who sells more. \r\nIt's simply different business. \r\n\r\nGreetings,
    Co."
  created: '2007-09-24 10:45:42'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> In the states I believe Baseline is an import and is not a cheap magazine.
    But if I see it, I read it, then put it back on the shelf!\r\n\r\nAh, a literary
    pirate. Aaarrrgh."
  created: '2007-09-24 14:10:40'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "I've been prowling around Typophile far longer than my \"member for\" date
    indicates. Boy, am I a slow learner.\r\n\r\nSOME of the typophilles (and poseurs)
    here bristle at free fonts, justify high prices, demand quality in a font or website
    <strong>unless</strong> it's one of your own, then you piss and moan and howl
    about me and people like me who have a  champagne taste and a beer budget, and
    who expects professional types to be professional.\r\n\r\nWell, you professional
    types may think you can have it both ways, but the rest of us know better.\r\n\r\nThere's
    been a lot of trashing of MyFonts on this thread and others, and if you don't
    like it, don't buy there. There are some type designers, like Nick Shinn who sell
    their fonts there, and even though he's rather successful at selling proprietary
    fonts, he is still grateful for MyFonts.\r\n\r\nI refrained from stooping to Muzzer's
    level (if you can't attack the facts, resort to ad hominem arguments) hoping that
    someone else here would. He's the Sipro Agnew for all the Richard Nixon la-de-da
    upper crust types (or the Dick Cheney for you dubya la-de-da upper crust types)
    here.\r\n\r\nThose of you, who I otherwise consider class acts, in letting him
    get away with that kind of crap, demonstrate where you really stand.\r\n\r\nThose
    who think comparing fonts to cars are now in my territory. Any effin' idiot can
    design a world class car for $250,000 on up, but the REAL credit goes to those
    who can combine the best of all possible attributes in a car that sells for the
    masses.\r\n\r\nFor those who want to sell the Louis Vuitton or Ferrari equivalent
    of fonts at stratospheric prices, be my guest. It you want to try to try to thrive
    on exclusivity (\"if you have to ask, you can't afford it\") go ahead. But As
    I said before, if there are rip offs, don't come boo-hooin' to me. If you want
    sympathy, look in the dictionary.\r\n\r\nThe link between quality and price is
    tenuous at best. For those who are dedicated to their craft, and want to make
    a living at it, I salute you, and am willing to buy your fonts. (Shinn, Stone,
    Porchez, Degroot, Buivenga, and others.) For those who are a legend in your own
    minds, well you have enough supporters that anything I can say matters little."
  created: '2007-09-24 20:34:30'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "<cite>then you piss and moan and howl about me and people like me who have
    a champagne taste and a beer budget</cite>\r\n\r\nBut there are so many typographic
    options for a beer budget, it is almost overwhelming!\r\n\r\n<cite>Those of you,
    who I otherwise consider class acts, in letting him get away with that kind of
    crap, demonstrate where you really stand.</cite>\r\n\r\nI do not defend Muzzer's
    comments, but I'd rather stay on the topic. \r\n\r\n<cite>The link between quality
    and price is tenuous at best. For those who are dedicated to their craft, and
    want to make a living at it, I salute you, and am willing to buy your fonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nDoes
    this mean that you wouldn't license Kingfisher? Surely you'd rate Jeremy Tankard
    as someone who is dedicated to his craft, willing to make a living, and deserving
    of your salute! \r\n\r\n<cite>Those who think comparing fonts to cars are now
    in my territory. Any effin\u2019 idiot can design a world class car for $250,000
    on up, but the REAL credit goes to those who can combine the best of all possible
    attributes in a car that sells for the masses.</cite>\r\n\r\nThanks for clarifying!
    I think I now understand your earlier analogy. So is there an equivalent typeface
    to this car that that combines the best of all possible attributes and sells to
    the masses? The 6 new Vista typeface families? The myriad of typefaces that some
    with your computer? Helvetica? Times? How many cars do you need?\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------\r\n\r\nAs
    a fledgling type designer, I would like to say that pricing is never an easy thing,
    I doubt it is taken lightly by any retailers. For instance, after four years of
    work on Feijoa (yikes!), deciding that a price of $US 150 was almost heartbreaking.
    It would seem to be a monumental waste of time if it only sold once or twice.
    But if it did take off, then all those years of living hand-to-mouth would be
    worth it. I can understand the retailers who would just feel that pricing their
    work higher than 'average' is justified\u2014all the customer sees is the final
    price, never the hours/days/years/decades that go into designing the typeface.
    I can also understand those who price lower than 'average' in order to (hopefully)
    increase sales. \r\n\r\nI would like to be very clear. The only reason that I
    am involved in this thread is to try and determine what is considered a fair price
    for typefaces. I am neither championing free fonts nor expensive ones, folks will
    do what they feel is right. To this end, Steve & others, may I ask you again:
    \r\n\r\nWhat is the ideal price range for a fully featured text typeface like
    Kingfisher? Can you please give us all examples of quality typefaces priced too
    cheaply, just right, and too expensive?\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-09-24 22:04:40'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<cite>I like what Yves said about the cars. Although I would have bought
    something Japanese :-)</cite>\r\n\r\nThe problem with Japanese cars is that they
    hardly break down and have a long lifespan. French cars on the other hand\u2026
    And that\u2018s why they are really cheap to operate: plenty of affordable spare
    parts around!\r\n\r\n___\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2007-09-24 22:15:31'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "When I was a principal in a very small design firm (just me and my then wife),
    I would spend 1000 to 2000 euro's a year on typefaces. Some cheap, some expensive,
    but ALWAYS effective for the chosen purpose (at least, that\u2019s what I hope).
    \r\nEven now, when I am on hiatus, I have bought some families and single faces
    (Luxury from HI, Locator from Process Type, last week London Underground Pro from
    P22) because I felt I NEEDED them. You can check what I paid for that\u2026\r\n\r\nAnd
    with the dollar taking a dive, American type is becoming really cheap!\r\n\r\nKris:
    Seriously, I think that the range of 30 to 50 $ per face and 150 to 300 per family
    is fair. For extended features or larger families I willingly pay more (let\u2019s
    say up to 750). And for really classy stuff I will sell some of my Apple-shares,
    if needed.\r\n\r\n___\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2007-09-24 22:25:45'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Whoa, Steve , chill! There really is no need to get all worked up over this.\r\n\r\nThe
    point I was trying to make is that I believe in the designers deciding for themselves
    which price is right for their typefaces, and the users to decide for themselves
    if they're willing to pay that price. It's all about self-determination, you know.\r\n\r\n>
    <em>But As I said before, if there are rip offs, don\u2019t come boo-hooin\u2019
    to me. If you want sympathy, look in the dictionary.</em>\r\n\r\nSo if I interpret
    your words correctly, theft of intellectual property is warranted if a designer
    sets his prices too high for your standards? Now <em>that</em> is an intriguing
    ethical position. :^)\r\n\r\nAnd please don't put words in other people's mouths
    as if you can read their minds. Really, I'm cool with freeware fonts (at least
    the rare quality ones) and have been using some of them from time to time. I'm
    cool with cheap fonts, as I have licensed many. I'm cool with expensive fonts,
    as I have licensed few. But I'm not angry at Tankard for setting his prices as
    he deems correct: it really is not my business. And I certainly wouldn't accuse
    him of being \"a legend in [his] own mind\". Your comments come across as really
    bitter and acerbic. I fear they tell more about you than about those you call
    the \"la-de-da upper crust types\"."
  created: '2007-09-24 23:28:23'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Trying to equate fonts to cars is never going to work, for the reason, among
    others, that fonts do not have built-in obsolesence, in fact, given the environment
    they are designed for, they soldier on forever (or can be replaced from a backup).
    \r\nI don\u2019t think there is a font which is so stellar that it cannot be replaced
    by an alternative within a budget, the lower the budget, the less alternatives.
    \r\nProfessional types have the advantage in that they can ask for budgets which
    include a provision for typefaces, on the other hand they do have to produce.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-09-25 08:54:21'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "<em>So if I interpret your words correctly, theft of intellectual property
    is warranted if a designer sets his prices too high for your standards?</em>\r\n\r\nYves:
    Clarification: theft of intellectual property is never warranted or justified.
    Over-priced merchandise just invites it.\r\n\r\nKris: Fontin Sans is so good I'd
    buy it if it were not free. But I AM glad it was free. Recent purchases that fall
    into the \"just right\" category include Parisene Plus, TheSans Office, Cycles
    and Arepo (purchased at half-price from MyFonts), Goodchild (purchased at Fonts.com
    for $99 in TT), and Mrs. Eves. One price-related issue is not just how much a
    font costs, but bundling: forcing me to buy fonts I don't want, or weights I don't
    need in order to get the font or weights I want. Nueue Helvetica is one example;
    all House fonts are another. Because I think they are fairly priced and bundled,
    I'm considering Clearview Text and Berling Nova. And I really like Canada Type."
  created: '2007-09-25 13:25:55'
date: '2007-09-20 11:38:35'
node_type: forum
title: Tankard's Kingfisher

---
