---
author:
  name: david h
  picture: 110928
body: "\r\n<a href=\"http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2007/09/070918-languages-extinct.html\">National
  Geographic News:</a>\r\n\r\n\"Languages are undergoing a global extinction crisis\"\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I going to hop on the unpopular soapbox and say <cite>good</cite>. That old
    languages die off and are replaced by new ones is a sign that everything is continuing
    as normal, the expanded pace means that people will be able to communicate more
    easily across cultures, share ideas faster, and those things will allow the scientific
    advances of the Twenty-first century to outclass all that has come before in ways
    that we will likely find mindblowing at times. \r\n\r\nTo quote Octavia Butler,
    \u201CGod is change.\u201D To try and stand in the way of such an inevitable,
    ineffable, and damn-near omnipotent force is no more sensible than to deny the
    most basic laws of science."
  created: '2007-09-20 23:57:28'
- author:
    name: cuttin shapes
    picture: 112165
  body: here in wales they passed a welsh language act meaning everything gotta be
    in English and welsh and companies need a certain percentage of welsh speakers.
    design wise its a pain in the arse getting a circumflex w and y.
  created: '2007-09-21 00:00:24'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "> people will be able to communicate more easily across cultures\r\n\r\nCertainly
    so true today\u2026 :)\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-09-21 00:13:59'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "> old languages die off and are replaced by new ones\r\n\r\nI didn\u2019t
    read the article but I\u2019d guess that old languages aren\u2019t replaced but
    just vanish.\r\n\r\nLanguage = culture. Less languages = less culture.\r\npeople
    will be able to communicate more easily across cultures = good\r\nLoosing variety
    of cultures = bad"
  created: '2007-09-21 00:44:06'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I remember an old piece in The Sciences. The numbers then were going from
    something like 9,000 languages down to 600. At that time they were having to decide
    which ones would be preserved and documented.\r\n\r\nI'm not a moralist so I won't
    say it is good or bad. Aesthetically I'm not so interested in a future where everyone
    is fat, uneducated and speaks English."
  created: '2007-09-21 01:13:52'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "There is far more at stake than just losing native languages. Words are often
    the gateway to thought, and diversity of language often allows for expanded collective
    consciousness.\r\n\r\nConsider how the English language itself is eroding and
    average vocabulary diminishing. The current operative mode is <em>reduction</em>,
    using fewer words in simplistic structure to convey broader meaning, often leading
    to ambiguity, not clarity.\r\n\r\nIt's not that <em>many</em> languages are good,
    but that some languages (some verbal, some written) offer lexicons that inherently
    carry perceptions not found in any other language. The need to create words is
    based on the need to express ideas, emotions, descriptions or phenomena.\r\n\r\nWhen
    a culture becomes dominant over another, one of the most common actions historically
    is to ban the language. Not because the intent is to harmonize and improve communication,
    but chiefly to strip ideology and culture from a people. This would not have historically
    happened if it wasn't for the inherent power of  a people's language.\r\n\r\nTo
    be clear -- I am not in favor of many languages just for pure numbers, but I am
    in favor of diversity of thought and expression."
  created: '2007-09-21 01:14:47'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Language = culture. Less languages = less culture.</cite>\r\n\r\nCulture
    is not be dependent on language. Malevich and the thousands of artist he inspired
    \ figured that out ages ago. Having fewer languages to speak will not prevent
    the creative minds of the world from contributing to their respective cultures.
    But it will make it easier for them to be understood by others, at least when
    the work is rooted in language to begin with.\r\n\r\n<cite>Consider how the English
    language itself is eroding and average vocabulary diminishing.</cite>\r\n\r\nEroding?
    Dictionaries still add many new words every year\u2014mcjob (noun) and google
    (verb) are great examples that have even lead to legal action. Vocabularies are
    not diminishing, they are changing. Readers in Milton\u2019s time probably had
    as much trouble with Chaucer as readers now do Milton or Chaucer, and so on. This
    is not because vocabularies have diminished, it is because civilization has changed
    and language has changed to reflect that. \r\n\r\n<cite>Loosing variety of cultures
    = bad</cite>\r\n<cite>I am in favor of diversity of thought and expression.</cite>\r\n\r\nDiversity
    and variety are not spices that can just be tossed around to enliven and enlighten.
    If they can not remain relevant on their own, they are of little use to almost
    everyone. I do agree that diverse ideas are important, but not that said ideas
    are dependent on language or culture. There will still be an unending supply of
    new ideas, no matter how few languages we have."
  created: '2007-09-21 02:51:24'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>It\u2019s not that</em> many <em>languages are good, but that some languages
    (some verbal, some written) offer lexicons that inherently carry perceptions not
    found in any other language.</em>\r\n\r\nWell put, Norbert -- couldn't agree with
    you more. And as a speaker of two languages, I believe that certain languages
    lend themselves to certain thought structures better than others. Variety is the
    spice of life, as they say -- it's a shame when languages, and therefore cultures,
    die a lonely death.\r\n\r\nBy the way, there is a book called <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Spoken-Here-Travels-Threatened-Languages/dp/0618565833/ref=pd_bbs_sr_1/103-2191335-9013416?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1190344772&sr=1-1\"><em>Spoken
    Here</em></a>, published a few years ago, that covers this topic."
  created: '2007-09-21 04:23:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The Welsh philosopher Rush Rhees referred to languages as 'records of ways
    of living that have meant something'. Languages come out of meaning, out of the
    significance that people have found worth giving name and structure, and when
    they die we lose the record of that meaning. Sometimes, it seems there is a temptation
    to thrust language loss into a kind of crude dialectic, in which the cultural
    loss is set against the positive material gains associated with speaking major
    regional and trade languages instead of minority local languages. This seems to
    me very unfortunate, because we should be able to appreciate those positive gains
    while also understanding the nature of the loss. There seems very little that
    can be done to prevent the death of most languages. A few, like Welsh might struggle
    back from the brink on account of particular regional legislative advantages;
    certainly, a lot more Welsh seems to be spoken in Wales today than was when I
    was growing up there. There are indications that local effort can preserve and
    renew languages when people care sufficiently about their heritage, as seems to
    be happening with Cornish. And there is always the spectacular example of modern
    Hebrew: the resurrection and reformation of a language that had no native speakers
    for the better part of two thousand years.\r\n\r\nBut for thousands of languages
    that will pass out of existence, there is little anyone can do but try to make
    some record of them, which is the job of linguists, and to bear witness to their
    loss, which is the job of poets:\r\n\r\n<strong>The Last Man to Speak Ubykh</strong>\r\nby
    John Burnside\r\n\r\n<em>The linguist Ole Stig Andersen was keen to seek out the
    remaining traces of a West Caucasian language called Ubykh. Having heard that
    there was one remaining speaker he set out to find the man and arrived at his
    village on 8 October 1992. The man had died a few hours earlier.</em>\r\n\r\nAt
    times, in those last few months,\r\nhe would think of a word\r\nand he had to
    remember the tree, or species of frog,\r\n\r\nthe sound denoted:\r\nthe tree itself,
    or the frog, or the state of mind\r\nand not the equivalent word in another language,\r\n\r\nthe
    speech that had taken his sons\r\nand the mountain light;\r\nthe graves he swept
    and raked; the wedding songs.\r\n\r\nWhile years of silence gathered in the heat,\r\nhe
    stood in his yard and whispered the name of a bird\r\nin his mother tongue,\r\n\r\nwhile
    memories of snow and market days,\r\nhis father\u2019s hands, the smell of tamarind,\r\ninklings
    of milk and blood on a sunlit floor\r\n\r\nreceded in the names no longer used:\r\nthe
    blue of childhood folded like a sheet\r\nand tucked away.\r\n\r\nNothing he said
    was remembered; nothing he did\r\nwas fact or legend\r\nin the village square,\r\n\r\nyet
    later they would memorise the word\r\nhe spoke that morning, just before he died;\r\nthe
    word for death, perhaps, or meadow grass,\r\n\r\nor swimming to the surface of
    his mind,\r\nthat other word they used, when he was young,\r\nfor all they knew
    that nobody remembered. \r\n"
  created: '2007-09-21 06:00:58'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: "James Puckett's \"unpopular soap box\" is more popular than he imagines.
    \ It's an honest opinion, held without malice by millions of good people around
    the world.  As a linguist, I want to explain why I hold a different opinion.\r\n\r\nWhen
    languages die, and especially when they die having never been described in any
    detail, linguists feel a real sense of irretrievable loss.  We care so much because
    our understanding of language is limited to the languages we can study, and it
    never fails that when new languages are studied, noteworthy observations emerge.
    \ Some languages are so different from what we are used to that they violate some
    of our most basic linguistic or cognitive hypotheses.  Indigenous languages are
    often this way.\r\n\r\nThe language faculty is one of the defining attributes
    of our species.  A language is the product of complex cognition and social interaction
    over the course of long periods of time.  Virtually every member of society contributes.
    \ When a language is lost, along with it are lost the unique system of mechanisms
    that made it function, mechanisms that hold important clues to who we are, how
    we are \"wired\", and what our cognitive limits are; mechanisms that were centuries,
    even millenia, in the making.  You can't reproduce these things in a lab.  It's
    true that language will continue to evolve, and perhaps similar linguistic systems
    will reappear at some point in the future.  But even in the unlikely even that
    such a time comes, you and I and untold future generations will have already passed
    on.\r\n\r\nWhat is alarming about current trends in language endangerment is not
    the fact that it happens but the rate at which languages are disappearing.  It's
    true that throughout history languages have died out (as, for example, Etruscan),
    but most languages have just evolved into other languages (as, for example, Latin,
    which survives today as French, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Romanian, and others).
    \ Until recent times it hasn't been the case that such a large percentage of the
    world's languages were destined to be superceded--by a handful of replacement
    languages which, in large part, happen to be related to each other.  In many parts
    of the world, the past few decades have seen a political climate change toward
    social justice for indigenous groups (a very recent example is a declaration on
    indigenous rights passed last week by the United Nations).  But these conciliatory
    actions are rarely able to repair the damage of decades or centuries of linguistic
    repression.  You can't bludgeon someone to the point of death, then apologize
    and expect them to recover.\r\n\r\nThe price we pay for our predecessors' shortsightedness
    is the loss of some of the most beautiful things mankind ever produced, and along
    with them, the lost chance for a much more complete understanding of one of our
    most human dimensions.\r\n\r\nThe least we can do is mourn the loss."
  created: '2007-09-21 23:45:11'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "This is for Mr. Puckett.\r\n\r\n\"Don't you see that the whole aim of Newspeak
    is to narrow the range of thought?\u2026 Has it ever occurred to your, Winston,
    that by the year 2050, at the very latest, not a single human being will be alive
    who could understand such a conversation as we are having now?\u2026The whole
    climate of thought will be different. In fact, there will be no thought, as we
    understand it now. Orthodoxy means not thinking\u2014not needing to think. Orthodoxy
    is unconsciousness.\" \u2014Syme, pp 46-47, from 1984 by George Orwell."
  created: '2007-09-22 01:54:10'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "It's hard for me to understand where you're coming from James, a spiritual
    desire to deconstruct the Tower of Babel, a philosophical agenda to make order
    in the world, or perhaps something else.\r\n\r\nIs it possible to explain a little
    further?\r\n\r\nLanguages are indeed malleable.\r\n\r\n\"Things were better before\".\r\n\r\npbc\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-22 03:27:49'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Kris... thanks for that quote from <em>1984</em>.
  created: '2007-09-22 05:15:26'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>...a spiritual desire to deconstruct the Tower of Babel...</cite>\r\n\r\nAfter
    a fashion. While there is a tremendous promise in the individual mind, some of
    which is doubtlessly lost as languages wither, I see greater promise in the rapid
    communication offered by a world with fewer barriers to it. I once heard an anecdote
    about an old Frank Herbert story concerning a group of astronauts who were packed
    into a special craft in which they were to travel to the end of space and turn
    on a machine. Upon arriving at the end of space the astronauts activated the machine,
    it turned out to be a self aware super computer, carrying with it the entirety
    of human knowledge. With an ability to rapidly process said knowledge in parallel,
    the computer near-immediately elevated to godhood. \r\n\r\nI see mankind as living
    on the edge of something similar. Nanotechnology is a reality, genetic engineering
    is a reality, fusion research is making (slow) progress, and access to and sharing
    of information now exist on an awesome scale. The developments laying before us
    are going to reshape human existence in ways we cannot begin to fathom. Humans
    are on the path to an amazing future, with billions of new years of evolutions
    in front of us. In some short span most of what got us to that point will likely
    be irrelevant, superseded, and made to appear hopelessly tiny and homogeneous
    in the face of whatever appears next. \r\n\r\nTo me that promise smells like a
    big tasty omelette. If some cultural eggs must be cracked to get it, I say go
    for it. Weep for them if you must, but realize that standing in the way of change
    is standing in the path of a tornado."
  created: '2007-09-22 05:35:33'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Humans are on the path to an amazing future, with billions of new years
    of evolutions in front of us.</em>\r\n\r\nMaybe. But not if we destroy ourselves,
    and the conditions for life on this planet. Billions of years? I seriously doubt
    it. In a way, I envy your optimism.\r\n\r\n<em>Nanotechnology is a reality, genetic
    engineering is a reality...</em>\r\n\r\nThese realities, as you call them, are
    in their infancy. And with these scary technologies comes great responsibility,
    which I doubt humanity can handle. See above.\r\n\r\n<em>Upon arriving at the
    end of space the astronauts activated the machine, it turned out to be a self
    aware super computer, carrying with it the entirety of human knowledge.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    bet it was all in English."
  created: '2007-09-22 09:39:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"These realities, (g.e. and nanotech), as you call them, are in their infancy.\"\r\nWell,
    not all of them. The genetic engineering of Maize e.g. happened in languages that
    have since disappeared so we don't understand it anymore, but it's hardly in its
    infancy no matter what monsanto says. :-o\r\n\r\n\"...most languages have just
    evolved into other languages (as, for example, Latin...\" I think this is not
    true.  Some die and leave a few words and others feed into another, but most of
    the languages no longer spoken here did in fact die without a trace, either written
    or spoken.\r\n\r\nAnd then there is the fact that Khipu couldn't be much more
    dead but you can still find over 100,000 link's to the Inkas. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-09-22 12:42:24'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "James.\r\n\r\nYou\u2019ve watched way too much Star Trek.\r\n\r\nAnd Malewich
    should be understood in his (long gone) historical context, I think."
  created: '2007-09-22 14:24:59'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>The genetic engineering of Maize e.g. happened in languages that have
    since disappeared so we don\u2019t understand it anymore, but it\u2019s hardly
    in its infancy no matter what monsanto says.</em>\r\n\r\nGood point, David. I
    guess I was thinking more in terms of humans genetically modifying, or creating
    genetically engineered, humans -- that one is still certainly in its early stages,
    barring any secret experiments now taking place in an underground lab somewhere."
  created: '2007-09-22 19:02:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Weep for them if you must</em>\r\n\r\n\"Engineered\" by communities in
    a way that linguists, working to construct artificial languages, would find impossible,
    those languages arose over millennia in unique social circumstances that can never
    be fully understood or duplicated. That program would be impossible to run. If
    not for any intrinsic valuable, they are human resources that hold value for the
    future--in the way that species of plants which are becoming extinct may contain
    medicinal value. New languages take a long time to create, and those evolving
    in a connected world are unlikely to have as much special value as the languages
    being lost.\r\n\r\nSure, we have an ever-expanding vocabulary, but that's not
    the same thing as language.\r\n\r\nOf course, it is not possible to preserve all
    the past. As with buildings, new uses must be found to keep them alive. \r\n\r\nYes,
    diverse peoples can communicate with shared language, but it's also important
    for diversity to be able to tell your own stories in your own language, or else
    we become Borg. \"When I went to school in Olympia..."
  created: '2007-09-22 20:38:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "James: <em>To me that promise smells like a big tasty omelette. If some cultural
    eggs must be cracked to get it, I say go for it. Weep for them if you must, but
    realize that standing in the way of change is standing in the path of a tornado.</em>\r\n\r\n\"A
    Klee painting named \u2018Angelus Novus\u2019 shows an angel looking as though
    he is about to move away from something he is fixedly contemplating. His eyes
    are staring, his mouth is open, his wings are spread. This is how one pictures
    the angel of history. His face is turned toward the past. Where we perceive a
    chain of events, he sees one single catastrophe which keeps piling wreckage and
    hurls it in front of his feet. The angel would like to stay, awaken the dead,
    and make whole what has been smashed. But a storm is blowing in from Paradise;
    it has got caught in his wings with such a violence that the angel can no longer
    close them. The storm irresistibly propels him into the future to which his back
    is turned, while the pile of debris before him grows skyward. This storm is what
    we call progress.\" -- Walter Benjamin"
  created: '2007-09-22 20:47:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>New languages take a long time to create, and those evolving in
    a connected world are unlikely to have as much special value as the languages
    being lost.</em>\r\n\r\nActually, new languages don't take very long to create
    in the right environment, which is usually one in which people from different
    linguistic groups are thrown together by material necessity and have to find a
    way to communicate. If there is already a dominant regional or trade language,
    they will usually adopt that, but may bring to it vocabulary from their own language.
    But more remarkable is the phenomenon by which a pidgin, i.e. a crude collection
    of mutually understood words from different languages with minimal grammar, becomes
    a creole, i.e. a fully functional, grammatically sophisticated language, within
    a single generation of native speakers. It is generally thought that this process
    occurs when the children of speakers of a pidgin start to speak to each other:
    they instinctively develop a grammatical structure. Which is pretty remarkable
    when you think about it.\r\n\r\nWhat does take a long time is for a language to
    develop a richness of expression: the ability to say something in multiple ways
    with different nuances, or to say one thing and to suggest multiple meanings."
  created: '2007-09-22 21:03:02'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "If the idea is for everyone to end up speaking English, we're in deep doo-doo.
    For evidence of same, you need look no further than a brief review of <em>Buttering
    Turnips, Twocking Chavs</em>, which appeared in the Times Literary Supplement
    a month or so ago.\r\n\r\nAmong the many vagaries of English, the book in question
    points out several words in English which have contradictory meanings, e.g.,...\r\n<ul><li>when
    you say <strong>cleave</strong>, do you mean \"stick together\" or \"break apart\"?</li>\r\n<li>when
    you say <strong>clip</strong>, do you mean \"cut\" or \"fasten\"?</li>\r\n<li>when
    you say <strong>fast</strong>, do you mean \"fixed\" or \"moving\"?</li>\r\n<li>when
    you say <strong>left</strong>, do you mean \"gone\" or \"remaining\"?</li>\r\n<li>when
    you say <strong>sanction</strong>, do you mean \"approve\" or \"ban\"?</li>\r\n<li>when
    you say <strong>screen</strong>, you you mean \"show\" or \"conceal\"?</li>\r\n<li>when
    you say <strong>weather</strong>, do you mean \"withstand\" or \"wear away\"?</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nNuance
    is one thing; confusion is quite another. Before we embark on a campaign of linguistic
    imperialism, we need to get our own house in order first..."
  created: '2007-09-22 23:40:58'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>If the idea is for everyone to end up speaking English, we\u2019re
    in deep doo-doo.</cite>\r\n\r\nI doubt it would ever come to that. I am sure that
    there will be some point where almost everyone speaks one common language, and
    plenty of local languages abound, but there are just too many people in too many
    places for one language to take over <em>and</em> wipe out the others.\r\n\r\nAnd
    for the record, if we do all end up speaking one language, I would hope people
    would pick one that makes sense and avoid English. "
  created: '2007-09-23 00:11:59'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Better start studying Chinese then. That should make for a nice Open Type
    project.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-09-23 02:34:18'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: "<cite>most of the languages no longer spoken here did in fact die without
    a trace, either written or spoken.<cite>\r\n\r\nI suppose it's impossible to quantify
    dead languages, especially ones we are totally unaware of.  When you start to
    say that Latin is a \"language no longer spoken here\" but that, for example,
    15th century English is a \"language still spoken here,\" you begin to draw boundaries
    that make such numbers lose all meaning anyway.\r\n\r\nThe more relevant point
    for this discussion is that the 21st century will witness language death on an
    unprecedented scale.  The Summer Institute of Linguistics' Ethnologue estimates
    that there were about 6900 living languages as of 2005 (during the 1990's Michael
    Krauss stated the number as roughly 6000, plus or minus maybe 10% depending on
    how you distinguish \"languages\" from \"dialects\").  The UNESCO Ad Hoc Expert
    Group on Endangered Languages in 2003 provided the following statistics:\r\n\r\n*
    about 97% of the world's population speak about 4% of the world's languages\r\n*
    about 3% of the world's population speak about 96% of the world's languages\r\n*
    at least 50% of the world's languages are losing speakers\r\n* by their estimate,
    90% of the world's languages may be replaced by dominant languages by the end
    of the 21st century.\r\n\r\n(See http://portal.unesco.org/culture/en/ev.php-URL_ID=9105&URL_DO=DO_TOPIC&URL_SECTION=201.html)\r\n\r\nI'll
    admit I'm dubious about that last estimate; surely it's a near worst-case scenario--although
    you can imagine that the best realistic case will still be quite grim.  It's also
    true that, as John mentioned, new languages (specifically, creoles) can crop up
    relatively quickly due to contact phenomena; and it's also likely that today's
    dominant languages will continue to evolve and eventually diversify into varieties
    so different that we would classify them as separate languages.  These languages
    which do not yet exist will also give us valuable insights.  But (and I don't
    mean to suggest that John or anyone else suggests otherwise) they are highly unlikely
    to represent the full range of typological features (the grammatical and phonetic
    attributes we use for structural [as opposed to historical] comparison and classification
    of languages) which will be lost as today's endangered languages disappear."
  created: '2007-09-23 09:38:42'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Today's <em>New York Times</em> expands on the National Geographic post:\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/23/weekinreview/23word.html?_r=1&ref=weekinreview&oref=slogin\">Vigil
    for the Vanishing Tongue</a>"
  created: '2007-09-23 19:17:15'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "I think it's a slight bit of travesty in the least that we're losing languages
    at such an alarming rate. But to be honest, it's not that unbelievable.I also
    disagree with the motion that the death of a language won't mean the death of
    a culture, or part of it. For a lot of these smaller languages, everything is
    an oral tradition. Who is going to translate that and pass it on, and in a new
    language that will certainly not capture the details as well. \r\n\r\nGrowing
    up in the DRC, I spoke a tribal dialect, it's roots are in a larger language,
    so it will probably not die out too fast, but in the Congo alone there were more
    than 250 tribal languages. I spoke briefly with a masters student that was studying
    tribal dialects in the sub Sahara at Harvard and she'd never heard of the dialect
    however.\r\n\r\nI also spent a month working in the Bolivian highlands where Spanish
    is the 3rd language in the pecking order. It's interesting, because the older
    generations are not interested in learning Spanish, and there's a lot of lingering
    resentment that as festered for generations towards Spanish and everything that
    came with it. However, their kids, and the kids themselves see Spanish as a way
    for them to get jobs and move of of the small villages in the mountains. It creates
    a language gap where Quechua and Aymara, even as the competing official languages,
    will be weeded out in the outskirts\u2026 all for the sake of progress, and tradition
    will lose out. \r\n\r\nWorking in Canada's North right now, there's a real sense
    of traditional values and languages, and the clash with the modern living styles
    and English. Illiteracy is very high here, and even working on documents for native
    governments, English is the first language, and then the native languages, and
    not everything will be translated over. So even if you can read your own tongue,
    you won't be able to read the entire document. \r\n\r\nMy wife is Metis and grew
    up speaking French and English, and as trilingual speaker now, she still has trouble
    finding the right English words at times. I have the same problem coming back
    to Canada from the Congo \u2013 English is not as wonderful and expressive as
    people would like to make it out to be. Sure it has a lot of words, but it doesn't
    mean you're saying a lot. \r\n\r\nDictionaries are subject to those that edit
    them and the beginning of the Webster dictionary is a great example of aiming
    to push 'simple english', as some would call it, with the eventual inclusion on
    words like \"ain't\". I hardly see them as the definitive rule of language to
    which we should hold standards to."
  created: '2007-09-24 05:17:09'
- author:
    name: ffetish
  body: "It's been a few years since I read up on this topic. But I seem to recall
    a demonstrable connection between linguistic diversity (that is, indeed, cultural
    diversity) and biological diversity (biodiversity). In other words: modern, western,
    scientific systems for categorizing (describing, classifying, labelling) natural
    phenomena are essentially reductive, with profound (and yes, dire) extra-linguistic
    (and extra-human) consequences. Or so the argument - a good one, as far as I can
    recall - goes. Like all utopias, the fantasy world of pure communication envisioned
    by James Puckett is, I fear, one that would be purchased at too high a price -
    biologically, culturally, psychologically, &c.\r\n\r\nI couldn't agree more with
    the comments above regarding \"linguistic imperialism\" and the myriad varieties
    of English experience. Only, in my opinion, puns, metaphors, and other tokens
    of linguistic ambiguity are to be cherished, nourished, preserved for their own
    sake, but also because of the reasons hinted at in the preceding paragraph. I
    gather that Puckett, on the contrary, would - sooner or later - have us burn our
    Joyce and our Pynchon, ad infinitum. And read & write exclusively Esperanto. \r\n\r\nNow,
    what would the design equivalent of that be? "
  created: '2007-09-24 11:45:24'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "^that's a good point.\r\n\r\nBringing Change into the discussion makes a
    mess of it. Preserving language can be viewed as changing the natural course of
    things.\r\n\r\nClearly we have an anthropocentric bias, save a few misanthropes
    that would argue that the elimination of the species would be a welcom change.\r\n\r\nIf
    a group in South America knows the forrest and what plants are worth looking at
    we might do well to record what they know, which would probably involve learning
    their language."
  created: '2007-09-24 14:42:03'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Now, what would the design equivalent of that be?</em>\r\n\r\nHelvetica
    everywhere you turn?  ;-D"
  created: '2007-09-24 14:57:16'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: 'We are getting there Ricardo. Stephen Banham of the Letterbox in Australia
    did some research on that in the central business district and the numbers are
    shocking: Over 50% of the typefaces used on signage and logos were Helvetica (That''s
    besides all the arial instances;-)'
  created: '2007-09-24 22:57:18'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I gather that Puckett, on the contrary, would - sooner or later - have
    us burn our Joyce and our Pynchon, ad infinitum. And read & write exclusively
    Esperanto.</cite>\r\n\r\nI never wrote anything <em>remotely</em> of that sort.
    I stated that I believe scientific progress is likely to be sped up by a world
    with fewer communication barriers, to the benefit of all people. I never stated
    that anyone should be forced to stop speaking anything, or that a monoglot civilization
    is a utopia to strive for. \r\n\r\nTo reiterate my previous point: change is good,
    change is normal, and the death of languages is a good sign that things are proceeding
    along exactly as they have been and should be. That we may reap some extra benefits
    from this is an especially nice side effect."
  created: '2007-09-24 23:06:51'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>Actually, new languages don\u2019t take very long to create in the
    right environment, which is usually one in which people from different linguistic
    groups are thrown together by material necessity and have to find a way to communicate.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    seems to be true of <a href=\"http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/main.jhtml?xml=/news/2007/09/16/wenglish116.xml\">Indian
    English</a>. The <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indian_English\">Wikipedia
    article</a> is also pretty interesting. They adopt English to standardize and
    immediately start messing with it. My head is paining at the thought of trying
    to carry a conversation. "
  created: '2007-09-24 23:27:13'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>To reiterate my previous point: change is good, change is normal, and
    the death of languages is a good sign that things are proceeding along exactly
    as they have been and should be. That we may reap some extra benefits from this
    is an especially nice side effect.<cite/>\r\n\r\nMaybe what you are missing is
    that information goes away with the languages. Scientists can always find a way
    to publish and translate, but when the last remaining members of a culture go
    away and take the language with them all the cultural information of that society
    is lost. We won't even have the chance to evaluate whether we think it has value
    or not\u2014scientific or otherwise."
  created: '2007-09-24 23:32:26'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>...information goes away with the languages...We won\u2019t even have
    the chance to evaluate whether we think it has value or not\u2014scientific or
    otherwise.</cite>\r\n\r\nAgreed. But given the amount of information mankind discovers
    and stores, and that there is always a limit to our capacity to preserve it, especially
    as said information becomes esoteric or simply hard to gather from those who hold
    it, such a loss is an inevitable part of the passage of time. For mankind to preserve
    all these things that are being lost would require us to direct a great deal of
    resources away from all of the new stuff going on, and that would break the circle
    of life and whatnot.\r\n\r\nInterestingly, I am seeing a parallel between this
    and <a href=\"http://www.bestlifeonline.com/cms/publish/health-fitness/Could_He_Live_to_2150.shtml\">some
    interesting research about slowing aging via drugs</a>. Some scientists believe
    that the lifespans of animals are related to the predators in their environments,
    and that animals more likely to be eaten devote far more energy to reproducing
    quickly than to repairing their own cells, and thus age much faster. Conversely,
    those animals that have few or no natural predators have much more time to spew
    their seed into the local gene pool, and thus devote more energy to self-preservation
    and live longer lives. Perhaps we will one day reach such a point as a society,
    when so many of the menial tasks of life have been automated and resources have
    been made so plentiful that we can devote all the time we want to preserving,
    examining, and learning from the past."
  created: '2007-09-24 23:56:27'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Try it this way\u2014preserving languages and cultural knowledge IS the new
    stuff going on. We may be pissing away a cure for cancer or else while making
    a cool new video game controller. Capitalism doesn't always direct the funding
    where it should, and we shouldn't misunderestimate the work scientists are doing
    to document and understand what other people on the planet have already discovered.\r\n\r\nApply
    your logic to global warming for me. Your ideas about change presume a state of
    rest or nonaction that is nothing more than an idea\u2014it doesn't really exist.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-25 00:21:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>We may be pissing away a cure for cancer or else while making a cool
    new video game controller.</cite>\r\n\r\nC'est la vie.\r\n\r\n<cite>Capitalism
    doesn\u2019t always direct the funding where it should...</cite>\r\n\r\nActually
    it does, at least from the viewpoint of a capitalist. \r\n\r\n<cite>Apply your
    logic to global warming for me.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt happens, but may not currently
    be inevitable. Halting it would be nice, although it seems highly unlikely to
    happen given that the majority of mankind lives in poverty and has other things
    to worry about.\r\n\r\n<cite>Your ideas about change presume a state of rest or
    nonaction</cite>\r\n\r\nQuite the opposite. My ideas about change presume that
    there is <em>no such thing</em>, at least not above zero degrees kelvin. "
  created: '2007-09-25 00:55:41'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: "<em>change is good, change is normal, and the death of languages is a good
    sign that things are proceeding along exactly as they have been and should be.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    can agree that good things come from language change and that there is such a
    thing as natural language change.  But language death is rarely a natural consequence
    of linguistic evolution, and it really is not the case that any and all change
    is good.\r\n\r\nThe decline of Alaska's native languages has not been natural
    in any sense of the word.  It has come about as generations of children received
    corporal punishment for speaking their native languages and were repeatedly told
    that their languages were worthless and inferior to English.  A common misconception
    is that indigenous people weigh the pros and cons of abandoning their languages
    and pick the language of wider communication of their own free will.  The truth
    is that they \"choose\" to switch under great duress from oppressive (post-)colonial
    societies.  Language death usually follows repressive practices by the group whose
    language is ultimately adopted.  I can't view the end result of egregious human
    rights violations as evidence that things are proceeding as they should be.\r\n\r\n<em>scientific
    progress is likely to be sped up by a world with fewer communication barriers,
    to the benefit of all people.</em>\r\n\r\nScience rarely benefits all people equally.
    \ Technology has done a great deal throughout history to increase the discrepancy
    between the \"haves\" and the \"have nots\".  I doubt that the indigenous peoples
    whose languages are lost will be among the primary beneficiaries of whatever future
    scientific advancement could be attributed to the loss of their languages.\r\n\r\nI'd
    like to know specifically how the mass death of minority languages is supposed
    to lead to scientific progress.  Most members of the dominant American society
    don't give Native Americans the time of day, let alone take the necessary steps
    to give them a seat at the table where they could contribute to scientific progress.
    \ The ability to communicate more widely within the United States is already a
    reality, but it hasn't led to the kind of dialogue that will move anyone or anything
    forward."
  created: '2007-09-25 01:52:07'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I can agree that good things come from language change and that there
    is such a thing as natural language change.\r\n*snip*\r\nI can\u2019t view the
    end result of egregious human rights violations as evidence that things are proceeding
    as they should be.</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m not passing judgment in favor of what
    got people to this point. You are right\u2014a lot of horrible things happened\u2014and
    are still happening\u2014that created the situations that wiped out a lot of cultures.
    But for some reason, and perhaps I\u2019m just delusional, when I look at the
    big wheel churning, I sometimes see the good things that arise from it all instead
    of dwelling on all the nightmares that pop up every time it rolls around. It seems
    that the volume of atrocity rises every generation, but somehow, good things come
    up along the way too, and I want to believe that eventually the volume on the
    good side will hit 11 and finally drown out the bad side."
  created: '2007-09-25 05:01:53'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Perhaps we will one day reach such a point as a society, when so many
    of the menial tasks of life have been automated...</em>\r\n\r\nOh, you mean menial
    tasks like work?  ;-)\r\n\r\n<em>...and resources have been made so plentiful...</em>\r\n\r\nYeah,
    like that'll ever happen. Look at the history of our species: we piss away natural
    resources to make money, the ecology be damned! We have the capacity to transform
    nature to create tools and technology, but we're too dumb to think about the long-term
    consequences of depeleting our limited natural resources.\r\n\r\n<em>Halting it
    [global warming] would be nice, although it seems highly unlikely to happen given
    that the majority of mankind lives in poverty and has other things to worry about</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    would be more than \"nice,\" James -- it's imperative, and probably too late to
    be completely averted. Read <em>Field Notes from a Catastrophe</em>. Global warming
    won't be halted by poor people, or even you and me. It has to be a political decision
    made by those in power -- i.e., businesses, and the governments they  support."
  created: '2007-09-25 05:05:22'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: James, I hope you are right.  There's little we can do about the past, so
    here's to a more enlightened future.
  created: '2007-09-25 05:40:29'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Oh, you mean menial tasks like work?</cite>\r\n\r\nNot all work is
    menial. It\u2019s been a long time since I did work that I would ever toss into
    that category. \r\n\r\n<cite>...but we\u2019re too dumb to think about the long-term
    consequences of depeleting our limited natural resources...</cite>\r\n\r\nBut
    that\u2019s changing, albeit slowly. And our resources aren\u2019t as limited
    as most people think, it\u2019s just our tendency to not re-use most of them that\u2019s
    stupid.\r\n\r\n<cite>It would be more than \u201Cnice,\u201D James...</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    know that, but I don\u2019t want to get emphatic about it and send things off-topic
    into a thread about environmentalism and regulation. "
  created: '2007-09-25 05:57:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "James: <em>scientific progress is likely to be sped up by a world with fewer
    communication barriers, to the benefit of all people.</em>\r\n\r\nMost of the
    world's scientists already speak a common language (English), so the 'communication
    barriers' they face tend to be political, technological, financial, etc., not
    due to an inability to understand each other."
  created: '2007-09-25 06:06:37'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Not all work is menial.</em>\r\n\r\nI was being sarcastic, James, hence
    the ;-) after my remark. I was talking about the tendency of new technologies
    to replace old jobs. I was thinking, \"How will we all make a living, feed and
    clothe ourselves, etc., when all the jobs are gone?\" The banks and phone companies
    and subway systems are automating and going online to get rid of their workers
    and pay less money, after all."
  created: '2007-09-25 15:19:11'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Most of the world\u2019s scientists already speak a common language
    (English)</cite>\r\n\r\nGood point."
  created: '2007-09-25 15:23:57'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> the death of languages is a good sign \r\n\r\nI guess you didn't see that:\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bloomberg.com/apps/news?pid=email_en&refer=exclusive&sid=aMIDIGeScPZg\">Microsoft
    Speaks Romansch to Boost Dying Swiss Tongue</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-25 20:10:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "James, another stick to give your idea the beats.\r\nThe premise that a commonality
    of media is inherently efficient seems to be flawed -- at some point the returns
    dimish to the extent that communication is too dull to bother with. It is the
    stimulus of difference that creates interest and meaning.\r\n\r\nFor an example
    in the most hard-nosed of arenas -- finance -- consider European Monetary Union.
    This was touted as a great stimulus to increased economic activity, due to less
    red tape and overheads. But that dividend hasn't arrived, and the Euro has had
    little effect in juicing Europe's economy.\r\n \r\n"
  created: '2007-09-28 17:26:38'
date: '2007-09-20 23:25:02'
node_type: forum
title: Native languages are dying out

---
