---
author:
  name: David Sudweeks
  picture: 112594
body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/G 45-90_5373.gif]\r\n<cite>The same glyph
  done with curves whose handles extend [1] at 45&deg; and 90&deg; angles; and [2]
  the way that felt good at the time.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm new to digital type design.
  The above is in Illustrator. Could I get the advice of somebody with a lot of bezier
  curve experience on what works best for them? I'm open to even the most upbraiding
  comments, including <cite>'Don't do it in Illustrator'</cite>. (Maybe you could
  do even better.) I took some time to create outlines of some famous type and look
  at it, but it seemed so full of anchor points."
comments:
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "Illustrator is Fun, FontLab is Gun.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-22 20:13:36'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Generally, you want to use as few control points as possible. Too many points
    makes it hard to get a smooth, flowing line on a long curve. Too few points restricts
    the possible path the curve can follow. \r\n\r\nIf you are intending to create
    fonts, it's good to get into the habit of placing points at the \"extrema\" locations
    on curves, which are points that are on the extreme left, right, top, and bottom
    of a curve. On a circle, these would be at clock points 12, 3, 6, and 9. Another
    way to think of it is, if you put a rectangle around the curve just large enough
    for the curve to fit, the points where the curve touches the rectangle are the
    extrema points. Extrema points are mostly needed for hinting to work properly
    in fonts."
  created: '2007-09-22 20:33:06'
- author:
    name: David Sudweeks
    picture: 112594
  body: "I'll give it a shot.\r\n\r\n[edit: pardon the unintentional pun]"
  created: '2007-09-22 20:34:11'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>If you are intending to create fonts, it\u2019s good to get into the
    habit of placing points at the \u201Cextrema\u201D locations on curves,(...)</em>\r\n\r\nAnd
    try to keep the control handles mostly vertical and horizontal. There are exeptions,
    but for smooth curves, straight handles are important.\r\n\r\nAlso important;
    if there are two vectors with a curve in between, try to make both handles 'carry'
    the curve equally."
  created: '2007-09-22 20:48:49'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "There\u2019s an excellent chapter about this in Leslie Cabarga\u2019s book
    <em>The Logo, Font, and Lettering Bible.</em>"
  created: '2007-09-22 20:59:40'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>> And try to keep the control handles mostly vertical and horizontal.
    There are exeptions, but for smooth curves, straight handles are important.</em>\r\n\r\nRight,
    by definition, if the points are on the extrema, the control handles will be either
    perfectly vertical or perfectly horizontal (assuming it's not a corner). Note
    that if you're just working in Illustrator or something similar, it doesn't generally
    matter."
  created: '2007-09-22 21:57:11'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Yeah, but you can always pull one of them in another direction, especially
    in Illustrator. Which will result in bumpy curves.\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-23 00:06:19'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I certainly agree with Mark about point placement, but the thing I find most
    interesting about the example is how lousy the resulting artwork looks. Whatever
    your philosophy of point placement is, the outlines created did follow the analog
    artwork with a fair degree of accuracy but the results are less than ideal. It
    may be what the analog artwork actually looks like, but in the realm of digital
    outlines, it disappoints. There is a difference between digital and analog art,
    and slavishly following an analog original, will not give you what you want.\r\n\r\nBut
    then again, most analog art is flawed, and deeply so, when it comes to translating
    it to digital outlines, and it relies on the skilled interpreter to render it
    in a pleasing form in the digital realm, regardless of what the analog original
    actually looks like.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2007-09-23 03:04:35'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Good point.\r\n\r\nWhen I look back at my early bezier drawings I can't believe
    how bad I was, even though I was skilled at doing the same thing with traditional
    tools. The only cure seems to be time and practice."
  created: '2007-09-23 04:15:56'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "Good advice here, I'd say. I'll just elaborate a little:\r\n\r\nRelated to
    hinting benefit, having points at extrema also helps with design by making it
    easier to keep sidebearings and stem widths predictable. At some point during
    typeface development, you'll run into some reason to care about the bounding box
    of a glyph, and if it's being determined by a curve rather than a point, it will
    be difficult to adjust.\r\n\r\nThat being said, I've been told a few times that
    points at extrema are less useful in italic and script faces, because the stems
    are not vertical. (Of course there are still horizontal stems.) And there's no
    need to get overzealous about it in the small details. The rounded end of a protruding
    serif probably doesn't need an extra point there.\r\n\r\nIt helps to have a general
    understanding about how PostScript lines are drawn. Just like Mark, I'm a little
    embarrassed by some of the constructions I did ten years ago; back then I though
    of a single point and its two control handles as an element, whereas PostScript
    sees two points and the line and control handles in between as an element. If
    you can get a bit of that embedded in the back of your mind, you'll make better
    decisions about where to put things.\r\n\r\nIf you are designing multiple master
    outlines, all of this advice becomes more important. Having a simple, disciplined
    approach to outline construction will help with interpolations.\r\n\r\n(You'll
    want to remove that overlapping path eventually, too -- but maybe you knew that
    already!)"
  created: '2007-09-24 08:44:29'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: ">There is a difference between digital and analog art, and slavishly following
    an analog original, will not give you what you want.\r\n\r\nOh yes, there is a
    great difference!\r\nAnd in the first time in the history of human culture people
    are convinced to have found something within the computers and bezi\xE9r curves
    that could equal or even do better than analog form like the one we see in the
    nature before our feet (as long there will be left some) We can\u2019t and never
    will. Dante even before Renaissance age did know that.\r\nAnalog form will always
    be superior to any kind of mathematical constructed curve because it reflects
    the face of god and his creation.\r\nI design digital typefaces for 15 years now
    and I still love to do it. But that doesn\u2019t change what has to be said about
    it.\r\n\r\n;-)\r\nStefan"
  created: '2007-09-24 20:54:15'
- author:
    name: David Sudweeks
    picture: 112594
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/G 45-90 001_4572.gif]\r\nThanks to all
    for your helpful advice. In any of the past projects I've done, it's just taken
    a lot of work. I'll keep working. Here's a (in my opinion, improved and not so
    clumsy-looking) version of the same glyph. Outlines are of the glyph without and
    with points at the extrema. I did have a lot of trouble doing an outline with
    just horizontal and vertical handles. I guess the main reason why I reject it
    is just because of the /ax/es/ of the glyphs in this case. I know I'm a novice.
    I have spent hundreds of hours with bezier curves, (not tens of thousands as you
    probably have) but it feels wrong to try to do that (in this specific case).\r\n\r\nThe
    last outline I decided to throw in for conversation. It's Hoefler Text's italic
    Q. I noticed the points at the extrema, but what interest me are the many points
    that just seem unnecessary. Is that how it was drawn, or were those added in later
    for some reason?"
  created: '2007-09-24 21:30:36'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: The reason there are so many points on the Hoefler Text Q is that it is a
    TrueType font outline converted to PostScript bezier curves. TrueType does not
    use the same kind of curves as PostScript, so when you convert to outlines in
    a program like Illustrator, you get roughly twice as many points.
  created: '2007-09-24 21:41:34'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Q. I noticed the points at the extrema, but what interest me are the
    many points that just seem unnecessary. Is that how it was drawn, or were those
    added in later for some reason?</em>\r\n\r\nit's hard to tell. in what software
    program were you checking this outline?\r\nwhat was the font format of the font
    in question?\r\nwhat are your FontLab import settings?\r\n\r\nthese all make a
    difference."
  created: '2007-09-24 21:53:59'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I have a question too, if i may join it in here to the discussion. I am just
    starting with some software called Font Creator, which allows as few or as many
    control points (circles) as you like between the start and end-points (squares).
    \r\n\r\nMy letter 'e', for example, is here so you can see what i mean. Is this
    going to create problems too? Is Font Creator a very bad programme?\r\n\r\n(I
    know some of the curves are not smooth; I'm still working on it)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/e-with-control-points_5057.gif]\r\n\r\nWould
    I be better using Illustrator/something else?\r\n\r\nThank you!"
  created: '2007-09-24 23:03:06'
- author:
    name: David Sudweeks
    picture: 112594
  body: "Bendy,\r\nThat depends on what you'd like to accomplish. I'm just playing
    around in Illustrator right now. This work is eventually for a logotype, so I'm
    not worried about many of the things that would otherwise concern me regarding
    font creation. <a href=\"http://www.fontlab.com/\">FontLab</a> is the voiced tool
    of choice for the vast majority of the Typophile community."
  created: '2007-09-25 03:07:59'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "One of the benefits of using as few points as possible is, that once the
    points are positioned, one can drag the curve (rather than moving the arms of
    one or two point[s]), I\u2019ve found that keeping to x and y axes makes life
    simpler, although this doesn\u2019t always prove possible.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-09-25 08:31:40'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: <a href="http://www.typophile.com/node/28901">something similar i had asked
    long ago.</a>
  created: '2007-09-25 08:32:24'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "I find myself not caring too much about the extrema as long as I am in the
    design process. For example, I could design an italic \"o\" with just two points
    for each contour placed at the point where the stroke should be the thinnest.
    By doing this it is much easier to change the curves without having always to
    adjust several points at once.\r\nAfter the design is finished I insert points
    at the extrema and delete the other points. This is very easy in FontLab since
    it tries to keep the curve the same when you add and delete points. Unfortunately
    that's not the case in Illustrator."
  created: '2007-09-25 09:01:46'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thanks for your comments. I'm not of course a professional font designer
    so don't necessarily need high-power software and Font Creator seems to do most
    things I need so far. \r\n\r\nMy real concern was whether to use quadratic, cubic
    or more complicated curves, and if this might cause problems on other platforms.
    I do now see the benefit of fewer points and of keeping them at extrema. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-25 14:33:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">That being said, I\u2019ve been told a few times that points at extrema
    are less useful in italic and script faces, because the stems are not vertical.
    (Of course there are still horizontal stems.) And there\u2019s no need to get
    overzealous about it in the small details. The rounded end of a protruding serif
    probably doesn\u2019t need an extra point there.\r\n\r\nThis is an important cautionary
    note, I think, as it shows there are other approaches that may be helpful, depending
    on what you are drawing. It is often helpful to the drawing process to have points
    on curves only at extrema, with horizontal and vertical handles. But sometimes
    it helps the design process, particularly in an italic, not to do this. And even
    in the final outline, these are not a requirement for auto-hinting in in Type
    1 or CFF in every situation either, as Christopher points out.  \r\n\r\nAlso I
    think there is a problem of too much digital type looking alike, and sometimes
    looking a bit sterile. Putting in intermediate points creates more challenge in
    getting smooth curves, but it also can give curves a more warm and organic look.
    I think trying both ways--with and without intermediate points--is often a good
    idea.  \r\n\r\nOn cubic vs quadratic curves, my impression is that almost everybody
    initially designs with cubic beziers, and then converts if they are doing True
    Type. But I may be wrong about that.  "
  created: '2007-09-25 14:59:13'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "It is easier to see the benefit of designing with extrema in Fontlab vs Illustrator.
    That's because even though both are vector-based programs, Fontlab's vectors have
    resolution dependence (ie points and handles can only be on integer numbers).
    The equivalent in Illustrator would be designing with \"snap to grid\" turned
    on, and a fine grid. When I moved into Fontlab this was one of the most frustrating
    things (and sometimes still is). But, it does help you keep your design consistent
    and often it helps me create smoother curves than I would in illustrator. Now
    I finalize all logos in FL too.\r\n\r\nI also agree will Bill that beziers can
    dull your creativity. Straight stems and crisp corners are the mode by defualt
    because of the tool. To combat this, sometimes I'll go for a session in illustrator,
    or rough in a design using short straight segments, and then convert to curves
    using FL's fantastic line to curve tool. For an example of a roughed design see
    ye old type battle 12. http://bigcartel.typophile.com/battle12\r\n\r\nBRING BACK
    THE TYPE BATTLE. I'm getting too productive at work.\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2007-09-25 18:52:42'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: what happened to type battles anyway?
  created: '2007-09-25 19:12:16'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Should have said David, your second G is looking much better, but still has
    some issues. In an effort to be helpful:\r\n\r\nOne problem I have when sketching
    a script with a pencil is that there's a big difference between a pencil and a
    quill/brush/steel pointed pen etc. The difference is that those instruments produce
    thicks and thins regularly depending on how you hold, twist and form your letters.
    To replicate it well with a pencil requires an intimate understanding of those
    details. In your example (like mine often are) the ductus is somewhat confused.\r\n\r\nFor
    example, the following might be two ways to construct your G (green or purple).
    Depending on what the tool is, that could mean a bunch of different things. Stroke
    1 could be entirely thin or include a thick if the tool allows for contrast on
    the upstroke by applying pressure (such as steel pointed pen -- see Edwardian
    Script). Whatever rules you set for yourself, stick to them. I'm no expert with
    scripts, so everyone please chime in here.\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/ductus_4500.gif]\r\n\r\nJust
    looking at the quality of the curves themselves, there are some lumps and kinks.
    I will say it's hard to tell from a gif at this size. In general on the down strokes
    I would move the weight lower in the curve. This makes sense as you think about
    pulling the instument down the page adding weight. Watch out for wide-narrow-wide
    sections where it should be smooth (the little waist marks in green). The other
    thing is that some of the cuves happen too tight, or not smoothly enough (marked
    with a green corner). Lastly, watch your intersections. Here you have medium thickness
    crossing medium (a no-no). In general, thicks cross thins. Thins can cross thins,
    but never thicks crossing thicks (or almost thicks crossing almost thicks :-)
    There are probably exceptions, but in general this is true.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/curves_5740.gif]\r\n\r\nHope
    that helps, or at least coaxes out better advice :-) You've chosen an ambitious
    project. Digital scripts are EXTREMELY tricky on the designer and their beziers.
    Especially so with thin ones like this since it's often harder to tell what is
    wrong. Good luck!\r\n\r\nRandy\r\n\r\nEDIT: one last thing. If you can, check
    pages 180-196 of Doyald Young's excellent FONTS & LOGOS. His is a script master
    and offers several nuggets there."
  created: '2007-09-25 19:50:11'
- author:
    name: David Sudweeks
    picture: 112594
  body: Randy, that's super helpful.
  created: '2007-09-25 20:09:04'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: I second that David, thanks Randy! This is a really good thread guys:-)
  created: '2007-09-25 21:49:00'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"(You\u2019ll want to remove that overlapping path eventually, too \u2014
    but maybe you knew that already!)\"\r\n\r\nWhy should overlaps be removed?\r\n\r\n\"The
    reason there are so many points on the Hoefler Text Q is that it is a TrueType
    font outline converted to PostScript bezier curves.\"\r\n\r\nI'm certain that
    it is a PostScript outline converted to TrueType. \r\n\r\nThe other two things
    no one mentioned here, or I missed, that might be helpful, are: that the drawing
    of the shapes without the points on extrema is common. Left this way, non-extreme
    contours remain fine at high resolutions. \r\n\r\nAnd, that anything less than
    high res and extrema-d contours become required (hinted or not) because of the
    general effects of scaling. The illustration below shows two perfect circles with
    that one difference (above). Then, (below), scaled to 1%, and back up again. \r\n\r\nThe
    left bottom \"circle\" is in fact \"better\", regardless of the fact that it is
    also more easily hinted. :-)\r\n\r\nCheers![img:sites/default/files/old-images/1000_5662.png]"
  created: '2007-09-26 13:51:04'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "The idea of resolution and beziers being used in the same scentence is probably
    odd to most Illustrator-only folks. Perform the same 100 > 1 > 100 in Illustrator,
    and there will be no difference (or almost none). David's example above is great
    to show the resolution limitations of Fontlab and fonts in general. But it should
    also be said that anytime vectors are viewed, they're quantized into pixels or
    toner flakes etc. Blow up a scan of a print and the curves looked tweeked too,
    but less so, if there are points at the extrema. And there's the rub.\r\n\r\nRandy\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-26 23:06:56'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>Why should overlaps be removed?</cite>\r\n\r\nBecause PostScript prefers
    it. I am not mentally equipped to get into a discussion of how today's various
    rasterizers behave, but there are plenty of past examples of trouble caused by
    overlapping paths, reversed paths, and other PostScript oddities. For example,
    some rasterizers will show a filled, overlapping section as unfilled.\r\n\r\nThe
    <em>Adobe Type 1 Font Format</em> says:\r\n\r\n<cite>3.6 Overlapping Paths\r\nA
    single closed outline should not intersect itself ...</cite>"
  created: '2007-09-27 00:08:41'
- author:
    name: Hildebrant
    picture: 110392
  body: 'This is a great thread. Thanks all who have been contributing. '
  created: '2007-09-27 00:43:54'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: ">Also I think there is a problem of too much digital type looking alike,
    and sometimes looking a bit sterile. Putting in intermediate points creates more
    challenge in getting smooth curves, but it also can give curves a more warm and
    organic look. I think trying both ways\u2014with and without intermediate points\u2014is
    often a good idea.\r\n\r\nThanks William!!!!!\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2007-09-27 09:52:39'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Why should overlaps be removed?\"\r\n\"Because PostScript prefers it\"\r\nI
    think you mean, some PostScript requires it, so all PostScript prefers it. \r\nI
    guess I agree with the points on extrema to an extreme, and that's the rub.\r\nWhen
    people here say \"points on extrema\" what's really meant, is that the extreme
    extent of a glyphs curve has an on-curve point and two colinear off-curve points.
    This makes scaling a relative breeze, as rounding effects the trio of points identically
    (in one dimension at least). When removing overlap introduces quads of points
    (or worse, think \xD8), that must round in two dimensions to an implied but not
    specified line, degrading under the stress of resolution and or reproduction is
    sure thing. Palatino Linotype on the Mac, \"&\" below 20 pt on screen is a pretty
    good example. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-27 14:40:06'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Perform the same 100 > 1 > 100 in Illustrator, and there will be no difference
    (or almost none).\"\r\nI know, but on the other hand, if you view an 8.5.x11 page
    at actual size in Illustrator, it'll never, or almost never actually be so. \r\n\r\nYour
    choice, draw with no relationship to the reality of scaling, or actually think
    about the fonts being produced by the outline....by lookin; at em! :)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-09-27 14:48:03'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>I think you mean, some PostScript requires it, so all PostScript prefers
    it.</cite>\r\n\r\nYeah, that was just my way of saying it without being too dogmatic.
    I couldn't say it would always be a problem, but the T1 spec seems to want it
    that way, and at least at Adobe we'd consider it a bug.\r\n\r\nThis business of
    \"grid-fitting\" points (i.e. integer values) is an interesting topic. If one
    is going to work on a font and do a lot of scaling, then there is a case to be
    made for doing it in Fontographer or Illustrator, where shapes can be transformed
    a lot without the cumulative rounding errors. But it's worth pointing out -- because
    I've encountered people here and there who miss it -- that the outlines will be
    rounded to integer coordinates in the final font. That's the advantage of FontLab;
    it's more WYSIWYG."
  created: '2007-09-28 03:24:37'
- author:
    name: scannerlicker
    picture: 130346
  body: "Well, if it's still of some use, here's this:\r\nhttp://learn.scannerlicker.net/2014/04/16/bezier-curves-and-type-design-a-tutorial/\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2014-04-18 03:28:41'
- author:
    name: bobistheowl
  body: "I'll add my two cents to this. \r\n\r\nI agree with Rob O Font, (26 Sept
    2007 5:51 AM), when he said \"drawing of the shapes without the points on extrema
    is common. Left this way, non-extreme contours remain fine at high resolutions.
    \"\r\n\r\nI'm not a professional graphics designer, nor do I design fonts for
    a living. I experiment with typography as a hobby, using archaic applications
    and techniques. I don't have Illustrator. I do have FontLab Studio5, but I prefer
    to use one of their other products, ScanFont 3, which only works with Windows
    operating systems prior to Vista. I draw my glyphs as monochrome bitmaps in MS
    Paint. \r\n\r\nIn my latest font, I used the monochrome source images from a previous
    font I'd made named Outstanding, (2012), based on an 1874 design originally called
    Light Shade, (AKA NightShade, in Solotype Catalog of 4,147 Display Typefaces,
    page 17). This alphabet has previously been digitalized as NigelsadeSH by Soft
    Horizons, (1993), very poorly by James Fordyce as Shadowed Serif, (1994),  by
    Character as CameoAntique, (2011). \r\n\r\nI create fonts by modifying photographs
    or artwork.  I created Outstanding by scaling the large .jpg images available
    here: http://bigletters.org/big-decorative-vintage-letters.html\r\nmanually tracing
    them to two colours, composed for monochrome, as source graphics to import into
    my font editor.\r\n\r\nSource graphic for S:\r\n[[http://s26.postimg.org/6tmbl81q1/big_vintage_letters_s3_24b_778_24b_280_edit5_fin.png]]\r\n\r\nAfter
    completing Outstanding, (a decent font, by freeware standards), I was displeased
    with the results. I liked the concept, but I thought the rendering of the alphabet
    design was poor, and the letters were much too wide for practical use. \r\n\r\nI
    started by reducing the width of the Outstanding source graphics by 20%, without
    changing the height:\r\n\r\nSource graphic of S  from Cabbagetown:\r\n\r\n[[http://s26.postimg.org/vo5tfamk9/big_vintage_letters_s3_edit5_final_80_mc.png]]\r\n\r\nMy
    'raw' vector looked like this:\r\n\r\n[[http://s26.postimg.org/h7ik0px2x/raw_S_vector.png]]\r\n\r\nAt
    this point, I begin to 'sculpt' the vector, by removing all nodes that are not
    necessary to hold the contour shape in place. I also make alterations to the design
    in the font editor, by manipulating the positions of the remaining nodes and control
    handles.\r\n\r\nMy final design is almost entirely based on Cartesian geometry,
    in the sense that the majority of the nodes and handles end up aligned with each
    other, in vertical, horizontal, and diagonal directions. This screen capture of
    the final edit:\r\n\r\n[[http://s26.postimg.org/ejvef8gqh/S_133q8_vector.png]]\r\n\r\nshows
    nodes in green, light blue, and red, with handles in yellow. The purple lines
    show horizontal and vertical alignments. The majority of the nodes at lower left
    and upper right have diagonal alignment with each other. Only 36 nodes are used
    to create the glyph.\r\n\r\nI get really smooth outlines at enormous point sizes:\r\n\r\n[[http://s26.postimg.org/6sa32xn7d/S_133r3_288_pt.png]]\r\n\r\nI
    haven't figured out why the alignments occur, (this process is being used for
    the first time), but every glyph has them:\r\n\r\nK from Cabbagetown, modified
    slightly since this screen cap was made:\r\n\r\n[[http://s26.postimg.org/g6rle5juh/K_129i9_vector.png]]\r\n\r\nI
    think of the vector as a malleable shape that evolves as it becomes more efficient
    and structured. The end result almost has more in common with chemical engineering
    than with graphic design, but I have to play to my strengths. I barely passed
    art class in high school, but I had completed all available math courses shortly
    after by fifteenth birthday.\r\n\r\nI don't advocate that anyone abandon Illustrator
    to adopt MS Paint, but I do feel that the glyph on the Illustrator drawing board
    is just the first step in creating a fully realized vector.\r\n\r\nRather than
    placing nodes on the extrema, I remove the nodes that are not on or near the natural
    curvatures that I want to have. The curved dome on top of the S is created by
    the placement of two control handles on two specific horizontal planes. If I move
    either or both handles vertically, a flat spot will be created on top. If I move
    either or both horizontally, the curve on top will remain, but its position will
    change. This is, by no means, easier to do than the 'by the book' method of placing
    nodes at North, South, East and West, which guarantees a flat spot at each location,
    which no one will notice, provided that the text is small enough, or it is displayed
    in an app that hides small errors with smoothing."
  created: '2014-09-11 09:32:36'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "I've never heard of that. So should nodes at extreme be avoided, or what
    are you doing differently to guarantee proper rendering?\r\n\r\nAlso, can someone
    tell me what you consider to be the great benefit of doing your design in FontLab
    Studio? I sometimes do slight modifications in FontLab but haven't gotten used
    to it as a standard design program. I do my typefaces in Illustrator and then
    drag the design into FontLab. In Illustrator working with guides is easier to
    me, and I can zoom in further into the design to fix details.\r\n\r\nMy first
    attempt at a serif typeface years ago was rather disastrous, I believe I spent
    over 120 hours on it and I learned tremendously, but in the end I realized my
    way of handling nodes was very bad, and if I wanted to use the design at all I
    probably had to re-do each letter. I never actually tested what effect this way
    of handling nodes has. Can someone tell me what would happen to the first design
    David Sudweeks posted here? Does anyone have examples of the effect of handling
    diagonal beziers?"
  created: '2014-10-20 17:47:53'
- author:
    name: scannerlicker
    picture: 130346
  body: "<blockquote>My take is that having nodes at extrema will result in poor rendering
    on screen in many Windows rasterizers.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThomas: please explain
    this, my eyebrows are twitching in very odd ways."
  created: '2014-10-25 17:13:48'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I'm almost positive he meant to write \"NOT having nodes at extrema...\"\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-25 20:11:05'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "There are two different things here: one is doing the initial drawing with
    nodes wherever seems best for drawing and editing; the other is where nodes are
    placed on the final output font.\r\n\r\nMy take is that not having nodes at extrema
    will result in poor rendering on screen in many Windows rasterizers.\r\n\r\n(EDITED
    to correct missing \u201Cnot\u201D)"
  created: '2014-11-05 23:47:33'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Indeed I did. Fixed now. Eek.
  created: '2014-11-05 23:47:48'
date: '2007-09-22 18:19:49'
node_type: forum
title: Using bezier curves effectively

---
