---
author:
  name: megmog
body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nI'm a graphic design university student going into my final year
  and have chosen to do my dissertation on the use of typography in architecture.\r\n\r\nMost
  of the resources on this topic focus on signage or wayfinding systems, but I would
  like to look at buildings where typography is much more integral to the overall
  design; this could be as part of the actual building (such as the wales millennium
  centre) or separate but in a way that really adds to the overall impact of the design.\r\n\r\nI'm
  struggling to find good examples of this, especially in the UK where I stand a better
  chance of being able to talk to architects/typographers involved in the project
  \u2013 I'm appealing for suggestions please! I know there are a couple of other
  posts in this forum related to this and I've already checked the references out.
  REally helpful but I jsut need more examples really\r\n\r\n\r\nAny suggestions of
  buildings that use typogrpahy or related resources would really be appreciated,
  thanks!"
comments:
- author:
    name: Renko
    picture: 111443
  body: "A friend of mine is an architect whose studio is called <a href=\"http://www.xarchitekten.at/\">x
    architekten</a> in Linz, Austria. In 2001 they built a house for a family in Upper
    Austria where one of the supporting pillars was formed as a giant x. The copy
    of the architectural database nextroom says: \xBB\u2026 this pillar is simoultaneously
    sort of a signature of the architects \u2026\" and the well-known newspaper Der
    Standard has seen this also in his architectural essays: \xBB\u2026\_this X can
    be read as an architectural label and links to the authors of the house \u2026\xAB\r\n\r\nSee
    more images and stories at the <a href=\"http://www.nextroom.at/building_article.php?building_id=1086&article_id=3190\">Nextroom</a>.
    (german only)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fa002621_5487.jpg]\r\n\r\nHope
    this is what you are looking for. \r\n\r\n(Image copyright: <a href=\"http://www.nextroom.at/actor_project.php?actor_id=4566&kind_id=3\">Herta
    Hurnaus</a>)"
  created: '2007-09-24 13:52:40'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "http://www.typophile.com/node/35184\r\nhttp://www.aiga.org/content.cfm/architecture-and-type-a-modern-marriage\r\nhttp://images.businessweek.com/ss/07/05/0525_dandan/source/7.htm\r\nhttp://www.cityofsound.com/blog/2006/12/typotecture_typ.html"
  created: '2007-09-24 13:59:58'
- author:
    name: Renko
    picture: 111443
  body: "There is another one  in my surrounding: <a href=\"http://www.lentos.at\">
    The Lentos</a>, muzeum of Modern Art in Linz. It is a clear concrete building
    with a glass surface. And in this glass there are hundreds and thousands of little
    signatures \xBBlentoskunstmuseum\xAB seen, which give the glass structure a translucent
    feeling. At the empty spaces the word LENTOS is formed. At night the glass is
    highlighted with different coloured lamps, so the building is shining violet,
    green and red (if I remember the colours correctly)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lentos_fassade_print2_5120.jpg]\r\n\r\nSee
    more pictures at the website and at google/images with the keyword \xBBlentos\xAB."
  created: '2007-09-24 14:21:15'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://www.publiclettering.org.uk/BritishLibrary.php\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-09-24 14:22:45'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "This may not count, but Mr. Ando's building in Fort Worth features a large
    Y column.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.bluffton.edu/~sullivanm/texas/ftworth/ando/pavs2.jpg\r\n\r\nNow
    this was not intended as a letter by the architect, but the form is obvious enough
    that no one protests the use of the letter as descriptor."
  created: '2007-09-24 14:33:00'
- author:
    name: Renko
    picture: 111443
  body: "Have you seen the <a href=\"http://www.spamula.net/blog/2005/10/steingrubers_alphabet.html\">Steingruber
    Alphabet</a>? Where \xBBeach letter of the alphabet is made into a plan of a palatial
    building.\xAB \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/steingruber1-thumb_4169.jpg]\r\n\r\nQuite
    interesting \u2026 but don't know if you are looking for these things. "
  created: '2007-09-24 15:02:28'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Smart kid. It's a fantastic topic for a dissertation. Please, make sure you
    don't miss Nicolete Gray. If there's an authority on this issue, that's her.\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/31044\r\nIf
    you have access to the AR issues mentioned on the thread you'll find great photos.
    Unfortunately, I only have photocopies.\r\nGood luck! I'm very interested in this
    topic, I'd love to know how works is proceeding."
  created: '2007-09-24 18:00:34'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "I did this ID for an architectural developer & contractor last year. The
    x drawn in the ID is composed out of two seperate shapes working as individual
    architectural elements. This allows the company to embed the brand in the viewers
    mind without it feeling forced upon you. More images will be uploaded when the
    project is completed.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Nexi-Visual-profile-1_4979.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Nexi-Visual-profile-2_3517.jpg]"
  created: '2007-09-24 22:09:20'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Yo,\r\n\r\nNot quite architecture, but these [[http://www.catherinegriffiths.co.nz/01%203.WWW1.html|sculptures
    by Catherine Griffiths]] are amazing. And this is a [[http://www.catherinegriffiths.co.nz/01%203.PON1.html|house
    she wrapped in type]]!"
  created: '2007-09-24 22:26:22'
- author:
    name: Guerella
    picture: 110740
  body: "The House of Terror in Budapest.\r\n\r\nhttp://wwwold.terrorhaza.hu/index3.html"
  created: '2007-09-24 22:35:22'
- author:
    name: megmog
  body: "wow, thanks everyone! This is all really useful stuff. It brings up some
    interesting questions that I've been trying to work out myself too e.g. where
    does the line come between type that is truly integrated with the building and
    type that is just an addition? At first I thought I'd just assume that if the
    type is 'part of the building' e.g. carved into it, then it's integrated, but
    I think it's more complex than that \u2013 loads of old buildings have engraved
    letters that don't really make much impact on the design and then you'll find
    a building that has type effectively as a sign stuck onto it, such as Fukutake
    House suggested by satya, but the type is much more integral to the overall design.
    Any thoughts?\r\n\r\nIf people are interested here are some of the best examples
    I've found so far:\r\nOXO tower, Wales Millennium Centre, TVAM building in Camden,
    Milan Polytechnic College, Graduate House of Toronto University, ESISAR school
    of engineering in France, South African Constitutional Court. I've also happened
    across some mentions of Fortunato Depero who seemed to be part of a futurist movement
    and designed structures/buildings that were entirely type for advertising purposes,
    but I haven't been able to find much information on him. Does anyone know anything
    about him?\r\n\r\nThe Steingruber Alphabet suggestion is really interesting \u2013
    I'll definitely be looking into this more! As for Nicolete Gray, I agree; she
    is definitely the main source of writing on this subject. I've found her book
    Lettering on Buildings, which I think includes most of the articles Iore mentions,
    as well as Alan Bartram's Lettering in Architecture and Jock Kinneir's Words and
    Buildings. A few other books are slightly related but those are the best I've
    found so far. Does anyone know of any more recent books on the subject? The most
    recent of these is 1980 and using typography and architecture has become a lot
    more common in the last few years I think?\r\n\r\nSorry for the length of this
    post!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-25 13:38:18'
- author:
    name: nora g
    picture: 113099
  body: I think that Lawrence Weiner also worked with Type and Architecture. And whats
    about Jenny Holzer?
  created: '2007-09-25 16:53:10'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: Fortunato Depero is a well known Futurist, probably not as much as Marinetti
    but I'm sure you'll be able to find stuff on him on the internet or in a good
    library. But I don't understand your question, sorry. Structures that were entirely
    type for ad purposes?  Let me know.
  created: '2007-09-25 22:36:28'
- author:
    name: megmog
  body: "Sorry if I wasn't clear. The buildings that I've seen are the Campari pavillion
    and the book pavillion for the Bestetti, Tuminelli, and Treves publishing houses.
    I've only seen a drawing of the Campari pavillion (you can see it at the bottom
    of this page http://www.cityofsound.com/blog/2003/12/index.html), I don't think
    it was ever built. This is the Treves pavillion: www.rebel.net/~futurist/depero.htm.\r\n\r\nAs
    you can see they're made almost entirely out of type and use the letters of the
    companies as a form of advertisement. Hope that helps!"
  created: '2007-09-26 11:19:39'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: Right! Great links. I had seen those before but I don't know where. I'll ask
    around. Are you planning to cover a specific period in your dissertation or is
    it a general overview?
  created: '2007-09-27 01:44:32'
- author:
    name: megmog
  body: Well, I'd like to concentrate on more recent stuff, say the last 20 years
    or so, as it would be good to try and see if there's a bit of a trend emerging.
    But all examples are good and it would be useful to have some more historical
    references. Cheers.
  created: '2007-09-27 09:19:08'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/minnaert2_5733.jpg]\r\n \r\nThe Minnaert
    Building, University of Utrecht, Neutelings Riedijk Architects\r\nhttp://eng.archinform.net/projekte/7930.htm\r\n\r\nThisn
    one is also funny:\r\nhttp://gutter.curbed.com/archives/2005/08/12/gutter_mailbag_lick_the_alphabet_edition.php"
  created: '2007-09-27 10:48:54'
- author:
    name: eivind
  body: 'You might also consider graffiti? There at least an obvious connection between
    lettering/ lettershapes and buildings. I know Dutch graffiti artist Delta aka.
    Boris Tellegen has done a collabo too, where the goal was to merge graffiti and
    architectural form. Check out Delta''s homepage http://www.deltainc.nl/site/index.html
    and the architecture project: http://masterplan.ooo.nl/introductionE.html and
    http://www.showroommama.nl/projects/masterplan.cfm'
  created: '2007-09-27 15:35:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Tim,\r\nGreat shot!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-27 16:14:09'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Oops, that photo was actually not my own, if that is what you meant. I was
    not at home and did not have access to that. The one above is from here: http://www.galinsky.com/buildings/minnaert/minnaert.jpg\r\n\r\nHowever,
    my own shot looks virtually the same, only with a few more bicycles:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/minnaert_4767.jpg]\r\n\r\nAnother
    shot from the NL trip:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/flats_6375.jpg]\r\n\r\nIndicates
    the flat numbers accessible through that entrance, I believe.\r\n\r\nAnd another
    one:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/scala_6089.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nQuestion:
    What makes this use of Scala special?\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-27 18:15:55'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "<cite> What makes this use of Scala special? </cite>\r\nIs it because Scala
    was designed for the Vredenburg Music Center in the Netherlands, which is the
    building in the photo? \r\nGreat photos, Tim!"
  created: '2007-09-27 22:23:48'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: Bingo! Well done, lore!
  created: '2007-09-27 23:05:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "So it is kind of like their version of La Scala in Italy?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-27 23:43:35'
- author:
    name: bergh
  body: '[[http://pentagram.com/blog/2007/07/sign-of-the-times.php]]'
  created: '2007-09-28 05:02:24'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "OK, Megmog, you want current or recent stuff only, right, not historical?
    Because if you want that there are old British books you can get via interlibrary
    loan; see my <a href=\"http://blog.fawny.org/2006/08/25/architext/\">blog post</a>.\r\n\r\nAnd
    you want exteriors, not interiors, right? If not, you could look at the Toronto
    subway, about which I have written a word or two.\r\n\r\nRight off the top of
    my head I can think of buildings in Toronto with let\u2019s call them extruding
    or protruding metal letters that are clearly intended to be \u201Carchitectural.\u201D
    One set of such letters is, of course, in Arial.\r\n\r\nIf you want a literal
    building-as-sign as comparison, Google the BMW building by the DVP on Sunlight
    Park in Toronto.\r\n\r\nI could go on. Hit me up directly for more.\r\n\r\n\u2014
    \ \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2007-09-28 21:12:57'
- author:
    name: megmog
  body: "<cite>OK, Megmog, you want current or recent stuff only, right, not historical?</cite>\r\nYep
    that's right, I'll look into the historical stuff as background but I really want
    to concentrate on more recent developments, see if there are any trends emerging
    etc. I've got the books you talk about in your blog so found it pretty interesting!\r\n\r\n<cite>And
    you want exteriors, not interiors, right?</cite>\r\nAgain, I might look at a couple
    of interiors as sort of background, but I am definitely concentrating on exterior.
    Most of the interior uses of typography in buildings that I've found are just
    wayfinding systems on a larger scale, which is a whole other topic that an undergraduate
    dissertation doesn't really have the word count for!\r\n\r\nIn the pics I found
    for the BMW building in Toronto it used images but not typography, and I really
    need to look at <strong>typography</strong> in architecture. Like with the interiors/exteriors
    I need to focus otherwise it'll be too big a topic if I start looking at general
    graphics on buildings too.\r\n\r\nThanks for your help Joe."
  created: '2007-10-01 11:36:59'
- author:
    name: Richard Hards
    picture: 110084
  body: I'm sure The <a href="http://www.wmc.org.uk/index.cfm?alias=building" target="new">Wales
    Millennium Centre</a> has been discussed on typophile.com[img:sites/default/files/old-images/WMC_4055.jpg]
  created: '2007-10-01 20:19:15'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "I highly recommend Peter Hall's 'Living skins: Architecture as interface':\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/designcenter/thinktank/livingskins/\r\n\r\nIn
    his article are some sophisticated thoughts about the <cite>role</cite> of type
    in architecture but he does not go into detail about the actual typography. And
    he is right because his thoughts are independent of the typographic details.\r\n\r\nI
    also thought about writing my dissertation about typography and architecture and
    found that this is the main problem: Some people treat the architectural role
    of type while (rightly) ignoring the details. Others, like those who write about
    lettering, care about the actual letter shapes but not (or only superficially)
    about the architectural context. At least, I haven't found anything.\r\n\r\nIf
    you manage to actually <cite>connect</cite> both on a sophisticated level that
    would be ground breaking and very impressive as far as I am concerned."
  created: '2007-10-01 22:42:31'
- author:
    name: megmog
  body: Yes Tim I think you're definitely right, what books and articles I have found
    are all about the letters themselves and not about the impact the type has on
    the building, bit frustrating!
  created: '2007-10-04 22:27:22'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Are you interested in failed attempts as well as successes? There is a building
    north of Toronto, (between Hwy 7 and Langstaff, visible from the 400) that has
    a huge and hideous \"A\". The space under the cross bar is the main entry. The
    narrow stroke is on the wrong side and it is just clumsy looking. I don't have
    a photo, If you like I'll snap one next time I drive past it.\r\n\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2007-10-05 03:40:06'
- author:
    name: megmog
  body: "Definitely. I think it would be really interesting to look at both good and
    bad examples and then try to work out why it is or isn't successful. That would
    be fabulous if you could take a photo, that's very nice of you!\r\n\r\nAnother
    thing that is quite interesting in terms of 'bad examples' is looking at buildings
    that have changed their use since the type was originally done. There's a department
    store in Reading that still has 'Heelas', its old name, embedded in the brick.
    It's an argument against using typography that is more integral to the building
    perhaps, although in a way it's quite interesting as it shows the building's history..."
  created: '2007-10-05 12:53:37'
- author:
    name: chrisostomost
    picture: 113306
  body: "Hi megmog,\r\n\r\nI have just started my MPhil/PhD by project at the Department
    of Architecture of the Royal College of Arts and my topic is exactly the same
    as yours. I call it 'Typotecture: typographic elements applied to architectural
    design'.\r\n\r\nI started carrying out research on it while I was doing my undergraduate
    studies in Greece (5 years ago). At that period, I tried to define typotecture,
    record and analyse its history with emphasis to contemporary examples (using many
    of the ones listed above) and evaluate it. At the RCA, my intention is to develop
    it further, especially in practice using current digital tools (scripting, 3d
    modeling, rapid prototyping).\r\n \r\nIn my opinion, one of the 'good examples'
    of typotecture - maybe the best - is the Marion Cultural Centre in Australia (last
    picture), where the boundaries between typography and architecture become blurred.
    It is one of the few cases where a visitor trying to read the name (semantics)
    of the building ends up reading the structure of it.\r\n\r\nAs you have already
    noticed, the information for this subject is limited and fragmentated, but this
    should be a reason for you to continue and not be frustrated!\r\n\r\nKeep up the
    research!!!\r\n\r\nI'll be in touch!\r\n\r\nchrisostomost[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typotecture_3927.jpg]"
  created: '2007-10-09 01:41:49'
- author:
    name: megmog
  body: "Hi Chrisostomost,\r\n\r\nIt's great to find someone else looking at this
    too! And you're right, the Marion Cultural Centre really is a great example of
    'typotecture'. I'm speaking to my dissertation tutor in couple of days so hopefully
    will have some more to work on after that. It would be great to hear some more
    from you on this if you have any more examples...\r\n\r\nThanks."
  created: '2007-10-10 23:21:11'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "I should have remembered this one: The abortion that is the University of
    Toronto Graduate Students(\u2019) Residence at Harbord & Spadina.\r\n\r\nFrom
    _Details in Contemporary Architecture_, Caltrans District 7 HQ by Gruen.\r\n\r\n\u2014
    \ \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2007-10-14 17:52:14'
- author:
    name: Jennifer Bracy
  body: The Seattle Public Library does a great job with "supergraphics" but my favorite
    element is the raised wooden floor. Visitors actually tread around upon inverted
    raised letterforms as is if they're on a ginat tray of movable type; it's really
    pretty cool. You'll have to look very closely at the image. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/libraryfloor_5960.jpg]
  created: '2007-10-16 16:48:43'
- author:
    name: rl
  body: "The Sherman Oaks Galleria has a gorgeous forty foot high lower case g] engraved
    into the side of the building facing the freeway: \r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/17185596@N00/125474671\r\n\r\nAt
    night is it illuminated and looks absolutely stunning. Sorry I couldn't find a
    better picture to put it in perspective. Has anyone else seen this in LA? "
  created: '2007-10-22 05:09:07'
- author:
    name: CaroPaynter
    picture: 114438
  body: 'Im studying at the University of Canterbury in New Zealand and I was wondering
    if you had completed your dissertation yet as i am also researching the relationship
    between architecture and typography. I would be really interested in reading what
    you have completed, and in any other links that would be of use in regards to
    this topic, other than the ones through out the discussion above. I have been
    reading a book called "Forms of Inquiry- the architecture of critical graphic
    design'' edited by Zak Kyes and Mark Owens which may also be of use to you. '
  created: '2008-03-04 02:48:39'
- author:
    name: alexislouise
    picture: 114477
  body: "I am a grad student  at California College of the Arts and am just beginning
    my research on the same subject- I'll post anything new that I find as well!\r\nso
    exciting!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-07 22:03:18'
- author:
    name: Carien
  body: "I'm studying Architecture at the TU Delft in the Netherlands and currently
    working on the same subject for my graduation. I'm especially focussing on history
    and the use of the alphabet in the overall design of the building: I've found
    a lot on Italian futurism (Depero, Monza Book pavilion) but I am looking for more
    examples of for instance early functionalism. I will post my final report. I'm
    also really interested in your results. When you're finished already, can you
    post your final result? Good luck!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-23 13:15:22'
- author:
    name: micro
    picture: 112178
  body: 'Exclusive typography in subways/metros: http://mic-ro.com/metro/metrofonts.html'
  created: '2008-04-29 22:22:32'
- author:
    name: dinu
    picture: 111995
  body: "I've seen this topic is almost asleep. Pity\r\nMaybe this should be seen
    too:\r\nhttp://www.whynotassociates.com/en/environmental.php\r\ntogether with\r\nhttp://www.gordonyoung.net/\r\n\r\nalso
    this, from a different angle, going together with Steingruber:\r\nhttp://www.spamula.net/blog/2006/09/basolis_alphabet_1.html\r\nhttp://www.architecture.com/HowWeBuiltBritain/HistoricalPeriods/TudorsAndStuarts/ElizabethanDevice/AHouseForJohnThorpe.aspx\r\nhttp://southeasternarchitecture.blogspot.com/2008/10/building-by-letters.html"
  created: '2009-03-23 18:06:58'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: I too did once a diploma on type and architecture. See http://blog.naver.com/pamina7776/50010671643
    .
  created: '2009-03-24 08:29:29'
- author:
    name: Hboy
    picture: 119672
  body: "The landscape architects I work for were involved in a project for the Lowther
    Children's Centre with large scale lettering in timber. The architects were Patel
    Taylor who, I believe, specified the type. Looks like a nice for the little ones
    to run around. \r\nhttp://www.plincke.com/projects/education/primary/lowther-childrens-centre/\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/46526683@N03/4271911628/\r\n\r\n\r\nReminds
    me also of the monolithic Arsenal letters at the Emirates Stadium at Ashburton
    Grove used as a meeting point and creates a sense of welcome. \r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/toxophilite/540204198/\r\n\r\nThe
    Hackney Empire extension is a great one as the block letters seem to float in
    the air in front of the south elevation as you view from Mare Street.\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/albedo/152261787/ "
  created: '2010-04-06 15:40:38'
- author:
    name: yusufcana
  body: hi this is Jon. I'm a Graphic Design masters student at the Academy of Art
    in San Francisco. I'm doing my thesis on the same topic too. I'm concentrating
    more on typography. Thanks for sharing these images, and I'll share the interesting
    things that I find.
  created: '2010-06-22 22:32:46'
- author:
    name: Arthus
    picture: 116411
  body: "Karin Polder did a very nice job at the Royal Library in the Hague, using
    the jagged facade of the building to split up the lettering, I'll have to say
    it looks best when you look at it straight ahead.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.karenpolder.nl/detail.php?id=30"
  created: '2010-06-23 00:16:52'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.contemporist.com/2009/11/06/torres-de-hercules-by-rafael-de-la-hoz/\">Torres
    de Hercules.</A>\r\n\r\nIt's striking, but I question the decision to make the
    motto read only horizontally, with the rows offset at random, so that all you
    can see on the vertical towers from any vantage point is gibberish. I would have
    used a one-step pattern like so:\r\n<code>\r\nNONPLUSULTRA\r\nONPLUSULTRAN\r\nNPLUSULTRANO\r\nPLUSULTRANON\r\nLUSULTRANONP\r\nUSULTRANONPL\r\nSULTRANONPLU\r\nULTRANONPLUS\r\nLTRANONPLUSU\r\nTRANONPLUSUL\r\nRANONPLUSULT\r\nANONPLUSULTR\r\n</code>"
  created: '2010-06-23 02:19:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's important to distinguish between type and letters.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nHow
    about this for a 17th century sans serif?\r\n<a href=\"http://www.tournorfolk.co.uk/felbrigg/felbrigghall.jpg\">Felbrigg
    Hall, Norfolk</a>\r\n\r\nAnother: <a href=\"http://www.distinguished-destinations.com/Sherrines%20wedding%20Castle%20AShby.jpeg\">Castle
    Ashby, Northamptonshire</a>"
  created: '2010-06-23 06:30:48'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "It may be worth trying to go a bit deeper into the relationship of lettering
    and building.\r\nhttp://www.google.de/images?q=Fachwerk&oe=utf-8&rls=org.mozilla:de:official&client=firefox-a&um=1&ie=UTF-8&source=og&sa=N&hl=de&tab=wi\r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arc_3489.jpg]"
  created: '2010-06-23 10:23:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Fantastic, Andreas!
  created: '2010-06-23 14:45:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...the relationship of lettering and building.</em>\r\n\r\nNicolette
    Grey makes many architectural allusions in <em>Nineteenth Century Ornamented Typefaces</em>,
    comparing the type design trends in different decades of the 19th century with
    contemporary trends in architecture. She benchmarks type design against architecture,
    more so than art, literature or music.\r\nHer book is in fact a history of 19th
    century english type design in general, not just ornamental types. As a cultural
    analysis of the plastic values of type style, I know of no better work."
  created: '2010-06-23 17:44:10'
- author:
    name: yusufcana
  body: I've just started a blog at typotecture.com. I'm posting subjects that are
    related to typography, architecture and multidisciplinary design in general. Both
    contemporary and historical examples. I hope you'll enjoy.
  created: '2010-10-22 04:03:45'
- author:
    name: patrickN
    picture: 122084
  body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nMy name is Patirck Neuschafer and i am Multimedia Design student
    of the American University of Sharjah, in the UAE.\r\n\r\nI have been always interested
    in interdisciplinary work and especially in integrating typography with architecture,
    i am right now righting an research paper on typography and architecture where
    i am asking: whether pillars in architecture can become more than just structure,
    whether typography could influence by using its letter forms to enhance the overall
    meaning of a building. Giving more than just applying ornaments on the external
    shell. \r\n\r\nIt would be very nice if any one could help me out, especially
    to get sources for my research paper that would help me to argue this point. I
    need not only websites for references also books, articles journals, existing
    works and examples architects. \r\n\r\nI believe this new Typotecture as described
    earlier is a brake through in design and architecture, giving a new level of branding
    to it.\r\n\r\nThanks...."
  created: '2011-03-08 06:52:35'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Patrick, read this thread which is full of intersting hints and suggestions.\r\n\r\nAnd
    please, think twice next time before asking a forum\u2019s members to do your
    research work for you."
  created: '2011-03-08 09:17:07'
- author:
    name: nikki.villagomez
    picture: 122068
  body: "I love this thread...I don't think I've seen a mention of the following and
    I think it deserves a place here:\r\n\r\nPaula Scher's 2004 typographic revamp
    of a 1940s building for the New Jersey Performing Arts Center in Newark \r\n\r\nhttp://www.wallpaper.com/gallery/architecture/a-new-generation-of-supergraphics/17052053/34546"
  created: '2011-03-08 22:09:51'
- author:
    name: patrickN
    picture: 122084
  body: I did not want someone to research for me i thought it was ok to ask in this
    forum for some suggestions, and help since it would enhance the overall topic,
    my apologies.
  created: '2011-03-16 18:25:24'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "Don't know if this fits your search, but it was an integral part of the way
    the building was designed:\r\n\r\nhttp://blog.pentagram.com/archives/Times1.jpg\r\n\r\n
    - Herb"
  created: '2012-03-27 05:37:48'
date: '2007-09-24 13:00:18'
title: Typography in architecture

---
