---
author:
  name: belleisle
body: "First the London 2012 logo and now this!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/wacom_logo_3499.gif]"
comments:
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: omg.
  created: '2007-09-26 14:33:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Take 2 tablets and call me in the mourning.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-26 15:06:03'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: I predicted it in 1992 - Corel Draw would rule the world!
  created: '2007-09-26 15:19:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Corel-a DeVille :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-26 15:26:48'
- author:
    name: brett jordan
    picture: 112129
  body: there is very little about that logo that isn't ghastly, you'd have thought
    that a company like wacom would have more stylus
  created: '2007-09-26 15:29:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Or at least a pendant for style.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-26 15:31:27'
- author:
    name: BradB
    picture: 111285
  body: This was on Design Observer yesterday. I think the type is ok but that "Color
    Thing" is nuts. Is it a bunch of styli coming together?
  created: '2007-09-26 15:49:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I've been using a Wacom stylus for almost 20 years, and upgrade when necessary.
    That is, when the old one which was functioning perfectly well with all the functionality
    I needed is rendered obsolete by operating system changes; it's part of the feature
    bloat \"conspiracy\" to keep milking purchasers by turning them into perpetual
    clients.\r\n\r\nWhen I had to get the \"Intuous\" version, it came with a big
    fat \"kiddy\" stylus, so I sensed that I was no longer part of the company's main
    market. Not really a big piss-off now, just a minor inconvenience, as I move up
    the demographic age categories and become less and less relevant to this kind
    of product developer.\r\n\r\nSo yeah, it's a pseudo-60s kitsch kiddy popcult kind
    of logo, so what. "
  created: '2007-09-26 18:27:57'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Nah, it's just ugly?
  created: '2007-09-26 19:22:18'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "also discussed over at brandnew:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.underconsideration.com/brandnew/archives/that_wacky_wacom.php"
  created: '2007-09-26 19:25:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The \"Color Thing\" looks like an ad for a brushed metal wart remover that
    comes in \"designer\" colors. How can a client go for such a thing? I've seen
    better looking nose hair.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: the type thing is fine though"
  created: '2007-09-26 19:31:54'
- author:
    name: belleisle
  body: "Nick, I would'nt mind also if it was any of the 60s kitsch etc kind of logo
    you describe.\r\nI do mind however, that like the 2012 logo, yet again, WO have
    fallen considerably short of basic design standards.\r\n\r\nA well constructed
    'popcult kind of logo' would have been great.\r\nAs 'brandnew' says, they might
    even have constructed a logo that demonstrates the unique qualities of the product
    itself.\r\n\r\nBut instead they design this.\r\n\r\nPity the poor designer who
    has to incorporate this logo into their next project."
  created: '2007-09-26 20:23:39'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: is this a bit like odvertising. It got people talking, upping the company
    profile in no time. So maybe not such a bad logo in the mean timeI guess the product
    is all about fun. The designers are tripping on something. They can remove a few
    elements and the logo might be kind of normal. Clever or just bad design
  created: '2007-09-26 22:16:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>odvertising</em>\r\n\r\nIs this a new meme?"
  created: '2007-09-26 22:23:27'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: Oddvertising.
  created: '2007-09-26 22:49:39'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: "or oddvertising, bizarre adverts in the 80's that got people talking. Do
    you remember and ad by outpost.com firing gerbals out of cannons. \r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4hny1JSsZII\r\n\r\nmore
    ones in advertising\r\n\r\nhttp://www.ciadvertising.org/student_account/fall_00/adv382j/christiana/theory/page/oddvertizing.html\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-26 23:11:28'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "...<em> Corel Draw would rule the world!</em>\r\n\r\nand what does Corel
    have to do with it? CorelDraw doesn't kill good taste - People do.\r\n\r\n:-)\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-27 02:17:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Glad you took a shot at that one, Russ. :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-27 02:45:48'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "hee hee\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nif one of my students had turned that logo in, they'd...
    \  never mind. one of my students would never have turned in a logo like that!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-27 04:15:26'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: It's...a Spathi Eluder. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/spathiship_4390.png]
  created: '2007-09-27 08:07:52'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "Wolff Olins, please take me in. I can design 50 logos per day.\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-27 08:25:21'
- author:
    name: Nickel
    picture: 113098
  body: I just visited Wacom.com, lets just say, the logo bouncing around really doesn't
    help. I also found it way more difficult, even than before, to find their product
    list.
  created: '2007-09-27 10:35:08'
- author:
    name: belleisle
  body: "You had me for a minute there, chiefdzp.\r\nMaybe I had missed it, it is
    a great post-2012, double bluff. \r\nBad logo = free publicity etc etc etc...\r\n\r\n...but
    no they seem serious. see for yourself at www.wacom.com\r\n\r\nbut wait, maybe
    this awful logo gets 'repaired and retouched' by the wonderful product that is
    a Wacom tablet, over the coming weeks. \r\n\r\nSomeone let me know I was to bored
    to get to end to end web animation find out."
  created: '2007-09-27 11:10:46'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: think vector purple people eater... yukie
  created: '2007-09-27 11:26:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "As David (Nickel) says, <a href=\"http://global.wacom.com/\">the logo bouncing
    around</a> doesn't help at all. I don't think it is a logo but more of a mascot
    (Wolff Olins will have given 'it' a name of some sort). It seems to appears on
    every page of the website but isn't anywhere near the logo.\r\n\r\nAnyway, looks
    like WO have been smart enough to be able to ditch the thing when everyone is
    sick of it (which shouldn't be too long now).\r\n\r\nThe new brand appears to
    incorprate sound too. Listen to the website for a bit and the four notes/chords
    cast an Oriental spell that will gently send you off to sleep which is fine unless
    you have a deadline, in which case why are you reading this?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-27 13:42:15'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: so, anyways...anyone have one of the new Bamboo tablets? They appear to be
    selling for $80. Sounds like a great price.
  created: '2007-09-27 14:31:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Another Wacom, sockum logo, it just doesn't git eeny bitter thin that!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-27 15:20:16'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Let's stop talking about it.
  created: '2007-09-27 15:31:02'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: It reminds me of that muppet with the honking nose...
  created: '2007-09-27 16:11:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "or a 3-headed zit\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-27 16:15:11'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: "Air raid sirens.\r\n\r\n[[http://www1.istockphoto.com/file_thumbview_approve/970911/2/istockphoto_970911_air_raid_sirens.jpg|Example
    1]]\r\n[[http://www.isledegrande.com/giimages6/delherb54.jpg|Example 2]]\r\n[[http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/4/4c/Nice_air-raid_siren.jpg/800px-Nice_air-raid_siren.jpg|Example
    3]]\r\n[[http://www.kcoem.org/Warning/FedSiren2.jpg|Example 4]]"
  created: '2007-09-27 16:28:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Perfect, Gus!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-27 17:10:36'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Yeah, but don't we all really wish that we got sent the check?
  created: '2007-09-27 17:36:58'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "SPATHI ELUDER!!!!!!!!!!!!!! heheheheh I love this logo suddenly.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    there is a port called Ur Quan Masters for OSX. In case you need to waste some
    time piloting a Mycon Podship, Thraddash Torch or Orz Nemesis. Go, go, go, intruder,
    bah, intruder, intruder, bah! or the mighty Pkunk Fury. Worm, idiot, loser...\r\n\r\nI
    digress\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-27 18:26:19'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: Oh, that's a sin-tique!
  created: '2007-09-27 18:52:21'
- author:
    name: Stonetramp
  body: "I've seen so much worse.\r\n\r\nOne thing about graphic design, as I often
    encounter here at work, EVERYONE is a designer, and EVERYONE  is a critic. No
    matter what you do, some people will love it and some will hate it, and the ones
    who hate it are usually intensely righteous about thier opinion.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-27 22:54:32'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Probably another case of money talking the truth\u2026 WO must be doing something
    ok, reaping it in with s**t like this.\r\n\r\nOr maybe we are all out of the loop
    and this is the way things are going to be from now on\u2026\r\n\r\n___\r\nBert
    Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2007-09-27 23:13:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Oh, please let me stay out of THAT loop forever.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-27 23:42:01'
- author:
    name: sihep
    picture: 112339
  body: 'Or this could be a completely different company run by Bud Wolff and Billy
    Olins that just sounds a lot like the famous one. '
  created: '2007-09-27 23:54:07'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: you mean, from an evil, parallel universe?
  created: '2007-09-27 23:57:02'
- author:
    name: sihep
    picture: 112339
  body: Yes, from... The Twilight Zone.
  created: '2007-09-28 00:12:58'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: 'you know, that''s what i thought, too. like the episode of Star Trek when
    the graphic designer gets caught in a "beam up" glitch, and is separated into
    TWO designers: one who uses only black and white, and the other who''s hooked
    on magenta.'
  created: '2007-09-28 00:53:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "We had a conversation about this one in class the other day. Even design
    students think that it\u2019s a disaster."
  created: '2007-09-28 01:12:18'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: Sweet mother of.... What the hell was that? I don't normally slaughter logos
    before I know more about the background. Here I don't need to. No matter the background.
    This is just bad design!
  created: '2007-09-28 02:17:36'
- author:
    name: Hildebrant
    picture: 110392
  body: "The signature is nice, appropriate and an obvious evolution from the previous
    wordmark. The symbol lacks most everything, but it's actually difficult to find
    an application (on the website and packaging at least) that actually uses the
    symbol locked up with the signature.\r\n\r\nIt's easy to blame Wolif Ollins, but
    few of us actually know what happened behind closed doors. I have been a part
    of bad client-driven design one too many times. It's just a fact of life.\r\n\r\nEveryone
    is so quick to through stones."
  created: '2007-09-28 04:59:02'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\r\n>Everyone is so quick to through stones.\r\n\r\n>I just visited Wacom.com,
    lets just say, the logo bouncing around really doesn\u2019t help. \r\n\r\nA moving
    target is harder to hit. ;-)"
  created: '2007-09-28 05:07:19'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: C'mon... a firm with the prestige of W-O isn't going to be bullied into a
    logo like this. This was their solution to the assignment. Do you really think
    Wacom would call a board meeting and announce, "Okay, we found a design firm that
    will implement our own idea for $XX,XXX. All agreed?"
  created: '2007-09-28 06:00:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I just visited Wacom.com, lets just say, the logo bouncing around really
    doesn\u2019t help.</em>\r\n\r\nIt makes me wonder if Wolff-Olins might not be
    a front organisation for an epilepsy research institute. I seem to recall that
    the first Olympics TV spot triggered a number of epileptic siezures, and the way
    the Wacom logo moves in and out of focus as it bounces around the screen might
    be a new trigger test."
  created: '2007-09-28 06:26:22'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Honkers_4677.jpg]'
  created: '2007-09-28 07:04:35'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: '*lol*'
  created: '2007-09-28 13:21:08'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Just a simple reminder.\r\n\r\nSometimes the designer really has no choice.\r\nThey
    have listened to the customer - and have given the customer what they want/expect.
    Even if the designer has a clearer understanding of customer from a graphics point
    of view - bottom line is, you give the customer what they want, you get your check,
    you let it clear the bank - and then you laugh. For there really isn't anything
    else you can do. \r\n\r\nSorry -- that's the real world."
  created: '2007-09-28 13:59:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Honkers, Haley, I think you've got it!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-28 14:09:13'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "<em>Sometimes the designer really has no choice.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't believe
    that is as true at this level of corporate identity -- designer prestige and corporation
    prestige -- as it may be on other levels. Few companies the size of Wacom would
    hire a firm the size of W-O and say, \"We already know what we want. Just do it
    for us.\" It's antithetical to the process. "
  created: '2007-09-28 14:36:17'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Chuck - it happens almost everyday. I'm not saying in all cases. Many times
    a CEO has in their mind exactly what they want -- and there just isn't anyway
    to change that mind - know what I mean...\r\n\r\nWe come from the school of 3
    choices. We design and turn over the 3 thumbprints. The one they asked for, the
    throwaway one and the one we are proud we created. \r\n\r\nMany of us try to believe
    it isn't so... but it is. Especially when the graphic met their expectations.
    So sorry.\r\n\r\n(Pssst, I am speaking mostly of the NYC market - things may be
    different in nice hometown markets...)"
  created: '2007-09-28 15:12:30'
- author:
    name: bruno_maag
  body: "A couple people commented that the type is ok. No, it's not. It's predictable,
    typical graphic designer crap. \r\n\r\nAlthough it's difficult to judge from the
    gif, I'd hazard to say that the execution is pretty amateurish. Probably no-one
    bothered to visually correct the thickness of the horizontal/vertical lines. The
    curves don't seem to be particularly considered either, actually appearing to
    break. And it is certainly inspired to turn the 'w' to make an 'm' - not!\r\n\r\nAnd
    if you look closely, the 'w' optically feels wider than the 'm'. That sort of
    stuff happens when you pay no attention to detail.\r\n\r\nBruno"
  created: '2007-09-28 16:02:45'
- author:
    name: belleisle
  body: "Jackie, I know where you are coming from, but I'm with Chuck on this one.\r\nWO
    see themselves as the cutting edge of the London branding/rebranding scene.\r\nThey
    don't listen to anybody. The appalling 2012 logo proves this...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-28 16:09:22'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>Let\u2019s stop talking about it.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm with ya. We're
    beating a dead horse."
  created: '2007-09-28 16:15:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "People, get with the tour.\r\nThis is next-level wack-its-ill. \r\nGenius.\r\n\r\n<em>...this
    is the way things are going to be from now on\u2026</em>"
  created: '2007-09-28 16:17:12'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: If it was an animated .gif, with the those protrusions pulsating and undulating,
    then it would go far enough over the top to be cool, I think. At least to anyone
    from the hippy generation. Not that I know anything about drug use in my youth;
    I'm just guessing.
  created: '2007-09-28 16:21:36'
- author:
    name: inde
    picture: 112647
  body: 'too bad! '
  created: '2007-09-28 16:56:17'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>One thing about graphic design, as I often encounter here at work, EVERYONE
    is a designer, and EVERYONE is a critic.\r\n\r\nEveryone is so quick to through
    stones.</em>\r\n\r\nI wholeheartedly agree with these comments, as well as Jackie's
    statements. I get a bit disappointed with how quick people seem to tear something
    to shreds. If you've ever had your heart ripped out when a great idea gets killed
    by a client, you might not be so quick to judge. There's no arguing with the multi-millionaire,
    billionaire or CEO who's fronting the bill when they want a last minute change.
    I know many of you know EXACTLY what I'm talking about.\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-28 17:06:41'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: But that doesn't make it good design? ;)
  created: '2007-09-28 17:28:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I know many of you know EXACTLY what I\u2019m talking about.</em>\r\n\r\nIn
    my experience, clients are usually right, and push creative to do more interesting
    work than standard \"good design\".\r\n\r\n<em>good design</em>\r\n\r\nIs that
    award-winning good design, or sales-enhancing good design?\r\nEither is difficult
    to create, both more so.\r\nNon-award-winning \"good design\" is pretty-boring,
    and easily trumped by \"bad design\" in the sales-enhancing department.\r\nFor
    an example close to us all:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/New_6337.jpg]"
  created: '2007-09-28 17:38:53'
- author:
    name: jayyy
    picture: 109661
  body: stop the bouncing
  created: '2007-09-28 17:54:51'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Well, if this is the result of being pushed to do more interesting work......
    ;)
  created: '2007-09-28 18:20:00'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>For an example close to us all:</em>\r\n\r\nAhhhh, yes. A very good point.
    :)"
  created: '2007-09-28 18:30:44'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: '[[Wolff Olins]] has let their Pantone books expire?'
  created: '2007-09-28 19:10:41'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "<strong>Biddy: </strong> <em>If you\u2019ve ever had your heart ripped out
    when a great idea gets killed by a client, you might not be so quick to judge.
    </em>\r\n\r\nJust a quick story for you Biddy - one I think you can empathize
    with. A dear, departed friend of mine was the art director for trade books at
    a very well known publishing house - long before there were computers in the bullpen.
    It was the days when you received lettering from the typographer, that you put
    together to create a logo type, you sent that off to the photo house for some
    transfer type of it and demand a C-print. You went out on a photo shoot and spent
    the wee hours of the morning going through contact sheets before the 9 a.m. publisher's
    meeting -- having it altogether - as a comp, so the non-design functioning minds
    could see what the cover of a book may possibly look like.\r\n\r\nWell, it had
    been just such a night, and the next morning, Madame President was having PMS.
    She was not happy with the design work she saw, and I guess was having a hard
    time verbalizing it - so she picked up her pen and stabbed his work - not just
    one time - but 8 holes worth. We had a very long lunch that day -- and soon after
    he left his place of employment.\r\n\r\nAgain, real world stories for the folks
    that just haven't been there - or done that! But Biddy - I know you know that
    I know that you know exactly what goes on... Nice meeting you fellow graphic arts
    survivor.\r\n\r\nP.S. I would have put this in an I/M to you - but, oops we don't
    have that anymore. So I guess others can read this too!"
  created: '2007-09-28 20:13:36'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Wow. Now that ripped my heart out. :(\r\n\r\nUnfortunately, freak outs of
    this magnitude still exist today. My main point and (I think it has been others)...you
    can't look at a piece of design and EVER know the blood, sweat and tears that
    went into the design.\r\n\r\nIts very easy to judge from the comfort of a chair
    and after the work has been done. \"Blood, sweat and tears\" sounds like a clich\xE9...but
    for those who haven't done a lot of comps...that term can be quite literal."
  created: '2007-09-28 20:30:00'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "Are you against any critique? I'm curious to know if this applies to literature,
    art, cooking, etc.\r\n\r\nI'm just asking. No criticism from me is to be implied.
    :-)\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2007-09-28 21:17:29'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "On seeing the end result, I hope they didn't put too much blood, sweat and
    tears into the project.\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-28 21:19:22'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "wow.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nI don't know if I would ever even think to play the PMS
    card to describe a difficult client."
  created: '2007-09-28 21:32:49'
- author:
    name: belleisle
  body: "I think we are getting comfused about the difference in concept and the design.\r\nAs
    is the case with the 2012 logo, I don't think peple are critising the concept
    here.\r\n\r\nI'm certainly not. If WO have done their brand marketing and decided
    that the best way to represent a graphical hardware company is the sound coming
    from the trumpet like logo they have designed, who am I/we to argue (you have
    to visit the wacom website). In fact I think its quite interesting.\r\n\r\nWhat
    I don't understand is why, like the 2012 logo, basic design skills are'nt being
    applied to the creation of the logo.\r\nWould it be that difficult for WO to use
    skilled type people, as Bruno Maag has outlined above, to create some typography
    that does'nt already look if it is out of date, yet alone something which will
    prevail into the next decade. WO, is a company that prides itself on thinking
    differently, I'm not seeing much difference in the just launched compaq logo -
    \ So much for forward thinking 'next level' typography.\r\n\r\nOn the same basis
    would it have been that difficult, if they positively must have a 3d logo, to
    have drawn it without using basic level illustrator filters. At least think for
    one moment the uses of the product we are talking about here, if nothing else.\r\n\r\nIt
    is will some hesitation that I have posted the 21year old Chermeyeff and Geismar
    NBC logo, I'm bound to have opened a can of worms. However, if only because of
    the colourful nature of both logos, I thought about this as being a logo that
    has stood the test of time. C&G would never have known what the future held in
    terms of digital broadcasting and yet here it is today, still every bit as relevent
    and stylish as when it was designed in 1986. Not bad for a simple bit of well
    crafted 2d artwork.\r\n\r\nAs a design industry are we creating these 3d logos
    because that is the best solution or simply because technology allows us to do
    it?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/compaq_3907.gif][img:sites/default/files/old-images/NBC_6712.jpg]"
  created: '2007-09-28 21:34:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>are we creating these 3d logos because that is the best solution </em>\r\n\r\n3d,
    color, moving.\r\nEverything else is flat, dull, and static, literally and metaphorically.\r\nI
    love this:\r\nhttp://www.marksimonson.com/"
  created: '2007-09-28 22:12:04'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: It's just that everyone wants a fancy shiny 'web-too-point-oo' logo these
    days.
  created: '2007-09-28 23:21:52'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: Nick-- you don't believe that, do you?
  created: '2007-09-29 00:38:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The only thing different between having a static piece of puke and a moving
    piece of puke is that you have a greater chance of being hit by the stuff if it
    is moving.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-29 03:19:51'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: as opposed to just stepping in it.
  created: '2007-09-29 06:07:57'
- author:
    name: belleisle
  body: "I don't get to see the NBC logo that often in London, but that flat dull
    and static logo seems to do OK when it is 3d'ed up and zapped accross the screen.
    It works because good design has been applied to the logo in its most basic form.\r\n\r\nI'm
    just not seeing that in the Wacom logo."
  created: '2007-09-29 08:54:30'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "In a way, I'm happy to hear the NBC logo being dragged into this. I don't
    know the names or places - and it was so long ago. NBC had a wonderful peacock
    from the beginning. Then (it was the 70s or 80s - it's a blur now) then changed
    it to the giant N. They spent a fortune marketing the giant N. They wanted you
    to recognize it from another planet. \r\n\r\nLong story short - it didn't go over
    well - and the peacock, modernized, was brought back.\r\n\r\nI do wonder who sat
    around those creative meetings....\r\n\r\nBiddy - Blood, Sweat and Tears was a
    good group - and brings back good memories... :-) Thank you for being here an
    understanding -- my friend NEVER got over that experience, and now - it's too
    late for him. It did teach him not to be abused...\r\n<em>What goes up... must
    come down... spinning wheel got to go round....</em>\r\n\r\nAnd uh-hum, PMS colors
    - good ones -- also kept many artist up at night trying to pick out the right
    one -- and then wonder why the printer could never match the color... LOL"
  created: '2007-09-29 13:41:38'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "Jackie T, that NBC \"N\" logo is a good example for this thread relating
    to the adoration of the \"genius\" work that the big identity firms can receive
    without merit. \r\n\r\nIt's an infamous story. NBC paid $600,000 for the highly
    heralded identity. They got hammered with a cease and desist order, plus had to
    make a $800,000 equipment donation to the Nebraska public TV station who had already
    developed the exact same mark \u2014 for a whopping fee of $100.\r\n\r\nI was
    going to say that Wolff Olins is safe from this comical mark already being in
    use. But then again, it may turn out that some six year old kid already holds
    a claim to it."
  created: '2007-09-29 15:21:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick\u2014 you don\u2019t believe that, do you?</em>\r\n\r\nYes.\r\nThe
    best example of the \"new effects trump old quality\" principle I've come across
    was a quote from Harold Lloyd, the movie comedian. Sound had just been introduced
    into movies, and his latest silent masterpiece was being ignored at the box office.
    His comment was along the lines of, \"We spent ages making this film, with well
    thought-out gags, it's one of the best things I've ever done, but people would
    rather watch a movie of an egg frying in a pan if they can hear it sizzling\"."
  created: '2007-09-29 16:58:09'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: I agree with Nick, it makes sense. People like new things. Just like fonts
    they great one day, overdone and overused another. It doesn't mean there bad they
    just don't stand out anymore. Like it or not it stands out from the crowd
  created: '2007-09-29 17:51:46'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: I'd rather look at the lasceaux paintings than view an active, rythmic, hdtv
    kanye west video. new effects do not trump old quality in my experience. novelty
    is always attention-grabbing, but that speaks more to our ADD culture than to
    quality, or flatness, or dullness, or stasis.
  created: '2007-09-29 18:18:31'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: when charles marsh said "stasis in the arts is tantamount to death," he meant
    intellectual immobility. he didn't mean that a calder sculpture was inherently
    superior to a rodin.
  created: '2007-09-29 18:25:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Chuck, music videos are old hat--on TV.\r\nBut in iTunes or iPod, not so
    much.\r\nIt's the novelty factor that counts, not whether one thing is newer than
    another."
  created: '2007-09-29 19:09:05'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "I'm not arguing, but trying to understand the implications of your point.\r\nSo,
    the hotmetal type is superior to the handwritten, and the digital type is superior
    to the metal, and the halographic projection of type will be better than the digital
    print... each new form rendering its ancestor obsolete (flat, dull, and static).\r\nAn
    interesting conundrum though: torch becomes candle becomes electric light becomes
    hand cranked flashlight becomes battery flashlight becomes... you know? But what
    happens when the fad becomes retro, as in the resurgent return of \"novel\" hand-cranked
    flashlights, such as are in every store I visit these days? Does the \"new\" old
    trump the the \"older\" new, because of its novelty? I maintain that novelty and
    quality are vey different things, and further, that quality will survive the battle."
  created: '2007-09-29 23:10:26'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: I should say that quality SHOULD survive the battle, or even that quality
    HOPEFULLY will survive the battle. I'm realistic enough to know that bad things
    happen to good designs (sometimes).
  created: '2007-09-30 01:47:56'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: The instant I saw that logotype, I <em>thought</em> it was in the vein of
    that 2012 thing. Perhaps the lesson here is that you can't make every design an
    instant classic, no matter who you are? Are there any great or profound designs
    from the same team released between these two logos?
  created: '2007-09-30 09:09:38'
- author:
    name: funhaus5
  body: "Hideous and amateurish. \r\n\r\n\"Ill-advised\" is a term that comes strongly
    to mind. \r\n\r\nI can only imagine, with no small degree of scorn and horror,
    what the Wolff Olins marks that were rejected looked like. But I'm sure they were
    colorful and \"forward-thinking\". \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-30 11:53:48'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: In any case, to THESE eyes, the logo is a disaster. Not only is it unappealling
    on its own, it's completely UNcommunicative -- it doesn't say ANYthing (sorry-
    I seem to have lapsed into Salingeresque emphasis) . Regardless of novelty.
  created: '2007-09-30 17:03:30'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: I think it does communicate. It says young, fun, lively, musicality or sound,
    pens. Its a matter of taste, i don't like it but then maybe i'm not the market.
    They might be aiming at a very young market. To say it doesn't comminicate would
    be wrong.
  created: '2007-09-30 20:32:39'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "Nick put it this way: <em>In my experience, clients are usually right, and
    push creative to do more interesting work than standard \u201Cgood design\u201D.</em>\r\nthis
    is an important point, and one that deserves repeating. we can trash clients all
    day, because -- let's face it -- it's nice to have someone to blame. but a client
    often DOES push us to do better work. the illustrator jim mcmullen and i were
    discussing this very point years ago when i had just graduated and started doing
    some high-profile work. he said, \"there is nothing like a difficult client to
    focus your work,\" and i've carried the thought with me throughout my career.
    i have to qualify it this way, though: i think the client IS often right, but
    in many cases doesn't have any idea why, in much the same way as a hummingbird
    has the FEELING it oughta fly south in november, without any real understanding
    of why. it's the designer's job to listen, to analyse, (bringing their SKILLS
    into play) to translate what they're hearing from the client into good, communicative
    design. and if, after the client's prodding, the solution is pathetic, it's a
    case of the designer not rising to the challenge, and blaming it on the client
    is just lame.\r\n\r\nto the point of novelty, here's an interesting quote from
    stan the man:\r\n<em>\r\n\"Type design moves at the pace of the most conservative
    reader. The good type-designer therefore realizes that, for a new fount to be
    successful, it has to be so good that only very few recognize its novelty.\"</em>\r\nFirst
    Principles of Typography\r\nStanley Morison\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-30 20:38:59'
- author:
    name: chiefdzp
  body: what a great quote, god is in the details as they say
  created: '2007-09-30 20:58:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>So, the hotmetal type is superior to the handwritten,</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    not my point.\r\nNovelty is a separate principle, nothing to do with functionality.\r\nConsider
    digital type: when it was introduced, its quality was a lot poorer than phototype.
    It wasn't really cheaper either, as the capital costs for graphic designers were
    huge, especially the Laserwriter. The learning curve for going digital was pretty
    intimidating. So from the point of view of job quality and economics, there was
    nothing added for me in 1988 by going digital, just a lot of hurdles. But I couldn't
    resist the novelty, and could see the writing on the wall. \r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nMorison
    was a book-centric Brit, and his quote dates to the days of hand-lettered headlines.
    But even then, there were plenty of novel type designs. He pointedly ignored such
    as Kennerley and Cooper Black, that came outta left field, took the typogrpahic
    world by storm, becoming mainstays of American commercial culture."
  created: '2007-09-30 23:48:14'
date: '2007-09-26 14:18:39'
title: Another logo disaster - Wolff Olins on a roll with Wacom!

---
