---
author:
  name: kris
body: "For those who are interested, Christian has a nice page on [[http://www.christianschwartz.com/metaserif.shtml|Meta
  Serif.]] Apparently it will be [[http://www.spiekermannpartners.com/e_index.html|released
  in October]]! \r\n\r\n\u2014K"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: As background... http://www.spiekermann.com/mten/2007/02/metaserif.html &
    http://typophile.com/node/34616
  created: '2007-09-27 01:33:18'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Its working title was FF Meta Antiqua. I'm glad they went with the duller
    name, if only for Americans and other dullards. Looking forward to pimping this
    wonder on FontShop.com next month.
  created: '2007-09-27 03:01:44'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: ">only for Americans and other dullards\r\n\r\nLike yourself? :)\r\n\r\nThat
    is a beautiful font.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-09-27 03:18:10'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "FontShop: \"Serving Americans and other dullards since 1991\"\r\n\r\nI love
    the new slogan - t-shirts perhaps?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-27 04:20:35'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: "I'm not sure whether to be inspired or discouraged when I see brilliance
    like this on display. I love it! FF doesn't really ever release a clunker, does
    it?\r\n\r\nMust keep reminding myself that my furtive attempts at type design
    is like a high-school orchestra trying to play Tchaikovsky... I'll get some stuff
    right, some things maybe even brilliant, but it'll take years of practice and
    dedication to get consistent at it."
  created: '2007-09-27 04:54:46'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Are you kidding me man? Their catalogue is huge. There are some definite
    clunkers there.\r\n\r\nThey're a really good resource, not my favorite, but good.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-09-27 05:30:53'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Whoops. I was painfully unclear. By "Americans and dullards" I mean those
    who don't really know what an [[antiqua]] is -- and that group did include myself
    until very recently. I was afraid that "Antiqua" might be misconstrued by the
    less-experienced as "old".
  created: '2007-09-27 05:34:27'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Stewf: <em>Its working title was FF Meta Antiqua. I\u2019m glad they went
    with the duller name, if only for Americans and other dullards. </em>\r\n\r\nBut
    just think, FF Meta Antiqua kind of implies the possibility of FF Meta Fraktur,
    which would be really cool."
  created: '2007-09-27 07:00:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'I don''t think the top of the lowecase a is working. In the sans, the apex
    of the a is pushed to the right, which gives the letter a wonderful tension that
    makes it one of the most characteristic aspects of the typeface. Erik always points
    to the funky g as Meta''s most distinctive letter, but since the a is so much
    more common in text it has always seemed to me the ''Meta-letter''. In the new
    serif design, something totally different is happening in the a: the apex is much
    further to the left and this, combined with the heavy terminal, makes the dynamic
    of the top part of the letter completely contrary to what is happening in the
    sans. While the sans a is very tense and carries a lot of character, the serif
    a is strangely bland in comparison, and doesn''t echo the sans as nicely as the
    other letters do.'
  created: '2007-09-27 07:09:14'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "<cite>I don\u2019t think the top of the lowecase a is working.</cite>\r\n\r\nOh
    noes! Does this mean one less customer? What if it works beautifully at 10 point?
    \r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-09-27 09:37:31'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: It's quite charming. Inevitably there were going to be compromises made, but
    you've both done an excellent job in transferring the sentiment to a serif. I
    particularly like the tilting head-serifs.
  created: '2007-09-27 09:45:58'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "I thought in the initial sample from way back from the Spiekermann blog that
    the fonts would get the lachrymal terminal treatment as in DB Serif. I seriously
    misjudged the sample (or I need to upgrade my glasses/brain).\r\n\r\nActually
    Meta Serif looks like it's based on an earlier design:\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/fontfont/ff-meta-boiled/\r\n\r\nSeriously
    tho, crunchy bracketed terminals are so not pretty :-/ but, the italics do have
    <em>some</em> measure of warmth in them.\r\n\r\nMikey :-)"
  created: '2007-09-27 11:16:56'
- author:
    name: peterbruhn
    picture: 110509
  body: "I see in the sample that you have put in \"Xdotaccent\" and \"xdotaccent\"
    in the glyph set \u2013 in which language are those used?"
  created: '2007-09-27 12:13:45'
- author:
    name: Christoph
    picture: 112770
  body: "In Chechen, e.g.\r\nhttp://www.evertype.com/alphabets/chechen.pdf"
  created: '2007-09-27 15:53:23'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: "<cite>Seriously tho, crunchy bracketed terminals are so not pretty :-/</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm
    working on a design with these at the moment, and really, they are not handsome
    features."
  created: '2007-09-27 17:04:10'
- author:
    name: peterbruhn
    picture: 110509
  body: "Thank you Christoph.\r\n (Sorry about the off-topic guys)."
  created: '2007-09-27 18:23:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Kris: <em>What if it works beautifully at 10 point?</em>\r\n\r\nThen you
    need different fonts for different sizes. But we know this already.\r\n\r\nChristian
    writes, on the Meta Serif preview webpage: <em>In the end, I think FF Meta Serif
    has only a passing resemblance to FF Meta, but when you set a headline or a block
    of text, it somehow looks just like it.</em>\r\n\r\nAt larger sizes, such as a
    headline, the a jumps out as simply not very Meta, and undermines the 'looks just
    like it' effect. And its the only letter, so far as I can tell from the images
    on Christian's site, that does this, so of course my eye jumps straight to it
    every time. Looking at it longer, I think part of the issue is the weight movement
    through the lower bowl as well as the position of the apex. The Meta a has a strong
    opposite pull between the lower left of the letter and the upper right, because
    the bowl sags slightly and the apex pushes up and out. This is brilliantly done,
    and makes the Meta a very distinctive and dynamic. The Meta Serif a is a very
    nice, very balanced letter, and as such it is lacking the dynamism that makes
    the sans so interesting.\r\n\r\nLook at the comparison setting of the word 'organized'
    on Christian's site. In every letter except the a, despite the different contrast
    and proportions and the presence of the serifs, the two types echo each other
    very nicely. But the two a's look completely unrelated."
  created: '2007-09-27 19:13:09'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Mike: <cite>Seriously tho, crunchy bracketed terminals are so not pretty
    :-/ but, the italics do have some measure of warmth in them.</cite>\r\n\r\nDo
    you mean the Meta Serif terminals? They are specifically designed to withstand
    a laser-printed beating at 10 point, much like Meta Sans can handle a lo-res thrashing.
    They may not look \"pretty\", but rest assured they can handle their own at small
    sizes!\r\n\r\nJohn: <cite>At larger sizes, such as a headline, the a jumps out
    as simply not very Meta, and undermines the \u2019looks just like it\u2019 effect\u2026
    The Meta Serif a is a very nice, very balanced letter, and as such it is lacking
    the dynamism that makes the sans so interesting.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat can we say?
    We made a serif companion to one of the most popular sans serifs of our time,
    a sans that has been around for 22 years! This is plenty of time for folks to
    look at it, get used to it, use it and form their own opinions and feelings about
    it. As far as I know, drawing a serif 22 years after the sans doesn't really happen
    that much\u2014these days sans/serif families tend to be drawn at the same time.\r\n\r\nSo
    I understand your disappointment with the \"a\". I am glad that you acknowledge
    <cite>despite the different contrast and proportions and the presence of the serifs,
    the two types echo each other very nicely</cite>. To this end, I'm sure you'll
    agree the serif \"a\" plays nicely with the rest of it's seriffed brothers & sisters.
    \r\n\r\n\u2014K\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-27 20:18:48'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Not to harp on the point John made, but before I read his post I actually
    had the <em>exact</em> same reaction to seeing the lowercase "a." I point to both
    that letter and the lowercase g as being "very Meta." All in all though, it is
    a gorgeous face and it works well as a companion with the sans. Fantastic work!
  created: '2007-09-27 21:28:51'
- author:
    name: ybaggar
  body: I like the Serif "a" way more than the Sans one.
  created: '2007-09-27 21:36:56'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: ">But just think, FF Meta Antiqua kind of implies the possibility of FF Meta
    Fraktur, which would be really cool.\r\n\r\nYeah, excellent idea, with a \"ch\"-ligature
    and \u2026 \u2665 I always thought Meta has s.th. very deutsches in it. Rotis
    Fraktur? No, no need for that ;)\r\n\r\nI'm excited to see Meta Serif in extensive
    action, btw. without Meta as a compagnion. \r\n\r\nThe best"
  created: '2007-09-27 22:14:07'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Hi Kris:\r\n\r\nI love indestructible type too. But my favorite treatments
    for this kinda work is cropped ball terminals and hyper-modulation a la Charter,
    Exchange, and Paperback.\r\n\r\nMikey :-)"
  created: '2007-09-27 23:48:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">They are specifically designed to withstand a laser-printed beating at 10
    point,\r\n\r\nGreat, a new motivational poster design for the office... \"The
    laser printed beatings will continue until the fonts improve\" \r\n"
  created: '2007-09-28 02:53:37'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: Now that was funny, Sii!
  created: '2007-09-28 05:26:33'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Kris: Congratulations. I really think your work is terrific, and am glad
    to see you've fallen in league with company that will push you even further. Meta
    Serif looks like a cracker, as does the stuff for Pentagram. Keep it up!\r\n\r\nOn
    another note: there is something deeply funny about people asking for a Spiekermann
    font to look more like the other Spiekermann fonts. Next thing you know, people
    will want a brush script."
  created: '2007-09-28 18:58:17'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Looking at the sample I have to say that solid & impeccable were the first
    thoughts I had. Congratulations. \r\n\r\nRe the 'a' I have to admit that I think
    John is right about there being a stronger divergence there than in the other
    letters I can see. On the other hand, it seems to me that with the serif it would
    be harder to justify the strong arch. The reason I say this is that the arch isn't
    just an affectation. It helps to say to the eye 'this is an a'. It has a purpose.
    In the case of the serif version it is the serif in part that does this job. You
    could pull the serif down, make it smaller & put some arch back in but I wonder
    if it it would end up feeling pretty forced and like there were too many things
    happing in the letter at once. Maybe not. I would have to try it to see. Not that
    I think Kris needs my help. Is this the kind of thing you had in mind John?"
  created: '2007-09-28 19:47:36'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Thanks for the arrows - perhaps you read the Eben thread?\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-09-29 04:18:06'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Arrows?\r\n\r\nWas that '...the thread, Eben'? \r\n\r\nJust in case I wasn't
    clear I am asking Kris & John if they think (or don't) that the presence of the
    serif inherently makes it harder to mirror the sense & tension of the sans a in
    the serif a.  "
  created: '2007-09-29 06:18:33'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Was there not a thread asking if arrows should be included in a font? And
    if so was it not you who was asking?\r\n\r\n\u2026or\u2026\r\n\r\nDo I dream of
    ridiculous notions?\r\n\r\n\u2026or\u2026\r\n\r\nAll of the above? (the most likely
    scenario)\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-09-29 09:00:38'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/35009\">Yes</a>\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-09-29 12:31:55'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I see. And you are thinking of arrows because meta famously was a font with
    lots of arrows in it. Yes? Now I think I have it.
  created: '2007-09-29 15:26:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Leveraging brand equity.\r\nOh, sorry, I thought this was the BS thread :-)"
  created: '2007-09-29 17:08:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Eben: <em>Just in case I wasn\u2019t clear I am asking Kris & John if they
    think (or don\u2019t) that the presence of the serif inherently makes it harder
    to mirror the sense & tension of the sans a in the serif a.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't
    think so, no, because there are plenty of serif lowercase a letters with internal
    tension. The Meta Serif lowercase a is a very well balanced, very static form.
    There's nothing inherently wrong with that, but it looks odd among other letters
    that do have more internal dynamism and especially odd in the context of the strong
    internal dynamism of the original Meta a. So the primary issue is not specific
    dynamism, e.g. that of the Meta a, but a general discrepancy between static and
    dynamic forms. This needn't be addressed by trying to directly emulate the dynamic
    of the Meta a; it could be addressed by introducing any dynamic at all into the
    Meta Serif a. Just give me five minutes with the outline. :)\r\n\r\nBut all this
    should be read in context of the remarks above about different fonts for different
    sizes. As with most other contemporary typeface design projects, Meta Serif is
    trying to do (at least) two things at once: in this case, to be an indestructably
    legible type at 10pt and to 'look just like Meta' at display sizes. And maybe
    the lowercase a indicates the breaking point at which these two goals are mutually
    opposed, because I've no doubt that this letter is legible at 10pt -- even when
    given a sound beating by a laser printer -- but at display sizes it looks nothing
    at all like Meta.\r\n\r\nSo I look forward to the Meta Serif display cut, and
    would actually give it higher priority than Meta Fraktur or Meta Brushscript.
    :)\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-29 20:49:55'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Randy <cite>Congratulations\u2026Keep it up!</cite>\r\n\r\nThanks mate\u2014will
    do!\r\n\r\nMike <cite>I love indestructible type too. But my favorite treatments
    for this kinda work is cropped ball terminals and hyper-modulation a la Charter,
    Exchange, and Paperback.</cite>\r\n\r\nThose are great typefaces. What is \"hyper
    modulation\"? Do you think we should've drawn Meta Serif with \"cropped ball terminals\"?\r\n\r\nPoms
    <cite>I\u2019m excited to see Meta Serif in extensive action, btw. without Meta
    as a compagnion.</cite>\r\n\r\nGreat\u2014so are we!\r\n\r\n\u2014K\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-30 04:46:44'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Paul <cite>Thanks for the arrows - perhaps you read the Eben thread?</cite>\r\n\r\nIf
    you look carefully, I posted four typeface samples with arrows, the last one is
    Meta Serif Black! So yes, I read the Eben thread, but it didn't influence the
    decision. \r\n\r\nNick <cite>Leveraging brand equity. Oh, sorry, I thought this
    was the BS thread :-)</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat do you mean? \r\n\r\nJohn <cite>Just
    give me five minutes with the outline. :)</cite>\r\n\r\nOh really? As you are
    an accomplished typeface designer, you don't need the outline. Just draw what
    you think it should be like and show us. Your five minutes start\u2026now. \r\n\r\n\u2014K\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-30 04:58:04'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I have to admit to being a little entertained by that response. The thing
    is I can imagine an 'a' like John describes and I am sympathetic to his reasoning.
    But at the same time I have a feeling Erik has the 'a' he wants which surely must
    be the point. None of this means that I am less curious about what John might
    conjure up - I am too interested in learning not to be.\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-30 06:21:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Oh really? As you are an accomplished typeface designer, you don\u2019t
    need the outline. Just draw what you think it should be like and show us.</em>\r\n\r\nSure,
    make me do it the hard way. 23 minutes, including reconstruction of the existing
    a.\r\n\r\nOn the left, a scan of the Meta a. On the upper right, my reconstruction
    of the existing Meta Serif a. On the lower right, my revised form echoing the
    dynamics of the original Meta a in the top right and in the lower bowl.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MetaSerif-aRev_5458.gif]\r\n\r\nNow
    we can play the Sesame Street 'One of these things is not like the others...'
    game.\r\n\r\nThe bowl is interesting, because the greater modulation in the serif
    design allows for greater stress than in the sans. If you follow the shape of
    the sans counter in the serif letter, you get a much more static letter, but if
    you shift the contrast to emulate the amount of weight in the lower left of the
    sans bowl stroke, you get something with a similar dynamic, even though the counter
    shapes are now more different.\r\n\r\nKris, please don't take these quibbles about
    <em>one letter</em> as an insult. On the whole, I think Meta Serif looks like
    a really good and eminently useable type. And at text sizes, considering the typeface
    idependent of Meta, the lowercase a is a nice, legible form. But if part of your
    goal is to look 'just like Meta' in headlines and other larger settings, then
    this letter is letting down the side, so to speak."
  created: '2007-09-30 07:04:20'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi John!\r\n\r\nNot bad.\r\nI like the a above more. Maybe it\u2019s the
    reason why I don\u2019t like too much the two a\u2019s on the left.;-)\r\nThe
    a on the top right is rounder where the bowl from above enters the straight stroke.
    More rounder the (difficult) solution there is the better. Excuse my sad English.\r\nNice
    character after all even if it lacks a bit of charme.\r\n\r\nsalute\r\nStefan"
  created: '2007-09-30 10:18:06'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi Alex (metalfoot)\r\n\r\n>Must keep reminding myself that my furtive attempts
    at type design is like a high-school orchestra trying to play Tchaikovsky... I\u2019ll
    get some stuff right, some things maybe even brilliant, but it\u2019ll take years
    of practice and dedication to get consistent at it.\r\n\r\nI know what you mean.\r\nAnd
    really seems that there is left little space for a singular to do things that
    may keep up.\r\nBut I think we should try to do something maybe more romantic,
    spirited, like a symphony with violins of Gustav Mahler, more poetic. That maybe
    doesn\u2019t work on a hundreds of thousands laserprinters, at 5,6 point on monitor
    and so on. Something with soul. Maybe less useful, but beautiful. And to my eyes
    there is much much room left there empty.\r\n\r\nsalute\r\nStefan"
  created: '2007-09-30 11:08:18'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "PS\r\n\r\nlook at the stuff that Enschede typefoundry sells. It\u2019s more
    like what I meant.\r\nForget Fontshop just for a while and keep on working!\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2007-09-30 11:09:57'
- author:
    name: Miguelzinho
    picture: 113147
  body: "Hey John,\r\nYour change of the meta serif seems like nit picking to me.
    The change is so minuscule that it will be impossible to see at text size and
    hardly visible at display. \r\n\r\nChristian say on his site:\r\n<cite>In the
    end, I think FF Meta Serif has only a passing resemblance to FF Meta, but when
    you set a headline or a block of text, it somehow looks just like it.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    think what Christian was trying to say is that the individual letter-forms are
    not identical to Meta sans \u2013 the typeface is a serif and has a much higher
    contrast thus this would be impossible \u2013 but when used in text the accumulative
    aesthetic and feel has a real resemblance to Meta sans. \r\n\r\nAfter all is that
    the goal of making a companion typeface, to simulate the overall aesthetic & feel
    of the original typeface? \r\n\r\nOr should you go through glyph by glyph ensuring
    the glyphs simulate the aesthetic & feel of the original glyph? I think not.\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-30 13:02:22'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<em>In the end, I think FF Meta Serif has only a passing resemblance to FF
    Meta, but when you set a headline or a block of text, it somehow looks just like
    it.</em>\r\n\r\nSo says Christian, and that\u2019s why i involved him (and he
    involved Kris). I had had several attempts at sketching the <em>Brand Extension</em>,
    but i never got across the hurdle of making it just like the Sans, albeit with
    serifs on. The original Meta owes a lot of its idiosyncracies to the fact that
    the first versions never really got finished by today\u2019s standards, they were
    cobbled together over time and the expansion of the family then involved many
    other designers. That is probably just as well because perfection can be dangerous
    and make a face slick and unpersonal. My own sketches never got anywhere and it
    took Christian to take a step back and design a serif companion that is more than
    an extrapolation. We deliberately didn\u2019t want to make MetaSerif as stylish
    and novel as MetaSans was when it was first designed in 1985. It is supposed to
    be an ordinary, legible typeface for all purposes. MetaSans was designed for small
    sizes which didn't stop people using it for headlines even though there is a proper
    headline version. The serif companion will probably suffer the same fate, but
    we never intended each single character to be the exact seriffed equivalent of
    its sans original. MetaSerif feels like MetaSans, and they look good together.
    That was our brief and i think we have achieved that. Which doesn\u2019t mean
    that certain characters couldn\u2019t look different or may even be improved.
    I have learned that there comes a time when things are best left alone. After
    many years at trying to get it right, i now look forward to actually using MetaSerif.
    Only that will determine whether we did well.\r\n\r\nThe illustration shows alternative
    shapes for the drop on the a as a model for other characters.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MetaAntiqua_aaa_5757.jpg]"
  created: '2007-09-30 21:08:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Leveraging brand equity...BS thread :-) \r\nWhat do you mean?</em>\r\n\r\nA
    witticism.\r\nIf I have to spell it out: it's cute to poke fun at others, but
    when creatives mock the vacuous language of suits, there may be something ironic
    when that language perfectly describes their own behaviour. An example of the
    virtue and precison of \"corporate BS\" is the way in which it nails product extension,
    a practice which has become de rigueur for any successful typeface. My comment
    is not one person's criticism of the venality of another's behaviour, for after
    all business is business and I have done such brand extensions myself (Fontesque
    Sans, for instance). So don't take it personally! \r\n\r\nHowever, there may be
    a bit more bite in my wit, if there is more similarity suggested by the name than
    there is formal correspondence between the original and the serif version.\r\n\r\nThe
    interesting thing is how similar sans and serif faces should be in order to work
    together.\r\nI agree with Erik that too much similarity is detrimental, because
    a typographer needs some edge when contrasting styles.\r\nBut on the other hand,
    from a marketing perspective, perhaps the different branches of mega-families
    won't be purchased and used together at all. For instance, TheAntiqua is used
    as a text face in <em>New Scientist, </em>and the sans heads are Dax, not TheSans. "
  created: '2007-09-30 23:23:37'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "on mr schwartz's site, it says:\r\n<em>it needed to be 100% compatible with
    the sans</em>\r\n\r\nwhat exactly does that mean?"
  created: '2007-10-01 01:47:45'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "\r\n>That is probably just as well because perfection can be dangerous and
    make a face slick and unpersonal.\r\n>I have learned that there comes a time when
    things are best left alone. \r\n\r\nDear Mr. Spiekermann,\r\n\r\nI am proud to
    take part at a comunity that seems to be worth for a person like you to post comments.\r\nI
    have read in a book years ago about the making of your Meta that you said it wasn\u2019t
    meant to be too perfect.\r\nSince then I have had in mind this phrase for a long
    time and it did make you very sympatico (this says Leo.org) in my eyes.\r\nAnd
    it helped me in to stand to my own designs.\r\n\r\nI think it is an attitude that
    has to be kept in mind in todays work otherwise we may go nowhere or at least
    have it very hard to begin things and then better them over the time.\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2007-10-01 14:52:55'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "Paul, he probaby it means metrically compatible. It\u2019s something that
    Spiekermann et al. have often done, taking the metrics of Arial or another widely
    available font and use that as a starting point to draw a custom type. That helps
    with existing documents already set in that typeface: they can be switched to
    the new, custom one, without having the text reflow. The same is true in reverse,
    texts set in the new custom typeface can look \u201Csimilar\u201D in Arial et
    al. without text reflow. "
  created: '2007-10-01 16:35:07'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">After many years at trying to get it right, i now look forward to actually
    using MetaSerif.\r\n\r\nI'll drink to that... \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/meta_3780.jpg]"
  created: '2007-10-01 16:44:31'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<em>he probaby it means metrically compatible.</em>\r\n\r\nNo, not at all.
    Besides, when you take one face\u2019s metrics and design another one over it
    (as Arial did for Helvetica), that\u2019s not compatible, but identical. Otherwise
    it would be useless.\r\n\r\nMetaSerif being 100% compatible with Meta means that
    you can mix them in the same line and they will work together without you having
    to adjust the size or the tracking of one of them. We often have to mix sans and
    serif in one document, like an annual report where the text would be in serif
    while the number section would be sans. Or we use sans for captions, subheads,
    listings as contrast to a more traditional serif textface. We did this for the
    Economist, where we contrasted my Officina Sans with the proprietary Economist
    Serif, designed by Ole Sch\xE4fer. This helps navigation, adds interest and makes
    typographic hierarchies obvious.\r\n\r\nI have always liked to add a sans headline
    to serif text, but doing that in the same paragraph or even line was only possible
    with either a lot af adjustments or within one of the mega-families. Some of those
    -- like Rotis -- are simply clones of each other with bits removed or stuck on,
    providing noise instead of contrast. The whole Meta-systemis supposed to solve
    separate typographic problems while keeping a family resemblance. This is not
    a family of identical triplets (there is also MetaHeadline), but sisters and brothers
    or even nieces and nephews."
  created: '2007-10-02 15:33:00'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: Erik, thanks for chiming in once again. I got that impression by watching
    your Personal Views lecture movie, but I now stand corrected.
  created: '2007-10-02 16:27:16'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "Sorry to join the party so late, but I have to say I like it :^)\r\n\r\n
    - Lex"
  created: '2007-10-02 16:49:26'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: In my lectures i do sometimes show the work we did for clients like Bosch
    and Deutsche Bahn, where we make a version of their Sans faces for office use.
    We fit them to Helvetica alias Arial widths so the inhouse people see the real
    corporate fonts in their Word or PPT documents. Some manage to embed those so
    that people outside the organisation still see the real fonts but cannot edit
    with them. Some IT people won't allow embedding (or don't know what it is), so
    then the documents will revert to the default Sans, i.e. Arial. It'll look uglier,
    but the linebreaks won't change. The compromise of fitting a proper typeface to
    Arial widths (which are way too tight) does take some getting used to, but it
    is the lesser of all evils. And having got that process past IT people in big
    organisations like these two means that other companies will one day dare do that
    as well. And once we have better faces as default for Windows, fitting corporate
    fonts to them will be easier.
  created: '2007-10-03 20:09:42'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "I have finally added a [[http://www.klim.co.nz/|page of Meta Serif to the
    KLIM site]], as well as a few other bits and bobs.\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-10-15 07:44:32'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: It's November, I'm queing, it's dark and it's getting cold. Where is it?
  created: '2007-11-01 16:43:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Maybe the Leopard upgrade didn't go so well and that's what's causing the
    delay.
  created: '2007-11-01 17:31:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Also, Kris did put National out this week. Not like he has just been sitting
    about.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-11-01 17:38:07'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "[[FF Meta]] Serif should be available within the next three weeks. Our internal
    launch date is November 19, but it's likely to be live on <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com\">FontShop.com</a>
    and <a href=\"http://www.fontfont.com\">FontFont.com</a> sooner than that.\r\n\r\nThe
    best way to stay up to date is to subscribe to <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fontfeed/\">the
    FontFeed</a> or the FontShop <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/features/newsletters/\">email
    newsletter</a>."
  created: '2007-11-01 22:31:28'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "OK, last-minute-designer Andersson thought he could slip Meta Serif into
    a corporate design presentation, but it's due in 4 hours, so \u2013 maybe next
    client."
  created: '2007-11-02 08:31:57'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Meta Serif is now for sale on the FontShop site!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-12 00:48:42'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Here is the formal announcement of <a href="http://www.fontshop.com/features/newsletters/nov2007_a/">FF
    Meta Serif</a>. Those on our mailing list should see this in their email soon.
  created: '2007-11-14 01:00:47'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Hi there: I forgot to ask... Are these fonts hinted? If so, what type of
    hinting- auto or superduper Tom Rickner mode? :-)\r\n\r\nThanks Again \r\n\r\nMikey
    :-)"
  created: '2007-11-15 07:23:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I went to check out the formal announcement & follow the links around. This
    was an especially convincing presentation. As it should be! Congratulations to
    all involved.
  created: '2007-11-15 18:34:42'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "More here... \r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontblog.de/welche-meta-serif-darfs-denn-sein
    \r\n\r\n...in the German of course."
  created: '2007-11-15 20:22:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Even more... http://ilovetypography.com/2007/11/14/at-last-ff-meta-serif/#comments
    \r\n\r\nWhich generated 50 responses! ilovetypography is in danger of usurping
    the typographica and typophile as the cool place to discuss type, no?   \r\n"
  created: '2007-11-16 05:20:32'
- author:
    name: John Boardley
    picture: 112920
  body: "@sii\r\nTypographica and Typophile will always be wonderful forums for type
    and type-related stuff; so I don't think it's a question of usurpation. It's a
    big (type) world, and iLT is just another part of it. But it's certainly wonderful
    to see there's still much enthusiasm for type. Thanks, sii.\r\njohno (iLT)"
  created: '2007-11-16 09:41:12'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: and the hinting?...
  created: '2007-11-16 10:33:29'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Si - Depends on what you mean by "cool". As for the type chat landscape, I
    think John put it pretty well.
  created: '2007-11-16 20:00:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">and the hinting?...\r\n\r\nMy guess is OpenType CFF, so that would rule
    out the type of hinting you see in say Calibri or Verdana which uses TrueType
    outlines and hints. However, my guess would be that if a large corporate was interested
    in deploying the font company-wide, then perhaps a version would be produced that
    uses TT hints. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si (font bully)"
  created: '2007-11-16 21:42:32'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: Thank you simon! :-) Mikey
  created: '2007-11-17 00:01:42'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "\r\nR"
  created: '2007-11-17 00:19:40'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "well, it's a beautiful typeface.\r\n\r\nHow big a job is it to make a version
    with hinting??\r\n \r\nR"
  created: '2007-11-17 00:22:01'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'That''s like asking how long is a piece of string. You need to look at the
    platforms the fonts are going to be installed on, the sizes at which they are
    going to be used and then pick a strategy (or two). '
  created: '2007-11-17 01:47:18'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "So... more than an afternoons dawdle?\r\n(I have much to learn)\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2007-11-17 02:08:40'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Some more FF Meta Serif on <a href="http://www.fontshop.be/details.php?entry=239">Unzipped</a>.
  created: '2007-11-20 03:21:38'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: Great article, Yves. Love that behind-the-scenes stuff.
  created: '2007-11-20 04:27:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Yes, really interesting Yves; nice job. '
  created: '2007-11-20 04:42:43'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Small Niggle: Kris should also be featured in the font shop pdf of Meta Serif
    too. \r\n\r\nMikey"
  created: '2007-11-20 11:39:20'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: What PDF?
  created: '2007-11-20 19:16:56'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "This one:\r\nhttp://www.fontshop.com/fonts/download.php?docid=4549\r\n\r\nParticularly
    page 4\r\n\r\nMikey :-)"
  created: '2007-11-20 19:21:18'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'We''re working with FSI on that discrepancy. '
  created: '2007-11-20 23:21:42'
- author:
    name: Cesar Puertas
    picture: 110665
  body: "Wonderful job, Kris. I like it very much. Congratulations!\r\n\r\nC\xE9sar
    Puertas\r\ndise\xF1ador (tipo)gr\xE1fico\r\nwww.cesarpuertas.com\r\ncepuertas@hotmail.com"
  created: '2007-11-27 17:03:27'
- author:
    name: vanina
    picture: 113631
  body: Love it. We need to tell Aveda.
  created: '2007-11-27 18:51:08'
date: '2007-09-27 01:21:21'
node_type: forum
title: A peek at Meta Serif

---
