---
author:
  name: cubanica
  picture: 109774
body: "Is there a term for where a horizonal and vertical stem, meet? Particularly
  where the bowl meets the vertical stem in letters like p,q,a,d,b. \r\n\r\nPablo"
comments:
- author:
    name: cubanica
    picture: 109774
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/p_5792.jpg]'
  created: '2007-09-27 17:29:17'
- author:
    name: glytch
  body: Borrowing from calligraphy, this is simply referred to as a "join" or "joint,"
    no? I am not aware of any more specific terms.
  created: '2007-09-27 17:56:23'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "The typographic term is \"branching\".\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-09-27 18:24:04'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "I call it join.\r\nAlso common: junction and juncture"
  created: '2007-09-27 18:25:58'
- author:
    name: cubanica
    picture: 109774
  body: Funny, I have been calling it a joint for lack of a better word. Without knowing
    that that IS the word. Cool.
  created: '2007-09-27 18:42:46'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Two whole people agree with you so that settles it and you must be right?
    (much laughter) You guys need to read a lot more type history.\r\n\r\n\"Joint\"
    has the problem of being applicable to several different areas of typeface anatomy.
    It could be applied to the area where the bar of an e joins the stroke, and where
    the bar of a t crosses the stem, as well as the junction of the stroke and stem
    of h, n, m, b, d, p, q, u. \r\n\r\n\"Branching\" is analogous to the trunk (stem)
    and branches of a tree. It's an intuitive, literate term, much narrower in scope
    than \"joint\" and specific to letters with stems.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/branch_joint_4394.gif]\r\n\r\nA
    star denotes topology answering to a \"joint\". A dot denotes topology resembling
    the branching of a tree.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/brancho_rancho_6099.gif]\r\n\r\nTellingly,
    in faces with geometric topology eg: Futura and Bodoni, h, n, m, b, d, p, q, u
    \ are more branch-like than joint-like. Fonts styled after handwriting, eg: Pristina,
    are markedly branch-like in structure. You could call the junction of the stroke
    and stem on Pristina's h a \"joint\" <em>if you really want to</em>, but to my
    mind \"branch\" describes that one with far more relevance.\r\n\r\nYou wouldn't
    call the crossover point of an x \"branching\" because the topology is a four
    way intersection, and because there's no stem on an x, so \"joint\" is more appropriate.
    \r\n\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-09-28 02:20:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>and where the bar of a t crosses the stem,</em>\r\n\r\nBut surely if
    it crosses, it doesn't join."
  created: '2007-09-28 03:47:21'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Nick,\r\nquite right, so for t and f it should be called a \"junction\"?\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-09-28 07:30:29'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://typophile.com/node/20274?\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-09-28 08:31:01'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<cite>The typographic term is \u201Cbranching\u201D.\r\n(...)\r\nYou guys
    need to read a lot more type history.</cite>\r\n\r\nJames, since you seem to be
    so knowledgeable and have read so much more than us, could you please provide
    some references on the use you suggest, so we can read it? Where are the images
    from you are showing? Or did you make the terms up yourself?\r\n\r\n<cite>\r\n\u201CJoint\u201D
    (...) could be applied to the area where the bar of an e joins the stroke</cite>\r\n\r\nCan
    you provide any reference for that? Has any renowned typographer ever used the
    term in this way? Or did you make that up?\r\n\r\n<cite>so for t and f it should
    be called</cite>\r\n\r\nThe question is not what they <cite>should be called</cite>
    but what they <cite>are called</cite>. I do not think you are in a position to
    define the terminology, James."
  created: '2007-09-28 10:18:49'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Using quasi-botanical and quasi-anatomical similes lead to confusion, I would
    imagine that there are various overlapping terms that could be applied to many
    typographic terms; join (rather than joint) has the benefit of not falling in
    either camp. To my mind branch refers to the stroke including the join but more
    to the stroke, the join itself could be (and is) referred to as a bowl join, neither
    is wrong.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-09-28 12:19:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Doesn't the branching idea come from Owen Jones? (<em>The Grammar of Ornament,</em>
    1856)\r\n\r\nI use the term \"joint\" for both tangential and angular connections."
  created: '2007-09-28 16:05:33'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>I am not aware of any more specific terms.</em>\r\n\r\nThat was true
    until now.\r\n\r\n<em>Where are the images from you are showing? Or did you make
    the terms up yourself?</em>\r\n\r\nI did not make up the terms \"branch\" and
    \"branching\" myself. See below. The images I'm showing are samples I put together
    using common typefaces to illustrate what I'm talking about. Is there some kind
    of problem with that?\r\n\r\n<em>Can you provide any reference for that? Has any
    renowned typographer ever used the term in this way? Or did you make that up?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    improvised. I did say \"could be applied\", rather than stipulating it as standard
    terminology.\r\n\r\n<em>The question is not what they should be called but what
    they are called.</em>\r\n\r\nSee below.\r\n\r\nWhy am I supposedly \"in no position
    to define terminology\"? Because I live in Australia, have only  produced a few
    good typefaces, and lack formal studies? None of that counts because my specialty
    is philology and lexicography. Australia is certainly a cultural backwater, but
    I am as far from the average Australian as you can get in terms of culture, reading,
    intellect and erudition.\r\n\r\nTimD,\r\nif \"branch\" and \"branching\" are so
    confusing because of their quasi-botanical, quasi-anatomical nature, why is \"stem\"
    a widely-accepted typographic term? Few people if any complain about \"type<em>face</em>\"
    either. What about \"arm\", \"beak\", \"body\", \"ding<em>bat</em>\", \"ear\",
    \"eye\", \"<em>hair</em>line\", \"leg\", \"occulus\", \"spine\", \"tail\", and
    \"teardrop terminal\"? All of these except \"leg\", \"occulus\" and \"spine\"
    appear in the glossary of Indie Fonts 1 as well as other type glossaries, and
    are routinely pressed into service in discussions at Typophile. \"Leg\", \"occulus\"
    and \"spine\" show up on threads here too.\r\n\r\nAre you going to opine that
    these terms are quasi-anatomical? \r\n\r\n\"Beard\" as an alternative to \"spur\"
    on a capital G does not appear in the Indie Fonts gloassary either, but some type
    designers I correspond call it a \"beard\".\r\n\r\n\"Bar\" is an abbreviated form
    of \"crossbar\". It shows up as \"bar\" in the <a href=\"http://www.microsoft.com/typography/glossary/ch2.htm\">Microsoft
    glossary</a>.\r\n\r\nQuote: \"BARS\r\nare where you go to drown your sorrows.
    They are also the horizontal strokes that run into verticals in H and A. \r\n
    \r\ne also has a bar, even if it is oblique, sloping slightly upwards, as in Venetian
    faces like Centaur. In that case you might call this a cross stroke, because people
    would know what you mean, but you shouldn't, because a \r\n\r\nCROSS STROKE\r\nis
    really open on at least one end as on t and f and \xD0.\"\r\n\r\nEnd quote.\r\n\r\nIf
    you think the Microsoft glossary lacks credence, what makes you think your opinions
    are any more credible? Typophile's typowiki gloassary is quite good but omits
    \"spine\" and \"occulus\".\r\n/TimD\r\n\r\nWhy do we speak of typeface structure
    and topology as \"anatomy\"? Because it makes sense and is useful in analogy.
    It's figurative use of language. If you don't understand the philiogical meaning
    of \"figurative\", please look it up in a good dictionary. Typographers, type
    designers and type historians aren't the only people who borrow and adapt terminology
    from human anatomy and other disciplines. Architects and industrial designers
    do it too.\r\n\r\nIf you find \"branch\" and \"branching\" objectionable terms
    it may be because you're encountering them for the first time now. Owen Jones
    uses the term in The Grammar of Ornament, and Alexander Nesbitt uses it in The
    History and Technique of Lettering. I can't recall if Bringhurst uses it. If not
    that's a disappointing omission.\r\n\r\nI don't have time to locate specific instances
    in the printed books referred to above because I'm very busy.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&q=calligraphy+%2Bbranching&btnG=Search&meta=\">Google
    search for <strong>calligraphy +branching</strong></a>:\r\n\r\nFrom The Calligraphy
    Glossary at www.callig.ru/misc/glossary.pdf: \"Branching stroke: The stroke which
    connects an arch to the downstroke of a letter.\"\r\n\r\nFrom www.sharonzeugin.com/pdf/Coursedescriptions2.pdf:
    \"We will then modify Italic characteristics such as x-height, slope, arches and
    branching in creating our own personalized variations of the lettering.\"  \r\n\r\nBranching
    is in widespread use by calligraphers:\r\nhttp://www.roehampton.ac.uk/pdp/cc/cc.html\r\nhttp://www.reuels.com/reuels/Calligraphy_Glossary.html\r\nhttp://www.letteringdesign.com/debbyclasses.html\r\nhttp://www.scarletstarstudios.com/blog/archives/calligraphy/\r\nhttp://www.designingletters.com/html/arrghi/struggling.html\r\n\r\nThat
    has to give the term some credence. Tim Ahrens suggests borrowing \"join\" or
    \"joint\" from calligraphy. I must have erred by not suggesting you guys needs
    to read more calligraphy manuals as well. \r\n\r\nWhat I am trying to do here
    is raise the bar. \"Join\" or \"joint\" seem inadequate. \"branch\" and \"branching\"
    are more specific, and linguistically richer, just like \"ear\", \"beak\" and
    \"leg\". But apparently typographers here aren't hip to it, so bugger it, let's
    just call it a \"joint\".\r\n\r\n\"Branching\" may not be the accepted typographic
    term (I concede happily), but typography is an evolving art subject to additions,
    change and development.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-09-29 08:48:48'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "P.S: If you don't understand what I mean now, maybe you will some day.\r\n\r\nPeace.
    Sending you all good vibes.\r\n\r\nThanks & bye.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-09-29 09:25:28'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Consider how these terms came about, are they specific to language, to nation,
    to area, to foundry, to typographer, to college, are they from the same source
    or several, which is correct?\r\n\r\n>why is \u201Cstem\u201D\u2026on threads
    here too.\r\n\r\nEssentially what I wrote was that borrowing terms from other
    areas of classification could be confusing, I didn\u2019t write that it was wrong
    or rare (I wrote that \u201Cbranch\u201D wasn\u2019t wrong). Yes, I am going to
    opine that some of the terms are quasi-anatomical \u2013 where else do you think
    they come from?\r\n\r\n>\u2026what makes you think your opinions are any more
    credible?\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t, it\u2019s not a question of credence but of description,
    if referring to a crossbar helps a correspondent identify a part of a character,
    then, as the glossary suggests, it has achieved its purpose, the fact that there
    are alternative descriptions, some that are clearer or more defined, doesn\u2019t
    mean one is <em>correct</em> and others <em>wrong</em>. Microsoft\u2019s glossary
    describes the leg of a K as a tail; is that more accurate or clearer than leg
    (especially when the top diagonal stroke is described as an arm)?\r\n\r\nIf any
    Typophile members think a typowiki\u2019s entries are inaccurate or insufficient
    they have the opportunity to amend, add or create.\r\n\r\n>Why do we speak of
    typeface structure and topology as \u201Canatomy\u201D? Because it makes sense
    and is useful in analogy.\r\n\r\nYes, it does. Why have you assumed I disagree?
    I am open to other descriptions though.\r\n\r\n>If you don\u2019t understand the
    philiogical meaning of \u201Cfigurative\u201D, please look it up in a good dictionary\r\n\r\nDo
    you mean philological? Or is that insulting?\r\n\r\n>If you find \u201Cbranch\u201D\u2026objectionable
    terms it may be because you\u2019re encountering them for the first time now.\r\n\r\nI
    don\u2019t and it isn\u2019t, otherwise I wouldn\u2019t have been able to partially
    define what I understand by the term, branching is an acceptable extension too
    \u2013 but they aren\u2019t the only terms.\r\n\r\n>Tim Ahrens suggests borrowing
    \u201Cjoin\u201D or \u201Cjoint\u201D from calligraphy. I must have erred by not
    suggesting you guys needs to read more calligraphy manuals as well.\r\n\r\nDid
    he suggest that or would it be impolite to suggest you read the posts? Join, while
    not so linguistically rich, does describe the area that Pablo asked about, so
    does bowl join and so does branch (although I am confused why the Futura h has
    \u2018topology answering to a \u201Cjoint\u201D\u2019 but the area in Pablo\u2019s
    post is \u2018branching\u2019).\r\n\r\nBye,\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-09-29 11:44:16'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Now just a cotton pickin' second, the \"interwebs\" thingy tells us \"branching\"
    is in use by various commentators, from Aiga to Gary Munch.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.google.com/search?hl=en&q=typeface+%2Bbranching&meta=\r\n\r\nhttp://www.linotype.com/38/newsletter.html
    \"The deep <strong>branching</strong> of curves from main strokes helps this humanist
    sans to be very readable at smaller sizes.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.paratype.com/fstore/fonts/Linotype-Ergo_CE.htm
    \"The deep <strong>branching</strong> of curves from main strokes helps this humanist
    sans to be very readable at smaller sizes.\" \r\n\r\nhttp://www.stonetypefoundry.com/Resources/ITC%20Stone%20Specimen%20Book.pdf
    \"The <strong>branching</strong> in the lowercase letters abdgpqhmn is one such
    cursive characteristic.\"\r\n\r\nhttp://www.aiga.org/content.cfm/the-digital-past-when-typefaces-were-experimental
    \"ITC Charter...in its wedge-like serifs and abrupt <strong>branching</strong>...\"\r\n\r\nhttp://blogs.msdn.com/jensenh/rss_tag_Fonts.xml
    \"Candara is a casual humanist sans with verticals showing a graceful entasis
    on stems, high-<strong>branching</strong> arcades in the lowercase...\"\r\n\r\nhttp://typographica.org/001105.php
    \"...the bowl shapes, stressing, <strong>branching</strong> from stems, serif
    design and serif mating...\"\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_western_typography
    \"...Fell italic types were distinguished by high contrast matching the Fell romans;
    wider ovals; a <strong>split-branching</strong> stroke from the stems of m n r
    and u...\"\r\n\r\nhttp://www.magtypo.cz/buxus/generate_page.php?page_id=393&buxus_typo=5ea8e53c4a67bae215f0a61478dd685e
    \"A humanist sans with verticals showing a graceful entasis on stems, high-<strong>branching</strong>
    arcades in the lowercase.\" --- Gary Munch\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/syntax-letter/familytree.html
    \"Linotype Syntax Letter...lead-in and exiting terminals, and the organic <strong>branching</strong>
    of round strokes from main stems.\"\r\n\r\nhttp://www.digital-web.com/articles/elements_of_design/
    \"Typography...Branching: A <strong>branching</strong> pattern is the repetition
    of forking lines, or patterns of deviation.\"\r\n\r\nIt's hard to glean from the
    interwebs how widespread the term is. If it is not widepsread then that is a pity.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-09-29 12:18:03'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>...branching is an acceptable extension too \u2013 but they aren\u2019t
    the only terms.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not saying they are the only terms, but that \"branching\"
    has desirable qualities over \"join\" or \"joint\".\r\n\r\n<em>Did he suggest
    that or would it be impolite to suggest you read the posts?</em>\r\n\r\nMitchell
    Bills borrowed \"join\" from calligraphy. I read the posts but misremembered who
    said it. I don't think you're being impolite. Gee whiz.\r\n\r\n<em>...I am confused
    why the Futura h has \u2018topology answering to a \u201Cjoint\u201D\u2019 but
    the area in Pablo\u2019s post is \u2018branching\u2019</em>\r\n\r\nI wrote: \"...in
    faces with geometric topology eg: Futura and Bodoni, h, n, m, b, d, p, q, u <strong>are
    more branch-like than joint-like.</strong>\"\r\n\r\nI also made a mistake: \"A
    star denotes topology answering to a \u201Cjoint\u201D. A dot denotes topology
    resembling the branching of a tree.\"\r\n\r\nStrike that, reverse it. Other way
    around. A star denotes topology resembling the branching of a tree, and a dot
    denotes topology answering to a joint.\r\n\r\nSorry about that. I had a double
    brain anyeurism at the end of January this year which nearly killed me, and my
    logic functions are not as agile as they used to be due to the brain trauma caused
    by bleeding and fluid pressure during the sub arachnoid haemorrhage part. I can
    still think very clearly but am prone to making clerical errors.\r\n\r\nIn my
    first post I offered \"branching\" as the general term for the joining of stroke
    to stem. Pablo's example is more like a join than a branch. If he wants to call
    it a join that's fine with me. I'm suggesting \"branching\" as an umbrella or
    meta term.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-09-29 12:53:26'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Do you mean philological? Or is that insulting?</em>\r\n\r\nYes, I meant
    \"philological\". It was a simple typo and suggesting you look up \"figurative\"
    in the dictionary was not meant to be insulting.\r\n\r\n<em>---Why do we speak
    of typeface structure and topology as \u201Canatomy\u201D? Because it makes sense
    and is useful in analogy.\r\n\r\nYes, it does. Why have you assumed I disagree?
    I am open to other descriptions though</em>\r\n\r\nI did not assume you disagree.
    I offered rationale to back up the use of the term \"branching\". That's all.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-09-29 13:01:19'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Consider how these terms came about, are they specific to language, to
    nation, to area, to foundry, to typographer, to college, are they from the same
    source or several, which is correct?</em>\r\n\r\nThey're from numerous sources.
    None are neccessarily correct.\r\n\r\n<em>Yes, I am going to opine that some of
    the terms are quasi-anatomical \u2013 where else do you think they come from?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    gather they come from anatomy, and do not see quasi-anatomical terminology as
    a problem.\r\n\r\n<em>...the fact that there are alternative descriptions, some
    that are clearer or more defined, doesn\u2019t mean one is correct and others
    wrong.</em> \r\n\r\nI'm not suggesting that some terms are wrong and others correct.
    Only that some strike me, and other writers, as preferable.\r\n\r\n<em>Microsoft\u2019s
    glossary describes the leg of a K as a tail; is that more accurate or clearer
    than leg (especially when the top diagonal stroke is described as an arm)?</em>\r\n\r\nTail
    in that instance is not clearer than leg. Perhaps they should change it. It's
    a \"disagreeably facetious\" type glossary.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-09-29 13:15:22'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Is there a term for where a horizontal and vertical stem, meet? Particularly
    where the bowl meets the vertical stem in letters like p,q,a,d,b.\" (asked while
    pointing to the...crotch of a...p).\r\n\r\nAs far as I know, the whole thing (in
    the direction of the arrow to the next white space, in the pit of the counter),
    is a join of the branching type, you'd reach just before the round head or reaching
    the shoulder further on the right-hand branch, as opposed to the square head you'd
    reach if you took a left at the branch instead. It's all clear if you start with
    the roots at the feet and follow the trunk up the body through the legs, past
    tails and arms, bowls and ears. Gill probably had other ideas.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-09-29 14:25:34'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>the...crotch of a...p</em>\r\n\r\nLOL. :^) You've got a great sense of
    humour David.\r\n\r\n<em>It\u2019s all clear if you start with the roots at the
    feet and follow the trunk up the body through the legs, past tails and arms, bowls
    and ears.</em>\r\n\r\nSounds like a painting by Rene Magritte :^)\r\n\r\nj a m
    e s"
  created: '2007-09-29 14:45:38'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "The pros of analogous terminology seem to be that they promote some comprehension
    among both the design and non-design communities and have a certain elegance.\r\n\r\nThe
    cons seem to be that they are not always precise or are ambivalent.\r\n\r\nI am
    sure there are other entries in both columns.\r\n\r\nWhat do other languages use?\r\n\r\nCrotch
    works in the tree analogy, bit out of place in anatomy though.\r\n\r\nWish you
    a speedy and full recovery.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-09-29 14:51:18'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Tim,\r\nI suppose I prefer elegance to precision, but I do like precision
    a great deal.\r\n\r\nWe agree to disagree, so to speak.\r\n\r\n<em>Wish you a
    speedy and full recovery.</em>\r\n\r\nCheers mate :^) Sending you more good vibes.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-09-29 14:56:50'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: There is very little in type where there is a broad consensus and even when
    there is there are holdouts and even legitimate exceptions. It's not a matter
    of getting to know & memorize a cannon so much as it is a matter of learning multiple
    ways of doing & describing. That's why something that really does seem universal
    or to have a consensus is such a big deal. Terms for 'type anatomy' are often
    multiple in English - partly because we have a lot of terms to play with. Think
    of bowl, aperture, opening, hole. I bet there are a few more. I don't have a problem
    with avoiding a state of 'orthodoxy' in this case. I even think it's healthy.
  created: '2007-09-29 15:42:54'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: 'All the old typographers I learned from called it either the "crotch" or
    a "notch". Some of the more modest ones would refer to it as the "v notch". I
    use the term crotch in my classes. '
  created: '2007-09-29 16:21:20'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: That refers more to the negative space, though. The notch is on the outside,
    the counter is on the inside, and the join is a stroke between them.
  created: '2007-09-29 18:11:45'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: So the negative space has a name, two names at that(notch/crotch and counter).
    Why do we need to name the positive space? Or do you think positive space is more
    important than negative space?
  created: '2007-10-01 00:02:10'
date: '2007-09-27 17:28:37'
node_type: forum
title: Terminology Question

---
