---
author:
  name: Paul Cutler
  picture: 110643
body: "\u2026am I crazy?\r\n\r\nWait - that's too easy. I like natural media now -
  calligraphy, even bad handwriting like my own\u2026\r\n\r\nI know this is the very
  best place to post this.\r\n\r\npbc"
comments:
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Natural is good.\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2007-09-29 09:15:31'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: <a href="http://www.wulffmorgenthaler.com/striphandler.ashx?stripid=d973d7cd-b5d7-4fc3-94c9-833c48b86430">Sure</a>.
  created: '2007-09-29 09:30:37'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "After satellite photography I like those old flat maps\u2026\r\n\r\nThey're
    sexy.\r\n\r\nOr maybe Google Earth can solve my design problems?\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-09-29 09:52:05'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: <a href="http://www.as8.it/stuff/Piacenza-cartastorica.jpg">Sure</a>.
  created: '2007-09-29 10:44:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Paul, for display letters, if a designer had time, a better job could be
    done by hand.\r\n\r\nFor reading masses of text, a type face is better than hand
    writing. I think is was Stanley Morrison who said that the magic of type is all
    in the \"multiplication\". You can take the stuff and immediately create masses
    of text and headlines, and get it out quickly. And it will be more readable than
    a scribe could produce. \r\n\r\nIn interviews Matthew Carter has said something
    similar. He doesn't care about producing type for 'fine printing' where people
    spend hours over kerning display. His pride is producing types that people can
    slot into formats in magazines, newspapers and books, and they consistently look
    good and readable.  "
  created: '2007-09-29 13:17:33'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "There is no doubt that I'm about to create way too much work for myself,
    but I feel like I'm turning a corner, I want to be warmer in my approach.\r\n\r\nI
    wish to rephrase myself - I am not anti-font or anti-computer - I am pro-flaw\u2026\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-09-29 17:06:33'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I think we will see smarter fonts that actually solve the sort of problems
    that hand lettering can before too long. We are already seeing a few.\r\n\r\nSo
    what kind of flaw are you in favor of? Care to show us an image?"
  created: '2007-09-29 17:38:13'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "> <em>I am pro-flaw...</em>\r\n\r\n<cite>Let us work with love and without
    fear of our faults, those inevitable and habitual companions of the great qualities.
    Yes, faults are qualities; and fault is superior to quality. Quality stands for
    uniformity in the effort to achieve certain common perfections accessible to anyone.
    Fault eludes conventional and banal perfections. Therefore fault is multiple,
    it is life, it reflects the personality of the artist and his character; it is
    human, it is everything, it will redeem the work.</cite>\r\n- James Ensor (Belgian
    Symbolist painter), 1923"
  created: '2007-09-29 19:24:44'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "very nice quote - thank you\r\n\r\nEben - I'm done showing work on design
    boards but I will try to explain what steps I'm taking - last year I did key art
    again for a festival I've been working on since 1999. Each year it was based on
    a photo that was manipulated this way or that way. This time I manipulated it
    to achieve the colors I wanted, then hired a friend of mine who is a really talented
    painter. I didn't even know it at the time but it was my first step in this journey
    that somehow crystallized this morning, after I pondered what I wrote last night
    - that I was anti-font.\r\n\r\nMany times in my life I've had to figure out what
    I'm against in order to figure out what I am for.\r\n\r\nAs of this morning I
    am no longer anti-font or anti-computer - I am for hand lettering and painting,
    illustration and the wayward journey of the human hand.\r\n\r\nFilters in Pro
    Tools that try to simulate analogue processes are pale in comparison to actual
    tape compression.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-09-29 20:12:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Every generation of technology gains and loses, can do things that no other
    can, or that others can only emulate, losing that \"natural\" quality.\r\nA drum-kit
    performance of the drumming in Aphex Twin's \"Bucephalus Bouncing Ball\" is impossible."
  created: '2007-09-29 20:37:49'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi ellason,\r\n\r\nthanks also from me for the quote. Well said.\r\nStrange
    that it seems so hard for designers or people in general to say things like that
    today.\r\nEven more strange if we think that today we are so much less perfect
    than the folks of the past.\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2007-09-29 20:59:28'
- author:
    name: ffetish
  body: "Traditionally, Japanese aesthetics have made a virtue of imperfection. There's
    also a neo-Luddite strand of postmodern thought which celebrates malfunction/chance
    as the last bastion of resistance to the onslaughts of the machine. \r\n\r\nFor
    what it's worth. "
  created: '2007-10-02 09:06:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: And then there's Default System Design, in which fonts don't matter one way
    or the other.
  created: '2007-10-02 09:21:09'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I'm pro content (which is funny considering my digressions). Ever use the
    original Moosewood cookbook? I've always admired that as a piece of work.\r\n\r\nffetish\u2014the
    green tea cups that have faults are considered the most desireable or worthy of
    conversation."
  created: '2007-10-02 17:43:40'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "The more I know about food & cooking the less good I have to say about the
    Moosewood cookbooks. Why are you so keen?\r\n\r\nNick, tell us more about this
    'Default System Design'. It sounds interesting.\r\n\r\n<cite>Traditionally, Japanese
    aesthetics have made a virtue of imperfection.</cite> This statement is too broad
    a generalization. Historically this not always been so. And there are class issues
    & a variety of other important contradictions. Although it has been so more often
    & for longer than is common elsewhere. That much is true. \r\n\r\n<cite> As of
    this morning I am no longer anti-font or anti-computer - I am for hand lettering
    and painting, illustration and the wayward journey of the human hand.</cite> I
    am sympathetic but I can't agree. I think it's our job when we design things to
    think about what will work. Closing off an avenue prematurely seems silly to me.
    But of course sometimes 'limitations' are freeing and 'freedom' constrains. I
    suppose it depends on who you are & how you feel/work best."
  created: '2007-10-02 18:24:39'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Some of the Moosewood cookbooks are awful, and I honestly don't think they
    even tried the recipes. But, the original has been a good friend and the majority
    of the book is handwritten/illustrated and a nice example of what Paul is talking
    about.
  created: '2007-10-02 19:01:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> more about this \u2019Default System Design'</em>\r\n\r\nhttp://linedandunlined.com/2003/09/01/default-systems-in-graphic-design/"
  created: '2007-10-02 20:47:58'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> handwritten/illustrated and a nice example of what Paul is talking
    about.</cite>\r\n\r\nOkay I see that. But I think that actually it isn't what
    Paul is talking about. Obviously Paul can tell us if you or I am right in our
    guesses. The reason I guess 'not' is that despite being made by hand; Moosewood's
    aesthetic is consciously casual rather than artful. It was meant to be 'artless'
    or unaffected and 'real'. This means that the pictures and the letters are not
    too overly nice. I think the the casualness was also meant to point to freedom
    and beauty not on the page but off it. In contrast what Paul seems to be interested
    in is the authentic beauty of fine handmade stuff. To me these are opposed aesthetics
    even if they are both made by hand.\r\n\r\nThanks Nick!"
  created: '2007-10-02 22:02:30'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> tried the recipes </cite> \r\n\r\nI wonder if they did & didn't know
    it wasn't good. Hippie food is deeply naive and superficial stuff."
  created: '2007-10-02 22:03:58'
- author:
    name: paul.halupka
    picture: 113075
  body: "i think that there is definitely no way to beat the human hand. even in the
    digital world, we try and incorporate the touch we need... through wacom pads
    and the like. even so, something is lost when the computer converts our tiny muscular
    imperfections into pixels or beziers. mistakes and imperfections are impossible
    to avoid in handwork, which is what makes it irrevocably human.\r\n\r\ni can't
    say i'm anti-font, but i sure as hell would love to make a career out of hand-lettering
    everything. zapf got his start with calligraphy on WWII maps, no? i think that
    even with the most brilliant opentype coding, there won't be anything that really
    gets you where pen-and-ink gets you. deep blue can win a hell of a chess match,
    but it won't ever have a conversation over a game in some NY park.\r\n\r\nif nothing
    else i'm glad we have these realizations... we love the machine, but it's great
    to remember that we don't need it."
  created: '2007-10-02 23:25:40'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I am for the human hand right now - not that I can completely implement this
    or will be allowed to - but I am going to try.\r\n\r\nI have been a computer musician
    for going on 15 years and as time went by it got more and more unsatisfying. No
    matter how hard you try it's too perfect (actually the harder you try to make
    it imperfect the more perfect it becomes). I'm still a computer musician although
    I feel that way, except now I use it pretty much like you would use a reel to
    reel tape recorder - no click, no copying and pasting, etc\u2026 I do like virtual
    instruments since I used to be a pianist.\r\n\r\nActually one thing I thought
    of when I was pondering this was the Betsy Johnson ads from about 10 years ago.
    At the time I hated them but I remember them, unlike 99% of the other adverts
    I was exposed to.\r\n\r\nThe Moosewood cookbook is a classic, whether or not you
    like \"hippie\" food.\r\n\r\nEben - I learned from music that some of the best
    situations are the most limited - when you have all the freedom in the world it's
    hard to put together 12 songs that make sense together.\r\n\r\nI also believe
    that life (and consequently creativity) is spurred on by microcosmic observation.
    Then you expound on what you have observed. At least that's how it works for me.\r\n\r\nIt
    started with a painting and blossomed\u2026\r\n\r\n\u2026into what remains to
    be seen.\r\n\r\npbc\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-03 04:37:31'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d4P-Hgatd-0|Bon voyage!]]\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-03 16:45:51'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "<em>Hippie food is deeply naive and superficial stuff</em>\r\n\r\nNow that's
    a T-shirt! \r\n\r\nAlso, I like Paul's pro-flaw rational in a general, but a wrong
    note or flawed harmonic in music, or a wrong spice or improper ingredient in cooking,
    can ruin the overall effect. That said, I like the recordings of Glenn Gould humming
    to himself as he's playing. Or Ella Fitzgerald forgetting the words as she's singing
    Mack the Knife. It adds a \"to err is human\" element to each piece. So I guess
    I'm not pro-flaw but I am pro-human."
  created: '2007-10-03 16:48:01'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I used to produce records - about 40 of them all told.\r\n\r\nThe best thing
    that can ever happen is a great mistake.\r\n\r\nNot all mistakes are great, most
    aren't, but the ones that are great overhwhelm most intentions. Nothing is more
    surprising.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-10-03 17:29:28'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "Well said, Mr. Cutler. I concur. The best thing that can ever happen is a
    great mistake.\r\n\r\nFor example, I like to make collage art...with commercially
    printed paper images I cut with an x-acto, or tear. There is so much more pleasure
    in the risk taking that happens when you aren't allowed to second guess yourself
    or decide, \"I don't like that,\" and back up in Photoshop. More power to the
    human hand and physical reality!\r\n\r\nI have enjoyed this thread and thank you
    for starting it...back with the \"I hate computers\" bit, I believe."
  created: '2007-10-03 18:08:48'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "I'm pro-\"great mistakes\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-03 18:17:49'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "BTW, I still like records. THANKS PAUL!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GOR_4298.jpg]"
  created: '2007-10-03 19:34:54'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "jupiterboy - those were my pleasure, believe me\u2026 :)\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-10-04 02:30:41'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "ugh\r\n\r\nsuddenly i am anti-typophile.\r\n\r\n-----------------------\r\nChopper
    Reid says \"Harden the fuck up\".\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-04 04:11:43'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "I am anti-my handwriting. And anti-me writing. I love fonts. I'll take all
    the ones you don't want anymore.\r\n\r\nDifferent strokes...\r\n; )"
  created: '2007-10-04 04:27:45'
- author:
    name: thetophus
    picture: 112453
  body: I feel you, Paul.  I'm at a point where I'm trying to push my typographical
    style beyond what pre-made typefaces can offer.  Yet I still love typography.  So
    perhaps that means I am anti-typeface?
  created: '2007-10-04 04:54:54'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi Paul,\r\n\r\nI like your points of view.\r\nAbout observation and making
    imperfections.\r\n\r\nI think we only will be able to understand natural form
    by observing them with as much attention as possible. For myself as an example
    I use to work on my letter shapes while I\u2019m watching the form (as an example)
    of a human hand and so on. Nature and body do show quickly the mistakes (in a
    negative sense this time) we make when we make forms too even, too clean, too
    slick. And at the same time sometimes it scares me with how much systemic work
    usually typedesigners find their forms (see for example the recent thread about
    Meta serif)  by excluding the \u201Ewrong ones\u201C making lists and red crosses
    below the forms that find their way in the final design.\r\nWhy is it so hard
    in digital age to work with feeling and intuition, inspiration as ever you will
    name it? Less system more nature.\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2007-10-05 11:33:30'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "<cite>Eben Sorkin - Care to show us an image?</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm probably
    going to get slaughtered for the Eurostile but here are a couple of examples of
    putting this into action:\r\n\r\nI commissioned a painting for this years Coachella
    identity and had it shot with a 1DS MK III:\r\n<a href=\"http://pages.sbcglobal.net/pbc1313/allgraphic/coachellahigh2.jpg\">Coachella
    2008</a>\r\n\r\nThe Foo Fighters asked me for an old school punk flyer and poster:\r\n<a
    href=\"http://pages.sbcglobal.net/pbc1313/allgraphic/foofighters.jpg\">Foo Fighters</a>\r\n\r\nI
    am really having fun with this\u2026\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-02-03 18:31:45'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Vacuum tube bomb! Has that been done before?
  created: '2008-02-03 19:50:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Paul, there is no natural media--other than drawing with your finger in the
    sand, or perhaps Clotilde Olyff's pebble alphabets.\r\n\r\nI make all my fonts
    by hand, and draw them with a stylus and tablet. Is that old school or what?!\r\nThere
    are accidents too, software is so accomodating (David Carson made a career out
    of it).\r\nThe accidents are perhaps not quite so accidental as a slip of the
    wrist, it's more like \"I wonder what would happen if I pushed this button\" --
    and if you don't like it you can erase and try the next Photoshop filter.\r\n\r\nI
    think it's cool when people do their own lettering or make (or commission) their
    own fonts, rather than using something off the shelf. I'm always amazed at the
    bogus use of script fonts, especially grungy ones. It's somewhat absurd to use
    a font to create a rough handrwitten effect when anyone can do it with a pen and
    a scanner, and the font effect looks phoney whereever there's a double-letter
    combination and they're both identical. Like that scene with the cat twice in
    The Matrix, there's something going on that's not quite right."
  created: '2008-02-03 20:27:41'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Nick - if you remember I backed far away from the title of this thread. I
    am just trying to incorporate more hand done work. A lot of you guys are so talented
    that I definitely hesitate to post anything here but I thought I should offer
    a proof of concept or two. The Coachella piece really looks good in print and
    I'm planning a commemorative poster that I think is going to work really well.\r\n\r\nI
    am not dumb enough to think that I am some revolutionary doing something brand
    spanking new - but it's new for me - I am having a lot of fun and the clients
    are very pleased.\r\n\r\nAs for the test tube bomb - can't take credit for that
    - the Foo Fighters incorporated it into their last ad mat but then decided they
    wanted something \"rougher\". So I traced a bunch of stuff, tore some paper, scanned
    and put it together.\r\n\r\nI wanted to go the over-Xeroxed route but the machines
    are way too good now. They just don't mess is up enough.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-02-03 20:36:02'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>It\u2019s somewhat absurd to use a font to create a rough handrwitten
    effect when anyone can do it with a pen and a scanner, and the font effect looks
    phoney whereever there\u2019s a double-letter combination and they\u2019re both
    identical.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou\u2019re right, but the simple fact is that most designers
    can\u2019t even think of how to letter well enough to produce those scripts in
    the first place. There are a lot of design programs out there that don\u2019t
    offer any training in lettering or calligraphy, and it\u2019s not an easy talent
    to pick up on one\u2019s own.\r\n\r\n<cite>I wanted to go the over-Xeroxed route
    but the machines are way too good now. </cite>\r\n\r\nPlay around with brightness
    and contrast settings on really nice digital copiers will trash letters after
    about 15 generations or so."
  created: '2008-02-03 20:40:29'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I probably won't have to do another \"retro\" piece like this for a while
    but I will keep in mind the brightness and contrast settings.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-02-03 21:01:17'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Paul, thanks for posting these. :-)
  created: '2008-02-03 21:21:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>most designers can\u2019t even think of how to letter well enough to
    produce those scripts in the first place.</em>\r\n\r\nI wasn't talking about fancy
    scripts, but stuff that's supposed to look like normal scrawl.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-03 21:24:13'
- author:
    name: maltelunden
    picture: 113747
  body: "I really enjoyed reading this thread, thank you!\r\n\r\n\u2013 <em>M</em>"
  created: '2008-02-05 00:41:05'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>It\u2019s somewhat absurd to use a font to create a rough handrwitten
    effect when anyone can do it with a pen and a scanner, and the font effect looks
    phoney whereever there\u2019s a double-letter combination and they\u2019re both
    identical.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhich is where open type can be very handy. I was hand-lettering
    a lot of type for a book project recently and they kept changing the copy, which
    meant... lots of elbow grease rewriting it. I finally commissioned a font based
    on my handwriting but I had the font designer work in alternate characters and
    ligatures for common words or letter combinations (such as 'ing', 'and', 'th'
    and such). It was a happy compromise, still looks handlettered - and original
    - but much easier for me to work with."
  created: '2008-02-08 21:13:27'
date: '2007-09-29 09:09:45'
node_type: forum
title: "Suddenly I'm anti-font\u2026"

---
