---
author:
  name: bendy
  picture: 112931
body: Please see my last post for current thoughts...thank you :)
comments:
- author:
    name: glyphobet
    picture: 112278
  body: "It's pretty obvious that you've assembled these letters from components.
    They are very good looking components, and this is a great way to start, but now
    the letters need some individual personality. \r\n\r\nThe un-connected horizontal
    in the A is great. a, c, e could be mistaken for glyphs in a sans-serif font.
    The tops of the D and R (and q) look really weird to me. I'd straighten out the
    part where the bowl meets the counter. The curves in the f and j are too straight,
    bend them more. The g is great, keep it, it fits, and maybe add some serif-ness.
    The tops of the verticals in the H should match the uppercase I, not the lowercase
    l. The r has some outline problem -- very faint white space between the vertical
    and the ear.  The S and s are falling over to the right (a common problem). The
    shaved-off bit on the t is just the kind of personality I think you should add
    elsewhere. The flair at the end of the z is good, keep it. The & is too wide or
    bulging -- make the backwards moving part of the curve less horizontal. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-30 05:20:17'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thank you for this. Components: yes. That was the only way I could imagine.
    I have much to learn. I was concerned the letters looked slightly disparate, as
    though from different fonts. Perhaps that's because they were made from bits.
    Yes they definitely need more work. \r\nThe a,c, and e wanted to stay nice and
    open and I couldn't see how to fit serifs into them. I quite like the straightish
    ends.\r\nYes, the D and R and q looked funny to me...didn't know I was allowed
    to straighten that part! I don't like the & at all.\r\nWell I'll play with it
    some more. Thanks for the tips."
  created: '2007-09-30 10:57:03'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I like that 'A' as well, although I think the left stroke is probably a bit
    too thin. Some of your other caps have the same problem.\r\n As for the sans-serifness
    of the 'a' and 'c', try incorporating subtle vertical spurs on the top terminals
    (and maybe on the 'r' as well), look at your question mark! That is what I mean,
    basically.\r\n\r\nThe 'b' looks fine. As Matt already pointed out, the tops of
    the 'D', 'R' and 'q' aren't working. I think the 'q' should resemble the 'b' more.
    Somehow I think the crossbar of the 'f' should be flipped on a horizontal axis,
    as in that the shaved off slope is going downwards, instead of upwards. The serif
    on the 'G' looks a bit attached. The top serifs on the 'H' don't look right, I
    think they should be more like the bottom serifs. \r\n\r\nI like where you are
    going with the 'k', though it could use a bit of character. The 'o' has very bumpy
    curves, as does the bottom of the bowl of the 'q'. Apart from the 's' leaning
    to the right, I think it is too light, the spine can use some more weight. I like
    the 'v' and the 'w'. Last, look at the stress of your contrast, I don't think
    it is completely vertical. If not, the counter of your 'o' is vertical, it should
    probably be rotated a bit, to echo the stress of the rest.\r\n\r\nI think all
    in all it could become a very nice typeface. :)\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-30 14:39:37'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "I think your overshoot at the baseline is too big. Take \"n\" for instance.
    The right stroke goes too low.\r\n\r\nLetters have different weight. \"a\" is
    heavier than \"c\" for instance.\r\n\r\nYour S, s and & are falling right.\r\n\r\nI
    like what you did with \"z\" on the bottom, but you'll have to balance it. It
    looks like the bottom is going too far to the right.\r\n\r\n\"g\" looks smaller
    than other letters (compared perhaps to p and q) because you tried to box it to
    the descender. Bowls are normally smaller with this style but this one definitely
    looks smaller than other letters.\r\n\r\nIs this font supposed to be a mixture
    between serif and sans serif? If not, you're going to have to do something about
    completely sans serif letters (e and c)."
  created: '2007-09-30 21:33:12'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: It is very nice to have honest and constructive advice where to take this!
    Thank you. I will iron out the bumps and see where other letters want to go. Await
    next instalment! Cheers,
  created: '2007-09-30 22:41:56'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "There are a few colour issues as well. Look how heavy the 't' appears compared
    to how light the 'E' is, for example. I think this has a lot of potential, and
    I love the 'k'.\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2007-10-01 06:18:08'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: This is all very encouraging. The stems on the capitals want to be thicker
    than on the lowercase. Is that normal? And the curves want to be thicker than
    the straights? As I said, no technical knowledge, just experimenting and finding
    what looks right. This is quite possibly far too ambitious. But I guess I won't
    find out unless I play. Thanks so much!
  created: '2007-10-01 23:52:27'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Yeah, it's quite normal for capitals to look thicker then lowercase. And
    curves/diagonals to look thicker then straights. You have to optically correct
    these illusions. \r\nBut usually it only takes a couple of units thinner to fix
    it."
  created: '2007-10-02 02:39:11'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Yes, that seems to do it. Busy on the ampersand, colour, wobbly curves and
    those letters which didn't work yet. Still have most of the uppercase to try too.
    It gets quite addictive, no? ;)
  created: '2007-10-02 17:16:12'
- author:
    name: glyphobet
    picture: 112278
  body: "Just to clarify; there's absolutely nothing wrong with starting a font from
    component parts. Don't feel bad about that. I just meant that it should be a first
    step. :)\r\n\r\n-matt"
  created: '2007-10-03 07:10:51'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: 'Thanks :) It was very definitely just a first step! '
  created: '2007-10-03 13:38:59'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "It's noyce! (very nice)\r\n\r\nThere are loads and loads of successful seriffed
    fonts with a <strong>g</strong> of these \"small\" proportions. It's not so abnormal.\r\n\r\n<strong>t</strong>
    only looks heavy compared to <strong>E</strong> when they're next to each other,
    mainly because E contains a lot of white space. <strong>t</strong> looks fine
    in other combinations. The point: typeface design involves compromise. Certain
    combinations are always going to look awkward. Some type designs manage to minimize
    awkward combinations, but this one has design parameters that do not allow that
    degree of optimization. Awkward combinations are something you'll have to live
    with. \r\n\r\n<strong>c</strong> and <strong>a</strong> need serifs. <strong>e</strong>
    rarely, if ever, has a serif in seriffed fonts. Look at Charter for example.\r\n\r\n<strong>r</strong>
    could benefit from more weight at the end of the stroke---a serif might do the
    trick.\r\n\r\nThe established convention for stroke width is that capitals have
    a slightly heavier stroke than lowercase letters, because they are larger and
    appear more natural this way. I don't make this stuff up. Other type designers
    do.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-10-04 04:44:57'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "thanks. i can still fatten the E and slim down the t as long as they fit
    with the other characters, right?\r\n\r\nYes, i am beginning to think the a and
    c need serifs. i wonder if it will begin to look like the Guardian typeface. i
    hope not.\r\n\r\nthe thing with the g was that i didn't actually like it very
    much and thought it looked out of character somehow. I'm still playing with ideas
    at this stage. :)\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-04 16:18:38'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>...i can still fatten the E and slim down the t as long as they fit with
    the other characters, right?</em>\r\n\r\nIf you really weant to do it that way.
    I wouldn't. Leave <strong>t</strong> and <strong>E</strong> as they are and test
    them with other characters to see how they look. <strong>t</strong> only looks
    heavy compared to <strong>E</strong> when they\u2019re next to each other. Certain
    combinations will look awkward. Test <strong>t</strong> with other characters,
    test <strong>E</strong> with other characters. If <strong>t</strong> looks okay
    with other characters there's no reason to change it. Same goes for <strong>E</strong>.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-10-04 18:00:04'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: See the Draft 2 version. Comments/tips/criticism needed please! :)
  created: '2007-11-09 11:23:01'
- author:
    name: Gary Long
    picture: 112662
  body: Just looking at Eternal Draft 2. The "e" somehow bothers me---seems top heavy.
    The "s" and "S" I think need to be stronger at the lower terminal. Overall I like
    where this typeface is going.
  created: '2007-11-11 21:16:33'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "i think i'm going ahead with the semiserif idea, for now...perhaps a full
    serif sibling later. (maybe a sans if i really get into this!)\r\nNow putting
    a spur on the U and wondering about that e. it was the starting point for the
    whole font and i liked it but perhaps the tail can be longer or something. \r\ni
    can't seem to get the numbers right.\r\n:("
  created: '2007-11-20 20:28:53'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Hi Ben. The spacing works for display sizes, but the paragraphs of text look
    a bit tight.\r\n\r\n<strong>e</strong> looks okay to me. Take a holiday from your
    concern with it and deal with it later if it's still bothering you then.\r\n\r\nNew
    binocular g looks fine.\r\n\r\nLower case <strong>s</strong> is more problematic.
    Make a replacement s with serif on bottom arm and post a revised PDF for feedback.\r\n\r\nThe
    thick strokes on lower case <strong>w</strong>, <strong>v</strong> and <strong>y</strong>
    need to go on a weight loss program ;^)\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-11 18:08:21'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: thanks james for that. i tried using the font in word and suddenly realised
    the M, N, W, w and v both uc and lc are really too narrow. metrics still difficult
    and i'm trying thicker bottom of s perhaps will add serif there too... can't get
    my 2,3, and 4 to look right...will post new version when have a moment soon hopefully.
    i rather like the e. what about the ear of the g? maybe needs to be straight?
    Italic is looking nice i think so i'll add that in the next pdf. thanks :) for
    all the ideas.
  created: '2007-12-11 19:36:57'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: do you think this generally works better as a display font than a text one?
    i know that's not what you said with reference to the spacing but perhaps that
    is what it should be. but then perhaps the contrast should be higher?
  created: '2007-12-11 19:41:42'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Yes v could be wider. w and y look okay---they're functional in the text
    run.\r\n\r\nEar of g -- make it larger at the free end tip, and bring it up further
    above x-line for collision avoidance.\r\n\r\n<em>do you think this generally works
    better as a display font than a text one?</em>\r\n\r\nThe design and detailing
    make it shine the most in display applications, altho it's surprising how capable
    it is at text. Before you go widening sidebearings try the text setting with some
    positive tracking. If it works reasonably well then you may be able to leave the
    sidebearings alone for a while. Hope I'm not too late on that.\r\n\r\nj a m e
    s"
  created: '2007-12-11 20:49:42'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "i'm also fixing some of the serifs as they were all the same size and so
    slightly unbalanced on some shapes. I'm suddenly not too sure about the capital
    M. Here anyway is the latest version to have a look at. \r\nThank you for your
    very nice encouragement James :) "
  created: '2007-12-12 21:38:57'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "The latest iteration looks great. I'll get to it in the next few days and
    try to post something...it's a pretty full stove this weekend.\r\n\r\nj a m e
    s"
  created: '2007-12-14 14:09:59'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "i need to spend time on it as well, so no rush for feedback :) \r\nI appreciate
    your help so far. This is the first font i'm seriously trying to make so it means
    a lot to hear positive opinions. Thanks,"
  created: '2007-12-14 15:52:26'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Well I couldn't look any longer at those particular shapes so had a twiddle
    and came up with the start of the black weight...if I ever manage to finish the
    Regular. Or should that be Medium?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Eternal-Black_6316.gif]\r\nPlease
    ignore the spacing for now! \r\nHow can I get around that odd-looking k?\r\nJames,
    is the s working better with that serif on the bottom?"
  created: '2007-12-17 01:34:19'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "The black looks very good, and importantly it's got spunk now! Jimmy Cat
    like very much. \r\n\r\nI would keep developing it as the black weight and make
    an additional font with a big increase in stroke width (but not so much horizontally)
    and counterspaces almost as large as these. \r\n\r\nBug Blatter Megagrotesk has
    a very fat stroke in all directions and very small counters. Very small counters
    would ruin your tasteful spunky design.\r\n\r\nThe k can be remedied by bringing
    the arm & leg in so it touches the stem.\r\n\r\nAdding the serif to s helps balance
    it. Extent the bottom arm to the left a bit.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-17 05:59:00'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Eternal 3\r\n\r\na -- add a small amount more rigor to the bowl\r\n\r\nd
    -- south eastern corner looks undecided\r\n\r\ne -- this is very good. neat detailing.
    thin the bar a bit, just a bit.\r\n\r\nf -- neat chiselled detailing like the
    e\r\n\r\ng -- test tail gap performance at small sizes in print. This may work
    better with a wider gap and rounded-off stroke end.\r\n\r\nh -- excellent. a nice
    simple h\r\n\r\nk -- gap visible from low earth orbit. your serif design and detailing
    are very good.\r\n\r\nm -- asymmetric serifs and body. asymmetry is good.\r\n\r\nn
    - ain't broke don't fix it\r\n\r\no -- reduce horizontals a small amount to match
    line contrast to stick-and-ball letters.\r\n\r\np -- could be drawn narrower,
    or left as is.\r\n\r\nq -- aha...mhm...yep...I see.\r\n\r\nr -- detailing and
    visual interest here is fullsome.\r\n\r\ns -- this is being redesigned.\r\n\r\nt
    -- standard t structures have the curl project level with the bar.\r\n\r\nu --
    narrow it for more \"u-ness\". \r\n\r\nv and w -- missing soft detail at baseline
    vertices.\r\n\r\nx -- wonderful x. don't change a thing.\r\n\r\nNumberals:\r\n\r\n1
    -- would be more legible if it was wider. see example\r\n\r\n2 -- see example.\r\n\r\n3
    -- try it with the lower bowl stress reversed---like b. see example.\r\n\r\n5
    -- if you change the curve body on 3 you'll want to do the 5 as well\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nummers_4565.gif]\r\n\r\nCan
    we have a PDF with letterspaced text set in columns please. 10pt on generous leading,
    at least 14pt -- 16pt lead. Ten words per line, play with the tracking until it
    reads properly.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-17 12:25:16'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I think the ear of the <strong>r</strong> needs to have some more weight.
    It has to fit with the other characters. The <strong>s</strong> leans to the left.
    Try extending the lower left stroke. The <strong>1, 3</strong> and <strong>4</strong>
    are too light. The <strong>8</strong> leans to the left. Have you tried to make
    the hook of the <strong>f</strong> a tad longer? (a bit like you have in the <strong>fi</strong>-lig).
    I think it might define the shape better. The same goes for the <strong>t</strong>.\r\nI
    think the waist of the <strong>k</strong> should be lowered a little bit. It seems
    to me the lower leg is too long, and the top one too short. Somehow, the <strong>o</strong>
    doesn't look right. Compare it to your capital <strong>O</strong>. The same goes
    for your <strong>c</strong>, <strong>e</strong> and the top of the <strong>g</strong>.
    I think it is the contrast (weight) that needs some work on those characters.
    The same problem exists in the italic. \r\nHow about oldstyle figures? You can
    make more creative shapes with those, so to decide what kind of numerals you want
    (and then extend that to the lining figures). I like your questionmark, but the
    one in the italics seems to be too small?\r\n\r\nOverall I think it is definitely
    coming together pretty nicely. If you loosen up the spacing a bit, you can probably
    judge longer text settings better. Keep it up. :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-17 12:33:17'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thanks guys :) That's very useful. I'm playing with some of those ideas.
    The o is looking better i think. The s looks better with the bottom taken left
    more. In fact all of those comments have helped with the shapes. However, i don't
    understand some of the phrases...\r\n<em>an additional font with a big increase
    in stroke width</em> | Do you mean like an extended version? Or just as fat as
    possible?\r\n<em>a \u2014 add a small amount more rigor to the bowl</em> | Do
    you mean to take the curve higher on the left side and make the shape rounder
    on the middle branch?\r\n<em>k \u2014 gap visible from low earth orbit.</em> |
    Is that a good thing or a bad thing?\r\n<em>q</em> | not so great??\r\n<em>t \u2014
    standard t structures have the curl project level with the bar.</em> | the 'foot'
    part? Longer? Not like the other curly feet?\r\n<em>v and w \u2014 missing soft
    detail at baseline vertices.</em> | Should I round off the flat bits or try slicing
    angles in there somewhere?\r\n<em>x \u2014 wonderful x. don\u2019t change a thing.</em>
    | Oops. I think I changed it. Thinner arms and legs...weight loss programme?\r\nNumberals...yes...tricky.
    Am playing with oldstyle but there need to be tall ones too. \r\n\r\nHi Jelmar;
    yes, my biggest difficulty is the contrast and getting the curves smooth and the
    angle of stress right, as you have noticed...it's very fiddly. I've amended the
    o and e and about to try the g. The italic so far is just a skeleton and i have
    not spent much time yet on it. That italic o is horrid. I changed that nice question
    mark too, i'm afraid. \r\n\r\nHere's the changes, \r\nI'll post a pdf soon. Then
    you can find more problems for me to fix ;)\r\nThanks for the tips guys, really
    appreciate it.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Revised-letters_4344.gif]"
  created: '2007-12-17 19:45:57'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "2 and s are much improved. Try growing the oldstyle 2 to caps-height lining
    size.\r\n\r\n> an additional font with a big increase in stroke width | Do you
    mean like an extended version? Or just as fat as possible?\r\n\r\nYes. \"Morbidly-obese\".\r\n\r\n>
    a \u2014 add a small amount more rigor to the bowl | Do you mean to take the curve
    higher on the left side and make the shape rounder on the middle branch?\r\n\r\nSee
    picture:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/otaku_3962.gif]\r\n\r\n> k
    \u2014 gap visible from low earth orbit. | Is that a good thing or a bad thing?\r\n\r\nBig
    gaps can  and often do pose problems for reading text. If you halve the width
    of your isthmus (gap) everything should be fine---it should work at small sizes
    for text and at display sizes as well.\r\n\r\nq is fine. Yep. Yeah buddaye!\r\n\r\n>
    t \u2014 standard t structures have the curl project level with the bar. | the
    \u2019foot\u2019 part? Longer? Not like the other curly feet?\r\n\r\nBring the
    curl out right as far out as the bar end.\r\n\r\n> v and w \u2014 missing soft
    detail at baseline vertices. | Should I round off the flat bits or try slicing
    angles in there somewhere?\r\n\r\nI'm hoping for one rounded corner versus one
    sharp, a dialog of soft and sharp.\r\n\r\nx \u2014 wonderful x. don\u2019t change
    a thing. | Oops. I think I changed it. Thinner arms and legs...weight loss programme?\r\n\r\nNo
    problem-o. \r\n\r\nBen, this is going very well. Pardon my attempts at satire.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-18 00:27:21'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Here's that pdf in columns. I have widened the sidebearings so the body text
    appears as it would with no extra tracking, only justified. Left column is 10/14pt
    and right is 9/12pt.\r\nTo my eye, the spacing is too wide...but perhaps that's
    because I've got used to narrow spacing.\r\nSmall caps are not finished; I still
    have T through to Y to fix. \r\nThe numbers are still fighting me. The 2 is too
    short and dumpy and the 3 is too heavy. Its bottom hangs out looking bulbous.\r\nI
    got some nice results interpolating the black and the regular to make a bold.
    The extra fat idea is great...really fudgey, and will probably need a lot of restyling,
    so that'll wait for now.\r\nI lengthened the curly toes of the t and f, pulled
    up that bowl on the a slightly as you suggested; also, the k has a thinner knee.\r\nI
    shaved off some of the eyelid of the e and likewise on the c. There wasn't enough
    contrast. Perhaps the G needs to be a smidge wider. I squashed the p in slightly.
    And that ampersand needs a tweak.\r\nI haven't done anything to the italic. But
    i'm glad you liked the black spunky one :) It's funny how the regular one somehow
    contained the recipe for the black weight. The e there needs its curves to be
    a bit tauter, I think.\r\nIt's very encouraging to hear positive opinions. I'm
    sure I would have lost interest without your feedback, so thank you all! And,
    please, any comments again :)\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-19 01:01:30'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: The spacing is definitely not too wide. (Dare I say it could even be a tad
    wider?) I would keep it like this for now.
  created: '2007-12-19 01:45:50'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Yep-yep-yep. The spacing is just right in the columns PDF. You have a good
    eye for these things Jelmar. It could easily go wider and still be functional,
    but it will be safer to keep the sidebearings as they are and leave it up to users
    to add extra tracking.\r\n\r\nLooking good Ben :^)\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-19 04:46:21'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Ben are you going to make alternates for this font? An x-height small capital
    Q would fit right into the lower case.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-19 07:51:45'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hi James,\r\nThanks for your idea about the super fat weight...i am starting
    on that. I found some hints on your Bugblatter page about how to add on weight
    (bigger overshoots, larger x-height, superelliptical beziers) and it's going to
    look really super. Definitely obese. Perhaps even callipygian [adj. =\"having
    beautifully proportioned buttocks\"]\r\n\r\nNo sample now, sorry! Later...\r\nAlternates,
    probably...with closed off counters on the B and g and R? Those gaps slightly
    annoy me. I'd like to add some nice twirly swashes too. I had noticed that the
    small caps were almost fitting into the lowercase...but there is much else to
    do first...gosh! the possibilities!\r\nDoes the lowercase o need to be wider/rounder?
    It now begins to look hexagonal :[\r\nHappy holidays!"
  created: '2007-12-21 10:33:26'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "That Bug Blatter thing was a quickie done for the fun of it, but if there
    are things there you can use for your fatboy Eternal, by all means adopt, adapt.
    \"Callipgyian\" I didn't know that word.\r\n\r\nJelmar is right about the ear
    of <strong>r</strong>. It would benefit from more mass.\r\n\r\nThe lowercase <strong>o</strong>
    looks okay but will probably gain functionality with extra width.\r\n\r\nFor the
    moment concentrate on perfecting the regular. \r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-21 15:11:13'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Yah, the regular still needs smoothing and checking each letter in detail.
    I haven't measured anything yet; it's all done by eyes only, and i now notice
    i've trimmed too much off the thins (like on V and v). Will concentrate on the
    details i suppose. Let's hope my eyes do not pop out.\r\n:)"
  created: '2007-12-21 16:51:42'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Take a break. Give your loved one a big hug. Pat the cat (Put the cat out
    dear. \"I didn't know he was on fire!\")\r\n\r\nIt sounds like you may be a little
    too close to it after much intense effort. I would take a break and give the font
    to a colleague you trust, ask that person to play with it for a few days, to live
    with it by doing some comps with it. Then a few days or a week later when you
    look at the comps you'll have a fresh perspective on the type design---at that
    point I find my feelings and reaction to it are different.\r\n\r\nSeason's greetings.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-21 18:49:54'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Absoultely right. I'm stopping for a week! Have fun! :)
  created: '2007-12-22 00:46:37'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Well i came back to this :)\r\nI've posted the latest alterations. I've made
    some of the serifs weightier on the regular, widened the M, looked at the stroke
    terminals, curly toes and reshaped them. I think the tail of the g and the o still
    need the contrast to be better. I've given the r a heavier ear. \r\nI have still
    not finished the small caps. I want the tall caps to be right first. Oh, and the
    numbers are still giving me grief. :)\r\nThe italic caps are just sloped for now.
    All those serifs need reworking and some of the lc shapes, but the bones are there
    already. I read somewhere that italics are generally narrower than uprights, but
    mine aren't. Is that a mistake?\r\nI like the way extrabold came out, though there
    were a few odd difficulties such as the northwest corner of the uc N and the shape
    of the lc w. The crossbars on the E F and H need to be thicker I think. \r\nAs
    for the ultrablack experiment...well!\r\nc needs widening. d needs rounding. e
    was ok until i made it too wide. g is tricky. where to put the weight without
    the contours crashing into each other? Smaller head? Is it called the head? the
    circular part. The curly k is not really there yet, but it had to curve like that
    to stop that leg spreading out to the right and leaving a big white space at the
    knee. I haven't tried any uc yet. \r\nPlease have a look and tell me your ideas.
    Next i want to focus on getting all the regular shapes in line. \r\nThanks for
    your opinions! \r\n"
  created: '2008-01-03 01:42:52'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "I'm on it. Wat 'til I have my coffee. Mmm! This coffee tastes good. It's
    fullsome and able-bodied. I'm sure I could use the ultrablack and regular to advertise
    coffee.\r\n\r\nCheck back later Ben. Yes, get the main caps sorted before working
    on the smallcaps.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-03 03:50:54'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "I'm looking at Eternal 2 Jan. Prepared animations show recommended changes
    for <strong>g</strong> and <strong>a</strong>. Do something similar to g to the
    counter of <strong>o</strong>. The change for the hood of <strong>a</strong> is
    optional. I'm looking for a way to reduce the horizontal thickness of that top
    part and still make it asymmetric. The modified drawing in the anim isn't successful
    as far as the shape goes (asymmetry disappearing!), but shows the change in thickness
    that would complete the <strong>a</strong>, matching the rigor of the hood to
    that of the bowl, which came up very nicely.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/eternal_a_anim_6382.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/eternal_g_anim_6526.gif]\r\n\r\n<strong>a</strong>
    much improved\r\n<strong>r</strong> much improved.\r\n\r\nWhat's up wth the numbers?
    Describe the problem(s) in detail.\r\n\r\nFor the Extra bold, the crossbars on
    the E F and H can go thicker, no problem.\r\n\r\nFrom what I can see of the ultrablack,
    <strong>c</strong> looks okay (not too narrow). If you can post a pic of the ultrablack
    <strong>g</strong> at a decent size I will happily show how to solve its problems.
    Reducing the size of the upper bowl would be a good start. The upper portion of
    a binocular g is the body (proper), a.k.a upper occulus, but you can call it the
    head if you want. <strong>k</strong> is well solved, keep going with that. For
    the ultrablack generally, your overshoot appears excessive.\r\n\r\nItalics are
    generally narrower than their regular cousins, yep. At this stage of development
    the regular still has some basic problems that need attention first. Put the italic
    aside for the time being. When the time comes to build it, yes, narrow those guys
    by character width and stroke width. Not narrowing your italics isn't so much
    a mistake as a defiance of convention. We can be philospohical about this; pretend
    nobody has ever seen the regular font, an italic version with forms not narrowed
    they would be none the wiser about. Depends who's looking at it. Some designers
    insist that italics have to be narrow or they're not true italics. Others will
    accept it on face value. \r\n\r\nI need to see a PDF with full character sets
    (everything drawn so far) of each weight before advising any further.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-03 13:17:50'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thanks very much James. i like what you've done with the curvy tip on the
    g, but that would be the only place such a shape appeared. As for that a, hummmm...I'll
    experiment.\r\nI'm into the regular for now, but here is the g of the ultra bold
    if you want to see how it can be figured out...i wanted the upper slope of the
    tail to be nice and thick without squashing the bottom loop, so reducing the height
    of the body is probably the best way, though with the fatness required, it is
    in danger of ending up very flat looking, no?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fgi_3966.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    overshoot is sizeable; is it better to reduce that or increase the x-height of
    the flat letters nearer the size of the round ones?\r\n\r\nYour comments are very
    useful, thank you :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-03 19:28:01'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I've been working on the regular weight. Smoothing and checking the colour
    and details. I think the uc and lc are looking good now. It's all unkerned so
    I can see the sidebearings and if anything needs to be adjusted. Does anything
    need to be adjusted?\r\nPlease check the letterforms in case i've missed anything
    though! \r\nJames, i didn't yet try the a and g you suggested but will look at
    that later. \r\nThings i'm not happy with yet: b, o and p are not smooth and it's
    hard to get the stroke contrast right. \r\nNumbers 3 6 and 9 are not quite there
    and i need to look at them all more closely. The 3 i find too dark on top. The
    6 and 9 are just difficult shapes for me. That octothorp is not going to stay
    so ugly. What should i do with the % sign? Is my comma too odd? \xA3 sign is too
    light bottom left. \r\n\r\nWith the non-English characters, I have not been familiar
    with some of the shapes and I know some of those diacritics are running wild.
    Are the accents at the right kind of angle? Is the ogonek nice? Should the breve
    be rounder? Which way does the \xB5 want to go? I think the \xF0 is too light
    on the stem. \r\nI think my small caps are slightly too dark, but like them with
    big sidebearings. \r\n\r\nI have not done anything with the italics and they are
    just there for comparison. \r\n\r\nHope you like it :)"
  created: '2008-01-06 04:04:20'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Hey Ben, \r\n\r\n* <strong>f</strong> -- You probably drew the bar shorter
    than the hood to avoid collisions on the x-line. It can stay that way if you want
    it to. A lot of fonts are designed that way. The alternative is to have the bar
    project as far right as the tip of the hood---like the t but upside down. The
    f-bar will then tend to crash into x-line serifs (or come very close), but will
    fit better with rounds.\r\n\r\n* <strong>f-ligs:</strong> compare the whitespace
    inside those ligatures with the whitespace between their individual component
    letters when typed in the same combinations. Space the ligature stems for consistent
    color and encapsulated whitespace. The standard form for an <strong>f i</strong>
    ligature is to bring the finial (beak) out to the position the dot of the i would
    otherwise occupy. The finial on your <strong>f-i</strong> lig could be a bigger
    lump to emulate the presence of the i dot. <strong>f-l</strong> is okay. <strong>f-f</strong>
    -- try dropping the hood of the first f about half the distance between x-line
    and ascender line, then extending the hood it until it mates with the back of
    second f, and make the bar between them a bit thinner.\r\n\r\n* <strong>h</strong>
    looks a bit wide in the body. Recommend narrowing it some to even up the color.
    Same could be done for <strong>n</strong>.\r\n\r\n* <strong>m</strong> might integrate
    better and improve overall color if the arches were narrowed, but subtly. Try
    it and see how it looks.\r\n\r\n* <strong>b o p</strong> A whop bop-a-loo-bop,
    a-whop bam-boo! It is entirely possible you are over-critical of these fellas.
    Only <strong>o</strong> is in serious need of adjustment. Make the counter taller
    then recenter it. Test, test, test. Put it all aside and go for a walk. While
    out walking think about your loved ones, or interest yourself in the street life
    and details of houses and cars. It's a woopy raggy world we live in. I always
    get a clearer perspective if I go for a walk when I'm too close to the thing I'm
    working on.\r\n\r\n* Capital <strong>J</strong> is dropped design. Will work in
    some combos but look funny with others. Recommend making alternate lining J, to
    give users a choice. We live in a world partly driven by consumer choice.\r\n\r\n*
    Gap on <strong>k</strong> is about right now. Try narrowing gap on <strong>K</strong>
    to match. Test it, see how you like it. If the wider gapped K makes more sense
    to you then keep it.\r\n\r\n* Numerals: 6 and 9 take some effort to master. Study
    the 6 and 9 in other people's fonts (OPFs), look closely at the way the bowls
    join onto the stems. Learn the form. Try to emulate it. Have patience. 3 is basically
    okay. Angled left stroke of 4 can angle in to the right more (harmonize with 7),
    as you have plenty of gap next to the vertical stem. Biggest concern here is top
    bowl and diagonal stroke of 8. Top bowl is small, not a serious fault but a stylistic
    concern. Diagonal stroke needs to be thinner\r\n\r\n* comma tail, make it shorter.\r\n\r\n*
    Euro symbol incorrect form according to industry spec. The right tips of the bars
    should be staggered to form a diagonal alignment, like they've been cut by a slash.
    Bars will also benefit from more space between them. See example:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/euroslash_5280.gif]\r\n\r\n*
    angled bottom of exclamation stroke is a nice touch :^)\r\n\r\n* mu symbol is
    fine, no need to adjust except maybe make the descender serif asymmetric or a
    curl if you want. Your choice.\r\n\r\n* Yen symbol -- give the bars more air,
    and extend them as far left and right as tips of upper v structure. See example:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/yenbars_5035.gif]\r\n\r\n*
    Bar and Brokenbar -- to distinguish Bar from similar characters like <strong>l</strong>
    and <strong>I</strong>, I draw Bar about fifty to a hundred units higher than
    the ascender line as well as the descender line. Amount of extension depends on
    the font. You've got the width right. Set the bearings nice and wide. Bar attains
    some of its functionality from the whitespace either side of it. Set up Brokenbar
    the same way as Bar.\r\n\r\n* Asterisk is very cool by way of its impression of
    motion. Looks like it's spinning. Some designers insist it should appear static,
    but spectators seldom notice small details like that. Five prongs the way to go.\r\n\r\n*
    Percent sign -- thin the connecting bar until it looks elegant (not pedestrian).
    Move the zeros away from the slash. Aw man they need air. Check it at small sizes
    to guage how much. Looks like you adapted the 7 for the slash. Hee-hee! Make the
    slash thinner too. Having a curved slash is another nice touch.\r\n\r\n* Accents
    -- angles are all fine. Ogonek is noyce, oye loyke it. Breve curve is fine but
    make the whole breve narrower. Lower case thorn \xF0 stem is fine, but thin the
    bar down and reposition for less eccentric symmetry.\r\n\r\nMost of the sidebearings
    look okay except for a few:\r\n\r\n* right sidebearing of <strong>b</strong> may
    be too short. Study combinations b-e, b-o. Compare the right side bearing of <strong>b</strong>
    with that of o, e. If they are the same then the bad combos I'm seeing in the
    PDF may be due to errors by InD CS2.\r\n\r\n* right bearing of <strong>g</strong>
    looks too short. Adjust, check in combination with everything else in the lower
    case. Adjust until it works with the most probable combinations.\r\n\r\n* <strong>l</strong>,
    right bearing and possibly left one. Set the bearings by measuring from the stem.
    Ignore the curl tip. The basic formula for a lower case is to set the sidebearings
    for the stem letters -- b, d, f, h, i, j, k, l, p, q, t -- all more or less the
    same. They don't have to be exactly the same, but that often works well. For the
    bowl pairs b-q d-p, this only applies to the stem side of them, not the bowl side.\r\n\r\n*
    How short are the bearings on <strong>t</strong>? The right side looks a bit wide.
    A formula for designing lower case <strong>t</strong> is to set the sidebearings
    so they are the same distance from the stem as l and i. Then bring the tips of
    the bar on <strong>t</strong> out (or bring them in) until they are at zero with
    the sidebearings, or very close to zero. You can make them negative if need be.\r\n\r\n*
    Set up <strong>f</strong> the same way as <strong>t</strong>.\r\n\r\n* <strong>v
    V y Y</strong> --- usually the bearings on these are zero or close to zero. For
    a seriffed font it's not unusual to set the bearings negative.\r\n\r\n<em>Hope
    you like it :)</em>\r\n\r\nI love it :^)\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-06 07:04:55'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "The purple flag indicates harmony, \r\nthe best I could do copying and \r\npasting
    the tail of <strong>5</strong>. \r\nTry <em>something</em> like that.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/eternal35anim_5842.gif]\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s\r\n\"bleeple bleeple\""
  created: '2008-01-06 13:29:24'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hi James\r\nThere's a lot of good stuff here. Thank you. \r\nIt's funny how
    sometimes what I expect to work actually looks wrong, and good-looking shapes
    just happen by lucky  accident.\r\nWe did have a walk yesterday...a peace walk
    in central London to protest against the Burmese junta, with monks and nuns and
    gentle folk. It was quite meditative and a good break from work and beziers :)
    but I think I am addicted to type design, which may indicate I am in the wrong
    job (marketing coordinator!)...\r\nThanks for all your recommendations. I'll go
    carefully through them next time I open the font file.\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-06 15:10:39'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>It\u2019s funny how sometimes what I expect to work actually looks wrong,
    and good-looking shapes just happen by lucky accident.</em>\r\n\r\nYep. That's
    generally the way. Allow for some fudging to be part of the final forms. A certain
    percentage of what you're drawing has been predetermined by 500 years of type
    design history, and the 3000 years of letter history before that.\r\n\r\n<em>...I
    think I am addicted to type design, which may indicate I am in the wrong job...</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    too! Type has done a job on me, I know that much.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-13 03:29:21'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Diddle di dee.\r\nIt's fiddly work. I'm repairing the 8, thinning the h,
    m, n, grappling with the 3, 5 and o, bending the % in all directions, getting
    the bearings of the t all up around my ears and redrawing the M and W like this...is
    there a way to describe those shapes...more modern?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Eternal6_5777.jpg]\r\n\r\nAnd
    I had a go at interpolating:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Eternal-Weights_4339.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\nSlowly
    slowly...still fiddling :)\r\nthanks, "
  created: '2008-01-15 23:49:24'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Compare the 'e' in your Extra Bold weight with that of the Regular. The one
    in the Regular needs more contrast (thick/thin), just like you did in the Extra
    Bold. It probably doesn't only apply to the 'e', but possibly every character
    with a similar contrast in it (well, maybe not all, because I can't see all of
    them in the image). The contrast of the 'a' in the Regular is much better than
    that of the 'e', for example.\r\n\r\n(By the way, it would be convenient if you
    could upload a new PDF every now and then for viewing it up close)."
  created: '2008-01-16 00:44:04'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Yes, the contrast is a sticking point with this design. I liked the lower
    contrast originally with the e, but increased it some already. I'll try thinning
    the horizontal bits some more...b, c, d, m, n and u probably need reworking too.
    I'm undecided whether low or high contrast looks nicer, which is why some shapes
    don't match the others. Indecision probably not a good thing in this work!\r\n\r\nThe
    shapes have not changed since the 5 Jan pdf, except the glyphs in my previous
    post. But i'll add a new pdf later today. Paragraph text? \r\n\r\nThanks :)"
  created: '2008-01-16 12:22:21'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Well, in my opinion some of the characters (like the 'e') can use higher
    contrast. About as much as you did on the 'a', that looks quite ok. But it can
    be very subtle, but I think it should be a little bit more apparent than the 'e'
    is now. But it's up to you what you like the most; but it should be the same on
    all glyphs.\r\n\r\nAnd in the PDF you could show the new weights. I usually make
    a PDF with two pages; one with larger type, the other with paragraphs. This way
    you can see how the type performs as display and for text."
  created: '2008-01-16 14:55:07'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Ahh. Ok, here is the latest incarnation.\r\nDon't take the interpolated weights
    too seriously. I have not done anything to them! \r\nOn the regular, I think i've
    taken too much off the top of the c, the p is suddenly fat again, the numbers
    6, 8, and 9 have been redrawn, the 2, 3 and 5 are now deciding to mutiny. Which
    lining J do you like? Which W and M? I think i'm putting in a Thai alphabet for
    some reason too. I couldn't get the ff lig to look nice with the joined hood.
    I raised the contrast on h, m, n, u, and a tiny bit on b and d and p and q.\r\nI
    like the extravagance and eccentricity of the Ultrabold. No caps or numbers yet.
    \r\nYour comments are always interesting! Thank you :)"
  created: '2008-01-18 01:22:02'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>I like the extravagance and eccentricity of the Ultrabold.</em>\r\n\r\nCoffee!
    Coffee, coffee, coffee! It's got a warm and inviting girth like Aachen but avoids
    that font's bluntness with flavourful curves.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-18 05:17:48'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I hadn't thought to compare it to Aachen but I see what you mean. It was certainly
    meant to be warm and comfortable! Flavourful as well! That is grand! :)
  created: '2008-01-18 09:34:21'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "M.bleep bleep.. . :. :: . ..:.\r\n\r\nEternal sample .PDF\r\n\r\n<strong>For:</strong>
    Regular font shows verve and all-round crispness of form absent from early iterations.
    Surprisingly capable around town with competent text handling performance. Offers
    display typographers pedigree looks and genuine driving pleasure straight out
    of the ZIP.\r\n\r\n<strong>Against:</strong>  Lingering fit problems with <strong>r</strong>
    in the regular font. Angled ear of <strong>r</strong> creates fit problems in
    the heavier weights. Needs to be progressively flatened out towards vertical.
    r-a ligature makes a great hood ornament. Keep this and other mirthful angled
    end combos as ligatures.\r\n\r\n<strong>Sum-up:</strong> Coffee, science books,
    hardware and lighting, manchester, biscuits, furniture, beer labels, cake, chocolate,
    real estate signage, optometrists will love it. Coffee, coffee, hot chocolate,
    teabags, coffee, coffee, coffee.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-18 11:01:15'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Nice one. That's exactly the kind of PDF specimen I mean. :)\r\nI will have
    to take a better look at it in a couple of hours, and make a more constructive
    post. :)"
  created: '2008-01-18 14:04:09'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<strong>Also try: </strong>cosmetics, plant & nursery, hobbies & crafts,
    home cooking manuals, kitchenware & kwokwi, fruit & vegetable, travel guides,
    house & garden, bathroom & laundry, pharmacy & health products, furniture & bedding
    (see manchester), wainscotting, pasta packaging, country kitchen buffet, hamburger
    franchise, s'more schnapps, root beer, stationary supplies, near earth asteroid
    warning sticker, museum & gallery collateral. \r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-18 14:44:46'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: What seems somewhat strange to me is the stress in the <strong>p</strong>.
    The thickest part of the bowl is on the lower right, which I think (?) should
    be - considering the angle of stress on the <strong>o, e, c</strong> - on the
    upper right. The same goes for the <strong>b</strong>, where the thickest should
    be on the upper right, and the <strong>q</strong>, where it should be on the lower
    left. Compare them to your <strong>o</strong>, and you'll see what I mean (it
    becomes apparent in the word 'bold' as well). The image that words form, will
    look more balanced when the stress is consistent. :)
  created: '2008-01-18 16:27:15'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "James, do you mean that the ear of the r should not slope at all? (I liked
    the effect next to the a as well; will keep as a lig.)\r\nJelmar, I think you
    are right about the b p and q. I'm not sure why it's got the stress reversed,
    so i'll switch and see if that looks better.\r\nIt's really encouraging to hear
    all these ideas. I hadn't started seeing the font as a product, only as an arcane
    hobby! Thanks :)"
  created: '2008-01-20 16:53:47'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "I mean that it may be wise to look at the letter fit resulting from all r-combinations
    to determine if the angled ear end is really the best way of finishing the <strong>r</strong>.
    It works beautifully with <strong>a</strong>, but by the time you get to the black
    weight the fit becomes awkward with some letters. For example r-s in the black
    weight is a bit quirky, and an ear facing closer vertical would make more sense
    to me there.\r\n\r\nAnother way of looking at it---an ear facing closer vertical
    poses less risk of fit problems.\r\n\r\nBut this isn't a huge fit issue. In the
    regular it isn't very noticable. Only in the heavier weights does it draw the
    eye's attention.\r\n\r\n<em>It\u2019s really encouraging to hear all these ideas.
    I hadn\u2019t started seeing the font as a product, only as an arcane hobby! Thanks
    :)</em>\r\n\r\nDon't let me impose too much commerciality on this font. It's your
    design, your baby. Ideally commercial considerations should not come last but
    neither should they occupy the front seat. If you decide to make Eternal commercially
    available then my key word lists may come in useful. Some of the ideas may turn
    out to be duds too. Sometimes when I look at an unproven type design (like this
    one) a torrent of applications (uses) and key words wells up in my head and it
    makes sense to write it all down somewhere. But I can be very commerically-minded
    at times and I recommend you get as many more impressions from other people as
    you can---people who aren't type designers or typophiles and people who don't
    work in design or advertising :^)\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-22 12:30:55'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Aah. I'll experiment with that r. I like the idea of the shape changing as
    it gets heavier.\r\nSome things I might change on regular: bottom loop of g wider,
    feet of w further apart, f and t crossbars wider, serifs heavier (perhaps), spine
    of s more horizontal, chop feet of v and w somehow to include a curve there, close
    counters on B and R (alternates?).\r\nI don't know enough about font marketing
    to let it influence the direction it is taking. I think the concept was formed
    without a particular industry in mind, though it was conceived as a text and display
    font. I'll need to do more research about similar fonts/fonts that influenced
    this, to see how they are marketed, before I think about selling it. Your ideas
    are a good starting point. I'll do some mock-ups with some of those when I am
    happy the font is clean. \r\nIs there somewhere a checklist of what needs to go
    into a font aside from glyph design/sidebearings/kerning, as I have no idea about
    testing/opentype/hinting and it all sounds a bit daunting the first time! One
    version threw up errors in Word when I tried to pdf it, and the intermediate weights
    have had to be different families as I couldn't figure out how to get them appearing
    in the same one with name and style variants...sorry to seem so amateur! :S\r\nThank
    you.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-23 13:07:45'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: The naming conventions are quite elaborate. If you are using FontLab, Adam
    Twardoch posted a [[http://groups.msn.com/fontlab/tipsandtricks.msnw?action=get_message&mview=0&ID_Message=2843|how-to
    on the fontlab msn group]] (but it's probaby similar for other apps as well).
    Can still be kind of complicated, but give it a couple of tries, and it will work
    (the same name but with styles thing).
  created: '2008-01-23 16:53:31'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: That looks helpful, thanks! :)
  created: '2008-01-23 17:48:50'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Well two months after the last iteration, and it feels like this is going
    to take a LONG time :) \r\nSee new PDF at the top.\r\nAnyhow, i've twiddled with
    the lowercase to improve the contrast as you suggested, made it lots smoother,
    you will see what I mean. I've reduced the general clonkiness and been quite detailed
    with double points in the apexes of pointy shapes, and am especially satisfied
    with the s and t. I can't get the shape of the o! Thinking about it hasn't helped;
    nor has just letting the points go where they intend...and the o really needs
    to have some influence on the shapes of the b, c, d, e, g, p, and q...possibly
    others. So I guess i'll just have to keep trying, look at other people's fonts,
    and see what i can come up with. \r\nDo let me know what you think! :)"
  created: '2008-03-06 00:14:12'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Ben this is in all-round great shape. The o \"can be\" improved, but it seems
    most satisfactory as it is. I am more concerned about your e. There's an easy
    way of making it more elegant and less eye-catching (it \"dazzles\" a bit much
    for me). If you narrow the e body a bit and raise the crossbar as shown in this
    animation.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bendyanim_6669.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    other glyph you could consider reducing the size of is w. This Venetian style
    of w has ruined most major text fonts for five hundred years, and right now it's
    doing a fair job of ruining Eternal's integration and sense of stylistic unity.
    The only thing you can do to these little twerps is narrow them to make them smaller,
    and by making w smaller it somehow seems less intrusive.\r\n\r\nThe only other
    thing I had time for is the curl tip on the right side of z. Can you make it taper
    like the curls on <strong>n, m, l</strong> etc?\r\n\r\nm e w &nbsp; j a m e s"
  created: '2008-03-07 07:06:51'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I'm glad you approve :)\r\nI hadn't seen a possibility to make the w a different
    shape. I'll see how it looks to narrow it down, is that what you mean? \r\nI liked
    the large happy counter of the e, but it does look slightly dippy. Let's see what
    else i can do with it. Yes, the z should fit more with the other curly toes. \r\ni
    want the o to be more elliptical, it's a bit too round and doesn't quite match
    the shape of the other bowls.\r\nDo you think the beak on the c is too pronounced?\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-07 14:35:16'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: James, are there any lowercase w shapes you recommend i can look at?
  created: '2008-03-08 14:11:53'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Condensing the w is what I mean. Rather than looking at other fonts for a
    particular w shape, it's better to adapt your own design first by adjusting it.
    Select each joint and shift the whole lot horizontally to the left. Try ten or
    twenty units of shift for each joint for starters (assuming this font is drawn
    at a scale of 1000 units per em) . It may need more or less.\r\n\r\nThis drawing
    shows how to do it as a series of steps.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/eternal_w_3968.gif]\r\n\r\nAfter
    condensing it in this way you'll probably need to adjust the stroke widths to
    make them the same as what they were before.\r\n\r\nThe serif on c does speak
    a bit loud. I like it as one of those little eccentricities that can help make
    a typeface interesting. Consider keeping it as is because it adds flavour without
    drawing as much attention as the counter of e. This drawing shows how it would
    look if you paste the unit from s on as a replacement, making no other adjustments.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bendy_c_anim_5042.gif]\r\n\r\nAlright,
    that works in being less pronounced, but it's a modular method I've used (only
    to get a quick idea of how it might look). Best if you adjust the existing beak
    on c instead of cutting and pasting, to keep it unique.\r\n\r\nYour o can never
    truly match the shapes of the bowl pairs on account of the differences in structure
    between those letters and o, and you're better off not sweating over that discrepancy
    so much. The art of typeface design is in part the attempt to perfect what ultimately
    cannot be perfected. The effort to do that leads to creative work. By all means
    try condensing o to make it more elliptical, but keep in mind the need for even
    density and color. The current width is about right, making o a good match for
    the bowl pairs as well as h, n, m, u, producing a fairly even color in combination
    with them and other glyphs.\r\n\r\nj a m e s\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-08 19:02:47'
- author:
    name: Scalfin
    picture: 114154
  body: Try making two circles, each w/ a diameter of some set ratio (I did 1/2 here)
    of the height of the x-bar, then arrange them so that one is against the x-bar,
    and the other against the bottom boundary, at which point you can fuse the two
    w/ a line, shown at left, or an ellipse, right.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/demonstration_6164.jpg]
  created: '2008-03-11 03:34:21'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Nah, we're not doing that. Much easier to draw an ellipse of the required
    size and aspect with Fontlab's ellipse drawing tool.\r\n\r\nThe point I made above
    is that the <strong>o</strong> is just fine. Every typeface design is a collection
    of compromises. Ben has made Eternal into an artful collection of compromises,
    and that is what every good type designer does---creative work.\r\n\r\nPerfection
    is boring. A technically 100% consistent typeface is usually reductive and not
    design at all, but rather soulless pedantry.\r\n\r\nThe \"x-bar\" is called the
    \"x-line\", and the \"bottom boundary\" is called the baseline.\r\n\r\nj a m e
    s"
  created: '2008-03-12 09:21:04'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I agree with James that the <strong>o</strong> is fine. Also the visual connection
    it has with other round shapes (b, d, e, etc.) is good enough.\r\nSmall details;
    I think the <strong>e</strong> might be a fraction too wide, although James suggestion
    of setting the crossbar higher might already help. The <strong>b</strong> (and
    q) seems a little narrow, compared to b/p, etc. I think it has the same width,
    but optically it looks less wide. Maybe you can try if you can optically balance
    this out, but we're talking a couple of units here. I like your <strong>s</strong>.\r\n\r\nOne
    thing that I see when looking at the pdf, is that the shapes are quite 'rigid',
    so to speak. They are very 'well-behaved'. You have put some playful aspect into
    them, like the curly endings and such, but maybe you can try to introduce some
    more small details that give it a more lively and human appearance. For example
    small changes/cuts in line-direction and things like that. I don't mean you should
    ditch this version, it is getting better and better, but you can always give it
    a try. \r\nI am thinking little things, like in the following illustrations. Please
    excuse the rough auto-trace and quick edits.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f-1_5668.png]\r\n\r\nTop
    of <strong>f</strong> edited. Very rough crossbar edit, but you get the idea.
    I let the top terminal flare a little bit.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/p-1_4696.png]\r\n\r\nTop
    of the <strong>p</strong>. A subtle but sudden change in line-direction I mentioned
    earlier. Gives the impression of a written or cut line.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/t-1_4075.png]\r\n\r\nTop
    of the <strong>t</strong>. Shortened and altered top, less rigid crossbar.\r\n\r\nJust
    to give you an idea what I'm talking about. There are lots of places where you
    can introduce these kind of details, without making it annoying or anything like
    that."
  created: '2008-03-12 14:38:12'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I think you're right about trying to make it less rigid. It wasn't originally
    intended to look hand-drawn, but very clean and unfiddly. But I do think perhaps
    some more unique touches would help. \r\nI'm not convinced about flaring the hood
    of the f; all the other terminals taper. But I like your angled arch on that p.
    Yes, I don't want an annoying font! I want to keep it smooth and clean, so tweaks
    will need to be subtle.\r\nAnyway, I'm still tuning the shapes to each other,
    so i'll post another pdf soon. That o has grown on me but my gut feeling is still
    that it needs to be a different shape. \r\nI'm thinking of changing the name of
    the font to Robusta. That suits the bolder weights. It's a variety of coffee bean.
    James' comments made me think of it. What do you think? "
  created: '2008-03-12 19:57:45'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Of course, they were just a couple of examples that crossed my mind. The flaring
    and stuff. To make my post a bit more clear. I could see you intended it to be
    very clean and unfiddly, but I think some nice detailing might only make it stronger.
    If you do it consistently and subtle, it won't become annoying. And it will stay
    clean. You will probably not even see them, not consciously anyway. But it might
    give a page of text a nice texture, so to speak.
  created: '2008-03-12 21:19:29'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I noticed exactly what you mean when I increased the contrast from the previous
    iteration. It suddenly seemed more like writing than just shapes, and I think
    that's what I'm aiming for, (well naturally!) with the stress angle and slight
    deviations from horizontal/vertical strokes. \r\n\r\nI've just found out how to
    do simple opentype scripting so the ear of the r can fit diagonally with round
    letters but a vertical ear when space is crunched. \r\n\r\nDetailing, yes, and
    texture, yes. Hopefully I will be capable! :)\r\n\r\nThanks,"
  created: '2008-03-13 01:03:35'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "I'm quite confident you can do it Ben. Adding the kind of details Jelmar
    suggests will be noticable in different ways depending on the type size in print.\r\n\r\nAt
    large sizes, display sizes, everything will stand up to the prolonged scrutiny
    display typography invites, and at small sizes or text applications the extra
    detail will work as \"micro detailing\" and create a texture closer to letterpress,
    at the same time disguising the fact the outlines are digital.\r\n\r\n<strong>Robusta</strong>.
    Name suits the bold and heavy weights, but Eternal is a better word image for
    the regular. I would try to find a name that covers the full range of weights.
    Maybe another kind of coffee bean, or something along those lines. \r\n\r\nJelmar---nice
    moves mister! This and your excellent work on Rough Cut indicate a strong natural
    ability at type design. A lightning-quick learner :^)\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-03-15 01:59:54'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I think it will end up nice, Ben. It's already shaping up nicely, with some
    additional finetuning it'll be great.\r\n\r\nJames -- Thanks. Only doing my best!
    ;)"
  created: '2008-03-16 23:42:00'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Jelmar, I mean it man. I think you're a natural for type design, like a duck
    to water, and it shows, and you have a bright future career in the bizness.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-03-17 10:14:51'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Do you like this direction? (work in progress)\r\nIt <strong>is</strong>
    looking more handwritten, unexpectedly."
  created: '2008-03-21 04:18:25'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Yes! Absolutely! I think this is definitely going in the right direction.\r\nThe
    single storey <strong>g</strong> and <strong>a</strong> are great. I see you have
    incorporated those little details in that <strong>g</strong> where the lower part
    of the bowl joins the stem. I like it! Those are the things I meant, and you should
    probably sneak them in other characters as well.\r\n\r\nAlso, I see a minor problem
    with the <strong>b</strong> which has to do with your concerns with the <strong>o</strong>.
    See the attached image. They are autotraces, so might be a bit bumpy. I changed
    the counter of the <strong>b</strong>. I 'rotated' it slightly, counter-clockwise.
    This way it is more in line with the counter of the <strong>o</strong> and the
    open insides of the <strong>c</strong> and <strong>e</strong>.\r\nSorry that the
    image is huge, but otherwise you can't see it properly. The filesize is small,
    though. Only 34 kB.\r\n\r\nI'll go over your pdf again later, when I have more
    time.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/eternal-b-example2_5170.png]"
  created: '2008-03-21 17:48:14'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Yes. I was happy with the outside of the bowl on that b and forgot that the
    inside bowl needed more rotation. I think the angle of stress has increased on
    most glyphs but this one was left behind.\r\nThere are other inconsistencies too!
    It's only when I look at blocks of text that they show up. The M is too narrow;
    so are the B and R. The middle branch of the a needs to be thinner and quite possible
    angled slightly. The base of the i is too fat. \r\nI somehow overlooked giving
    the bowls of the lowercase an overshoot at the x-line, so the s or c look smaller
    than the v or w, sadly. Need to reconcile those somehow. \r\nI'm not sure about
    some cupping on the base serifs. I think I put a tiny amount on the r, but quite
    like the flatness of the other shapes: another decision. \r\nAnd I'm not completely
    happy with the w. The middle should be lower, the inside counters more open.\r\nWhat
    a challenge! :)"
  created: '2008-03-21 20:16:08'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Took a look at the new pdf a bit better now.\r\n\r\nv/w -- can use a little
    overshoot on the baseline as well. Probably not as much as the round characters,
    but nevertheless. Check the word 'overshoot' in your pdf, the 'v' looks smaller.
    (On a sidenote, I think the w works better than the v).\r\n\r\ny -- somehow seems
    a bit too wide. And the bottom terminal could use a little love, maybe an increase
    of weight, I don't know exactly.\r\n\r\nr -- I hope I'm not sounding too harsh,
    but it's not really working for me. It looks less defined than some of the other
    characters. For starters I think the ear should probably start lower on the stem.
    A bit like it does in the n. I'm also not sure about the wedge serif on the ending.\r\n\r\ne
    -- when the e is next to vertical strokes, it seem the verticals are heavier.
    Some of the round characters, especially the e, might need a couple of units more
    weight on the thickest part of their bowls. But it seems it depends on which vertical
    character is next to it, so it might be that the problem lies there.\r\n\r\nsingle
    storey g -- has the same issue as the e. See the word 'vague' in your pdf. The
    thickest part of the bowl of the g is lighter than the same part on the e and
    single storey a.\r\n\r\nk -- while it is good (!), may I suggest you look at the
    k of Arnhem (OurType.be). It can give you some ideas on how to make it an even
    more interesting shape.\r\n\r\ny/g/single g -- the descending parts of these characters
    are too short? They are shorter than the descender of the p, for example. For
    the sake of consistency and rhythm I would make them of (optical) equal length.
    But if you planned it this way, I guess that's ok. :)\r\n\r\nIf I see anything
    else, I'll add it later. Keep it up! :) \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-21 23:58:52'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Mmmm! These comments are fully interesting...\r\nGive me a few weeks and
    I'll get back to you :)\r\nThank you, very positive critique. \r\nYou're right
    about the thickness of verticals. I haven't measured them at all and not even
    put them next to each other, so it's highly probable there are horrific weight
    differences. That's true for the bowls too. I didn't want to just copy the beziers
    from one glyph to another, so i'll need to make sure they're optically consistent.\r\nI
    never suspected it was proper to allow the v and w to overshoot! And I accept
    the foot of the y needs something. \r\nThat k in Arnhem is nice; you mean the
    knee I suppose.\r\nYes, the g and y are a lot shorter than the p and q. They seemed
    not to need to be any longer. It was intentional. I don't know if that means I
    was mistaken or innovative. I can't think of any other fonts that have that quirk.
    To make them drop as low as the other descenders would ruin the g, I fear. Do
    I need to go back to the drawing board there, perhaps?\r\nVery many thanks for
    the comments. Spot on :) This type design thing just gets more interesting!"
  created: '2008-03-22 02:26:24'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "As far as I know, overshooting the apex of the v/w is done more often. Usually
    when it joins in a sharp point. But even with your v/w, I think it's ok to do
    so.\r\n\r\nAbout the g and y, I guess it's not <em>wrong</em> that they are shorter.
    Maybe James or someone else can give more insight in that. But I think a complex
    shape like the g can use the extra space, to give it some room.\r\n\r\nAnd it
    indeed gets more interesting every time. :)"
  created: '2008-03-22 11:30:49'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Sorry guys I'm very busy for the time being. I've got the new PDF and will
    try look at it over the next few days.\r\n\r\nJelmar: <em>About the g and y, I
    guess it\u2019s not wrong that they are shorter. Maybe James or someone else can
    give more insight in that. But I think a complex shape like the g can use the
    extra space, to give it some room.</em>\r\n\r\nIf it was a metal font made by
    punching matrices with letterpunches and casting from the matrices, variations
    of alignment and character height would probably be as pronounced as these. As
    long as the ascender and descender lengths of different letters are of comparable
    length, spectators seldom notice these variations, unless they happen to be typophiles.
    \r\n\r\nDon't hesitate to cheat a bit here and there, and break your own rules.
    It's an element of humanism. \r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-03-26 11:45:16'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Ahh. No worries I am going to Italy for a few nice days holiday.\r\nMy numbers
    are now looking much more suitable, and with lining, oldstyle and x-height versions
    (do they have a special name to fit with the small caps?). I've cut the corners
    of v and w as James suggested somewhere before (like in Dolly; what a nice font!)
    and experimented with the knee of the k as in Arnhem, looks nice. I've rotated
    the inner counters of the b and p and thorn. They match better now, thanks. I've
    done alternates with serifs for the a, f, j, and y.  They look super so perhaps
    the original glyphs will become the alternates. I'll post a pdf when I'm back
    in the UK.\r\n\r\nOh, what does it mean:\r\n[WARNING] <Eternal> The feature file
    OS/2 overrides TypoAscender and TypoDescender do not sum to the font bbox size!\r\n\r\nHow
    do I know what the typoascender and typodescender values should be? I've clicked
    the auto button but that error keeps appearing...any ideas?\r\n\r\nTHanks!"
  created: '2008-03-27 00:41:08'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I've been discussing some of the topics raised in this thread with James,
    via e-mail, since he's taking a break from Typophile. As he was helping you in
    this thread before he left, he wanted to respond to your last post.\r\n \r\nConsider
    shortening the descenders on the p and q to bring them closer to those of the
    g and the y. Also, after giving it some thought, make the descenders of the g
    and y longer. Or at least, make all of them consistent. The difference in lenght
    becomes especially apparent in display sizes, where it may be distracting.\r\n\r\nAbout
    the error message you are getting on TypoAscender and TypoDescender: reduce any
    characters that extend past the descender and ascender lines, then recalculate
    the values via the Font Info menu, using the button with the jewel icon on it.
    The two values should add up to the numer of units per em that the font scale
    is set to. \r\nIt might be that only the bar and broken bar have to be shortened.
    If that doesn't fix the problem, some accents might have been placed too high
    up that will need to come down a bit.\r\n\r\nJames gave me an example: if the
    font is scaled to 1000 units per em, the typo ascender is typically around 850,
    and the typo descender about -150. \r\nIf they're a bit less you can pad the values
    by typing in a number manually. \r\nAs long as those two values add up to 1000
    the error condition should go away.  You ignore the negative sign of typo descender--only
    the numbers matter.\r\n\r\nImportant: make a copy of the Fontlab file first and
    make the changes to that to be safe.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-03 22:06:25'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Wow! You guys are so thoughtful :) Please thank James for his input!\r\nHere
    are the alterations I mentioned a while back. It's funny that most of the glyphs
    I originally liked a lot have changed...the a, the e, the r, and now that g looks
    kind of miniature compared to the other letters. I've overdone the overshoot on
    the v and w but like the effect of the sloping corners. The lining 2 is playing
    tricks on me. I restyled the ? and #. I think the serif on the a makes it look
    more 'finished' somehow.\r\nI find the ampersand ugly now. The quotes are a weird
    shape and too long. The R and M are fatter but the R needs work. The s/c 5 is
    hideous. Tilde needs correct contrast. T and C serifs longer. \r\nIs there a general
    size that the fraction numerals should be? I don't know how they should line up...and
    simply scaling them looks stringy. Does the fraction line usually go to the baseline
    and cap height or is that up to me? What about the circles of the % sign?\r\nI've
    kept the sans a, f, j, y as a stylistic set. \r\nAnd i'm not finished giving more
    texture to the shapes. \r\nMight try a stylistic set without curly toes?\r\nAnd
    I'll fiddle with the bounding boxes.\r\nI've spared you from the terrifying ligatures!\r\nMany
    many thankyous! :)"
  created: '2008-04-04 19:24:07'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I will check out that new PDF better when I have some more time. Quickly
    looked at it, and it's looking nice. If I see anything that I want to comment
    on, I'll post later.\r\n\r\nJames said to me that you can contact him via email
    to further discuss your typeface, if you want. His email is: james dot arboghast
    at gmail dot com."
  created: '2008-04-07 16:33:41'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Here are the latest changes. \r\nDescenders are similar lengths. v and w
    overshoot fixed.\r\nI've fixed the bounding boxes, thanks for that.\r\nHere are
    some observations that perhaps are just my eyes, what do you think?\r\nK and k
    are too narrow.\r\nv too wide? w too narrow?\r\np too wide? tail of y not quite
    low enough? too fiddly?\r\nHead of g too small?\r\nM, O and Q too dark?\r\nJ descender
    too short?\r\nWaist (?) of lf 3 too high, lf 2 needs more weight up top.\r\nSC
    M way too narrow. Not sure how that happened.\r\nHorn is too dark.\r\nDiaresis
    not aligned with i dot.\r\n\xC6 and \u0152 too weird? \r\nI need to fix the contour
    direction on glyphs like \xD8 and \u0111.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-13 02:46:55'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "<strong>k:</strong> I don't think it really is too narrow, instead I think
    the arm and leg are too light. This might give the impression it's too narrow.\r\n<strong>v/w:</strong>
    Don't look too wide or narrow to me.\r\n<strong>p:</strong> While I think it isn't
    too wide on its own, compared to b/d/q it seems it is. If you want to change this,
    I suggest you don't just narrow the p, but look at all of them; making some a
    bit more wide, others narrower. Evening them out optically.\r\n<strong>y:</strong>
    I like the way the tail curves. But I agree the terminal might be a bit too fiddly.
    One thing that would help, is making the right stroke plus tail a bit heavier.
    It looks too light, eventhough it's probably of the same weight as your typeface's
    lightest parts.\r\n<strong>g:</strong> I agree that the head of the g might indeed
    be a little bit too small. It looked right with in the shorter version, but not
    so much anymore now. But I do think the extended version looks nicer overall than
    before.\r\n<strong>M/O/Q:</strong> O and Q are definitely a bit too dark. I'm
    not sure about the M, though. \r\n<strong>J:</strong> Technically it looks short,
    but optically not so much. Making it the same lenght as the lowercase descenders
    would probably make it too long. It should just look right optically.\r\n\r\nMay
    I suggest you make a new PDF in which you set a couple of words with the characters
    in it you mention in your last post? Like w, v, y, etc. Words where those characters
    are at the beginning, in the middle and at the end. So we can judge the quality
    of those characters in their context (without having to search for them in your
    latest PDF). You can use the documents made from the [[http://www.typophile.com/node/31399|Languages
    in a glance]] thread for words.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-13 17:42:24'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I've been working on the Black weight...i know there are issues with colour
    and style, but please do crit. I'll be going back to the Regular at some point,
    but needed the Black to think through how the shapes might change, and triangulate
    back to the regular weight. I want to do a thin with long serifs too, have a few
    letters sketched.\r\nThanks for your ideas! "
  created: '2008-05-20 23:58:43'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Should I start a new thread?
  created: '2008-05-20 23:59:25'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: Very nifty. I'm not sure if the crossbar of the A is quite working yet at
    this weight.
  created: '2008-05-21 00:19:19'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: The letters with diagonals have been the hardest. V, W, X, Y and Z. You're
    probably right that the crossbar on the A should join, I'll give that a try. The
    B and R were disconnected in the regular but had to join up here, so it would
    make sense to do the same with the A. It's probably got enough character without
    a distracting A.
  created: '2008-05-21 17:41:01'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "You don't have to make a new thread, in my opinion. :)\r\n\r\nI'm very busy
    at the moment, but I have downloaded the latest PDF's, and I'll write a post later.
    :)"
  created: '2008-05-21 18:49:20'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thanks Jelmar. I e-mailed the two latest ones to James too, he's busy too
    but very much likes the black...will be interesting to see if you suggest similar
    things!\r\n\r\nI just wondered about the new thread as this is now starting to
    take a while to buffer, with all the images."
  created: '2008-05-21 19:59:34'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I like the black a lot too! It feels really warm and friendly, without getting
    too comical.\r\n\r\nI do think the black lowercase works a bit better than the
    uppercase, although I love the W. Because of the middle, where the two strokes
    join with the rounded off top. The lowercase w also has this, only reversed. At
    first sight I think the direction of the rounding looks better in the uppercase
    version, but I would have to see it in a sentence. I like the R as well.\r\nThe
    g looks a bit too complicated to me. Maybe there is too much happening, in an
    already complex character shape. It might also look a bit too light, maybe because
    of the opening in the bottom loop. It's not wrong, but you might try to simplify
    it a little bit.\r\nThe uppercase A and M might be a bit too wide, and the N a
    bit too narrow. I really like what you did with the k, really nice. I think the
    lower left corner of the b curves up a bit too far, which somewhat disturbs the
    wordshape, for example in the word 'suitable' in your specimen. It might look
    ok in other words, though...\r\n\r\nAs you already state in your pdf, there are
    some inconsistencies in the angle of stress, but also weight. The characters b,
    d, g, p and q have some angle of stress issues. The weight issues are mainly in
    the uppercase characters.\r\n\r\nAbout the thread; it doesn't really load very
    slow for me. You can make a new thread if you want, but I think it's good that
    the critique and images are in one place, so people can scroll through the changes
    you have made so far.\r\n\r\nIf I think of something else, I'll add it later.
    But keep it up. \r\nAnd I hope I didn't contradict James too much! ;)"
  created: '2008-05-22 17:10:33'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Ha, well i'm very pleased you like it! I totally agree about the lowercase
    being more harmonious than the capitals...may need to rethink the parameters a
    bit.\r\nI'm surprised you mentioned the W first! That is a very interesting point
    because I found the diagonal shapes hardest and thought W was a bit of a disappointment.
    There is so much white space below its arms (and with the V) that it looks funny
    setting it next to a vertical stem. I need to perhaps think of a trick. I tried
    that roundy corner facing the other way on the W but that looked bad. It didn't
    strike me to try the lowercase w the other way, but i think it might work too.\r\nThe
    g is a fun one. I originally had the tail the same thickness as the other letters,
    but the shape was really distorted, that's why it looks light...i had to cheat
    to keep the shape right. I think I may close off the bottom loop to make it darker
    and simplify the contours. I must say I wanted all the shapes to be interesting,
    but they have perhaps ended up difficult on the eye. \r\nSomehow Q is staring
    at me like an unplayable instrument in an orchestra. Is it permissible to add
    a toe on the foot like on the y?\r\nWith b, I found a blob of dark when the corner
    is lower, but let's see if I can do better. You're right it is a bit lively.\r\nA
    and M do suddenly look lots too wide. I was aiming for this Black weight to be
    more condensed than usual blacks.\r\nThere are weight issues because I have simply
    moved the contours by eye, nothing is really measured. Are there any letters which
    stick out especially? With the contrast, I find that naturally b and q take on
    more of an angle, which I can't apply very easily the other way round on the d
    and p. I'll try some tricks there too.\r\nI think the k is satisfying too. I only
    just resolved the R. It is funny you like the letters with diagonal strokes best.\r\nNumbers,
    still fighting me...especially 2. It's so insolent, I want to physically make
    the outline with bendy wire and force it into the proper shape.\r\nI'm closing
    off the A.\r\nMay take a while to sort out the shapes..."
  created: '2008-05-22 21:49:57'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I think the W looks nice. I couldn't judge if it's too wide or if there are
    other problems with it. You obviously do know from designing it. But at first
    glance it's a nice shape. The roundy bit is also nice on the lowercase w, so by
    all means try both approaches.\r\nAbout the g, it's not horrible or anything,
    just that double story g's are already quite complex on themselves. Your g does
    work when looking at it in the context of a word. But you could always try what
    happens if you play with it a little more. \r\nThe Q, I can see what you mean.
    If it's permissable to add the toe... well I'm not stopping you. ;) You could
    also try what happens if you move the tail more to a 5-o-clock position. You might
    be right that the b becomes too black in the corner if you lower the lower left
    part. Luckily you can easily try with b\xE9ziers! :) If you lower it, you should
    probably also lower the inside of the same corner as well, so the bottom stroke
    stays about the same thickness.\r\nA and M do look kinda wide, and when looking
    at the specimen again, I think the W (that I like) is also on the wide side. At
    least, by looking at the 'CHOCOLATE SANDWICH BISCUIT'.  It could also be that
    it is the other way around, and that the <em>other</em> characters are too narrow.
    In that case, it's 'just' a matter of balancing. The weight issues are mostly
    in the uppercase as well, not really a few sticking out.\r\nThe angle on the b
    and q and d/p; I think you got it pretty right in the other weights, so I'm sure
    it will work out in this weight too.\r\n\r\nInteresting that I like the diagonals
    indeed. The k is nice, better than the K. The R is working pretty good (on its
    own, don't know what it will look like in a word). What do you think you find
    tricky when doing the diagonals? Is it the fact that they usually look too heavy,
    or something else?\r\n\r\nI don't really hate the 2 to be honest, but I realise
    that by me saying that, it only gets more difficult for you. ;) I think the 3,
    4 and 5 are nice. 6 could use a bit of work, while 9 (being practically the same
    shape) isn't really bothering me that much. I like the way you put the weight
    in the 7, although it might stand out a bit in the group. The shape of the 8 is
    fine, but needs some finetuning. Thats what I think, but I don't have alot of
    experience at drawing numbers myself, so I'm probably not the best person to give
    advice on them. Are you planning any oldstyle figures as well?\r\n\r\nWell, I
    hope I touched on all points you mentioned in your last post. ;)"
  created: '2008-05-23 01:37:17'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Yay! 100 replies! \r\nThanks everyone!\r\n\r\nWith the diagonals, it was
    mainly the white space of the counters that was hard to reduce. I think i'm getting
    there though. \r\nI'll go through these comments later, and see what can be done
    to sort out the wayward letters.\r\n:)"
  created: '2008-05-23 16:30:57'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@Bendy(via email):<em>The regular is falling into shape, but still needs
    more consistency with strokes as some are now narrowing in the middle and others
    are not there yet. Can you see any drastic problems with contrast, glyph shapes
    or bumps? </em>\r\n\r\nWhen printed your PDF for the regular font shows a basic
    issue which you should attend to before doing too much else. In the lower case
    the vertical strokes (stems) are optically heavier than the curves. This is most
    noticable on \"a\", \"c\", \"o\" and \"e\", and the bowl letter pairs. At serious
    text sizes the uncompensated weight of the curves may cause uneven or patchy color.\r\n\r\n<em>I'm
    not sure about the y tail, i think the Q is somehow still too heavy and the V
    and W need feet like the v and w.</em>\r\n\r\nFor y, crank the curve on the tail
    tip back anti-clockwise and make the serif smaller. To reduce the ponderous nature
    of Q reduce the tail stroke width from joint to tip; is the Q body identical to
    O? It doesn't have to be. Q can be shorter in height with the top cuve overshooting
    the caps line and the bottom curve sitting above the baseline, no problem. I've
    done it a few times and it works.\r\n\r\nYes, match the feet of V and W to the
    lower case v and w.\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>I can't get happy with the 2.</em>\r\n\r\nDrawing
    a good 2 takes a bit of practice. For yours I would try to simplify the base stroke
    (foot?) by getting rid of the asymmetry. The spine of your 2 flattens out as it
    approaches the baseline. To make the spine look more agreeable redraw it so it's
    a concave curve all the way from where it starts at the top right down to the
    junction (joint?) Take the curve of the lower half of your 3 and weld that into
    the 2 as a replacement, then adjust as needed.\r\n\r\n<em>You can see I got carried
    away with the ligatures and went too far.</em>\r\n\r\nYes ;^) \r\n\r\n<em>The
    black is what i've been working on lately, and I may need to change the shapes
    substantially. I've tidied up the disparate overshoot. I want to join up the A
    crossbar, and wonder about K curving like k.</em>\r\n\r\nYes. It's a good plan.\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>W
    and w only looked right with opposite facing middles.</em>\r\n\r\nYep.\r\n\r\n<em>The
    diagonal letters are hard in a fat font, yes?</em>\r\n\r\nYes they are.\r\n\r\n<em>Again,
    the tail of y bothers me because I'm not sure why it fits there like it is.</em>\r\n\r\nSolve
    this in the regular first then adapt the solution to the black.\r\n\r\n<em>The
    numbers are fighting me again, but I think they just need fiddling.</em>\r\n\r\nYes.
    I can speed that up for you by doing a quick tidy-up, if you output the nums as
    individual EPS files or send me the VFB file by email.\r\n\r\n<em>I had to cheat
    with the g tail, it's not as fat as it should be but overall the colour fits with
    the other glyphs i think.</em>\r\n\r\nSame as above.\r\n\r\n<em>Do you think D
    needs another serif?</em>\r\n\r\nNo, just give it less turn-up from horizontal
    at the base, same with G\r\n\r\n<em>Lowercase l is not singing loud enough.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's
    a very different design compared to the regular l.\r\n\r\n<em>e has a nice mood
    but looks a bit untamed. I wanted also the inner counters of s to be more vertical
    than diagonal, but they wouldn't go that way without ruining the angle of stress.</em>\r\n\r\ns
    -- give the outer profile of the tips less curve-in*. That will put more meat
    on the serifs and allow you to open up the counters a bit, and may even give more
    leeway with the angle (no promises, try it and see how it works out). Study the
    font known as Aachen.\r\n* do the same for the sharp corners of b and q\r\n\r\n<em>I
    think the next move on the black is to add some texture to the strokes, like I
    did on the regular?</em>\r\n\r\nSounds good. Don't get too carried away.\r\n\r\n<em>I
    think L needs more weight, so may need to add it to the foot serif.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    exactly what it needs. The serif is the only place you can add weight to your
    L without fattening the stem.\r\n\r\n<em>Finally, it looks like the caps have
    rounder curves than the lc...should it be more consistent? (See Vv, Xx or Yy)</em>\r\n\r\nDepends
    how modular you want the finished type to be. You can try to make those parts
    better match each other, but does such a move really make the font \"better\",
    or only different? Only the designer can judge these things. The rest of the world
    is always wrong, even when it's right.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-05-23 22:21:13'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Ooh. Gosh! Thank you!\r\nIt suddenly feels very daunting to have so much
    advice :) It feels I have a lot to learn, which is fantastic and inspiring, and
    in need of an emergency exit. \r\nJames and Jelmar, very much thank you, I can
    learn a hell of a lot from you. You are seeing things I had no conception of,
    and that is great.\r\nWith the 2, keeping the curve along the spine made it hard
    to join up at the bottom, I did try to do that, and the bottom came up away off
    the baseline, and wouldn't go back. I think 2 is my least favourite glyph. I'd
    like to see how pasting the lower loop of the 3 works though. Thanks for the tip
    on the Q, I would not have thought of that. Similarly with the s.\r\nI've got
    a long weekend, so as well as peace and quiet with my family, I will use some
    time to look into all these suggestions. I think it will be a while before my
    next serious revision, there is a lot of work here. (I wouldn't want this to be
    easy...:)\r\nJames, thanks for your offer with the numbers, I'll have a see what
    I can do with your suggestions and if I am still having a battle I will forward
    the vfb to you; but I don't want to disrupt your other work, and this needs to
    be a learning curve for me, even when it's impossible!\r\nI've tightened up the
    top of the black l, I think the sloppy curve was all I was bothered about. I think
    the whole of the black weight is very different to the regular: an intentional
    decision.\r\nL, let's see what happens. I thought that was the only place more
    weight could be added. \r\nI'm struggling to believe there can be so much to know
    about type design. Respect to type designers!\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2008-05-24 01:41:01'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Please see latest version pdf at top of page. Uppercase have been made heavier
    and more intentional looking. Feedback welcomed! :)
  created: '2008-07-15 17:48:36'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Hi Ben, good to see a new PDF! I think that its starting to look more polished
    overall, as in; nice fluent lines.\r\n\r\nI see only a few minor issues at this
    point:\r\n\r\n- X and Y look a bit too light.\r\n- U looks too narrow.\r\n\r\nIf
    I see something else, I'll add it later. :)"
  created: '2008-07-16 16:16:53'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Well, nearly a year after I started...here is the current state of this font.
    It's been a LOT more work than I naively expected, and I'm sure there is still
    plenty of work to be done on things like spacing, kerning and perhaps hinting
    (I don't fully understand even what that entails).\r\nIt's been a fun project
    for my spare time, something outside the 9-5, more as a personal thing than for
    commercial use. \r\nDo tell me what you think so far. I'm sure there are a lot
    of useful opinions out there.\r\nHere are my latest notes on the letter shapes.\r\nThe
    UPPERCASE LETTERS have more consistency of colour, the serifs are more pronounced
    and the strokes have better texture, to give a slightly cursive feel to the forms.
    Problem areas have included the D, P, R, and T. I am still not happy with these
    shapes. D looks slightly light, the serif is not strong enough and the 2 o\u2019clock
    section needs to be thicker. P and R were too smooth and rounded; the R is now
    too square and the bottom of the bowl on the P wants to be straighter, perhaps.
    T is proving difficult to get the serifs at a sensible angle, width and height.
    My next uppercase glyphs for experiment include the A, J, N, V, W, and X. Of these,
    I have adjusted only the A recently and it is looking too wide. The others are
    in need of more texturing and stroke tapering. O and Q always look distorted and
    are difficult to make beautiful. I am happy with B, E, F, G, H, I, L, M, U and
    Y as these are the most expressive characters in this font so far, and the redistibution
    of the weight into the serifs and away from the middle of the stems has been most
    successful. H and U were widened, E and M are particular favourites.\r\n\u2003As
    for lowercase, I have added more quirkiness, taking the shapes away from their
    underlying geometric components to emphasise their individuality. In response
    to the heavier serifs in the uppercase, the lowercase has stronger terminals,
    especially on the vertical stems. The non-linear stems of the uppercase have also
    been transposed onto lowercase letters such as b, d, f, h, k, l, m, n, p and r.
    Some more adjustments will be needed on the remaining letters, which have been
    given better overall form but need more impact. The letters v, w, x, y, and z
    seem to present a difficulty as I have not decided which way the diagonal strokes
    should be weighted. \r\n\u2003It will be very interesting to see how all these
    latest changes will be implemented in the black weight, which was originated as
    a clean and square, blocky ultrafat headline font.\r\n\u2003The lowercase italic
    letters are beginning to coalesce into pleasantly coherent structures, with each
    letter looking more like a unit and less like a collection of parts, or like a
    sloped roman glyphs. I have started a set of italic uppercase letters but they
    look a bit of a mash right now. The letters that are working best, I think, are
    the a, f, g, j, n, o (interestingly), r, t, u and v. I have two versions of x
    (\xA3 and x) which are fighting to be included. b looks too wide, c too oblong,
    e perhaps needs a smaller eye (though I\u2019m fond of big eyes), h could be wider,
    k, m and s are in need of work, and w, y and z again have the problem of diagonal
    strokes which needs to be resolved. f and t of course need to have the overlap
    added.\r\n\u2003My numerals are still not fitting into harmony. Here they are:
    1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0. I think they will perhaps become easier once the uppercase
    is more solid. They are quite different in structure to the letters, of course.\r\n\u2003Please
    let me know your observations and feelings about this font so far. They are very
    useful!"
  created: '2008-09-09 00:56:02'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Nice, the longer pieces of text look really balanced, as in; nothing really
    jumps out when looking at the whole.\r\n\r\nAnd the italic is really coming along
    nicely. That's a very tasty <em>k</em> especially.\r\nI think the italic <em>f</em>
    could be slightly too light. But overall I think it's well in line with the roman.\r\n\r\nI'll
    go over the PDF a bit better later. :)"
  created: '2008-09-11 16:06:58'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hey Jelmar, thanks...i was wondering if it was a good thing that nobody commented
    yet...or whether it meant I should give up...not really.\r\nI'm glad you think
    the italic is tasty...somehow there seems to be a freer structure and I wasn't
    sure it complemented the roman so that's very nice to hear. Sorry i wrote so much
    above! That's possibly quite off-putting!\r\nIt's nice also that nothing is jumping
    out. I think there is still quite a bit of work as I said there. I the best way
    to fix the sidebearings just by looking at a long page of text and refine/print/refine/print
    until it all falls into place?\r\nI'm noticing things in the long text that don't
    come up in a short preview string, like the right side of the e has too much space,
    l has no breathing room, v needs some kerning etc. I don't know how the kerning
    works in fontlab, is there a tutorial somewhere other than the fontlab manual
    which I don't understans. (i'm not usually thick!)\r\nLook forward to hearing
    your comments! Cheers ;)"
  created: '2008-09-11 22:13:24'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "The capitals feel a bit off, their heights aren't quite as homogenized as
    i would normally expect, and at certain sizes it's painfully obvious on screen
    (printed it probably wouldn't be as bad).  For example, the D is a good bit shorter,
    but since it's a curve, I'd expect it to be taller than the others.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-09-11 23:17:33'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Hi Matthew, thanks for noticing that. I see what you mean. Do you think that's
    the case for not only the D but also the C, G, O, and Q? Would increasing the
    overshoot on those help the capitals feel more regular, or is there more to 'feeling
    a bit off'? Cheers ;)
  created: '2008-09-12 00:09:58'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Any suggestions for the problem areas highlighted here?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fffffff_3447.jpg]\r\nThe
    dieresis gives the beak of the f a ball terminal, which doesn't fit with any other
    terminals. And where the beak joins a stem it makes a bit black blob. Any fonts
    I can look at for ideas? Cheers :)"
  created: '2008-09-12 00:31:00'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I think it's perfectly fine for the f to have a ball terminal where the beak
    crashes into a ball shape. It should be there on the fi ligature too. But then
    what do you do for the other i diacritics, including f_dotlessi?\r\nYou may have
    to do the Turkish dodge and just design a non-crashing f with condensed beak to
    go adjacent to i variants, in lieu of ligatures."
  created: '2008-09-12 02:09:18'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t know how the kerning works in fontlab,</em>\r\n\r\nIf you
    open Kerning Mode in a Metrics Window, it's actually quite self explanatory. You
    can basically grab letters and drag them to one side or the other, either adding
    positive or negative space to the pairs of letters. \r\nIt's handy to open the
    'Kerning Table' on the Metric Window (one of the buttons at the top) so you get
    a list of all pairs you've already made for quick review or changes. \r\nAlso
    handy is loading a txt file in the Metrics Window with a good set of words that
    contain the most used pairs (like [[http://www.logofontandlettering.com/kernking.html|Kern
    King]] for example)."
  created: '2008-09-16 16:52:17'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thanks Jelmar, I've figured out how the kerning works. Not very difficult
    at all thankfully ;)\r\n\r\nSome questions:\r\n\r\nSome of the serifs are bothering
    me as they seem to look weak now that most of the serifs have been darkened. The
    top left corner of the N (maybe needs to be a different shape?). I looked at Plantin's
    N and then it all went wrong for me... :( \r\nThe lack of a serif on the bottom
    of the D (originally I liked the unique shape but now think it may just be a distracting
    anomaly). The top of the 5 (again, was originally nice to be different but may
    just be annoying?). Some of the vertical serifs on the capitals I think need more
    bracketing...like the E and Z?\r\n\r\nI've got round some of the other difficulties,
    such as the join of fl, harmonising the upward slope of the P, R, D and B, balancing
    the bowls of the &, and giving the S and s a less curving spine so the gradient
    is steeper and more in tune with the other letters. Should the arms on an x be
    slightly thinner towards the middle?\r\n\r\nThe numerals are slowly sinking into
    an obedient tempo with the 2 and 3 still acting slightly indignantly with their
    left-facing openings. They don't like to be jostled.\r\n\r\nI've started some
    Thai characters and will need some advice on how the combining marks should be
    programmed and positioned...this looks hideously complicated.\r\n\r\nI'll post
    a new pdf when I'm happy with the current round of amendments. The next task I
    think will be the sidebearings and kerning, so I'll do a pdf with text blocks
    at different sizes?"
  created: '2008-10-30 22:06:38'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Would removing some of the old PDFs help this page to display faster? It takes
    ages now :(
  created: '2008-10-30 22:08:09'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "The PDFs are just static links, barely a line of text on the page that shouldn't
    add significantly to the download time. The inline images, however, do contribute
    to the download time, and I don't think there is much you can do about that except
    turn off image display in your browser preferences.\r\n\r\nOr you can do what
    I did for Agamemnon when it got unruly and start a whole new thread with a link
    back to this original one in the first post."
  created: '2008-10-31 04:27:01'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "OH yes there are a lot of big pictures. And a lot of text. \r\nI'll start
    a new thread when I'm uploading the next pdf. Thanks ;)"
  created: '2008-10-31 18:21:41'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Does the colon have to have the bottom dot resting on the same baseline as
    the full-stop/period? The gap looks far too wide... :S
  created: '2008-10-31 18:44:23'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "On text faces, I've observed that the lower dot of the colon and semicolon
    are generally the same as a period and comma, respectively, while the upper dot
    rides near the x-height. This is so it lines up with the lower case in body copy.
    With the quotation mark at the top above a colon, the dots are often evenly spaced
    vertically.\r\n\r\nThe colon and semicolon may ride higher than the period in
    display weights, especially when used in all-caps setting."
  created: '2008-10-31 19:11:09'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "That's good to know. I need to decide if this is a display face then!\r\n\r\nSee
    the last pdf, i just wanted any opinions on the shapes and/or serifs and/or stress.
    I realise this would be easier with text in paragraphs but sorry I'm on the way
    out now and don't have time. Any suggestions would be great.\r\n\r\nEspecially
    in the Thai letters, I don't know quite when a serif needs to be a loop or whether
    that is my choice.\r\n\r\nHappy Halloween!"
  created: '2008-10-31 19:37:04'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I really like those italics. They are nice and clean like the roman, but
    also have artifacts in them from the broad-nibbed pen.\r\n\r\nCan't write a longer
    reply now. I'll do that when I have more time. :)"
  created: '2008-11-02 22:42:13'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thanks Jelmar, can you tell I went straight to beziers rather than drawing
    by hand!? I think it still needs a lot of tidying up. Look forward to hearing
    your longer reply. \r\n\r\nI noticed the stress on a, g, and e (there are other
    examples) is too vertical: the glyphs hadn't changed much since a few iterations
    ago and I'd left them as I thought they defined the face but now the stress is
    more angled and i've had to reengineer the curves... new post soon.\r\n\r\nWhere
    can I get feedback on the Thai characters? Although I lived in Thailand for several
    years, and can read and write Thai, the characters will never be as familiar as
    the Roman alphabet and I may quite easily be bypassing essential stylistic coherencies
    with my foreigner's eyes."
  created: '2008-11-03 22:50:21'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Well, working backwards from the italics, I began to wonder what would happen
    if I moved the angle of contrast round a bit more on the roman. Some of the letters
    already had more 'oldstyle' stress, so I've tried to take the lead from those.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/contrast_3614.jpg]\r\nThe
    top is the previous iteration, with the more modern, vertical stress, which didn't
    quite work, or I hadn't managed to balance it consistently. \r\nThe bottom is
    what I've tried lately, with a more angled stress. It's most obvious on the s,
    but I may have overdone it there. There was something amazingly wrong with the
    height of the f, which is now corrected. I'm very surprised it took me so long
    to spot!\r\nI'm not sure what I'm doing with the foot of the d and on the p and
    q too...every time I try to resolve them I come up with a different solution.\r\nAnyway,
    I think I'm going with the latter. Will post a pdf soon, but would be interested
    to hear what you think of the kind of new direction this has taken...thanks!"
  created: '2009-01-16 19:44:37'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Yes I agree.  The newer stress angle looks much better.    The p and q with
    the double sided serif is best.  The single sided q is interesting but since it
    occurs with as great or greater frequency than the p in some languages (like Spanish)
    a body face like this really needs to have the same style of serif\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2009-01-17 00:15:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The new one looks much more polished. But it also looks much more mundane.
    We have plenty of fonts like it already. Sorry, but I'd go back.\r\n\r\nThis happens
    often. The initial creative spirit is overpowered by \"education\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-16 16:07:23'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hrant, thanks for stopping by exactly one year on! :)\r\n\r\nYou are completely
    right: I have changed the design concept entirely. Now Eternal is pretty chirographic
    and probably too pretty for body text. But it has character, which I somehow wasn't
    getting with the upright stress and the clean, sansy lines. \r\n\r\nI may come
    back to the previous iteration at some point, but for now, that's not the font
    I want to create. I think I need to fully explore the easier (perhaps) option
    before 'progressing' backwards. I know what you're saying about education and
    following the conventions but in this case I think education and learning is the
    right way.\r\n\r\n>This happens often\r\nThat is a relief and a mystery to me
    \u2014 to be in the same path as other people when following only my own judgments.
    Fascinating."
  created: '2010-01-18 23:59:04'
date: '2007-09-30 02:29:37'
files:
- filename: Eternal Draft 2_0.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Eternal Draft 2_0.pdf
- filename: Eternal in Columns.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Eternal in Columns.pdf
- filename: Eternal 2 Jan.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Eternal 2 Jan.pdf
- filename: Eternal 5 Jan.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Eternal 5 Jan.pdf
- filename: Eternal 5 Jan_0.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Eternal 5 Jan_0.pdf
- filename: Eternal Sample.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Eternal Sample.pdf
- filename: Eternal 5th March.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Eternal 5th March.pdf
- filename: Eternal 19 March.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Eternal 19 March.pdf
- filename: Eternal 4 April.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Eternal 4 April.pdf
- filename: Eternal 13 April.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Eternal 13 April.pdf
- filename: Eternal Black 20 May.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Eternal Black 20 May.pdf
- filename: eternal july08.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/eternal july08.pdf
- filename: eternal july08_0.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/eternal july08_0.pdf
- filename: Eternal Sept 9.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Eternal Sept 9.pdf
- filename: eternal regular oct08.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/eternal regular oct08.pdf
node_type: forum
title: 'Eternal: more angled stress'

---
