---
author:
  name: dezcom
  picture: 109959
body: "In the past few days, I have been plagued by a weird screen problem. It shows
  up on Mac interface items like Desktop, icons, menus, splash screens, etc,. A weird
  pattern of hash marks superimposes it self over the above items driving me nuts!\r\nSo
  far, I have booted from other volumes, run a plethora of utilities, zapped my Pram,
  rebooted all to now avail. None of my utilities show any problem. Except for where
  the mouse is pointing, all application windows look fine. Anything on the desktop
  or any navigation item including the Dock gets whammied, though. The splash screen
  gets a full dose for all aps.\r\nThe problem began after waking from sleep last
  friday (not my sleep, the computer's sleep).\r\n\r\nHere are a two screen grabs:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/drive-icons2_5359.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/inDsplash2_6546.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nAnyone
  seen this before or know how to fix it?\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "Whoa. That looks strange.\r\nI suggest you go here:\r\nhttp://discussions.apple.com/index.jspa\r\n\r\nI
    got great help there a couple of times."
  created: '2007-10-01 23:53:14'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "If you have a laptop/iMac, the video cable may have come loose and need to
    be reinserted\u2014which usually means sending the system to apple to be ripped
    open (most laptop models are <em>glued</em> together). If you can send a normal
    video signal to an external monitor that\u2019s a good sign, if external output
    does the same stuff, the video chip is fried and you\u2019ll likely need a new
    motherboard. If you have a desktop, try replacing the display cable.\r\n\r\nIn
    my experience, the Apple store in Clarendon will probably be the easiest in the
    area to get a repair appointment at. If they\u2019re booked up, try logging in
    at midnight to get an appointment."
  created: '2007-10-01 23:55:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks James and Jan! \r\nI have a desktop G5 dual circa 2004 and a 23 inch
    Apple flatscreen.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-10-01 23:59:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">the video cable may have come loose and need to be reinserted\r\n\r\nOne
    would have thought that the screen grab would not be garbled if that were the
    case?"
  created: '2007-10-02 00:00:12'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "How did you create the screenshots? Was it via Command + Shift + 3? This
    key command should always create a screenshot on your desktop. The files should
    be called \"Picture 1\", \"Picture 2\", etc. To me, it looks like a hardware problem,
    like a short in the monitor cable or some sort of interference. However, software
    screenshots are captured from the video buffer. If the screenshots look bad, it's
    something I haven't seen before...\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-02 00:03:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The screenshots were with Apple's command+shift+4 (and then drag around desired
    area).\r\nEverything else is sharp as usual and the disruption is limited to the
    interface items.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-10-02 00:10:07'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: 'Ok. You could try a Safe Boot. To do this you restart your computer holding
    down the Shift key before the startup chime. A Safe Boot resets certain system
    caches. Once the system is up with the red Safe Boot label on the login screen,
    check to see if the problem is still occurring, then restart normally. '
  created: '2007-10-02 00:17:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I tried removing and re-installing the cable--no change.\r\nI went to the
    ATI site and got the latest driver for my video card--no change\r\nI rebooted
    under \"safe Boot\" and part of the problem went away--the mouse still had the
    barcode lines following it around. When I rebooted back normally, the whole problem
    returned, WEIRD!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-10-02 01:28:02'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Carl made a good point\u2014if this is appearing in screenshots, the video
    chip is probably fried. On the upside, I don\u2019t get the impression that you
    have a laptop, so at worst you just need to install a new one. \r\n\r\nEdit: the
    safe boot thing is weird\u2014I wonder if you have a bad shader used to process
    one of the quartz 3D effects that gets turned off in safe mode."
  created: '2007-10-02 02:05:37'
- author:
    name: Ken Messenger
    picture: 111387
  body: "I recall having an issue similar to this but I can't remember what I did
    to fix it (I know, big help). But what I do remember is it was not a hardware
    issue but some kind of system problem.\r\n\r\nDid you install any firmware or
    software updates just before this appeared? Could be worth checking for any bad
    prefs if you know the day it started."
  created: '2007-10-02 02:14:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I installed minor updates to Dreamweaver and upgraded my Fireworks to CS3.
    I don't recall the order of when my problem occurred though.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-10-02 02:17:39'
- author:
    name: Ken Messenger
    picture: 111387
  body: "Are you running the latest MacOS? If not perhaps one of the installers added
    something for a newer version.\r\n\r\nAlso may want to deactivate any fonts you've
    recently turned on in case there's some glitch in one."
  created: '2007-10-02 03:23:10'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "On the upside, if this is a system issue, the Apple \u201Cgeniuses\u201D
    probably know a fix. Let me know if you find one\u2014I still have my old G4 Powerbook
    that this happened to sitting on my desk in hopes that a burglar will steal that
    and not go poking around for the MacBook."
  created: '2007-10-02 03:35:16'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "The thing is, it was working for him before. So, I was thinking that the
    system was now in a state of temporary weirdness. Safe Boot is often recommended
    by Mac techs because it is an Apple-designed, safe, mechanism for resetting certain
    specific settings. My guess is that if you're already running 10.4.10, you'll
    be in a position where you might need to start swapping bigger things out to diagnose
    the problem--really stuff that's outside the scope of this type of forum. The
    fact that these are standard screen shots implies that the issue is software related.
    Apple's support forums might be a good bet because there may be people who see
    far, far more Mac issues than we do. With more eyeballs there's a better chance
    someone has seen this before. \r\n\r\nIf it were me, I would probably also try
    resetting system caches using a free utility called OnyX. I've never known <a
    href=\"http://www.apple.com/downloads/macosx/system_disk_utilities/onyx.html\">OnyX</a>
    to cause any problems, but there are lots of options to do goofy things. \r\n\r\n\r\nI
    also obsessively back up my hard drive with a free cloning utility called Carbon
    Copy Cloner. It creates completely bootable backup partitions. That would be handy
    in a case like this because one could boot a recent backup and test to see if
    the problem occurred. I recently survived a hard drive failure on my laptop without
    losing any data.  My backup disk was a month old, but my email was still on the
    server and my other backup files had copies as well. \r\n\r\nI guess my final
    comment on this is... yeah, it's weird. Gremlins maybe?"
  created: '2007-10-02 03:41:49'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "shut down your computer;   Restart & hold  down the keys : Command- Option-P-R
    -- release the keys with the 3rd 'bongs'. Open Display ( System Preferences) --
    change the resolution, and go back to your current resolution setting. Close System
    Preferences, and rebot.\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-02 04:04:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "David,\r\nIt didn't work.\r\nAlso, prior to that, I installed fresh system
    on a seperate hard drive and booted from it, no change! Even the System DVD had
    the funky mouse problem! Yikes!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-10-02 04:46:52'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Chris, that sounds weird! \r\nI suppose you've done the usual, Utilities/Disk
    Utilities/Repair Disk Permissions? I also use a little application called MacJanitor.
    I use these two on regular basis, and after all installations. "
  created: '2007-10-02 06:43:36'
- author:
    name: Pause
    picture: 112620
  body: "If I had to guess, I'd say the video card's dead (possibly its memory) or
    overheating. Best bet would be to run the Apple Hardware Test from the OS DVD
    that came with the G5:\r\nhttp://www.thexlab.com/faqs/aht.html\r\n\r\nRun the
    extended test. This may or may not be able to diagnose a bad video card \u2013
    it may appear to function correctly to the computer, but produce a garbled visual
    output \u2013 but it should rule out other things, such as bad system memory (though
    you'd most likely be getting kernel panics with bad memory).\r\n\r\nAssuming that
    comes up fine, it's the graphics card. If memory serves me correctly, the G5's
    had an Nvidia FX5200 64MB dual DVI. Here's a guide for swapping out the card (it's
    really easy):\r\nhttp://manuals.info.apple.com/en/PMG5_AGP:PCI_Card_DIY.pdf\r\n\r\nBefore
    you go out and buy a replacement, try this: switch off the G5 at the plug (but
    leave it plugged in so it's earthed) open up the case, take out the graphics card
    and <em>use an air duster to thoroughly clean out its heatsink</em>. Put it back
    in, boot up and check to see if the corruption's gone. Frequently the heatsinks
    clog up after a couple of years under a desk, making the card overheat and causing
    this sort of visual corruption. Give the rest of the G5 case a good blast of air
    while you have it open, too.  Oh, and make sure to keep the air duster vertical,
    you don't want to spray freezing propellant everywhere ;) (Though it shouldn't
    be harmful.)\r\n\r\nIf you do have to replace the graphics card, you can use a
    good few different models as long as OS X has the drivers for them, but it'd probably
    be easiest to use the same make and model again. You should be able to pick up
    a cheap retail FX5200 128MB dual DVI (non\u2013Mac\u2013specific) for around $50
    at the most.\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-02 12:52:14'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Wow! I was going to say it's the graphics card, toss it, (financially, once
    I start loosening screws, I'm screwed).\r\nBut on the bright side, you can now
    say your computer runs like a nylon stocking.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-10-02 13:00:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL! Well, David, at least I got a good laugh out of it to ease my pain :-)\r\nA
    nylon stocking sure beats the Sing-Sing metaphor I have been using and anything
    else, bar none.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-10-02 15:10:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mili,\r\nI ran all the utilities from Apple plus TechTool before. Everything
    came up fine on the hardware, drive, and softyware tests.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-10-02 15:16:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Stef,\r\nI'll try your dust-bunny technique and hope it works.\r\n\r\nThe
    card is the OEM version (the high-end option card at the time) of the ATI 9800:\r\n\r\nATI
    Radeon 9800 Pro:\r\n\r\n  Chipset Model:\tATY,R350\r\n  Type:\tDisplay\r\n  Bus:\tAGP\r\n
    \ Slot:\tSLOT-1\r\n  VRAM (Total):\t128 MB\r\n  Vendor:\tATI (0x1002)\r\n  Device
    ID:\t0x4e48\r\n  Revision ID:\t0x0000\r\n  ROM Revision:\t113-A14401-117\r\n  Displays:\r\nApple
    Cinema HD Display:\r\n  Display Type:\tLCD\r\n  Resolution:\t1920 x 1200\r\n  Depth:\t32-bit
    Color\r\n  Core Image:\tSupported\r\n  Main Display:\tYes\r\n  Mirror:\tOff\r\n
    \ Online:\tYes\r\n\r\nThanks for all your help, everyone!\r\n\r\n  \r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-10-02 15:21:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Well, I disemboweled my Mac and there certainly was dust in there. I cleaned
    it all out and re-seated the card. There was a moment of great hope when I booted
    but it was quickly dashed when the problem was so obviously still there :-(\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-10-02 16:44:03'
- author:
    name: Pause
    picture: 112620
  body: "Boo :( \r\n\r\nThe graphics card's chip is probably toasted then, I'm afraid
    you'll have to replace it. Looking into this a little, it seems that you DO need
    to get a Mac\u2013specific one otherwise it won't work, which is a shame as the
    PC equivalents are much, much cheaper for what is basically the same card but
    flashed with a different firmware.\r\n\r\nA quick trawl of eBay turns up the following:\r\nhttp://computers.search.ebay.com/9800_Apple-Macintosh-Computers_W0QQ_trksidZm37QQcatrefZC12QQfromZR40QQsacatZ4599\r\n\r\nIncluding
    a card that exhibits the same problem as yours (looks like they tried replacing
    the fan but it didn't help):\r\nhttp://cgi.ebay.com/ATI-9800-PRO-128mb-AGP-Mac-OEM-Showing-Artifacts_W0QQitemZ150166527209QQihZ005QQcategoryZ25449QQssPageNameZWDVWQQrdZ1QQcmdZViewItem"
  created: '2007-10-02 17:19:33'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: That definitely looks like a problem with the graphics card. Judging from
    the nature of the graphics corruption, I'm guessing bad memory.
  created: '2007-10-02 18:48:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Stef,\r\nThat looks like compellig evidence to me. Thanks for showing me
    the \"smoking gun\" :-)\r\n\r\nLooks like another unexpected expense. Retirement
    is sure nice but living on half vyour income has some drawbacks :-(\r\n\r\nThanks,
    Spire, for the ditto.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-10-02 18:57:57'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Chris, \r\nyou have to start selling those lovely fonts of yours to pay for
    the computer parts, so you can design more fonts, so that..."
  created: '2007-10-02 21:10:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Mili! I hope to be releasing at least one before the end of October.
    \ I hope at least enough people buy it to pay for my video card :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS:
    I see a few typos in my previous post but I dare not fix them since the post will
    move to tha bottom and make no sense! Sorry, my typing and spelling suck."
  created: '2007-10-02 21:19:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I bought the bullett and ordered a new video card. The cheapest I could find
    that works on my system cost $150. There were some a little cheaper but they were
    refurbished and only had a 30 day warranty. I ended up getting a Radeon 9600 since
    other options were more money and unavailable.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-10-02 21:39:56'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "Barcode Blues :(\r\n\r\nSorry I can't help, I know how you feel though. My
    other laptop (name Roxanne) was eaten by a nasty virus. I couldn't access anything
    and lost all software. As it turned out I could pull the hard drive and rescue
    my works, wipe her clean and reload. But for a while there I was lost. \r\n\r\nHope
    you're back up and kick'n it soon enough!!"
  created: '2007-10-02 23:06:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Roxanne was cruel! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-10-02 23:21:26'
- author:
    name: Pause
    picture: 112620
  body: "Sorry I'm late getting back to this, Chris!  If money's tight and you don't
    mind a bit of work, try this:\r\nhttp://www.giantmike.com/G5_9800_fix.html\r\n\r\nBack
    when I did PC repair I noticed a lot of machines would have far, far too much
    thermal compound placed between the heatsink & CPU, which would subsequently gunk
    up, go off and actually make the heat transfer worse! I wouldn't bother with the
    fancy silver or ceramic stuff, though, tests have shown that it's no more effective
    than normal compound, it just costs ten times more and looks prettier in the packet.\r\n\r\nRemove
    the heatsink, clean off all the gunk, thoroughly clean the fan & heatsink (if
    the fan still even works?), apply a tiny amount of thermal paste (scrounge it
    off a geek friend) and reapply the heatsink. Leave the side of the case off if
    you can, so the heat doesn't build up and you can see if the graphics card's fan
    still works.\r\n\r\nIf it seems to make a difference, it may be worth shelling
    out for a new heatsink such as this:\r\nhttp://www.arctic-cooling.com/vga2.php?idx=125\r\n\r\n(Though
    I'm not sure that'll fit in the G5 case.)\r\n\r\nWorth a try on the off chance
    it fixes it? If it works you've wasted a bit of time but saved $150, assuming
    you can send the unopened card back."
  created: '2007-10-03 00:29:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Stef!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-10-03 03:47:57'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "When you return from your thing, can you update us on the problem? Has it
    been resolved, or are you kind of waiting for the video card to ship and try that?\r\n\r\nI
    am using the same hardware that you do, but in my previous life\u2014when I used
    to build PCs\u2014the video cards are probably the last thing to get malfunctioned.
    Granted, it was <em>Pentium III PCs</em>, so I digress.\r\n\r\nAnd your system
    actually displayed 256 colors. That definitely spells graphic card problem."
  created: '2007-10-05 08:48:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "A few hospital visits prevented an earlier reply but I can now confirm that
    t was my video card. I replaced it and all is well. Thanks to everyone for their
    help!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-10-18 20:41:23'
- author:
    name: Pause
    picture: 112620
  body: Good stuff, Chris, glad it's all sorted. Hope the angioplasty went well and
    the meds aren't too unpleasant!
  created: '2007-10-18 21:18:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, Stef!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-10-18 22:17:29'
- author:
    name: dood
  body: "Hi Chris,\r\nI am not much into fonts but I am facing this exact same issue.
    Googling led me to this thread. I too have an ATI 9800. I have had this video
    card for over 4 years now. It has never given me a problem till one fine day,
    last month when the bar codes started scrawling around the screen. I wonder if
    ATI had a bad batch of cards or something. (I have a PC.) Methinks: Something
    worth following up with ATI?\r\nThanks,\r\n-Dood"
  created: '2007-11-16 15:19:59'
- author:
    name: TomN-CA
    picture: 112736
  body: "@dood\r\nIt's not really ATI's fault per se - blame marginally faulty memory
    that finally degraded into failure. Without an electron microscope there's no
    way to tell just how it failed, but it did. \r\nHad it died within the warranty
    period or right out of the box that would be something else. There might be a
    recall of 9800's but more likely the fan is going bad or died long ago, leaving
    the card to overheat and produce glitches, that's the other possiblity next to
    memory failure. Open the PC and check if the fan can move. Bet you it's stuck
    solid, and you'll burn your fingers on the heatsink. :)"
  created: '2007-11-16 19:42:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My fan was working just fine. The diagnostics said the memory in the card
    had gone bad. After I replaced the card, all is back to normal and the crawling
    barcodes have gone. I think you might have to replace your card as well, Dood.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-11-16 20:16:03'
- author:
    name: dood
  body: The fan seems to fine. It must be the same memory bug. I am hunting around
    for a reasonable replacement. Thanks Tom and Chris.
  created: '2007-11-17 18:43:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Good luck with the \"reasonable\" part! I hope you do better than I did.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-11-17 20:06:03'
- author:
    name: Devodoc
    picture: 114128
  body: "Hi dezcom...came across your posting on Google trying to fix my monitor problem....your
    screen shot is exactly what my G5/23\" CD is doing. I replaced the video card
    (figured it was overheating and cleaned alot of soot etc. out) Replaced with Radeon
    XT800 (256) and seemed to work fine......for 20 minutes...now same problem!!!
    Aaaarrrggghh!!! $300+ for a new video card and it is different. Any other ideas?
    Have you had the problem again after your new video card?? Relation to Leopard
    perhaps?? Any help appreciated.\r\n\r\nDavid\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-30 20:51:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hi David,\r\nLuckily, my problem never returned after replacing my video
    card. I have yet to upgrade to Leopard. Perhaps your new video card is under warranty?
    Check with the dealer who supplied it. Here is hoping for a permanent and cheap
    cure for you!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-30 21:08:45'
- author:
    name: Devodoc
    picture: 114128
  body: "Well, I cannot figure it out..... if I put a brand new video card in, It
    seems logical it has to be something else. I just got it in the States this past
    week and now back in Europe they are hard to find and ATI service is non-existent.
    I am not sophisticated enough to understand why it would be the monitor, and the
    logic board or something scares me. Anyone w/similar problem you hear about especially
    software problem let me know! Thanks\r\n\r\nDavid\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-30 21:22:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "OK, If I hear, I will let you know.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-30 23:39:05'
- author:
    name: 3art
    picture: 114556
  body: "A few days ago I updated my Leopard to 10.5.2, rebooted the system, worked
    a little, turned my Mac to sleep and when I turned it back on I also had this
    problem.\r\n\r\nBy googling the ROM Revision (113-A14401-117) a finally found
    this thread. It is the only case that exactly describes my problem with the exact
    same hardware.\r\n\r\nDid Devodoc eventually solve the problem or did he give
    up after wrecking another card? I'm affraid to buy a new video card because of
    his case. Dezcom could resolve his problem by replacing his old card but he was
    still using Tiger. Did he eventually saw the problem return? So if anyone could
    tell me the conclusions of this \"video-card-destruction-epic\" I would be very
    glad.\r\n\r\nI would like to use this Power Mac G5 (first gen) for a little longer.
    And eventually when I buy a MacBook (Pro) it could serve for holding at least
    one copy off all my precious data. Or it might be just for a shorter term because
    I might end up with an all brand-new Mac Pro where my old hard drives can live
    their second live and leaving the old one hard drive'less.\r\n\r\nSo now I'm in
    the stage where I'm thinking of fixing my until-a-couple-of-days-ago-very-loyal
    Power Mac so I could hang on a little bit longer for buying a new Mac and eventually
    use the old one as a back-up beast or leave it as it is and go to the store to
    buy a MacBook (Pro) or Mac Pro. It all depends on the availability and price of
    AGP 8x video cards in Europe and the risk I could be taking because the new card
    good get the same problem."
  created: '2008-03-20 16:11:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Dezcom could resolve his problem by replacing his old card but he was still
    using Tiger. Did he eventually saw the problem return?\"\r\n\r\n3art, No, my problem
    has not returned since I got a new video card. I am still running Tiger and probably
    will untill the next bugfix comes out from Apple. I can't imagine that Leopard
    would be the issue anyway. It is hard to find a workable video card any more so
    I hope mine hangs in there for a couple more years. I wish you the best of luck
    solving your problem. Let me know how it all turns out.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-20 16:56:27'
- author:
    name: 3art
    picture: 114556
  body: I bought a new video card ATI Radeon 9600 and everything is back to normal.
    Let's hope it stays that way. If something does go wrong I'll add a new comment.
    Thanx for your help by posting this topic.
  created: '2008-04-03 17:40:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Glad you solved your problem!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-03 18:31:34'
- author:
    name: methodmano
  body: Where did you get the video card? I looked on newegg, but saw they're only
    good for Windows. How much are they? Thanks!
  created: '2008-05-05 18:04:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mine cost $150.  I ended up getting a Radeon 9600 at NewEgg.  I also had
    to by a converter box for the cable from the Apple store. That was another hundred!\r\n\r\n.ChrisL"
  created: '2008-05-05 18:47:18'
- author:
    name: Dom S
  body: "I have exactly the same problem (and computer) that ChrisL had at the start
    of this thread.\r\n\r\nRunning the Apple Hardware diagnostic revealed the error
    code 2 ATI/1/4: 113-A14401-117 with the video RAM.\r\n\r\nChris - I am planning
    to buy the 9600 replacement board tomorrow.  What is the \"converter box\" for
    the cable?  \r\n\r\nMany thanks\r\n\r\nDom"
  created: '2008-05-26 04:51:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It converts to a DVI end on the plug rom the monitor to the card. It is an
    Applestore product and not commonly found anymore. It is about a 5\" square white
    plastic box with in and out cables.\r\nADC-to-DVI converter, as I wanted to keep
    using my 23\" Cinema Display\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-05-26 18:11:17'
- author:
    name: Dom S
  body: "Thank you very much.  I went through the same process as you did:\r\n\r\n1.
    Ran a Apple Hardware Diagnostic check from the Startup disk - hold down the Options
    key, Select Hardware Diagnostic and then select Extended. This confirmed that
    it was the Graphics board (Video (RAM)) and not the Logic board (contrary to the
    view of Apple and TechServe - both of whom wanted me to bring the G5 in for their
    diagnostic ... $150 +)\r\n2. Purchased the new board (from B&H Photo):\r\nhttp://ati.amd.com/products/Radeon9600/Radeon9600propcmac/index.html\r\n3.
    Installed the new board - 5 minutes - remove one screw - carefully remove cooked
    9800 board - install new board - replace screw.\r\n4. Install new 9600 software
    (which the manufacturers suggest you do first) - it automatically overwrites the
    necessary 9800 files.\r\n5. Purchase and connect the ADC-to-DVI converter.\r\n6.
    Reboot\r\n\r\nNormal serve resumed.\r\n\r\nChrisL thank you again for this page
    - took me some time to find it but my problem is now solved.\r\n\r\nBTW - the
    ATI service support is about as useful as a chocolate fire guard.\r\n\r\nBest\r\n\r\nDom\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-27 15:38:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"the ATI service support is about as useful as a chocolate fire guard\"\r\n\r\nLOL!!!
    The chocolate is a better deal, too, at least it can be eaten :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-05-27 16:49:57'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: Chris, I am glad that you solved this one :-) Salud.
  created: '2008-05-27 19:09:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Grazie Andre! I had help from my friends :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-05-28 00:17:14'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: I did not say anything cause the only problems I have had with macs are related
    to "loss of the hard drive". Three or for times... I have lost some art work and
    a slab serif I did work on for 3 months... After that I waked up to the need of
    a good external hd ;;;-) or two.
  created: '2008-05-29 13:28:51'
- author:
    name: jcipin
  body: Just last night the ATI 9800 Pro Mac Special Edition in my G5 started exhibiting
    the same symptoms that Chris saw last October. A brief Google search led me to
    this thread. When I scrolled down and saw a couple of references to the error
    messages I ran the Apple Hardware Test and got a nearly identical error message.
    I've put in the 9600 that came with the G5 and it works fine. I also called ATI
    as my dead card is about 2 weeks out of warranty. I scanned my original invoice,
    e-mailed it while we were still on the phone and it looks like they're going to
    help me out. I wasn't even going to bother contacting them. I had started looking
    around last night for prices on a replacement. We'll see what happens. Anyway,
    thanks everyone for the helpful info.
  created: '2008-06-11 18:43:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Glad to hear that ATI is helping you out!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-06-11 20:27:57'
- author:
    name: guy3po
  body: "Have the exact same barcode shade problem on my imac g5 2.0Ghz.\r\nStrange
    thing is that the problem went completely away for 1 day but then came back.\r\nThe
    hardware test indeed shows 2ATI /1/4:113-xxxxx-117, but how can the problem go
    away then sometimes ?\r\n\r\nIs this really a hardware problem with the ATI.  Since
    the ATI is fixed on the logic board, I'm looking at a EUR 700 repair since my
    imac is out of warranty.  Help anyone ;-| \r\n "
  created: '2008-06-12 17:20:31'
- author:
    name: kylie83
  body: "Hi Chris,\r\nI'm glad you could resolve your video issue by replacing the
    graphics card. From you're screen shots I can tell I have the exact same issue.
    Does anyone know if it's possible to replace this graphics card chip on an iMac
    G5? Im presuming it's soldered on to the logic board thus it's impossible to replace?
    \r\n\r\nHopeful\r\nKylie"
  created: '2010-07-04 04:36:28'
date: '2007-10-01 23:44:08'
node_type: forum
title: Help! Weird Screen! being attacked by barcode hash marks!

---
