---
author:
  name: lindsaydurango
  picture: 112554
body: "Hey all. I have a philosophical question about design. Apologies in advance
  if it's not typographical enough, but I've always like the discussions you get into
  and appreciate your opinions.\r\n\r\nAs a bit of background, I'm a designer who
  got to be a designer after several years as a newspaper copy editor. Once I moved
  to newspaper design, I freaking loved it. I moved cities this year and when I got
  a new job, I shifted from newspapers to a small company that does marketing-ish
  design work (brochures, letterhead, business cards, logos).\r\n\r\nI've always set
  my sights on improvement and pushing myself, no matter what I'm doing. Recently,
  I've felt frustrated that my design work hasn't skyrocketed; that my creativity
  doesn't poor out of me.\r\n\r\nThen I realized why, maybe, that is:\r\n\r\nI'm not
  a design talent. I'm skilled at design. I know how to make things work and look
  good, but I'm not highly original.\r\n\r\nSo the question is, though talent can't
  be taught, can skill be tweaked to a level of excellence? If I wanted to, say, strike
  out on my own to do work similar to what I do now, is my skill enough to make it
  last?"
comments:
- author:
    name: seventy7
    picture: 111185
  body: "I'd say part of it depends on the types of clients and industries with which
    you seek to work. Don't be intimidated by rock star talent. What matters is developing
    visual sophistication. To me this includes watching and understanding a variety
    cultural shifts and movements as well as delving into other areas of visual arts
    and design\u2014architecture, illustration, photography, film, animation, typography
    and on.... And of course it helps to read books. \r\n\r\n(I don't do nearly enough
    of any of this)"
  created: '2007-10-08 19:25:55'
- author:
    name: paul_romaine
    picture: 110290
  body: "Lindsay: Speaking from experience.... There is a school of thought in personnel/HR
    that people have innate \"aptitudes\"--for example, an aptitude for abstract thought
    & facility with words, an aptitude for flat (2-dimensional) design, an aptitude
    for 3-dimensional design, good hand-eye coordination. The Johnson O'Connor Foundation,
    in particular, has designed tests for evaluating these aptitudes--from assembling
    a \"wiggly block\" puzzle [3-dimensional problem solving], to picking up steel
    pegs with a tweezer [manual dexterity], to drawing some x,y, z coordinates that
    have been flashed briefly on a screen. They created these tests originally to
    find the best people to work in factory positions, and then expanded the tests
    to determine better fits in offices and such. (It's very much of a time when people
    joined a multinational corporation and moved around within divisions.) JOF is
    now independent of any particular company, and their findings are not accepted
    in some HR circles, but I personally have found them helpful. In NYC, a lot of
    rich kids are sent to JOF for their battery of tests.\r\n\r\nThis testing is quite
    distinct from the widely administered Meyers-Briggs personality tests. The overlap
    might be: what is easier for you to do and is more fulfilling tends to be what
    you have an aptitude for.\r\n\r\nI know that I'm not answering your question as
    posed, but there you go. I suspect the real question is whether you can run your
    own business: i.e., run your own office and accounting, meet with clients, manage
    expectations, meet deadlines without excuses, and write a coherent business plan.
    \r\n\r\n-Paul"
  created: '2007-10-08 19:26:21'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "Talent is largely a myth applied to people who are skilled, fortunate, and
    persistent. People have aptitudes, but anyone can learn to do something if they
    really want to devote the time and effort to it. The trouble is that we all have
    only so much time and effort to give.\r\n\r\nI think the distinction you really
    mean to make when you speak of \"talent and skill\" is between art and craft,
    concept and execution. Creativity is a skill also, and you can be taught to be
    creative if you want to learn. But you'll have to decide if it's worth it to you,
    because technical skill is far more valuable and you can get by quite easily with
    it alone. A lot of people wait until their other skills have made them extremely
    successful and <em>then</em> learn to have original ideas because they have more
    freedom to do so."
  created: '2007-10-08 19:43:30'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>Talent is largely a myth applied to people who are skilled, fortunate,
    and persistent.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think there is a proclivity for certain abilities
    that is related to how the brain is wired. I can't even conceive of things that
    certain people do. Whether it be dance, music, art, or even things like mathematics,
    some people just have a genius for it that others couldn't attain to even if they
    were able to devote their lives to it."
  created: '2007-10-08 19:59:33'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: I know, it's a bit of a casted type but check out Mat 25:14-30.
  created: '2007-10-08 20:21:09'
- author:
    name: lindsaydurango
    picture: 112554
  body: "I'm loving this; let's get psycho-social on this mess (one of my \"talents\"
    is [over]analysis of data that are seemingly subjective facets of life).\r\n\r\nI
    will definitely have to pursue the aptitudes, if only to feed my overanalytical
    side.\r\n\r\nAnd I feel that, with proper research, paul_romaine, I could be really
    good on the business side. Because that's just numbers, right?\r\n\r\nAnd what
    I mean to say by that is, I feel perfectly good at my ability to absorb any number
    of facts on the number/business side of things. But absorbing the more artful
    side? I get sensitive, overwhelmed, concerned.\r\n\r\nWhich pushes the question
    of what makes someone feel confident in one area over another. I can't touch artiness.
    But reading about practice, observation, precision over years of doing those artful
    things makes it much more approachable. And I actually feel like, OK, I'll be
    just fine.\r\n\r\nSo thanks. And I'd be interested to hear more opinions on this
    if they're out there.\r\n\r\n(I'll try not to get too philosophical on y'all.
    I feel it coming, though :)"
  created: '2007-10-08 20:58:50'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I think that it was Mies Van Der Rohe who said \u201CI don\u2019t believe
    in talent, I believe in work.\u201D\r\n\r\nVery few individuals have talent that
    just pours out; it seems to me that those who do are usually at least a little
    crazy and burn out on drugs, booze, and other such nonsense. Successful creative
    types churn out a whole lot of mediocre stuff that either gets forgotten about
    or thrown away. Or maybe they\u2019re at a big firm where a dozen designers and
    a small host of production staff attack problems in teams, tweaking every weak
    spot over a period of months. But it\u2019s rare to pull off amazing stuff consistently
    on your own.\r\n\r\nMaybe your work is just stagnating and you need to make a
    change in your life. Creativity is largely the directed output of all the stuff
    that goes into ones subconscious mind and gets churned around, it could be that
    you just need to start putting different stuff in. This could be as small as going
    to the movies more often or as big as moving to another country. But it\u2019s
    worth a shot."
  created: '2007-10-08 21:06:41'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~pausch/
  created: '2007-10-08 22:47:57'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "\"I don\u2019t believe in talent, I believe in work.\u201D \r\nThat only
    can say a person, who is talented. ;)\r\n\r\nBtw. in german \"Talent\" (talent)
    is used the same way as \"Neigung/Begabung\" (aptitude)\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-08 23:12:30'
- author:
    name: lindsaydurango
    picture: 112554
  body: "@poms\r\nThat means I'm talented as heck, 'cause I'm silly with aptitude
    :) (Not short on humility, either).\r\n\r\n@alessandro\r\nI'm 15 minutes into
    the video of Pausch's lecture and, after my dinner, will be scrambling to finish
    it. Inspiring stuff.\r\n\r\n@James\r\nI think change could be a key. My new job
    isn't what I was expecting. The people I work with are very nice, but our tastes
    don't mesh. I guess what I'm saying is I don't feel particularly inspired or challenged
    by the design atmosphere I'm in (I'm learning a lot of very valuable information
    about production, though).\r\n\r\nI can't quite change my environment, but I can
    change which environment I look to for inspiration. I've tended to put more stock
    in the learning I get from structured environments, like class or the workplace;
    I just need to get over it and open magazines, go to web sites and suck everything
    up.\r\n\r\nThings are bubbling ..."
  created: '2007-10-08 23:40:40'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Lindsay,\r\n\r\nIn New York in the old days, we would say you went through
    an apprentice program. You learned how to place the graphics and type on a page
    layout - so it is readable - not cluttered or distracting to the eye. Your apprenticeship
    ended when you were moved into the new position.\r\n\r\nWhat they also taught
    you was how to design in a production manner. Though not exciting to a designer
    - very competent and appreciated by the printer. \r\n\r\nPlease remember that
    even the best art directors in New York, still took their time to look at \"greeting
    cards\" to get inspiration for their upcoming projects...\r\n\r\nCongratulations
    on your new job and home. Hope you are happy and well."
  created: '2007-10-09 10:31:56'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 'I know several successful designers (including a creative director of a major
    publisher) who got where they are through diligent effort, not through innate
    gifts. '
  created: '2007-10-09 14:15:48'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "I tend to agree with most of the posters but want to take it a step further
    to try to consolidate these thoughts . . .\r\n\r\nTalent is an editorial on skill
    and it is never self realized but rather assigned by a 3rd party . . .\r\n\r\nTake
    it with a grain of salt . . . It's like being told you have amazing earlobes .
    . . The truth is you have nothing but genetics to thank for your great earlobes
    and no talent was required to make  them great but if a third party says it's
    so, does that give the claim more credibility?\r\n\r\nAt the end of the day, study,
    practice, willingness to be open to learn, and dilligence to any craft will yield
    unparalleled skill which may result in accolades of talent but striving for talent
    itself is self-indulgent by these standards . . .\r\n\r\nStuart :D"
  created: '2007-10-09 15:25:22'
- author:
    name: paul_romaine
    picture: 110290
  body: 'Lindsay: Well, speaking as someone who is NOT in design but works as independent
    contractor, there''s a lot more to business than numbers. I''d say psychology,
    project management, communication skills, and integrity all apply. It took me
    a few years to realize that.'
  created: '2007-10-09 16:15:31'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "@ Stuart\r\nNo, no, no (hehe)\r\nFirst is the so called \"talent\", then
    the \"trail and error\" social thingi and the true work. Happy Neo Darwinism :)
    Btw. I'm a big fan of the propagandist qualities of Richard Dawkins.\r\nIf Mies
    van der Rohe said this* sentence; then it was a polemic statement against the
    \"genius artist thing\" which the media was on heavily at that time. \r\nEngineering,
    industrial rationalism were the real hip and sexy things in Europe, until the
    dark elements won that war for nearly 12 years \u2026 \r\n\r\n\"Kunst ist sch\xF6n
    und macht viel Arbeit\" said Karl Valentin\r\n\"Art is beautiful and prepares
    a lot of work\" is my poor translation of this kind of dadaesk truth. Which is
    much better communicated than (*) \r\n\r\n* \u201CI don\u2019t believe in talent,
    I believe in work.\u201D\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-09 17:26:01'
- author:
    name: lindsaydurango
    picture: 112554
  body: "When reporters/photographers/designers retired from the newspaper, we gave
    them really great send-offs. Among all the stories told about that journalist,
    the jokes about where they were going and well-wishes, there was inevitably a
    timeline of that journalist's career.\r\n\r\nAnd you know what? I always, always
    forget just how many hard jobs each of those people had; and how long they'd spent
    in the beginning of their careers doing gritty work, building up to the fine job
    everyone was gathered to honor.\r\n\r\nI guess a lot of my frustration is really
    just impatience (now that I'm getting a pretty good sense that I can build my
    skills into something like talent).\r\n\r\nAnd Paul, thanks for the insight into
    business. I hadn't given it as much thought as I  should. Glad you caught me before
    I shot out of the gate."
  created: '2007-10-09 17:35:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I believe a good memory can be quite useful.
  created: '2007-10-09 19:37:38'
- author:
    name: lindsaydurango
    picture: 112554
  body: Care to elaborate? Or shall I just start memorizing everything, simple as
    that? :)
  created: '2007-10-09 19:43:01'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "<cite> I believe a good memory can be quite useful. </cite>\r\n\r\nI'm totally
    with you on this and I've suspected as much for a little while. I'm a youngish
    guy but for whatever reason; bad work habits, lack of good systems, whatever I'm
    finding my memory is getting really bad generally and I feel like it affects my
    ability to design well. Often I'll sit down to brainstorm and I feel like I'm
    starting, not just the current project, but everything from a blank slate.\r\n\r\nSurely
    great design is an ability to apply the theory you've gathered about how to communicate
    visually. This includes an incredible amount of detail, stylistic and technical.
    I guess you could say skill = good tools and memory = raw resource, without memory
    you're sunk, with a bad memory you're struggling. I realise this is a potential
    hijack, but if people have tips for how they go about retaining information, at
    least I would be grateful.\r\n\r\n--N"
  created: '2007-10-10 01:19:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "If you're blessed with a good memory, it can make life a lot easier. \r\nIt's
    a talent, like having an eye for colour or an ear for pitch.\r\nIt's not like
    being smart, but it helps, and can create that illusion.\r\nYou can train it,
    but another approach is to create a memory-friendly working environment. (On the
    principle that mind is ecologically immanent.) For me, that's rather messy, but
    how can you find things when they're tidied away?\r\n\r\nOswald Cooper used to
    read the paper every morning in his studio, then lay it down on top of yesterday's
    paper--with all correspondence and documents for that day sandwiched between.
    A filing system."
  created: '2007-10-10 04:37:52'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "<em>So the question is, though talent can\u2019t be taught, can skill be
    tweaked to a level of excellence?</em> \r\n\r\nSure, why not? But what is 'excellence'
    anyways? Do you mean to 'excel' - as in, to go beyond mediocrity?\r\n\r\n<em>If
    I wanted to, say, strike out on my own to do work similar to what I do now, is
    my skill enough to make it last?</em>\r\n\r\nCan't answer that one - don't know
    where you're at.\r\n\r\nlindsaydurango, there's no timeline for talent. It shows
    - when it shows. Talent is not the domain of youth. And creativity does not =
    talent. Creativity is an innate force, which manifests itself as ideas. Talent
    forms/shapes those ideas into/with a clear vernacular - a well articulated voice.
    Each element well pronounced and in harmony with the whole. Ha, including 'the
    details'. God is in the details - isn't he/it?\r\n \r\nI'm beginning to babble."
  created: '2007-10-10 06:28:02'
- author:
    name: lindsaydurango
    picture: 112554
  body: "@Nick S.\r\nThat rings true. I've started to tape good pieces on the wall
    opposite me with this idea that they will seep deep enough into my subconscious
    to come of something later.\r\n\r\n@Nicholas and Hiroshige\r\nPlease babble and
    hijack. The best ideas I've had, whether for work or to feed my general philosophical
    theorizing, have come through wondering thoughts and bouncing off of other people's
    ideas.\r\n\r\nHiroshige, on top of my impatience, I think I want so badly to apply
    timelines (same reason I collect philosophical theories); I just need some quantifiable,
    pick-apartable explanation for how things do and will work. (There was a while
    I was thinking about studying psychology, probably because I thought I could find
    an answer for everything).\r\n\r\nTime to let go. Good lesson, in general. And
    to bring it back around to talent/skill/creativity, I have a feeling this need
    for a timeline (and similar things) is tying me down. How, exactly, are you supposed
    to be fully creative if you're not letting the moment reveal itself?\r\n\r\n(Who's
    babbling now?)"
  created: '2007-10-10 13:20:59'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "John Maeda:\r\n\"What are the fundamental skills of a designer?\"\r\n\r\nPaul
    Rand:\r\n\"The fundamental skill is talent. Talent is a rare commodity. It's all
    intuition. And you can't teach intuition.\"\r\n\r\nhttp://acg.media.mit.edu/events/rand/ideamag.html\r\n\r\nMore
    on intuition and talent:\r\nhttp://icsid.org/education/education/main/articles183.htm"
  created: '2007-10-10 17:30:50'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "All well and good if you're Paul Rand.\r\n\r\nBut for the rest of us... no,
    we can't all be Sagmeisters and Schers. But you can learn how to design well,
    and not every job calls for groundbreaking design skills.\r\n\r\nAnother major
    asset is to bone up on your typesetting/editorial skills. Everyone values a designer
    who has a very good handle on type."
  created: '2007-10-10 18:31:07'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I think groundbreaking is generally subjective anyway. It is great to please
    your peers and be acknowledged in that way, but even more satisfying, for me anyway,
    to excite a client with an execution. '
  created: '2007-10-10 18:44:46'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: "<em>\u201CThe fundamental skill is talent. Talent is a rare commodity. It\u2019s
    all intuition. And you can\u2019t teach intuition.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nIt may be
    that intuition cannot be taught (at least not directly), but I'm certain it can
    be learned, or at least acquired.  Intuition is an epiphenomenon of [the right
    kind of] experience, and <em>anybody</em> can gain experience.  The more you master
    the tools of your trade, the more you analyze and respond to the work of others,
    the more you practice applying your skills and creativity in interesting new ways,
    the more you engage in honest self-critique and accept feedback from trusted sources,
    the more you hone your intuition.   It appears to be the case that in any given
    domain some people hone their intuition more efficiently than others, and for
    some people the effort required to achieve some desired result may be so monumental
    that it's either not possible or not practical.  But it would be a mistake to
    abandon an endeavor just because intuition is required and can't be taught.  Just
    because it can't be diagrammed on a chalk board or explained in a lecture doesn't
    mean it can't be obtained."
  created: '2007-10-10 19:21:48'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: "<em>It is great to please your peers and be acknowledged in that way, but
    even more satisfying, for me anyway, to excite a client with an execution.</em>\r\n\r\nhttp://www.istockphoto.com/file_closeup/?id=2806911&refnum=1431945\r\n\r\n(apologies
    to Miss Tiffany)"
  created: '2007-10-10 19:41:26'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I'm not sure I get the reference. Are you saying that a designer is going
    to be hanging themselves if they don't try to please their peers?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-10 20:17:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...to excite a client with an execution...\r\n...a designer is going
    to be hanging themselves...</em>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-10 21:39:40'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: No, it wasn't meant to say anything about pleasing peers.  The photo approximates
    the mental image that popped into my head as I read the phrase "to excite a client
    with an execution".  It represents one sort of execution a designer might present
    to a client :)  Not meant to be a reflection on you, just the imagery of a misread
    phrase.
  created: '2007-10-10 22:16:42'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Pfft. Thanks, Nick. ;^D
  created: '2007-10-10 23:14:45'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "<em>How, exactly, are you supposed to be fully creative if you\u2019re not
    letting the moment reveal itself?</em>\r\n\r\nFocus on what is being said. And
    then strip that down to it's bare essence. Some call it 'truth' [Whatever].  Play
    it from there. \r\n\r\nTalent can tell a client to f*ck off and Live another day.
    Skill must kiss ass. That's the main difference between Talent vs Skill. Skill
    knows well the art of compromise. Talent can't even spell compormize.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-12 06:57:18'
- author:
    name: hoolia_d
    picture: 112385
  body: "<cite>Skill knows well the art of compromise. Talent can\u2019t even spell
    compormize.</cite>\r\n\r\nvery well put. "
  created: '2007-10-12 16:37:05'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I think that is a dangerous way to put it. It is insulting to the skilled
    and it sheds very negative light on the talented. AND it separates them making
    it seem as if the talented can't possess skill and the skilled can't possess talent.
    Black and white definitions like that don't help anyone in life.\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-12 17:51:19'
- author:
    name: lindsaydurango
    picture: 112554
  body: "Well, what if it's true, simply within the context of a sliding scale?\r\n\r\nTwo
    ends of most any scale are opposite, but the elements measured by those scales
    fall somewhere between the two ends points.\r\n\r\nSo, talent isolates itself?
    But if it's tempered with skill, it'll all be good.\r\n\r\nNo?"
  created: '2007-10-12 17:55:49'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I've worked with some extremely talented designers (and photographers, illustrators,
    etc) who I will NEVER work with again because they  had a \"my way or the highway\"
    approach to design. They forget that they are serving a client. I had a designer
    who refused to take the running head off a chapter opener - which is editorially
    incorrect as it repeats the chapter title already on the page - because it would
    have compromised her design. We went back and forth, back and forth, until I finally
    got her to come up with a different design element to replace it. I never hired
    her again. She completely wasted my time - and was ironically sharing a studio
    with another very famous pain-in-the-a** designer who I would love to out here
    but discretion forbids it. \r\n\r\nThere is no shortage of talent out there, but
    if said talent doesn't come along with skill and resourcefulness - and cooperativeness
    - then it's wasted in this field."
  created: '2007-10-12 18:33:47'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "So talent and skill have to be on opposing ends? I guess I could see that
    but I've never thought of them as opposing. I've always seen them as two things
    which can be a part of a great whole. \r\n\r\nI think you need to add humility
    to your list Patty. "
  created: '2007-10-12 18:44:36'
- author:
    name: lindsaydurango
    picture: 112554
  body: "Let's bring some physics in. Let's forget about two-dimensional sliding scales.
    Instead of Point A and Point B creating a straight line, what if it is two ends
    of a curving path? Maybe spiral shaped; or a parabola; or twisted and crossed
    like those awareness ribbons.\r\n\r\nSo no, not opposite, and elements that exist
    on that scale are consequently more complex than being defined as \"more skilled,
    less talented\" or \"more talented, less skilled.\"\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nBut honestly,
    I think that the talent/skill/compromise discussion is bringing up interesting
    points about talent and skill, but perhaps is clinging too tightly to the vocabulary.\r\n\r\nThe
    observation at its root is that creative people who are better in business environments
    are able to compromise and work well with others.\r\n\r\nMaybe people silly with
    skill are used to finding solutions to problems (myself as an example: one of
    the things I really like about my job is finding the best and fastest way to format
    pages. Doesn't take much talent, but it's certainly a skill. And it makes me question
    every step I take. \"Is my approach the best approach, or is there one that's
    better?\")\r\n\r\nAnd now let's look at pure talent: I always think of it as an
    outpouring. \"Just get it on the page.\" The talent itself is not necessarily
    about process; more about the idea itself. And that's when you get a running head
    on a chapter opener that shouldn't be there.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nI still argue for
    that 3-dimensional sliding scale."
  created: '2007-10-12 19:26:29'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Tiff - I guess I'd have included humility as part of cooperativeness, or
    at least the willingness to work together towards a solution without your ego
    overwhelming the process. Or without getting way too attached to your initial
    ideas.\r\n\r\nYou can't be a successful designer without your ego absorbing some
    major blows.\r\n\r\nSo I guess having a thick skin is a valuable asset too."
  created: '2007-10-12 19:42:58'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Lindsay, I'd say being able to solve a problem quickly is a talent. \r\n\r\nPatty,
    yeah I can see that and agree. Cooperativeness does include humility. \r\n\r\nA
    question to those of you in school still or those who are teaching: Do you feel
    a good balance of skills being taught or is the focus on a great portfolio to
    the detriment of those not \"naturally\" talented?"
  created: '2007-10-12 19:49:46'
date: '2007-10-08 18:22:13'
title: Talent vs. Skill

---
