---
author:
  name: Stephen Coles
  picture: 128126
body: I was surprised to see <a href="http://www.textmatters.com/cgi-bin/atypi/news/newsindex.pl?id=159"
  target=_top>this notice</a> from the bukva:raz! chairman. Particularly because <a
  href="http://lalaiterie.free.fr/" target=_top>Janiszewski</a> seems to be an experienced
  designer with pretty good work at T26, Bitstream, PsyOps and ITC. Why enter a design
  derivative of Stone Sans to the competition? Are we missing some of the story?
comments:
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: ' Does anybody has a picture of Frothy? <BR>I am interested in comparing both
    designs. '
  created: '2002-10-28 13:26:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Here&#39;s a scan from the LCT book: <BR><A HREF="http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/frothy.gif"
    TARGET="_top">http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/frothy.gif</A> <BR> <BR>I have
    no comment on either the fact that it initially won an award nor that it was subsequently
    disqualified... <BR> <BR>But what I think would be interesting to learn is &#42;how&#42;
    it was disqualified, I mean the mechanics of it. I think somebody &#40;Devroye?&#41;
    should do some investigation, not least by getting Janiszewski&#39;s side of the
    story. I&#39;ll refrain from speculating on what actually happened here. <BR>
    <BR>hhp'
  created: '2002-10-28 16:04:23'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' Hello, <BR> <BR>I heard about the whole story of frothy a couple of weeks
    ago. I was really astonished and really really didn'
  created: '2002-10-28 18:06:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; Since these last six years I have tried to develop my own '
  created: '2002-10-28 20:40:17'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: ' I&#39;m going to make a lot of people angry here. I&#39;ve raised this point
    in other forums, and caused feeding frenzies among typographic moralists. <BR>
    <BR>What is so bad about working from someone elses&#39; work? Why are we so protective
    of our territory? Why is it OK to work from dead people&#39;s work? <BR> <BR>Type
    design is an iterative process that builds on and interperets other peoples&#39;
    work. Why slow the iterations to a minimum of 70 years? I have often modified
    other people&#39;s fonts for various projects. What is so villianous about making
    it into a font? The new font could be iterated in the same way, and the community
    would be enriched. <BR> <BR>In reality I know what the answer is. There are two
    motivations that are almost universal. Money and recognition. I am questioning
    the value of those motivations. <BR> <BR>I am proposing that the value of the
    aestetics, diversity and flavor in the community are more valuable. Why shouldn&#39;t
    there be 5000 variations of Helvetica, some wonderful and some awful? Why shouldn&#39;t
    type have individual flavor? <BR> <BR>I have been a fan folk music for a long
    time. The value of folk music &#40;real folk music, the stuff done by people the
    don&#39;t own copyrights&#41; is that it is shared. No one person is responsible
    for the flavor and the beauty. The songs are passed around, and everyone takes
    them and makes them their own. <BR> <BR>What if students everywhere were encouraged
    to take the oulines of type faces and modify them? It&#39;s true that the font
    landfills would pile up, but typographic flowers would rise from the compost and
    work their way into common usage, to then be recycled and grow new faces. <BR>
    <BR>Obviously, some faces have more value than others. Cheap copies are not valuable.
    Inteligent iteration is. The conversation here should be whether frothy has value,
    not whether it was derived from a living designers&#39; font. '
  created: '2002-11-22 18:19:59'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Nice post, Christian. I&#39;ve asked many of the same  <BR>questions - and
    received very few answers... <BR> <BR>See the topic at the <A HREF="http://designforum.aiga.org/content.cfm?ContentAlias=%5FMessageView%5F&amp;mid=%23%2DC6T%0A"
    TARGET="_top">AIGA forum</A>.
  created: '2002-11-22 18:36:11'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: ' For those who missed it, the third installment of the Parkinson/Downer interview
    at Phil&#39;s Fonts lends insight into the Janiszewski disqualification. <BR>
    <BR>Downer: <BR>&#62; I actually take enormous pride in tracking down offenders.
    Theft is unacceptable. I am firm in this belief. Yet, as unacceptable as font
    theft is, it is doubly unacceptable when it&#39;s committed by a person who knows
    better. Type designers know that font theft is reprehensible, so any type designer
    who steals from another stoops as low as a type designer can stoop. There is simply
    nobody lower to be found in the craft of type design. <BR> <BR>&#62;I don&#39;t
    know of a case in which a highly accomplished and widely-respected type designer
    has stolen a digital font from a colleague, but I know of several cases in which
    an inferior type designer, whose faces are only second-rate at best, has been
    in possession of fonts that were obtained illicitly. <BR> <BR>&#62;I do not regard
    type thieves as colleagues or brethren. They are not peers. They are parasites.
    <BR> <BR>the other parts of the interview are fascinating, too, with bonus insight
    into the world of water polo. <BR> <BR>bj :&#93; '
  created: '2002-11-22 18:38:56'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Christian -- <BR> <BR>For me there is a moral difference between work that
    is based on or inspired by another&#39;s and work which is built directly upon
    another&#39;s.  <BR> <BR>It&#39;s one thing to get a bunch of friends together
    and jam out a Pete Seeger tune, but it&#39;s another thing altogether to take
    a recording of Pete Seeger&#39;s, scrub out the vocal track, and lay your own
    over the accompaniment. And I don&#39;t just mean legally, copyright-wise. I mean
    creatively -- and perhaps even morally &#40;depending upon what you do with the
    subsequent recording&#41;. <BR> <BR>In the same way, it&#39;s one thing to create
    an alphabet design which is inspired by, or even based on, the general shapes
    of Stone Sans, for instance. But it&#39;s another thing altogether to open up
    the outlines and crank them through a filter or two, move a couple of points,
    or whatever. <BR> <BR>&#40;Don&#39;t get me wrong, I bear no ill-will toward Janiszewski;
    I accept his explanation and respect his apology. I still don&#39;t understand
    what the Bukva:raz jury was thinking, however, regardless of whether they recognized
    the origins or not.&#41; <BR> <BR>There are a lot of things that are shared in
    type design -- there are at least 26 of them, plus numerals, punctuation, etc.
    There&#39;s no copyright on the way letters are stressed, on how serifs are formed,
    on a single-story &#39;g&#39; or a two-story &#39;g&#39;. Those are the melodies
    -- now go play them your own way. Claude Garamond sang &#39;em one way, Baskerville
    sang &#39;em another, Matthew Carter sings &#39;em his own way. <BR> <BR>If you
    want to play a Pete Seeger tune, you look at the notes and you play them your
    way. Maybe you aspire to play like Pete Seeger so you listen real close to his
    recording, over and over, and you pick out the banjo solo for yourself until you
    feel like you got it -- fine. But Pete Seeger is Pete Seeger; who are you? Put
    yourself back into it. Make it your own. <BR> <BR>Don&#39;t take the Seeger recording,
    pass it through a midi converter, load it into your computer, and start tweaking
    it digitally, and then use the output to control your midi banjo or whatever.
    What&#39;s the point of that? <BR> <BR>So, if you&#39;re inspired by Carter&#39;s
    Miller, for instance, and you want to create your own Miller-inspired alphabet,
    then sit down and draw your own. Sure, look at Miller real close, over and over,
    until you think you got Miller in your blood. But then draw your own interpretation
    of the tune, put your whole self into it, make it your very own. What are your
    own thoughts about Scotch moderns? What do <I>you</I> think about how an &#39;a&#39;
    should look, how it should work? How do <I>you</I> think the leg of a modern &#39;R&#39;
    should be formed? <BR> <BR>Don&#39;t just scan in a specimen and autotrace it.
    Don&#39;t just open the font in Fog and start pushing points around. Where&#39;s
    that going to get you? <BR> <BR>Again, I&#39;m not really talking about mere legality,
    I&#39;m talking about true creativity.  <BR> <BR>There&#39;s a moral and creative
    difference between Copying and Interpreting. Sometimes the line between the two
    may seem hard to distinguish, but it&#39;s there; and you&#39;ve got to find it.
    True progress in any craft comes through reinterpreting, not copying. You&#39;ve
    got to modify the <I>idea</I> behind the thing, not the thing itself.  <BR> <BR>--
    K. <BR> <BR>P.S. When I say &#34;you,&#34; I don&#39;t necessarily mean you specifically,
    of course; I mean all of us in general.
  created: '2002-11-23 18:00:19'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: ' Christian, the altruism you suggest is worth further consideration but I
    don&#39;t think it pans out in a marketplace. <BR> <BR>If you strip away copyright
    protection or &#39;ownability&#39; you strip away the ability of a professional
    to make a living at the craft. And by taking away that ability you cut off the
    talent pool at the knees. I think that would be a drastic setback to the body
    of work available, much more than everybody guarding their work. <BR> <BR>&#40;Take
    that Karl Marx. Or take that Linux?&#41; <BR> <BR>I&#39;m not going to suggest
    you&#39;re off base Christian and don&#39;t let this detract from our friendship.
    I like that you&#39;re asking some of these questions. Indeed some of that altruism
    is the reason we pursue Typophile. I highly <BR>respect your work as very original
    and fresh. Much of your stuff has the stroke of classicism and even better, utility.
    Would you give it away freely in hopes that it would come back to you better than
    you left it? If so, try that experiment yourself, with your own work. <BR> <BR>But
    all the type designers I know who are making a living at it &#40;and, please,
    I&#39;m not one of them&#41; have a difficult enough time earning a living with
    the current meager protections in place. <BR> <BR>&#40;Finally, please don&#39;t
    misunderstand me. I&#39;m not suggesting type designers are solely motivated by
    money. If so, they wouldn&#39;t be in this field.&#41; '
  created: '2002-11-23 20:53:00'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: ' &#62;Cheap copies are not valuable. Inteligent iteration is. <BR> <BR>that&#39;s
    the essence of what christian is saying. i think. the difference between drawing
    replicas of an existing font with a pencil and drawing them with a computer are
    merely technological. one person&#39;s recreation or reinterpretation of a font
    can be as valuable and individual as the original. if carol twombly can &#34;revive&#34;
    an old face, why can&#39;t i &#34;revive&#34; hers without getting sued? i think
    people should get credit, money, and whatever else from the work they do, no matter
    what it is, but i also think some information should remain free. that little
    opinion still needs to be fleshed out, so don&#39;t ask me what it means. anyway,
    i think i understand what christian is saying, and i agree. i don&#39;t think
    he&#39;s talking about theft, like those guys who make those discount font discs
    for 12 dollars. i think he&#39;s talking about legit creativity and new ideas
    coming from old ones. remember that song that came out in 98 or 99... symphony
    of life or something. anyway, they had sampled the rolling stones&#39; ruby tuesday
    for the song. you could have fooled me. it sounded like a new song to me. on the
    other hand, puff daddy, or pee diddy or whatever, took a led zeppelin song and
    just went &#34;uh, uh&#34; over the top of it. the idea behind both songs is essentialy
    the same: take part of an old song and make a new one. the difference is that
    the good song made the element it&#39;s own, and the bad song&#39;s element happened
    to be the entire song &#40;man, puff daddy sucks&#41;. so while i agree that type
    designers have the right to profit from their work &#40;zuzana licko would be
    a billionaire if everyone came clean&#41;, i think the line that divides inspiration
    from imitation is too fine too draw. isn&#39;t mrs. eaves based on something?
    isn&#39;t helvetica? '
  created: '2002-11-24 03:36:07'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: ' and if i remember correctly, the stones made a ton of money from that song,
    the band that used the sample didn&#39;t. take that for what it&#39;s worth. &#40;what
    was that band? the verve or something like that?&#41; '
  created: '2002-11-24 03:38:23'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: '<I>&#62;difference between drawing replicas of an existing font with a pencil
    and drawing them with a computer are merely technological.</I> <BR> <BR>Yes, it
    is. The point is to not make replicas. Make something original. Maybe it&#39;s
    based on something that went before &#40;honestly, what isn&#39;t?&#41; but the
    goal is to make something new and different, not a replica. <BR> <BR><I>&#62;if
    carol twombly can &#34;revive&#34; an old face, why can&#39;t i &#34;revive&#34;
    hers without getting sued?</I> <BR> <BR>Twombly could revive the capitals from
    the Trajan column because they were essentially dead and didn&#39;t exist in any
    useable form. The typeface Trajan isn&#39;t the same thing as the stonecut letters
    from the column; they&#39;re <I>based</I> on those letterforms. Look closely:
    they&#39;re really not the same. They&#39;re her interpretation of those letterforms
    in a modern, digital idiom. You can&#39;t revive her typeface because it isn&#39;t
    dead. But you can make your own interpretation of the classic roman capitals.
    Designers have been interpreting those forms forever. Go ahead, look at the original
    inscriptional letters, look at Twombly&#39;s interpretation, look at Goudy&#39;s,
    look at Catich&#39;s. Then draw your own. You can&#39;t be sued for that.  <BR>
    <BR>Just don&#39;t open up the Trajan font in Fog and start from there. Because
    you can get sued for that. <BR> <BR><I>&#62;i think people should get credit,
    money, and whatever else from the work they do, no matter what it is, but i also
    think some information should remain free.</I> <BR> <BR>That is precisely the
    intention behind the idea of copyright. &#40;The implementation into laws is not
    always perfect, but the intention is sound.&#41; The point is to secure to a creator
    for a limited time the rights and opportunities to benefit from their hard work
    and creativity. And a key concept of copyright is that <B>ideas cannot be owned</B>,
    just the actual manifestation of ideas as things. <B>Ideas are free.</B> But creations
    aren&#39;t. At least not for a while. The duration is finite, though &#40;despite
    how Disney would like it otherwise&#41;. After a while even the thing becomes
    public domain -- the invention, the poem, the artwork, whatever. After the creator
    has had the opportunity to benefit from his creativity &#40;usually after he&#39;s
    dead and his kids are grown up -- that&#39;s where the 75 years comes from&#41;
    then we can do what we want with it, basically. <BR> <BR><I>&#62;i think he&#39;s
    talking about legit creativity and new ideas coming from old ones.</I> <BR> <BR>Hey,
    I&#39;m right with you guys on this. The problem with the current litigious climate
    is that everyone has become confused about what&#39;s okay and what isn&#39;t.
    There&#39;s nothing wrong with creating new ideas out of old ones &#40;or even
    yesterday&#39;s leftover ones&#41;. Just make sure you&#39;re building on ideas,
    not things. <BR> <BR>We all stand on the shoulders of giants; just don&#39;t cut
    them off at the knees to do it. <BR> <BR><I>&#62;i think the line that divides
    inspiration from imitation is too fine too draw.</I> <BR> <BR>It may be a fine
    line, it may even be a sketchy line, but it&#39;s a sad day when we don&#39;t
    bother to draw it. You have to keep looking for it. A lot of times, the difference
    is like that definition of pornography -- you know it when you see it. You&#39;ve
    got to be able to feel the difference between inspiration and imitation in your
    gut. And to do that, you have to keep recalibrating your moral compass. That&#39;s
    why I appreciate this conversation and the questioning. That&#39;s how we discover
    where the line is. <BR> <BR><I>&#62;isn&#39;t mrs. eaves based on something? isn&#39;t
    helvetica?</I> <BR> <BR>Mrs. Eaves is based on the idea of Baskerville. If you
    compare the two, the debt of inspiration is obvious. But it&#39;s equally obvious
    that Zuzana didn&#39;t copy or imitate Baskerville. She internalized the idea
    of Baskerville, she added her own ideas, she even contradicted Baskerville, and
    she came up with something that was rather unique -- despite the fact that she
    calls it a &#34;revival.&#34; And actually, she&#39;s right: a true revival isn&#39;t
    a copy, or even a translation &#40;which is what some so-called revivals are&#41;.
    A good <I>revival</I> actually breathes new life into an idea, brings something
    new to the table. <BR> <BR>So, if you find an idea that you like and you think
    you might be able to build on it, then go for it. But you should be sure to bring
    something new to the table. Otherwise you&#39;re not building, you&#39;re just
    rehashing. <BR> <BR>&#40;BTW, Helvetica was based on Akzidenz Grotesque. But I
    have no idea &#42;what&#42; Meidinger could have been thinking. ;-&#41; <BR> <BR>--
    K.'
  created: '2002-11-24 15:03:16'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: ' &#62;isn&#39;t mrs. eaves based on something? isn&#39;t helvetica? <BR>
    <BR>rhetorical question. <BR> <BR>i think we&#39;re all in basic agreement. straight
    up copying is for chickens. maybe the key thing is who profits from what. for
    example, if someone does some wacky thing with helvetica, maybe it should be given
    away rather than sold. that way no one is making money from another&#39;s work.
    <BR> <BR>i agree that we should draw the line, i just don&#39;t know who should
    be drawing it. <BR> <BR>didn&#39;t twombly also do a baskerville or caslon? i
    think it was caslon. trajan was definitely dead, but caslon? i&#39;m sure her
    caslon wasn&#39;t exactly the same as the original she worked from, but how original
    can it be and still be caslon? it seems like i&#39;m picking on her, but i&#39;m
    not. where did she draw the line? ms. twombly, if you&#39;re out there, clue me
    in. '
  created: '2002-11-24 16:15:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; zuzana licko would be a billionaire if everyone came clean <BR> <BR>Although
    I think Licko deserves a lot more cash then she&#39;s getting, this is a myth:
    if you were somehow able to prevent people from using illegal fonts, your sales
    would go up only modestly; most people would simply not use the stuff. <BR> <BR>&#62;
    You can&#39;t revive her typeface because it isn&#39;t dead. <BR> <BR>But isn&#39;t
    the requirement of death too limiting? I mean, is it healthy to encourage people
    to circle around their pray like vultures, waiting for them to keel over? <BR>
    <BR>&#62; A good revival actually breathes new life into an idea <BR> <BR>What
    a wonderful expression! <BR>But revivals on the high creative level of Mrs Eaves
    are extremely rare. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-11-24 20:18:44'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: '<I>&#62;But isn&#39;t the requirement of death too limiting?</I> <BR> <BR>I
    was being literal: you can&#39;t &#42;revive&#42; something that&#39;s not &#42;dead.&#42;
    That doesn&#39;t mean you can&#39;t develop an idea. And you don&#39;t have to
    wait for an idea to be dead to build on it. Just be sure to evolve it and don&#39;t
    just copy it or rehash it. If you&#39;re inspired by Trajan to take classic roman
    capitals to a whole new level, then great, go for it. But don&#39;t just redraw
    Trajan with a few superficial tweaks here or there and call it a &#34;revival.&#34;
    <BR> <BR><I>&#62;But revivals on the high creative level of Mrs Eaves are extremely
    rare.</I> <BR> <BR>Agreed. But there&#39;s nothing wrong with rarity. It keeps
    the bar set high.  <BR> <BR>-- K.'
  created: '2002-11-25 12:56:38'
- author:
    name: flow14
    picture: 110569
  body: Here are a few good links I found recently <BR>relating to copyright which
    fit into this discussion <BR>rather well.. <BR><A HREF="http://stacks.msnbc.com/news/594462.asp"
    TARGET="_blank"> Copyrights and Copywrongs</A> <BR> <BR>..which was found on this
    site.. <BR><A HREF="http://www.illegal-art.org" TARGET="_blank"> Illegal Art</A>
    <BR> an interesting exhibition that I would encourage <BR>everyone to look through.
  created: '2002-11-25 15:55:03'
- author:
    name: j_hisekaldma
  body: ' Illegal Art is nice. Especially the MP3s by Negativland and The Evolution
    Control Committee. Plunderphonics kick &#149;&#149;&#149;! '
  created: '2002-11-26 22:25:14'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' damn ! this little font experience from the time where computers were something
    to ban in the student life &#40;back to the 90&#39; !&#41;  makes people talk
    !!! '
  created: '2002-12-15 12:20:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' Yes, anything relating to ethics &#40;more than legality&#41; in type design
    garners a lot of accusation/self-defence, direct or via innuendo. Maybe that&#39;s
    because there isn&#39;t enough money in the field, and leveraging ethics would
    supposedly increase revenue? Not enough to justify the resultant ill feelings,
    I&#39;d say. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-12-15 17:36:32'
date: '2002-10-28 09:09:40'
node_type: forum
title: Janiszewski Disqualified

---
