---
author:
  name: aric
  picture: 113195
body: "This thread was inspired by the discussion on [[Do designers use left or right
  brain?|brain hemisphere dominance]].  Diagnosing brain hemisphere dominance is rather
  tricky, and society has associated some mythical properties with hemisphere dominance
  that have not been supported by science.  But one trait that's somewhat related
  to hemisphere dominance, and much easier to diagnose, is handedness.\r\n\r\nFor
  present purposes, I suggest we discuss handedness in terms of the Edinburgh Handedness
  Inventory.  It's not a perfect instrument (there isn't one for assessing handedness)--it
  has a bias toward mixed handedness.  But it's more widely available than any other
  common handedness diagnostic.  So if you're game, spend a moment at http://airto.bmap.ucla.edu/BMCweb/Consent/edinburgh.html
  and report your score.  And feel free to share thoughts, anecdotes, etc. about handedness.\r\n\r\nMy
  laterality quotient is -50.0.  I'm primarily a lefty, but there are some things
  I prefer to do with my right hand, especially throwing and tooth-brushing.  And
  most of the things on the Edinburgh list other than writing or drawing I generally
  (but not exclusively) do left-handed.\r\n\r\nLeft-handedness is in my genes.  My
  father is much more left-handed than me, my mother about as much.  I have two left-handed
  siblings; one is very left-handed and the other more like mom and me.  And I have
  five right-handed siblings who are all very right-handed as far as I know.  With
  five lefties and five righties, handedness was an important consideration, especially
  around the dinner table."
comments:
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "What a grat topic in its own way. In New York in the mid-1980s I started
    noticing that many of the designers I were left handed, including my dear departed
    friend, James R. Harris. I, like you, started wondering if the more creative people
    in the field were left handed - because they certainly were surfacing as such.\r\n\r\nI
    hope others contribute to this. I'd love to read more. Thank you."
  created: '2007-10-13 12:47:37'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "My laterality quotient is 100, according to that test. Yet I do certain things
    with my left hand, like for example, I usually drink with my left hand. But thats
    mainly for practical reasons, when I sit somewhere where the table is on my left,
    I pick and use things sitting on it with my left hand. Also behind the computer,
    when my right hand is occupied with the mouse, I do other things with left (obviously).
    So I guess that test is a bit too limited.\r\n\r\nEveryone of my close family
    (parents/brother) is right handed. One friend of mine is a lefty, which is probably
    the only left handed person I know.\r\nI think."
  created: '2007-10-13 13:35:09'
- author:
    name: karen_h
    picture: 113341
  body: "From the test, I'm 100% left-handed. But I already thought this was the case...my
    right-handed writing looks like chicken scratch, and often if I need something
    from my right pocket, I'll use my left hand.\r\n\r\nThanks for this article and
    the links.\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-13 16:23:18'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I'm right-handed but I hold my hand in a kind of a \"hook\" position when
    I write, which implies some effect of the right brain. My mother is a righty but
    both my father and brother are lefties which meant that as a kid I thought all
    boys were lefties. \r\n\r\nBut I used my left eye when I look through the camera
    back in the day when one actually looked through a viewfinder.\r\n\r\nThat test
    told me I'm 100% right handed but I already knew that. I did have a long-term
    boyfriend who was an extremely talented left-handed designer/artist.\r\n\r\nInterestingly
    because of an elbow injury I've had to force myself to do more things with my
    left hand - turning doorknobs, picking things up. It felt strange at first but
    it's pretty comfortable now."
  created: '2007-10-13 16:38:57'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "I think handedness is very overrated and I even doubt that it lies in our
    genes.\r\nPrefering one hand is just easier, because you have to train just one
    hand instead of two. If someone thinks to be \"very right-handed\" or \"very left-handed\"
    in my opinion this just means he/she hasn't tried very much to use the other.
    \r\n\r\nTake a piano player: To become a virtuosic player you need to train both
    your hand equally. The moves of your fingers are extremly subtle and difficult
    and require a lot of power and fine coordination of the muscles. \r\nBut if any
    piano player can use both his hands in such an elaborate way, this also means
    that everybody can use their \"weak\" hand for simple usage of household tools
    or a computer mouse. You just need to take the time to train your hand. \r\n\r\nI
    usually use my left hand, when it doesn't matter (spoon, tooth brush and so on),
    but whenever the right hand is more appropriate I use it, for example with the
    computer mouse. I think it is a very bad idea that left-handed people try to turn
    everything upside down. It's inevitable to use different scissors for the left
    hand, but it is stupid to ask for keyboards with a flipped layout or to play a
    guitar with the strings mounted in the wrong order. It makes everything even worse.\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-13 17:19:53'
- author:
    name: hoolia_d
    picture: 112385
  body: "-This subject's laterality quotient is: 66.7\r\nPlacing this subject in the
    2d right decile.-\r\n\r\nI personally have a lot of trouble remembering which
    friends are lefties and which aren't since I graduated high school because my
    only way of knowing is being around them while they're actually writing something.\r\n\r\naric-
    in regards to the the genetic left/right split: I've always thought that it is
    genetic, but kids are also so absorbent while growing up that I've also wondered
    whether or not they were lefties based on observation. Although I do have a lefty
    friend who was forced into being a righty in a private elementary school [not
    in the US], and he draws 90x better with his left hand than his right. \r\n\r\npatty-
    hand/elbow injuries really make you realize how important is to have control over
    both hands. I recently got attacked by a dog and I had damage to my middle nerve
    in my left hand, I couldn't use it for anything for 2 months and in that time
    my elbows aided me in doing A LOT of things, and I saw for the first time how
    dependent I was on my left hand even though I am a righty. Imagine xactoing with
    an elbow as your support... I looked pretty ridiculous.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-13 17:24:37'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>I think handedness is very overrated and I even doubt that it lies
    in our genes. Prefering one hand is just easier, because you have to train just
    one hand instead of two. If someone thinks to be \u201Cvery right-handed\u201D
    or \u201Cvery left-handed\u201D in my opinion this just means he/she hasn\u2019t
    tried very much to use the other.</cite>\r\n\r\nSure, you can learn to write with
    your \"wrong\" hand as injured people often do, but to say that we become right-
    or left-handed because it's \"just easier\" is ridiculous. Why, then, are there
    left-handed people at all? Have you ever watched a small child learn to throw
    a ball or start to draw? They always use the same hand.\r\n\r\nMy father, who
    is 76, is left handed. He does everything with his left hand, sports, etc. But
    when he was a child, the left-handedness was seen as wrong, evil (the Italian
    word for left is sinistra; you throw spilled salt over your left shoulder to ward
    off the devil, etc; and by contrast right=right) so he was forced to learn to
    write with his right hand. As soon as he was old enough he switched back to his
    left hand but his writing, on both sides, is atrocious. Now, I'm not sure he would
    have won awards for penmanship either way, but he would probably have legible
    handwriting now if he'd been allowed to learn to write with the hand that was
    natural for him."
  created: '2007-10-13 17:31:35'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<a href=\"http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=9A01E1D6103BF935A25756C0A9669C8B63\">Article
    from the New York Times on the subject.</a>\r\n\r\nSome factoids:\r\n\r\n*About
    90 percent of people are right-handed. Most of the rest are distinctly left-handed,
    though some are ambidextrous to one degree or another.\r\n\r\n*When both parents
    are right-handed, 92 percent of their children are. When one parent is left-handed,
    about 80 percent of the children are right-handed. When both parents are left-handed,
    about half their children are right-handed.\r\n\r\n*Left-handedness runs in families.
    In the British royal family, for example, the Queen Mother, Queen Elizabeth II,
    Prince Charles and Prince William are all left-handed.\r\n\r\n*Males are somewhat
    more likely than females to be left-handed. There is some evidence that the children
    of left-handed mothers and right-handed fathers are more likely to be left-handed
    than are the children of right-handed mothers and left-handed fathers.\r\n\r\n*In
    a striking 18 percent of identical twins, products of the same egg with exactly
    the same genetic makeup, one twin is right-handed and the other left-handed. There
    also seems to be a higher proportion of fraternal twins with different handedness
    than is the case with other siblings.\r\n\r\n*The left hemisphere of the brain
    controls the motor coordination of right-handed people, and the right hemisphere
    controls it in lefties. In almost all instances, the speech and language of right-handed
    people are controlled by the left side of their brain. But in left-handed people,
    the right hemisphere controls speech and language in at least 30 percent of the
    cases.\r\n\r\n*A much larger percentage of young people than old people are left-handed.
    This may be, as one researcher suggests, because lefties die earlier. Or it may
    be because in an earlier time, natural lefties were taught to write and perform
    other tasks with their right hands and now think of themselves as right-handed.\r\n\r\n*A
    disproportionate number of lefties seem to be geniuses (Einstein), artists (Leonardo,
    Michelangelo, Picasso) and athletes (Babe Ruth). A disproportionate number also
    seem to be criminals (Jack the Ripper, Billy the Kid).\r\n\r\n*Except for Jimmy
    Carter, every president for the last quarter-century has been left-handed. There
    is no question about Gerald R. Ford, George Bush or Bill Clinton. Ronald Reagan
    writes and eats with his right hand. But Edmund Morris, the Reagan biographer,
    has little doubt that Mr. Reagan is a natural lefty who is one of those who were
    trained to use their right hands. In the movies, Mr. Morris says, Mr. Reagan always
    twirled and shot pistols with his left hand, and as president, he always waved
    with his left hand. The presidential string is about to be broken. Vice President
    Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush are both right-handed. "
  created: '2007-10-13 17:38:12'
- author:
    name: hoolia_d
    picture: 112385
  body: "Theres a test for ambidexterity- very few people are truly capable of it.
    I can't remember  but it had something to do with clasping your hands and rotating
    them. I can't find anything to back it, but I also know that the hands can sort
    of mirror each other while drawing, etc. \r\n\r\nRalf- most instruments require
    both hands... and I know lefty guitar players who can play a mean righty guitar
    by turning it upside down and playing it that way."
  created: '2007-10-13 17:46:19'
- author:
    name: Gary Long
    picture: 112662
  body: "I've alway considered myself a lefty because I write with my left hand and
    draw or paint with it when I'm using a real pencil or brush. But I do a lot of
    things with my right hand---such as throwing a ball--and many things I do with
    either hand, depending on which is physically more practical in the circumstances.
    My score on the Edinburgh test was +33.\r\n\r\nInterestingly, I usually use my
    right hand to control the computer mouse, for routine clicking as well as for
    drawing and tracing. I think this is because I've used so many computers that
    weren't my setup that I simply kept the mouse where it had been placed on the
    right rather than switching it over. I can also use my left hand just as well
    though, and sometimes switch back and forth in long computer sessions.\r\n\r\nBeing
    of somewhat ambiguous handedness can cause trouble. Playing baseball, for instance,
    I have to throw with my right hand because I'm totally inept with my left for
    that purpose. But I also prefer to catch with my right hand! It being impractical
    to take a glove on and off my right hand, I do use use my left hand, but it feels
    darned awkward and probably helps explain why I'm always one of the last picked
    when choosing teams. No problem in hockey, though, where I used to play goal and
    held the catching mitt in my right and felt totally comfortable with the stick
    in my left.\r\n\r\nPeople I don't even know who are lefties often comment when
    they see me write with my left--e.g. a store clerk when I'm signing a credit card
    slip. Being part of a \"lefty minority\" seems to create a brief little bond.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-13 18:12:34'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Sure, you can learn to write with your \u201Cwrong\u201D hand as injured
    people often do, but to say that we become right- or left-handed because it\u2019s
    \u201Cjust easier\u201D is ridiculous. </cite>\r\n\r\nWell, I think it is a ridiculous
    idea, that a person who is born with identical arms and hands should be imprinted
    with a strange gene (no scientist has found yet) that tells them to just use one
    hand and not the other. \r\n\r\nOf course I know all the \"facts\" you listed
    but you know what they say about statistics ...\r\nFor example: Right-handed parents
    having a right-handed child does't prove a handedness gene. It can also just mean
    that the child successfully imitated their parents behaviour. \r\n\r\nOr as your
    linked article pointed out:\r\n\"But the truth is, the question of what causes
    people to be right-handed or left-handed is nearly as much of a mystery today
    as it was when Carlyle addressed it in 1871.\"\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-13 18:17:14'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Ralf - just because they don't know WHY people are left- or right-handed,
    or that it isn't genetic, isn't reason to dismiss the phenomena. Our arms may
    be identical but our brains are not symmetrical. Before a certain age (like 7
    or something) there is far more adaptibility between sides of the brain, as proven
    by kids with injuries to one half of the brain being able to use the other half
    for some of the tasks it's not normally programmed for.\r\n\r\n10% of the population
    is gay, they don't know why, they don't think it's genetic, surely you're not
    suggesting that's a choice too.\r\n\r\n<cite>Right-handed parents having a right-handed
    child does\u2019t prove a handedness gene. It can also just mean that the child
    successfully imitated their parents behaviour.</cite>\r\n\r\nI have one parent
    of each, and I'm right-handed. Like I said, a very small child will automatically
    gravitate to one or the other hand for most tasks. True ambidextrousness is rare,
    but more common among the left-handed, perhaps because they are trying to adapt
    to a largely right-handed world. Like I said, if it's a matter of choice, then
    why are 10% of the population left-handed when it's not clearly evolutionarily
    advantageous?\r\n\r\nI wonder, are there more car accidents in Britain, where
    the stick shift is on the left?"
  created: '2007-10-13 18:45:07'
- author:
    name: buddhaboy
    picture: 112340
  body: "Interesting point Patty... The only time I drove a left hand drive car with
    manual gearbox I found it quite awkward to begin with, and without thinking about
    it I sometimes tried to chnge gear in a way that mirrored the way I would change
    gear with my left hand.... resulting in some interesting noises from the mechanicals
    :O\r\n\r\nTherefore I think a great deal of handedness is self taught. The case
    of pianists is also a good one for dispelling people's inability to use either
    hand...\r\n\r\nBut, do people have a genetic predisposition to use one hand or
    the other? perhaps.\r\n\r\nOh, I'm right handed."
  created: '2007-10-13 18:54:53'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>\r\nRalf - just because they don\u2019t know WHY people are left- or
    right-handed, or that it isn\u2019t genetic, isn\u2019t reason to dismiss the
    phenomena. </cite>\r\n\r\nI don't dismiss the phenomena, I just have a different
    opinion how the phenomena is triggered.\r\n\r\n<cite> True ambidextrousness is
    rare, but more common among the left-handed, perhaps because they are trying to
    adapt to a largely right-handed world. </cite>\r\n\r\nExactly! A right-handed
    has usually no reason whatsoever to train his left hand. The world just fits to
    his behaviour. \r\nBut the left-handed my be tempted to use the mouse on the right
    side of the keyboard and so on. So he trains both his hands. So this can be easily
    explained without the need for magical genes for handedness or ambidextrousness.
    \r\n\r\nWhen people see me writing with the left hand they often say: This looks
    so strange! I could never write like that! (And sometimes they try and of course
    it looks terrible). But that's a common misunderstanding: Of course they can't
    write with the left hand. At first they couln't write with the right hand either.
    It took them years to learn to write with the right hand. And because of the way
    our brain works, this motor coordination can't be passed on to the other hand.
    But if they would take the time, they could do it. \r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>\r\nI wonder,
    are there more car accidents in Britain, where the stick shift is on the left?\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nOf
    course not! Like a said, everyone can learn any course of movement with both hands.
    The same amount of training assumed, there is no difference whatsoever. (see my
    piano player example)\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-13 19:21:30'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "But the phenomena I refer to is my belief that people are born with a predilection
    to favor one hand over the other. I think it can be influenced by your upbringing,
    or by effort, but not triggered by it. I repeat my question, why would anybody
    be left-handed otherwise? There is nothing to be gained from \"training\" yourself
    that way. And given the extensive efforts of previous generations to \"train\"
    lefties to use their right hands (to wit: my father) why wouldn't left-handedness
    just have died out?\r\n\r\nThis, to me, is the salient quote in the Times article:\r\n\r\n''Handedness
    is a complex behavior,'' Dr. Geschwind said, ''and no complex behavior has ever
    been shown to be due to only a single gene without any environmental influence.''"
  created: '2007-10-13 19:35:36'
- author:
    name: EileenB
  body: "Patty,\r\n\r\nYour comments make me think of my right-handed father. He has
    horrible penmanship, and he uses his left hand for everything <em>except</em>
    writing.  My mother is an kindergarten teacher, and believes my father is \"really
    a lefty.\"  \r\n\r\nDad went to catholic school, and remembers vividly being smacked
    with a ruler for holding his pencil with the \"wrong hand.\"  At 72, he's still
    right handed.  I suspect there are many stories like this, where kids try and
    emulate their parents' right-handedness, but it proves only moderately successful.
    \r\n\r\nBTW, I'm 100% righty.  My left hand is basically a headrest.\r\n\r\nEileen"
  created: '2007-10-13 20:03:34'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Furthermore, regarding the piano player example, the right hand usually gets
    the task of playing the more complex melodies, while the left hand plays the chords.
    The piano is in fact set up to favor righties this way. Obviously lefties learn
    to play beautifully without needing a reverse piano built for them. \r\n\r\nI
    had a lefty boyfriend who tried to learn guitar and it was a struggle for him.
    He either had to train the wrong hand to pick and strum, get a special lefty guitar,
    or play upside down. Righties don't have this problem. The left hand is of course
    used in guitar playing too, but its job is simpler, holding down the strings.\r\n\r\nI
    don't think you can't be trained to use your \"wrong\" hand. But it takes extensive
    training, far more than using your natural hand would."
  created: '2007-10-13 20:09:34'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>>>>the right hand usually gets the task of playing the more complex
    melodies</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, that's only true for special arrangements for beginners.
    In \"real\" piano scores the melody often moves seamlessly from one hand to the
    other and the chords are arranged as complex or even more complex as the melody.
    (The melody is usually just one or two notes, but the chords are 3 to 5 notes
    at the same time, which is far more difficult to play.)\r\n \r\n<cite> >>>The
    left hand is of course used in guitar playing too, but its job is simpler, holding
    down the strings.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, with the usual guitar the right hand has just
    to learn to the position of the six strings, but the left hand has to perform
    a huge number of complicated patterns of chords pressed down over six strings
    and up to 4 or 5 frets. \r\n(That's why I said it's stupid that left-handed players
    change their guitar position. They miss their advantage.)\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>>>>I
    don\u2019t think you can\u2019t be trained to use your \u201Cwrong\u201D hand.
    But it takes extensive training, far more than using your natural hand would.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut
    why is that? There's again an easy answer.\r\nEven if there would be a gene to
    become left-handed or right-handed, there is no such thing as an imprinted knowledge
    how to press guitar strings or how to learn to write with the right hand. Like
    I said: It's all just training. And the training of fine motor skills works equally
    with both hands. What should cause this to be not equal? I can't think of any
    plausible reason.\r\nOf course people \"think\" that they can learn something
    more easily with one hand. But why? Because they have already trained it more,
    so they just have to go the extra mile and don't have to start over with their
    \"weak\" hand. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-13 20:41:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">it\u2019s stupid that left-handed players change their guitar position.
    They miss their advantage.\r\n\r\nToo bad about Jimi Hendrix and Paul McCartney.
    And to think, they coulda been great :) "
  created: '2007-10-13 22:02:43'
- author:
    name: EileenB
  body: On that note, Jerry Garcia lost the middle finger off his right hand when
    he was five. If people could train their bonus hand just as well, why didn't Jerry?
    He played guitar right-handed all his life. Hmmmm.
  created: '2007-10-14 00:40:46'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>And the training of fine motor skills works equally with both hands.</cite>\r\n\r\n[Sigh...]
    one of the things I both love and hate about this forum is that no matter how
    thumpingly obvious something is (some people are born righties, some lefties)
    somebody here will ALWAYS take the contrary position."
  created: '2007-10-14 02:27:11'
- author:
    name: EileenB
  body: "I'm with you on that point. It's thumpingly obvious to me you have a great
    deal of uncommon sense, Pattyfab. \r\n\r\nEileen"
  created: '2007-10-14 02:42:16'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: "It's interesting to read everyone's comments.  Rather that saying that left-handedness
    was in my genes, I should have said that it runs in my family.  I agree that handedness
    is probably the result of a combination of genetics, environmental factors, and
    individual learning, which really muddies the waters when one tries to discuss
    it.  Still, it fascinates me that the vast majority of the human population ends
    up strongly right handed.  There must be something to that.\r\n\r\nI agree with
    Ralf that most of us can learn to do a variety of things with either hand.  I
    use a right-handed computer mouse, prefer [[http://www.handedness.org/action/fairdesks.html|right-handed
    desks]] (although I carry a clipboard to compensate for the odd shape and small
    writing area), play right-handed musical instruments without complaint (but also
    without much skill), and so on.  I use right-handed scissors with my left hand,
    but some scissors are so right-handed (sharp contours for right hand fingers and
    thumb) that I can't use them.\r\n\r\nMy right handed father-in-law practices forcing
    himself to do things with his left hand--he's a neurophysicist and believes that
    such exercises may help him retain normal functioning in the event of brain damage.
    \ There's a wonderful book by Jeffrey Schwartz called <em>The Mind and the Brain:
    Neuroplasticity and the Power of Mental Force</em>.  The author, a neuropsychiatrist,
    doesn't address handedness specifically, but he does talk about the brain's ability
    to adapt as a result of conscious training, as when stroke victims teach themselves
    to use limbs they can no longer feel.  I have no problem believing that any of
    us could strengthen the neural pathways related to our non-dominant hands, if
    we invested enough time and effort.\r\n\r\nWhile there's no hard proof that genetics
    plays a role in predisposing people toward a certain dominance pattern, there
    is considerable evidence suggesting as much.  Left-handed parents are significantly
    more likely to have left-handed children than right-handed parents are, and this
    effect holds up even among adopted children.  And, for the first time ever, scientists
    earlier this year identified a specific gene that may influence handedness: [[http://www.nature.com/mp/journal/vaop/ncurrent/abs/4002053a.html|LRRTM1]].
    \ But handedness is complex, and no one is near figuring it all out.\r\n\r\nI'd
    be interested to know whether the distribution of handedness among the Typophiles
    differs significantly from that of the general population, although such a study
    is probably not feasable.  I was once in a French class where almost half the
    class was left-handed.  I don't know what that means, if anything, but the probability
    of it occurring by chance must be relatively low.\r\n\r\nPatty,\r\n\r\nThanks
    for all the interesting information.  It's interesting to hear of a righty who
    writes with a hooked hand.  Are there any advantages to that approach?\r\n\r\nGary,\r\n\r\nI
    have the same problem with baseball (maybe because I've never tried to work on
    my catching).  I wonder how common it is for people to write with the left hand
    but throw with the right?\r\n\r\nThanks everybody for the interesting discussion."
  created: '2007-10-14 03:10:10'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Aric,\r\n\r\nI can't think of any advantages to the way I hold a pen, it's
    just what feels natural to me. But I read somewhere that a hooked grip reflects
    the influence of the other side of the brain. I can't remember where I read it
    tho.\r\n\r\nAnother interesting question - writing from left to right, as most
    western cultures do, probably stems from right-handedness - your hand doesn't
    smudge the ink that way. But I wonder why some languages, such as Hebrew, developed
    writing the other way around. Were there more lefties in ancient Israel?"
  created: '2007-10-14 03:48:55'
- author:
    name: EileenB
  body: "Hebrew was originally chiseled in stone. Holding a chisel with the left hand
    and hammering with the right lent itself to ergonomically writing right to left.
    \r\n\r\nSo, interestingly, it would seem that Hebrew also stemmed from right-handedness. "
  created: '2007-10-14 05:19:06'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>somebody here will ALWAYS take the contrary position.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt's
    not like I am trying to come up with an opposite position. I just play the piano
    and the guitar and know how this works. And my thoughs about using both hands
    equally come from my life-long experience of excercising this idea. I didn't made
    this up yesterday. I gave this a lot of thought. \r\nI don't expect anyone who
    uses mainly one hand to believe my theory just be reading this discussion. But
    I would suggest everyone to try their \"wrong\" hand once in a while. Maybe then
    they will realize there is some truth in that."
  created: '2007-10-14 08:57:01'
- author:
    name: inde
    picture: 112647
  body: 'well, guys, nice article, i can write and draw with both hands, mostly i
    use my right hand, in the test i got "53.8 Placing this subject in the 1st right
    decile." well i also agree with Herrmann it is clearly how often you exersice
    you "wrong" hands "precision movement" '
  created: '2007-10-14 13:27:11'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "And I'm not disputing that you can train your \"wrong\" hand to perform at
    a pretty high level. After all, I'm touch-typing as I write this and most of the
    more commonly used keys are on the left side of the keyboard. But I maintain that
    we are born with a preference and yes, \"because it's easier\" most people just
    use that same hand both for fine motor stuff and strength.\r\n\r\nWhen I was a
    kid I tried to teach my self to write left-handed. I got so it was legible but
    never very fluid. It is nice to have activities such as guitar or even yoga that
    force you to use both.  \r\n\r\nIt would be interesting to know how handedness
    works in other animals - how it evolved and why."
  created: '2007-10-14 16:07:39'
- author:
    name: elizabeth_355
    picture: 112087
  body: Well, I took the test, and according to the test I'm 100% right-handed ...
    but I use the mouse with my left hand. I step with the left foot first, and always
    use the left ear when talking on the phone. My father, sister, and daughter are
    left-handed.
  created: '2007-10-15 00:32:35'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: "elizabeth_355 and Quincunx and others point out some of the shortcomings
    of the Edinburgh inventory; there are so many things that we could do with one
    hand that it would be impossible to list them all (and the survey would quickly
    become boring).  With the exception of writing, the list of items seems somewhat
    arbitrary.  I haven't read up on the inventory enough to know how the particular
    items were chosen, or how well they predict lateralization of language functions.
    \ It's possible that a different set of questions might yield quite different
    scores, especially for people who are mixed-handed to some extent.\r\n\r\nOne
    of the uses for the Edinburgh survey in neuroscience is to weed out potential
    research subjects whose brains may be organized in a non-standard way.  In the
    vast majority of right-handed people, key language centers are located in the
    left hemisphere; a larger percentage of lefties (but still a minority) have these
    language centers in the right hemisphere, or in both hemisperes.  FMRI research
    involves looking in certain places in the brain for neural activity in response
    to stimuli, and usually the assumption is made that all subjects' brains are organized
    in roughly the same way.  The only sure way to validate this assumption would
    be to actually examine each subject's lateralization, via a [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wada_test|Wada
    test]] or something similar.  But that would be expensive and time-consuming and
    expose subjects to unnecessary risks and discomfort, and in the end the researchers
    would find out that almost all right-handed subjects had the same lateralization
    (while a minority of the left-handed ones showed other patterns).  So whaddaya
    do?  Administer a handedness inventory and only accept participants with a score
    close to +100.  For this particular job, the imperfections of the Edinburgh inventory
    aren't terribly problematic."
  created: '2007-10-15 10:51:10'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: "Patty,\r\n\r\nThe question about Hebrew and Arabic is interesting, and I
    don't have a really good answer.  Both derive from the Phoenician script, which
    was also written right to left.  The Phoenicians had access to clay tablets (a
    la cuneiform), papyrus, metal plates, and animal skins, as well as stone, as Eileen
    mentioned.  I imagine the early Hebrews had access to the same implements; seems
    like they wrote on a lot of scrolls.  If the tools most frequently used for writing
    worked better by being pushed than by being pulled, as perhaps with a chisel,
    that might incent a right-handed populace to write from right to left.\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-15 11:22:07'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Interesting discussion, Ralf's contrariness aside. Just because there has
    yet to be found a specific gene for left-handedness doesn't mean it's not there
    -- there are lots of other genetic predispositions that can't be nailed to one
    place on one gene. Yet.  There are lots of other more pressing genetic issues
    to explore at the moment.\r\n\r\nI wrote better with my left than my right as
    a kid, and as others have noted, there was a time when lefties were punished for
    being sinister, although I wasn't -- I think I just got tired of smearing the
    ink in my copybook.  ;-)\r\n\r\nBut I still do a lot of things lefty: sure makes
    being a two-handed beverage consumer more efficient, for example.... "
  created: '2007-10-15 22:25:04'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I've been right-handed since I can remember, but I use my left foot to kick,
    I used my left-eye in the viewfinder (used because now I don't use the viewfinder),
    and I'm pretty sure I prefer starting out on my bike with my left foot too. I
    think it is about what works.
  created: '2007-10-16 02:04:57'
- author:
    name: Berg
    picture: 112334
  body: "According to the test I am 100% left-handed, no surprise there. When I started
    to write as a child, my writing was mirrorlike, from right to left, inversing
    all the letters. In first grade at school, the teachers tried to train me to use
    my right hand, mostly by giving me very low grades each time they caught me using
    the left hand, but they also gave me low grades when I wrote with my right hand,
    because my writing was considered too clumsy. So I went on using my left hand
    and finally they gave in.\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-16 06:30:57'
- author:
    name: fallenartist
    picture: 111868
  body: "Score 60.0.\r\n\r\nI consider myself as left-handed, although the only things
    I do with my left hand is writing, drawing and sometimes eating. Basically, the
    more \"precise\" the task is the more I use my left hand. If there is more strenght
    needed (throwing etc.), I use my right hand.\r\n\r\nAs for the Patty-Ralph debate
    I'm on Patty's side. I was born \"lefty\" as my mom told me I always preferred
    to use my left hand. At some point I was \"forced\" to use my right hand for writing
    as I was smearing ink but nature was stronger :) My parents are both right-handed...\r\n\r\n__\r\n<a
    href=http://www.lenart.pl>AL</a>"
  created: '2007-10-16 18:36:23'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Hebrew was originally chiseled in stone.\"\r\nI learn something every day.
    \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-10-17 13:17:27'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>Hebrew was originally chiseled in stone.</cite>\r\n\r\nDo we actually
    know this? Or is it merely that the oldest surviving examples of Hebrew are stone
    tablets? Paper was invented centuries or millennia before any of the existing
    Hebrew samples, is it not possible they wrote on paper too and it didn't survive?\r\n\r\nI
    don't know, just wondering. And did the Egyptians write from left to right or
    the other way round?"
  created: '2007-10-17 14:53:21'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I have to echo Patty's question. Not necessarily because I'm a doubting Thomas,
    or Tiffany, but that when a statement like this is made it should be, in the very
    least, backed up by a link or two directing us to reputable sites. This kind of
    information would be great to add to the wiki, but without a good bibliography
    I don't know if it should be.
  created: '2007-10-17 19:06:19'
- author:
    name: spamfan
    picture: 113192
  body: "Here's a test...do you use your left or right brain.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.news.com.au/heraldsun/story/0,21985,22556281-661,00.html"
  created: '2007-10-17 20:16:57'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "There is a common misunderstanding with chiseled type: The stonecutters didn't
    made the shapes, they just chiseled along a preparatory drawing. The same is true
    for the Roman Capitals. The shapes (for example the serifs) have their origin
    in brush writings not in the chiseling itself. Looking at the shapes in the Hebrew
    alphabet, I would guess the same is true here.\r\n\r\nAncient Egypt had different
    writing systems. Which is not surprising, because we speak of several thousand(!)
    years. Egyptian hieroglyphs were set left to right, right to left and top to bottom.
    There were also cursive hieroglyphs and later the right to left scripts Hieratic
    and Demotic. \r\n\r\nThe Greeks wrote left to right, right to left and very often
    \xBBboustrophedon\xAB, where the direction changed in every line. That's why several
    of our letters got a symmetrical shape, like M which looked very differently in
    the Phoenician Alphabet. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-17 20:29:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Hebrew was originally chiseled in stone. \r\n\r\nThe original Hebrew script
    has straight lines, but in those ancient days, according to what I read, they
    had both clay and waxed tablets that they wrote in with a stylus. I seriously
    doubt that they normally wrote whacking away with a chisel and stone, even though
    they did that for monuments. The current alphabet is a pen-based script which
    they picked up during the exile in Babylonia (6th century BCE), and switched to.
    The current letters are written left to right, even though they are laid down
    right to left. "
  created: '2007-10-17 20:44:18'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>I seriously doubt that they normally wrote whacking away with a chisel
    and stone, even though they did that for monuments.</cite>\r\n\r\nI can't help
    picturing Fred Flintsone at this point.\r\n\r\nDid they not use paper)? We know
    they did eventually with the Dead Sea Scrolls but isn't it possible, given the
    proximity to Egypt, that papyrus or some equivalent was in use earlier?\r\n\r\nOf
    course since most of the population was probably illiterate there may not have
    been huge demand for written material outside of monuments or official documents
    which may have been those clay and waxed tablets."
  created: '2007-10-17 22:26:53'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "The development of the Hebrew script. From  <a href=\"http://www.magnespress.co.il/website_en/index.asp?category=179&id=1102\">Early
    History of the Alphabet: An Introduction to West Semitic Epigraphy and Paleography</a>
    Joseph Naveh (1987, Magnes Press / The Hebrew University of Jerusalem):\r\n\r\n1.
    Gezer Calender ( limestone). 2. Mesha stele (Moabite Stone). 3. Siloam inscription.
    4 7th century BC seals. 5. Early 6th century ostracon from Arad. 6. 2nd centurey
    BC Leviticus fragment. 7.  Medieval Samaritan bookhand\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hebrew-script_5538.jpg]"
  created: '2007-10-17 22:54:45'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "A Jeremiah (Yirmeyahu) text \u2014 Qumran (cave # 4): [img:sites/default/files/old-images/bible-j_5034.jpg]"
  created: '2007-10-17 23:22:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'David, does that book address the question of writing media? My guess is
    that the switch to Aramaic script coincided with a switch from stylus on clay
    and wax to pen and paper. But I don''t know. '
  created: '2007-10-18 14:28:28'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Here is very interesting talk by Jeff Hawkins about how the brain works:\r\nhttp://www.ted.com/index.php/talks/view/id/125\r\n\r\nWhat
    reminded me of this discussion of handedness were Hawkins examples of facts that
    are \"thumpingly obvious\" to everybody but still were wrong, because they were
    so obvious that nobody was able to step back and see the bigger picture. One of
    his examples was the Heliocentric Solar System. Back then it was very obvious
    that the sun goes around the earth, because no one felt the earth moving at incredible
    speed thru the universe, but they saw the sun going up and down on the sky every
    day. The ones who studied the paths of the planets and stars found very confusing
    data. They couln't understand it, because they tried to fit it in the wrong theory.
    But once the framework was understood all the confusing data was suddenly easy
    to explain.\r\n\r\nIn my humble opinion the same is true for the discussion of
    handedness. It seems obvious that we are born with a preference for one hand,
    but there is already enough data to have at least doubts in this theory. Just
    consider the fact that a very high rate of identical twins don't have the same
    handedness. To me, this makes it obvious that there must be something wrong with
    the theory, but some scientist even try desperately to squish those facts in their
    old theories instead of coming up with a new one.\r\nOnce they would embrace the
    fact that handedness \"develops\", suddenly all the data would become easliy explainable.
    You could explain the handedness of identical twins; you could explain why people
    like me or skilled musicans or surgeons have no problem at all training both hands
    equally; why there are more young lefties than old lefties; why crabs become left-
    and right-handed with a rate of 50:50; and so on and so forth. It could be so
    simple \u2026\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-24 11:21:34'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>It could be so simple \u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nYeah but it's not. You still
    have not explained why, in your magical world where our hands are equally adaptable,
    anybody at all would \"choose\" to be left-handed. Are you saying that 10% or
    whatever of infants decide to be rebellious straight out of the womb? And why
    would my father would persist in using his left hand when his teachers etc tried
    to \"train\" him out of it?\r\n\r\nThe point I have been <em>trying</em> to make
    is that handedness may not be specifically genetic, or attributable to just one
    gene. But that doesn't mean it doesn't exist. It could have to do with brain development
    in the womb or something.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.drspock.com/article/0,1510,5817,00.html"
  created: '2007-10-24 13:46:30'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>You still have not explained why, in your magical world where our hands
    are equally adaptable, anybody at all would \u201Cchoose\u201D to be left-handed.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    think that's the wrong question. It rather should be: When it's not genetic and
    we could use both of our hands equally, why aren't their 50 % lefties? In my theory
    the handedness develops in in the first years after a child is born. And obviously
    a child doesn't make this choice intentionally in terms of how appropriate this
    might be for a mostly right-handed society. They start to explore the world with
    their hands. And once they gained some fine motor skills with one hand, there
    is no need to train the other hand equally, because they already know to handle
    their toys or whatever. (I already explained this at the beginning of this discussion.)\r\nMy
    non-scientific belief is, that if we would remove all outside or parental influence
    on children, we would end up with 50 % lefties and 50 % righties. That's exactly
    what happens with some animals like crabs. They need to learn motor skills and
    they develop a handedness. But since they are not tought how to do it, and they
    don't learn it by adapting their parents behaviour, they choice can go both ways.
    And so the rate is always 50:50.\r\n\r\n<cite>\r\nAnd why would my father would
    persist in using his left hand when his teachers etc tried to \u201Ctrain\u201D
    him out of it?\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nIn my opinion that's a different story. We have
    to be careful not to mix up the REASONS that cause handedness with the EFFECTS
    it has on our brains. You already mentioned brain lateralization. I don't deny
    all those effects, but I believe they are effects, not causes. \r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>\r\nIt
    could have to do with brain development in the womb or something.\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nPossible.
    But isn't it much more likely that it happens in the moment we start to use (->train)
    our hands?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-24 14:59:57'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "We obviously won't agree on this and I'm not going to pursue it further however
    obvious it seems to me.\r\n\r\nI just want to raise again the comparison of homosexuality
    - which also seems to involve about 10% of the population (except of course Iran,
    according to it's loony prez). Some argue it's genetic, others insist it's a choice.
    Nothing is proven. We are obviously born capable of being either homo- or hetero-.
    In many societies homosexuality is considered a sin, or even a punishable crime.
    And yet there are homosexuals. In previous generations (and probably still today
    if you consider Senator Larry Craig) people would try to \"train\" themselves
    to be straight, even marrying and having kids. And yet...\r\n\r\nSo there are
    obviously behaviors or whatever you'd call them that are too complex to be attributed
    to simple nature or nurture. I'm going to repeat the quote that - to me - sums
    up this debate:\r\n\r\n\u201DHandedness is a complex behavior,\u201D Dr. Geschwind
    said, \u201Dand no complex behavior has ever been shown to be due to only a single
    gene without any environmental influence.\u201D"
  created: '2007-10-24 15:40:39'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Hebrew was originally chiseled in stone.\"\r\n\"Do we actually know this?\"\r\nI
    was kidding. This was so obviously a faulted statement, I didn't bother to respond.
    \r\n\r\n\u201DHandedness is a complex behavior,\u201D Dr. Geschwind said, \u201Dand
    no complex behavior has ever been shown to be due to only a single gene without
    any environmental influence.\u201D\r\n\r\nand if the above is true, then: \"I
    refer to is my belief that people are born with a predilection to favor one hand
    over the other.\"\r\n...must be a faulted belief.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-10-24 17:02:43'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: David - jeez just because I said your fonts were expensive a few months ago
    do you need to attack everything I say?
  created: '2007-10-24 20:51:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I just took the test and: \"This subject's laterality quotient is: 57.1\r\nPlacing
    this subject in the 1st right decile.\"\r\n\r\nI guess this means I am half-ass
    righthanded :-)\r\nWhile I was a fresman in design school, I badly sprained my
    right thumb. I spent much of that year drawing left-handedto avoid pain. I still
    consider myself to be right-handed like everyone else in my family.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-10-24 21:06:27'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Sorry Bill.  This post was originally chiseled in stone :^)  First, you're
    right  (The original Hebrew script......are laid down right to left). Second....\r\n\r\nEarly
    History of the Alphabet: An Introduction to West Semitic Epigraphy and Paleography
    \  \u2014 Joseph Naveh, pp. 2-5: \r\n\r\n\r\nExcluding the Ugaritic texts, which
    are written in alphabetic cuneiform script on clay tablets [*] , the material
    can be divided into two main groups: inscriptions made with a pointed instrument,
    mainly on stone or metal, and manuscripts written in ink on papyrus, parchment
    and even on postherds.....\r\n\r\n...types of inscriptions:\r\n\r\nGraffiiti \u2014
    \ these are short inscriptions which consist generally of a proper name incised
    on various objects as a sign of ownership\r\n\r\nVotive inscriptions are written
    on objects that are dedicated to deities\r\n\r\nBurial inscriptions or epitaphs\r\n\r\nMemorial
    stelae\r\n\r\nTurning to inscriptions written in ink, we shall begin by mentioning
    the simplest text, the dipinto, which resembles the graffito except that the letters
    are painted instead of incised. As a rule, ink was used for writing on papyrus
    or parchment, but less important texts  were also written on postherds, called
    ostraca\r\n\r\n------\r\n\r\n[*]  also  The Story of writing \u2014 Andrew Robinson
    (Thames & Hudson, second edition 1995 & 2007) page 82: the majority of cuneiform
    inscriptions are written on clay.... [also baked clay]  The stylus was usually
    made of reed [and sometimes bone or metal].\r\n\r\nand also The Bible and The
    Ancient Near East  \u2014 Essays in Honor of  William Foxwell Albright ( A Doubleday
    Anchor Book, 1961 & 1965) \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-24 21:17:50'
- author:
    name: mjpatrick
    picture: 111908
  body: "I came in at 100. The scenarios are limited. I have no desire to be equally
    adept with a broom using my left hand. That's not a right hand dominance thing
    going on so much as just that I get bored cleaning in general and just want to
    get it over with.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand (... sorry) I play guitar 2 hours a
    day, fretting with my left hand and strumming with my right. Strumming is more
    wrist-based and is really, for me, the easy part. \r\n\r\nI have spent countless
    hours working on developing \"finger independence\" by doing specific drills on
    the guitar, using a Gripmaster or the following: Lay your fretting hand flat on
    a table and try to lift each finger one at a time without any of the others popping
    up. Oh, and lift those fingers HIGH too. :-) Once you get that down, build up
    speed... then work on lifting up the index and ring finger at the same time while
    keeping the others down, doing the same with the middle and pinky fingers."
  created: '2007-10-25 03:31:28'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Hello All..\r\n\r\nNot too many people know that Jeremiah is todays English
    approximation of the more scholarly form, Yirmeyahu. Jesus is also approximated
    from hebrew characters that render as Yeshua. But those scholarly translations
    can only be approximations too. <EM>The Hebrews only wrote in consonants.</em>
    The is particularly important in reference to the Tetragrammaton- the Divine Name.
    They did so, not only on stone but on clay and parchment stretched from the skins
    of animals. And of course, cork tree and papyrus based papers.\r\n\r\nThe Jews
    (of biblical times) were all educated and literate as daily reading/inculcation
    of the holy writings (the \"Law of Moses\" and of course the rest of the holy
    writings encompassing the hebrew scriptures) was required and an integral part
    of worship- from early youth and never ending. If memory serves me correctly Aramaic,
    Hebrew and Greek were all in use at the time of the christian greek scriptures
    (the second half of the bible)."
  created: '2007-10-25 09:39:04'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"David - ... do you need to attack everything I say?\"\r\nMy apologies.
    (see how that works?)\r\n\r\nOne of my first posts on this site was on the topic
    of lateral dominance. There, I pointed out the means by which a person can find
    their eye. Since then, I made a list of the things that are lateral, so folks
    can think beyond their hands: Sighting, fighting, lighting, biting and writing.
    :)\r\n\r\nCheers. "
  created: '2007-10-25 13:46:26'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Not to beat a dead horse here, but Leonard Lopate on National Public Radio
    did a very cool feature today on handedness - current wisdom favors a gene for
    right-handedness that is somehow absent in the left-handed.\r\n\r\nHere's a link,
    scroll down\r\n\r\nhttp://www.wnyc.org/shows/lopate/episodes/2007/10/26\r\n\r\nThe
    experts on this show  go into some interesting detail on lateral dominance - the
    right hand specializes in mechanics and the left hand in stabilization for example.
    So both have necessary tasks. They also did brain imaging scans on people who
    have \"switched\" hands and found evidence that your original hand preference
    still leaves a signature in the brain scan. Interestingly it is easier to train
    your \"wrong\" hand to do fine motor skills than to do skills involving strength
    which may be why Ralf insists handedness doesn't exist, since he can play the
    piano with both hands."
  created: '2007-10-27 04:28:35'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: Interesting.  What the scientists said about fine motor skills does seem to
    agree with Ralf's theory.  I was also intrigued by the comments on the genetic
    and neurological components of handedness.  It would be interesting to look at
    their theory in more detail.  Thanks for the link.
  created: '2007-10-27 07:12:37'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "I am happy they supported my theory, that even complex skills like writing
    can be learned equally with both hands! That's what I kept saying and no one wanted
    to believe it. ;-)\r\n\r\nI also agree to all the connections between handedness
    and brain lateralization. The big question is, what is the cause and what's the
    effect? Since the general assumption is, that handedness is genetic, than lateralization
    must also be genetic. But like I said: I think it is much more likely, these things
    happen when we \"shape\" our brain when we start using it, for example when a
    child learns to understand language, learns to speak, learns to use it's hands,
    learns to recognize faces and so on. "
  created: '2007-10-27 08:39:14'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Well Ralf, not exactly. Your theory seems to be that handedness arises from
    nurture not nature, and that's not what these scientists said at all. They fully
    acknowledge that most humans are born righties. While we can train our \"wrong\"
    hands to perform fine motor skill, brain imaging showed that the left brain (hence
    right hand) is more suited for mechanics. So from an early age, grasping a pen
    or a fork or whatever, we begin to use our right brains for these tasks and continue
    to do so. Just because it's possible to train our wrong hands does not mean it's
    equally easy as you say or (for most of us) necessary.\r\n\r\nIn your world either
    50% of the population would be lefties (if our hands are equally trainable, why
    not?) or there'd be no lefties at all (wouldn't righties raise their kids to be
    righties?). Or we'd all be ambidextrous and there would be a LOT more switch hitters
    in baseball.\r\n\r\nDid you actually listen to the piece? "
  created: '2007-10-27 15:21:18'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Didn't you say you will not pursue this any further? ;-) \r\n\r\nI know they
    have a very different theory. And that's fine. I just take the freedom to come
    up with my own conclusions when my personal experience or my common sense suggest
    me to have doubts in a theory, even when this theory is widely spread. \r\nSo
    far nothing is proven and therefore my theory is as good as any other. Time will
    tell. I can change my mind quickly when a theory is convincing, but I will not
    fall for an opinion just because it is widely spread. "
  created: '2007-10-27 16:04:20'
- author:
    name: Gary Long
    picture: 112662
  body: "My sister, who is right-handed, always likes to tell me (a lefty) that left-handedness
    is a result of brain damage at birth.\r\n\r\nWhen I was younger and enough hair
    on my head to make a part, I used to part in on the opposite side to most men
    (this is so long ago I can't even remember which side). This caused so much trouble
    with barbers and with people who thought I was an image in a mirror that I eventually
    swtiched to parting it the same way as everyone else. I can comb what's left equally
    well with left and right hands."
  created: '2007-10-27 19:15:47'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: " This piece actually said there's a correlation between handedness and the
    direction your hair sworls on your head. They were going up to random men in the
    airport and guessing which ones were lefties based on their hair.\r\n\r\nRalf
    you are one stubborn mofo. You remind me of the people who think evolution is
    only a theory because their grandparents weren't monkeys."
  created: '2007-10-27 20:05:49'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "I guess it's good I don't know what \xBBmofo\xAB means and my dictionary
    doesn't know either. But I do understand \xBBstubborn\xAB and this is insulting
    enough. I would be stubborn if I would close my eyes and ears and don't listen
    to other peoples opinions. But that's not the case. Like I said: I have read anything
    that is out there on this topic (and will do so in the future) and I would instantly
    switch sides if I just read ONE article that would make sense to me and could
    explain ALL circumstances of handedness in one theory. Until then, please don't
    call me stubborn just because I don't follow your opinion. Thanks!"
  created: '2007-10-27 20:16:33'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: "<em>even complex skills like writing can be learned equally with both hands!</em>\r\n\r\nWhat
    Dr. Sainburg actually said was even more intriguing: he said that fine motor skills
    (such as writing) can be easily learned with one's non-dominant hand, but that
    it's considerably more difficult to master gross motor skills (e.g. throwing)
    with one's non-dominant hand.  This seems counter-intuitive, but I liked the explanation
    the scientists gave (which at this point is an unproven theory): genetic right-handedness
    predisposes individuals to undertake certain functions with the right hand and
    arm, while the left hand and arm perform complementary functions.  For example,
    the right hand is predisposed to applying force, while the left hand provides
    stabilization.  There is no genetic predisposition for specific tasks, especially
    ones as complex as writing (but one could easily imagine that, given the functions
    each hand is accustomed to, you would naturally decide to write with the right
    hand and stabilize the writing surface with the left hand).  The evidence he cites
    is that people who have lost use of their dominant hand are able to master writing
    and other fine motor tasks with relative ease, but they have a very hard time
    mastering gross motor skills.\r\n\r\nSo for these scientists the question is not
    whether there is a genetic component, but what the effects and limits of that
    genetic component are.  From their point of view, as I understand it, some of
    the effects we attribute to handedness are direct effects of genetics, while others
    emerge from those effects but depend on learning.\r\n\r\nIt seems to me that any
    complete theory of handedness needs to have both a genetic component and a learning
    component.  The genetic component is needed to explain all the correlations between
    handedness and other features that are obviously genetic (such as inheritance
    patterns and hair whorl direction).  The learning component needs to account for
    the fact that we can (and many do) train our non-dominant hand to accomplish complex
    tasks.  Explanations that ignore either of these aspects will have some gaping
    holes."
  created: '2007-10-28 08:07:13'
date: '2007-10-13 12:19:12'
title: Do designers use left or right hand (and to what extent)?

---
