---
author:
  name: filip blazek
  picture: 110363
body: I just discovered, Sony Vegas Pro 8.0, my favorite software for video, audio
  and dvd creation, now supports OpenType features in the ProType Titler built in
  text engine. At first sight, it looks and works good, it also implements features
  not yet available in Adobe apps (petite caps 'pcap', unicase 'unic', ruby 'ruby').
  I hope it will inspire other software vendors...
comments:
- author:
    name: emenninga
  body: 'InDesign does support the ''ruby'' feature as an option on ruby in the Japanese
    version.  But I agree with your post in general. '
  created: '2007-10-17 21:47:38'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Very interesting, thanks for the screenshot. Looking at it, isn't it time
    for Adobe/MS to publish some guidelines as regards the relation of OpenType UI
    options and features? Maybe just sum up what InDesign or WPF do -- since fonts
    produced so far have been made to work with these.\r\n\r\nA few examples: The
    screenshot shows that there are separate options for \"Standard Swashes\" and
    \"Contextual Swashes\" (both features called by \"Swashes\" in ID), or \"Standard
    Ligatures\" and \"Contextual Ligatures\" (both called by \"Ligatures\" in ID),
    or \"Capital Spacing\" is a special option (bundled with uppercase'ing in the
    \"All Caps\" option in InDesign).\r\nAFAIK, the distinction between contextual
    and non-contextual versions of a feature is a mere technical, not a semantic one
    -- and I remember that earlier recommendations said, put ligatures in \"Ligatures\"
    and contextual ligatures in \"Contextual Ligatures\", plainly based on whether
    they involve context or not. Now this would have the effect that if a user activates
    \"Ligatures\" but not \"Contextual Ligatures\" he only gets half of what the designer
    intended to happen when clicking e.g. the \"Ligatures\" button.\r\nAnd why is
    kerning made a separate <cite>option</cite>?\r\n\r\nIt is great to see that more
    applications support OT features -- but as of now, with (more or less) different
    interface approaches take alone from Adobe and Apple (and are there any WPF-based
    apps already?), I fear that OpenType options will confuse designers rather than
    encourage them to actually use them. And maybe even apply features \"wrongly\"
    by activating them only partially ...\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2007-10-18 15:38:47'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>I fear that OpenType options will confuse designers rather than encourage
    them to actually use them. </cite>\r\n\r\nThat's the reality right now! But I
    don't expect that the interfaces will ever get unified across applications. The
    needs of users of a word processor, layout or image procession software are much
    too different. \r\nI would be glad if at least the menu names for the OpenType
    features would be unified. In the German Creative Suite there are up to 3 names
    for one feature and some translations are completely wrong. And the names are
    new in every version! I'm not surprised that many CS users have never opened the
    OpenType menu/panel."
  created: '2007-10-18 21:48:14'
- author:
    name: emenninga
  body: "The problem of how to present OpenType features to users consists of a few
    separate problems that InDesign has had to deal with:\r\n1) Features that are
    mutually exclusive. For example, <strong>pcap</strong> and <strong>smcp</strong>
    probably shouldn't be applied to the same text. And <strong>dnom, sups, sinf,
    subs,</strong> and <strong>numr</strong> would be problematic when combined.\r\n2)
    Features that make sense applied together. For example, it seems unlikely that
    anyone would need to apply <strong>case</strong> and <strong>cpsp</strong> independently.\r\n3)
    Features that don't really need to be called out. For example, <strong>ccmp, locl,</strong>
    or <strong>rlig</strong>.\r\n\r\nTo address (1), InDesign applies certain features
    based on mutually exclusive settings. For example, the numbering styles in InDesign
    become variations of <strong>pnum, onum, tnum</strong> and <strong>lnum</strong>.\r\n\r\nTo
    address (2) InDesign groups some features together in \"bundles\" underneath some
    user applied attributes. Here are some examples. \r\n<em>Discretionary ligatures</em>
    - <strong>dlig + hlig</strong>\r\n<em>Contextual alternates</em> - <strong>calt
    + clig</strong>\r\n<em>Swashes</em> - <strong>swsh + cswh</strong>  \r\n<em>All
    caps</em> - <strong>case + cpsp</strong> (if the font's kerning is used)\r\nNote:
    <strong>clig</strong> is applied with <strong>calt</strong>, not <strong>liga</strong>.\r\nQuestion:
    should <strong>cswh</strong> be considered contextual or swash in nature?\r\n\r\nWe
    have a couple examples of (3) where OpenType features are on and there isn't any
    way for the user to turn them off (outside of scripting): <strong>locl, mark,
    mkmk, ccmp,</strong> and <strong>rlig</strong>.\r\n\r\neric\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-18 22:00:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The problem of how to present OpenType features to users</em>\r\n\r\nWhat
    problem?\r\nWhy don't you just list the features in a font?\r\nThen users can
    decide which they want to apply.\r\n\r\nAs it is, different layout applications,
    whether Quark vs Adobe or InDesign vs Photoshop, have their own *interpretations*.\r\nThis
    is not doing users or font developers any favours."
  created: '2007-10-18 22:43:13'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Hello Mr Menninga, thank you -- also for correcting my clig error, and for
    pointing out the dependency of cpsp on kern of which I was not aware. This is
    very helpful, and I like the categories.\r\n(1) is a very sensitive one. For font
    developers it were nice to know that <cite>all</cite> application developers stick
    to this for sure, then ordering features/lookups at least for certain features
    were much less of an issue.\r\n\r\nRalf Herrmann -- <cite>That's the reality right
    now!</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, but currently it's only very few applications which offer
    OT support, so it's still possible to guide the many others who plan adding OT
    support.&nbsp;&nbsp;:)\r\n\r\n<cite>But I don't expect that the interfaces will
    ever get unified across applications. The needs of users of a word processor,
    layout or image procession software are much too different.</cite>\r\n\r\nI do
    not expect <cite>identical</cite> user interfaces everywhere. Whether there are
    four checkboxes for the four numeral styles (InDesign) or 2x2 checkboxes (Apple,
    Sony Vegas Pro) -- both approaches are intelligible. And of course different kinds
    of applications may support different kinds of features. What bothers me are aspects
    (1) and (2) as mentioned by Mr Menninga.\r\n\r\n<cite>What problem?</cite>\r\n\r\nHello
    Nick, offering a checkbox for every single feature may be too much, even a modest
    font may easily have 20 features minimum. So reducing the choices UI-wise makes
    sense. And some features need not even be exposed because they should just be
    on (kern, calt): they are essential part of the design, not options.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2007-10-19 00:03:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I only have Indesign CS, so I don't know whether this has been changed in
    later versions. \r\n\r\nI don't understand why there is a separate fly-out for
    open type features, separate from other character formatting. What does the user
    care how the features are accessed? Doesn't it make more sense to have all character
    formatting in one window? Is there something I'm missing here? "
  created: '2007-10-19 01:08:43'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Filip: Very cool!\r\n\r\nKarsten: Adobe has published this information for
    some years now, in the table at the end of our OpenType User Guide.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-10-19 04:26:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>So reducing the choices UI-wise makes sense.</em>\r\n\r\nNo, because
    the UI is suggesting a list of features which is, in relation to any given font,
    arbitrary.\r\n\r\nHere is how the features should be shown, as they appear in
    FontLab's Preview panel: only the features that are in the font, no more, no less.
    (This is, I suspect, the way that the next generation of Type Testers at online
    retailers will work.)\r\n\r\nFollowed by the way the same font appears in InDesign,
    with redundancy of [not available] features, and redundancy of faux and OT features.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Preview_3429.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Palettes_3977.jpg]\r\n\r\nDoesn't
    it make more sense to let type founders decide how to \"reduce the choices\" (if
    they consider it necessary), rather than have the application present the user
    with a generic list of features, many of which are redundant? \r\n\r\nOnly a small
    class of serif faces are likely to have most of the features shown in the menu:
    Script fonts, for instance, might have swash and contextual alts, but not tabular
    figures, small caps, and subscript. Sans serifs are the other way round.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-19 04:58:05'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "K.L. <cite>So reducing the choices UI-wise makes sense.</cite>\r\nN.S. <cite>No,
    because the UI is suggesting a list of features which is, in relation to any given
    font, arbitrary.</cite>\r\n\r\nTherefore my request to OT spec authors, please
    add some (formal) information or recommendations about bundling features into
    UI options -- to remove this arbitrariness.&nbsp;&nbsp;:)\r\n\r\nI know the table
    in the OT Guide and appreciate it. So, some links:\r\n&bull;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href=\"http://www.adobe.com/type/browser/pdfs/OTGuide.pdf\"
    target=\"_blank\">OT features in Adobe applications</a> (p.14), bundled\r\n&bull;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a
    href=\"http://msdn2.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms745109.aspx\" target=\"_blank\">OT
    features in WPF</a>, bundling up to app developer\r\n(Will there be a similar
    table for MacOS 10.5?)"
  created: '2007-10-19 10:09:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks for the links Karsten.\r\n\r\nThese documents are useful, especially
    for highlighting inconsistencies.\r\n\r\nOne thing that struck me about the WPF
    document is the way that some of the typographic features are renamed in the code.\r\nFor
    instance, fractions are designated either \"slashed\" or \"stacked\", which makes
    perfect sense -- but does not correspond to the Feature Tags \"frac\" and \"afrc\"
    -- which is described elsewhere in the MS Feature Tag web page as \"nut\", with
    no mention of stacking.\r\n\r\nSimilarly, the WPF document is correct in describing
    three of the four figure attributes -- \"proportional\", \"oldstyle\", and \"tabular\",
    in accordance with feature tag and application practice, but opts for \"normal\"
    instead of \"lining\" in the code, and refers to this as \"standard\" in the accompanying
    text.\r\n\r\nThis kind of inconsistent naming is intended to be helpful, but in
    fact drives users up the wall as they attempt to understand concepts and principles
    in a wider context, by comparing their knowledge and experience in one area with
    that in another.\r\n\r\nIt seems to me that the immutable part of all this is
    the feature tags. Perhaps these features are not all perfectly conceived and named,
    but rightly or wrongly we have to live with them, and turn their hard-and-fast
    nature to our advantage. These feature tags have a four-letter code name, and
    a \"friendly name\" -- clearly spelled out at the OpenType Layout tag registry.
    \r\n\r\nWhy don't application developers follow the lead and use the code names
    in code, and the friendly names in their explanatory text and menus?"
  created: '2007-10-19 19:32:26'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I strongly disagree with Nick's statement that features not present in the
    currently selected font should be made completely unavailable. We certainly considered
    that in the Adobe UI, and rejected it due to numerous problems:\r\n\r\n- what
    would the app display for OpenType features when the current text selection has
    multiple fonts?\r\n\r\n- as a user, I want to be able to select a block of text,
    turn on a bunch of features (which may not all be supported by a given typeface),
    and then cycle through a bunch of fonts. Nick's approach makes this difficult,
    and perhaps impossible.\r\n\r\n- in creating character and paragraph styles, I
    need to be able to select features regardless of what is supported by any given
    font.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-10-19 23:42:48'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "<cite>For instance, fractions are designated either \u201Cslashed\u201D or
    \u201Cstacked\u201D, which makes perfect sense \u2014 but does not correspond
    to the Feature Tags \u201Cfrac\u201D and \u201Cafrc\u201D \u2014 which is described
    elsewhere in the MS Feature Tag web page as \u201Cnut\u201D, with no mention of
    stacking.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhen choosing names for WPF typography properties we asked
    people around how many of them know what \"nut\" fraction is. You can guess the
    result. Even if description in OT spec uses different word than WPF feature, interpretation
    is the same and not confusing. They should not be exactly the same. \r\n\r\n<cite>Similarly,
    the WPF document is correct in describing three of the four figure attributes
    \u2014 \u201Cproportional\u201D, \u201Coldstyle\u201D, and \u201Ctabular\u201D,
    in accordance with feature tag and application practice, but opts for \u201Cnormal\u201D
    instead of \u201Clining\u201D in the code, and refers to this as \u201Cstandard\u201D
    in the accompanying text.</cite>\r\n\r\nI agree in this case, \"Default\" looks
    better for me too. This value indicates that glyph forms will be default for this
    font. I do not remember exactly, but I think word \"Normal\" had been choosen
    to keep it consistent between different properties. They may have different names
    best describing default state, but developers should be able to quickly understand
    how to set property to \"undefined\" state. \r\n\r\n<cite>Why don\u2019t application
    developers follow the lead and use the code names in code, and the friendly names
    in their explanatory text and menus?</cite>\r\n\r\nIf you design a platform API,
    you still need to have descriptive names, because you have a user -- developer.
    Simple feature tags are not descriptive enough. WPF also tried to define some
    structured set of properties, grouping and naming features so application developer
    can't make errors like applying features proportional and tabular digits together.\r\n\r\nOut
    of three things Eric called out, WPF definitely addresses (1) and (3), because
    this would protect developer from making logical error. Representing typographic
    features in UI is completely different topic. We leave (2) to application, because
    assumption may or may not be true. For example, InDesign applies historical and
    discretionary ligatures together under one name, but other app may do it differently.
    App may use only first stylistic alternate or allow picking from the set. App
    designer may deside to organize, group or enable/disable them differently, based
    on his own understanding and target audience.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey\r\n\r\nP.S.
    Looking at Sony Vegas 8.0 system requirements (they include WPF) makes me wonder
    if it is actually using WPF to support OpenType features. Unfortunately, I can't
    find any information to confirm that."
  created: '2007-10-20 02:31:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I strongly disagree with Nick\u2019s statement that features not present
    in the currently selected font should be made completely unavailable. </em>\r\n\r\nTo
    make a feature available, one applies it to a font which supports that feature.\r\nDo
    people apply features to fonts that don't have them?\r\nWhat is the point of applying
    \"all small caps\" or \"proportional oldstyle\" to a \"Standard\" font?\r\n\r\n<em>what
    would the app display for OpenType features when the current text selection has
    multiple fonts?</em>\r\n\r\nNo different than now.\r\nAll features applied only
    to some fonts in some part of the text would be shown, but with a \"dash\" indicating
    that they are not globally applied.\r\n\r\n<em>- as a user, I want to be able
    to...\"</em>\r\n\r\nIs that statement the result of surveys that Adobe has made
    of how people work with OpenType in InDesign etc.?\r\n\r\n<em>Nick\u2019s approach
    makes this difficult, and perhaps impossible.</em>\r\n\r\nMy proposal wouldn't
    stop anyone cycling through fonts.\r\nYou're assuming that a typographer would
    start with text in, say, Times Roman, and apply features to that text that are
    not supported by TR, then try out some fonts to see which look good and support
    the features.\r\nSurely, if a typographer wants to apply a feature, and the font
    selected does not support that feature, they change the font -- they want to see
    what the feature looks like applied.\r\n\r\n\r\nI'm suggesting that the display
    of features should be font- and document-driven, not application-driven:\r\n\r\n-
    If a feature is applied in selected text, it should show up in the feature menu.\r\n-
    If a feature is available in a font that is selected, it should show up in the
    feature menu.\r\n- If a feature is applied in selected text, but not available
    in the font selected, it should be indicated by brackets (as it is now) or by
    being greyed out.\r\n- If it is applied only in some of the selected text, it
    should be indicated by a dash (as it is now).\r\n\r\n<em>in creating character
    and paragraph styles, I need to be able to select features regardless of what
    is supported by any given font.</em>\r\n\r\nAgain, I'm not going to select a font
    that does not support the feature I want. If I want superior figures and I have
    a Standard font selected, I will change the font, not apply the feature in \"bracket\"
    mode.\r\n\r\nI want to see immediately, clearly, and not on a buried menu, what
    OpenType features are present in the font of my selection, not be presented with
    a bewildering mixture of real and faux options, repeated options, and options
    in brackets.\r\n\r\nAnd, on the other hand, if the text I'm working with already
    has features applied, and I'm considering changing the font, I again don't want
    to have the GUI cluttered up with options that aren't applied in the text, and
    aren't available in the font selected."
  created: '2007-10-20 03:22:21'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "This is not so simple. If you are expert typographer working in InDesign
    and control everything around your text, you may be right.\r\n\r\nIf you are kind
    of MS Word user and type text in several languages, your font will change automatically
    with the language. \r\n\r\nIf you are in the browser, you may not even know whehter
    font you want is present on client system. Or you just say font is \"script\",
    not speciying particular one. Still, you expect browser to display smallcaps.\r\n\r\nEverything
    depends on particular use and so UI may be designed and behave differently.\r\n\r\nSergey"
  created: '2007-10-20 04:22:34'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Interesting, Nick. So once you've switched to a font that no longer supports
    a feature, that also means you can't turn it off on that text, right?\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-10-21 01:34:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Wrong.\r\n\r\nI said:\r\n\"- If a feature is applied in selected text, but
    not available in the font selected, it should be indicated by brackets (as it
    is now) or by being greyed out.\"\r\n\r\nIt could still be turned off, which is
    how things work now for features not supported by the selected font.\r\n\r\nRather
    than have an arbitrary list of features in the application menu, the OpenType
    menu items that appear should be the result of text- and font-specific prompts:\r\n(a)
    features that have been applied in selected text\r\n(b) features that are available
    in the active font\r\n\r\nSurely this is a better method for an OpenType GUI,
    avoiding a list of options that is otherwise full of redundancies, and yet can
    never accomodate every feature.\r\n\r\nIt would also put the onus on foundries
    to configure their features in such a manner to work efficiently (ie reasonably
    succinctly) in the menus, and this would encourage us to cut down on bloated lists
    of features that users may find offputting. For instance, there is little point
    in including \"denominator\" and \"numerator\" if you have a fraction feature.\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-23 19:19:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Here's a proposal for how a Feature Menu could work:\r\n\r\n1. This is the
    Feature Menu that would appear for a font with no OpenType features:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Menu0_6716.jpg]\r\n\r\n2.
    This is the Feature Menu that would appear when an OpenType font with many features
    is selected:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Menu1_4364.jpg]\r\n\r\n3.
    This is the Feature Menu that would appear for an OpenType font with just one
    feature, for instance a \"handwriting\" script:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Menu2_4599.jpg]\r\n\r\n4.
    This is the Feature Menu that would appear when text with applied features is
    selected, and the \"handwriting\" script is applied. Proportional oldstyle figures
    are applied throughout, and all small caps in parts:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Menu3_5560.jpg]\r\n\r\nDoes
    this make any sense at all, or should I just mind my own business and stick to
    type design? :-)"
  created: '2007-10-25 01:27:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>should I just mind my own business?</em>\r\n\r\nThe silence is deafening."
  created: '2007-10-26 19:08:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, I like your table much better than the existing two in InDesign. I
    don't know about the technical problems. \r\n\r\nI suspect that the current way
    of having the open type stuff as a fly out window impedes acceptance and use of
    open type. "
  created: '2007-10-26 20:52:24'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>The silence is deafening.</cite>\r\n\r\nStill thinking about it. (Currently
    I prefer greying out -- or bracketing -- non-available features rather than not
    showing them, for the reason Thomas gave: you may want to select a feature even
    though the currently selected font does not support it. Also, if you'd really
    de-bundle features, the list would get a bit longer.) You remind me of a feature
    request I did two years ago.&nbsp;&nbsp;:)"
  created: '2007-10-26 22:19:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>if you\u2019d really de-bundle features,</em>\r\n\r\nThat's not really
    necessary--note that I show \"all small caps\" (smcp + c2sc)--and there's no reason
    to show features such as \"local\".\r\n\r\n<em>you may want to select a feature
    even though the currently selected font does not support it.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't
    believe people generally work that way, but a sub-menu would cover the possibility.\r\nAnd
    with the Feature Menu always on display--as it should be--such a sub menu would
    still be at a higher level than the present OpenType menu.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Menu5_5983.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    thing is, there are so many OpenType features, it's a bit much to have them all
    on display in the OT menu all the time.\r\nTo the 17 in the \"loaded font\" menu
    I showed above may be added 13 more: Petite caps, Alternative fractions, Historical
    forms, Historical ligatures, Slashed zero, Contextual Swash, Unicase, Ornaments,
    Stylistic Sets, Stylistic Alternates, Random (and perhaps Numerator and Denominator,
    although with \"Fraction\" these are redundant)--for a total of 30 items. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-27 00:59:28'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "With further bits over here: \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/37122\r\n(additions
    of 2.Nov.2007)"
  created: '2007-11-02 19:20:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In light of this\r\nhttp://ilovetypography.com/2014/10/25/why-a-better-opentype-user-interface-matters/\r\nit
    seems time to revive this thread...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-27 20:06:48'
date: '2007-10-17 21:33:51'
title: Sony Vegas Pro 8.0 and OpenType

---
