---
author:
  name: Tintin81
  picture: 112693
body: "Hello,\r\n\r\nI had a flash of inspiration last night and quickly sketched
  a new logo for my web design company \"DesignBits\". I am relatively new to logo
  and type design though, so I am not entirely sure how to take this design to the
  next step. I used to work in Photoshop a lot, but people keep telling me that Illustrator
  is actually better for designing logos and type. What would you suggest?\r\n\r\nThe
  most important thing is the actual typeface though. I need a font that resembles
  the one I sketched on paper. Has anybody ever seen such a font anywhere? \r\n\r\nAny
  help is much appreciated...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo_scan_4549.jpg]\r\n\r\n[[http://www.designbits.de|Web
  Design Hamburg]]"
comments:
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "You have to create your logo in any vector based program and not in Photoshop.
    You do need size versatility.\r\n\r\nBut for your scratch I would suggest you
    draw your own logo without any font, because you'll have to tweak it's vectors
    anyway and I can see the subtleties of these letters that give it a special character.\r\n\r\nAnd
    it shouldn't be too complicated. Based on your sketch. Quite squarish style with
    a bit \"fat\" strokes that look a bit pumped up.\r\n\r\nIf you know how to use
    Photoshop I suggest you try learning Illustrator for its similar UI. But before
    that read about the differences between bitmap and vector graphics to justify
    why you need to make it in vector based program."
  created: '2007-10-25 11:37:23'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "I agree with litera that it's probably best to design your logo from scratch,
    by drawing with a vector program.\r\n\r\nbut if you would like a typeface use
    as a springboard, check out [[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/itc/tetra-itc/book/|ITC
    Tetra]]"
  created: '2007-10-25 16:30:28'
- author:
    name: writingdesigning
    picture: 112522
  body: "\"but if you would like a typeface use ...\"\r\n\r\nOr probably one of Neville
    Brody's FF Gothics.\r\n\r\nBy the way, you might see if you'd like to push the
    idea a little further. This example may open up a possibility or two:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/beingandnothingness_5166.jpg]"
  created: '2007-10-25 16:59:29'
- author:
    name: writingdesigning
    picture: 112522
  body: By the way, that example was a crop of a piece of early work by Michael Beirut
    published recently in Design Observer.
  created: '2007-10-25 17:01:38'
- author:
    name: Tintin81
    picture: 112693
  body: "Hey,\r\n\r\nThanks for all your input. I think I'm going to design this logo
    in Illustrator, although I still haven't found a suitable font. ITC Tetra comes
    pretty close, but I'm sure there's an even better one out there. Can anybody help?\r\n\r\n[[http://www.designbits.de|Web
    & Logo Designer Hamburg]]"
  created: '2007-10-28 09:42:22'
- author:
    name: bart69
  body: "Hey, Nice idea. I found a font that was pretty close to what you want. It's
    called \"new Detroit\" \r\nHere's the link http://www.1001freefonts.com/ hope
    that helps. \r\nI always use Adobe illustrator for logo's . It's a vector program
    \ different from Photoshops rastor format. This way you can use it at any size
    and it will always remain the same. \r\nHave a great day."
  created: '2007-11-12 04:01:05'
- author:
    name: EileenB
  body: "\r\nbart69: I wouldn't click that link for all the free fonts in the world."
  created: '2007-11-12 04:18:56'
- author:
    name: johndiggity
    picture: 111461
  body: http://creativebits.org/
  created: '2007-11-12 18:58:56'
- author:
    name: paulsschwarz
    picture: 113501
  body: wow, such a nice idea, but you have the luxury of having a very simple base
    font, and simple but elegant detail around the second i, so surely you can afford
    to go a little wilder with your colours. personally i'd like to see the text in
    a rich blue with a subtle gradient effect in it to give depth, and then giving
    way to some really wacky fluoro pink/orange/lime around the i detail. if you choose
    your colours well it'll still have a strong masculine feeling, but really smart
    and modern too. please post your illustrator efforts, this one is exciting
  created: '2007-11-12 21:28:06'
- author:
    name: bart69
  body: Geez...I thought I was just being helpful. Forget it!!
  created: '2007-11-13 03:52:50'
- author:
    name: Tintin81
    picture: 112693
  body: "Hey, thanks for your input again. The New Detroit font is pretty close to
    what I'm looking for, so thanks bart69!! But still, I don't trust that site very
    much, so I'll probably go with another font (which I haven't found as yet...).
    By the way, I tried to design those fonts by hand, but it didn't come out very
    well. It seems I haven't got the Illustrator practice to get this done properly.
    I still like my initial idea though, and I hope I can post some new results here
    soon. In the meantime, if you find any other font that resembles the one in my
    first post, please let me know!!! Cheers...\r\n\r\n[[http://www.designbits.de|Web
    & Logo Designer Hamburg]]"
  created: '2007-11-16 17:38:16'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: why not make a face from your sketch?
  created: '2007-11-16 17:44:10'
- author:
    name: Tintin81
    picture: 112693
  body: "I tried that! But it's very very difficult (at least for me). The result
    I ended up with is not what I wanted...\r\n\r\n[[http://www.designbits.de|Web
    & Logo Designer Hamburg]]"
  created: '2007-11-16 23:26:33'
- author:
    name: bart69
  body: "hello again. Good Luck with your design. I am pretty good at Illustrator
    and if you need any pointers don't hesitate to ask. \r\n By the way...I'm pretty
    new to this site. I guess I just got the jist of what goes on here. Being an artist
    myself I try and design everything I can by hand and sheer talent. I do  understand
    that some of the font sites out there may not be trustworthy. I will look again
    and try to help where can. Type is not my strong point so I am too looking to
    get a little education by come here as well. \r\nHappy thanksgiving to you all. "
  created: '2007-11-23 02:08:47'
- author:
    name: Trevor Curtis
    picture: 112648
  body: Have you seen [[http://creativebits.org/|these guys?]]
  created: '2007-12-13 00:21:41'
- author:
    name: Tintin81
    picture: 112693
  body: "Hey & thanks for your many comments & thoughts!\r\n\r\nSome of you have pointed
    out similarities to [[http://www.creativebits.org|CreativeBits]] and [[http://www.simplebits.com|SimpleBits]],
    however this wasn't my intention. It's just that my business name is very similar,
    hence there may be some similarities in the logo design as well. At least that's
    what I thought - until I had this idea:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dice_concept_3669.png]\r\n\r\nPlease
    let me know what could be improved. I know I shouldn't have used any colour in
    my first draft, but I thought it's useful to see what the shading on the dice
    looks like.\r\n\r\nThanks for any feedback.\r\n\r\n[[http://www.designbits.de|Web
    Design Hamburg]]"
  created: '2007-12-21 12:31:06'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Because you've separated the word into two shapes and two colors, I read it
    as Design BI TS now.
  created: '2007-12-21 18:12:43'
- author:
    name: writingdesigning
    picture: 112522
  body: "\"...but I thought it\u2019s useful to see what the shading on the dice looks
    like\"\r\n\r\nI'm not sure they look like dice. Seems somehow closer to alphabet
    blocks. And anyway why do you think dice may be appropriate for a web design company? "
  created: '2007-12-22 04:17:52'
- author:
    name: Tintin81
    picture: 112693
  body: "I shouldn't have used the term \"dice\" as it may have confused you. In fact,
    what I'm aiming at is \"bits\", which of course is much harder to illustrate.
    To be honest, I am quite happy with the idea and think I will go through with
    it. However, the implementation still needs a lot of work. Merry Christmas to
    you all...\r\n\r\n[[http://www.designbits.de|Web Design Hamburg]]"
  created: '2007-12-23 22:14:50'
- author:
    name: Tintin81
    picture: 112693
  body: "How about this?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/box_logo_6358.png]\r\n\r\n[[http://www.designbits.de|Web
    Design Hamburg]]"
  created: '2007-12-28 14:37:51'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "What face is that? Has a definite Officina feel. A few years ago I would
    have found it tacky as the face had been overdone so much during the first dot
    com bubble, but I now realize I kind of miss it. Looks nice.\r\n\r\nAs for this
    version, I'd try playing with the proportions a bit. First, between the 'bits'
    and the boxes they are on, and then between the boxes and the word 'design'. \r\n\r\nSecondly,
    do you need a gap between the blocks? It's still reading as Bi ts.\r\n\r\nFinally,
    maybe try going with a small-cap face for the BITS part set at the same size as
    the x-height of 'design' (which would be the default if you happen to have a true
    small caps version of this typeface). That will 'square them up' on the faces
    of the blocks and (I think) balance things out better."
  created: '2007-12-28 16:15:07'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'It is still reading as BI TS ... '
  created: '2007-12-28 16:44:10'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Join the pixel boxes up as real pixels / bits appear on screen. \"real pixels\"?
    Sure, put money on it. My friend Amanda reckons the colors are wonderful. Would
    you consider coloring one face of each box with a \"colder\" hue? The way an anime
    art director would do it. That way you could get indigo and magenta in.\r\n\r\nAlso
    try: a uniheight font, to reinforce the theme of bits or quanta, all the same
    size. If only Panoptica came in officina guise.\r\n\r\n\"mew\"\r\n\r\nj a m e
    s"
  created: '2007-12-28 20:51:09'
- author:
    name: Tintin81
    picture: 112693
  body: "The font I used in the previous version is \"FF Info\". Unfortunately, it's
    not available in Small-Caps... But Officina is, and looks even better than FF
    Info if you ask me. What do you think? I still wonder if people can read the term
    \"Bits\" and don't read \"BI TS\" as Tiffany pointed out. \r\n\r\n@alumium: The
    Small-Caps idea is priceless; thanks a lot!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/box_logo_3990.png]\r\n\r\n\r\n[[http://www.designbits.de|Designer
    Hamburg]]"
  created: '2007-12-30 17:05:12'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "The smallcaps is a big improvement. Is it possible to eliminate the gap in
    between the boxes and still have good spacing for \"BITS\"?\r\n\r\n<em>What do
    you think?</em>\r\n\r\nI think it's fantastic. Words that spring to mind:\r\nsmart\r\nsophisticated\r\n\"modern\"\r\n\"post-modern\"\r\nclever\r\ncery
    cool logo, sir\r\ndiscreet\r\nstylish\r\ninventive\r\nprofessional\r\nhumanized
    high tech\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-31 02:08:37'
- author:
    name: deuxpoint
    picture: 113888
  body: "Interesting evolution here!\r\n\r\n\r\nBut I must say... I really really
    like the very first logo sketch! The one with the \"it\" of \"bits\" are in pixels!
    It was a nice integration of concept I think! :)\r\n\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------:\r\nJean
    Chouinard (formerly emerjean on Typophile)"
  created: '2007-12-31 07:51:53'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "You seem reluctant to have the boxes touch. Why?\r\n\r\nGive in to our whims...post
    one with them touching. ;o)"
  created: '2007-12-31 15:36:50'
- author:
    name: Tintin81
    picture: 112693
  body: "@ James: Thanks for your kind words :-)\r\n\r\n@alumium: OK, I did it! That's
    one small step for man...\r\n\r\nWhat do you think is better, a small gap or no
    gap at all?\r\nDo you think I should even try some gradients on the boxes?\r\n\r\nHappy
    New Year to you all!! (Only 7 hours left here...)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/box_logo_touching_4894.png]\r\n\r\n[[http://www.designbits.de|Designer
    Hamburg]]"
  created: '2007-12-31 16:10:53'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "No gap at all is most desirable. Relieved to see the spacing of BITS works
    out okay---I thought that's what was holding back the move.\r\n\r\nTry some gradients
    on the box sides and see how it looks. An alternative to gradients is color design.
    I have taken the liberty of doing some coloring to show my earlier idea. Hope
    you don't mind Timo. The dark faces have hue-shifted colors, the idea being that
    color has weight and light has temperture, and the combined effect is \"cooler\"
    hues in shadowed areas.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bitsbaby_3540.gif]\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-31 19:43:56'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I think James' idea works well...instead of 'darkening' the back side, try
    a different tone. \r\n\r\nAnd yea, no gap works best, as it'll be impossible to
    discern the small gap at small sizes."
  created: '2007-12-31 20:21:41'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Coloring it that way makes it polished. A finishing touch, imparting a degree
    of realism. Cleverness.\r\n\r\nHey Darrel that was a very fine idea of yours to
    use smallcaps. Great result. I was thinking along the same lines, of letterforms
    that occupy a square footprint. Nick Shinn's Panoptica and my own Amity font are
    good examples (but not the right style for this logo), something where the letters
    are of equal width and \"uniheight\".\r\n\r\nGents, laydees, I drink to your good
    health and marvellous typographic companionship. I love it when a plan comes together
    :^)\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-01 06:05:41'
- author:
    name: Tintin81
    picture: 112693
  body: "Hey James,\r\n\r\nExcellent idea, thanks. The only problem is that I picked
    the 4 colours from a colour scheme at [[http://wellstyled.com/tools/colorscheme2/index-en.html|Wellstyled.com]].
    In other words, I had planned to build my entire new website around that colour
    scheme. (Enter #cc6600 for colour, then select \"Contrast\" to see the colour
    scheme I picked).\r\n\r\nBut I agree that your version looks slightly more realistic.
    Can you tell me how you selected the colours? Did you use any sort of tools for
    this or just randomly picked colours that you thought would work well? Also, I
    don't see any change on the orange box. Did you make any?\r\n\r\n[[http://www.designbits.de|Designer
    Hamburg]]"
  created: '2008-01-01 15:06:48'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "I \"randonly\" picked colors by eye. I laid a red color over the orange box
    face on one layer, and a magenta color over the blue box face on another layer,
    then blended each color layer at about 70% by Hue.\r\n\r\nThsi animation shows
    the differences.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bitsanim_4022.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    change you see in the white background on the right is a compression artefact.
    Ignore.\r\n\r\nThere is a change on the orange box. It becomes closer to red.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bitscolors_6617.gif]\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-01 18:58:24'
- author:
    name: Tintin81
    picture: 112693
  body: "Hi James,\r\n\r\nThis is really nice, thanks. It took me a few minutes to
    realise that this is indeed an animation and not just an image!! The colour difference
    is just too subtle. \"Your\" version is better than my initial one though and
    I am probably going to stick with it. I am currently working on a new portfolio
    website and *might* have to change the colour scheme again, but I think I've learned
    my lesson on \"colour theory\". So thanks a lot for your help! I may post here
    again in a few days/weeks... Bye for now.\r\n\r\n[[http://www.designbits.de|Designer
    Hamburg]]"
  created: '2008-01-02 23:00:21'
- author:
    name: Tintin81
    picture: 112693
  body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nit's me again. The good news first: I'm still very happy with
    my company logo. I think this is the sort of logo you can keep for years and years
    without having to do too many adjustments.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo_large_5143.png]\r\n\r\nHowever,
    on my new website (currently in development) the logo will be THE focus of attention,
    if not the central element of the page. For that purpose, I want to beef it up
    a little using subtle reflections and lighting effects as seen here: [img:sites/default/files/old-images/31_6730.png]\r\n\r\nCan
    anybody suggest ways on how to add those effects to my logo? Do you normally use
    Illustrator for this? I have the latest version, but it's quite hard to achieve
    lighting & gradient effects with. Maybe someone can recommend a good tutorial?
    Any input is highly appreciated. Cheers...\r\n\r\n[[http://www.designbits.de|Designer
    Hamburg]]"
  created: '2008-01-29 19:16:45'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: 'That does look vector. I got into Illustrator (3.0) with a book titled <cite>The
    Verbum Book of Postscript Illustration</cite>. ISBN 1-55851-089-3. It has great
    tutorials and simple illustrations. It was published in 1990 so it won''t apply
    as much to current versions, but the exercises are really great. '
  created: '2008-01-29 19:53:08'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: MAYBE add a very slight gradient, but I wouldn't go much beyond that in terms
    of lighting effects.
  created: '2008-01-29 19:58:01'
- author:
    name: Tintin81
    picture: 112693
  body: "Hi, \r\n\r\nDo you think this gradient is subtle enough?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo_shading_5712.png]\r\n\r\n[[http://www.designbits.de|Designer
    Hamburg]]"
  created: '2008-01-30 22:06:55'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "I would make it subtler. The higlight is fairly bright there. Try to make
    the gradient more even. It only really kicks in there at the last moment.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-31 07:26:30'
- author:
    name: Tintin81
    picture: 112693
  body: "James, you were right (as usual). The more subtle the gradient, the better
    the final result. \r\n\r\nI am using only two gradients here (one on the \"B\",
    the other on the \"T\"). Do you think I need gradients on the \"I\" and \"S\"
    sides as well?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo_shading_3503.png]\r\n\r\n[[http://www.designbits.de|Designer
    Hamburg]]"
  created: '2008-01-31 11:07:41'
- author:
    name: Tintin81
    picture: 112693
  body: "OK, this would be version 2, with even more shading applied (on the \"I\"
    and \"S\" sides). Not sure which one is better. I've been staring at this way
    too long.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo_shading2_3760.png]\r\n\r\n[[http://www.designbits.de|Web
    Design Hamburg]]\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-31 12:05:38'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Both versions work equally well Timo, but I think you should try to keep
    it as simple as you can, so the first one with the gradient on just B and T. The
    gradients give the design a lift and work as a finishing touch. Just that little
    bit extra, that's all anyone can reasonably expect.\r\n\r\nI give this logo five
    stars out of a possible five stars. I prefer the orange and blue to the purple
    and blue, but that's a personal preference so ignore it.\r\n\r\nGreat job!\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-02-02 19:52:38'
- body: 'I agree with James, especially on the colors. The purple and blue begins
    to evoke preschool letter blocks. I like the strength and contrast of the orange
    and blue. '
  created: '2008-02-02 22:02:13'
date: '2007-10-25 11:04:54'
title: Web Design Business Logo

---
