---
author:
  name: Nick Sherman
  picture: 112002
body: "Here's a trivial but interesting semantic survey question:\r\nUsually just
  writing \"sans\" is enough to get the idea across of a serif-less typeface, but
  when using the \"-serif\" suffix, do you prefer:\r\n<ol><li>\"sans serif\" (as it
  is in the Oxford English Dictionary)</li>\r\n<li>\"sans-serif\" (as it is on Wikipedia)</li>\r\n<li>\"sanserif\"
  (as spelled by Robert Bringhurst)</li>\r\n<li>something else?</li></ol>"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I prefer sanserif. That\u2019s how James Mosely spells it, and if there\u2019s
    an authority on the matter, it\u2019s him. But...I have a professor who likes
    to point out that on this side of the pond we don\u2019t use spellings like \u201Ccolour\u201D
    or \u201Chonour\u201D, and that sans serif is the American spelling. "
  created: '2007-10-26 19:06:14'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "1. yes\r\n2. no, the hyphen is dying\r\n3. silly, would love to know where
    Bringhurst pulled this from"
  created: '2007-10-26 19:07:33'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Ahh, well, thanks to James, now I know of at least one more source for "sanserif".
    But it seems a strange way to go. It's not "san serif". If you wanted to combine
    the two words, wouldn't it be "sansserif"? Otherwise, it sounds like a gimmicky
    brand name.
  created: '2007-10-26 19:12:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Sherman
    picture: 112002
  body: Yes, it's interesting because if I spell it the way I say it, it would be
    more like "sanserif", but as far as semantics goes that seems slightly off. I
    suppose that's not unusual though, as far as the evolution of English is concerned.
  created: '2007-10-26 19:19:41'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: I would use 1 as a predicate ("That typeface is sans serif"), but 2 as an
    attribute ("That's a sans-serif typeface"). 3 is simply an abomination.
  created: '2007-10-26 19:20:42'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "\"if I spell it the way I say it\"\r\n\r\nThen you're pronouncing it wrong.
    ;)"
  created: '2007-10-26 19:23:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I generally use \"sans serif\".\r\n\r\nIs it necessary to be consistent with
    \"old style\", \"type face\" and \"slab serif\"? \r\n\r\nThere seems to be room
    for personal style. Bringhurst appears to favour fully-fused words such as \"lowercase\",
    but draws the line at \"smallcaps\". "
  created: '2007-10-26 19:27:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Sherman
    picture: 112002
  body: "The thing about \"lowercase\" is that \"lower\" ends with a different letter
    than \"case\" begins with, so it doesn't feel as weird as \"sansserif\" would.
    I'm guessing that's the main reason Bringhurst only had one s in the middle \u2013
    simply because it felt weird.\r\n\r\nInterestingly enough, I read his book multiple
    times and never once stopped to think \"'sanserif' feels wrong\"."
  created: '2007-10-26 19:29:21'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: Sans serif please. It's French dudes, have you heard of it? And this 'san
    serif' or 'sanserif' is really an abomination. Yes the last s in sans is silent,
    but the spelling remains sans.
  created: '2007-10-26 19:31:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Sherman
    picture: 112002
  body: I also considered the French base of the term... but could you not say now
    that it is also an English term, much as "cuisine" or "genre" have been adopted?
    And if so, do the two languages need to follow the same rules for their respective
    forms of the term?
  created: '2007-10-26 19:38:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Sherman
    picture: 112002
  body: This reminds me of the Mitch Hedberg joke where he pleads that "it's time
    to embrace the contraction". :)
  created: '2007-10-26 19:53:47'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Call them (typefaces sans serifs) <strong>linear</strong> and we can kiss
    the French term goodbye. So many contemporary \"sans serif\" fonts have curls
    standing in place of serifs, and some really do have serifs. The game has moved
    on since \"sans serif\" was coined. Shouldn't we be keeping pace?\r\n\r\n\"sans
    serif\" is outmoded no matter how you spell it.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-10-26 19:57:44'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: San Serif in Italian means Saint Serif, he was tortured with grotesque methods.
  created: '2007-10-26 20:01:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'See [[http://www.typophile.com/node/30811|this thread]] for discussion of
    the history of the term. '
  created: '2007-10-26 20:03:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Sherman
    picture: 112002
  body: "As I continue to think about it, this tendency for people to want to contract
    the two words is because we (or at least those of us who primarily  speak English)
    don't think of the term as two separate words, but more as one cohesive concept.
    When we (or at least when I) say \"sans serif\", I am not necessarily thinking
    of the direct translation of \"without serif\". The \"sans\" part, despite it's
    origin, is not a modifier of the \"serif\" part; they are just one concept to
    me.\r\n\r\nThis is also why most people just say \"sans\" so often, and then so
    many people understand it. In French, it makes no sense.\r\nWords like \"tomorrow\",
    \"whatsoever\", etc (even \"et cetera\" is acceptable as \"etcetera\"), are other
    examples of similar terms which were melded together conceptually and eventually
    also in their spelling. It seems like hyphenated versions come first before the
    terms eventually just melt into one solid word.\r\n\r\nI'm just trying to think
    of similar terms which were melted into a solid word, and dropped a letter in
    the process due to repetition."
  created: '2007-10-26 20:16:56'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i'm afraid i'm a bit schizophrenic in my spelling of this, most times i try
    to spell it out "sans serif" as there seems to be no contest about the correctness
    of this spelling, but i would definately prefer "sanserif" as it reflects modern
    usage.
  created: '2007-10-26 20:26:20'
- author:
    name: nert
    picture: 113219
  body: "Not that it really adds anything new here, but:\r\n\r\n<strong>sanserif</strong>
    printing type without serifs. XIX. prob. f. SANS+SERIF\r\n\r\n<em>The Concise
    Oxford Dictionary of Etymology, 1986</em>\r\n\r\nLike I said... :)"
  created: '2007-10-26 20:45:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>It\u2019s French dudes,</em>\r\n\r\nBut the term was coined by Brits
    who liked to Anglicise their Fran\xE7ais, e.g. pronouncing type sizes Bourgeois
    as \"Burgess\" and Non-Pareil as \"Numpree\". (Was Minion \"Minny 'un\" or \"Min-yun\"?)
    Hmm, this thread is giving me a feeling of d\xE9j\xE0 vu all over again... pretty
    soon will discussing how to say Univers."
  created: '2007-10-26 21:25:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Sherman
    picture: 112002
  body: "I'm probably in the same boat as Paul on this one... \"sans serif\" is the
    traditional way to do it, but \"sanserif\" actually makes more sense to me from
    a modern semantic standpoint.\r\n\r\nI also agree with James that the entire term
    is a bit of a misnomer if translated literally. I don't know if I'm progressive
    enough to abandon it altogether though. It seems more likely that the English
    form of the term \u2013 if it hasn't done so already \u2013 will take on a new
    meaning which is related but different to its direct translation (more accepting
    of quasi-serifs and such). This kind of evolution is nothing new (eg: in French,
    \"cuisine\" = \"kitchen\", \"matin\xE9e\" = \"morning\", etc).\r\n\r\nMaybe it
    <em>is</em> time to embrace the contraction.\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-26 21:37:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Sherman
    picture: 112002
  body: "\u2026Or maybe use \"sans serif\" as a direct translation, and \"sanserif\"
    in an evolved contemporary context? \r\n\r\nThose two often overlap though\u2026
    I'm thinking way too hard about this :)"
  created: '2007-10-26 21:41:19'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Well, I say and write it as 'sans serif', because I do see 'sans' as a modifier
    to 'serif'. Because, well, it is? Maybe something like we have in Dutch would
    be easy, we call them 'schreefloos', which (directly) translates to 'serifless'.
    Although that sounds kind of cheesy in English.\r\n\r\nSaying that it should be
    'sanserif' because of pronounciation, doesn't sound very logical to me. Aren't
    there a lot of English words which, by that morale, would need to get a similar
    treatment? But then again, I'm not a native English speaker, so what do I know?
    ;)"
  created: '2007-10-26 23:39:30'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: sans serif, from the French. sanserif seems very awkward to me.
  created: '2007-10-27 00:51:07'
- author:
    name: Brad K.
    picture: 113443
  body: "sans serif - Microsoft and the W3C use the term this way in Cascading Style
    Sheets in default type-family specifications.  That is a *lot* of distributions
    of that particular usage.\r\n\r\nI have no more problem using 'sans serif' as
    a two word noun, than in, say 'Zapf Chancery', and for about the same reason.
    \ I think of the single thought, and just learned to write it with a space in
    there.\r\n\r\nEnjoy!"
  created: '2007-10-27 00:51:52'
- author:
    name: Bera
    picture: 113438
  body: "Well, I just happened to find these very interesting paragraphs today on
    the  Typefoundry blog:\r\n\r\nI said above that \u2018sanserif\u2019 was a mistake
    on the part of the OED. The headword \u2018Sanserif\u2019 in the original dictionary
    was quoted from a Figgins type specimen dated 1830, the only known copy of which
    just happened to be in the library at the University Press in Oxford, the printer
    of the dictionary. But when I checked the name in the specimen (which is now in
    the Bodleian library) I found it was SANS-SERIF. In the dictionary the quotation
    from the Figgins specimen has \u2018San-\u2019 and \u2018Serif\u2019 at the end
    and beginning of two successive lines, the \u2018s\u2019 of \u2018Sans\u2019 having
    been lost. When they wrote the headword the editors perhaps read the hyphen as
    a word-break and deleted it.\r\n\r\nSo the term \u2018sanserif\u2019 should not
    have existed. Except that, curiously, it did. The OED has a few later quotations
    showing this spelling, long before the \u2018S\u2019 volume of the dictionary
    was published. And by using it myself I suppose I have added a bit of legitimacy.\r\n\r\n\r\nYou
    can find the complete post here:\r\n\r\n06 January, 2007\r\nThe Nymph and the
    Grot, an update \r\nhttp://typefoundry.blogspot.com/2007_01_01_archive.html\r\n\r\n\r\nBera"
  created: '2007-10-27 01:56:19'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I'm old-school - I write "sans-surryphs."
  created: '2007-10-27 05:34:42'
- author:
    name: nert
    picture: 113219
  body: "Just to widen things a little, this passage is directly lifted from <em>Who
    Shot the Serif?</em> on [[http://www.ilovetypography.com|I Love Typography]].\r\n\r\n<em>So
    why the word \u201Cserif\u201D? Well, it\u2019s commonly held that the origin
    of the humble serif can be traced back to ancient Rome. Before an Inscription
    was carved into stone the letters were first painted on. Anyone who has tried
    painting letters will know that one is left with slightly wider sections at the
    ends of the brush-strokes. The stone carvers would then faithfully carve out the
    letters including the flares at the end of the strokes\u2009\u2014\u2009thus was
    born the serif.\r\n\r\nHowever, it looks as though no-one knows much about the
    etymology of the word \u201Cserif\u201D; some say that it comes from the Dutch
    schreef, meaning \u201Cwrote\u201D, while other sources say the term \u201Csanserif\u201D
    actually pre-dates serif, so that sanserif on its own simply meant without serif
    (though that begs the question, where did the word sanserif originate?).</em>"
  created: '2007-10-27 08:16:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Sherman
    picture: 112002
  body: "\u2026<cite>while other sources say the term \u201Csanserif\u201D actually
    pre-dates serif</cite>\u2026\r\n\r\nI wonder what those other sources are. Any
    idea?"
  created: '2007-10-27 08:31:17'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>sanserif seems very awkward to me.</em>\r\n\r\nMe too.\r\n\r\n<em>Maybe
    it is time to embrace the contraction.</em>\r\n\r\nMaybe it is.\r\n\r\n<em>4.
    something else?</em>\r\n\r\nSay it with an apostrophe: <strong>san'serif</strong>\r\n\r\nI
    still think \"linear\" makes \"sans serif\" look pretty wankshaft.\r\n\r\nj a
    m e s"
  created: '2007-10-27 09:35:37'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "Alessandro: regarding San Serif are you aware of <a href=\"http://sanserif.org/\">this</a>?
    \r\n\r\nMe? I have a fictional friend in Japan, Serif-san from Osaka."
  created: '2007-10-27 11:08:27'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Some contributors to this thread think that the compound word \"sans serif\"
    was French, but this is not correct.\r\n\r\nWhile, of course, the word \"sans\"
    (= without) alone was and still is a French word, neither the word \"serif\" alone
    nor the combined compound word \"sans serif\" (and its variant spelling \"sanserif\")
    were used in French in the past.\r\n\r\nFor example, Philippe Schuwer's \"Dictionnaire
    de l'\xE9dition\" (Paris 1977) translates the English expression \"Sans serif
    / Sanserif\" into the French expression \"Sans empattement (e.g. caract\xE8re
    sans empattement).\" (And the class of sans serif type faces is called \"les lin\xE9ales\"
    in French.)\r\n\r\nAs mentioned above by Mr. Geertsma from The Netherlands, the
    Dutch use the word \"schreef\", and the Germans use the word \"Schraffe\", and
    it is assumed (though not fully proved) by etymologists that \"serif\" is a word
    of Germanic (i.e. NOT of Romanic) origin, cognate with Dutch \"schreef\" and German
    \"Schraffe\".\r\n\r\nThe French formerly did not use \"sans serif\", but used
    \"sans empattement\". But nowadays, on French Internet font websites, the French
    also use the English expression \"sans serif\".)\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-27 12:30:48'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Wankshaft.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-10-27 13:47:43'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "James Arboghast:\r\n\r\n> Wankshaft.\r\n\r\nIf you hadn't wanked off your
    bizarre wanky statement\r\n\r\n\"We can kiss the <strong>French term</strong>
    goodbye\"\r\n\r\nthere would be no need to correct your wanky statement.\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-27 14:46:52'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "We dutch say \"schreefloos\"; literal trad.: <strong>serifless</strong>.
    Why not adapt that? ; )\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2007-10-27 15:27:16'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: I try to use the word sans at least once daily. As in, "I'll have a tuna sandwich,
    sans the pickles." and "A motorcycle commute is sans traffic."
  created: '2007-10-29 05:02:46'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "There is <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sans_Souci\">Sans Souci,
    Sans-Souci and Sanssouci</a>, guess what \u2013 even a <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/San_Souci\">San
    Souci</a> exists \u2026 So, let your serif sorrows go.\r\n\r\nCareless, F ;\xB0)"
  created: '2007-10-29 07:31:27'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Echolalia and logorrhea addicts rejoice at this \"etymology\" of\r\n\r\n<strong>Sans-krit</strong>\r\n\r\nsans
    = without\r\n\r\nkrit = criticism\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2007-10-29 08:07:47'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "And not to forget the most ingenious \"typographic\" <a href=\"http://sindelaar.blogspot.com/2005/10/les-sms-de-voltaire-et-frdric-ii.html\">dialogue
    between Friedrich of Prussia and Voltaire</a>.\r\nSorry, requires some knowledge
    of French to understand."
  created: '2007-10-29 14:34:21'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Haha, saw that one in school and forgot about it \u2026 thanks for the reminder,
    Tim, great!"
  created: '2007-10-29 15:03:39'
- author:
    name: Vertex
    picture: 112106
  body: "Extract from the Etymology Dictionary:\r\n\r\nsans serif\r\n\r\n1830, from
    French sans \"without\" (from Old French., from Vulgar Latin *sene, from Latin
    sine, from si ne \"if not,\" + adverbial genitive) + Eng. serif, from earlier
    ceref, perhaps from Dutch schreef \"a line, a stroke,\" from schrijven \"to write,\"
    from Latin scribere. Short form sans recorded from 1927.\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-29 15:36:27'
- author:
    name: BruceS63
    picture: 111542
  body: "I usually say \"thingies\" and \"no thingies.\"  ;)   \r\n\r\nI vote for
    \"sans serif.\""
  created: '2007-10-29 17:55:13'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "In 1832, the London type firm Thorowgood referred its sans serif types as
    \"Grotesque\" (according to J. Tshchichold's <cite>Asymmetric Typography</cite>,
    copyright 1935). Tschichold says that by grotesque Thorowgood implied \"extraordinary.\"
    However, today's Oxford dictionary gives only the expected definition of [[http://www.askoxford.com/concise_oed/grotesque?view=uk|grotesque]].
    As a type-loving fellow, I like to remember that someone once considered sans
    serif types to be grotesque. And grotesque is a much more interesting term than
    sans serif. Therefore, I spell sans serif g-r-o-t-e-s-q-u-e.\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-29 18:48:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Do you know this one Tim?\r\n\r\nWood\r\nJohn\r\nKent"
  created: '2007-10-29 18:55:18'
- author:
    name: David Sudweeks
    picture: 112594
  body: "\"Can a waistband change the way men buy pants? Few people thought it possible,
    but that is just what happened in 1959 when Jaymar-Ruby introduced the patented
    <em>Sansabelt</em> waistband. Its unique triple zone, triple-action elastic webbing
    finally offered men everywhere the style they wanted and the comfort they craved.\"\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-29 19:51:12'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: Nick, that's a tricky one. Something like John Underwood, Kent? Or John would
    but he can't?
  created: '2007-10-29 22:21:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's an address.\r\nJohn Underwood, Andover, Kent."
  created: '2007-10-29 22:36:31'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I bet there is a flummoxed postman in Kent and a pile of undelivered mail
    for Mr. Underwood.\r\n\r\nSansabelt, love it. I totally forgot about them. Maybe
    they are popular in Zanzibar, where I suppose you can't get a drink (sans-a-bar)."
  created: '2007-10-29 23:23:14'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Sansa?
  created: '2007-10-30 01:37:58'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Gregor Samsa? Are talking cockroaches now?
  created: '2007-10-30 04:01:26'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Sansfloccinaucinihilipilification (Titin Snas) :\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/38731"
  created: '2007-11-02 10:40:07'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "This side of the pond, Nick, it's Andover Main ;)\r\nR"
  created: '2007-11-02 19:41:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Well I did want to give Tim a fighting chance at figuring it out!
  created: '2007-11-02 19:56:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Sherman
    picture: 112002
  body: "Here's an interesting artifact that is related to this discussion:\r\n<a
    href=http://www.flickr.com/photos/giofuga/1903718641/in/photostream/ target=_blank>A
    1938 specimen of \"Gill Sanserif\"</a>"
  created: '2007-11-07 19:02:19'
- author:
    name: Luis Siquot
    picture: 109822
  body: "Why not simply SANS, to be short?\r\nSanserif, mmmm"
  created: '2011-11-30 02:02:21'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I suppose we could call the typefaces in question \"lin\xE9ales\" instead
    of sans-serif."
  created: '2011-11-30 17:37:45'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "\u2014Why not just drop the 'serif' part... Sounds better... serif (with),
    Sans (without).\r\n\r\nN'est-ce pas\r\n\r\nIn typography, a sans-serif, sans serif,
    san serif or simply sans typeface is one that does not have the small projecting
    features called \"serifs\" at the end of strokes. The term comes from the French
    word sans, meaning \"without\"."
  created: '2011-12-16 03:13:25'
date: '2007-10-26 18:58:45'
title: the spelling of sans

---
