---
author:
  name: SuperUltraFabulous
  picture: 111522
body: "Any one here getting Leopard tonight?\r\n\r\nPlease report on all things typographic
  after you install the OS. Particularly, how does the iWork suite handle complex
  OpenType fonts and any other pertinent goodies.\r\n\r\nMikey :-)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: nmerriam
    picture: 109650
  body: "Font Book is massively improved, has auto-activation, and now fonts show
    previews right in the Finder (Abc text rendered in the font shows as the file
    icon)! You can use the new Quick Look feature on font files, too -- just select
    a file in the Finder, hit the space bar, and a window pops up instantly to show
    you the whole character set of that font! I'm going to have to rethink my whole
    management strategy, I think for a lot of people apps like FontExplorer will no
    longer be necessary. I haven't tested it extensively, of course, so once the gloss
    wears off there will surely be shortcomings I don't notice. But in terms of type,
    Leopard is a winner without a doubt.\r\n\r\nLeopard is a fantastic upgrade, the
    Finder in general is improved in so many ways. Time Machine really is as good
    as it sounds -- after years of using various unix tools to get compact, differential
    versioned backups, it's built into the system now with one click. it's fast, space
    efficient, and very well-designed in terms of how it lays out the backup files.
    Pretty much the best functionality of all the different unix backup utilities,
    the only drawbacks seeming to be the limited support of backup destinations and
    the minimalist configuration interface. Tying in rsync and some spotlight-powered
    inclusion/exclusion filters to Time Machine would create the ultimate desktop
    backup system.\r\n\r\nSpeed is good on my dual G5, the same or slightly better
    than Tiger was -- I'm sure on the intel systems it will be noticeable faster.
    This is, no bones about it, a fantastic OS release."
  created: '2007-10-27 00:48:40'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I'm gonna wait until they iron out the kinks. I never buy the first version.
  created: '2007-10-27 00:49:09'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Any specific kinks, Patty? Or just the ones you assume are hidden and waiting
    to be discovered?
  created: '2007-10-27 02:50:49'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "The latter. I'm looking forward to Leopard. Given I'm on 10.4.10 it's safe
    to say 10.5 will have a few bugs.\r\n\r\nWhat's next do you think - Ocelot? Cheetah?
    Lynx? I guess Cheetah would have to be fast."
  created: '2007-10-27 04:32:15'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I\u2019m waiting until Adobe gives the all-clear. I don\u2019t want to install
    this thing and suddenly find out that Indesign starts rounding picas off to the
    nearest sixth decimal place or something..."
  created: '2007-10-27 04:33:11'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>What\u2019s next do you think - Ocelot? Cheetah? Lynx? I guess Cheetah
    would have to be fast.</em>\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Felinae\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cheetah\">Cheetah</a> sounds impressive Patty.
    Aw they're so pretty. :^)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cheechee_6015.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    wonder about the comic potential of Hyena.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-10-27 05:15:24'
- author:
    name: brandons
    picture: 112606
  body: 'Another tiny but appreciated improvement to Font Book: Now when you select
    a type family, it displays the regular weight instead of just the first font in
    the list. Since that list is sorted alphabetically it used to display the black
    or bold variant by default.'
  created: '2007-10-27 05:34:30'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mac_OS_X\r\n\r\nCheetah was Mac OS 10.0. It
    was <em>painfully</em> slow on the G4/533Mhz I was using at the time. It lacked
    the \"Quartz Extreme\" acceleration introduced with 10.2, so all advanced graphics
    processing was handled by the (probably slow) CPU. I loved it because I could
    use a *nix system at work, but it was pretty sad overall. Most design apps were
    run in Classic, which at that point wasn't fully functional. If I remember correctly,
    the Chooser was buggy--and this was a time when I needed to use the Classic Chooser
    to select printers for Classic apps. The 10.1 upgrade was free, and Apple provided
    disks to any users who wanted them. In those days, the \"big cat\" code names
    weren't used in marketing materials, so it's no wonder that people aren't familiar
    with them. \r\n\r\nSpeaking as a fearless early adopter, I would have to say the
    10.5 upgrade was relatively smooth. I haven't experienced any major disasters
    so far..."
  created: '2007-10-27 07:14:57'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Waiting for the Lion King \u2026"
  created: '2007-10-27 11:30:21'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "Just bought it this morning. Am writing this in Leopard. It's fast! Preview,
    Textedit and Spotlight are insanely fast now, like really really fast. It really
    has that Steve Jobs 'BOM!' thing now. I'm on a Mac Pro 8-core beast, and before
    I had 10.4.10 Server running, and that did not have teh snappy.\r\n\r\nMore news
    as I explore further..."
  created: '2007-10-27 13:36:06'
- author:
    name: Gary Long
    picture: 112662
  body: I'm waiting for Cougar---runs natively in Canada
  created: '2007-10-27 19:25:17'
- author:
    name: George Thomas
  body: "Leopard is compatible with many of the Adobe apps (especially InDesign, Illustrator,
    PhotoShop) but there are many others in the Adobe product line. Acrobat Pro 8
    and Reader 8 are two that don't work and Adobe says they won't have an update
    for those until mid or late January.\r\n\r\nDownload a PDF document of their compatibility
    list at:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/go/leopardfaq"
  created: '2007-10-27 19:38:59'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Am writing this in Leopard.\r\n\r\n>I\u2019m on a Mac Pro 8-core beast,
    and before I had 10.4.10 Server running, and that did not have teh snappy.\r\n\r\nSpell
    checker not working then? ;-)"
  created: '2007-10-27 23:30:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I\u2019m waiting for Cougar\u2014-runs natively in Canada \r\n\r\nLOL, and
    in Eastern Washington! \r\n\r\nI'm waiting for \"Meer Cat\" to pop it\u2019s head
    out of a hole in Cupertino. :-)"
  created: '2007-10-27 23:33:04'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Well, reports are already popping up about some Leopard upgraders having
    boot times that last anywhere between several minutes and infinity. As wonderful
    as this new OS sounds, I\u2019ll hold off until at least Thanksgiving break, and
    maybe the long holiday before risking it. I just don\u2019t need to deal with
    any major OS/software headaches interrupting my senior thesis work."
  created: '2007-10-27 23:45:48'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Apple reports 6 new Font-related features in Leopard, including a few \"new\"
    fonts:\r\nhttp://www.apple.com/macosx/features/300.html#fonts"
  created: '2007-10-28 05:13:25'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: With this new auto-activation that Fontbook has . . . Is there any way to
    disable it?
  created: '2007-10-28 05:54:14'
- author:
    name: ryanholmes
  body: ">>With this new auto-activation that Fontbook has . . . Is there any way
    to disable it?<<\r\n\r\nWhy would you want to?\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-28 06:10:20'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Why? I'm a control freak. :^D\r\n\r\nSeriously, I do want to know if you
    can disable that feature. "
  created: '2007-10-28 06:49:42'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "I'm waiting on Mac OS X Pussy... \r\n\r\nOKAY FOR REALS: How does the os
    handle complex opentype fonts- complex contextual fonts like LT Zapfino Extra
    or Bickham Script? Do you have access to glyph alternates?\r\n\r\nHow does it
    perform in Pages or other non-Adobe apps? \r\n\r\nHow does the typography panel
    look? \r\n\r\nHave you noticed a difference in rendering of small text? Has the
    renderer improved?\r\n\r\nSOMEONE PLEASE POST AN IMAGE OF PAPYRUS CONDENSED. PURTY
    PLEASE :-) I want to get an early start poking fun of it or appreciating it.\r\n\r\nMikey
    :-)"
  created: '2007-10-28 08:14:32'
- author:
    name: axian
    picture: 110101
  body: "Upgraded few hours ago and have been testing it for various stuff.\r\n\r\nSo
    far this has been the smoothest OSX to date. Everything is faster in general.\r\n\r\nHere
    are few things font-related:\r\n\r\nThe Quicklook is really useful for previewing
    fonts before installing. In previous versions if you clicked on the font file
    you'd invoke FontBook which would display it's own preview. This one leaves FB
    alone and gives you the repertoire: \r\n\r\nhttp://img139.imageshack.us/img139/6286/40354017qn8.png\r\n\r\nIt
    also renders a thumbnail of each font's \"Ag\" and gives it that icon. This is
    sort of cool in CoverFlow, which is a good way to browse esoteric fonts.\r\n\r\nhttp://img457.imageshack.us/img457/3209/19474539gp6.png\r\n\r\nHelvetica
    Neue is now included with OSX. 55 has friends now.\r\n\r\nhttp://img134.imageshack.us/img134/3158/97858410pc6.png\r\n\r\nYou
    can print a fontbook directly from Font Book by select font + print. It formats
    the fonts and everything, but the information is lacking. There are better solutions
    out there like FontDoc and FontParade, but it's a good start for quick stuff.\r\n\r\nhttp://img134.imageshack.us/img134/9640/37052834zx6.png\r\n\r\nPer-application
    activation is a nice touch, but Linotype Font Explorer X does a better job and
    doesn't hog Font Book. It runs smoothly under Leopard."
  created: '2007-10-28 12:34:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am waiting for the first fix version that will surely follow in a couple
    of months as usual. I am still annoyed that the OpenType support has not been
    improved.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-10-28 15:08:24'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "<cite>Leopard is compatible with many of the Adobe apps (especially InDesign,
    Illustrator, PhotoShop) but there are many others in the Adobe product line. Acrobat
    Pro 8 and Reader 8 are two that don\u2019t work and Adobe says they won\u2019t
    have an update for those until mid or late January.\r\n\r\nDownload a PDF document
    of their compatibility list at:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/go/leopardfaq</cite>\r\n\r\nSeems
    like the bugs does not effect a running Creative Suite installation (from the
    PDF):\r\n\r\nAcrobat 8.1.1 Professional:\r\nStandalone trial version not available
    on Mac \r\nOS. Can update Acrobat in Design Premium, \r\nDesign Standard, Web
    Premium, and Master \r\nCollection when in trial mode. Update \r\nexpected in
    late January 2008.\r\n\r\nI can't find any bugs on Acrobat on Leopard bugs in
    www.adobe.com/go/support (?)\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-28 15:46:12'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Tiff - you can just disable Font Book. I really don't like it altho I am willing
    to give it another look when I upgrade eventually to Leopard if it's as improved
    as they say.
  created: '2007-10-28 16:01:53'
- author:
    name: Don Nelson
  body: "Opentype support seems to be somewhat improved based on my cursory testing:
    \ (I've just been testing with Pages which uses CoreText, I believe)\r\n\r\nI
    have an old copy of Adobe Garamond Pro OpenType that I could never use effectively
    because I don't have proper apps like InDesign.  In Pages, the Tiger typography
    panel never gave me any options with this font; now, with Leopard, I get (true)
    small caps, rare/historical ligatures, lining and old-style figures, contextual
    alternatives, swash caps, etc.  I could also add glyph variants from the character
    palette.\r\n\r\nZaner Super Pro Opentype also never worked well for me under Tiger,
    but the Pages typography panel under Leopard now offers stylistic and contextual
    alternatives (all worked) but I still couldn't add all of the glyphs from the
    character palette with this font. :(\r\n\r\nSo, Opentype support does not appear
    to be complete, but perhaps a tad better?\r\n\r\n-don\r\n\r\n\"There are 10 types
    of people in the world: those who can count in binary and those who can't.\""
  created: '2007-10-28 16:22:25'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Tony, thanks for sharing these insights \u2013 highly appreciated.\r\n\r\n<cite>Helvetica
    Neue is now included with OSX. 55 has friends now.</cite>\r\nI don\u2019t get
    that one \u2026 those 10 weights have been shipped with previous versions of OSX,
    no?\r\n "
  created: '2007-10-28 17:05:27'
- author:
    name: ndmike
    picture: 109528
  body: "I'm using an old 1.5 GHz PowerBook with 1 Gb of RAM and can attest that the
    whole thing is far snappier than Tiger. I'm surprised, since most system upgrades
    just add bloat. However, I'm happy to report that this cat seems really tightly
    engineered. It also seems to be handling virtual memory better, though I have
    yet to really test it out with Word, Photoshop and InDesign all running together.\r\n\r\nMy
    fave features so far: Spaces (I've got separate spaces for iCal, Mail, Surfing
    and Real Work\u2122) and QuickLook (damn brilliant!). Type looks crisper somehow;
    dunno if the antialiasing algorithms have been tweaked. I don't use Font Book,
    so I can't attest to how that is working, but the latest version of Suitcase Fusion
    seems to be working fine. (As does Photoshop CS2, so far).\r\n\r\nAlso, the new
    system voice, Alex, is quite charming. He even takes breaths before beginning
    a new sentence. Still, I can't quite get used to the translucent menu bar. It's
    growing on me...\r\n\r\nI've got a sample of Papyrus Condensed to post. But, the
    \"Insert image\" link doesn't seem to work in Safari 3.\r\n\r\n--m\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-10-29 01:11:06'
- author:
    name: ndmike
    picture: 109528
  body: '"Insert image" doesn''t seem to work in Firefox on Leopard either.'
  created: '2007-10-29 01:15:25'
- author:
    name: Kiolden
    picture: 113368
  body: "<cite>\r\nOpentype support seems to be somewhat improved based on my cursory
    testing: (I\u2019ve just been testing with Pages which uses CoreText, I believe)\r\netc.\r\n</cite>\r\nI
    played around with a Mac Book running 10.5 in an Apple store the other day for
    a couple minutes. It had some Adobe apps and included OT fonts installed so fiddled
    with Arno Pro in Pages. It didn't seem any different than in Tiger. Same options
    in typography panel and I couldn't insert glyph alternates via the character panel
    (I tested some swash caps I think). Why would different fonts behave differently
    as far as the same OT features are concerned?"
  created: '2007-10-29 01:38:09'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Hi guys:\r\n\r\nI went to the Apple Store Sunday. And I brought with me,
    DST's Estilo to evaluate the Leopard's opentype capabilities. First off, Pages
    nor TextEdit recognized the lowercase of the font. And <em>yes</em> I made sure
    the caps lock was off. I also could not substitute the character I wanted in Pages
    (just like now) but the shocker- in TextEdit too. In Tiger I can add any glyph
    I like even if it does not recognize it in TextEdit. But now both of those are
    dumb in Leopard.\r\n\r\nInterestingly, Bickham Script that comes with the Adobe
    Creative Suite installed on all the demo machines works just fine- in Pages and
    TextEdit. I added alternates with foreign accents and it worked okay for me. So
    I have no idea why the inconsistency. Perhaps the fonts are programmed differently?\r\n\r\nI
    also have Papyrus Condensed to show off:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture1_4055.png]\r\n\r\nMS
    sans:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture2_5744.png]\r\n\r\nThe renderer
    is different too.\r\n\r\na zoom of Papyrus condensed taken within FontBook in
    Leopard:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/papyruscondensedzoom_5773.png]\r\n\r\nA
    zoom of the old Papyrus from my Tiger machine:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Papyrusregularzoom_6574.png]\r\n\r\nMS
    Sans very zoomed:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mssanszoom_5337.png]\r\n\r\nBut
    here is an inconsistency:\r\n\r\nBickham Script within Pages in the new Leopard:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bickham_zoom_3580.png]\r\n\r\nNotice
    the grayscale anti-aliasing in Pages is not used in Font Book. Why? And Why use
    the colorized antialiasing period- it makes you blink. I think it's terrible.\r\n\r\nI
    tested Time Machine and I got it not to restore a bunch of iPhotos and apps I
    deleted- so no- I'm not impressed. In fact, I'm not overly impressed with anything.
    Even cover flow is not so hot. Font icon previews are really useless anyways.
    Ag is not very helpful.\r\n\r\nSpotlight on the other hand is very fast. Spaces
    looks useful. And that's about it...... \r\n\r\nMike Diaz ;-/"
  created: '2007-10-29 08:56:50'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: BTW... thank you guys for all your comments thus far.
  created: '2007-10-29 08:59:42'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "A nice (and very welcome) feature: In Finder select a fontfile, hit the spacebar
    and a full alphabet-showing pops up. What makes it very nice is that you can navigate
    in the Finder to other files (other fonts) and the display changes to a full viweing
    of the new selection. Makes it alot easier to find THAT font you want.\r\n\r\nMy
    Leopard update went almost hitchfree (just a printerdriver that needed reinstalling
    \u2014 darn Canon), and all the CS3 programs in the Design Edition work fine (cursory
    testing on my account \u2014 no warranty). \r\n\r\n. . . .\r\nBert Vanderveen
    BNO"
  created: '2007-10-29 13:24:45'
- author:
    name: BruceS63
    picture: 111542
  body: "Does anyone know if Leopard fixes the iMac crash/freeze issue? \r\n\r\nMy
    wife said she thinks there will eventually be a version of the OS called \"Feral.\""
  created: '2007-10-29 17:51:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Mike the rendering differences you''re seeing between Leopard and Tiger may
    be related to different preferences - best for LCD v best for CRT? Also Pages
    may switch off the Apple ClearType style rendering at large sizes and use a different
    technique - Word 2007 does this to minimize ClearType stepping at large sizes. '
  created: '2007-10-29 18:01:14'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Simon, I think you are right about the renderer as I do use a CRT at home
    and all the new mac use LCDs. I changed the appearance settings on tiger machine
    to strong and the effect was similar. Thanks for the correction.\r\n\r\nNow however,
    the text engine still needs improvement. I found that it actually regressed.\r\n\r\nMikey
    :-)"
  created: '2007-10-29 22:19:28'
- author:
    name: ndmike
    picture: 109528
  body: Adobe released a new version of Flash player today, which seems to fix the
    "Insert Image" bug. [[http://feeds.tuaw.com/~r/weblogsinc/tuaw/~3/178233689/|More
    information is here]]. Just be sure to uninstall your previous copy before upgrading.
  created: '2007-11-01 15:29:07'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "I don't know about you all, but the new Dock looks awful -- yechh. And...
    a translucent menu bar??? Huh? What's up, Apple? The interface looks like so much
    iCandy...\r\n\r\nhttp://arstechnica.com/reviews/os/mac-os-x-10-5.ars/4\r\n\r\nBleah!"
  created: '2007-11-02 06:17:19'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Totally agree, Ricardo. Fortunately, both missteps are easily fixed.
  created: '2007-11-02 06:22:06'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>What\u2019s next do you think - Ocelot? Cheetah? Lynx? I guess Cheetah
    would have to be fast.</em>\r\n\r\nI hate to sound pedantic, but Mac OS 10.0 was
    Cheetah:\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Mac_OS_X\r\n\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nMac
    OS X Public Beta \"Kodiak\"\r\nMac OS X v10.0 \"Cheetah\"\r\nMac OS X v10.1 \"Puma\"\r\nMac
    OS X v10.2 \"Jaguar\"\r\nMac OS X v10.3 \"Panther\"\r\nMac OS X v10.4 \"Tiger\"\r\nMac
    OS X v10.5 \"Leopard\"\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-02 06:22:45'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Fortunately, both missteps are easily fixed.</em>\r\n\r\nGood to know,
    Stephen. Thanx."
  created: '2007-11-02 06:24:57'
- author:
    name: ndmike
    picture: 109528
  body: "To get rid of the 3-D Dock, [[http://www.macosxhints.com/article.php?story=2007101815375480|see
    here]]. To make the menu bar white again, [[http://www.macosxhints.com/article.php?story=20071026065829864|see
    here]].\r\n\r\nBack in 2003, [[http://www.macrumors.com/2003/07/24/apple-trademarks-lynx-cougar-leopard-tiger-and-more/|when
    Apple trademarked]] \"Tiger\" and \"Leopard\" for use as marks for system software,
    they also trademarked \"Cougar\" and \"Lynx,\" so I'm sure those will be the next
    cats to lend their names to OS X."
  created: '2007-11-02 12:57:35'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "There are two simple ways to change the look of the Leopard dock to a non-\"3D\"
    style:\r\n\r\n1. Move the dock to the left or right side of the screen (Apple
    menu > Dock > Position on Left/Right), or\r\n\r\n2. Open Terminal and type:\r\n\r\n<code>\_\_\_defaults
    write com.apple.dock no-glass -boolean YES\r\n\r\n\_\_\_killall Dock</code>\r\n\r\nThe
    alternate dock is quite nice.\r\n\r\n(Oops--redundant post.)"
  created: '2007-11-02 13:16:17'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Thank you, Mark and Michael, for those tips.
  created: '2007-11-02 13:43:04'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Did Apple include Opentype versions of the new fonts, or are they still including
    .dfont and TrueType fonts?
  created: '2007-11-02 13:47:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Which new fonts? The fonts we licensed to them are OpenType (signed TrueType
    with OpenType Layout for combining diacritics and such)
  created: '2007-11-02 15:50:14'
date: '2007-10-27 00:14:33'
node_type: forum
title: Leopard?

---
