---
author:
  name: joshcrates
  picture: 113492
body: "written language is how human beings store and communicate information. it
  seems like there is no other way... i'm very interested in the radical directions
  typography could take in the near and distant future. are we always going to use
  glyph-based forms? how will type be presented in a world that is becoming more and
  more technologically-dependent? will text always exist? these are questions i ponder.\r\n\r\nin
  short,  i'm trying to build a bridge between technological progress/evolution and
  typography. i will also be contacting futurists/singulatarians and typographers
  as part of my research.\r\n\r\ni'm looking for feedback - opinions, thoughts, contacts,
  essays, lectures etc. i realize my sketch is  very broad. anything goes.\r\n\r\ni'm
  a young college student in my first year of graphic design, and i'm trying to collect
  an archive of information so i can build a conceptual font hybrid [as opposed to
  a purely aesthetic font]. i'm struggling with how i can <strong>visually</strong>
  manifest letterforms based on the concepts that interest me. as of now, i have found
  very little relative literature. blogs seem like a good alternative.\r\n\r\nwhatever
  you can offer will help, i assure you!\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Find a library that has issues of Emigre magazine and read them. Fuse magazine
    will be harder to find, but seems quite applicable here. You should also read
    Gerard Unger\u2019s book <em>While You\u2019re Reading</em>. It is not directly
    relevant and will not answer any of your questions, but it will give you a great
    foundation in understanding what type and reading are, and why they are what they
    are, which will make it easier to think about where it\u2019s all headed. Last,
    contact Nick Shinn about his essay <em>It\u2019s Hip to Be Square</em>. It\u2019s
    a great read about why traditional type designs will become less relevant and
    new type will be square."
  created: '2007-10-31 16:46:17'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Read the interesting comment posted by Mr William Berkson on the 19th of
    December, 2006, 1:08 PM, at :\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/30130"
  created: '2007-10-31 16:55:19'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: I still can't get over how novel/uncomfortable the [[http://www.kfons.com/|Kromofons]]
    concept is.
  created: '2007-10-31 17:53:19'
- author:
    name: Gemma Bayly
    picture: 113311
  body: "I highly suggest you absorb mr. Martin Venezy's written thoughts called \"Design
    and Melancholy.\" You can find this essay in his amazing book \"It is Beautiful
    ... Then Gone.\"  [ along with the most impressive hand-made typographic experiments
    I have ever seen. ]\r\n\r\nIn great depth and consideration, it ponders the simple
    moments of our lives when we find an arrangement of things, circumstances, interactions,
    and / or ideas that appear in a fleeting instance as perfectly designed \u2014
    as if beyond human capability \u2014 and then are just as quickly gone from our
    perceptions. Within that moment, pure beauty is realized in the simplest of forms
    and it is in this realization that we, as designers, can create the kind of conceptual
    wonders that you are aiming for. \r\n\r\nmartin's design studio can be found here
    :: [[http://www.appetiteengineers.com/| Appetite Engineers ]]"
  created: '2007-10-31 18:02:54'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Should check out Bill Hills thoughts on this subject... http://channel9.msdn.com/ShowPost.aspx?PostID=54978 '
  created: '2007-10-31 18:21:22'
- author:
    name: joshcrates
    picture: 113492
  body: "with regard to mr. berkson's commentary and opinions...\r\n\r\nIf typing
    in lowercase is an issue for the majority on this forum, I will gladly compromise.
    Let me clarify that I'm not looking for degradation or a \"flame war.\" I really
    do want feedback. This forum was recommended to me by a professor for research
    purposes - as a tool.\r\n\r\nI'm not asking anyone to do my \"homework\" for me.
    I'm  interested in thoughts, opinions and suggestions. I want to learn. I understand
    that at this venue in my career, I don't know as much about typography as a middle-aged
    individual who has dedicated their life to design.\r\n\r\nBack to the subject
    at hand...\r\n\r\nThanks in advance for any contributions, I really do appreciate
    it. I am in talks with the head of  \"special collections\" at my university library,
    which is also proving helpful. He is the only mentor I have right now, aside from
    my type instructor."
  created: '2007-10-31 18:25:54'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: Milwaukee...say hello to Max and what the heck is the name of that type instructor?
    Is it still the same guy from about 5 years ago...Richard something with a Z?...can't
    remember...say hello to him, if that's him, too. Thanks. Feel free to contact
    me through [[http://heavydutypress.com|my web site]] any time. I might not know
    much more than you do, but am always up for musing. Your big questions are fun
    to think about.
  created: '2007-10-31 18:51:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The opening chapter of David Consuegra's <em>American Type Design & Designers</em>
    (Allworth Press) provides an excellent time-line of the technological changes
    in typography, with related events.\r\n\r\nText usually seems to be at the vanguard
    of new media technology, due, I think, to the alphabet's low \"bit-rate\" of information
    required for meaningful communication. So although we may develop more sophisticated
    ways of communicating with existing technologies, as long as we are inventing
    new media it will depend on text from the outset. "
  created: '2007-10-31 19:02:32'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "Agreed. Call me limited, but I cannot imagine a more practical and efficient
    communication tool than the alphabet. I'd like to see English spelling become
    more phonetic and logical, but that would take one serious bit of house cleaning,
    and everyone would have to be on board...or maybe that's evolving right now in
    the world of instant messaging (something else I know nothing about!). Finding
    a way to incorporate and convey tone and tempo might be nice, seeing as that's
    what people tend to have problems with when communicating with strangers over
    emails and in discussions like this. So, like economics, think about what the
    demands are, or will be, and start the forecasting there.\r\n "
  created: '2007-10-31 19:35:08'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "In some ways text is more efficient than speech--more easily stored and searched,
    arguably easier to render decipherable--and in fact you can already see it encroaching
    on verbal communication. It might be an issue of not quite having reached the
    tipping point here, but why do people still use IM with the advent of things like
    Skype or other \"internet phone\" applications? \r\n\r\nThink: have you ever seen
    someone send a text message when they're perfectly free to call someone? Or seen
    someone shoot off an email when they could just shout over the cubicle wall? "
  created: '2007-10-31 19:46:24'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "Totally. It's a little freaky...to me it's even a little bit sad.\r\n\r\nEmail
    over talking has been a huge source of tension and ironic inefficiency in our
    work environment. Everyone more or less agrees, but no one can help themselves.
    But how else can one person communicate an idea with multiple recipients simultaneously?
    I think that's what drives the email use more than anything else. Or it's just
    because it's so easy and we're all inherently lazy. Or maybe we're all just pressed
    for time, or so we think. Is it fear? Do we all subconsciously feel like we are
    running out of time and therefore everything is incredibly urgent? Are we running
    out of time? Or is it the availability of technology that lends itself to extreme
    urgency driving our behavior? Is my computer an extension of me or am I an extension
    of it?\r\n\r\nWHO IN THE HELL IS STEERING THIS SHIP?!\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2007-10-31 20:11:40'
- author:
    name: joshcrates
    picture: 113492
  body: "I am guilty of using text messaging or email when verbal communication is
    a feasible option.\r\n\r\nThere are a lot of other variables that factor in to
    whether or not I want to make face-to-face contact with another person I suppose.
    My mood or demeanor towards that person often come into play, for example. Sometimes
    it is easier just to say something in a text message because you're less likely
    to strike up a \"conversation.\"\r\n\r\nOne can draw parallels between wireless
    communication and telepathy. This is how many computers are communicating today,
    right? So lets just say we begin merging our technology with the human body for
    the sake of \"efficiency\" (this is already happening on a small scale). If the
    biological computations of the human brain were to begin working more like a machine,
    how would this change human interaction and communication? What if we could communicate
    using only our minds without actually speaking?\r\n\r\nI can't imagine what this
    would look like. Would our brains tell us we're hearing speech, or would we visualize
    letterforms and text? Or... would it be something else?\r\n\r\nI apply this to
    typography as a craft and I get scatterbrained. Synaptic connections between two
    brains? What a mess.\r\n\r\nForgive me, my imagination poses a lot of questions.
    Just thoughts."
  created: '2007-10-31 20:32:17'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Text usually seems to be at the vanguard of new media technology, due,
    I think, to the alphabet\u2019s low \u201Cbit-rate\u201D of information required
    for meaningful communication.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s funny how little of the
    alphabet needs to be intact for it to remain legible, yet little needs to change
    to make people start ranting about how horrible some changes are. \r\n\r\nInterestingly,
    I have been told that Massismo Vignelli recently spoke at Parson\u2019s where
    he stated that Emigre magazine was the worst thing that ever happened to design.
    When the audience laughed he told them that they shouldn\u2019t laugh about Emigre;
    that they should cry over how horrible it was. Wim Crouwell was also there; it
    must have led to a pretty wild conversation. One of my professors is going to
    be sending notes from the session out soon, I\u2019ll be sure to post them..."
  created: '2007-10-31 21:46:40'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Joshua Paynter,\r\nI read you are a \"student (a.k.a. a clone),\" that suffers
    a bit from decay, considering you are not living on a desert island \u2014 do
    something to protect your letters, you don't want to read in others' mind that
    we are able to make houses any shapes we like.\r\nYour questions are good : look
    at the children, they are small, but they think big.\r\nI will never forget an
    old man at the boxe gym in Italy saying \"it was good to have that simple soup
    on war times...\"\r\nOn topic, I now finished this <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/comment/reply/34182/206213\">book</a>,
    it's excellent.\r\nRegards."
  created: '2007-10-31 21:59:56'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">On topic, I now finished this book, it\u2019s excellent.\r\n\r\nIt was a
    sad day when Scott left us. \r\n\r\nThe Moomin Books are great! I'm glad I have
    a six year old to read them too. "
  created: '2007-11-01 03:56:40'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "joshcrates\r\n\r\nCan I have you as a student! If only we could just pluck
    them up!!!\r\n\r\nGerald\r\n\r\nThe Bieler Press\r\nhttp://BielerPress.blogspot.com"
  created: '2007-11-01 05:59:26'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "I read about that, Simon, he also wrote it online, it seems he really wanted
    to write full time. Indeed, Joshua Paynter, another resource you would like to
    check out is Scott Berkun's <a href=\"http://www.scottberkun.com/essays/\">blog</a>.\r\nI'd
    love to be your student as well, Mr Gerald Lange \u2014 keep up the good mushrooms
    \u2014, you know, in the dialect of my hometown, \"f\xF6ns\" means mushroom (\"fungo\"
    in Italian) ; with my design buddy at the university time we used to make fun
    of font files calling them metaphorically \"f\xF6ns,\" with a biological denotation.
    Beauty is really a language...\r\nRergards.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-01 10:42:36'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Alessandro, perhaps you realize this and are just being humorous, but I don't
    think those are mushrooms in Gerald's avatar. I believe they're printer's balls
    -- traditionally used to distribute ink on a letterpress form.\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2007-11-01 13:25:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "[Aside]\r\n\r\n<em>The Moomin Books are great!</em>\r\n\r\nCoincidentally,
    I'm reading one at the moment: <em>Moominland Midwinter.</em> I love the mix of
    delightful children's story with Scandinavian existential angst."
  created: '2007-11-01 13:50:13'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "HELP! I need to know what's up with these Moomin Books. Please, someone,
    hold my hand and point me in the right direction. In the meantime I'll do some
    googling. I am intrigued big time.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-01 14:45:07'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "It was a great joy to discover children's literature during my staying in
    Finland, really delightful and human.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fons_4374.gif]"
  created: '2007-11-01 16:37:59'
- author:
    name: joshcrates
    picture: 113492
  body: "Alessandro -\r\n\r\nI have enjoyed what you've posted thus far. Grazie.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nbieler
    -\r\n\r\nIs there any way I can be your student?\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nThank you for
    giving attention to this thread. I think it has been successful, because I have
    some good things to sink my teeth into. I've got a lot to think about."
  created: '2007-11-01 17:26:14'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Names that come to mind: Marshall McLuhan. Paul Virilio. Mihai Nadin: \"Civilization
    of Illiteracy\", available online. Nicholas Negroponte: \"Being Digital\", no
    coherent theory but nice ideas. Maybe even Michael Giesecke: \"Der Buchdruck in
    der fruehen Neuzeit\" is about the development <cite>toward</cite> typographic
    culture, a wonderful exercise in regarding our culture as something which is not
    eternal but has a history too; I cannot find an English translation, maybe there
    are at least some related essays in English?\r\n\r\nBut I was never able to translate
    these thoughts into design. Theory is theory. Type is type, however much distorted
    it is.\r\n\r\nA.S. -- <cite>Read the interesting comment posted by Mr William
    Berkson on the 19th of December, 2006, 1:08 PM, at: http://typophile.com/node/30130</cite>\r\nJ.P.
    -- <cite>with regard to mr. berkson\u2019s commentary and opinions... If typing
    in lowercase is an issue for the majority on this forum, I will gladly compromise.</cite>\r\n\r\nThen
    I am glad I have to write in English on Typophile since I write German with English
    (or Tschicholdian) capitalization: not no but less caps than usual. Is <cite>that</cite>
    alone regarded as an offense? Come one ...&nbsp;&nbsp;:)\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-01 18:08:55'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Theory is theory, everything is ok in the end. If it's not ok, it's not the
    end.\r\n<em>Erst die M\xF6glichkeit, einen Traum zu verwirklichen, macht unser
    Leben lebenswert.</em>"
  created: '2007-11-01 22:01:28'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "I believe Massismo Vignelli was one of a few of Emigre's select enemies way
    back when. I started selling off my collection on eBay a while back and eventually
    just started using a blanket statement \"Discernible articles within include....\"\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2007-11-02 03:00:32'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: LOL, well, he designed the poster "It's Their Bodoni" in 1996 circa.
  created: '2007-11-02 03:30:04'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: The title of this makes me think of Hybrid digital humans who can 'read' data
    directly rather than printed glyphs per se. Derivative  to be sure - but is that
    the sort of thing you had in mind?
  created: '2007-11-02 04:02:38'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Love Snufkin !
  created: '2007-11-02 05:53:39'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Eben is on it I think. What you need is a technology that bypasses the eye
    as the sensory input machine. But then you start bumping into all the non verbal
    information that is not keyed to letter and word shapes. So then maybe a technology
    that would bypass the optic nerve and visual data to simulate the visual data.
    Somehow I would think that if we beat the whole language virus and started working
    and communicating in pre-verbal thought the whole system of language would go
    away and no one would be interested in letter forms as communication.\r\n\r\ntangentially
    speaking\r\n\r\nSo look at your premise, that written language is how we store
    information. Maybe written language is a very small part of this information exchange.\r\n\r\nhttp://metaversed.com/27-jun-2007/bran-jack-virtual-reality-reality"
  created: '2007-11-02 16:53:26'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: In the future, everyone will use Data '70. You know I'm right.
  created: '2007-11-03 22:44:52'
- author:
    name: joshcrates
    picture: 113492
  body: "<strong>Eben Sorkin</strong> - Yes! Very much so along those lines.\r\n\r\nAll
    human knowledge is represented in glyph form via books. The internet is a giant
    book. It doesn't have to be that way, but its easy. There is nothing \"better\"
    to speak of.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n<strong>jupiterboy</strong> - \"What ever happened
    to virtual reality?\"\r\n\r\nA good question that came to mind when I read that
    article. I'm sure the answer has to do with pancapitalism... or something. More
    tangential goodness - What would affordable virtual reality that is indistinguishable
    from our perceived reality do the the world economy? \r\n\r\nRegardless, I think
    that you are right. Written language and type are only a fraction of the bigger
    picture here.\r\n\r\nMy font isn't going to look like a recognizable alphabet
    at all. Its going to appear as electrical activity in the brain - my brain. I
    somehow doubt this is going to get me a passing grade.\r\n\r\nI set the bar too
    high for this assignment. I should just do what everyone else in the class is
    doing... Pretty typefaces. [sigh]\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-04 22:25:26'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Joshcrates\r\n\r\nI don't know what the bigger picture is. I doubt anyone
    does. But maybe a doubtful passing grade is better than a pretty face. Refer your
    instructor to the thread.\r\n\r\nGerald\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-06 04:18:52'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I saw some primitive sensor to brain stuff that was happening in order to
    try to give vision back to people who had lost it. It was on a Scientific American
    TV show I think.. It was a sensor> electrode> brain model. It worked up to a point.
    The brain had to built up by practice and probably neural/brain growth to the
    point where it could interpret signals - but apparently that actually started
    happening. Resolution wasn't that great ( 80x80 pixels? ) but after a while a
    limited sense of vision was achieved. You might want to see what kind of wetware-jacking
    is the most up to date now and extrapolate from there. Maybe talk to a builder
    of the equipment.\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wetware\r\nhttp://www.cbc.ca/sunday/sight/procedure.html\r\nhttp://www.boston.com/business/globe/articles/2005/08/23/fda_gives_firm_ok_for_2d_test_of_brain_sensor/"
  created: '2007-11-06 04:47:35'
- author:
    name: joshcrates
    picture: 113492
  body: "Perhaps I will have my professor journey here and take a gander  when I complete
    the assignment. I'm going to print and include this thread as a part of the process
    book documenting my work. I don't want to jinx myself!\r\n\r\nI agree that a doubtful
    passing grade is more important than a sexy font... But I have grad school to
    worry about, specifically paying for it. The more high marks, the better, right?
    Maybe I am being too cautious, but I'm always afraid of running out of \"funding.\"
    Especially considering the types of employment and crappy wages currently endured...
    A waste of intelligence and ability. <-- Tangential vomit.\r\n\r\nThe concepts
    I'm addressing, both theoretical and otherwise, are going to be a great focus
    for the rest of my undergrad career. They'd make for a strong thesis or research
    proposal. Given the time constraints (the project is due in about one month) and
    the workload I have in other classes, I think I will \"dumb down\" my approach.
    If I can commit myself to one concept, I think my project will be successful.\r\n\r\nThat
    being said, I have narrowed down to a couple of concepts: dimensional typography
    and bouma shapes.\r\n\r\n I know these are nothing new (80s-90s?), but they could
    be a stepping stone for the future of the craft. It would be nice to leave the
    current flatness of the Web behind for a more engaging, interactive \"environment\"
    in more dimensions than two. Perhaps I can create a typeface that is legible from
    any angle which can function in a fluid, ever-changing 3D environment. Or maybe
    I can work on simplifying type into only bouma word-shapes (word shape recognition
    being the key to speed reading, and therefore, a faster way to assimilate knowledge
    and information into our hungry minds). If I used bouma shapes, the stress would
    not be on the invidual characters, so I would have to somehow prove that it is
    applicable to any word combination.\r\n\r\nSomeone is going to scold me for changing
    my mind... I just know it. My professor (Fo Wilson) supports this move. I feel
    much more confident in choosing one of the theories from the last paragraph, and
    they do spark my interest. I am not dismissing any ideas I discussed earlier,
    I am merely saving for a time when I can do them more justice. I still have a
    lot to learn about our beloved typographical heritage. I will find my way to the
    avant-garde in this craft someday. I won't rest until I have contributed something
    to the world."
  created: '2007-11-06 19:37:05'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The concepts I\u2019m addressing, both theoretical and otherwise, are
    going to be a great focus for the rest of my undergrad career.</cite>\r\n\r\nDon\u2019t
    try to obsess over a few topics or concepts during your undergrad work. That\u2019s
    what advanced degrees are for. Sometimes you need to shut away some of your own
    intellect and focus on just learning and doing what you\u2019re <em>supposed</em>
    to be doing. Getting into  avant-garde stuff can be nice, but make sure you can
    pay the bills along the way."
  created: '2007-11-06 19:38:30'
- author:
    name: joshcrates
    picture: 113492
  body: I'm not deciding the rest of my life right here, I should have chosen my words
    more carefully. I understand what you're saying.
  created: '2007-11-07 04:14:04'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: 'As for bouma shapes, I think parallel letter recognition is the theory currently
    normal among researchers. So it might depends what you mean by bouma that partially
    determines the usefulness of your research; on the other hand, concern for bouma
    and concern for parallel recognition might have similar influences on type design
    for readability. Perhaps the real questions are: what kinds of divergence, and
    to what degree at the levels both of the glyph and of the alphabet, assist readability?
    And what kinds and degrees of divergence harm readability by attracting the reader''s
    attention? Any answers must be largely empirical, though the research will need
    to be based upon a good understanding of type and typography if it''s to arrive
    at useful results. Kevin Larson at Microsoft is, as far as I know, the most important
    guy doing this kind of work at the moment. He''s posted here before.'
  created: '2007-11-08 00:44:00'
date: '2007-10-31 16:01:36'
title: technology, posthumanism and the future of typography

---
