---
author:
  name: marian bantjes
  picture: 111055
body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pic_restraint-2_4754.jpg]\r\n\r\nThis is
  Restraint. I'm not calling it a typeface because it doesn't have a full character
  set, so I'm calling it an ornament font which happens to contain letterforms. I've
  been developingthis thing with Ross Mills for a while now. I think he announced
  it at aTypeI in 2004, I announced it again at Typecon in August of this year, and
  we're finally done. We're selling it through Tiro Typeworks at [[http://www.tiro.com]],
  and you can see/read a bit more about it at [[http://www.bantjes.com/index.php?id=174]].\r\n\r\nIt's
  either extremely useful or completely useless, depending on your point of view,
  and it comes with instructions. Seriously."
comments:
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Hooray!! Congradulations Marian!
  created: '2007-11-03 03:53:53'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "I've had my eye on Restraint for sometime... extremely pretty, extremely
    versatile. :-) Love the flourishes.\r\n\r\nI don't like the EULA though. :-|\r\n\r\nMike"
  created: '2007-11-03 05:37:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Congratulations on the release of Restraint! I saw your TypeCon presentation
    in Seattle recently and am glad to see you have moved your project to the visible
    world :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-11-03 15:31:00'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: Wow, so pretty. Very much like Indic simulated :)
  created: '2007-11-03 16:11:40'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "I'm actually a little curious what people here think about that EULA.\r\n\r\nAs
    I mentioned on another forum, for the *standard licensing* we have put some unusual
    restrictions on its use:\r\n\r\nNot to be used for logos, signage or major ad
    campaigns (billboards, TV) where Restraint is the main or sole element of the
    design; and not to be used for items for sale for profit (e.g. t-shirts, jewellery,
    cards, wrapping paper, etc.)\r\n\r\nAs type designers, do you think this is outta
    line?\r\n\r\nI'm actually very convinced of the latter: I would be extremely pissed
    off to have someone profit from products for sale made of my work, which they
    paid $45 for. So that seems like a no-brainer. But what about the rest?\r\n\r\n-marian"
  created: '2007-11-03 16:23:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Marian,\r\nI think the issue is that your lovely artwork/font has so much
    of your own self in it that, as a logo, it would be hard to make it work for someone
    else. Someone would be giving over their identity to become you if they used it.
    \ If they made enough changes to make it their own, chosing your art as a basis
    would make no sense. I would imagine a logo would need to be less you and more
    whatever the brand was about.\r\nFor tshirts and jewelry, you have a real case
    though. Their is no brand involvement, only the visual appeal of the elements.
    Your work has plenty of visual and artistic appeal which is clearly part of your
    being and rightfully so. I think the issue is that this is not so much a typeface
    as a conceptual work of art who's parts can be rearranged in verbal or just textural
    patterns. By billing it as a typeface, you open yourself to the weak copyright
    protections of typefaces in general. You may want to promote it as artwork in
    the form of software instead. I would talk to a good lawyer like Frank Martinez
    about it and get a more professional opinion.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-11-03 16:44:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Marian, you may already be aware of this, but here is a similar clause in
    P22's EULA:\r\n\r\n\"However, the use of illustrative elements (also known as
    \u201Cdingbats\u201D,  \u201Cextras\u201D,  \u201Cornaments\u201D) within logo
    design requires an additional one-time license. If you have purchased the font(s)
    license for use on a large scale campaign such as in the course of entertainment
    promotion, advertising, corporate identity design, product packaging, store signage
    or in any way that requires the multi media (television, internet, print or other)
    output of the font(s), an additional license may be required.\" "
  created: '2007-11-03 16:50:13'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> So that seems like a no-brainer. </cite>\r\n\r\nI am not sure. When
    I looked at the font I thought ( more or less). ' Clever idea. THis is almost
    an instant ID machine. Maybe it's a kind of \"everyman's Marian\". No exclusivity
    of course. Hmm I wonder how this will be used? Maybe a restaurant will pick it
    up & use it'... \r\n\r\nSo I was immediately anticipating a prohibited use with
    no Malice in my heart. Really! \r\n\r\nNow I see that's not your intention I confess
    that I see how you might feel that way. Especially not being a font maker most
    of the time. But I am not sure if it's an advisable position because unless you
    make the unusual terms of the EULA extra-clear you could end up spending too much
    time litigating and not enough time having fun.\r\n\r\nMaybe you should allow
    the currently prohibited uses by making a clear path to an explicit special license
    for each kind of use. That would be 'rights managed' photo model of licensing.\r\n\r\nI
    don't know though. That's just my 1st reaction.\r\n\r\nWhat do you think of this
    idea?"
  created: '2007-11-04 01:10:13'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> I would be extremely pissed off \r\n\r\nThey do not even allow you to print
    out the shit EULA:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.tiro.com/Restraint/Restraint_EULA_2007_(5).pdf\r\n\r\nInstead
    of the shit EULA, you may print out this shit:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/shit.gif"
  created: '2007-11-04 09:41:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Personally, I think that the EULA makes a lot of sense. Restraint isn\u2019t
    the most useful typeface when it comes to serious commercial applications\u2014unless
    the application happens to be trying to get the look of a Marian Bantjes design
    without actually spending money on an artist. Type design is not your primary
    source of income, so it makes plenty of sense to let people know up front that
    they can\u2019t just go the cheap route and use your font to cash in on your popular
    work.\r\n\r\nOn a related note, this font seems to be catching on with design
    students including you in their thesis/dissertation work. I already know more
    than one person who purchased it just for that."
  created: '2007-11-04 13:13:58'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Don't get me wrong - I don't think that Marian aught not to have the EULA
    she prefers. Far from it! I just think that practically speaking people generally
    expect to be able to do & not do certain things with a font. At least I do. I
    expect that I may or may not be able to modify a font I license. I expect to be
    able to use it for one glyph or to print a book. But I really don't expect to
    be told not to use it in an ID or logo. Unhappy surprises are avoidable. So why
    not avoid them with a special notice of what is an admittedly unusual EULA? \r\n\r\n<cite>\r\nRestraint
    isn\u2019t the most useful typeface when it comes to serious commercial applications\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    depends. For a computer services company - probably not. But for a Bar, Restaurant
    or Quilting store or even Soap packaging. It could be legitimately & seriously
    used. \r\n\r\nI also think it could be hard in some ( not all ) circumstances
    to say if the font is or is not the 'main' element. I mean, who is going to decide?
    It just seems messy to me. I don't know though. Maybe Marian want to review all
    the pieces that use her font/design. If it was me I would not."
  created: '2007-11-04 14:04:12'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "I had very mixed feelings about the EULA, because as a designer I had never
    even read an entire EULA. When I had a studio, I used to skim to find the part
    re. number of computers & output devices, and that's it. For that reason I have
    made the unusual exceptions as up-front as possible: they're listed on my web
    site, again in the instructions and highlighted in red in the EULA. (I will see
    if Ross can provide a link to the EULA from the site.)\r\n\r\nThe vast majority
    of applications are not problematic: magazines, menus, packaging etc. If someone
    did have a problem with the EULA, I would question their intent: so you *did*
    want to plaster it all over billboards or make jewellery? And in such case I feel
    justified in feeling indignant. And we do say \"Please contact us for additional
    licensing.\" Despite my unease, in the end I thought \"Fuck it, do I care if Designer
    X decides not to buy it because they wanted to use it for a logo?\" I don't care.\r\n\r\nMessy,
    unfortunately, yes. There are problems that Ross and I may have to untangle one
    day.\r\n\r\nBut in a bigger sense, I'm curious about the question of what is a
    [digital] font? Is a font a delivery system of artwork? Or is it a thing in and
    of itself with inherent or implied rights, or lack thereof?\r\n\r\nWhen teaching
    typography I have sometimes made the analogy between a typeface and a piece of
    music, where the typeface is the music owned by the artist, and the font is like
    the CD: a delivery system of that music. You own the CD, but not the music. But
    even with a CD (or digital file) there are restrictions on how you can use it:
    but most people understand that while they can play the CD at home or at a party,
    if they want to use it for their radio commercial, they need to pay more: usually
    a lot more.\r\n\r\nP22's licensing is interesting in that they make a distinction
    between the dingbats and the letterforms. Presumably this has to do with the long
    battles over copyright in typeface design, but it's interesting to me that at
    some point there is this distinction between what is licensable art, and what
    is not. \r\n\r\nThese larger questions of art vs. letterforms and what it means
    to create a Font are much more interesting to me. Is Restraint art that we can
    understand should be licensed accordingly, or is it a Font that essentially has
    no rights, or very few, once the purchase price has been paid? And if so, why?
    These are largely rhetorical questions, but things that I've struggled with over
    the past few months as we've hashed out the EULA.\r\n\r\n\r\n-marian"
  created: '2007-11-04 20:39:00'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: "I am a confused by one term in the EULA:\r\n\r\n\"you may not use the font
    for the creation of ... identities\".  I suppose that the word identities has
    a very specific, limited meaning for real designers, but being a layman, I'm not
    too sure where normal use ends, and identity begins. \r\n\r\nIf I used Restraint
    to set my company letterhead, that would be an identity use, right? So I can't
    use it for business forms like invoices, can I? Okay.\r\n\r\nNow, if I wanted
    to use it in a brochure advertising my new puppet play, I would probably want
    to use it throughout the material for the show, i.e., the teacher's guides, info
    sheets, programmes - but then, am I not using it to create an identity for the
    play? If I can't use it throughout, won't it look rather out of place where I
    do use it? Hmm ... then purchasing the font would seem like a bad idea. I'm not
    sure when I could use it.\r\n\r\nOr am I just not understanding the word \"identity\".
    If so, maybe you could gloss it in your EULA."
  created: '2007-11-04 22:12:06'
- author:
    name: Ross Mills
  body: "Allow me, if you will, to add a few comments on this.\r\n\r\nI am perfectly
    aware that some of these clauses in the basic EULA may cause consternation amongst
    some. I am perfectly aware that these clauses may well not be legally enforcible
    in some jurisdictions.\r\n\r\nAlso, I am not suggesting that the fair use clause
    be applied to all other fonts. It is included due to the unique nature of this
    particular design.\r\n\r\nThe usage restrictions that apply to the basic license
    are an issue of fairness. Fairness both to those who have become accustomed to
    purchasing font licenses at industry-average prices which under-value the work
    of living designers. Fairness also to us as creators of both a tool and intellectual
    property. Or of course to those who are just obtaining some entertainment value
    from the font.\r\n\r\nIn the case of Restraint, nowhere have we said that you
    absolutely can not use it as a principal design element or identity. What we have
    said is you can't necessarily do it for $45. No where have we said you absolutely
    can not modify it (or have it modified). We have simply requested you ask first
    and give us first refusal. And if any of the terms are unclear to you, you can
    exercise your fingers by sending us an email, although I realize that some find
    it easier to complain to the aether which isn't enabled to help them with their
    complaints. And for those that have a problem with the legality of the agreement,
    well then we will have to start charging a hell of a lot more to be able to hire
    a lawyer who can then write a nice long convoluted license agreement which no
    one will read and then we're back at square one.\r\n\r\nSo, given these issues,
    we welcome constructive, thoughtful feedback on how the license may be improved
    or clarified.\r\n\r\nPart of what I would like is to re-establish understanding
    between us and our (retail font) customer. The EULA is an agreement between us--a
    base contract which serves both you and us. Like most any contract, it is open
    to reasonable discussion; it is not a blind or brick wall, but a starting point.
    We have a limited, fair license fee and so therefore also have a limited, fair
    license. The fair use restrictions, which are unusual in the font world, are indications
    that if you intend to make obscene amounts of money off the basis of our work
    that we would like to be compensated. Likewise, if you ask 'can I use this for
    my puppet show?' under the basic license, chances are we will say yes. It is a
    pretty simple concept in the face of so many click-through agreements.\r\n\r\nIf
    someone ignores the intent of the license agreement that is on their conscience.
    We will either give them the opportunity to give us fair compensation or revoke
    their license. Or any number of other possibilities. We do not want to vet every
    instance of use. And as Marian says, if someone thinks they can't use it for a
    logo and decides not to buy it, I'm not going to sweat it for the loss of $45.
    If re-entering the retail font business becomes too onerous by virtue of those
    who find the terms unfair or intellectual property valueless or price too high
    etc., then I can do without it. I hope that won't be the case and that those who
    like and respect what I have to sell will continue to be served well by it.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-04 23:49:46'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I was thinking about this some more today in light of Eben\u2019s comment
    about a \u201Crights managed\u201D style license option for fonts, and tying it
    to my previous suggestion of licensing fonts for single uses. I am surprised that
    more foundries don\u2019t take an approach like that. I guess it\u2019s easier
    for stock photo resellers to pull this off than font foundries\u2014piracy of
    their stuff is far less common and/or easy, and the big photo houses have the
    money to sue, which most type vendors don\u2019t. Please let us know how it works
    out in a year, Marian."
  created: '2007-11-05 02:24:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Ross, Thanks for commenting too. You make some great points. \r\n\r\nAlso
    your EULA is surprisingly readable & understandable.  Good on ya!\r\n\r\nStill
    I feel like I should mention that rather than prohibit with the phrase<cite> \r\n
    'you may not use the font software' </cite>\r\n\r\nAnd then re-open the door with
    the phrase \r\n<cite>'if you wish to use the Font Software'</cite>\r\n\r\n - why
    not reverse it & say something like  \r\n\r\n<strong> 'NOTE: While it is unusual,
    however using this font software for X,Y & Z requires special additional licensing
    terms. Contact us for details. If you don't intend to abide by these terms please
    do not buy the font.' </strong>\r\n\r\nJust think, if I was violently & ravenously
    interested in the font; just think what the phrase 'you may not..' would mean.
    I might not even keep reading - ah the disappointment! ;-) But taken the other
    way I think it is clearer.\r\n\r\nAgain I am not suggesting that you do anything
    different. Just the the way it is done could be more transparent and so more free
    of nasty-surprises for everybody. To me that would actually begin with a stronger
    notice about the EULA here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.tiro.com/Restraint/index.html\r\n\r\nStill,
    I think that some of what I am getting at may be best put across by showing rather
    than by explaining. May I have your permission to mock something up?"
  created: '2007-11-05 02:49:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Uli, within the context of this thread, it's you who is the bizarre freak.\r\nWould
    it trouble you too much to curb your coprolalia and show designers some respect?\r\nYou
    could always apologize, or delete the offensive post(s).\r\nAnd then try and make
    your case in a more rational and dispassionate manner.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-05 06:38:02'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Would it trouble you too much to curb your coprolalia \r\n\r\nIn this thread,
    Mrs. Bantjes preferred the parlance \"piss\" (\"I would be extremely pissed off\"),
    to which you did not object. So, as you do not mind the lady's parlance, I adopt
    her parlance to make both of you happy.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/piss.gif\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-05 08:23:50'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "bwahahahhahahah... well put Uli!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-05 08:53:20'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Uli, I don''t think that her tone & yours are remotely close. I also doubt
    that you will convince them of anything by calling them ''freaks''. And I even
    think you know this. So let me ask you: do you want to convince them of some point
    or another? Or are you just trying to be unpleasant for it''s own sake?  I do
    agree that it would be a good idea to be able to print the EULA though. I suspect
    it''s a question of busy people at a small foundry and is just an oversight -  not
    really worthy of such a frothy reaction.'
  created: '2007-11-05 11:07:39'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: "Marian and Ross are talented artists who also happen to be generous and all-around
    nice people. While their EULA may differ from the norm, Restraint is not exactly
    a \"typical\" typeface and surely that has to be taken into consideration. As
    has been said by others here, if someone doesn't agree with the EULA, they are
    not forced to license this typeface. I think it's cool that Marian and Ross have
    released it at all. It's been in the works for several years, and Marian's star
    as an illustrator and lettering artist has risen greatly during that time. They
    could have opted not to release Restraint at all and Marian could stick with custom
    lettering projects which offer more lucrative compensation and less potential
    for headaches than single font sales accomplished over time.\r\n\r\nA reasoned
    argument or suggestion on clarification is helpful and leads to a positive dialog
    that informs and assists everyone in the type business and those who use type.
    Name-calling, insults, and the cheering on of said name-calling is mean-spirited,
    pointless, and not appropriate to this or any other discussion on Typophile."
  created: '2007-11-05 12:06:02'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "amen, tamye!\r\nyou've said all the things i would have like to have said,
    but just didn't have the energy to. the negative vibes sometimes present on typophile
    can really sap me. the gross sense of entitlement is particularly sickening at
    times. i hope marian and ross can overlook the naysayers and realize that the
    majority of us are simply happy to have restraint avaiable for any usage at all.
    thanks for the hard work!"
  created: '2007-11-05 12:15:28'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Underware also used (still do\u2026) a kind of 'stepped' licensing; they
    sold the fontsoftware bundled with a book for a VERY reasonable price, but if
    the purchaser went and did something serious with the typefaces, he or she was
    obliged to pay a licence fee. Underware did this with Sauna and Dolly, maybe with
    more of their products.\r\nNot unreasonable, just as Ms Bantjers' offer and UELA
    is not unreasonable.\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2007-11-05 12:33:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "As Eben mentioned earlier, if the EULA spells out positive options, rather
    than focusing on the negative prohibition, the EULA will be clearer, as well as
    less likely to raise hackles. The P22 EULA clause I quoted above I think is a
    good model: it invites the reader to buy the higher level licenses for those purposes.
    \r\n\r\nNow you have: \"However, under this license *you may not use* the font
    software:\" and the list prohibitions follows--with the prohibition that I have
    put asterisks in red.\r\n\r\nInstead: \r\n\r\n\"Tiro licenses this software on
    two levels. The basic level includes the following uses: ....\r\n\r\nThe second
    level includes the following uses. These are not authorized by the basic license,
    and require an additional license specific to the usage: ...\r\n\r\nTo buy the
    basic license only and download the software, click here. For the additional licenses
    contact us.\"\r\n\r\nNow that I look at it again, I think the biggest problem
    with the EULA is that it is not clear enough. \"Most personal and commercial applications\"
    gives us no specifics on what is permitted. And as John wrote above, the \"identities\"
    is not clear as everything a business publishes is part of its identity. \r\n\r\nPerhaps,
    \"'commercial products' and 'identities' require an additional license, and are
    not permitted under the basic license only.  'Commercial products' and 'identities'
    are defined as follows: ...\" "
  created: '2007-11-05 14:20:35'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: It seems to me that the problem is not the EULA itself, which is not so much
    odious as oddball. I wonder how many designers have considered something similar,
    but not done so simple to avoid rocking the boat.
  created: '2007-11-05 14:23:56'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "> <cite>Would it trouble you too much to curb your coprolalia and show designers
    some respect?</cite>\r\n\r\nWow. I really never thought I'd ever hear anyone use
    that word again as long as I lived. That's a serious blast from my past, Nick.
    The last time I heard that word uttered was 1990. Thanks for showing off your
    vocabulary.\r\n\r\nYours appreciatively,\r\n\r\nThe Kopralaliac (or so I was once
    tagged)"
  created: '2007-11-05 15:44:24'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "Thanks all, and particularly Eben, for the comments. I'll talk to Ross and
    see if we can get that language turned around. I spent a lot of time on the EULA
    overall, just to get it as clear and simple (and readable) as possible, so these
    points are helpful for making it even more so.\r\n\r\nThat whole \"identities\"
    thing: I remember going back and forth \"identities\" vs. \"logos\" and can't
    remember why I settled on the former. I will rethink, as I am now leaning toward
    the latter.\r\n\r\nI will also see if Ross has any objection to making the PDF
    of the EULA available. It is probably an oversight. We just launched Restraint
    ... last week was it? And we've both been pretty busy with other things.\r\n\r\n>I
    wonder how many designers have considered something similar, but not done so simple
    to avoid rocking the boat.\r\n\r\nI wonder too. And I wonder how designers feel
    in general when they see their typeface used for a major identity, or as signature
    work in an ad campaign. I fully expect most to say \"proud,\" but still I wonder.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-marian"
  created: '2007-11-05 16:52:00'
- author:
    name: RedMonolith
  body: Great typeface, bad EULA.  I think that setting the security such that you
    can't even print it smacks of bad faith and could hurt you down the line.  I don't
    like agreeing with Uli, but I can't fathom why you'd feel the need to make it
    unprintable.  I don't think I could justify ever buying or (even if I bought it)
    using the typeface with these ill-defined, byzantine restrictions, either.  It's
    a shame, because it's absolutely beautiful.
  created: '2007-11-05 16:56:44'
- author:
    name: Cassie
    picture: 112932
  body: "I don't think that the EULA is out of line at all. From the above comments
    it looks like it needs some clarification, but I think its restrictions are fair.
    \r\n\r\nMaybe here's another way to look at it, something that I've been wondering
    for a while: Is it kosher to use ornaments from <em>any</em> font as the <em>main
    element</em> of a logo? I've seen, for example, a logo created entirely out of
    two ornaments stuck together, unmodified (besides the joining of the two). While
    that's not illegal, is it something that is encouraged, or even looked upon as
    okay? I'd feel weird doing that and then saying that I created it completely."
  created: '2007-11-05 17:50:25'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "I am coming in late, but congratulations, Marian and Ross!\r\n\r\n<em>But
    even with a CD (or digital file) there are restrictions on how you can use it:
    but most people understand that while they can play the CD at home or at a party,
    if they want to use it for their radio commercial, they need to pay more: usually
    a lot more...</em>\r\n\r\nMarian, you raise a lot of interesting questions. On
    the practical ones, I think that Chris Lozos and William Berkson have already
    spoken for me. I just want to add this pre-digital example of usage restrictions
    placed on clip art distributed in book form:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/enciso_4073.jpg]\r\n\r\nNotice
    that the back cover states that the artwork is copyright free, and yet \"You may
    use up to 10 items for any single use without fee or special permission.\" So
    anything above that amount will entail contacting the publisher and either getting
    permission or paying an extra fee.\r\n\r\nSo this issue has precedents, and others
    have gone down this road too.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-05 18:56:46'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: 'Without weighing in on the EULA discussion, I''d like to say that I really
    admire this face. What a wonderful job. '
  created: '2007-11-05 20:16:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "This is similar to the quite standard restrictions placed on stock photography,
    in particular that you can't \"licence\" a photo and then make a print of it which
    you sell as a piece of artwork on its own merits entirely, without adding any
    design value.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nHowever Marian, beyond that kind of use, I think
    your licence is a bit restrictive for a font.\r\n\r\nAFAIK, with your licence
    applied to Ale Paul's font, Veer's \"swash-buckle\" would not be possible:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/VPR0001440_P3_4428.jpg]"
  created: '2007-11-05 20:51:14'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: Ale Paul's font is a Veer product and the buckle is a Veer promo. That kind
    of relationship makes it easy to sort out. If I wanted to make a line of square
    cermic tiles in Restraint (even without the EULA wording as it is) wouldn't it
    seem like contacting the designer or foundry to see if it was OK be a wise place
    to start? It still seems that Anything is possible for a negotiated licensed use,
    but contacting the foundry will determine the specifics.
  created: '2007-11-05 20:58:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "OK, not the best example, but if a font is designed to make \"type art\"
    it's a bit silly to discourage it.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-05 21:23:23'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>OK, not the best example, but if a font is designed to make \u201Ctype
    art\u201D it\u2019s a bit silly to discourage it.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t think
    Marian and Tiro are discouraging people from using the type, just making sure
    that the designer is fairly compensated for the use of her work to produce said
    art. "
  created: '2007-11-05 21:29:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I make the distinction between dingbat usage, which is about isolated glyphs,
    and the fact that the Restraint artwork is a part of a font system for recombining
    glyphs in different manners, so Restraint is not much different than other ornament
    fonts such as a couple I have, Columbus (Monotype/Saunders) and Granjon Ornaments
    (Lanston/Giampa).
  created: '2007-11-05 21:32:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: James, it is a discouragement to have to contact the foundry and negotiate,
    rather than just use the font.
  created: '2007-11-05 21:34:03'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "EDIT - EDIT - EDIT\r\n\r\nOn 5th November at about 23:00 hours (European
    time) they removed the PDF print out restriction so that their EULA is printable
    as of now. Bravo.\r\n\r\nSo, I now again delete my \"freaky/freaks\" words by
    \"xxxxx\"\r\n\r\n-------------------------------------------------------------------\r\n\r\nI
    repeat what I said above:\r\n\r\nThey do not even allow you to print out this
    xxxxx Eula:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.tiro.com/Restraint/Restraint_EULA_2007_(5).pdf\r\n\r\nAnd
    this simple fact alone that these xxxxx (i.e. Bantjes, Ross, Tiro, etc.) do not
    permit you to print out the Eula, makes the Eula null and invalid.\r\n\r\nNo court
    room judge would make a barely legible screen shot and then a print out of this
    barely legible screen shot, which would look this way:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/eula.gif\r\n\r\nInstead,
    the court room judge would state that these xxxxx Bantjes, Ross, Tiro, who do
    not even allow you to make a legible print out of this bizarre Eula cannot expect
    that anyone adheres to this xxxxx, barely readable invalid Eula.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-05 22:26:25'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "Re: the EULA as a PDF: it is posted so that it is perfectly readable online;
    a printable version is supplied with the font. This is a small detail that Ross
    has set up for his own reasons.\r\n\r\n>if a font is designed to make \u201Ctype
    art\u201D it\u2019s a bit silly to discourage it.\r\n\r\nNot even remotely. Make
    as much art with it as you want, just don't sell it for profit without negotiating
    compensation with me. With Restraint you can make fancy borders or shapes or headlines
    for magazines, brochures, company stationery, CDs, band posters galore. You can
    even make tiles for your own personal fireplace, but if you want to sell \"art\"
    that is actually my art, I deserve a cut in that.\r\n\r\nSome people here, and
    some people not here have looked, or will look at the EULA and say, No Way. Not
    only am I not concerned, I'm happy to have turned those people away. I really
    don't need their $45 that badly. For those who want to use it in good faith, have
    fun with it, and make some clients happy I say Hello and Welcome; I'd love to
    see what you make and how you found working with the font. \r\n\r\nI have to say,
    as a font it's piles of fun. Once you get the hang of the system, it's highly
    addictive. Myself, I'm still discovering the possibilities.\r\n\r\nBut hey, Check
    It Out! I made the top of the Hottest list on Typophile! Too bad it wasn't all
    slavish devotion, but the discussion has been interesting. I've always had a fascination
    with issues of copyright.\r\n\r\nOh and one last thing ... wouldn't it be cool
    if my EULA prompted future font buyers to actually notice and read their EULAs?
    Because I can tell you, right now they don't. The vast majority of people in the
    design community don't even know what a EULA is, even when you spell it out.\r\n\r\n\r\n-marian"
  created: '2007-11-05 22:54:26'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: Weirdly prophetic font title ;)
  created: '2007-11-06 00:52:48'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I think it is a very logical and obvious EULA. \r\n\r\nThere."
  created: '2007-11-06 01:17:05'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The vast majority of people in the design community don\u2019t even
    know what a EULA is, even when you spell it out.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s probably
    because only a few of them are paying for their fonts to begin with."
  created: '2007-11-06 01:35:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">The vast majority of people in the design community don\u2019t even know
    what a EULA is, even when you spell it out.\r\n\r\nSo R&M have set up an elaborate
    labyrinth in which to entrap the unsuspecting font purchaser - and we are helping
    by contributing to a thread that will become part of the permanent record. Those
    inscrutable BC islanders!\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-06 02:38:08'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "<cite> I think it is a very logical and obvious EULA.\r\n\r\nThere\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nFor
    the record, I tend to agree with you; it's an unusual EULA sure, but it's a bit
    of an unusual font..."
  created: '2007-11-06 03:13:16'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "<em>elaborate labyrinth in which to entrap</em>\r\n\r\nActually it's got
    pretty good wayfinding, and a well-marked exit.\r\n:) \r\n\r\n-marian"
  created: '2007-11-06 03:17:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>but if you want to sell \u201Cart\u201D that is actually my art, I deserve
    a cut in that.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's not your art.\r\nFor all but the most obvious
    \"single dingbat = artwork\" usage, it becomes their art, merely by combining
    the glyphs.\r\nThat's the essence of typography, and by making a font with combinable
    glyphs, you have accepted that ethos, moving your work from the realm of art to
    that of design tool."
  created: '2007-11-06 04:37:59'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> \r\nyou have accepted that ethos\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nEven though you
    are right that this is the way 99.9% of font users think about their fonts I have
    to disagree. EULAs are just culture. Culture is invented & reinvented. It's is
    true that there is an established culture in font sales.  And Marian is clearly
    bucking the established cultural assumptions*. But the culture of type sales has
    changed over & over. There is no reason to think that it will remain as it is
    today forever, or that it can't be split into a variety of modes in the future.\r\n\r\nObviously
    what people actually do is a whole other issue as well.\r\n\r\nIt might be that
    following the established mode is smartest, or most lucrative, or satisfying.
    Or not. But irrespective of how it turns out in the end I respect Marian's right
    to try new models of Font licensing. Perhaps it will be a useful lesson to us.
    Hopefully we will pay attention not simply to the EULA itself but to the way the
    buyer experience is crafted.**\r\n\r\n * That is of course why I suggested going
    well out of the usual way to point that out to a buyer before they buy.\r\n**
    If that sounds creepy then - tough. "
  created: '2007-11-06 05:14:49'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Great thread for a great font.\r\n\r\nTamye took the words right out of my
    mouth. \r\n\r\nI think the EULA is *absolutely* appropriate. The typeface design
    is not only a \"dingbat\" font, if you want to simplify it, but it also  enables
    the person who chooses to license the font to use a little of Marian's lettering/design
    skills. Anyone who licenses it will know that too. \"Hey we can't afford to have
    Marian do some work for us, let's just license the font and ask about extended
    licensing.\"\r\n\r\nMore and more type designers are having to decide how to charge
    for their work. Which is the key, of course, as it is their work to price and
    our choice to make. \r\n\r\nIn regards to our 3-letter friend please don't feed
    him."
  created: '2007-11-06 05:15:38'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I have to disagree. The EULA does allow Marian and Ross the right to control
    how the font is used in a basic license situation. Art or not. \r\n\r\nIn regards
    to established ways of selling. I say buck the trends. Reinvent the wheel. Make
    a better wheel. Not every EULA works for every font design. I once argued for
    a single EULA, but I know after doing more reading and delving deeper into this
    black art that it just isn't possible. Why? Because you cannot separate the typeface
    designer's perceived value from the actual value. They are one in the same. Font
    A will never be the same as Font B. Even Wedding Font A will never be the same
    as Wedding Font B. Foundries value and price their fonts differently. If the people
    shopping and licensing aren't saavy enough to understand the differences it isn't
    the foundries fault."
  created: '2007-11-06 05:21:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Well said Tiffany.\r\nThere is room for innovation in pricing, marketing,
    and licensing.\r\nI don't see art here, any more than Zuzana Licko's Whirligigs
    or this week's No. 3 at Myfonts:\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/subcommunications/subikto-two/
    and countless other picture fonts.\r\nBut perhaps I'm wrong and they're all art.\r\nActually,
    that's distinction is irrelevant.\r\nThe difference is staked on Marian's reputation
    and the quality of her work, and perhaps that's what it takes to make the difference
    -- in a similar manner to the different pricing and licensing that foundries of
    different reputation and ability can exercise for \"plain\" type fonts."
  created: '2007-11-06 05:45:05'
- author:
    name: mr
    picture: 112699
  body: I'm no expert, but it seems the other license, the one that allows what is
    forbidden by this one, should be the primary one. It seems to me that the usage
    that this typeface is most suited to is the very thing which is forbidden. I don't
    think it's a bad idea to offer a license that forbids this use, but I do think
    it is a bad idea to leave the permissive license as a nebular possibility rather
    than an actual EULA with a price attached.
  created: '2007-11-06 12:28:04'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Now that the Eula pdf file has been made printable, I had a closer look at
    it.\r\n\r\nIn the preamble it is declared that the <strong>design</strong> contained
    in the font \"is protected by copyright laws and international copyright treaties\".
    I think that this is not correct. It is said that Canada's industrial design act
    affords ten years of protection to industrial designs that are registered; there
    is no protection if the design is not registered. The same holds true of Europe:
    No registration, no protection. Since the design of Restraint was not registered
    in Alicante, the font is as free as a bird in Europe, and the entire Eula can
    be ignored altogether, as it is based on incorrect legal claims. I wonder by what
    \"international treaty\" Mrs. Bantjes and the Tiro Typeworks think that the design
    of this font is protected in Europe, considering that even in Canada no protection
    of designs is granted without registration."
  created: '2007-11-06 13:37:27'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: 'You seem very informed and must have extensive legal experience. Your credentails
    must be outstanding. We could stand to hire a sharp lawyer like you. What law
    school did you attend Uli? '
  created: '2007-11-06 13:43:03'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> You seem very informed\r\n\r\nNo, but by logical thinking, you will arrive
    at the same conclusion. For example, Linotype pays thousands and thousands of
    Euros for registration fees (and lawyers' fees) for registrating all new font
    designs in Alicante\r\n\r\n(The Alicante website is here: http://oami.europa.eu/en/design)\r\n\r\nWhy
    should Linotype spend huge sums of money, if they could achieve the same result
    automatically by \u201Cinternational treaties\"? So, you only need logical thinking
    for arriving at the same conclusion that the Eula for the Restraint font contains
    erroneous (and illogical) legal claims."
  created: '2007-11-06 14:58:57'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I do think in this instance the design falls beyond whirligigs and other
    dingbat typefaces. Marian has a great reputation and I think people will license
    the font on that alone. Perhaps even license first and find a use for it later. '
  created: '2007-11-06 22:16:12'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Uli is a Vulcan. Now I get it. '
  created: '2007-11-06 23:48:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "There's a bit more to the Whirligigs. They were created as rotated pattern
    fields from graphic elements, and may be repeated in combination with one another
    to create larger diaper fields. http://www.emigre.com/EFfeature.php?di=131 \r\nZuzana
    Licko has also designed the Puzzler fonts for similar purpose.\r\nThe field effect
    of Whirligigs has something in common with Restraint, though not its integration
    of type with ornament.\r\nRestraint's innovation is to combine the regularity
    of a connecting modular ornament system with type by means of connecting flourishes
    that grow out of the letters. A design innovation, yet within the convention of
    typography -- certainly as it was practiced in the early 20th century, when founders
    such as Linotype produced elaborate ornament systems matched to type genres (demonstrated
    to great effect in their 1923 Manual). W.A. Dwiggins created an ornamental system,
    Caravan, for use with contemporary faces such as his Electra, and Fairfield. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-07 00:15:42'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Oh and one last thing ... wouldn\u2019t it be cool if my EULA prompted
    future font buyers to actually notice and read their EULAs? \"\r\n\r\nYou have
    space in your beautiful thread-opening specimen, in the lower half, near the navel
    of the cross, two little columns...even the headline seems right. :)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-11-07 04:09:35'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I didn't mean to lump Whirligigs with all the other dingbat fonts. Perhaps
    they have a specific Emigre style to them as well. However \u2014 and I'll have
    to go check their EULA again \u2014 their EULA doesn't disallow usages (without
    extending one's license) in this way. Perhaps they should have. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-07 18:14:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "There's nothing physically inherent in an object that makes it art. \r\nSo
    the borderline changes over time. Photography, for instance, was once not considered
    an art medium.\r\nA software licence is a legal contract, so technically, the
    writer can put anything she wants in it -- which Mary J. Blige does in her performance
    contracts, to the amusement, if not consternation, of hotel managers.\r\nMatched
    type-ornament systems have been around for a while, and in terms of intellectual
    property the ornaments have just been treated like type. What makes Restraint
    different, apart from the designer's style, is a design innovation, not the fact
    that its designer's glyphs are art and others' rendering of ornaments aren't.
    When one looks at people who are practising artists/illustrators, who have designed
    digital fonts, the licences for their dingbats are generally no different than
    for the letter glyphs. For instance, Barbara Klunder's Klunder Kreatures and Klunder
    Script. \r\n\r\nThere is a demand curve for \"artwork\", price plotted against
    sales volume.\r\nAt one end is one-off work (often commissioned), expensive: e.g.
    a painting or illustration.\r\nIn the middle of the curve, limited production
    -- e.g. a limited edition of a print. Also rights-managed software licences.\r\nAt
    the other end, mass production at low price.\r\n\r\nSo the deal is, with type,
    that a lettering/ornament artist surrenders the one-off exclusivity of the work,
    in return for the opportunity to make volume sales.\r\n\r\nIn the middle of the
    curve, there's room for negotiation.\r\nFor instance, some foundries offer the
    same font at different prices to professional or amateur users.\r\nIt can increase
    overall sales to split the market for a product or product category -- a new niche
    is attractive, and two niches can be better than one.\r\nP-22's approach to dingbat-as-art
    licensing adds value--an increased measure of exclusivity in return for a higher
    licensing fee. The same product is positioned at two points on the demand curve.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-07 19:06:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> \r\nWhat makes Restraint different, apart from the designer\u2019s
    style, is a design innovation, not the fact that its designer\u2019s glyphs are
    art and others\u2019 rendering of ornaments aren\u2019t. </cite>\r\n\r\nI have
    to agree. What you think it 'is' doesn't have to lead to one kind of EULA or the
    other. A regular Text or Headline font could just as easily take the EULA that
    Marian has for Restraint.  The Question where EULAs are conecerned is 'what relationship
    with the market do you want?'. Not 'what kind of thing is it'. \r\n\r\nRemember,
    fonts that are bespoke or custom have different EULAs too.\r\n\r\nWhat I would
    actually like to know a bit more about at this point isn't the EULA but about
    the design itself. In particular I wonder about the Mono spacing & how that condition
    made Marian alter the forms if at all. I ask this because there are things about
    the forms that seem odd to me in terms of the way they take up space. The 1 (one),
    I (eye), L, S, W & V all strike me as forms that I might have made differently.
    Of course Marian's work isn't about making things just be pretty or comfortable
    - but I imagine that there was a tension to be resolved or decided about - and
    I would like to hear more about that. For instance, Marian; did the optical weight
    of a letter impact the way you constructed ornament or the density of ornament
    around the letter? Or did that kind of thing even come up?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-07 23:11:26'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "Eben,\r\nThe thing was designed to have ornaments based inside squares, which
    connected to each other at 3 points. The monospacing is merely what makes the
    font work with ease, but it was the 3 points of connection that influenced the
    look of the letterforms, and the ornament more than anything. I was mostly trying
    to balance within a small square: a letter form, 12 points of connection (4x3),
    variation in ornament, and a certain balance of space. Of the letters you mentioned
    only the S causes me some concern. It bugs me the way it's off-centre, and I almost
    redesigned it at the last minute. When I first designed Restraint, the letters
    were a little clunkier, and Ross spent some time on them; giving them a little
    more elegant form.\r\n\r\n\r\n-marian"
  created: '2007-11-08 19:17:39'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I see - so the ends of things have to be in certain places. That makes sense.
    Thanks!\r\n\r\nBTW - I am not suggesting that things <cite> should </cite> be
    different, or are not quite right;  just that my own letter making interests,
    priorities and tendencies etc would probably have taken me in a different directions
    - and especially with those letters. I have spent the last year working on a monospace
    for programming and it's a different head space.\r\n\r\nDo you think you will
    return to this font & add support for german or french or anything later? \r\n\r\nWhat
    about additional levels of ornament for either the letters or the existing ornament
    - or both?"
  created: '2007-11-08 21:25:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "If someone else were to develop a font with a set of alternate letters (with
    the three-per-side connecting lines) to be used with Restraint's pure ornaments,
    how would you feel about that Marian? Or vice versa--a font of alternate fronds
    to go with Restraint's letters? \r\n"
  created: '2007-11-08 21:53:09'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "<em>Do you think you will return to this font & add support for german or
    french or anything later?</em>\r\n\r\nRoss has already received a request for
    accented characters, which he has made. So yes, we'll probably re-issue it with
    an extended set at some point. (Free upgrade to those who already bought it.)\r\n\r\n<em>What
    about additional levels of ornament for either the letters or the existing ornament
    - or both?</em>\r\n\r\nOriginally, I had thought I would return to it, there were
    so many ideas for more things and bits and possibilities. But I'm not so sure,
    now. I have so many other things I want to work on. I wouldn't say never, but
    I'm not feeling real Restrainty right now.\r\n\r\nNick asks an interesting question.
    And I'm not sure of my answer. I think if someone wanted alternate fronds I'd
    prefer they come to us to build it. But on the other hand I would be intrigued
    to see what would happen if the system were extended by others. I don't know,
    Nick. It's like how one feels about someone dating one's ex: a little weird, and
    yet uncertain whether one has a right to feel weird.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-marian"
  created: '2007-11-14 19:14:41'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "It seemed like with Tiro/Ross; supporting lots of languages would be the
    natural thing to do. On the other hand  the ornament makes it an even more tricky
    question than it might ordinarily be. I will be interested to see how he has done
    it.\r\n\r\n<cite> so many ideas for more things and bits and possibilities </cite>\r\n\r\nWhen
    I had looked last I started thinking about what Martin Majoor did with Scala &
    ornament; Scala Jewels\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/fontfont/ff-scala-jewels/\r\n\r\nIn
    any event it was thinking about the fronds and wondering if they grew fruit, and
    then recalling Martin's example that prompted my question.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-11-14 19:47:13'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "It's late for me to put in my two cents, but I would rather pay a higher
    price initially and be able to use the font \"normally\". I don't usually buy
    fonts for strictly personal use anymore. I would be more likely to pay $100 for
    the font without the extra restrictions in the EULA than to pay $45 for this EULA.
    Too much hassle for me. \r\n\r\nI do think it is a beautiful font and I would
    love to play with it.\r\n\r\nSharon\r\n\r\nEdit: After emails exchanges with Ross,
    it all sounds very reasonable and doable for working with the type of clients
    I work with."
  created: '2007-11-30 18:32:26'
date: '2007-11-03 03:22:22'
title: Unrestrained Restraint

---
