---
author:
  name: Ray Larabie
  picture: 129961
body: "What's that post all about in <em>Hottest</em> titled <em>is this sick & wrong?</em>.
  It seems to have been deleted.\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/38787"
comments:
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "Oh wait, <a href=\"http://72.14.253.104/search?q=cache:s2srp3ukXvkJ:typophile.com/node/38787+typophile+%22is+this+sick+and+wrong%22&hl=en&ct=clnk&cd=1&gl=ca&client=firefox-a\">here</a>:\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-07 22:41:46'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: At first I thought this thread was going to be about that "re-evaluating Gill
    Sans" article lol.
  created: '2007-11-07 23:25:37'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Hmmm\u2026that\u2019s not the only thread I\u2019ve seen disappear lately. "
  created: '2007-11-08 00:28:23'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'i took it down. i realized i had approached what i wanted to get at all wrong.
    will repost (perhaps) when i regain a bit of steam. '
  created: '2007-11-08 00:38:26'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>What\u2019s that post all about in Hottest titled is this sick & wrong?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    wondered about that too, and the other day tried to find it in vain. Now I know
    what happen...\r\n\r\n> <em>i took it down</em>\r\n\r\nPaul, with all due respect,
    I think that was a bad move on your part. Not just because I happen to have contributed
    to the discussion and now feel that it was time down the drain, but also because
    if everyone starts erasing their posts on whim this place will become too chaotic
    for my taste.\r\n\r\nI have the most respect for this site's moderators, but please
    next time use the powers that were entrusted to you a little more carefully. Thanks."
  created: '2007-11-08 01:21:32'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Oh no! I got you in trouble Paul. Sorry.
  created: '2007-11-08 01:40:28'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "The thread title is still on the Hottest list now, and still cannot be accessed.
    That's frustrating and confusing for readers and members alike. Please avoid these
    carrot and stick situations---is it too much to ask that moderators have the integrity
    to apologize when they make a mistake or mess something up?\r\n\r\nNo need to
    apologize Ray.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-11-08 09:47:24'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: yes, it was wrong and sick of me to take it down, but i did so intending it
    to be a temporary measure. all apologies. the thread is back up, but i modified
    my original post and the thread title. (is that fair play? anyone else can always
    do the same. leastways, i didn't convert all my posts to periods, as has been
    deemed as fair in other cases.)
  created: '2007-11-08 12:01:34'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>is that fair play? anyone else can always do the same.</em>\r\n\r\nJust
    because we can do it doesn't mean we should. I don't think I need to remind you
    that Typophile's biggest assets are its users and their contributions. If those
    disappear this webcommunity will completely loose its meaning of existence. \r\n\r\n>
    <em>i didn\u2019t convert all my posts to periods, as has been deemed as fair
    in other cases.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't know what others think but I actually find
    that quite annoying. If people are not sure if they want their posts to remain
    available, they should abstain themselves from contributing to the discussions.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    this reminds me of a claimed bug where posts that are edited move to the bottom
    of the thread. To me that's a feature rather than a bug, and I think it should
    remain that way. This will held users more accountable of their actions."
  created: '2007-11-08 19:43:17'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>they should abstain themselves from contributing to the discussions</em>\r\n\r\ni'll
    have to remember to do this more in the future. "
  created: '2007-11-08 19:52:57'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>BTW, this reminds me of a claimed bug where posts that are edited move
    to the bottom of the thread. To me that\u2019s a feature rather than a bug, and
    I think it should remain that way. This will held users more accountable of their
    actions.</cite>\r\n\r\nI beg to differ, Miguel. On the type ID board it was common
    practice to make the ID and then go back and insert the link. Now we find ourselves
    adding the link into an additional post, which is extra work for everyone (poster
    and reader) and falsely moves you up in \"Prolific Posters\". I also sometimes
    reread my posts and feel I could have worded something more elegantly. Or maybe
    I said something I wish I hadn't said. I think to then have the edited post slip
    to the bottom is a bad idea, since it can make the responses confusing. I'd rather
    see the edits be somehow visible, so that others can see what was edited, rather
    than messing around with the order."
  created: '2007-11-08 19:57:03'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: that's actually a great idea -- edited posts showing up as bold, or a color
    or something.
  created: '2007-11-08 20:07:37'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: If we were all on Leopard we could use "Time Machine" to see the unedted post
    :-)
  created: '2007-11-08 20:08:59'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>On the type ID board it was common practice to make the ID and then
    go back and insert the link.</em>\r\n\r\nI know, and in several occasions I didn't
    get first place because I always spent the time confirming the ID and looking
    up all the information to provide along with it :-( So, moving to the bottom upon
    adding the missing information is just fair ;-P\r\n\r\n> <em>I also sometimes
    reread my posts and feel I could have worded something more elegantly. Or maybe
    I said something I wish I hadn\u2019t said.</em>\r\n\r\nYou can always post again
    clarifying everything up. I feel that's the right way to do it, as that's what
    happens in real life. I mean, we all have our bad moments where we say things
    we shouldn't, but do we go around everyone's head and edit or delete their memories?
    \r\n\r\nThis is just my view, of course. I guess that online I abide to the same
    rules as I do in real life, instead of becoming a different (virtual) persona."
  created: '2007-11-08 20:45:28'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>This is just my view, of course. I guess that online I abide to the
    same rules as I do in real life, instead of becoming a different (virtual) persona.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn
    real life I am a 14 year old boy from Papua New Guinea, with a passion for motocross
    and death metal, but who yearns deep inside to be a girl, and wishes there really
    were unicorns. \r\n\r\nHere at Typophile, however, I get to pretend to be a graphic
    designer in New York City!"
  created: '2007-11-08 21:15:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: The reason I converted post to periods was a protest against a barrage of
    personal insults which the moderators let stand.
  created: '2007-11-08 21:22:13'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I guess that online I abide to the same rules as I do in real life, instead
    of becoming a different (virtual) persona.</em>\r\n\r\ni'm sure you try to be
    the same person online that you are in life, but i don't think anyone can ever
    really do this. i mean, are you the person you are to your friends, to your family,
    to your colleagues, to strangers?\r\n\r\ni don't think it's fair to liken a discussion
    board to a real discussion. In some ways they're the same but in some ways they're
    completely different. For one, a discussion board discussion can (hypothetically)
    exist forever and anyone who wants to join it can. discussions don't work this
    way in real life, therefore participants in an online discussion have incentive
    to present themselves and their ideas in the best light possible.\r\n\r\nYou feel
    (if i understand correctly) that once something is written, it should be forever.
    I don't feel that way. I don't mind that you have the original discussion opener
    in your mind, as you \"contributed\" to the original discussion. However, i think
    that if i can rephrase myself to make myself better understood by newcomers to
    the discussion, it is desirable to do so. i have edited myself several times writing
    this post, i don't see why i should have to stop doing so once i have pressed
    the \"post comment\" button, if i feel that i can further clarify my intentions.\r\n\r\ni'm
    human. i make mistakes. i should be able to correct them if i have a chance. i've
    made every effort to act ethically in this instance and throughout my interactions
    here on typophile. if you disagree with my actions, you're entitled to your opinion."
  created: '2007-11-08 21:24:03'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>i mean, are you the person you are to your friends, to your family,
    to your colleagues, to strangers?</em>\r\n\r\nYes, pretty much. Online I don't
    attempt to be something I'm not in real life. For me it's much harder to pretend
    than to be myself, and that applies to pretty much everything I do.\r\n\r\n> <em>For
    one, a discussion board discussion can (hypothetically) exist forever and anyone
    who wants to join it can. discussions don\u2019t work this way in real life</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    a good point.\r\n\r\n> <em>However, i think that if i can rephrase myself to make
    myself better understood by newcomers to the discussion, it is desirable to do
    so.</em>\r\n\r\nAbsolutely. And you can always do that in a new post, can't you?
    Adding a new post not only makes the discussion richer, IMO, but also avoids the
    risk of making a post downstream somewhat nonsense. That's why I think that kicking
    an edited post to the bottom of the thread is a safer and better option.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    am I right to believe that when moderators edit posts they don't get misplaced?"
  created: '2007-11-09 00:22:07'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "No moderators comments fall to the bottom just like everyone else's. \r\n\r\nI
    disagree that it is good that the comments fall to the bottom. It messes with
    the conversation. However, I do wish edited comments were colorized so we could
    see editing occurred. \r\n\r\nHow did this become a discussion about real life?
    I'm pretty sure most of us long time Typophile's aren't much different in real
    life. Once a nerd ... ;^)"
  created: '2007-11-09 00:55:48'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Online I don\u2019t attempt to be something I\u2019m not in real life.</em>\r\nnor
    do i, but i don't share everything with everyone.\r\n\r\n<em> >i mean, are you
    the person you are to your friends, to your family, to your colleagues, to strangers?\r\n\r\n>Yes,
    pretty much.</em>\r\n\r\nwell that's the difference between you and i, i guess.
    i'm much more guarded in my conversations with strangers than i would be with
    my close friends, and that's what online discussions are: conversations. sometimes
    i slip and become a bit more familiar than i would like, think about what i have
    written, and then wish i could take a bit back. i don't think that's wrong as
    long as i'm honest about changing your posts, as i have always tried to be."
  created: '2007-11-09 01:07:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Once a nerd ... ;^)</em>\r\n\r\nWhat is it with this nerd crap? We're
    just people who like our work.\r\nEverybody use a computer these days, you don't
    have to be an obsessive antisocial teenage boy to \"get\" it! "
  created: '2007-11-09 05:14:14'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"but i modified my original post and the thread title. (is that fair play?\"\r\n\r\nOnly
    if you are a politician."
  created: '2007-11-09 15:07:45'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Once a nerd ... ;^)\r\nWhat is it with this nerd crap? We\u2019re just
    people who like our work.\"\r\n\r\nHear, hear! We're not type nerds. We're type
    GEEKS. Let's get the terminology correct, please.\r\n\r\nWell, I'm a nerd, too,
    but definitely a geek.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-09 15:08:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "If you google nerd and geek you will see reference to the fact that these
    words have been used in opposite ways on the East and West coasts of the US, so
    far as whether the connotation was negative. These are recent words and how negative
    or positive they are seems to be somewhat fluid. \r\n\r\nI'm with Nick: just throw
    them into the trash heap of stale slang, and use some more expressive and precise
    language.\r\n\r\nAnd generally: we are not what we do, and our value is far more
    than our vocations and interests. Simplistic labels devalue people. Respect. "
  created: '2007-11-09 15:30:40'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Geek: a carnival performer who performs sensationally morbid or disgusting
    acts, as biting off the head of a live chicken.\r\n\r\n(from dictionary.com)"
  created: '2007-11-09 16:05:21'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: Ah. So Ozzy Osbourne was a geek back in the day.
  created: '2007-11-09 16:10:53'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: you betcha.
  created: '2007-11-09 16:17:27'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Simplistic labels devalue people. Respect.\"\r\n\r\nGeek is perhaps a loaded
    term. Some would use it condescendingly. Some would use it as a compliment. Some
    use it to make millions of dollars (Geek Squad)."
  created: '2007-11-09 16:21:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>a carnival performer</em>\r\n\r\n\"How does one get so low?\"\r\n--Tyrone
    Power as Stanton Carlisle in the 1947 film noir <em>Nightmare Alley.</em>"
  created: '2007-11-09 16:58:47'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Oh c''mon! I bundled myself in there when I said it. '
  created: '2007-11-09 20:38:58'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I guess we could just stick with \u201Ctypophile\u201D, but that might give
    non-designers the wrong idea. I\u2019m pretty sure my parents would think it has
    something to do with movies about letters starring Vanessa Del Rio."
  created: '2007-11-09 20:42:37'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite>Only if you are a politician.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't agree. Sometimes
    it helps to clarify what a thread is meant to be about to change the title or
    it's body text. Obviously it can be a slippery slope but I don't think it's wise
    to make a blanket statement. This is inevitably going to be a grey question requiring
    judgment - which will fail sometimes.\r\n\r\nI do agree with Miguel that when
    in doubt it is probably best not to change things because of the violence it does
    to the clarity of ideas being exchanged. I have definitely seen some threads here
    where the narrative became muck as a result of edits & retractions. I wasn't happy
    about that. I would like to have the opportunity to make up my own mind. Also
    what he said about<cite> 'only makes the discussion richer' </cite>and his point
    that in most cases clarity can be established as part of the flow rather than
    by re-writing a post, struck me as particularly pertinent and insightful. \r\n\r\nHowever
    all this talk about pretending and real life though strikes me as a little bit
    too much like unasked for armchair psychoanalysis. I would leave that out.\r\n\r\n<cite>
    What is it with this nerd crap?  geek etc. </cite>\r\n\r\nI too knew that Tiff
    meant this affectionately. It's a generational and/or regional thing I expect.
    No biggie. "
  created: '2007-11-09 22:40:16'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>That\u2019s why I think that kicking an edited post to the bottom of
    the thread is a safer and better option.</em>\r\n\r\nTo me that sounds very illogical.
    Discussions get very confusing because of it, since for example a post with an
    answer or reply end up <em>above</em> the post they were an answer or reply to.
    It almost becomes randomized; very inconvenient for a proper discussion. \r\n\r\nThe
    same goes for the suggestion that edits become bold or colored. That would render
    the ability to set something in bold yourself useless. Also posts will look like
    candybars with edits in color and attract unnecessary attention to themselves,
    looking chaotic.\r\n\r\nIf you want to somehow show that a post was edited: add
    an automatic sentence in a smaller pointsize saying the post was edited plus the
    date and the time. :)"
  created: '2007-11-10 00:45:43'
- author:
    name: David Sudweeks
    picture: 112594
  body: "Correct. Edits should be seen as edits and in the hierarchy of things, fit
    below the original content. This creates an additional troublesome problem with
    long data however, when both the original and edit are long (and dissimilar from
    one another). I think that's why this problem is so often deliberately ignored.
    Some existing solutions that generally work out a little better are: to only give
    the author of a comment the ability to add a brief editorial correction in addition
    to the original (that is marked as such or so understood); Allow unlimited editing
    under the clearly marked disclaimer 'This content has been modified' (eBay); Or
    allow a brief time window for editing, after which your only option (regarding
    that specific comment) is 'delete' (Facebook); To run a 'diff' on the two comments,
    and to display the original\u2014placing footnotes that correct it. That last
    one's hairy, and all of these are kind of under the assumption that the purpose
    of editing is to correct mistakes, rather than the full range of things one who
    edits may purpose to do (change mind, rewrite).\r\nBut it's a computer, and we've
    come to expect the tools we use to be somewhat silent and obedient. After rewriting
    several sentences, I don't want a computer telling me, \"So you're changing your
    mind? You must be. This data looks nothing like what was here before you clicked
    <em>edit</em>. Maybe you're just changing your tone after reading how poorly you
    got your point across on the first try. Either way, that's what my <em>rewrite
    comment</em> button is for. You should have clicked that one. If that's what you
    meant to click, I can arrange something\u2026\""
  created: '2007-11-11 05:11:23'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I think having a time limit on edits (a la Facebook) is a reasonable compromise.
    It lets you fix grammatical or spelling errors or quickly retract something you
    really wish you hadn't said.\r\n\r\nI also support a way to let the other readers
    know a post has been edited - either altering the look of the edited text or time
    stamping the edit. But slipping it down chronologically (which I believe Punchcut
    is planning to fix) just throws the entire thread off. "
  created: '2007-11-11 15:19:19'
- author:
    name: achipmunk
  body: Be both wrong and sick, ceratainly..
  created: '2007-11-11 16:43:16'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Maybe one can argue on ethical grounds that edits on \"General Discussions\"
    threads should be limited, because a thread mimics a conversation. I don't believe
    that this applies to forums that are more informational in nature (like \"Build\"
    for instance) where I would even favor unlimited edits, especially if all previous
    versions of a post could be accessed through a history mechanism (like on Wikipedia,
    where it is even possible to compare two versions of an article). \r\n\r\nMichel
    \r\n"
  created: '2007-11-12 00:10:22'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "A concrete way to do what I suggested above could be this: (1) under the
    avatar would appear all edit dates (2)  posts would be ordered according to their
    first date so that editing would shuffle nothing (3) the last version would be
    the one appearing when we normally read a thread (4) to read a previous version,
    we would just click on the corresponding date and it would appear in some other
    window.\r\n\r\nNo one would be lost with the change which could even be unnoticed;
    posts would not be cluttered with edition notes; what is written could not be
    \"unwritten\". Implementation may be relatively easy.\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2007-11-13 11:56:02'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Common practice on another site I frequent is to add a PS to your edited
    post, declaring what was edited (eg. <cite>Edit: Corrected spelling, added url.</cite>).
    It's a courtesy thing, right?\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO\r\n\r\nEdit:
    Added this PS to clarify\u2026"
  created: '2007-11-13 13:42:53'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I too think that would be the most logical approach, Bert.\r\n\r\nYou find
    something like that on most forums. I don't know why you want to invent something
    incredibly complicated, like some of the suggestions made here. Making a problem
    out of nothing, really. :)"
  created: '2007-11-13 22:18:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I often edit posts for grammar, spelling, typos and phrasing.\r\nThat wouldn't
    be so necessary if the comment formatting interface more resembled the finished
    post."
  created: '2007-11-13 22:38:09'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "> <cite>Making a problem out of nothing, really.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe time a
    post is made determines who is the first to identify a font. This is very important,
    is it not? :)"
  created: '2007-11-13 22:42:44'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Michel: Yes, I meant that people are suggesting all kinds of weird, complicated
    solutions for a problem that does not exist. The bug which \r\nkicks edited posts
    to the bottom should be fixed, and then everything is fine. That way the timestamp
    stays unedited (I guess, like it was before), and Type ID's are unaffected.\r\n\r\nNick:
    I Agree, most of the edits I do are fixes of strange sentence-breaks created by
    the board interface, which were not there in the comment formatting field (that
    happens basically all the time, so a automatically added notice saying 'edited
    at time/date' would be unnecessary for such edits)."
  created: '2007-11-14 00:59:14'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "> <cite>The bug which kicks edited posts to the bottom should be fixed</cite>\r\n\r\nA
    bug that has been there for more than 18 weeks becomes a problem. I'd like to
    understand the nature of the bug. I have no idea how posts are ordered. The timestamp
    of an edited post must change, since it is used to determine when a font was identified.
    If posts are ordered according to their timestamp, then edited posts must be moved
    to the end. Again, if ordering is determined by a date, the date of the first
    post must also be kept if we want posts not to be moved to the end; as a consequence,
    at least two dates must be kept for each post: that of the first post, and that
    of the last edit. Why then not keep at least those two posts? This would allow
    comparing the first post with the last edit, and I would feel better after editing
    a post because I never tell what I changed (usually typos, sometimes I add a few
    words because sometimes I tend to be cryptic). \r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2007-11-14 01:38:33'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I agree that pushing the post down probably isn't what I would have chosen.
    But it's not a choice now. Over time people may get used to the new system and
    until Typophile is ready to change it again I think that is the best course.
  created: '2007-11-14 01:53:27'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "This is a good example of the community policing itself. Paul did a no-no
    and the community has called him on it. I don't feel a need to reprimand Paul
    in a private email, since I know him well enough to know he only has the best
    intentions. And I hope Paul knows me well enough to take my light but public rap
    on his knuckles the right way. =)\r\n\r\nSo this community (and the moderators)
    know, the policy is that Typophile NEVER deletes posts. In rare cases we have
    unpublished them -- this can happen when matters fall into legal territory that
    puts the viability of Typophile in a compromising position. In every case those
    unpublished threads still exist in the content system. \r\n\r\nSo, to that point
    James, if you're calling out threads that seem to have gone missing now is the
    time for the moderator(s) to make things right or provide a compelling reason
    back to the community as to the reason for unpublishing something."
  created: '2007-11-14 02:02:09'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "The good people at Punchcut have said they plan to fix the bug that pushes
    edited posts to the bottom. \r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/37281\r\n\r\nWhy
    it's taken so long... I don't know."
  created: '2007-11-14 03:22:00'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Thank you good people at Punchcut!
  created: '2007-11-14 04:19:51'
date: '2007-11-07 22:38:27'
node_type: forum
title: Is this wrong and sick?

---
