---
author:
  name: kiko
  picture: 112433
body: "Hi All,\r\n\r\nI\xB4m currently working on a font that i would like to try
  adding small caps to it. Is there any particular drawing method to create them using
  the pre-draw capitals? Something like scaling down the capitals and then exterpolate
  them maybe? Is there any way to optimize this task or do i have to draw them from
  zero?\r\n\r\nAs a beginer, any expert help or tips on this would be greatly apreciated.\r\n\r\nThanks
  in advance\r\nRegards\r\n     "
comments:
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I would say - but I'm no pro myself - that you can safely use your existing
    capitals. \r\n\r\nThere are probably designers that use Multiple Master technology
    and such to extrapolate the small weight increase that scaled down caps need to
    work well, but I think you can also use the Bold Filter in FontLab (or the Expand
    Stroke option in Illustrator) to achive something similar. \r\nHaving said that,
    extrapolations done with these options do need a lot of editing afterwards, because
    the Expand Stroke/Bold Filter are usually pretty destructive to the lettershapes."
  created: '2007-11-08 02:13:17'
- author:
    name: kiko
    picture: 112433
  body: "Thanks for the reply. I see your point, i\xB4m trying to avoid getting to
    multiple master tools cause i\xB4m still not confortable using them. \r\nBut as
    you said, although the long editing it takes afterwards using the expand stroke/bold
    filter, perhaps it will take less time than have to draw them from scratch?   "
  created: '2007-11-08 02:33:16'
- author:
    name: solfeggio
    picture: 112465
  body: "Take a look at the \"How To\" section of the wiki and, in particular, the
    entry \"Deriving Small Capitals from Capitals\" http://typophile.com/node/14255\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nErnie"
  created: '2007-11-08 02:35:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "See the [[http://typophile.com/node/14255?|Typowiki 'How to' on this]], where
    John Hudson explains a process using the FontLab interpolation tool (not multiple
    masters) to make small caps from caps.  \r\n\r\nUnfortunately some of the nice
    illustrations have gone missing. Paul Hunt, thanks for all your work on the Typowiki.
    Do you know what's happened there--why some of the illustrations have vanished? "
  created: '2007-11-08 02:36:18'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "When I'm making \"serviceable\" small caps from full caps, I don't scale
    the full caps proportionally, as recommended by John Hudson -- I usually have
    about a 4 percentage difference -- if the vertical is scaled to 62 percent, then
    the horizontal is scaled to 66 percent. This will make you do some work with round
    letters (C, G, O, Q for sure), but will give a better overall balance.\r\n\r\nThe
    weight increase I used in Fontographer was 9 units, but FontLab seems to require
    less. Don't forget to move them back up to the baseline (half the \"embolding\"
    value), and rework the left & right sidebearings. And don't forget to \"remove
    overlap.\"\r\n\r\nThat's the start, now clean them up.\r\n\r\nP.S. \"serviceable\"
    meant I could get away with them in about a 10-point setting, in running text.
    The most common reason I made them up was to get a set of italic small caps. Sizing
    there is relatively easy; match existing roman small caps. If you're starting
    with the roman, size the \"new\" small cap \"x\" just a bit taller than the lower-case
    \"x\". I let the size change when \"embolding,\" so the final size comparison
    has to wait till you've done that. Now check things with an \"E.\" If both the
    \"X\" and \"E\" look right, most of the alphabet should feel right, so highlight
    all & have at it. "
  created: '2007-11-08 03:02:24'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "There are two helpers for this:\r\n\r\nIf your font is MultipleMaster, with
    a weight axis, try Tim Ahrens' RMX Tuner:\r\n<a href=\"http://justanotherfoundry.com/tools/RMX/\">http://justanotherfoundry.com/tools/RMX/</a>\r\nThis
    gives the best results that an automatic method can provide today, and should
    be your first choice.\r\n\r\nIf the font has a single axis only, you may try the
    Glyph Tweaker script:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.kltf.de/kltf_otproduction.htm\">http://www.kltf.de/kltf_otproduction.htm</a>\r\n[Scroll
    down a bit. Requires RoboFab and Dialog Kit.]\r\nFirst measure basic stem widths
    and height of your caps. Then run the script and fill in these values, plus stem
    widths and height of the small caps.\r\nThe script relies on FLS' Bold function,
    so the outlines are only as good as this function allows. If you switch on FontAudit,
    you will see what I mean. Especially diagonals need corrections -- Bold cares
    for x and y directions only. Still this is a good starting point to get the proportions.
    I put these into the uppercase's mask layer and adjust uppercase by moving nodes
    or with John Hudson's method to match the automatically generated proportions.\r\nIn
    essence, what this script does is combining the operations which Charles Ellertson
    describes: scaling and bolding. I did not want to calculate scaling and bolding
    factors myself each time, and put the according formulas into a script.\r\n\r\nCharles
    -- <cite>The weight increase I used in Fontographer was 9 units, but FontLab seems
    to require less.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, it is: 2 units FOG Change Weight = 1 unit
    FLS Bold."
  created: '2007-11-08 11:24:42'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Paul Hunt, thanks for all your work on the Typowiki. Do you know what\u2019s
    happened there\u2014why some of the illustrations have vanished?</em>\r\n\r\nhmmm.
    i <em>believe</em> that most of these were just available of attachments to the
    wiki post and i never got around to incorporating them all into the body of the
    text. i think the attachments must have been lost with the latest update of typophile,
    but i can't be certain that that is what did it."
  created: '2007-11-08 12:24:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I recently started with John Hudson''s method--which he suggests only as
    a starting point for later adjustments--and have continued to use the FontLab
    Interpolation tool for curves, as well as widening stems by hand. However, I didn''t
    follow Hudson''s model exactly, as I made the small caps a bit wider, as Charles
    suggests and as I believe is traditional. I don''t know how much wider as it just
    did it by eye. Also I adjusted relative weights of vertical arches, corrected
    diagonals and joints, etc by eye. I don''t know how much adjustment is needed
    if you use the RMX tuner, but next time around, after I have made my weights MM
    compatible, I will probably use it as a starting point.  '
  created: '2007-11-08 15:32:22'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "A correction:\r\n\"If the font has a single axis only, you may try the Glyph
    Tweaker script\"\r\nshould be\r\n\"If the font has a single <cite>master</cite>
    only, ...\"\r\n\r\nBill -- <cite>I don\u2019t know how much adjustment is needed
    if you use the RMX tuner</cite>\r\n\r\nBest is to play with it and try different
    settings until you find some which give a nice result. Whether you make many adjustments
    or not depends on whether you want the small caps to be more or less like the
    uppercase (with adjustment of weight and width), or want them to differ in some
    details. For a Caslon I can imagine that some distinctive features are nice."
  created: '2007-11-08 16:48:06'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nThe \"4 percent\" is just sort of an average I noticed as I
    was making up small caps over a number of years -- usually in italic, sometimes
    in roman. As you say, you have to make even these initial decisions by eye --
    or at least, I do, and it seems you as well. The scaling values pretty much depend
    on the lowercase letters; at least, for the small caps that are to set in running
    text. As I remember, I've used as little as 59 percent with vertical, and probably
    as much as 75 percent.\r\n\r\nFor another set of \"display\" small caps, you have
    more freedom. If you have, or the library has, Adrian Wilson's <em>The Design
    of Books</em>, look at the \"special two-letter small caps\" for Caslon Old Face.
    In my copy, it is page 39. These sorts were available for just a few fonts in
    the Linecaster days.\r\n\r\nCharles"
  created: '2007-11-08 17:43:08'
- author:
    name: kiko
    picture: 112433
  body: "Thanks a lot people for all the tips and links.\r\n\r\nAfter some experiments,
    a question still and always persists\u2026 Using the interpolation method described
    by John Hudson, or even using the bold effect i still can\xB4t understand how
    do i get the overall width of the smcp generated glyph proportionally to the uppercase
    letter. How can this be done?  Do i have to calculate the glyph overall width
    manually and than fill that space afterwards? \r\n\r\nHope I\xB4m making any sense.\r\nHow
    do I calculate the overall glyph width of the small caps proportionally to the
    capitals is what\xB4s troubling me most, even knowing that the small caps will
    be wider. Always have to do some math!\r\n\r\nPs. Those missing illustrations
    probably could help...\r\n\r\nThanks in advance  \r\nRegards\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-08 19:44:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Charles, I have in an old specimen book of "The Linotype Caslons" that has
    a list of chracters for two of their Caslons "in Two-Letter Fonts with italic
    and small caps."  What does that mean, "Two-Letter Fonts?" Is that something about
    the matrices?
  created: '2007-11-09 02:16:51'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nI've never actually held special no. 5 mats in my hand, and
    Bill Loftin (Heritage Printers) has finally shut down, so I can't ask. But yes,
    I think that meant they were duplexed mats -- roman and italic on one matrix.\r\n\r\nNote
    the the roman small capitals on these matrices are a bit larger than what you
    see in the regular font; I imagine they were intended for display. A good supporting
    argument for Adam's notion that small caps should be a separate font. I'd argue
    (& for all I know, Adam always felt this way) that this idea works when the small
    caps are for display, but another set of small capitals should be included in
    the basic fonts for running text."
  created: '2007-11-09 02:37:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I have thought of doing the display small caps as 3/4 height, like Trajan.
    This is working on the theory that they will be used in display with caps, whereas
    in text size it will be used within text. Does that make sense? I''ve done the
    text size small caps a bit bigger than x-height. Caslon''s are at x-height, but
    I think they look better a bit bigger. '
  created: '2007-11-09 02:56:21'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<emThis is working on the theory that they will be used in display with caps,
    whereas in text size it will be used within text. Does that make sense?</em>\r\n\r\nMaybe,
    it probably depends on the (text) designer. When I use small caps in display,
    it is usually for a subhead -- usually a first-order subhead. Full caps are usually
    too big at text size; if you set them smaller, the size is right but the weight
    too thin. Small caps at text size have the right weight, but are too small. A
    set of small caps just a bit larger than \"regular\" or x-height small caps would
    be about ideal.\r\n\r\nTruth to tell, I try to avoid small caps for subheads,
    because of my belief that the correct letterspacing of them (and the attendant
    word spacing) varies with how many words there are. Frequently, the number of
    words in subheads varies considerably, authors just don't think of all the problems
    they give us designers ;-).\r\n\r\nSmall caps can work quite well in running heads,
    sometime they too vary considerably in length, but there are far fewer chapters
    than subheads.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure how a designer that favors cap-small cap in
    display would feel; I confess that design leaves me cold, but maybe that's just
    saying it doesn't fit my temperment and meager skill -- I rely mainly on space
    and color when I design."
  created: '2007-11-09 03:23:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thanks, Charles, that''s very interesting. When I get around to it, I''ll
    test out the options you mention to get a feel for what works in the different
    situations. '
  created: '2007-11-09 04:45:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "When I was working as an art director, I liked to use small caps, but for
    most fonts I found them much too short and small.\r\nSo I always make the small
    caps in my fonts quite a bit taller than the x-height, so that they work OK in
    all-small-caps settings, and as acronyms. I suspect that many type designers make
    them to look good in a caps-with-small-caps setting, or to match a paragraph of
    caps-with-small-caps against a paragraph of upper and lower case, in a specimen.
    But that's not how they are generally used.\r\n\r\nI have recently discovered
    another reason for bigger small caps -- Cyrillic. Because the lower case Cyrillic
    (especially in Russian) has the look of small caps, with capital letterforms and
    few extenders, it's necessary to bump up the size of the small caps in a typeface
    to get adequate differentiation."
  created: '2007-11-09 05:04:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Some of the comments in this thread about proportional scaling and width
    may be confusing to some people, since the illustrations for the how-to have disappeared.
    In my method, the width gain is all in the stem weight, which works pretty well
    perhaps because of the kind of proportions my uppercase letters seem to have.
    One of the first stages of the process is to make a mask of the caps scaled to
    the smallcap height that will serve as a guide to the <em>internal</em> width
    of the smallcaps. As Charles notes, you may be more pleased if this scaling is
    non-uniform: scaling the width less than the height if you want relatively squarer
    smallcaps from relatively narrower uppercase letters. My uppercase letters tend
    to be pretty wide, so I''ve not found this kind of adjustment necessary in most
    designs.'
  created: '2007-11-09 06:19:44'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Notan strikes again!\r\n\r\nJohn passed his method on to me and used Jenson
    as an example. It was much more illustrative of the advantages of his technique
    since Jenson is all curves and no straights. It's worked out well for me too Kiko
    FWIW.\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2007-11-09 16:03:44'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>Unfortunately some of the nice illustrations have gone missing.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    think I have the original illustrations saved on my old computer. I'll try to
    digg them up and place them back on the page."
  created: '2007-11-09 19:15:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Speaking of Notan, deriving the proportions of the small caps with one uniform
    rule throughout the alphabet isn''t the only way, and perhaps for some designs
    not even the best way.   '
  created: '2007-11-09 19:26:59'
- author:
    name: kiko
    picture: 112433
  body: "Miguel,\r\n\r\nAs a beginer those illustrations could be very helpfull, most
    because using interpolation it\xB4s something i\xB4m not to familiar with.\r\n\r\nThanks
    in advance\r\nRegards \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-09 19:40:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>but shouldn\xB4t that space be larger in the small caps since they\xB4re
    steams are bolder?</em>\r\n\r\nAgain, much depends on the design of your original
    uppercase letters and also, of course, on the height of your smallcaps. My typical
    smallcaps are noticeably taller than the lowercase x-height, but with the same
    vertical stem weight at the lowercase letters (usually based on the width of the
    lowercase i stem). With these sorts of proportions, and the typical width of my
    uppercase letters, this approach produces the kind of smallcaps I find most useful.
    Optically, it means that the smallcap text is a touch lighter and more open in
    appearance than lowercase, which I think is a benefit, especially since na\xEFve
    users cannot be relied upon to letterspace smallcaps. If any of these variables
    are different, then the scaling factor used to develop what I think of as the
    width-guide should be adjusted.\r\n\r\nA good test of the width-guide is the smallcap
    O. If one has a very round, Garamondish uppercase O, then a non-uniform width-guide
    -- i.e. one in which the uppercase is scaled less horizontally than vertically
    to determine the interior widths -- could easily result in a smallcap O that is
    too wide. Here is Constantia, showing the proportional relationship of uppercase,
    smallcaps and lowercase, with the smallcaps derived from the uppercase using a
    uniform width guide. I wouldn't want the smallcap O getting any wider than this.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/HHhOOo_4674.gif]\r\n\r\nBill:
    <em>deriving the proportions of the small caps with one uniform rule throughout
    the alphabet isn\u2019t the only way, and perhaps for some designs not even the
    best way.</em>\r\n\r\nTrue, but if the regularised approach produces an unfortunate
    result for one of the smallcap letters it may also be an indication that something
    is wrong with the uppercase.\r\n\r\nBy the way, not everyone starts with the uppercase.
    When designing Cambria, Jelle Bosma started with the smallcaps and then designed
    the uppercase. I suspect this might be his usual procedure.\r\n\r\nPS. Note that
    the illustration in this post does not show kerning."
  created: '2007-11-09 21:38:47'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: 'John is quite right about certain full caps going too wide when scaled to
    small caps, especially when the scaling isn''t linear. Having said that, I find
    it easier to rework CDGOQ (& maybe B, P, R and U) -- take a few units out of each
    side. This may just be a personal foible, although I make the small caps  "smaller"
    than what John indicates, and that may be part of it. The thing to remember is
    that the first, formulaic step is just a beginning; I don''t think you get all
    the way to a final set of small caps through any formula. With that in mind, whatever
    "first steps" work best for you is the way to go. '
  created: '2007-11-09 22:11:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">A good test of the width-guide is the smallcap O\r\n\r\nFor my design, based
    on Caslon, the small cap O looked better scaled not as wide as the H was scaled.
    I just checked and in Merganthaler Linotype's Caslon Old Face (1923) they do the
    same thing. I can't remember whether I checked what they did while doing mine,
    but in any case I think it works well. I don't have any 18th century Caslon model
    for the small caps, so I don't know what Caslon did--except that I can guarantee
    it won't be consistent! \r\n\r\nI also just checked Adobe Garamond and Minion.
    In both of these the O is proportionally a bit wider--not narrower--than the H,
    compared to the caps. And in neither of these fonts are the counters as wide as
    they would be following John's guidelines.\r\n\r\nMy conclusion is that there
    are no hard and fast rules here, and one can do it successfully different ways.
    \r\n\r\nedit: I cross-posted with Charles. I see that he also reduces the rounds
    a bit compared to the straights. "
  created: '2007-11-09 22:25:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>My conclusion is that there are no hard and fast rules here, and
    one can do it successfully different ways.</em>\r\n\r\nDefinitely. I was suggesting
    <em>a</em> method for approaching smallcap design (one that that captures the
    relative proportions of the uppercase letters and translates them into the smallcaps).
    I certainly didn't intend it to be taken as any kind of rule."
  created: '2007-11-10 03:19:36'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "FYI, the illustrations were restored.\r\nHere's the link again: [[SmallCaps
    How-To|Deriving Small Cap from Caps]]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-10 06:13:00'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Jumping in a bit late here...\r\n\r\nKarsten,\r\n<cite>If your font is MultipleMaster,
    with a weight axis, try Tim Ahrens\u2019 RMX Tuner</cite>\r\n\r\nThe RMX Tuner
    is not intended for creating 'sets' of reduced glyphs (such as small caps).\r\nThe
    most suitable of the Remix Tools for creating small caps is the RMX Scaler. You
    can simply select your capitals, run the Scaler and create the small caps with
    your preferred suffix. Since you can precisely control the weight, width and height,
    and add spacing it is a 'one-stop-shop' and often does not require any further
    corrections at all.\r\n\r\nIf you then realise you want to change the horizontal
    propoertions of the small caps (e.g. making the B or S wider) you can easily do
    so with the Tuner. \r\n\r\nWilliam,\r\n<cite>I don\u2019t know how much adjustment
    is needed if you use the RMX tuner</cite>\r\nI suggest you open a preview window
    next to the glyph window so you can instantly see the effect and choose the scaling
    and weight intuitively and visually. I believe this method is better and quicker
    than any other digital tool available. Note that if you use the Scaler right after
    you have used the Tuner the adjustment values are entered automatically."
  created: '2007-11-10 11:06:21'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: thanks for restoring the images, miguel! i'm glad you had the foresight to
    download them all.
  created: '2007-11-10 11:50:02'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<cite>I don\u2019t know how much adjustment is needed if you use the RMX
    tuner</cite>\r\n\r\nOh, I realised you probably mean how much <cite>subsequent
    manual adjustment</cite> is needed. This is the crucial question, of course.\r\nI
    personally did not make any manual corrections at all to the small caps of my
    own [[http://justanotherfoundry.com/Facit/index.htm|Facit]].\r\nHowever, I thought
    that although my tools are suitable for my own designs I should test it with another
    typeface that has got manually designed small caps already.\r\nI built Meta as
    an MM font and created small caps automatically, and then compared them to the
    \"real\" ones:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/RMX_Meta_SC_4412.gif]\r\n\r\ngrey:
    Meta Small Caps, black line: automatically generated from the regular and bold
    capitals.\r\n\r\nNot surprisingly, the ink traps are more emphasized in the original
    small caps but in general. However, I think this test demonstrates that my method
    gives very appropriate results and can save a great deal of time. \r\n"
  created: '2007-11-10 13:38:21'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Regarding the question whether all of the small caps can or should be reduced
    in the same way (i.e. retaining the horizontal proportions of the capitals), I
    have made some investigations. Instead of Latin small caps I chose the cyrillic
    lowercase letters which are \"small caps\" (please forgive this simplification).\r\nI
    reproduced the lowercase of Alexander Tarbeev's Den Haag (shown below) and Gauge
    with the RMX tools letter by letter and noted down the required horizontal scale
    factor (the veritcal one being constant):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/RMX_DenHaag_6742.gif]\r\n\r\nThis
    is just a first experiment in this direction but with further research it might
    be possible to establish a general \"key\" for cyrillic that then helps western
    designers to choose the right proportions. Or maybe one would find out that every
    type designer has their own, personal, quantifiable style?"
  created: '2007-11-10 13:42:04'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Hi Tim, re RMX Scaler vs RMX Tuner -- sorry, I tend to mix up names!
  created: '2007-11-10 13:46:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Tim, I like what you propose, but I really think the lowercase Cyrillic letters
    need to be considered independently of smallcaps. Yes, many of them are based
    on the same shapes as the uppercase forms, but the very fact that they need to
    proportionally harmonise with some lowercase letters that are differentiated from
    the uppercase letters requires them to assume a different set of proportions.
    It is helpful to bear in mind that Cyrillic was a unicameral (uncial) alphabet
    for a lot longer than either Latin or Greek, and that its conversion into a bicameral
    alphabet happened relatively suddenly. So what you see in the lowercase alphabet
    are not ''smallcaps'', but uncial letters writ small, while the uppercase represent
    the same uncial letters writ large. This is a very different evolutionary path
    than that which produced smallcaps from uppercase letters (brilliantly explored
    in Margaret Smith''s essay ''The Pre-history of "Small Caps": from All Caps to
    Smaller Capitals to Small Caps'', in volume 22 of the <em>Journal of the Printing
    Historical Society</em> (UK)). The term smallcaps presumes the pre-existence of
    uppercase letters; the division of an uncial script into a bicameral alphabet
    is a different process. When the bicameral alphabet introduces foreign letterforms
    not native to the preceding uncial script, as the Petrine reform of Cyrillic did,
    then the proportions of the two cases of letters adapt to their new partners,
    and lose the relationship that they might have had to each other. This, of course,
    makes true Cyrillic smallcaps possible.'
  created: '2007-11-11 04:35:51'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Tim: <cite>\u201Csmall caps\u201D (please forgive this simplification).</cite>\r\nJohn:
    <cite>what you see in the lowercase alphabet are not \u2019smallcaps\u2019</cite>\r\n\r\nJohn,
    I am not so naive as to think the cyrillic lowercase is the same thing as small
    caps. I had hoped my little note in parentheses would make that clear.\r\nHowever,
    I believe it is not senseless to study the proportional relations between cyrillic
    uppercase and lowercase, and even relate that to latin small caps. For example,
    the reason why the \u0432 (lowercase ve) is proportionally wider in the lowercase
    (see the above illustration) is certainly the same as the reason why a latin small
    cap B would be made relatively wider than letters with only one counter."
  created: '2007-11-11 11:57:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "But in the design of a Cyrillic type, the width of the lowercase \u0432 needs
    to be coordinated with the width of the lowercase \u0430. So this is a very good
    example of what I am talking about. Yes, the reasons why \u0432 proportionally
    wider in the lowercase than in the uppercase is related to the reason why a smallcap
    B is proportionally wider than the uppercase, but the precise width of the \u0432
    is determined relative to other lowercase letters, most importantly \u0430, not
    relative to the uppercase. This explains why an actual Cyrillic smallcap \u0412
    might well have a different proportional relationship to the uppercase than the
    lowercase has. These comments are based on a lot of experience designing Cyrillic
    types. Smallcaps can be derived systematically from uppercase letters, but lowercase
    letters need to be designed independently, proportionally relative to each other.
    So this is why I think it is a mistake to look at the particular proportions of
    lowercase Cyrillic letters as something that can be related to smallcaps, because
    I think these proportions involve other influences.\r\n\r\nA good experiment would
    be to apply your approach to typefaces that include Cyrillic smallcaps, so you
    can show a three-way relationship. This would reveal the difference between the
    proportions of actual smallcaps and lowercase letters relative to the uppercase."
  created: '2007-11-11 21:33:16'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Thanks for sharing your experience, John.\r\n\r\nI am a bit confused. Do
    you check each of the Cyrillic lowercase letters that can be regarded reduced
    versions of their uppercase counterpart individually against the a, or do you
    also consider the horizontal proportions <cite>within</cite> the letters that
    can be regarded reduced versions of their uppercase counterpart?\r\n\r\nThe latter
    is exactly what I was interested in. I wanted to know in which way the proportions
    <cite>within</cite> the uppercase differ from the proportions <cite>within</cite>
    the lowercase. That's also what my above diagram is about, isn't it? The diagram
    is supposed to visualise the relation between the intra-uppercase proportions
    and the intra-lowercase proportions."
  created: '2007-11-11 23:24:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Do you check each of the Cyrillic lowercase letters that can be regarded
    reduced versions of their uppercase counterpart individually against the a, or
    do you also consider the horizontal proportions within the letters that can be
    regarded reduced versions of their uppercase counterpart?</em>\r\n\r\nThis is
    the thing: I <em>don't</em> regard them as reduced versions of their uppercase
    counterparts. I think it is a mistake to regard them as reduced versions of their
    uppercase counterparts, just as it would be a mistake to regard the uppercase
    letters as big versions of the lowercase.\r\n\r\nI understand your diagram, but
    what I am saying is that it misses the input from the other lowercase letters.
    This input is important, especially in the case of an Cyrillic designed to harmonise
    with an existing Latin design in which several key letters are inherited from
    the Latin (thanks to Peter the Great!). It also misses the cumulative input derived
    for iterations of the lowercase design, i.e. not just the influence of lowercase-distinct
    architecture in some letters, but the influence of the cumulative design decisions
    about lowercase letters.\r\n\r\nI design the Cyrillic lowercase and the uppercase
    largely independently -- as independently as the Latin lowercase and uppercase
    --, and unlike smallcaps the proportions of lowercase letters are not derived
    from uppercase. Within the set of letters that share similar uppercase and lowercase
    architecture, the same kind of proportional awareness is important <em>within
    the individual cases</em>. For instance, the variation of internal width in the
    sequence \u0438\u043D\u043F\u045F\u0446\u0448\u0449 is similar to that in the
    sequence \u0418\u041D\u041F\u040F\u0426\u0428\u0429, but they are arrived at independently,
    checking lowercase against lowercase and uppercase against uppercase."
  created: '2007-11-12 05:08:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Is there any way to optimize this task or do i have to draw them from
    zero?</em>\r\n\r\nI'd say it depends on the typeface.\r\nYou can start by doing
    global transformations to the upper case glyphs.\r\n1. Scale down: Actions>Contour>Scale\r\n2.
    Add weight: Actions>Effects>Bold\r\nIn either of these, you may add slightly more
    to the x axis.\r\n\r\nFor serif fonts, cutting, pasting, and dragging can also
    be useful methods.\r\n\r\nA good way to see what's working is to compare, in the
    Metrics window, those letters that are basically the same in all three cases,
    C, O, S, V, W, X.\r\n\r\nIt's also a good idea to test your small caps, in a piece
    of text in InDesign or Quark, against a typeface of similar style.\r\nTry it in
    a piece of text with \"U.S.\" or similar ambiguous acronyms, and with all-small-cap
    lead-ins to text paragraphs.\r\n\r\nIn page layout applications, you can get a
    feel for the transformation required by making faux small caps using scaling and
    stroking.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-12 05:13:35'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Y'know... it's kind of weird when it takes a spammer to unearth interesting
    stuff. So much for my Mad Google Skillz.
  created: '2011-02-14 20:02:17'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Now you got me worried, T\xE9 ...\r\n\r\nIn case the forum deletes that post:
    it links to no less than six \"interesting\" links: some sort of diet, online
    poker, and betting sites. I'm hoping it's the diet that attracted you."
  created: '2011-02-14 20:48:06'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: So's to unworry you... it's the thread's subject. I have been wondering off
    and on about the making of small-caps.
  created: '2011-02-14 21:18:23'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "It's tricky stuff, this is.\r\n\r\nFor the characters I need for phonetics,
    I had to make matching small caps of a handful of characters, which needed to
    be able to blend in with actual lowercase characters -- the small caps characters
    depict valid phonemes on their own. Usually, one only needs to worry about caps-and-small
    caps.\r\nI also need some of these reversed, upside-down, or both (rotated!),
    which may have side effects on the stroke contrasts. Stuff like\r\n\r\nv\u025B\u0280y
    d\u0280o\u028Al, m\u02C8l\u0254\u02D0\u02D0\u02D0\u02D0d\r\n\r\n.. to top it off,
    there are also a couple of \"required\" superscripts. Same problem there: I'd
    prefer nice, fat, same-stroke-width ones over regular-made-smallers. I already
    found out \"just\" vertically shrinking a lowercase 'h' to get '\u02B0' doesn't
    quite <em>do</em> it for me."
  created: '2011-02-14 21:56:21'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: I need to remind about some of the suggestions here. :-)
  created: '2012-12-29 21:33:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I have yet to read most of this great thread, but very recently I started
    realizing that the tradition of making the smallcaps wider (relatively) than the
    fullcaps might be misguided. I could explain why, but instead let me ask:\r\n\r\nWhat
    is the rationale for that?\r\n\r\nAnd, what is wrong with this?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TMF_sc_5481.gif]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-30 01:03:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>What is the rationale for that?</em>\r\n\r\nTo properly balance colour
    between the uppercase, smallcaps and lowercase. \r\n"
  created: '2012-12-30 02:21:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Why do you need <em>width</em> to do that?\r\nIs my setting above imbalanced?\r\n\r\nI
    think wider smallcaps are a metal legacy (where you simply used a smaller size,
    and <em>everything</em> was wider).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-30 02:45:44'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Well, you're H, and E are wide, based on your U and N. Something slightly
    wrong with the C, O and D, too. I could fix it, like I have to do so much type
    the designers gefuch... but no...\r\n\r\nBTW, one reason you make small cps slightly
    wider is so they can hold their own against the lower case letters. They often
    appear on the same line. Wouldn't look right if a small cap \"O\", for example,
    wasn't a bit wider than a lower case \"o\"...\r\n\r\nIt is almost like you need
    three sets of small caps. One for display, one for run-in acronyms, and one for
    phonetics. That's a bit much to ask, so compromises arise."
  created: '2012-12-30 04:05:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You're talking about my proportions etc. in general (irrespective of what
    size of caps we're talking about) which -I hope- are like that for a reason (just
    like I make my tittles \"too big\"). Here I'm interesting in figuring out if smallcaps
    are in fact better (or at least not worse) when they have the same proportions
    as the fullcaps. Maybe I should use a different font, something mainstream that
    would allow people to focus on this question. Let me see...\r\n\r\n<blockquote>so
    they can hold their own against the lower case letters.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat's
    certainly true in the case of old-school smallcaps that are at x-height (or only
    slightly taller). The way many people (including myself) like to make smallcaps
    these days is quite a bit higher than that, which makes confusion with the lc
    moot. Of course this doesn't work when the x-height is too big (not leaving enough
    room between it and the fullcap height) but to me such fonts aren't really text
    fonts.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>it is almost like you need three sets of small caps.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAt
    least.  :-)\r\nDo you know about FF Atma? And Ernestine has one extra set too.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-30 04:20:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The thing is that to do this test I need a font family with close weights,
    and since I don't actually <em>use</em> fonts much I came up blank... But it's
    easy enough to try it yourself: set something like \"THE MICROFOUNDRY\" in the
    Regular at some size; change the \"HE\", \"ICRO\" and \"OUNDRY\" to the Demi weight,
    then reduce the size* of that text until the color matches the \"T\", \"M\" and
    \"F\". Adjust the letterspacing as you see fit. Then tell me what you see wrong
    with it.\r\n\r\n* Unless the font has an unusually large x-height you'll stay
    clear of any potential confusion with the lc.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-30 04:43:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Hrant, note that I said balance colour between the uppercase, smallcaps <em>and
    lowercase.</em> There is a threeway relationship to be established. Often, if
    smallcaps are proportionally similar to the uppercase then they will appear too
    narrow relative to lowercase letters, just as uppercase letters would appear too
    wide if their proportions were similar to typical smallcap letters. As you reduce
    the height of caps, you need to compensate horizontally for the reduction of counter
    space, especially for a letter like B. Of course, I am talking about text faces
    in text settings.
  created: '2012-12-30 04:56:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You might be right. I'll test it out tomorrow.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-30 05:15:25'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>I think wider smallcaps are a metal legacy (where you simply
    used a smaller size, and everything was wider).</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI think you're
    mistaken about the method of printing small caps in the letterpress era. \r\n\r\nI
    also think you should refine your test string, since /T/M/F/ just happen to have
    relatively small counters or semi-enclosed spaces. But anyway, here's your test
    in my font-in-progress, Millennial, FWIW.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_4737.png]\r\n\r\nI
    think the lower line (true small caps) fit better with the lowercase, don't you?"
  created: '2012-12-30 05:40:07'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "@Hrant: Of course small capitals are larger because they have to work smaller.\r\nMost
    of what has been developed and learned in centuries of lead type setting is not
    strictly related to the printing technology. You can see how small capitals work
    better with a wider proportions by decreasing the size of your own typeface. In
    fact, you can see they work better even if you are writing by hand."
  created: '2012-12-30 11:31:39'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Not that'd I'd expect anyone to go to all the work, but theoretically...\r\n\r\nThe
    small caps needed for phonetics should be drawn up special. They also have a Unicode
    code point, unlike small caps generally. They need to blend into the general lower-case
    letters, and be kerned with other phonetic & lower case sorts, but probably not
    against each other.\r\n\r\nThe small caps to be switched in by an OT feature probably
    should be the ones used in running text, for acronyms & abbreviations. Depending
    on your school of thought, that has implications for height & width. Kerning is
    only needed against each other and punctuation, & maybe full caps, though that's
    another issue (used in some legal styles like \"Harvard Blue,\" etc.).\r\n\r\nThe
    \"Display\" small caps are those intended for use in a subhead, chapter number,
    that sort of thing. Maybe even a TABLE or FIGURE head... It can be argued that
    these do not have to mix with lower case letters, and can have different height/width
    properties. They probably have to work with full capitals. One way to deal with
    them would be to use a separate font, as Adam Twardoch has mooted from time to
    time. Or perhaps a stylistic set.\r\n\r\nThe compositor can do some work by using
    different character styles. Any needed differences between the \"display\" & \"running
    text\" will likely be small, and the layout program's scaling for a few percentages
    points change is one way to go. It isn't ideal for several reasons -- the contrast
    of the characters will change a little (stem, fine lines), as will the weight
    generally if you use more than about 5 percent. Kerning will be maintained within
    the set of small caps the character style is applied to, but not with characters
    not included the character style, with punctuation being the most common problem.\r\n\r\nThen,
    I suppose if you're being really pure, except for the phonetics which have a Unicode
    index, you need them both mapped from capitals and mapped from lower case (c2sc
    and smcp). <cite>[Edit: FWIW,  I don't think this is worthwhile generally. In
    fact, with fonts where it's legal to modify them, I've been known to go in & take
    out the lower-case mapping. There is always some handwork in using text extracted
    from a pdf,  and 99.9 percent of the time, any odd full caps are going to occur
    where you expect them to.]</cite> \r\n\r\nJust some of the issues that can come
    up with small caps in the use of type. \r\n\r\nPersonally, I wouldn't bother to
    do all that in a font. Too much work for too little gain -- esp. since the designers
    who select what typeface will be used in a document will get bored with one font
    family fairly quickly, and move on."
  created: '2012-12-30 17:47:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Craig, a lot depends on how small caps are set in combo with U&lc.\r\n\r\nFor
    old-style types in which the small caps are \u201Cpetite\u201D, very close to
    x-height, it was customary to letter space them, they <em>are</em> capitals, after
    all. (They appeared a lot like old style figures\u2014which are tabular\u2014with
    a lot of inherent sidebearing space.) By the same token, small caps that are a
    lot larger than x-height may be set tight, like the lower case.\r\n\r\nCompare:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Micro_6551.png]\r\n\r\n1.
    Petite small caps, normal spacing\r\n2. Petite small caps, letter spaced\r\n3.
    Small caps, normal spacing\r\n\r\nIn the top face, which is something of an old
    style, setting #2 is preferable.\r\nIn the bottom face, a didone, #3 is preferable,
    because letterspacing doesn\u2019t suit this kind of didone (unless it is an all
    cap setting, with lots of spacing).\r\n\r\nAnd remember: <strong>Real typographers
    never set caps with small caps!</strong>"
  created: '2012-12-30 18:53:15'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "@ Nick\r\n\r\n<cite>And remember: <strong>Real typographers never set caps
    with small caps!</strong></cite>\r\n\r\nI agree, but am reluctant to anger all
    the practitioners of the legal profession. What if I'm falsely accused of a crime?\r\n\r\n(&BTW,
    I know some who'd argue that real typographers never use bold...)"
  created: '2012-12-30 19:10:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: LOL!
  created: '2012-12-30 19:33:06'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: How would you set an acronym at the beginning of a sentence (or are small-capped
    acronyms also something that real typographers don't do)?
  created: '2012-12-30 19:40:25'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Nick, why didn't you build more generous spacing into the petite caps in the
    oldstyle font?
  created: '2012-12-30 19:44:34'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>How would you set an acronym at the beginning of a sentence (or are
    small-capped acronyms also something that real typographers don't do)?</cite>\r\n\r\nDepends
    on what world you live in. In my world (books) anything the editor feels trumps
    whatever the designer or typesetter feels. And if the editor defers, both the
    book designer and compositor trump the type designer... Now, just who is the \"typographer\"
    in that long sequence?\r\n\r\nBut in general, I say if you use them, let the chips
    fall where they may. Anything else gets you into a terrible tangle. & I'd tend
    to say use them in text, but not in U&lc display, esp. if initial caps are used
    in the displayed material. "
  created: '2012-12-30 19:54:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>How would you set an acronym at the beginning of a sentence (or are small-capped
    acronyms also something that real typographers don't do)?</em>\r\n\r\nI forget.
    \r\nWith acronyms, a lot depends on the typeface and the genre of job it\u2019s
    being used in.\r\nOne also has to consider what the \uFB01gures are like.\r\n\r\n<em>Nick,
    why didn't you build more generous spacing into the petite caps in the oldstyle
    font?</em>\r\n\r\nIt makes sense to match the default look of small caps to that
    of All Caps (with \u201Ccpsp\u201D if it\u2019s in the font). \r\nThat way, it\u2019s
    a benchmark that typographers can relate to, adding tracking as necessary.\r\nFor
    instance, in a \u201Ctitle page\u201D usage mixing All Caps with All Small Caps,
    you want to have a consistent letterspacing when the typographer adds, say, 100
    units of tracking throughout.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-30 22:24:10'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "@Nick: You remember how I love Richler (especially the regular), right? :-)\r\nSo
    you\u2019re doing it on purpose! LOL"
  created: '2012-12-30 22:31:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: It will be published soon.
  created: '2012-12-30 22:34:49'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: That is very good! :-)
  created: '2012-12-31 12:53:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I had hoped to have it out by now, but after I decided to add Greek and Cyrillic,
    I added small caps for them, and then WGL4, and it\u2019s taking for ever to do
    the specimens. I did chicken out on Hebrew, though."
  created: '2012-12-31 18:53:02'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Golly, even Cyrillic?\r\nThanks for mentioning WGL4, Nick. Is there some
    specific reason to add it?\r\n\r\nI always loved the regular version, the italic
    is very good but more conventional."
  created: '2013-01-03 19:32:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "WGL4 is a recognized standard for Pan-European fonts, with Latin, Greek and
    Cyrillic.\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve never supported it in a typeface before, as I thought
    the pattern pieces were a waste of time, but WTF, they were easy to draw and they\u2019re
    the same for every font.\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-03 23:17:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The pattern pieces (line and box draw characters) were not intended to be
    included in all WGL4 fonts: they are only included in the spec for console fonts.
    This used to be clearer in early documentation of WGL4, which distinguished between
    the core set and the optional inclusions. Unfortunately, more recent documentation
    has omitted this distinction; I'm not sure why.\r\n\r\nThere really is no reason
    to include line and box draw characters in anything but a monospaced font, since
    they are entirely dependent on such spacing in order to work correctly. So, for
    example, of the ClearType fonts, which were based around the WGL4 set -- with
    some additions -- only Consolas supports these characters."
  created: '2013-01-04 00:44:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "But can I say my font is WGL4 compliant if it doesn\u2019t have the line
    and box characters?"
  created: '2013-01-04 01:57:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: It probably depends on to whom you are making the claim. Some years ago, at
    a Unicode conference, I was sitting next to Michel Suignard from Microsoft, who
    was primarily resposible for defining the WGL4 set, and I recall that he agreed
    with my interpretation of the then published spec that the line and box draw characters
    were optional, outside of the core set. But one possible reason for the removal
    of the core/optional distinction in the documentation might be that software developers
    want to be certain about what characters a font contains if it claims WGL4 support.
    An equivocal option would be to claim that a font provides 'WGL4 language set
    support'.
  created: '2013-01-04 04:19:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks, John.\r\n\r\nI suppose I could make an equivocal claim, but having
    drawn the line and box characters, I can put them in every \u201CPan-European\u201D
    font now, so I might as well.\r\nI think certain potential customers will be reassured
    to know that the full WGL4 character set is supported.\r\n\r\nThis reminds me
    of another thread ongoing at the moment, about parentheses not belonging to any
    particular typeface."
  created: '2013-01-04 05:51:13'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: Forgive my ignorance, but which is the use of those pattern pieces?
  created: '2013-01-04 19:07:51'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Box-drawing_character
  created: '2013-01-04 19:24:15'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: Thanks, sorry for the spamming. :-)
  created: '2013-01-04 22:01:55'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Strange that the combining diacritical marks are not a part of WGL4. Doesn't
    that put Microsoft & Unicode a bit at odds? My sense of consortium's preference
    is that characters with accents as precomposed glyphs are an unfortunate relic.\r\n\r\nWe
    get in a number of manuscripts these days where even simple ones like an a with
    an acute are typed as two characters, U+0061 followed by U+0301."
  created: '2013-01-04 22:09:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Strange that the combining diacritical marks are not a part of WGL4.
    Doesn't that put Microsoft & Unicode a bit at odds?</em>\r\n\r\nNo. WGL4 is a
    superset of 8-bit encodings for European languages using the Latin, Greek and
    Cyrillic scripts, plus a few additions. Since it deliberately only supports those
    languages that do not require combining marks, it omits them. It is also worth
    noting that WGL4 is pretty old now, and it's been almost a decade since it was
    defined as the procurement requirement for any work I've done for Microsoft. We
    extended even those ClearType fonts that are not Office core fonts to support
    Vietnamese and some symbol and extra numeric glyphs not in WGL4.\r\n\r\n<em>We
    get in a number of manuscripts these days where even simple ones like an a with
    an acute are typed as two characters, U+0061 followed by U+0301.</em>\r\n\r\nWhich
    Microsoft would automatically map to the precomposed character in the font cmap
    during display."
  created: '2013-01-05 00:25:34'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "I generally use the IBM extended <a href=\"http://www.borgendale.com/glyphs.htm\">Universal
    (or Unified) Glyph List</a> (which is undoubtedly descended from a common source
    as WGL4) as the basis of character support if I want to expand coverage outside
    Latin-1.  That's mostly because the first fonts I designed were targeted at OS/2
    users, of course.  Since then I've just kept the habit because I figure it's as
    good a system as any.\r\n\r\nI don't mean that I <em>support</em> the whole thing,
    just that I use it as a rough guideline for \"I should really plan to support
    these characters\" up to a certain cut-off (usually about the 383 mark, although
    I often include the 505-529 region as well).\r\n\r\nIt used to be divided into
    a few language-specific versions. TypeTool (and presumably FontLab) includes obsolete
    mapping tables for them; I created an updated one for the full UGL which I use."
  created: '2013-01-05 01:43:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>We extended even those ClearType fonts that are not Office core fonts
    to support Vietnamese and some symbol and extra numeric glyphs not in WGL4.</em>\r\n\r\nWGL5?\r\n\r\nSorry
    to belabor this, but it seems to me that the community bene\uFB01ts from having
    a specially named encoding for Pan-European coverage; it\u2019s a shorthand which
    lets users know that what they\u2019re getting will do the job, validated by Microsoft."
  created: '2013-01-05 06:41:38'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: John, is there such a thing as a current Microsoft standard? Perhaps as Nick
    suggests, a WGL5? Perhaps a type community generated standard would be more appropriate,
    if such a thing could ever be agreed upon...
  created: '2013-01-07 12:03:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "WGL4 stands as a pretty good basis for pan-European language support.\r\n\r\nMicrosoft's
    expanding procurement requirements reflect their own market priorities, which
    might not be everyone else's market priorities, especially not every font foundry's
    priorities. How many font makers are selling end user licenses in Vietnam or Kyrgyzstan?
    There are a few things that can be picked up from examining the Win7/8 release
    versions of e.g. Constantia. For example, if you are making Greek fonts -- even
    Monotonic ones -- you might want to consider including the numeric koppa character:
    apparently there was enough of a call for this (it is used as a symbol in legal
    documents) for Microsoft to add it to all their fonts with Greek support."
  created: '2013-01-07 18:09:53'
date: '2007-11-08 02:00:31'
node_type: forum
title: Caps to small caps

---
