---
author:
  name: Scott Murray
  picture: 112281
body: "Until relatively recently, type was an entirely analog medium.  First wood,
  then metal, then film.  And now, most type is digital.  What have we gained in this
  transition, and what have we lost?  What has changed as a result?\r\n\r\nI am researching
  this subject for a graduate project and have my own thoughts, but would be curious
  to hear from others first."
comments:
- author:
    name: Gary Long
    picture: 112662
  body: 'Lots of technical pros and cons of digital type versus non-digital forms,
    but I think the biggest ramification has been the ability now of anyone with a
    computer and some software, an investment of a only few thousand dollars, to design,
    produce, and market typefaces. This has resulted in a huge increase in the available
    typefaces. Probably more bad type than good, but still more good stuff than we
    would have had in the "old days". Type designers and foundries can take chances
    that they wouldn''t have when bringing commercial typefaces to market cost tens
    or hundreds of thousands of dollars. '
  created: '2007-11-09 21:54:40'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I feel like what really got lost, at least for a while, was personality.
    In he rush to get metal type to photo type, and again to churn out digital types,
    a lot of little things that were adorable or gorgeous in metal disappeared. Of
    course, now all of those goodies are coming back. \r\n\r\nDepending on one\u2019s
    feelings about digital perfection, we have either lost the random little bumps
    and misalignments, or gotten rid of them."
  created: '2007-11-09 22:10:50'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'My Advice:  Search typophile via google ( rather than by using the local
    search ) and see what you get. Just put in Metal Type, Photostype etc. There are
    a ton of threads here that address this question and in great detail.  Then you
    can come back & ask a less broad or generic question.'
  created: '2007-11-09 22:57:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">First wood, then metal, then film. \r\n\r\nHow about clay! why does clay
    get no respect?"
  created: '2007-11-10 03:10:45'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "<strong>Matthew Carter</strong>: If you cut punches in steel, there is a
    huge penalty for making a mistake...Nowdays it's the opposite \u2014 computers
    are so forgiving. If you make a mistake, you just hit 'undo'.\r\nI have to say,
    I couldn't be more glad to be working in today's technology \u2014 you can be
    more adventurous...as opposed to when I was cutting punches where you tended to
    be very much more conservative in design terms."
  created: '2007-11-10 03:33:25'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "In both pre-film and pre-digital periods likely it was more that experienced
    practitioners using traditional techniques lent to more appropriate typefaces
    for the printing technology of the times. More of a hand to hand thing I'd assume.\r\n\r\nWith
    the use of the camera, re: film, and now digital, and the printing technologies
    that were/are concurrent, all of these \"appropriate\" restrictions were by-passed.
    Less of a hand to hand thing. For better or worse, dependent upon your perspective
    on all of this I'd guess.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2007-11-10 04:15:59'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> How about clay! Why does clay get no respect?</cite>\r\n\r\nI respect
    you more & more."
  created: '2007-11-10 06:31:13'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>How about clay! why does clay get no respect?</em>\r\n\r\nRight on! Cuneiform
    rocks."
  created: '2007-11-10 15:45:25'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Right on! Cuneiform rocks.\r\n\r\nNot quite movabale type, but this was...
    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bi_Sheng"
  created: '2007-11-10 17:48:18'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Clay was quite a viable medium for the wax seals ( the design was reversed
    of course) in Roman Civ. Maybe other time periods too. There are some great glyph
    designs that come out of that I think.
  created: '2007-11-11 00:04:31'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Not quite movabale type, but this was...</em>\r\n\r\nThanks for that
    link, Si! And I thought that the earliest movable type was made with wooden blocks...
    Now I've learned something new.\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2007-11-11 03:45:07'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: ":\u2014)\r\n\r\nMovable type is not about the material, it's about the ability
    to adjust the letter in regard to the material.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2007-11-11 05:05:33'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Letterpress fonts had distinct incarnations of their own. Punchcutting was
    earlier handcut. Discussion later came about mechanical punchcutting. John Dreyfus
    wrote an interesting book on the subject. Also I could tell you many things about
    both but this audience, I fear, would fall asleep. \r\n\r\nFilm only offered \"scaled
    small caps\", as opposed to \"redrawn small caps\". Film fonts offered ligature,
    tied character and swash \"POVERTY\". And you guessed it, poverty sucks. \r\n\r\nDigitally
    speaking the first to reclaim those territories was Lanston under my direction.
    Followed by major digital foundries such as Adobe and English Monotype who called
    them expert fonts. I considered and treated all of our customers as experts, for
    the most part they were.\r\n\r\nI have worked extensively producing both hot metal
    type  and digital offerings. From that experience I can say nothing is more enjoyable
    that working with hot metal. Anyone who says otherwise is fooling themselves.
    Or not very good at it.\r\n\r\nThere are many things I can say about digital type.
    One is that the good thing about digital type is that anyone one can do it, the
    bad thing about digital type is that anyone can do it.\r\n\r\nNot too impressive.\r\n\r\nAlso
    the photo boys figured that they could overlap type. They did it because they
    could, not because it was a \u201Cgood thing to do\u201D. Those same kind of handlings
    creep into digital types. Stay away from rubber type.\r\n\r\nThe one feature of
    letterpress, never addressed by film, and ignored, not to mentioned not allowed
    to function in font formats is \"optical scaling\". This issue has been discussed
    over and over in this forum. I  have tried to talk Hrant into activily. I am not
    sure what he is doing. Maybe someone should ask him.\r\n\r\nGiampa\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2007-11-11 05:34:15'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Gerald, I am having a hard time following what you are talking about when
    you say  \u201Coptical scaling\u201D. Do you mean optically optimal shapes or
    just dumb ( as in unadjusted mechanical )  optical resizing? I assume it is the
    1st, but I am not really sure.. And what have you been trying to convince Hrant
    of - that he should be addressing that aspect of things in his designs?"
  created: '2007-11-11 09:45:58'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Eban,\r\n\r\nIncreasing x height for smaller sizes, bolder for small sizes
    etc. Caslon accomplished this naturally. Mechanical punchcutters redrew and re-adjusted
    their machines. For pantograph cut faces some required different drawings for
    each size, others drawing for two or three sizes depending on whether the face
    was text or not.\r\n\r\nI should point out that some \"hand cut faces\" were photo
    sized and only had one drawing for all sizes. These were recent developments.
    They sometimes used transfer types stuck on the end of a steel bar, and sometimes
    then etched to the surface giving a small relief of the image.\r\n\r\nOptical
    scaled hand cut punches used also only one drawing. The optical scaling was performed
    on the fly by a very skilled craftsman. This work was natural and usually superior
    to other methods.\r\n\r\nWe accomplished optical scaling with digital type when
    applications allowed type three fonts.\r\n\r\ngiampa"
  created: '2007-11-11 15:56:14'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "\"I should point out that some \u201Chand cut faces\u201D were photo sized
    and only had one drawing for all sizes. These were recent developments. They sometimes
    used transfer types stuck on the end of a steel bar, and sometimes then etched
    to the surface giving a small relief of the image.\"\r\n\r\nThese fonts were not
    optically scaled. They could be but not usually. I am not sure that was clear.\r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2007-11-11 16:01:27'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "You mentioned Hrant. Naturally his fonts should be optical scaled. All fonts
    should. We had discussed working on the program to do just that.\r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2007-11-11 16:10:59'
- author:
    name: Scott Murray
    picture: 112281
  body: "Great points and ideas, everyone.  Thanks for your feedback.\r\n\r\n<strong>Giampa</strong>,
    I appreciate your point about digital type's scalability as a further extension
    of what we first saw done with film (and the good and bad that come with that.
    \ Also, <strong>sii</strong>, thanks for bringing clay into the discussion.\r\n\r\nI
    wonder if anyone has experienced any <em>unexpected</em> positives or negatives
    of working with digital type?  In the \"Helvetica\" film, someone \u2014 was it
    Massimo Vignelli or Erik Spiekermann? \u2014 makes the point that all the computer
    can do is help you work faster, but not better.  The quality of the design is
    up to the designer, not the computer, the font file format, or the application.
    \ Certainly, every designer I know bemoans the abundance of low-quality work out
    there (it's never <em>ours</em>, right?), but at the same time, the desktop publishing/designing
    phenomenon has brought huge numbers of people into the field, increasing its visibility
    in popular culture in turn.\r\n\r\nI mean, there's an unexpected positive right
    there:  <em>Non-type designers know what fonts are.</em>  (This is a positive
    because explaining your job to a non-designers is easier than ever.)  Can you
    imagine anyone producing a film about a typeface 50 years ago?"
  created: '2007-11-12 21:15:03'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: Is this only about the medium, or about the field of typography in general.
    I think that typographic knowledge and practise was strong in the hot metal days,
    but waned considerably with the introduction of the phototype systems, and reached
    rock bottom a few years after the Mac became popular. It is probably stronger
    now, since such a large mass of people know a bit about type, a smaller number
    know a lot about it, and we probably have more expert typographers than we ever
    did in the past.
  created: '2007-11-12 21:20:42'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Most of the posts in this thread have dealt with the pros and cons for the
    type designer - but for the graphic designer, the pros far outweigh the cons -
    at least compared to film, which is where I stepped into the flow. \r\n\r\nWe
    used to spend hours doing a cast-off, then use an arcane formula to figure out
    how many characters per line we'd get in type, then spec the type. If you weren't
    experienced, you could really screw up and way over- or undershoot your mark.
    It was crazy expensive if you had to do it over. You then got galleys which you'd
    lay in and hope they fit. Then you had to do the whole thing over again with repro.
    Wax, thinner, T-squares, triangles, acetate, X-acto knives, etc etc. All those
    bloody tools.\r\n\r\nDigital type enables you to try out a bunch of different
    fonts in your design, print them out and compare, using actual copy.\r\n\r\nFurthermore,
    for anyone who remembers hand letterspacing display type, I don't think I need
    to say more. Not to mention having to cut the galleys apart line by line in order
    to wrap the type around a photo. Etc, etc, etc."
  created: '2007-11-12 22:02:43'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: The cons of course - anyone thinks they can be a graphic designer, and they
    also think they can set type. Type used to be set by professionals, and design
    left to the designers. There is an unbelievable amount of bad design and typesetting
    out there now.
  created: '2007-11-12 22:08:50'
- author:
    name: brianlawler
    picture: 111328
  body: "I've been at this for a long time, and I made fonts when they were photographic
    (I had a V-I-P and a P&M font camera). It was dreadful.\r\n\r\nWhat I think is
    so impressive about modern digital typography is:\r\n\r\na. sharpness. There has
    never been an era in typography where the type was so sharp. Anything optical,
    anything mechanical, was subject to softening factors... paper, ink, lenses, film,
    etc. Now it's razor-sharp all the time, and I appreciate that.\r\n\r\nb. accessibility.
    Though there is, as Patty points out above, a lot of really lousy design out there,
    there is more good design than ever before. The tools provide precision to those
    who know how to use it. I argue that there has never been a better tool for fine
    typography than Adobe Illustrator. I routinely work in Illustrator with my cursor
    key movement set to 0.0001 in. That, to me, is worth the price of several decades
    of training and practice in typography. I love to tweak things so they really
    fit.\r\n\r\nc. I also don't miss the X-Acto knives, the Rapidograph pens, nor
    the triangles (which were never square anyway).\r\n\r\nBrian\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-13 04:59:37'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Scott\r\n\r\nYeah, I can imagine a film about a typeface fifty years ago.
    There is a rather phenomenal short on Frederic Goudy producing a typeface from
    drawing to casting. From the silent film days and produced in the fashion of German
    Expressiomism. I don't have a current link to it but it is on the web somewhere.\r\n\r\nGerald\r\n\r\nThe
    Bieler Press\r\nhttp://BielerPress.blogspot.com"
  created: '2007-11-13 05:05:41'
- author:
    name: mosh
    picture: 109476
  body: I miss the way the pages in a metal-pressed book feel :( Most of the type
    nowadays looks very blurred if you inspect it closely.
  created: '2007-11-13 10:30:18'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>In the \u201CHelvetica\u201D film, someone \u2014 was it Massimo Vignelli
    or Erik Spiekermann? \u2014 makes the point that all the computer can do is help
    you work faster, but not better.</cite>\r\n\r\nIIRC, that was [[Wim Crouwel]]."
  created: '2007-11-13 12:00:05'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> All fonts should </cite> ( be optically scaled/optimized) \r\n\r\nYes,
    I agree completely."
  created: '2007-11-13 16:12:23'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Eben,\r\n\r\nSorry, I think I spelled your name wrong. I get very little
    time to read over my writings. Time is at a premium for me at this time.\r\n\r\nStill,
    that is no excuse, once again, sorry.\r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2007-11-13 17:15:03'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: No problem. Cheers!
  created: '2007-11-13 18:19:59'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "pattyfab: <cite>There is an unbelievable amount of bad design and typesetting
    out there now.</cite>\r\n\r\nI couldn't agree more. But I wonder if this is a
    function of \"anyone thinks they can be a graphic designer\" or the general lack
    of education and respect for all things culturally, artistically, and intellectually
    cool in the United States. I tend to think it's the latter. I think it's more
    unconscious than conscious. Therefore, I'll go on record as saying it's not the
    technology that's creating the bad design, it's our culture (or lack of it).\r\n\r\nAm
    I perceiving this correctly? Is there more bad design in the United States than
    in Europe or elsewhere around the world? Who's countryside has the ugliest billboards?
    That's probably material for another thread.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-13 21:56:48'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I think there is bad design everywhere. However, some cultures have a cult
    of good design to begin with so we see it less. Or perhaps we only see the good
    because that is all that is published far enough abroad for all of us to observe. '
  created: '2007-11-13 22:07:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>There is an unbelievable amount of bad design and typesetting out there
    now.</em>\r\n\r\nAs an absolute quantity, or a relative amount?\r\n\r\nWIth digitization,
    the number of \"graphic artists\" has increased hugely (25-fold, according to
    Pamela Pfiffner in her book on/for Adobe). And now consumers are setting type
    for garage-sale flyers and their blogs and Myspace page.\r\n\r\nHowever, I would
    say that in absolute terms, there is more \"good\" design and typesetting than
    before digitization, and type culture as a whole is better than when it was a
    closed shop. Sure, that situation maintained high professional standards, but
    at the expense of being turgid. Now things are wide-open -- surely the creativity
    of the hive-mind cannot be denied?!"
  created: '2007-11-13 22:13:35'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> but at the expense of being turgid </cite>\r\n\r\nWell put."
  created: '2007-11-13 23:52:37'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "brianlawler \r\n\r\n\"a. sharpness. There has never been an era in typography
    where the type was so sharp. Anything optical, anything mechanical, was subject
    to softening factors... paper, ink, lenses, film, etc. Now it\u2019s razor-sharp
    all the time, and I appreciate that.\"\r\n\r\nI am not sure about razor sharp,
    \"lots of low rez out there\". Also many early faces, by big foundries, compromised
    outlines to optimize low rez. That is certainly a minus.\r\n\r\nFilm had serious
    problems, if changes had to be made, and the job was high quality, the entire
    text would be run through again. Reason: the chemicals deteriorated. Reproducing
    a \"deterioration\" was not an option.\r\n\r\nAnother complaint about digital
    type is that they are not \"points and Picas\". Digital fonts are based on low
    rez screens.\r\n\r\nAlso digital type, at least as you all know it, is restricted
    in outline units, not to be confused with fit units. Ikarus was far superior.\r\n\r\nAnother
    thing to think about is that film fonts were more often than not digital. ITC,
    Letraset, Berthold made good use of digital font outlines produced on Ikarus software.\r\n\r\nSo
    it may not be so much the digital aspect, but more so the output device. Also
    what is so sharp about screen fonts?\r\n\r\nRather a newsprint letterpress proof.\r\n\r\nAnd
    last but not least I do not agree typography is better, or that there is more
    products that are better than the past. If you removed digital reproductions of
    hot metal faces you would be in a negative balance.\r\n\r\nPercentage wise, at
    least in America, it would be hard to beat hot metal in the twenties for both
    craftsmanship and design. And while there was less type to work with, they were
    at least worthy, for the most part, of looking at. Look at the ATF catalogue and
    tell me if you disagree. The typography was excellent. The type offering were
    inspirational.\r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2007-11-14 03:36:50'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I need to get a copy of an ATF catalogue. I do think that some of the work
    of the last 20 years is plenty worthy though. Don't you?
  created: '2007-11-14 08:27:57'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Eben,\r\n\r\n\"I do think that some of the work of the last 20 years is plenty
    worthy though. Don\u2019t you?\"\r\n\r\nSome great letterpress work.\r\n\r\nThis
    http://www.p22.com/Lanston/Giampa/ATF.html falls just a couple of years earlier
    than your cut off, but that was not my last work. I continued letterpress printing
    until 1994. http://www.p22.com/Lanston/Giampa/BuickIvy.html\r\n \r\nThere has
    been some excellent \"digital typography\" by \"letterpress typographers\", Bob
    Reid leaps to mind. Beyond that we stretch?\r\nhttp://www.robertreidprinting.ca/Bio.htm\r\n\r\nEben,
    can you point to any examples that support that there is a serious body of digital
    typographical excellence performed by persons outside the letterpress experience?
    \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2007-11-14 15:38:17'
- author:
    name: Scott Murray
    picture: 112281
  body: '<strong>bieler</strong>, thanks for mentioning that silent film about Goudy.  I
    found it here: [[http://www.typeculture.com/academic_resource/movies/]]'
  created: '2007-11-14 17:33:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Gerald, never mind printing, why aren't you bemoaning the demise of the scriptorium?
    :-)
  created: '2007-11-14 20:38:00'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I will see what strikes me as worthy over the next week. When I wrote that
    I think I was thinking about the fonts themselves rather than the design & the
    printing. Before I really think about this I would like to be clear about what
    I am thinking about. You mean all together correct? If so that will present some
    problems because I don't think the best printing is done by type designers or
    the the best type design done by printers. It's a sort of apples & oranges thing.
    \r\n\r\n<cite>scriptorium</cite>\r\n\r\nI am - in a very limited and specific
    way..."
  created: '2007-11-14 22:57:08'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Eben,\r\n\r\n\"If so that will present some problems because I don\u2019t
    think the best printing is done by type designers or the the best type design
    done by printers.\"\r\n\r\nI am not so sure, I rather like Metropolitan, or otherwise
    know as Centaur. Also the companion italic by Frederick Warde. http://www.p22.com/lanston/Giampa/Metropolitan.html\r\nBoth
    were printers.\r\n\r\nHopefully this extension of parameters will make your search
    easier. Good luck. I would like to have reason to believe that the evolution of
    typography is not \"stuck\". Evolution of mankind has become stuck. Natural selection
    has become greatly diminished by modern medicine.\r\n\r\nThe third world is our
    only hope.\r\n\r\nAre you a creationist, I hope not, I am treading on thin ice.
    Actually I am leading up to Nick Schinn.\r\n\r\n\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\r\n\r\nNick:
    \"Gerald, never mind printing, why aren\u2019t you bemoaning the demise of the
    scriptorium? :-)\"\r\n\r\nI don't know for sure, some of it interests me but I
    go into a panic attack when I get close to it. The religeous connection is offputting
    for me. Also the people who gravitate towards scriptorium are alarmingly weird,
    maybe you have to eat magic mushrooms to like it. I heard you quit? Good!\r\n\r\nSome
    people don't like Rhetulus Sp. and the Chroysochra Rajah, I love them. But wierdos,
    I give them wide berth. Call me crazy, no mushrooms for this chap. We should meet
    some day, I would be happy to show you my bug collection. :-) You heard our good
    friend Jack died, he enjoyed bugs too. http://www.p22.com/lanston/Giampa/BarkerLetterThree.html\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGiampa\r\nP.S.
    By the way, I have noticed your work has greatly improved since I elucidated on
    William Morris. I am glad to see you have embodied the Arts & Crafts movement.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-15 19:13:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...I elucidated on William Morris</em>\r\n\r\nRight. Who needs shrooms
    when you can get off on Old Bill!?"
  created: '2007-11-15 19:25:17'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Nick: \"Right. Who needs shrooms when you can get off on Old Bill!?\"\r\n\r\nCanadians
    are brilliant.\r\n\r\nGiampa\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-15 23:16:16'
date: '2007-11-09 21:26:46'
title: 'Digital Type: Pros and Cons?'

---
