---
author:
  name: patricking
  picture: 111718
body: "hi folks. this is a request for informal thoughts on a collection i released
  about 3 or 4 years ago.\r\n\r\ni really like the collection myself, and can use
  it in a pile of different scenarios, but nobody has ever bought the thing. what
  do folks here think of it?\r\n\r\nthe basic notion of the collection is minimalist,
  constructed shapes in the roman, and more of the same for an italic&mdash;but using
  forms from handwritten & calligraphic italics. Nobody and i mean NOBODY has ever
  bought a single weight. am i completely off my game here or something?\r\n\r\nnot
  really looking for tactical tips, such as \"i would do this,\" just wondring what
  folks' general feeling might be.\r\n\r\nthanks!\r\n\r\n[[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/pretty/commodity/]]\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "Dear Patric, I hope I'm not too harsh on you here, but to be honest I can
    understand why it hasn't been a great commercial success. I'm afraid it reminds
    me of the many free fonts available on those 'free fonts' sites. Aesthetically
    I don't think that it's sophisticated enough to warrant a price tag. Perhaps you
    should just give it away?\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-10 02:51:43'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Hi, Patric. First off, I should state that I like your typefaces. My own
    early attempts at drawing typefaces have been mostly in the modular/geometric
    mode. At least you finished and released yours!\r\n\r\nThat said, one thing about
    minimalist, geometric faces is that there are many, many variations out there
    at this point... Saturation might be one reason no one has purchased a copy so
    far... Or maybe this collection is not different enough, to the untrained eye,
    from other, similar faces, such as (to give but one example) Die Typonauten's
    <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/typonauten/nautilo-font-system/\">Nautilo
    Font System</a>."
  created: '2007-11-10 03:17:46'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Perhaps you should just give it away?</em>\r\n\r\nOr give away a weight
    or two, <em>a la</em> FontShop... Mark Simonson had a couple of fonts that he
    gave away on his site, a few years ago."
  created: '2007-11-10 03:20:16'
- author:
    name: patricking
    picture: 111718
  body: clauses, this is critique, not eviscerate from behind a keyboard. i could
    just as easily say that your humanist sans are worthless because they look like
    a million other faces out there in the same genre. but if i did so, be just as
    unthinking in saying it as you are.
  created: '2007-11-10 06:21:56'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Actually... giving one weight away might be clever. \r\n\r\nYou know 3 or
    4 years ago was the high point for the turgid love of Dutch style text faces.
    So the release timing wasn't ideal in that sense. Did you promote it? Also, what
    has been said about it being a crowded market for this kind of thing is true.
    Nautilo Font System is a solid example. I like yours a bit better but the point
    is valid all the same. Ricardo, Nice one.\r\n\r\nAt the risk of being insensitive
    myself - in some ways though - either it sells or not. You can work on it some
    more I suppose, or make the next font. Surely making the next one is sweeter.
    No?\r\n\r\nMy 1st reaction is some of it is tastier than other bits - that is
    to say it isn't equally good all the way through I think.  Similarly I think the
    italic is more neat-o than the roman. But, do you just want a general reaction
    sort of thing or...? I have to admit I am not sure what you want to get out of
    this.\r\n\r\nBut maybe I am missing the point.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-10 09:18:57'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Time out. Patrick are you serious? \r\nYou asked for an opinion, Clauses
    gave you an honest one- a well thought out opinion free of sarcasm.\r\n\r\nMy
    opinion is just as well thought out, but much more to the point:\r\nThe fonts
    you've designed are ugly and expensive for what they are. Tho, the metrics look
    far better than a 'free font'.\r\n\r\nI find it telling that even less successful
    or novice designers come to typophile asking \"give me your toughest\" or \"let
    me have it\" whereas polite but direct criticism sets you off. Your being so quick
    to be offended is counterproductive to your growth as a type designer. I think
    you know what good design is. The Pentagram website is certainly very good. I
    also had a gander at the PDF of the House of Pretty portfolio- very well done.
    Interestingly, I did not see any of your fonts in use there. And why is that Patrick?...
    \r\n\r\nI know you are not asking for a specific course of action but I'm gonna
    give it to you anyway:\r\n\r\n-drop the price of all your fonts to 9.99 or less\r\n\r\n-make
    a pdf showing the repertoire and usage examples (like house industries does with
    their fonts in their print catalogs). Use colorful and playful graphics so we
    can see the potential.\r\n\r\n- change the icon/preview on myfonts site to reflect
    that- it will spark more interest\r\n\r\n- put the fonts on sale too and you <em>will</em>
    get customers fast\r\n\r\nBefore you let <em>me</em> have it,  I understand your
    work is personal to you and should be but, use our honesty to your advantage.
    Sour grapes is not you.\r\n\r\nI really do wish you the best. :-)\r\n\r\nMike
    Diaz\r\n\r\nPS... Emphasize Gia and Fast Girls as these are your most attractive
    designs.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-10 09:49:08'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "I wont go in to design details, but:\r\n\r\nIf you did all the accented characters
    that are needed in a standard font, perhaps someone would buy it? There are a
    lot of missing characters in your fonts. For instance, no one in Sweden could
    use it as it dont contain \xE5 \xE4 \xF6 \u2013 which is part of the standard
    Mac OS Roman encoding."
  created: '2007-11-10 10:11:19'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: It could also be some encoding error on the fonts, since a lot of letters
    doesnt show up either on the typetester on Myfonts, or in the character set list,
    if you in fact have designed a full set of glyphs.
  created: '2007-11-10 11:29:24'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Patric, please take my comments in good humour. I'm in a good mood, but I'm
    of British descent and the traditonal penchant for satire and sarcasm is in my
    blood. Don't take it personally.\r\n\r\n* For the extent of design and degree
    of visual stimulation on offer, the typeface design itself is not good value for
    money at $35.00 per weight.\r\nAlso try: funding an elephant with a serious cocaine
    habit.\r\n\r\n* The market for this type of thing is small and its potential range
    of uses limited. To get sales it desperately needs to be much better value for
    money.\r\n\r\n* $15 per weight, with matching italic in each package, would be
    a \"good\" price to sell it at and an appealing way to market it. Compare with
    my <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/sentinel/primex/\">Primex face</a>---at
    $15 for the regular plus oblique Primex is a tepid albeit steady seller. Much
    simpler in design than Commodity, Primex has an effective marketing concept behind
    it, complete with persuasive font flag and shafty blurb. Also try: luring vigins
    into an enourmous wicker basket and torching it.\r\n\r\n* Incomplete Western 1252
    character sets send buyer interest straight off a vertical cliff face.\r\n\r\n*
    Family lacks a regular weight, jumping from light to medium.\r\n\r\n* Interpolation
    of the bold and extra-bold weights, featuring some letters with clogged counters,
    is the kind of product the roach-baited font-buying public avoids. Not worthy
    of pretend consideration. The moment they see it Myfonts customers will quickly
    move on to discounted real fonts.\r\n\r\n* The font flag doesn't help. \r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-11-10 16:02:20'
- author:
    name: patricking
    picture: 111718
  body: "okay. first off, i owe clauses an apology. \"Aesthetically I don\u2019t think
    that it\u2019s sophisticated enough to warrant a price tag\" is a <em>really</em>
    hard thing to see as the first comment on a design that i know is sound. it offended
    me because i wouldn't have said something like that to anyone unless i <em>really</em>
    disliked them.\r\n\r\nthe face is actually using the forms common to freeware
    releases and combining those with handwritten italic forms <em>on purpose.</em>
    the face was designed in 2001-2002, when geometric forms weren't as out of fashion
    as they are now, and i'm aware that the visual vocabulary is straight out of trash
    typography. during that period i used forms from youth culture vernaculars because
    i liked giving them a full range of expression through a full character set.\r\n\r\nthat
    said, the character map <em>is</em> actually complete. myfonts support told me
    their OTF rasterizer sometimes didn't work, but i should probably regenerate the
    files myself. these were generated at thirstype for the initial release. the person
    who made the files was having trouble with them at the time.\r\n\r\nthis was designed
    as an overhaul to <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/pretty/revenant/\">revenant,</a>
    which still sells like hotcakes almost twelve years after its release, and which
    i can't stand. it was designed in 24 hours and looks it, yet sells like <em>crazy.</em>
    i thought commodity would be a great answer to it since it expands a great deal
    on the vocabulary and makes it more usable&mdash;but nyet. that's why i'm confused
    about its lack of sales. it seems like it would, since it expands upon the forms
    so much."
  created: '2007-11-10 17:30:43'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Revenant has a stronger flavor - a clearer purpose to my eye than commodity
    does. Commodity may be existing in between sweet spots of utility. The one being
    Display & the other text.
  created: '2007-11-10 18:53:18'
- author:
    name: patricking
    picture: 111718
  body: that makes sense, considering this particular face was the last display face
    i designed. at that point i was beginning to lose my taste for display entirely,
    so it does follow that's neither here nor there.
  created: '2007-11-10 21:56:07'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: "ismyfonthotornot.com\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-11 04:07:03'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "Patric: Whether you agree with what's been posted or not, you are receiving
    some extremely valuable feedback here.\r\n\r\nI can't really say I find Commodity
    appealing, but then again I don't find any fonts in this classification/genre
    appealing so I do not count. I can see how those who appreciate this kind of type
    would find it attractive so I don't believe you created the e-coli of the typography
    world. However, after reading your posts carefully I was able to pick up on a
    few things which I'll run past you now and let you determine what they are worth.
    And these things have nothing to do with the actual font itself.\r\n\r\n1.) Stripped
    to its core, selling is all about convincing. However, the bottom line is I'd
    neither seen nor even heard of \"Commodity\" until now. That said, I really couldn't
    be convinced to buy it then now could I? It's your job to both alert me of the
    font's existence AND convince me to buy it somehow. (By 'me' I mean ordinary people
    in general). I'd previously heard of \"House of Pretty,\" a name I actually like
    very much. It's just not a name I've heard on a routine basis, if more than once
    or twice in my life. PROMOTE!\r\n\r\n2.) All of your flags on myfonts.com are
    left-hook red (view: http://www.myfonts.com/foundry/pretty/). Not only is red
    a color you want to avoid when attempting to win people over, in one's initial,
    1.3-second glance it makes all your fonts look exactly the same. Which then means
    a person's immediate (and perhaps subconscious) impression is you lack a capacity
    or desire to be flexible. So not only has red turned \"me\" off, you better hope
    I liked something about whatever font I did look at first because I'm almost immediately
    going to assign my initial impression to the remaining four I did not peruse.
    Sadly, that also goes for if I didn't like the first one I saw. In this case,
    three of the five require more than just a casual glance to realize they're not
    identical. Obviously this is not the be-all and end-all of your stated problem,
    but I can't imagine it being an advantage.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, if you mix
    up the view of the flags a bit, use some blues and transparencies and treat it
    as though you are using your font to promote something other than your font, you
    will win more of those critical initial moments of impression than you'll lose.
    And I thought Mike Diaz's suggestions, specifically his second one, were outstanding.\r\n\r\n3.)
    What struck me most in your posts was something with which I also have extreme
    difficulty; that being, just because you \"love\" your font doesn't mean everyone
    will, or should. To me it sounds as though you designed at least this font - if
    not more - solely for what YOU find appealing. When it comes to living life, it's
    the only way to go. Making money, on the other hand, is quite different.\r\n\r\nIs
    this approach a crime? Of course not. However, when you unload on someone providing
    an honest opinion on  your work, your interest in pleasing yourself rather than
    making money resounds like a cannon. Design of all kinds, regardless of the arena,
    is a see-saw struggle between remaining 100 percent true to your own appreciations
    and principles and receiving a consistent stream of financial reward.\r\n\r\nWhile
    I admire and appreciate self-confidence and self-assurance, I find self-awareness
    to be a far more valuable trait. \r\n\r\nFor whatever this was worth ..."
  created: '2007-11-12 05:47:34'
- author:
    name: patricking
    picture: 111718
  body: "<em>Patric: Whether you agree with what\u2019s been posted or not, you are
    receiving some extremely valuable feedback here.</em>\r\n\r\ni've actually only
    disagreed with one thing said. but the rest has been interesting.\r\n\r\n<em>However,
    the bottom line is I\u2019d neither seen nor even heard of \u201CCommodity\u201D
    until now.</em>\r\n\r\nprobably for a couple of good reasons. i don't think my
    former foundry promoted it much, if at all. and i've only just rereleased a few
    months ago.\r\n\r\n<em> Not only is red a color you want to avoid when attempting
    to win people over</em>\r\n\r\n(..?)\r\n\r\n<em>and treat it as though you are
    using your font to promote something other than your font, you will win more of
    those critical initial moments of impression than you\u2019ll lose. And I thought
    Mike Diaz\u2019s suggestions, specifically his second one, were outstanding.</em>\r\n\r\ni
    was sort of thinking the same.\r\n\r\n<em>that being, just because you \u201Clove\u201D
    your font doesn\u2019t mean everyone will, or should.</em>\r\n\r\nyou're reading
    a lot into my intentions, and overthinking it. i didn't say that i expect everyone
    to like it. just <em>someone.</em>\r\n\r\nthat it's sitting there unused seems
    really weird in the light of some of the other work on that page. even mettle,
    astoundingly,  sells every once in a while. (again, i'm going to reiterate that
    all of this work is strictly back-catalog stuff&mdash;the reason nothing new is
    up is that i've been working on getting all the old work available.)\r\n\r\ni
    have to say, more than anything i think it's probably a lack of any idea of how
    to use the thing (see: diaz' suggestion about PDFs, yours about font flags)  combined
    with what looks like an incomplete character map."
  created: '2007-11-12 08:19:43'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "I think this is where some of the other posts come in; you mentioned you
    didn't expect \"everyone to like it. just someone.\"\r\n\r\nI feel certain more
    than a few someones have liked and even wanted your typeface . . . just not for
    $35, unfortunately. I have zero guess of the ACTUAL reason this font has yet to
    be purchased; in fact no one ever will know for certain. However, there seem to
    be all kinds of little things you could do to improve the chances of it being
    sold at this price, and in this same version.\r\n\r\nFor example, I mentioned
    those blinding red flags displaying your fonts on the myfonts.com site, which
    you used for Commodity as well.\r\n\r\nI must say I have looked far and wide and
    still have not encountered a single rule or law preventing you from taking a digital
    camera out to the more trendy, populated spots where you live and taking a picture
    of the biggest billboard you can find. After which you could - via Photoshop -
    erase the entire contents of the billboard and come up with your own fictional
    company . . . which just so happens to use your typeface as the center of its
    image. Once finished you then could size, display and/or distribute the finished
    product in the manner you find most appropriate or effective.\r\n\r\nWhile such
    a thing probably wouldn't be striking being displayed in the size of a myfonts.com
    flag, I think you  get the idea I'm trying to get across here. Perhaps you could
    use an especially striking store window, or whatever . . . anything that would
    not cross infringement lines. For that matter you could find an empty billboard
    or window of a failed business somewhere and use those. \r\n\r\nObviously this
    would require some functional knowledge of Photoshop or other similar program,
    but not an obscene amount. What I think this does is places your typeface in a
    more recognizable, impressive light because, for all intents and purposes, \"Commodity\"
    - to many people - actually would be a typeface businesses use on billboards,
    etc. . . .  which to them automatically makes it great. There are tons of people
    out there who don't buy things because they don't trust their own assessment abilities
    or even their own taste; confirmation for them could come easy just by seeing
    someone really important likes your font too.\r\n\r\nThe truth is there aren't
    an overflow of people who would go check out whether or not your pseudo-business
    existed, especially if it's a billboard in Europe or the front of some insanely
    expensive technology store, etc. And even if someone did cry foul, you simply
    explain that you display these images to give potential clients the best view
    possible of how your typeface would look in situations that client may one day
    face. I just don't believe it would be fair to consider such a tactic unethical
    under any circumstances barring any potential copyright violations; it's actually
    done all the time with proposals for corporate stationery and so forth . . . you'd
    just be doing it in a little different way.\r\n\r\nBesides, it wouldn't surprise
    me in the least to learn that some of the industry's larger and more ff-famous
    vendors are similarly creative in various ways. But this is just one of countless
    little tweaks that you could consider not just for this font, but anything really.
    I know at least in my case, had your font been presented in a way similar to that
    described above, my initial interest in it would have been much greater."
  created: '2007-11-12 09:29:23'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>There are tons of people out there who don\u2019t buy things because
    they don\u2019t trust their own assessment abilities or even their own taste;
    confirmation for them could come easy just by seeing someone really important
    likes your font too. [...] I just don\u2019t believe it would be fair to consider
    such a tactic unethical under any circumstances</em>\r\n\r\nIt's a lie. Under
    most circumstances, it's considered unethical to lie.\r\n\r\n<em>Besides, it wouldn\u2019t
    surprise me in the least to learn that some of the industry\u2019s larger and
    more <strong>ff-famous</strong> vendors are similarly creative in various ways</em>\r\n\r\nAh.
    You have an agenda. \r\n\r\nEven if this were true, just because other people
    do questionable things doesn't make it okay for the rest of us to do them."
  created: '2007-11-12 11:06:59'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Commodity may be existing in between sweet spots of utility. The one being
    Display & the other text.\"\r\nReally? Commodity may also be existing between
    spots of utility and not. The regular has collection points in the intersections
    until it becomes \"too black for counters\". The italic cannot be used with the
    regular because it's too bold. There are several illegible characters. There is
    a l.c. width issue as weight increases that make the lowercase wider and darker
    than the caps. The spacing is just wrong. The text description of the face is
    deconstructive to a buyers trust, e.g. it is not \"purely geometric\", and there
    is no visible relationship between the face and most anything your average Joe
    would think of as \"handwritten\". If I were trying to sell this face I would
    make these and other changes and do so with a clarity of purpose and the joyful
    knowledge (since it has not sold), that I'm not going to be upsetting anyone.
    \r\n\r\nI hope Commodity Take Two, or Commodity Mark II or Commodity Priceless
    happens, because nothing of this scope should be abandoned. I'm sorry if this
    is tactical tips, \"what I would do...\" but I'm not much good to you otherwise.
    \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-12 12:39:50'
- author:
    name: patricking
    picture: 111718
  body: "<em>Ah. You have an agenda.</em>\r\n\r\nmeh. everyone has an agenda. but
    i do think this idea sounds shady unless it's used to fuel a larger message with
    a greater truth behind it (and therefore makes it obvious that the scene was staged).
    thanks for it, though.\r\n\r\nto be honest, my question mark was to ask exactly
    where it's proven that red is a wrong color to use to attract someone. that's
    a weird thing to say."
  created: '2007-11-12 12:40:55'
- author:
    name: patricking
    picture: 111718
  body: "<em>Commodity may also be existing between spots of utility and not. The
    regular has collection points in the intersections until it becomes \u201Ctoo
    black for counters\u201D. The italic cannot be used with the regular because it\u2019s
    too bold. There are several illegible characters. There is a l.c. width issue
    as weight increases that make the lowercase wider and darker than the caps. The
    spacing is just wrong. The text description of the face is deconstructive to a
    buyers trust, e.g. it is not \u201Cpurely geometric\u201D, and there is no visible
    relationship between the face and most anything your average Joe would think of
    as \u201Chandwritten\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nand that would be my ass splattered all
    over the floor. so maybe this is an idea i should just take off the market for
    now."
  created: '2007-11-12 13:03:46'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...and that would be my ass splattered all over the floor.\"\r\n\r\nI don't
    mean to be disrespectful, but if I didn't know the difference between face and
    ass, I'd be in big trouble by now. This face is not a bad idea and it is nowhere
    near as hopeless as some of the faces hanging on to my computer for dear life.
    \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-11-12 14:40:13'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>and that would be my ass splattered all over the floor. so maybe this
    is an idea i should just take off the market for now.</cite>\r\n\r\nDave is right,
    this face is not hopeless. Just because it doesn\u2019t sell is no reason to yank
    it entirely. Try dropping the price so that at least you\u2019re competing with
    other designs of the style; if nothing else you could sell the fonts for $10 and
    the family at a steep discount and it might be a nice option for students who
    want to explore Dutch geometric type designs. Even that would be better than just
    burying it.\r\n\r\nAlso, you mentioned that you can think of plenty of uses, so
    why not put together some nice specimens, make a PDF, and give it a web site?
    Put it into a catalog of your work to hand out at conventions. Maybe you should
    go back and tweak the design first, but I don\u2019t really think that you need
    to give up."
  created: '2007-11-12 15:10:39'
- author:
    name: patricking
    picture: 111718
  body: "<em>This face is not a bad idea and it is nowhere near as hopeless as some
    of the faces hanging on to my computer for dear life.</em>\r\n\r\nthanks, i appreciate
    that. but i also need to be realistic: the family is transitional between the
    super-geometric silliness i made a decade ago and the more refined grotesques
    i've grown into since around 2000 (and none of which are out to market yet).\r\n\r\ni
    think a lot of what you said is worth considering. but i also think that if there's
    a decision to be made between re-tailoring the face or moving on to something
    more current, i should either:\r\n\r\n1) fix the encoding issues, address usage
    and pricing and leave it (at least for now) so i can get some newer work out,
    or\r\n2) simply keep it as a personal collection. i think i'm okay with either
    solution.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-12 15:11:45'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "By the way, I actually don't think the typeface is that bad, either. As previously
    stated, I am not a fan of this category of typeface, but yours certainly has some
    appealing and unique characteristics. Although the lower-case \"g\" to me reminds
    me of the symbol for masculinity. I think. Is the cross under a circle representative
    of male or female? I always thought the circle with the arrow represented female
    but I wouldn't bet on it.\r\n\r\nOne of the great things about typography also
    is perhaps the very best thing about newspaper design: if you have a bad night,
    you almost always get another chance tomorrow. This is your typeface and you can
    make whatever improvements you want for the rest of your life. Maybe setting it
    aside for a few months and working on that Christmas script right now would be
    beneficial. It certainly seems scripts and similar handwriting/paint brush fonts
    right now are pretty strong sellers."
  created: '2007-11-12 18:23:58'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "Ricardo Cordoba wrote: \"It\u2019s a lie. Under most circumstances, it\u2019s
    considered unethical to lie.\"\r\n\r\nThere is absolutely nothing untrue about
    such a thing; it isn't like you're saying you HAVE done the typography for the
    law firm \"Dewey, Cheatham and Howe,\" or even that it exists. All you'd be doing
    is giving potential clients and buyers a view of how their particular project
    might look on a billboard, in a brochure, whatever. Anything a potential client
    or buyer might assume on his or her own is his or her own problem. And like I
    said, if one were to inquire about something, what you've created solely was to
    provide visual possibilities. There's simply no need to say all of your visual
    samples are of fictional businesses or places unless someone asks. In the meantime,
    those who only need that extra little push into buying something and don't care
    about anything but how the typeface will work for them have in whatever strange
    way had their tastes confirmed. Again, this is speaking in nothing but general
    terms.\r\n\r\nAs for having an agenda . . . do I really? Wow, I better get started
    on that agenda right away. Now if you could only tell me what that agenda is (since
    you seem to know), I'll certainly give it my very best effort.\r\n\r\nPatric earlier
    asked about the color red. In most design settings, the color red is a dominant,
    aggressive color and usually only works well when you use is to magnify the color
    itself and not anything it might be enhancing, be it words or anything else for
    that matter. In fact, when I first looked at your groups of flags on myfonts.com,
    I didn't even see the fonts for what they were, I just saw a boatload of red ...
    the color itself had consumed my initial attention and made the fonts secondary.
    Red - especially such a vibrant shade of it - is a dangerous color for design.\r\n\r\nAnd
    in human terms, colors like blue, grey, and even most greens, when worn or used
    in homes, etc., are considered far more friendly and inviting than is red. Rarely
    will you ever see anyone employing lots of dominant reds on much of anything because
    almost immediately just the sight of it will take away much wanted attention from
    everything around it - whether it be clothes on your body or curtains in your
    home. This all goes back to what reactive human eye interprets first and how much
    attention the mind gives it. It's pretty much a universal mantra ... you know,
    kind of like \"painting the town red.\" You never hear of anyone painting the
    town blue or some dark eggshell tone."
  created: '2007-11-12 18:29:17'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "And just for the sake of my \"agenda,\" has anyone ever heard of the brand
    name \"Claudianni,\" which appears to have offices in New York, London, Boston,
    and Chicago?\r\n\r\nTake a look below.\r\n\r\nI've certainly never heard of it,
    nor have Yahoo or Google. It certainly seems Claudianni has chosen to use a certain
    typeface for its promo material though, doesn't it? I'd love to seem some of this
    company's literature, that's for sure.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nubia_6328.jpg]"
  created: '2007-11-12 18:38:01'
- author:
    name: patricking
    picture: 111718
  body: i still think that needs a disclaimer or tagline of some sort to indicate
    that it's not real. either that or the brand needs to be really off the hook.
    otherwise it simply looks like trying to pull something on the audience.
  created: '2007-11-12 19:05:12'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Now if you could only tell me what that agenda is...</em>\r\n\r\nI thought
    I made that clear by quoting the part where you said, <em>\"Besides, it wouldn\u2019t
    surprise me in the least to learn that some of the industry\u2019s larger and
    more <strong>ff-famous</strong> vendors are similarly creative in various ways\"</em>
    [bold highlighting is mine], right before my comment about an agenda.\r\n\r\nI
    supposed that saying \"ff-famous\" rather than \"famous\" meant that you were
    not-so-subtly referring to (or taking a stab at) FontShop, since their own fonts'
    names are usually preceded by an FF... Or did I read too much into it? Was it
    just a stutter?  ;-D"
  created: '2007-11-12 19:19:30'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "I certainly agree ... to a point. This photo was taken from the fontfont.com
    website, promoting one of its typefaces. View here: http://www.fontshop.com/features/fontmag/003/003_ff/\r\n\r\nGiven
    this is a visual industry, any potential client should be provided a wide variety
    of visions depicting how attractive a typeface can be should they be considering
    this kind of advertising/promotion. It kind of traces back to the old chicken
    and egg debate, really. \r\n\r\nIn order for a potential client to know what kind
    of image would be projected of their business by using your typeface (generally
    speaking, not necessarily Commodity), presenting images such as the one above
    is the most effective way of doing so. Otherwise you're talking about a lot of
    people spending lots of money to use a typeface without having any idea of what
    it might look like on a billboard. Well, if I've never had one of my typefaces
    on a billboard, that client almost would be forced to rely on God's good humor
    because he or she certainly wouldn't have had any form of visual representation
    on which to rely . . . other than some spec sheets perhaps. And if they make specific
    inquiries about the billboard itself, then by all means a designer could and likely
    must explain it was just a visual example of the font's possibilities.\r\n\r\nKeep
    in mind this is merely one of literally thousands of promotional techniques, and
    isn't something a designer should rely on exclusively - or even very often. I
    was just providing an example of various angles and approaches you could take
    to framing and presenting your work a bit differently.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-12 19:26:54'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "Mr. Cordoba:\r\n\r\nThough I've tried, I can't figure out how a subtle hint
    in writing makes the leap into being an \"agenda.\" I suppose if I did have an
    \"agenda\" in writing \"ff-famous,\" it would have been to suggest without actually
    suggesting, so to speak, that FontFont may employ this kind of display strategy.
    While perhaps not being the most forthcoming thing on Earth, I certainly didn't
    feel like some sort of devious schemer when I wrote it.\r\n\r\nBeyond dropping
    a not-so-subtle hint, I cannot think of a single other thing you could believe
    I was trying to accomplish. Seriously, if I really was attempting to be cryptic
    in an effective way, it would have been a lousy attempt because you seemed to
    pick up on it right away. If I ever do have some sort of \"agenda,\" I assure
    you I would never make it quite so easy to detect, much less even suspect. I'm
    starting to wonder if I need to take myself behind the woodshed and give myself
    a whippin' or something."
  created: '2007-11-12 19:39:08'
- author:
    name: "Kellie Str\xF8m"
    picture: 111448
  body: "Curioustype,\r\n\r\nthe circle with arrow is the symbol for Mars and masculinity
    - I believe it represents the war god's shield and spear. The circle and cross
    is Venus, femininity. <A HREF=\"http://solarsystem.nasa.gov/multimedia/display.cfm?IM_ID=167\">More
    here</A> on NASA's site."
  created: '2007-11-13 02:07:48'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: Thank you Kellie for the information, which made me remember the little trick
    I used to use to remember which was which - a trick I obviously forgot in my earlier
    post.
  created: '2007-11-13 02:24:05'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "Patric, I like this face. I'd never seen it before. I can even see uses for
    it. \r\nI'll keep it in mind. \r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2007-11-13 02:40:57'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: 'Some of the characters are too experimental for me, a, g, etc. It seems overpriced.
    I love geometric typefaces, but the forms here have been reduced to such basic
    shapes that it starts to take on an abstract quality, not a bad thing, but limits
    its possible applications. '
  created: '2007-11-13 19:19:42'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: Holy heck! $250? I hope that the fonts are shipped on a 500GB hard drive for
    that!
  created: '2007-11-13 19:43:50'
- author:
    name: liquisoft
    picture: 111679
  body: "Nobody will buy it unless they know about it. Do what you have to do to get
    your font recognized, and people will purchase it. I would also suggest dropping
    the price down to $15, or so, considering it's a display face more than a legit
    typeface. Display faces are less useful than typefaces intended for legibility
    in blocks of copy.\r\n\r\n+\r\nRyan Ford"
  created: '2007-11-13 20:06:31'
- author:
    name: patricking
    picture: 111718
  body: "<em>The italic is actually an oblique</em>\r\n\r\nwrong. if it was an oblique
    i would have just slanted the forms. formation of a, f, g, h, j, m, n, r, s, u,
    y are very much taken from handwritten cursive motions."
  created: '2007-11-13 21:45:20'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "The 'My Fonts' explanation states:\r\n\"Commodity\u2019s italics are surprising
    for geometric faces, heavily inspired by handwritten forms\"\r\n\r\nI would say
    the opposite. The italic is more like an oblique, and apart from the slanted verticals,
    I see no heavy handwritten inspiration.\r\n\r\n\r\n(btw, kudos to Patrick for
    initiating this interesting post, very brave)"
  created: '2007-11-13 21:55:23'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: Patrick said that Commodity had originally been released by thirstype. I see
    that this company still exists, so wonder why they don't still carry the font.
    I read somewhere that Lucas De Grote pulled his Thesis fonts out of the FontShop
    collection and released them himself. Is it the same story here?
  created: '2007-11-13 22:42:57'
- author:
    name: argonaut
    picture: 113597
  body: "i think Commodity is a simple font, too simple to justify the price, mostly
    compared to other fonts in the same site.\r\n\r\nfor the untrained eye, it might
    look similar to some of these fonts\r\nhttp://www.dafont.com/theme.php?cat=301\r\n\r\nfor
    the trained eye, it is rather simple, and at prices that compete with, for example:\r\nhttp://www.emigre.com/EF.php?fid=84
    or\r\nhttp://www.emigre.com/EF.php?fid=107\r\n\r\ni obviously will buy Cholla
    or Modula. after all, they're Emigre fonts, and you can see the sweat in each
    of their so many details. it just makes me happy by merely looking at them.\r\n\r\nit
    seems to me (i repeat that: it \"seems\" to me) that half a day and FontCreator
    will allow me to reproduce it. seems like a series of boxes with a median line,
    some slants and a differently-looking quirky k (personally i find the k disturbing
    as it does not keep any proportion). Commodity does not surprise me, does not
    excite me. and by its selling history, it might not be exciting others as well.\r\n\r\nRevenant
    has personality, reminds me of Eurostile, but rather bolder, more streamlined,
    you can almost see a defined aggressive character in it. Fast Girls has it with
    its slashed computer-savvy roundness (a rounded sister to that old Chicago font
    for the first macs, which was a lovely mistake of a font), Smile has it with its
    geometrically-disturbed guts brings memories of Buro Destruct typeness. Commodity
    lacks that character your other fonts have.\r\n\r\nthis is not a harsh critic,
    it is an opinion. you have very good intense fonts. kudos and keep it going.\r\n\r\n--\r\nargonaut
    | sans faux pas"
  created: '2007-11-13 22:48:19'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "honestly mate it is too expensive and not very well dranw. That is wh\xA5
    noone will pay for it!! so just drop the price or drop the whining abd you;ll
    be right.\r\n\r\n-----------------------\r\nChopper Reid says \"Harden the fuck
    up\".\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-13 23:26:30'
- author:
    name: patricking
    picture: 111718
  body: "<em>I see that this company still exists, so wonder why they don\u2019t still
    carry the font.</em>\r\n\r\nthere is no intrigue at work. chester and i both helped
    build thirstype during our tenure at thirst. i left the company in '99. chester
    bought the assets for thirstype, then decided to roll it into the village umbrella
    brand. i asked chester to pull all my work from the brand last year as village's
    focus was changing to the point that my own work no longer fit his focus very
    well. we didn't complete that transition until very recently."
  created: '2007-11-13 23:27:44'
- author:
    name: NewGuy
  body: Thanks for your answer Patrick. It seems like there has been a movement away
    from the big impersonal foundries towards small, one-person companies. This seems
    to have gone hand-in-hand with the rise of online font shops, especially MyFonts.
    I wonder if anyone ever thought of doing a shop like MyFonts, but without all
    of the amateur garbage.
  created: '2007-11-13 23:48:38'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: Vllg?
  created: '2007-11-14 02:07:27'
- author:
    name: patricking
    picture: 111718
  body: yes, vllg. i'm not sure if that's the actual name of ches' company or simply
    the URL.
  created: '2007-11-14 03:23:19'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "Fair point Patrick, though my handwriting is more organic and flowing ; )
    \r\n\r\nPerhaps I am taking the claim too literally, to me a font like Frutiger
    Next Italic is \"heavily\" inspired by handwritten forms.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FrutNext_6132.jpg]"
  created: '2007-11-14 10:57:51'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I have to admit the most I would say is that it is a geometric font inspired
    in part by handwritten forms. But so what? Patrick can write whatever he likes
    - and should. Patrick, what kind of type stuff are you doing now? I am curious
    to see it if you are willing. I went through the PDF at 'house of pretty'.
  created: '2007-11-14 17:16:55'
- author:
    name: patricking
    picture: 111718
  body: "this is what i meant by heavily inspired by handwritten forms:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/motion_6132_6352.jpg]\r\n\r\nsame
    basic flow of motion. (squarer, obviously.)\r\n\r\neben, that PDF's out of date
    as all hell and was never very good to begin with. we've been too busy to really
    get a portfolio together. cobbler's new shoes, etc. that's actually my holiday
    project.\r\n\r\nthis is my current face. been in progress off-and-on for a few
    years.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Royal-Street-Bold_3899.gif]\r\n\r\nworking
    on two lighter weights that this one at the moment."
  created: '2007-11-14 17:24:14'
- author:
    name: patricking
    picture: 111718
  body: "also this sketch, which has no name.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture-2_3892.jpg]"
  created: '2007-11-14 17:28:28'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Cool! Thanks.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-14 17:58:35'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Nice. Thanks for sharing, Patric!
  created: '2007-11-14 23:33:12'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Hi again:\r\n\r\nRoyal Street looks like something already explored. The
    truncated lowercase e has an interesting look to it that you might want to apply
    to the other alphabets. The lite sans, tho familiar, is very nice. Perhaps even
    high fashion. \r\nPlease keep us abreast of its progress.\r\n\r\nGood Job!\r\n\r\nMikey
    :-)"
  created: '2007-11-17 08:10:24'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<cite>And just for the sake of my \u201Cagenda,\u201D has anyone ever heard
    of the brand name \u201CClaudianni,\u201D which appears to have offices in New
    York, London, Boston, and Chicago?</cite>\r\n\r\nBillboardcompanies sometimes
    put up campaigns or posters for non-existent brands, so they can test the hell
    out of their medium. Maybe that was the case here\u2026\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen
    BNO"
  created: '2007-11-24 14:13:53'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "Bert:\r\n\r\nI think that is acceptable as well. But I can't say I see the
    difference in a billboard company making up an enterprise for the sake of future
    profits and a typographer doing so in much smaller terms. The essence is the same:
    concoct a fake company, make it public in whatever medium (billboard or even a
    photoshop rendering of a billboard), and ultimately use the results to generate
    profit - regardless of what those results might be. In this case either results
    from testing a medium to convincing a potential client of possible uses for a
    typeface, logotype, whatever.\r\n\r\nThe answer in which I am interested in is
    whether or not this was a billboard company's test, or FontFont's creativity.
    'Cause there sure don't seem to be no \"Claudianni.\""
  created: '2007-11-26 12:28:42'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: The Fontshop examples in their catalogs are clearly ficticious. The following
    spread (in Font 003, where the "Claudianni" billboard image appears) shows trade
    dress for "ThereQuest" a shipping company. Later in the catalog there is an image
    of a pizza delivery vehicle named "Torpedo Hut."
  created: '2007-11-26 14:33:31'
date: '2007-11-10 02:18:36'
node_type: forum
title: i love my sans but nobody's buying it. can i get some thoughts on this?

---
