---
author:
  name: Steve Tiano
body: "After reading some about [[Frederic W. Goudy|Frederic Goudy]], I was struck
  by how prolific he was, how he had a tough breaks with fires destroying his workplaces,
  how he seemed to have a 21st century kind of knack for promotion, and how he was
  really disliked for this last. So I began to take a closer look at his types and
  decided I really like [[Goudy Old Style]]. I mentioned it on <a href=\"http://tianodesign.com/blog/?p=83\">
  <strong>my blog</strong></a>. I was surprised by one particular response I got from
  someone I respect who really  came down on Goudy Old Style. Is it really such an
  awful, dated face?\r\n\r\nI was actually thinking of filing it away and looking
  for a project I could use it on, but now I\u2019m wondering now how far off the
  mark I am when I look at it and like it.\r\n\r\nStephen Tiano, Book Designer, Page
  Compositor & Layout Artist"
comments:
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: 'I agree that it looks too early 20th century, and perhaps even too "American,"
    if that is something one can grasp with a typeface. I can''t see how I could ever
    use it, which is kind of funny, since I''m an American and sort of a history buff
    to boot :-/ '
  created: '2007-11-11 13:57:42'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "It is definitely dated, but there's something about the smoothness and elegance
    of the letterforms, especially the capitals, that I find appealing: Fred definitely
    knew how to make majuscules that evoke Imperial Rome's grandeur.\r\n\r\nOne thing
    I'm actually struck by now after having looked at his designs in depth is how
    much I \"recognized\" Goudy Old Style when I just looked it up, despite not having
    seen a sample of it in a while. There's no mistaking a Goudy typeface for someone
    else's, which does mean that it's a bit hard to use. However, some of his less-known
    faces I find to be surprisingly contemporary; check out Goudy Sans, Goudy Modern,
    Goudy Heavyface, Kaatskill, Goudy Ornate, and Goudy Text, all on <a href=http://www.p22.com/lanston/>Lanston</a>.
    I was especially surprised when I came across Goudy Sans, as I could see someone
    releasing it today, albeit as a sans-serif \"riff\" on the early 20th century
    and Art Nouveau. But maybe that's just a function of the new hairline weight,
    which I'd love to use someday."
  created: '2007-11-11 14:40:00'
- author:
    name: Gary Long
    picture: 112662
  body: "I like Goudy Oldstyle and don't find it \"dated\"---though it is a typeface
    you definitely wouldn't use for just anything. If it suits your subject matter,
    use it. My main beef with Goudy OS is that I haven't been able to find a good
    version that has been given a little more weight for offset work. Also, the fi
    and fl ligatures are too tight---don't use them.\r\n\r\nFor a long time Canadian
    govenment topographic maps used Goudy Oldstyle for the names of lakes and rivers,
    which were usually in italic. Goudy OS italic is wide and very legible."
  created: '2007-11-11 15:30:27'
- author:
    name: writingdesigning
    picture: 112522
  body: "\"and perhaps even too American, if that is something one can grasp with
    a typeface\u201D\r\n\r\nI don't know a great deal about that, but of another of
    his designs; Goudy Sans, I've always felt it had the same exuberance and quirkiness
    of some of the hand-painted street graphics one finds quite a lot in southern
    India!. Especially the italics. \r\n\r\nBut beyond underlining the point auricfuzz
    made about his designs being distinctive, I guess that's more a comment on India
    than on Goudy...\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-11 15:39:07'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "I like it! I especially dig its italics, aswell as its osf.\r\nDoes it work
    as a book face? Well, certainly not for <em>every</em> book, but which face does
    that? It\u2019s not streamlined and you can\u2019t call it cutting-edge \u2026\_but
    dated? I don\u2019t know. You don\u2019t spot it a lot in Europe \u2013 at least
    I haven\u2019t. \r\nThere are cases where GOS is very much appropriate and can
    help establishing a charming, dapper feeling. \r\n\r\nP.S.: The link to your blog
    is broken, so here you go: <a href=\"http://tianodesign.com/blog/?p=83#comments\">Stephen
    Tiano on Frederic Goudy</a>."
  created: '2007-11-11 16:05:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Goudy was great, and his typefaces will be used a hundred years from now,
    as they are now, 60 years after his death. Goudy Oldstyle was overused at one
    point, though it is still used widely. The Lanston version has the longer descenders
    that Goudy actually wanted. Various versions of his Californian are used a lot
    today in publications. Both Font Bureau's Californian and ITC Berkeley are widely
    used, and perhaps also Lanston's version, I don't know. \r\n\r\nIn general--except
    for Copperplate Gothic--they have a handmade feel and a very human warmth. Some
    people don't like this aesthetic, and some even hate it. But tastes are diverse
    enough that I think that such type will always have a place. \r\n\r\nGoudy did
    repeat himself a lot, and some of his stuff looks sloppy. With the later stuff,
    I put this down to his cutting his own faces, and not having outside critics,
    and especially not adjusting his faces for optical size. \r\n\r\n>I haven\u2019t
    been able to find a good version that has been given a little more weight for
    offset work.\r\n\r\nGoudy Catalogue is a version of Goudy Old Style cut by Morris
    Fuller Benton, and is a little heavier for smaller text. You might like that for
    some uses where you would find Goudy Old Style too light. "
  created: '2007-11-11 16:27:32'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: "And don't forget that Goudy Old Style was indeed the basis for this fabulous
    logotype by Herb Lubalin.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Mother_3812.png]"
  created: '2007-11-11 16:38:43'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "I like Goudy Oldstyle. Like Times and the Garamonds, it can take a lot of
    abuse in text settings and still look good. And with care and attention, it can
    shine. Maybe it's overused and maybe it's dated, I don't know. But it is a well-crafted
    face.\r\n\r\nI haven't used Goudy Oldstyle for many years. Got tired of using
    it. Wanted to explore other faces. Yada, yada, yada. But I think I'll revisit
    Fred's work. Thanks, Steve, for reminding me..."
  created: '2007-11-11 16:38:58'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I don\u2019t worry so much about it looking dated\u2014I get off on that
    sort of thing\u2014but the lightness keeps me from using it for text. To me it\u2019s
    like trying to read some of the really light Baskervilles, which just make me
    squint."
  created: '2007-11-11 17:00:49'
- author:
    name: Steve Tiano
  body: "My thanks to everyone for taking the time to answer. And thanks, Florian,
    for giving a good link. I sometimes forget that when I type fast, my touch grows
    lighter in spots and I create typos despite actually touching the correct keys.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    pleased that others like Goudy Old Style to any extent. Goudy himself appears
    not to be as well thought of as he deserves, and that is a shame. Not simply because
    he was prolific, but\u2014as in the case of his Old Style\u2014because he did
    some really fine work that doesn\u2019t seem to have been appreciated.\r\n\r\nFor
    myself, it\u2019s not as if I need validation to my taste, as I\u2019m entitled
    to bad taste, if that\u2019s what it is. But I do care that my judgment of it\u2019s
    potential usefulness today in a book isn\u2019t way off the mark. I agree, however,
    that\u2014as with pretty much any typeface\u2014it is important to match it with
    an appropriate setting, with subject matter that is a good fit."
  created: '2007-11-11 17:15:06'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: I think a lot of the "bad reputation" of most of Goudy's work comes from the
    lasting influence of someone like Stanley Morison, who really disliked the man
    and his typefaces.
  created: '2007-11-11 17:25:10'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Steve\r\n\r\nGoudy Old Style was the first new metal typeface I ever bought.
    I don't know that I would use it now, mainly I guess because of over familiarity.
    But I have put up something for you over at my Type Road that I hope you enjoy.\r\n\r\nhttp://bielerpressii.blogspot.com/\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2007-11-12 02:18:59'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "At small sizes GOS looks better than I would expect, given how ugly it looks
    to me close up. But there are better Goudy types, especially if you're prepared
    to do a little editing. LTC/P22 Kaatskill, for instance, seems to me fundamentally
    better, but like most Goudy types it has its flaws. I tweaked eight glyphs in
    the roman that I thought could be improved, and the result is almost a workhorse.
    P22 allow editing, by the way.\r\n(My tweaks were taking off the left part of
    the stroke on Q, redrawing the right leg on R, giving W a symmetrical cross-over,
    thickening the bars on f and t, slightly re-balancing the lower bowl on g, lightening
    the join on r, and pulling fractionally rightwards and lightening the bulb of
    y's descender. I originally made other changes, such as normalizing the asymmetrical
    o, which turned out not to be improvements.) "
  created: '2007-11-12 03:51:53'
- author:
    name: Steve Tiano
  body: "Gerald, thank you very much. After the weird weekend I\u2019ve had, it\u2019s
    nice to call it a night with a reading like that. That\u2019s pretty funny. You
    know, I\u2019ve read a bit on Morison\u2019s comments about and attitude towards
    Goudy and his work. Most of it sounds mean and petty. There were others, too,
    who did their best to diss Frederic. No one\u2019s promised fair, but the way
    hew was spoken of and treated by some doesn\u2019t seem <em>right.</em>\r\n\r\nStephen
    Tiano, Book Designer, Page Compositor & Layout Artist"
  created: '2007-11-12 05:06:07'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I used Goudy Old Style a few times in my early days (who didn't, back then?).
    I suppose I would be one of those who thinks it looks dated. I wouldn't go so
    far as to say I *hate* it, but it's not high up on my list. When I encounter a
    book set it in it, I generally think it is a lackluster and uninspired choice.
    \r\n\r\nIf I were forced at gun point to use a Goudy face now, the Old Style would
    not be my choice. But that's just my taste. \r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-12 13:29:51'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Kent: \"I would be one of those who thinks it looks dated\"\r\n\r\nI have
    always found that in typography \"dated\" is a troubling concept. Except, at othe
    times I find it laughable. Everything is dated, even if it is-up-to-date unless
    there is an expiry date. Type is \"not\" a perishable product. We are not dealing
    with radishes and turnips. Typography is an evolution and if anyone has learned
    anything it is that if you break the rules of typography what do you get? Bad
    typography?\r\n\r\nGoudy Oldstyle has not broken any rules yet it is \"original\".\r\n\r\nOne
    of the most revealing of Updikes errors was his back handed criticism of Goudy,
    He said, \"truth is the daughter of time\". Well, obviously Updike did not have
    a nose for the truth because Goudy is a valuable typographical asset. It is plain
    to see that many in the forum like Goudy oldstyle.\r\n\r\nIt would be wise to
    another peek at Goudy Oldstyle.\r\n\r\nGiampa "
  created: '2007-11-12 16:54:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "My late Uncle Ben Lieberman in his book \"Types of Typefaces\" had a category
    called \"Personal\" style, as  opposed to a more 'invisible' one, epitomized by
    Morris Fuller Benton. He put Goudy and Zapf (who is an admirer of Goudy) in that
    'personal' category. He also put Dwiggins and Van Krimpen there, but I am doubtful
    that they really belong in the same way. \r\n\r\nAt any rate, Goudy Old Style
    and Palatino both have a lot of 'flavor'. The only problem is that you many not
    like the flavor. Personally I like them both, but I can see why some don't. "
  created: '2007-11-12 18:55:56'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Unfortunately for me both of those fonts (Goudy and Palatino) date to the
    early days of digital design, when there were so few decent fonts available. I
    used them to death back then and frankly can't look at either of them anymore.
    Futura falls into that category for me too, as does Copperplate Gothic. I'm not
    even going to discuss Helvetica or Times Roman since I never ever use them.\r\n\r\nI
    like that categorization \"personal\" vs \"invisible\"."
  created: '2007-11-12 20:15:28'
- author:
    name: ryanholmes
  body: "Goudy Old Style is nice and classy. I still use it. For someone to say they
    \"hate it\" is really being a pedantic ass. As a designer, it would not be my
    first choice anymore, but in limited doses I'll use it a bit. For years I did
    my resume in Helvetica 95 headers and Goudy Old Style for text. Looked great.\r\n\r\nFor
    extended copy though, I second the opinion stated above about a preference for
    ITC Berkeley Old Style. It's tone is a bit more playful, so you need to be careful
    with the application. But Meta Headline bold or black headers/titling and Berkeley
    OS text looks great in combination. \r\n"
  created: '2007-11-12 21:37:34'
- author:
    name: Gary Long
    picture: 112662
  body: Because of its lightness I don't like to use Goudy OS at less than 12 pt for
    regular body text, but surprisingly it looks good with tighter leading than one
    would expect, and so despite its wide stance and my self-imposed point size restriction,
    it can be quite economical. Maybe it's the texture of the design that creates
    a pleasing page with relatively tight leading. In fact, looking at some books
    typeset in Goudy OS, I prefer the appearance of those with a larger point size
    and modest leading to those with small type and more generous leading.
  created: '2007-11-12 22:07:59'
- author:
    name: ryanholmes
  body: "Good point Gary--Goudy OS sets economical, so it really works well in justified
    text blocks. And I agree, modest leading is best. Goudy's lightness combined with
    too much white space = a page that does not work.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-12 22:30:42'
- author:
    name: Steve Tiano
  body: "Just reading the section on Goudy Old Style in the old type designer\u2019s
    own book, <em>Goudy\u2019s Type Designs.</em> Basically, three points:\r\n\r\n1.
    He didn\u2019t name it after himself and preferred it wasn\u2019t referred to
    that way.\r\n2. He saw it as an advertising, not a book, face.\r\n3. He himself
    \u201Cnever ... cared for\u201D it.\r\n\r\nStephen Tiano, Book Designer, Page
    Compositor & Layout Artist\r\nblog: http://www.tianodesign.com/blog"
  created: '2007-11-13 02:25:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">3. He himself \u201Cnever ... cared for\u201D it.\r\n\r\nThat may be because
    of the shortening of the descenders, which was against his will. The Lanston version
    restores the original full descenders. "
  created: '2007-11-13 03:19:14'
- author:
    name: johndberry
    picture: 109524
  body: "Goudy Old Style, like all of Goudy's typefaces, is distinctive and idiosyncratic.
    Even though we're all so used to it that it looks familiar, it's still a very
    peculiar typeface. \r\n\r\nBut the problem with Goudy Old Style isn't that. The
    problem is that there is no digital version that isn't much too light. Take a
    look at printed samples of the original metal type: there's nothing spindly about
    it. Yet digital versions (and before them photo versions) are nearly unusable
    because they don't take into account the ink spread that comes with letterpress
    printing. (And perhaps because they're based on too large a size of original;
    I'm not sure whether that happened with Goudy Old Style, but it certainly happened
    with other photo versions of popular metal typefaces.) Add to this the tendency
    of phototypesetters and digital typesetters to scrunch out the space between letters,
    and you end up with something more like a thicket of infinitesimal twigs than
    like black, readable type.\r\n\r\nGoudy Catalog is a darker alternate, but it's
    not the same typeface.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-13 06:42:23'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "John\r\n\r\nWell, metal type is usually viewed from specimens which incorporate
    ink spread and impression to a degree and give the illusion of weight. Fournier
    said it was not right to blame the letter for the fault of the ink. \r\n\r\nWhen
    one uses a digital font for letterpress printing, it is the spindly typeface that
    is preferable. If not, it has to be modified (reduced in weight) to look correct
    when printed (EULAs be damned). And yes, a bit a tracking (at the smaller sizes).\r\n\r\nGerald\r\n\r\nThe
    Bieler Press\r\nhttp://BielerPress.blogspot.com"
  created: '2007-11-13 07:16:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">The problem is that there is no digital version that isn\u2019t much too
    light.\r\n\r\nAh, that's probably why I have noticed it often looking quite nice
    on signs, but poor in text. On signs the light weight is optically appropriate. "
  created: '2007-11-13 18:02:32'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "\"Hate\" comes fairly close to it for me. \r\n\r\nIn the early and middle
    1980s I was a partner in a letterpress book printing shop. One year we had a contract
    for a quarterly journal set in Goudy Modern [metal Monotype]. The typeface's quirks
    were getting to us, so one day I went into the office, got a copy of one or the
    other volume of Updike, and my partner & I took a solemn oath never again to use
    a Goudy face for text.\r\n\r\nNext thing I know I'm an ad type director in Minneapolis,
    and something like 70% of the serif type specified by art directors at that agency
    was Goudy Old Style. Dang! I could not get away from it. I had to immerse myself
    in a study of the type and learn how to show art directors and typesetters how
    to make it look good. This was with Compugraphic's version, which, like most others,
    was too light for text sizes. I learned how to get the face set right, but I never
    did learn to love it. It is indeed too idiosyncratic for my taste in book work.
    When I have the choice of types, I will not use any Goudy faces. If I HAD to use
    a Goudy face nowadays, I'd take a look at some of the Lanston versions. Or I might
    just agree to be shot in the head.\r\n\r\n& I agree with Kent: I see little work
    set in GOS that appears to have been carefully done. \r\n\r\nI also feel the same
    way about most of Zapf's faces.\r\n\r\npowers\r\n\r\nPS: I had some great November
    turnips from my Iowa cousin's garden last night. Really tasty. Good turnips have
    a bit of a tang to them, and that can remind me of some of the  flourishes seen
    in Goudy's types. They are OK in turnips, but not in types."
  created: '2007-11-13 19:25:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I also feel the same way about most of Zapf\u2019s faces.\r\n\r\nI think
    the 'personal' styles of type have a problem that you can get sick of their assertive
    and sometimes quirky features. Maybe they are inherently better as display than
    as text. I see a lot of signs that I think look very good not only in Goudy Old
    Style, but also in Palatino. But I can't remember the last time I really liked
    the look of text in either one. (It may be that Aldus works well, I don't know.)
    \r\n\r\nSomehow the stylistic assertiveness is appealing in many display situations,
    and tiresome in text... "
  created: '2007-11-13 19:43:41'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: ">(It may be that Aldus works well, I don\u2019t know.)\r\nFor sure, one of
    the best book faces from the (digital) past. Was a pleasure to read it \u2026"
  created: '2007-11-13 20:08:46'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "I LOVE GOUDY OLD STYLE!\r\n\r\nWhen I had a type shop in New York - my logo
    was done in Goudy. It is a lovely face, easy to read, and always looks new and
    fresh. I am amazed by how many do not recognize Goudy when they see it. \r\n\r\nWell
    maybe I didn't have anything else to add - but I had to cast my vote - Yea Goudy!"
  created: '2007-11-13 21:18:33'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Will: I'm not sure it's worth letting oneself get shot over ;-) \r\n\r\nThat
    said, if forced I'd probably make a go of Deepdene. Might have to make my own
    version -- but I would bet that Lanston's is good (haven't examined it closely).
    I've also seen Lanston's digital Kaatskill used to good effect on occasion. Even
    used it myself. \r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-13 23:28:38'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Wil,\r\n\r\n\"Good turnips have a bit of a tang to them, and that can remind
    me of some of the flourishes seen in Goudy\u2019s types.\"\r\n\r\nI closely examined
    Goudy's \"Remington Typewriter\" and was unable to find the flourishes you speak
    of. I find it rather tangless.\r\n\r\nHow are you doing these days? You wouldn't
    know what happened to Clifford Burke would you?\r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2007-11-14 04:16:39'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Gerald: you are right, of course. Not all Goudy faces have tangs to them.
    Some are as tangless as potatoes. & that's all right. I guess I was mostly thinking
    of the faces that one might use for text / book work.\r\n\r\nDrop me a private
    note to william.powers@mnhs.org and I'll fill you in on Clifford Burke, etc.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2007-11-15 14:33:36'
- author:
    name: David Sudweeks
    picture: 112594
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ron Paul Poster_5534.png]\r\nI just used
    it last night making this wordmark. This is my first time using the face at all."
  created: '2007-11-15 14:45:46'
- author:
    name: Petraio Prime
  body: "The digital forms available now are way too light.\r\n\r\nIt's also kind
    of 'mushy'."
  created: '2018-07-26 04:44:00'
date: '2007-11-11 12:57:39'
node_type: forum
title: Anyone Hate Goudy Old Style?

---
