---
author:
  name: Rolandillo
  picture: 110823
body: "Dear Typophiles!\r\n\r\nA more philosophic question for once...\r\n\r\nI have
  to fullfill an assignment and I want to write about the social responsibility of
  Type and Typography.\r\n\r\nThat's a big question \u2013 I know \u2013 and in the
  end, the answers will be personal opinions or other questions. But in order to find
  my own position I would like to start a little discussion to this topic, here and
  now :-)\r\n\r\nOf course I was already thinking about this topic and I first wanted
  to narrow the thing a bit down, but then I thought it's better to just keep everything
  open. I'm just curious about what you guys think is social responsibility in our
  job? how do you bear this responsibility (if there is such a thing) in your daily
  work? Are there (historical) examples, that (kind of) support your arguments?\r\n\r\nAnd
  now, go operate your keyboards untill they melt!!! :-D"
comments:
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "This has kinda been covered\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/29708"
  created: '2007-11-12 23:52:21'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I second Patty\u2019s motion. Lets not have another one of those conversations;
    I already had to send a flaming email to some gibbering Marxist at Cranbrook this
    morning\u2026"
  created: '2007-11-13 00:26:59'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...what you [people] think is social responsibility in our job?\" \r\nThere
    was another thread, previously linked to from this thread, that discusses s.r.
    in general graphic design, but that thread, though it ranged from Sinatra and
    the Pharaohs to Ethics and the CIA, left little room for type. I think, in general,
    responsibility has more grip on g.d. where the end result is \"in sight\".\r\n\r\nDifferent
    kinds of responsibility may be found throughout the spectrum of type design, from
    those working on complex systems of fonts for the typography of rich but unseen
    documents, to those working on the perfection of the letters for a single word
    they know all too well. Are you talking about type design, or graphic design?
    \ \r\n\r\n\"..how do you bear this responsibility (if there is such a thing) in
    your daily work?\"\r\nI don't purchase print products as much as possible. I force
    myself, activity by activity, to use digital alternatives, improving them and
    propagating appropriate improvements to others as much as I can along the way.\r\n\r\n\"Are
    there (historical) examples, that (kind of) support your arguments?\"\r\nWhat
    argument? :)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-11-13 14:15:16'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: '''The social responsibility of an [x]'' topics that seem to pop-up seem to
    not really depend on what [x] is. Isn''t social responsibility universally social
    responsibility regardless of what particular industry/product one is in?'
  created: '2007-11-13 18:28:37'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: It means not designing custom fonts for Monsanto, Halliburton, or Mitt Romney's
    presidential campaign.
  created: '2007-11-13 18:30:21'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Isn\u2019t social responsibility universally social responsibility
    regardless of what particular industry/product one is in?</cite>\r\n\r\nThat depends
    on whether or not one sees morality as relative or absolute. And more often than
    not, the answer is probably going to be no."
  created: '2007-11-13 20:16:19'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"That depends on whether or not one sees morality as relative or absolute.\"\r\n\r\nRight.
    The question depends on one's opinion of that statement...not what one does for
    a living.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-13 20:34:58'
- author:
    name: Rolandillo
    picture: 110823
  body: "First \u2013 thanks to everybody!\r\n\r\nDavid \u2013 you're right, now that
    I saw the other thread as well it might be wise, to either close my thread (like
    James kinda suggested) or to push it into the type-direction. To me the latter
    would be more satisfying, since the \"end result\" will actually be type. To give
    it a try \u2013 Gerard Ungers Gulliver is an attempt to create a typeface, that
    is economic. In other words it safes paper and thus trees. Behind it's design
    there was that \"ecological\" concept and out of this idea Gulliver was born.
    I think this is an example what social responsibility COULD be... What do you
    think?\r\n\r\n@ aluminum. Of course \u2013 everybody is socially responsible.
    But how does this manifest in your/our work. Do we as typedesigners or typographers
    have an impact?"
  created: '2007-11-13 21:01:27'
- author:
    name: Rolandillo
    picture: 110823
  body: Oh! And thank you very much patty for showing me this interesting thread.
    I really was looking if there is allready something but did not find it... Wrong
    keywords I guess. Thank you very much!
  created: '2007-11-13 21:12:57'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I think this is an example what social responsibility COULD be... What
    do you think?</cite>\r\n\r\nI think that before you start worrying about what
    it could be, worry about whether it exists at all. Read up on Immanuel Kant and
    Ayn Rand\u2019s ethical systems\u2014deontology and objectivism, respectively\u2014and
    then start to think about social responsibility again. Ethical notions really
    don\u2019t have much value without some kind of solid foundation underneath of
    them."
  created: '2007-11-13 23:21:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Quite apart from Gerard's motivation for Gulliver, type designers have been
    trying to cram more words into less space and make it look bigger from day one.\r\nSo
    you have to separate intention from effect from bullshit (pardon me, I mean marketing).\r\nIs
    it really responsible to hype the newest biggest Airbus as being environmentally
    friendly?"
  created: '2007-11-13 23:27:29'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Something else to consider is the difference between environmental responsibility
    and self-preservation. In other words, I don\u2019t recycle because I care about
    polar bears, penguins, the River Ganges, or my (potential) children. I do it because
    screwy weather scares me."
  created: '2007-11-14 00:57:26'
- body: "\r\nJames: the screwy weather scares the polar bears, too. "
  created: '2007-11-14 03:18:55'
- author:
    name: Rolandillo
    picture: 110823
  body: "Thanks Nick \u2013 that would have been my next question. The intention and
    probably a need for this \u2013 let's say invention \u2013 are relevant. Otherwise
    one can interpret social responsibility into everything. \r\n\r\n@ James \u2013
    Hahaaa :-) Nice said! And of course true... Of course its a big difference between
    responsibility and \"survival\" but the effect is probably the same. In other
    words, I don't care WHY people care about the environment \u2013 as long they
    do. Jared Diamond wrote this very nice in his \"Collapse\". He had to work with
    some global players and they had other motivations than penguins and polar bears
    \u2013 so he had to argue on another level but the results were quite remarkable.
    Thanks for the reading suggestions \u2013 I'll check that out.\r\n\r\n@Alaskan
    \u2013 Social responsibility could also mean to teach those polar bears swim long
    distances, preferably southwards... But I guess the penguins wouldn't understand
    this as very social responsible... :-)\r\n\r\nThanks a lot!"
  created: '2007-11-14 10:28:08'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I have not read \"Collapse\" yet, but I'm planning to do so when I can follow
    the title into vacation time.\r\n\r\nI agree with the purpose of Gulliver, it
    is an old purpose, i.e. before news on the web was practical, lot's of volume
    publishers of tomorrow's garbage sought narrower (and smaller) fonts for purely
    financial reasons. But today, with trees not used much for paper, (volume publishers
    of daily publications normally use recycled pulp of some kind), the current frontier
    of typographic activism is elimination of printing day-after-use garbage altogether.
    Or at least, that's what I think. \r\n\r\nOn another trail, there is a problem
    with thinking that \"your fonts\" will only be used for environmentally friendly
    purposes if they are at all suited to print use. But Nick says: \"Is it really
    responsible to hype the newest biggest Airbus as being environmentally friendly?\"
    If you don't then you're standing at the corner of No-Travel and Don't Move. I
    don't travel much because my carbon footprint can't come with me, so it is pure
    burning man to go away without a dire need. However, I know lots and lots of,
    people will be doing so regardless of my private concerns... so why not root for
    a more efficient aeroplane? \r\n\r\nAnd, I see no difference between relative
    and absolute morality, they are both 8 letters, and are usually about the same
    width. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-11-14 12:11:50'
- author:
    name: Artur Schmal
    picture: 110750
  body: "I've been wondering how to apply the [[http://www.mcdonough.com/cradle_to_cradle.htm|cradle
    to cradle]] concept to typedesign for some time now. Any thoughts on this?\r\n\r\nArtur"
  created: '2007-11-14 14:50:19'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I think trying to adapt the enormously broad concept of social responsibility
    to the rather narrow field of type design may not be the best use of our time.
    The use the fonts are put to  (or who buys them) is usually way out of the hands
    of the designer. I mean one can hardly place your fonts off limits to, say, republican
    presidential candidates. In other words, aside from designing custom fonts for
    big oil or pharmaceutical companies it's hard for me to think of a way that a
    type designer can be socially irresponsible, professionally. And since the wider
    idea of socially responsibility in graphic design has already been covered in
    another thread...\r\n\r\nI say buy compact fluorescent lightbulbs, use public
    transportation and vote. Donate some of your earnings to causes you believe in.
    Carry around a reusable tote bag. Give an old lady or a pregnant woman your seat
    on the bus. Don't buy gold or diamonds. Avoid fast food restaurants and chain
    stores - try to eat locally produced, organic food. Don't eat chilean sea bass
    or other threatened fish. Keep after your elected officials, urge them to vote
    responsibly. Shut off the water while you brush your teeth. Try to avoid products
    made in countries that don't have good employment or environmental practices (such
    as China). Take to the streets to support causes that are important to you. Don't
    force your daughter to undergo female circumcision. The list goes on.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-14 15:42:55'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Do we as typedesigners or typographers have an impact?\"\r\n\r\nYou as
    a human have an impact. As a type designer, I dunno...be sure to use recycled
    paper note pads for your sketches and don't make fonts for the terrorists. But,
    really, I'm struggling to come up with any type-centric issues regarding social
    resposibility."
  created: '2007-11-14 19:36:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the current frontier of typographic activism</em>\r\n\r\nWhat are the
    maths of paper vs. pixels?\r\nWith the rollover rate of hardware upgrades, and
    the energy costs of server farms, not to mention all the digital pages that get
    printed out anyway, I suspect that digital has a larger footprint than print.
    \r\n\r\nDo flat-panel LCD screens use more power than CRT monitors?\r\nWhy isn't
    \"standby mode\" illegal?\r\n\r\n<em>why not root for a more efficient aeroplane?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    would if there were a cap on emissions.\r\nBut reducing the rate of per-mile pollution
    is being used to greenwash an increase in overall travel miles, and overall pollution.\r\n\r\nThe
    current Toyota TV ads for their \"green\" cars make me sick, showing a guy driving
    and \"making the planet safer for his children\". Take transit dude, or get on
    a push-bike. "
  created: '2007-11-14 20:50:44'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "The type industry has already had an impact: fonts are now ethereal digital
    phantoms; they take no resources to propagate, sell, store or use. They can be
    used purely in digital output media, they can be recycled (look at the lifespan
    of digital type compared to other software), and they create no waste when they
    are deleted. The ultimate green product!  ;)\r\n\r\nUSING type (i.e. typography)
    can take advantage of waste-free or socially responsible methods, but it's hardly
    the province of typographers to insist on socially conscionable media, methods
    or materials when the publisher, writer, soda-pop company or TV conglomerate calls
    all the shots. \r\n\r\nIn other words there isn't really a meaningful link between
    social activism and type design. My cooking skills, my spending habits, my recycling
    strategy, My political affiliation, can all carry on without influence on, or
    from, my work as a type designer."
  created: '2007-11-14 22:19:16'
- author:
    name: Rolandillo
    picture: 110823
  body: "To patty and aluminum: I completely see your point and I somehow agree, but...
    You say, that as an individual I have an impact. And you say, that this has nothing
    to do with our trade. But what I ask myself is, why is it then, that these questions
    about social and environmental responsibility etc. so often pop up in discussions
    with people involved in type- or graphic-design?\r\nTo me it looks like there
    are two things relevant here. The first is, that we work with mass-media on a
    daily base. We know exactly how powerfull these information channels are and we
    spend a lot of time in making them accessible for people to get a certain information.
    We have kinda control how this thing is going to look like, but we rarely have
    control over the content. This can \u2013 in some cases \u2013 lead to frustration.\r\nThe
    second thing is, that our trade has certain, lets say \"artistic\" aspects. Artists
    tend to be critical and idealistic.\r\n\r\nIf we look back in time many typographers
    or graphic-designers have become autors themselves. They know the channels, they
    have contacts to publishers and printers and they know how to make printed stuff
    \u2013 to me it's only logical, that sooner or later some of them start to write.\r\n\r\nConsidering
    these things I could imagine, that there IS something to discuss about this topic
    in relation to our trade.\r\n\r\nTo the discussion of the green cars... I agree
    with David \u2013 as long as we can not assume, that everybody acts responsible
    and instead of the car takes his bike, we must assume, that they use the car.
    So if this car runs with a very low petrol usage compared to the average, this
    might be a big success... And in that relation it actually might be a green car.
    Allthough, Nick \u2013 these ads make me sick as well... :-)\r\n\r\nGood Night
    and thank you guys! "
  created: '2007-11-14 23:53:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Good Night and thank you guys!\r\n\r\nBe sure to turn out the lights, as
    Thatcher once said.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-14 23:57:50'
- author:
    name: Rolandillo
    picture: 110823
  body: "Oh \u2013 to Arthur... I just got a grip on cradle to cradle, but did not
    dive into it deeply yet. But this might be interesting \u2013 thanks."
  created: '2007-11-14 23:59:18'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I suspect that digital has a larger footprint than print.\"\r\nThen I guess
    you're just fine with your paper world. Do any daily papers in Canada come with
    a calculator built in?\r\n\r\n\"The current Toyota TV ads for their \u201Cgreen\u201D
    cars make me sick\"\r\nYou like Momma Bear, Papa Bear and Baby Bear Hummer ads
    better? Join  the fiction of these ads: imagine that after the guy's dropped the
    kids at school, he picks up a carload of evironmental activistas, takes them to
    a remote spot where the bus don't go,  and lets them beat up on illegal whalers.
    \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-11-15 12:21:08'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026he picks up a carload of evironmental activistas, takes them
    to a remote spot where the bus don\u2019t go, and lets them beat up on illegal
    whalers.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn my imagination he leaves them there, they starve to
    death in the woods, and I go most of a summer without an infestation of Greenpeace
    volunteers begging me for money every time I walk the dogs."
  created: '2007-11-15 14:26:25'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Here is somebody selling a \"green\" font:\r\n\r\nhttp://printgreener.com/product.html#font\r\n\r\nThey
    make it sound like they invented \"condensed\"."
  created: '2007-11-15 14:52:27'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"why is it then, that these questions about social and environmental responsibility
    etc. so often pop up in discussions with people involved in type- or graphic-design?\"\r\n\r\nGuilt.\r\n\r\nThe
    world of graphic design, for the most part, is an industry based on pure consumerism.
    While one could argue that there are all sorts of non-consumerist areas of graphic
    design, without consumerism, we just wouldn't be that large of an industry.\r\n\r\nAnd,
    of course typographers depend a lot of graphic designers, so there's that ecosystem.\r\n\r\nTo
    get back to the guilt issue, I think the issue is that we talk a lot about it
    because we are indirectly helping destroy the planet by doing what we do...help
    sell crap.\r\n\r\nI think there are two mindsets that 'commercial artists' can
    have, neither being any better/worse in my opinion:\r\n\r\n1) We are what we are.
    We help companies make money by providing better designed products, services,
    and advertising. The specific product/service is irrelevant, our only job is to
    help the customer meet their goals.\r\n\r\n2) We are a major decision maker on
    what succeeds and fails in the market place. We as designers should make a conscious
    analysis of every client and product we work with and establish if it's socially
    responsible for us to work with that client and/or/product.\r\n\r\nMarketers have
    the most guilt. Designers next in the chain of command. I don't think Typographers
    need to carry much guilt, as they are rather removed from the actual commercial
    message, IMHO.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-15 15:42:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...after the guy\u2019s dropped the kids at school...</em>\r\n\r\nChildren
    should walk (or cycle) to school.\r\nCar advertising should be banned, like cigarette
    advertising."
  created: '2007-11-15 15:51:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Try to avoid products made in countries that don\u2019t have good employment
    or environmental practices (such as China)\r\n\r\nWith all due respect, I think
    this view is rooted in an ignorance of what is going on in the world, an ignorance
    shared by most Americans, and represented most glaringly by Lou Dobbs on CNN.\r\n\r\nIf
    you want to boycott such goods, you are going to have to also avoid every product
    made in poor countries, and by illegal migrants to the US. For a start all computers,
    which have many components made abroad and in developing countries. For example
    Intel's huge new plants Chengdu. Read [[http://www.intel.com/jobs/China/index.htm|here]]
    about Intel's factories around China, including in Chengdu. Chengdu is especially
    favored because it is in the poor interior, and there will be low cost, high quality
    labor for many years. So if you want to boycott Chinese goods, you can basically
    shut down your computer and close up shop as a designer.  \r\n\r\nFor a more informed
    view of the situation, I would highly recommend going to Beijing and Shanghai
    and Chengdu, as I have, and see the life there and talk to people there about
    how life has changed for them. In the past 20 years people who were formerly quite
    poor are now living middle class and prosperous lives. Shanghai is like New York
    City and Beijing like DC in the feel of their prosperity. Though most of China
    is still poor, we are talking about a transformation in the lives of as many people
    as the entire population of the US. This is a tremendous blessing to a huge number
    of people. And this has been built on trade to the US and Europe. \r\n\r\nDo you
    really want to impoverish the Chinese by shutting down their trade with the US
    and Europe? Oh, and the Chinese government holds huge portions of US bonds, underpinning
    our economy, so our economy will collapse along with theirs, when we all stop
    buying Chinese goods. So you will wreck the lives of both Chinese and Americans.
    Will Lou Dobbs then be happy? I don't think so. \r\n\r\nThere are serious abuses
    of workers, denials of political rights, and environmental problems in China.
    But to only focus on these is to be ignorant of the reality of the tremendous
    blessings of globalization. The grinding, desperate poverty of most of China and
    South Asia are now at long last being progressively remedied. This, and not only
    the evils that also have gone along with globalization, need to be recognized
    for an ethically sound reaction to the situation. "
  created: '2007-11-15 16:03:57'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "OMG!\r\n\r\nThe GreenPrint font hype is so absurd. As is the crappy font.
    Can't wait for the bloggers to shred that. It's not even April 1!"
  created: '2007-11-15 16:05:22'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: For what it's worth, it seems a little pointless to create a font like this
    since better designed fonts like this (i.e., condensed) already exist, they just
    aren't labeled "green". A better idea might be to create a guide to choosing and
    using existing fonts following the same principle. For example, if you use any
    font at a 10% smaller size, it will use almost 20% less ink for the same amount
    of text. Creating a "green font" seems like a gimmick.
  created: '2007-11-15 16:38:42'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Children should walk (or cycle) to school.</em>\r\n\r\nmy poor little
    cousins! they'd have to ride 5 miles to and from school on the interstate."
  created: '2007-11-15 16:44:35'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>With all due respect, I think this view is rooted in an ignorance of
    what is going on in the world\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nI think that can be said for
    a lot about leftist notions of social responsibility. The same goes for people
    who act smug about driving hybrid cars because they don\u2019t realize that the
    energy used creating and transporting the battery makes a Prius inherently worse
    for the environment than a Hummer. And that\u2019s before the batteries start
    getting old and need to be collected, transported, recycled, transported again,
    and so on. Or all the people who protest the World Bank and IMF for not forgiving
    their loans to poor nations, because they don\u2019t realize that most of the
    World Bank and IMF money to poor nations is either a grant or loaned interest
    free, and the interest-collecting loans go to projects in countries that can afford
    it. And don\u2019t even get me started on the people who demand that the US government
    pull out of Iraq and invade Sudan."
  created: '2007-11-15 16:45:03'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: I would be a much transformed designer if I could figure out how to care more
    about my clients and their needs rather than my work and how good/bad it makes
    me look. Yes there are physical things you can do, such as buying the power for
    your computer from an alternative source, blah blah. But I think dialing back
    our own self-importance about 300 notches would be a great start. In other words,
    our relationships leave the most room for improvement.
  created: '2007-11-15 16:49:19'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>In other words, our relationships leave the most room for improvement.</cite>\r\n\r\nVery
    true, but how many clients really want that kind of relationship with their designers
    as opposed to the number who just want the designer to bang out an ad without
    having to be told to make the logo/image/whatever bigger?"
  created: '2007-11-15 17:28:35'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "Neat topic. I've always felt a certian social responsibility as a designer
    to maintain the beauty of our environment. Without all of the things mankind has
    added to the environment, Earth is a beautiful place. We are human. We make stuff
    in an effort to make things better. Whatever we create, whatever we add, it should,
    at the very least, NOT be hard on the eyes. If it cannot be incredibly beautiful,
    it should at the very least be neutral (which is sometimes better). Lots of us
    make every effort to make that happen. This is where I curse computers and technology.
    While some of us use it well, lots more of us (us being everyone, not limited
    to professional designers) make incredibly ugly stuff with our personal computers
    and garbage up the whole picture. It's everywhere.\r\n\r\nSure, there was bad
    design when everything was printed on a C&P, but not everybody had a printing
    press in their house.\r\n\r\nI think it comes down to education. What we've got
    here is a social responsibility to educate the general public about design and
    help them gain an understanding of what is good and what is bad, and why it matters.
    A more widespread, generally accepted respect for good design...a world where
    everyone valued beauty more than speed and profit...is the ultimate goal. It seems
    like an almost impossible task.\r\n\r\nI feel a social responsibility to be both
    proactive (positively noting good design to people other than fellow designers,
    i.e. \"the choir\") and openly critical of everything that is ugly.\r\n\r\nLike
    that \"green\" typeface linked above...UGLY. And if we cannot agree that it's
    flat out ugly, we should at least be able to agree that it's not as beautiful
    as other previously existing typefaces that serve the same purpose. Therefore,
    in an ideal world, in a socially responsible world, nobody should use it. Someone
    destroy it before it destroys us.\r\n\r\nWhew! Nothing like a good tirade to get
    the juices flowing...I better get back to my socially responsible work before
    my boss catches me jagging off with this post!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-15 17:41:04'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Koppa, I agree that we have an inner need to fight ugliness, or as the Vignellis
    would put it, vulgarity. But I think that we have to be very careful about viewing
    that as a responsibility, especially when it comes to educating the public. There\u2019s
    a fine line between a teacher and a dogmatist, and a designer who tries too hard
    to shape the world into utopia can end up engaging in totalitarianism. Tschichold
    warned of this in his responses to Max Bill, discussing the way his experiences
    with Nazism affected his outlook on this stuff. "
  created: '2007-11-15 17:57:08'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "Agreed.\r\n\r\nOkay...this is going to sound ridiculous, but yesterday I
    started some text book \"basic\" powerpoint training (because I was told I \"need
    it\"). The book tells you everything you need to know about all of the different
    things you can do with the type and the layout of a slide. However, nowhere does
    it say anything about WHY you should (or should NOT) use these tools.\r\n\r\nSo,
    it's not that I think I know exactly how everything should be, or that there is
    an absolute right or wrong. It's just that too often we don't take the time to
    explain WHY we do things the way we do them. I've seen it happen in my department.
    The \"client\" asks, \"Why are we using this typeface?\" The answer is, \"Because
    that's our brand typeface.\" The client remains confused and the designer comes
    across as, as you say, dogmatic.\r\n\r\nTo summarize, if it's necessary, education
    is not simply saying, \"This is the way it is.\" It is explaining why we do things
    the way we do them. And if we don't know why, if it's all subjective, then it's
    just fluff. I feel a social responsibility to help others (and myself) understand
    why. Hey...I guess that make me some kind of why guy!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-15 19:32:31'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "@Koppa \r\nDid you see the <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/37310\">Rule
    or law thread</a>?"
  created: '2007-11-15 19:40:33'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I think that can be said for a lot about leftist notions of social responsibility.\"\r\n\r\nWhy
    use the word 'leftist' in there? It can be said for all notions of social responsibility.\r\n\r\n\"The
    same goes for people who act smug about driving hybrid cars because they don\u2019t
    realize that the energy used creating and transporting the battery makes a Prius
    inherently worse for the environment than a Hummer.\"\r\n\r\nExcept that that
    is neither necessarily true, nor takes into account the long-haul picture.\r\n\r\nsocial
    and environmental responsibility, unfortunately, is a) Highly complex b) highly
    politicized and, as such c) easily spun.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-15 20:00:23'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "Haven't read the Rule or Law thread, but just checked it out and it looks
    very interesting. Thank you.\r\n\r\nNow if only I can find the time to read it....it's
    a doozy!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-15 20:15:20'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "William Berkson the NeoCon... Go over to your local library and read up on
    'Trade Deficit', add to that, Communist China. Come back here to this thread,
    and try to sound just a little more intelligent/enlightened, ok?\r\n\r\nThanks.\r\n\r\n\r\n
    \r\n"
  created: '2007-11-15 20:16:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">William Berkson the NeoCon... try to sound just a little more intelligent/enlightened,
    ok?\r\n\r\nI am not a NeoCon. Also, name-calling and insults are a poor substitute
    for relevant facts and arguments.\r\n\r\nAlso the [[http://typophile.com/readme|guidelines]]
    for this forum specifically request: \"please refrain from any personal attacks
    of other typophile members on these boards.\"  "
  created: '2007-11-15 20:33:17'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "@ James Puckett\r\n\r\nMaking the client the problem is exactly what I'm
    hoping to avoid. No the customer is not always right, but all too often I'm ready
    to tell my buddies how lame the client is, and how they are keeping me from glory,
    when the same effort spent communicating with the client would be better stewardship
    of my words, time and ability.\r\n\r\nThis is something I'm really trying to work
    on in my job: how can I be excellent? Yes, make beautiful *things*. Yes, make
    functional *things*. But more important, how do I treat the *people* I work with
    and for? Even if they are difficult. I feel like I've spent a lot of time in my
    career worried about the first two, and relatively little worried about the last
    one."
  created: '2007-11-15 20:35:16'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "The point is not whether your ideas about social responsibility come from
    the left or the right. The point is to educate yourself and be socially aware
    and try to lead your life in accordance with what you believe is important socially
    (politically, environmentally) rather than to either blindly consume or rationalize
    behavior you know is wrong. Nobody gives a damn what a type designer believes
    to be socially responsible. The only way to make yourself heard is through your
    vote and your dollar (or euro, yen, whatever). And your voice.\r\n\r\nAnd of course
    each of us can only do our best. Here's a quote - and forgive me if I've put this
    up before - I may have:\r\n\r\nArtists and poets are the raw nerve ends of humanity.\r\nBy
    themselves, they can do little to save humanity.\r\nWithout them, there would
    be little worth saving.\r\n-Jimmy Ernst (son of Max)"
  created: '2007-11-15 20:36:40'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Why use the word \u2019leftist\u2019 in there? It can be said for all
    notions of social responsibility.</cite>\r\n\r\nProbably true, but there are big
    differences in leftist notions of social responsibility, rooted in pluralistic
    philosophies, and the notions of the right, which stem from individualistic philosophies
    and evangelism. So far this thread hasn\u2019t really delved into the latter.
    \r\n\r\nOf course, I have warped views of all this stuff because both sides send
    their respective bullhorn and sign toting annoyances out to tie up traffic in
    my neighborhood every time they get pissed off about something. At some point
    I may convert to Catholocism just so I can go live in a quiet monastery on top
    of a mountain and not hear about politics for a few decades\u2026"
  created: '2007-11-15 22:17:55'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Thanks to WB for those sensible comments on China.\r\n\r\nNick: The power
    needed for an LCD screen is about 1/3 to 1/2 of that for a same-size CRT. Plus
    they take up a tiny fraction of the landfill space, and they recover quicker from
    standby and waste less power doing that, too. Also, if you're in a warm climate
    where air conditioning is used, LCDs give off much less heat which would otherwise
    get compensated by more AC. Perhaps there are other issues with the materials
    involved in the screens themselves or the manufacturing thereof, but LCDs seem
    to be \"greener\" than CRTs.\r\n\r\nNote: Plasma displays also use more power
    than LCDs (not in use much any more for computers, but a significant consideration
    for TVs). C-Net reviews cover power consumption for TVs, btw. HDTV standby power
    consumption can be as low as a third of a watt or as high as 75 watts, so it's
    well worth checking.\r\n\r\nOn another point entirely: \"I mean one can hardly
    place your fonts off limits to, say, republican presidential candidates.\"\r\n\r\nActually,
    if you own your own type foundry and set your own license terms, I expect you
    can! You ought to check with a lawyer before you put it in your EULA, but I would
    be surprised if this runs you afoul of any civil rights issues or anything. It
    could be equally used to not let your fonts be used by any political group or
    party you happen to dislike. Whether it's a wise move or not is another question,
    of course. Few businesses that are essentially retail refuse to sell to anyone
    on the basis of their politics.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-11-16 01:53:43'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" ..more AC..\" !?\r\n\r\nRoll down the windows and let the wind blow back
    your hair (or not). \r\n\r\nNick's idea, (not Nick), is flawed by the notion that
    you can only use your computer for work, or some thing. Once you have a computer,
    however, continuing to purchase paper products that that computer can display,
    is...carbon fat.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-16 12:29:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">carbon fat\r\n\r\nI like reading ink on paper, so I've googled a bit on
    paper manufacturing to try to understand its carbon dioxide impact. Though it
    is a major consumer of energy, it doesn't seem to be a particularly bad net producer
    of carbon dioxide, and it may become completely carbon neutral.  \r\n\r\nTrees
    themselves eat carbon dioxide, and are a sustainable resource, when properly managed.
    They are a crop like any other, except that they take longer to grow to a point
    where they are used for paper, housing, and furniture. \r\n\r\nThe distinctive
    thing about the paper industry is that for energy it burns a lot of wood chips
    for fuel. This is relatively carbon saving as this US government report explains
    (C stands for Carbon dioxide production, E for Energy):\r\n\r\n\"The paper industry
    makes extensive use of wood byproducts as an energy source. Carbon dioxide emissions
    from wood consumption are considered to be zero, because the carbon that is emitted
    has been sequestered recently, and the regrowing of trees will again sequester
    an equivalent amount of carbon dioxide. Consequently, the paper industry has a
    relatively low C/E ratio, at 37.4 and 36.5 million metric tons carbon dioxide
    equivalent per quadrillion Btu in 1991 and 2002, respectively. In contrast, the
    primary metals industry, which uses large amounts of coal and other carbon-intensive
    fuels (e.g., electricity), has a high C/E ratio: 68.2 in 1991 and 68.7 in 2002.\"\r\n\r\nThis
    stuff about carbon neutrality of wood burning may just be industry BS, but at
    first blush it makes sense to me. Further, they are doing research to create plants
    that produce all their own energy from wood chips, making it net carbon neutral.
    This will also save the manufacturers money, so I think they are serious about
    it. \r\n\r\nThe really nasty thing in paper manufacturing is not carbon dioxide
    production, but rather the use of chlorine to bleach the paper, which leads to
    serious chemical waste products that sometimes end up in rivers. (Sulfur is another
    serious problem also.) The industry spends a lot of money to contain these problems,
    but evidently should do more. However, these don't seem to be technically unsolvable
    problems, so government regulation and industry innovation could deal with them.
    So the problems with pollution from paper manufacturing don't seem insurmountable.
    \ \r\n\r\nOh, and I read that 36% of new paper is from recycled paper... "
  created: '2007-11-16 14:25:55'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "And after all that, trees still make for really crappy paper.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-16 14:39:34'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>This stuff about carbon neutrality of wood burning may just be industry
    BS, but at first blush it makes sense to me.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think that the numbers
    probably work as long as sustainable forestry is practiced, ensuring that the
    carbon pumped out by the burning is being sucked up by new trees. Given how many
    managed forests have been created just to serve the needs of paper and furniture
    industries in Europe and the USA, it could be legit. \r\n\r\nBut I don\u2019t
    get the impression that paper companies in Asia have moved beyond just clearcutting
    land and spewing out crap paper, and there are still some US paper producers who
    make a pretty big mess. But now that printers and paper vendors are working with
    the FSC and going green, it\u2019s getting a lot easier to stick with paper products
    that aren\u2019t so bad. \r\n\r\nDoes anyone know much about the current state
    of hemp-based papers? I remember that the hemp producers in Eastern Europe were
    working on some really promising stuff a few years ago that would have made hemp
    papers suitable for use in high-speed presses, but I haven\u2019t heard anything
    about it lately."
  created: '2007-11-16 14:42:01'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"So the problems with pollution from paper manufacturing don\u2019t seem
    insurmountable.\"\r\n\r\nBill, I've been through this as you have said better.
    The issue, though is that the process: a newspaper leaving the editor's work station,
    landing in it's plastic bag at the end of my distant road, and making its journey
    back through recycling... is considerably more fat than the paper it's printed
    on. And even if I lived right next to the plant, and could take a copy right off
    the line, read it, and put it back into the recycling line for tomorrow's news,
    what would my computer be doing?\r\n\r\n\"I like reading ink on paper\" too. But
    it's not what I like or dislike that is the active ingredient, it is the creation
    of better options for billions of people to get the news without the print. And
    most of those billions live way way way outside the neat and trim Wisconsin-fostered
    view of forest products management, I grew up with, and you cite. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-11-16 15:10:10'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>And most of those billions live way way way outside the neat and trim
    Wisconsin-fostered view of forest products management</cite>\r\n\r\nand often
    in areas where paper isn't recycled, so better they read on their laptops anyway.\r\n\r\nI
    like reading ink on paper and get the Times delivered every day (and a TON of
    unwanted advertising blow-ins). I'm painfully aware of how much paper waste I
    generate. But we can only do our best as I said earlier, and if my newsprint consumption
    is offset by my not owning a car and using compact fluorescents then it's a start.
    I'm not ready to have maggots living in my garbage creating mulch just yet. And
    my laser printer sits idle most of the time thanks to pdf workflow (sorry EULAs)."
  created: '2007-11-16 16:26:30'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: 'I go to [[http://www.freerice.com|FreeRice.com]] when I''m waiting for files
    to FTP. It allows me to feed the third world and my ego at the same time. '
  created: '2007-11-16 16:39:36'
- author:
    name: Rolandillo
    picture: 110823
  body: "This seems to go very much into the field of environmental responsibility,
    which is very interesting and urgend as well, but I think this is a topic for
    everybody \u2013 not only (type-)designers. This was also mentioned above \u2013
    it's not entriely related to our job.\r\n\r\nTo me SOCIAL responsibility as a
    type designer could go in another, actually more obvious direction. \"We\" design
    typefaces and readability is a word that we use on a daily basis \u2013 but what
    is readability? There is very few scientific literature available about this topic
    and if there is something, then it is written from scientists from other disciplines
    such as psychology.\r\n\r\n\"We\" are making type \u2013 so should not we try
    to come up with an explanation? Shouldn't it be our goal to come up for example
    with solutions for dyslexia problems? I think of publications from Gerrit Noordzij
    (Das Kind und die Schrift) or Ungers \"While you are reading\". Try to find other
    publications from typographers or type-designers... There might be a few, but
    not as much as there could be in my eyes."
  created: '2007-11-16 18:20:28'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Shouldn\u2019t it be our goal to come up for example with solutions
    for dyslexia problems?</cite>\r\n\r\nOnly if someone can foot the bill and we
    want to do the work. Designers are not slaves, born to address the needs of others
    simply for the sake of doing so. We\u2019re human beings, and our goal should
    be to do whatever makes us happy without harming anyone or being financially dependent
    on unwilling benefactors."
  created: '2007-11-16 19:18:12'
- author:
    name: Rolandillo
    picture: 110823
  body: "<cite>Only if someone can foot the bill</cite>\r\n\r\nmoney is always a difficult
    thing when talking about social issues \u2013 that always has been a problem and
    i guess will always be. I think not much would happen in social and environmantal
    belongings if the first question would always be about money. But of course we
    need to eat something as well, but if you'll write a book about this I promise
    I'll buy one :-)\r\n\r\n<cite>Designers are not slaves, born to address the needs
    of others simply for the sake of doing so.</cite>\r\n\r\nOf course \u2013 I'm
    not expecting one to spend hours, days, weeks months... to do research, scientific
    analysis, writing and designing on a topic, that is completely out of his interests.
    But I wonder, that there seems to be no interest at all in these things, since
    these questions seem essential. And if we claim to be experts in designing typefaces
    and these typefaces are made for reading, it only seems logical to me, that we
    might want to find solutions for people that have problems with reading.\r\n\r\nI
    have to add, that I am not saying, that we can solve problems like dyslexia only
    with type-design, but there's a chance to improve some things and it's absolutely
    in our field of profession. Or am I completely wrong with this?"
  created: '2007-11-16 19:44:18'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I think not much would happen in social and environmantal belongings
    if the first question would always be about money.</cite>\r\n\r\nAre you serious?
    Starbucks has an executive who does nothing but environmental projects because
    every time they find a way to reduce waste they save money. Binderies suck up
    every scrap of paper in the place to sell to recycling plants in China. Hell,
    American public schooling only got good when captains of industry wanted smarter
    workers. The invisible hand gets a lot more done than you give it credit for.\r\n\r\n<cite>But
    I wonder, that there seems to be no interest at all in these things, since these
    questions seem essential.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t get the impression that there
    is no interest in these things. But the basics of human comprehension of text
    are a very new, very esoteric science, and the details can only be guessed at.
    For a designer to work on this stuff would really require a lot of study and interested
    partners. The Clearview team pulled it off with highway signage, and it could
    be argued (as I am in my research) that Spiekermann (among others) has done similar
    stuff with superfamilies designed for use by large organizations with varied needs."
  created: '2007-11-16 20:24:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">But I wonder, that there seems to be no interest at all in these things,
    since these questions seem essential.\r\n\r\nRolandillo, I don't think you have
    been following Typophile discussions much. There have in fact been many long--some
    would say excruciatingly long--discussions of these issues, in which a number
    of us are very interested. See the Typowiki on [[readability]], which has links
    to a few of these discussions. "
  created: '2007-11-16 23:37:40'
- author:
    name: tupper
  body: ">> Children should walk (or cycle) to school.\r\n\r\n> my poor little cousins!
    they\u2019d have to ride 5 miles\r\n> to and from school on the interstate.\r\n\r\nI
    cycle 10 miles a (school)day taking my daughter to and from school. The school
    has over 1,000 students. We're the only ones who bike regularly.\r\n\r\nIf we
    required that any transportation choices be at least 10% the efficiency of a bicycle,
    it would give motorists trouble (without taking into account fuel; accounting
    for fuel, I don't think any gasoline-powered car could even be within a tiny fraction
    of a percent as efficient).\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-17 03:43:24'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Overpopulation.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-11-17 04:55:28'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "<em>\"Also the guidelines for this forum specifically request: \u201Cplease
    refrain from any personal attacks of other typophile members on these boards.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nThink
    twice before taking cheap shots at folks who aren't on this forum William... <em>\"...
    an ignorance shared by most Americans, and represented most glaringly by Lou Dobbs
    on CNN.\"</em>\r\n\r\nSo while you're over at the library learning all about the
    perils of Trade Deficits, especially with countries like Communist China, see
    if you can grab a copy of Dobb's book, 'War on the Middle Class', and give it
    read.\r\n\r\nWhat qualifies you to insinuate that Lou Dobbs is an ignorant man
    William?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nNo insult intended..."
  created: '2007-11-17 05:33:42'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 'I cannot believe you are defending Lou Dobbs! '
  created: '2007-11-17 14:54:31'
- author:
    name: Rolandillo
    picture: 110823
  body: "<cite>Are you serious?</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, yes... kindof. I mean you defenitly
    have a point. If there is an obvious return on investment, there is always money,
    that's for sure. and as I mentioned earlier \u2013 I apreciate the effords made
    in this direction no matter what's the cause. But what I am talking about, are
    the issues where the return of investment is not so distinct. There the problems
    of getting money for such projects is always difficult. But getting the money
    is not the point of this topic. let's talk about the object and forget about constraints
    \u2013 at least for now.\r\n\r\n<cite>Rolandillo, I don\u2019t think you have
    been following Typophile discussions much.</cite>\r\n\r\nyour right! I'm not so
    frequent due to time management problems :-) But actually I'm not talking about
    discussions in internet forums. It is obvious, that readability is a big issue.
    Probably my explanation was not that clear. We all discuss a lot about these things,
    and I guess we all are very intersted in it, but what I'm talking about are publications
    based on a scientific research. That's what I miss. And my question is if not
    our trade is responsible for coming up with solutions here, who else should do
    it? I bring up the dyslexia example again... We know, that this is a psychological
    phenomenon, but do letterforms or the way children learn to write play a role
    here? My opinion is, that Type-Designers should be interested in this and I don't
    mean each and every individual, but the trade as a whole. It's clear, that not
    everybody who designs typefaces want to deal with this. But I just wonder why
    so few seems to be interested enough to start studying this topic together with
    psychologists... I think this might be very interesting, no?\r\nI don't do it
    myself, so no worries I did not mean to judge anybody. And the last question would
    be \u2013 could something in this direction be social responsibility related to
    typedesign?\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-17 15:44:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "> my poor little cousins! they\u2019d have to ride 5 miles\r\n> to and from
    school on the interstate.\r\n\r\nPlanning and zoning are an issue. City councils
    are in the thrall of sprawl developers and highway engineers (as opposed to bikepath
    engineers). They build subdivisions which discourage any mode of transportation
    (not to mention walking) other than the car.\r\n\r\nBut young parents also have
    the choice to live within walking distance of their children's school, and they
    don't make that a lifestyle priority."
  created: '2007-11-17 17:28:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Rolandillo, I think you are right that things directly involving our professional
    and personal activities are where our greatest impact and greatest responsibility
    lays. In personal relationships and in what we choose to do professionally. \r\n\r\nPersonally,
    I think one of the delights of type design is that is so innocent. As Ale Paul
    wrote, it is an act of optimism to try in an often very ugly world to add a little
    beauty and utility to it.  \r\n\r\n>What qualifies you to insinuate that Lou Dobbs
    is an ignorant man William?\r\n\r\nI don't think that qualifications are that
    important, since you ask, I will tell you. I did my PhD in history and philosophy
    of science under Karl Popper, who was knighted by the British for his book \"Open
    Society and its Enemies\". It reflects his intellectual reaction to his personal
    experience (in Vienna) of the rise of Communism and Nazism, and is a defense of
    the Western tradition of liberal democracy. Popper is regarded by many as one
    of the great thinkers of the last century. \r\n\r\nPopper was so to speak my introduction
    to political philosophy, which I have also taught. Though I have not published
    in this area, I am author of two published books, many academic articles, and
    a third book now submitted to publishers.  \r\n\r\nMy wife has a PhD from Harvard
    in development Economics and worked and consulted for the World Bank for 30 years.
    She has worked in poor countries in every continent, except in Eastern Europe,
    spending three months out of every year abroad. Our dinner table for over 30 years
    has been an on-going discussion of problems of world poverty and development by
    friends from every corner of the world with personal experiences of their home
    countries. As for experience abroad, I lived in London for five years while in
    graduate school, and I have visited my wife's home country, a middle level developing
    country, 6 or 7 times. One of my daughters was in the Peace Corps and we visited
    her last year while she was living in a mud hut in a poor village in one of the
    poorest countries in Africa. We talked with both poor folks and those in the intelligentsia
    of the country. \r\n\r\nA bit over a year ago I spent a month traveling widely
    in China. I speak a little Chinese, and my wife is fluent, so when things got
    complicated she would translate for me. We travelled for two weeks with a Chinese
    couple--the wife had never been out of her village--2nd class Chinese tourist
    style, and traveled for another two on our own. We talked to people continually:
    to the poor, to young professionals, to a business mogul, and to college professors.
    \r\n\r\nI will address the sins of Lou Dobbs in another post. \r\n\r\nBut meanwhile
    I've explained my background as it relates to knowledge of globalization. Since
    you think qualifications are so relevant, Neil, what qualifies you to insinuate
    that I am unintelligent and unenlightened?  "
  created: '2007-11-17 22:18:29'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I work in a paperless office - which means, of course we use 50% more paper
    than we did before we had computers. OK, I made that up, but it is clear that
    easy access to printers means lots of unnecessary printing happens and it may
    actually be realistic estimate. At home I print very little because I have to
    pay for my own paper and ink. I'm not so sure though that this is really the sort
    of issue that designers should focus on to be 'responsible'.\r\n  \r\nFor me,
    as a signage designer, I there are some significant environmental repercussions
    to much of what I do. Choices of type for example... (to try and keep it topical)
    A typeface that occupies 15% less lateral space than another obviously uses less
    materials. Choices in substrates, coatings and sheeting materials (though it's
    tough to get away from vinyls) and energy sources for illuminated signs can all
    have an impact. Then of course, there's the aesthetic impact. \r\n\r\nIt is difficult
    to go out into any part of the built-environment and not see at least a dozen
    signs. The consumption of materials used in sign making is huge and very wasteful.
    Vinyl and retro reflective sheeting comes in rolls which are fed into a plotters,
    which cut the letters. All the material around the letters is weeded out and thrown
    in the garbage. (roughly 75% to 80%). The backing material is thrown out, although
    sometimes it gets used to wrap or sandwich signs for shipping. These materials
    can not be recycled because of the adhesive and the non-stick coating.\r\n  \r\nSo,
    Maybe the use of a condensed typeface will mean less waste goes to the landfill,
    less demand on petrochemical and other natural resources and less energy consumed.
    less aluminum, plastic and plywood for substrates.\r\n  \r\nOn the other hand,
    if my products aren't readable, then everything about them is a complete waste
    of time and materials, and in the case of a wayfinding system,. even worse, may
    put people lives at risk.\r\n  \r\nOn the whole I find it difficult not to conclude
    that designers (present company probably not included) have been and are very
    irresponsible. In the face of giant bill boards, whose faces will be stripped
    off, thrown in the garbage and replaced with new ones every other month, vinyl
    wraps on public transit vehicles, acres of illuminated signs that run all night
    in empty strip malls, obscenely wasteful packaging, junk mail that goes directly
    into the recycling or garbage without even having the elastic bands removed, and
    on and on - every piece of it having been designed but someone. I'm glad I work
    where I do. The work may be mundane, but Every now and then I can tell myself
    it's for a good cause, and I design for longevity we are less wasteful also.\r\n
    \ \r\nThe idea of being a more responsible designer by being careful not to leave
    your computer running too long and switching to low energy light bulbs, or even
    the amount of paper you print off for proofs, or read your email, seems a little
    trivial. Everyone should do that. Designers are often in a position have a much
    more significant impact. Getting back to choosing an economical typeface, a difference
    of 15% of lateral space could mean a savings of tons of aluminum and plastic (literally)
    and thousands of square feet of vinyl and retro reflective sheeting.    \r\n  \r\n
    \ \r\n\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2007-11-18 00:07:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "That's interesting Russell. That brings to mind something I read from Hermann
    Zapf. He wrote that the problem with most street signage is that it is too big
    for the purpose, and would look much better smaller. I wonder what you think of
    his observation. \r\n\r\nOk, here's on Lou Dobbs. \r\n\r\nAt first I liked what
    he was doing because although I disagreed with him I liked the fact that he was
    discussing important issues--immigration and globalization--that everyone else
    was giving little air time to. But he has become so one-sided and insolent that
    I can't stand listening to his show any more.\r\n\r\nAs to ignorance, he has an
    undergraduate degree from Harvard in Economics, but you'd never know it from hearing
    him. He claims to be a champion of Adam Smith and the market place, but with him
    suddenly all pro free market arguments end with the border. I have heard him deny
    that they were ever meant to apply internationally. And he insults anybody who
    wants to apply them internationally. \r\n\r\nBut the fact is (to use Dobbs's favorite
    phrase) that the main point of Adam Smith was to advocate free markets internationally.
    The \"Wealth of Nations\" comes from productivity and trade in his view, not from
    the merchantilistic, protectionist policies that nations were following in his
    day.\r\n\r\nFor a factual rebuttal of Dobb's views on the massive net loss of
    jobs to 'overseas cheap foreign labor', here is an answer entitled [[http://www.dlc.org/ndol_ci.cfm?kaid=108&subid=206&contentid=254269|Lou
    Dobbs is wrong]] laying out why that isn't true.  \r\n\r\nBut my problem with
    Lou Dobbs isn't so much with his opinions as with his demagogic approach to journalism.
    He is not even so much ignorant as willfully putting on blinders. He appeals to
    fear of foreigners and badgers and heaps insults on everyone whom he disagrees
    with. The constant string of insults lowers and corrupts the standard of public
    discourse. This is standard with right wing 'hate radio', but now Dobbs has brought
    it to nativist populism. His behavior is just downright loutish. \r\n\r\nYou also
    can read a series of articles about his poor handling of the 'leprosy from immigrants'
    claim in the [[http://www.cjr.org/|Columbia Journalism Review]]; just do a search
    on his name at that site.\r\n\r\nI do feel that there is a profound ignorance
    leading to his attitudes. I see in him a lack of sympathetic understanding of
    foreign countries and people living in them. The increase of wealth in poor countries
    due to globalization over the past twenty years is one of the great triumphs in
    the history of humanity. The beginning of a major world-wide conquest of poverty
    is tremendously exciting and productive, and one of the great stories of our time.
    How can you cover the issue night after night and miss the most important story?
    I can only think that a lack of time spent in foreign countries, and the knowledge
    and understanding that would come with it is a cause. To be completely insensible
    to this great story, and never mention it is to me a great professional failing.
    \r\n\r\nIt is true that other journalists are not telling it either, and more's
    the pity. But for Dobbs to cover the issue constantly and not mention the main
    story--seemingly because it concerns the lives of foreigners--I really find reprehensible.
    \   \r\n\r\nAlso, as the linked article above explains, the loss of jobs abroad
    is not the problem domestically. The key problem domestically is increasing inequality
    of income in the US. This started under Reagan, and has continued apace under
    ever Republican president. But it is true that globalization and the international
    freer market and have created forces that are enriching the wealthy much faster
    than the mass of Americans, and leaving the poor behind--though in the US they
    are indeed materially hugely better off than in many poor countries. The market
    is a tremendous engine of economic growth, but it also has accompanying evils
    of cruelty to some and now increasing inequality. \r\n\r\nIncreasing social inequality
    in the US is a grave problem that is hurting the US in many ways. It should be
    dealt with by government action, both re-distribution by taxing the wealthy, and
    by programs that help all in the areas of in education and health, and especially
    help the poor. \r\n\r\nThere is also a serious problem of the undermining of the
    rule of law by the lack of reasonable immigration laws, properly enforced. But
    that is another story.  "
  created: '2007-11-18 02:05:32'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: "Roland,\r\n\r\nIndigenous communities and those who work with them deal with
    a frustrating typographic issue: having few (sometimes no) fonts in which to properly
    represent indigenous language orthographies.  This is roughly the problem Victor
    Gaultney sought to address in developing Gentium.  If you want to design a font
    to benefit mankind, you might consider supporting some less-common languages.
    \ If it's too much to provide, say, all the Latinate characters in the Unicode
    standard (plus the combining diacritics, properly supported by each base glyph),
    you could pick a region of the world and support that (for example, support all
    the characters used in Pacific Northwest languages).  Or, support one or more
    non-Latin scripts.  Whichever languages you choose to support, do your potential
    linguist customers a favor and support the International Phonetic Alphabet so
    that we can publish papers and books using your font."
  created: '2007-11-18 09:28:48'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "William, from all I've read about Dobbs and from watching his broadcasts
    on CNN, his main concerns with communist China are about fair freer trade, about
    that trade being balanced trade and of course outsourcing. And his views (from
    what I know of the man) are global and not protectionist and he views America's
    trade deficit with communist China as unacceptable. Look how long it took for
    China to adjust even a small percentage of it's currency. And as for China becoming
    the world's largest polluter (passing the USA earlier this year), and China military
    sales and development, I think are also a great concern to Dobbs but those issues
    only enforce the impact of the trade practices of China, and also to a certain
    extent the other \"cheap foreign\" markets too highlight this trade imbalance/outsourcing
    issue. So I find you using Dobbs as your \"ignorance USA\" poster boy, offensive.\r\n\r\nI'm
    a product of the Frank Lloyd Wright school of architecture and I own several small
    companies. In my greater family, we own a chain of retails stores that has over
    one hundred locations. The majority of products sold through that chain come from
    China and from other cheap foreign labour markets. On the other side of the coin
    is one of my favorite companies, my plastics company. It manufactures mostly acrylic
    products for Canada's retail sector (I started this company in first year uni!).
    Just last spring it lost a national contract to China. So William I am well aquainted
    with both sides of China in the global market place, and the global market place
    in general. And I favour balanced freer global trade.\r\n\r\nIf you have a problem
    with Lou Dobbs and his brand of journalism, I suggest you send him an email and
    have a chat with the man. That's the intelligent and enlightened way to deal with
    your Dobbsian 'issues'.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-20 05:23:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Neil, you don't respond to any of the arguments against Dobb's views that
    I gave or linked to. These are specifically against his arguments on job loss
    in the US and the evils of the trade deficit. \r\n\r\nAs to his not being a protectionist.
    He doesn't like to be called that, but he never met a trade agreement he likes,
    and never has mentioned lowering any tariffs as a good idea. So he is one, even
    though he likes to call it 'balanced' trade. \r\n\r\nI am sorry your firm lost
    a contract to China, but that is competition. It is brutal and heartless, but
    benefits the customer. Many firms, as is shown in the link I gave, have figured
    out how to beat the low cost Chinese labor market by improved productivity using
    technology. As I said competition also leads to social inequality, which must
    be addressed by government action more than we have done in the US. \r\n\r\nOne
    of the things I think is the social responsibility of all citizens is not to be
    taken in by sloganeering, and to try to think critically about social issues.
    That I what I have tried to do on the issue of globalization.\r\n\r\nIt is pointless
    going further you if you won't respond to arguments, but just repeat your views.
    \r\n\r\nHowever, I would like to point out that no prominent academic economist
    I know of supports Dobbs's views. Thomas Friedman, of the New York Times, has
    talked extensively to people in China and India and the US about this issue, and
    has written two books on globalization. He is not given to non-stop insults, like
    Dobbs is, but he did let slip in a talk that he regards Dobbs as as a [[http://blog.nam.org/archives/2006/02/tom_friedman_on.php|\"blithering
    idiot\"]] on these issues. I really think the fact that the people who study these
    issues most seriously dismiss Dobbs's views should give you pause. \r\n\r\nAfter
    Thanksgiving, I will post something on a real story of globalization: type design.
    I think it illustrates how, contrary to Dobbs, the 'global village' really is
    overall a wonderfully positive and productive development. Oh and Typophile is
    an important part of that story. "
  created: '2007-11-20 15:48:59'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"But young parents also have the choice to live within walking distance
    of their children\u2019s school\"\r\n\r\nGoing WAY OT here, but that's definitely
    not true in a lot of cases.\r\n\r\nIn many parts of the US (all?) schools are
    financed locally. As such, the well financed schools tend to be in high-class/high-priced
    neighborhoods and the poorly financed schools tend to be in (obviously) low-class/low-priced
    neighborhoods.\r\n\r\nFor areas with school choice, this problem gets nasty. What
    happens is that parents that have the ability to send their children elsewhere,
    do, and those that don't, don't. So what happens is that the schools become increasingly
    segregated on a socio-ecnomic level. Which becomes a vicious cycle.\r\n\r\nIn
    the end, a parent that wants the best education for their child will send them
    to the best school. The catch is that the best school is likely in a neighborhood
    that the family can't imagine affording to live in.\r\n\r\nOK, BACK TO TYPE!"
  created: '2007-11-20 15:49:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>that\u2019s definitely not true in a lot of cases.</em>\r\n\r\nAs I said,
    it's a question of priorities.\r\nChoosing to drive/bus your child to a \"better\"
    school further away indicates that enabling him/her to walk or bicycle to school
    is not your most important priority."
  created: '2007-11-20 17:36:58'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Choosing to drive/bus your child to a \u201Cbetter\u201D school further
    away indicates that enabling him/her to walk or bicycle to school is not your
    most important priority.\"\r\n\r\nAlas 'enabling him/her' tends to be less about
    individual family priorities and more about the society at large."
  created: '2007-11-20 17:49:37'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Here\u2019s a different notion of responsibility: are we responsible for
    understanding our audiences? Should designers be reading <em>Oprah Magazine</em>
    and watching <em>CSI</em> to understand the visual culture that tens of millions
    of people take in every day? "
  created: '2007-11-20 17:53:33'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Good question James. I'd say a designer should absolutely understand the
    audience they are designing for. \r\n\r\nDoes a type designer? Maybe. Though,
    again, a lot of their work is sent to the audience via proxy of the graphic designer."
  created: '2007-11-20 18:51:43'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026a lot of their work is sent to the audience via proxy of the
    graphic designer\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nSomething I often wonder about is how much
    of our font associations come from design and how much come from use. Mistral,
    for example, can mean very different things to straight men than to other people
    because it\u2019s extremely popular with designers of hard-core pornography. Papyrus
    may have been intended to evoke something in particular at one time, but now has
    become ubiquitous and stands for cheap design. \r\n\r\nBut I digress\u2026"
  created: '2007-11-20 19:09:11'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Mistral, for example, can mean very different things to straight men than
    to other people because it\u2019s extremely popular with designers of hard-core
    pornography.\"\r\n\r\nIt is!?\r\n\r\n*THAT* should be the OP's thesis project!"
  created: '2007-11-20 20:46:07'
- author:
    name: Rolandillo
    picture: 110823
  body: "Aric:\r\nNice input! Right \u2013 I think this is an interesting direction.
    Thanks!\r\n\r\nAluminum and James:\r\nthanks guys to bring this back to the topic!\r\n\r\nWilliam
    and Hiroshige:\r\ntry skype :-)"
  created: '2007-11-20 20:51:55'
date: '2007-11-12 23:45:00'
title: Type and social responsibility

---
