---
author:
  name: amv
body: "I'm nearing completion of the first weight of my font, and for the sake of
  the exercise, I want to get the font as close as possible to a condition in which
  it could be sold.\r\n\r\nSo far, the work I've done can be broken up into:\r\n\r\n1)
  Creation of glyphs; arrangement in FontLab\r\n2) Metrics/kerning\r\n3) OpenType
  features (just ligatures in my case)\r\n4) Setting font info/name\r\n5) Output to
  .otf file\r\n\r\nThose are of course the basic steps, but I'm sure there are a lot
  more details that need to be taken into account before a font is really \"ready\"
  for mass consumption."
comments:
- author:
    name: lapiak
    picture: 111789
  body: I'm in the same situation right now too, and that checklist is exactly what
    I'm following. The one thing I can't figure out yet, is accessing the OpenType
    features. I'm not sure if I'm supposed to create a glyph to represent, say, a
    small cap character, or if there's a way to actually load this.
  created: '2007-11-15 00:16:58'
- author:
    name: Artur Schmal
    picture: 110750
  body: "If you really want to prepare a font that is ready for 'mass' consumption
    it would be useful to add these steps to your list:\r\n\r\n6) Test the otf file
    in at least the major apps and OS's.\r\n7) If any errors then correct them and
    output to otf file again.\r\n8) Repeat step 6 and 7 until free of errors."
  created: '2007-11-15 18:53:03'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: "--if it's a text family, be sure to add oldstyle figures to each font\r\n--be
    sure your text family offers at least two weights, with italics for each\r\n--be
    SURE each font is keystroke-linked to the others, or at least, that each roman
    is keystroke-linked to its matching italic. If you have more than one bold weight,
    I would advocate linking the base weight roman to the full bold, skipping the
    semibold. But it depends on what you're doing.\r\n\r\nPLEASE do not emulate the
    bad habits of so many small boutique foundries: don't release text families with
    only one weight, add OSFs in OT, and keystroke-link your fonts like the big foundries
    do. And keep your prices modest ($12.50 per font or four fonts for $50) so freelancers,
    who are the real taste-makers, can afford to buy your fonts on their own. Do all
    this, and your customers will be happy and loyal."
  created: '2008-03-15 03:30:10'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "MondoB, I'm with you on the importance of a full complement of weights, etc.,
    for text faces.\r\n\r\nBut freelancers as taste-makers? Individual circumstances
    vary, but in the magazine design world at least, freelancers are generally working
    in an established style, not blazing a new trail."
  created: '2008-03-15 06:54:22'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>And keep your prices modest ($12.50 per font or four fonts for $50)</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    is a laugh riot."
  created: '2008-03-15 19:23:39'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: I'm all for cheap fonts, but I'm not going to demean those who have invested
    years of their lives into fighting points and contours by insisting they give
    away their work at bargain basement prices.
  created: '2008-03-15 21:49:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...so freelancers, who are the real taste-makers, can afford to buy your
    fonts on their own.\"\r\n\r\nBut what about the type designers who also have to
    afford their rent? They could make more money per hour working at McDonalds than
    they could giving their type away for $12.50 per weight! You want us to include
    everything \"like the big foundries do\" but work for peanuts. I'll tell you what,
    instead, bill your client at your usual rate but just pay yourself 3 bucks an
    hour and with the money you saved, buy some type at a fair price? Sounds good,
    huh?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-15 23:28:46'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Alex, a few other things to put on your release checklist:\r\n\r\n* Character
    set / code page integrity. Are you making the defacto standard Western 1252 character
    set, or something with more extensive language support? Whichever, make sure your
    code page complies the Unicode industry standard.\r\n\r\n* Decompose all composite
    glyphs before generating font files and remove overlap from glyphs needing it,
    such as Ccedilla and things with ogoneks. There is no practical reason for shipping
    fonts containing composite glyphs, as they save only a few kilobytes and add nothing
    to the value of your font.\r\n\r\n* Do all glyphs have a Unicode number assigned
    to them? If not, they may not survive cutting and pasting between applications.\r\n\r\n*
    Does your font contain .notdef, .null and CR cells? All three are mandatory, especially
    the .notdef cell, which needs a blank rectangle in it so that users know what
    the deal is when an undefined character is called by the material they're setting.\r\n\r\n*
    Are we making TrueType and/or Type 1 versions of the font? Presently not many
    font makers bother with Type 1. I still include TrueType versions of my fonts
    in the standard ZIP package as a courtesy to Mac users still using OS9.xx, but
    I'm starting to wonder if it's worth the extra time and logistic hassle.\r\n\r\n*
    Promotional material. Whatever your means of distribution, you'll probably need
    to make type samples to show potential buyers how the font(s) look in use. I only
    have experience with Myfonts. For a Myfonts release you need a 200 x 200 pixel
    font flag, ideally something showing the font(s) used in a very attractive way.
    Depending on the font, a strong font flag can mean the difference between selling
    a few copies and making no sales.\r\n\r\n* Promotional written copy. Regardless
    of your distribution method, it's helpful to write something about your font(s)
    for customers who want to read something about it (not all customers do). Promotional
    copy can be (1)&nbsp;a simple description of the font and its characteristics,
    (2)&nbsp;a detailed description, (3)&nbsp;a description laced with positive and
    persuasive statements. Be careful with number 3, because it's easy to overdo it
    and end up with promotional copy that dazzles too much and puts customers off.
    Also avoid writing very long blurbs unless you are Frantisek Storm and have lots
    of interesting things to talk about.\r\n\r\n<em>PLEASE do not emulate the bad
    habits of so many small boutique foundries: don\u2019t release text families with
    only one weight, add OSFs in OT, and keystroke-link your fonts like the big foundries
    do.</em>\r\n\r\nHow many and which indie font makers release families with only
    one weight? With only one weight or variant a font cannot be called a family,
    by definition.\r\n\r\n$10 --- $12.50 per font is an impractical price becaws after
    the costs involved in distribution and promotion are taken into account you'd
    be left with a paltry $5 --- $8 total revenue from each font, and those figures
    are based on the lowest margins charged by the most generous distributors in the
    biz. That amount would be reduced further by discounting. Font discounting is
    one of the main means of generating interest in a font as it makes your brand
    visible to the market.\r\n\r\nLet's not turn this into an arse kicking thread
    guys. Give Mondo a break.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-03-16 01:44:53'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "One more thing; come up with a list of key words, or \"technorati tags\"
    as they're being called now. Some search engines will pick up key words from your
    blurb (if it contains them), and some search engines only pick up key words from
    a list labelled \"key words\" or \"technorati tags\". One marketing trick you
    can use at Myfonts is to submit as many key words as they'll let you use. This
    helps make your font visible in a crowded marketplace.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-03-16 02:13:44'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: "I understand type designers going red in the face over price issues, but
    if you're in it for the long haul, you will emulate the example of Storm Foundry,
    most of whose type-one text families (always keystroke-linked) still cost $55-$65
    (going to OpenType lets them charge more). They have benefited from their price
    moderation; their historically literate faces were not that easy to market at
    first. In my personal shopping list, the moderate prices get the action: Quaestor
    ($50 for 4 fonts), Envoy ($50 for 5 fonts), Atlantica ($5 per font in OT bundle),
    Dutch Medieval Pro ($13.99 per font in OT bundle), Rebecca Samuels ($15 per font),
    and Leitura ($20 per font in OT bundle). By contrast, Constantia at $35 per font
    is not different enough to be worth the higher price. For Zingha I paid $40 per
    font because there's nothing like it, but I was rewarded by, once again, getting
    no keystroke links between fonts, so now I'm doubly shy about buying from that
    foundry. It's a crowded field, and price moderation coupled with user conveniences
    will pay off in the long term.\r\n\r\nAs for completing text-type families, the
    obvious examples of one weight are FF Clifford and H-FJ Requiem (their only variance
    is optical weight or text vs display). More often, we are frustrated because the
    family has bold but no bold italic--tons of examples there! We need to keep emphasizing
    the importance of industry-wide standards for these failings, because the main
    perps are the cool small boutique operators who can't be bothered offering the
    same user conveniences the big boys always offer. These are not small issues. "
  created: '2008-03-16 13:41:25'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: MondoB, I have read at least 6 posts from you where you keep fixating on the
    same issues. You have made your point. How many fonts have you made where you
    know these issues to be undeniable facts? You keep stating that boutique foundries
    are too cool to accommodate your demands. There are many issues that go into making,
    releasing and marketing fonts. What do you charge per hour for your design services?
  created: '2008-03-16 15:12:26'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: "Evangelizing requires repetition, as Josef Goebbels said many times!\r\n\r\nGood
    books also require a lot of effort over a long time span, yet few hardbacks sell
    for more than $40 and the average paperback on amazon.com goes for about $10. "
  created: '2008-03-16 15:52:37'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "I believe what Goebbles said (and as adapted by Karl Rove) was  \u201CRepeat
    a lie often enough and the people will believe it!\u201D \r\n\r\n<em>Good books
    also require a lot of effort over a long time span, yet few hardbacks sell for
    more than $40 and the average paperback on amazon.com goes for about $10.</em>\r\nThis
    does seem to be true, but not sure how this relates to the topic at hand?"
  created: '2008-03-16 16:58:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mondo,\r\nYou have to understand market size and market potential as well.
    Books have a far greater potential market than typefaces. Even books vary all
    over the place in market potential. The cheap $10 books you speak of have a far
    greater market than textbooks on Microbiology. I am a big purchaser on Amazon
    and most of my books are typography related. They average over $50 per book because
    the market for specialized books is small. Typography freaks are not rich but
    they love books so we are willing to pay for them. The old axiom of volume of
    sales increases as price declines has a very big limit. Once you saturate the
    market, there is nobody else to buy the product no matter how cheap it is. If
    there were books available on french braiding men's hair for $2, I would never
    buy it because I am not interested (and am bald). I paid $75 for a book on Cyrillic
    type design that was only in Russian and I don't speak a word of Russian because
    I still felt I could get something out of the visuals. The publisher is not planning
    an English version because he feels the market is too small to cover the cost
    of production. I would love it if he would produce the book anyway and sell it
    for ten bucks but it would be very self-centered of me to insist that he do so
    and loose thousands of dollars just to make me happy.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS:
    I don't find anything said by the likes of Josef Goebbels as something I would
    care to follow."
  created: '2008-03-16 17:23:28'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>What do you charge per hour for your design services?</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    think this needs to be answered for this thread to move forward in any meaningful
    manner. Otherwise it is just another bit of typophile nonsense."
  created: '2008-03-16 21:01:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Mondo, why do you think it makes sense that boutique foundries should follow
    the practice of the big box companies in content provision, but not in price?\r\n\r\nThere
    is a strong argument for providing products in a greater range of prices, but
    it is not to be made by demeaning the \"bad  habits of so many small boutique
    foundries\". In fact, while the big box boys have gone with giving fonts away
    (aka \"bundling\") and ho-hum pricing, independent foundries have led the way
    with a great variety of innovative packaging, formatting, encoding, pricing and
    licensing ideas.\r\n\r\nThere is a very good reason why typefaces may be released
    without a Bold Italic: Bold Italic is the least used of styles, and it's a bitch
    to draw. So sure, a foundry may lose sales to those who like to have lots of features
    they rarely, if ever, require, but on the other hand, it's gained a production
    efficiency. And that's its prerogative.\r\n\r\nBTW, the four-style \"nuclear family\"
    standard created at the birth of DTP by, AFAIK, Microsoft, has been a disaster
    for the typographic industry.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-16 23:35:31'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: 'The hell with all italics. They get used only 20% of the time and they take
    twice as long to draw. '
  created: '2008-03-17 02:57:37'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "In designing fonts, italics would be much easier to deal with if FontLab
    (or whatever) allowed slanted sidebearings. I understand that this is not part
    of any font format, but we have many design aids in font editors that are not
    part of any font format (guidelines, background images and layers, etc.). Rather,
    these would be fictional structures that would simplify design and spacing of
    slanted fonts. As part of this, vertical movements could be constrained to the
    slant angle.\r\n\r\nJust an idea."
  created: '2008-03-17 03:46:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "A good idea too, Mark.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-17 03:50:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Right on, Mark.
  created: '2008-03-17 04:50:09'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Mondo, \r\n\r\nI'm obviously not the only one growing annoyed by your repeated
    quackings about bold italic, style linking, industry standards, and font prices.
    I think you should do two things before you raise these complaints again:\r\n\r\n1:
    Retrain yourself to consider the cost of fonts as expenses of your design business.
    There is no need to argue about how your clients won't pay for them. There are
    dozens of ways you can account for expenses in your business when tax time rolls
    around. It's really just a simple accounting matter.  Fonts are legitimate tools
    for design just like layout software, proofing, printing and internet service.\r\n\r\n2:
    Develop a workhorse, 4-style text family of your own original design, with oldstyle
    figures and small caps in every style, style-linked (the correct term) and available
    in OpenType format with adequate features to access all the special glyphs. Negotiate
    a distribution deal that somehow nets you adequate compensation at the prices
    you name. Then personally answer all tech support calls and messages you get from
    your customers. \r\n\r\nThen maybe we can have a meaningful conversation about
    the cost of fonts. You clearly have no idea what it is you are asking of type
    designers by requesting professional-quality fonts at such absurdly low prices. "
  created: '2008-03-17 06:36:51'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "How is it that a thread titled \"Font Release Checklist\" turns into a tiresome
    debate (if this argument can be called a debate) about font prices and the standards
    of indie type makers versus \"the big boys\"?\r\n\r\n* MondoB ignored the thread
    topic and started airing his personal agenda instead of starting a new thread
    on the topic(s) of interest to him\r\n\r\n* Typophile's moderators apparently
    did nothing to discourage this, made no attempt to step in and moderate the situation
    before it escalated.\r\n\r\nThankyou to all contributors who showed restraint
    and kept things civil after I requested it. There is a difference between making
    a critical response in a civil manner and using snarky language to express the
    same or similar criticisms, and this thread proves how capable most Typophile
    members are of civil conduct.\r\n\r\nMondoB---please recognize the difference
    between your personal agenda and the real topic of this thread. They are two quite
    different things, and the normal routine at Typophile is to discuss two different
    topics separately on separate threads. Please do not hijack threads as you have
    done in this instance. This thread was a request for tips on releasing a font.
    If you wish to debate font prices and industry practices please start a new thread
    dedicated to that topic. Don't argue with me as I will not be returning to this
    thread.\r\n\r\nModerators---with all due respect, could you folks please be more
    active in future by stepping in and moderating when the situation requires it?
    <strong>Trust everyone, but cut the cards.</strong> It's your job to watch what
    happens on these boards, and when a thread starts to run off the rails, do something
    about it. A moderator should have cut the cards immediately after MondoB made
    his first post. The very absence of intervention by any moderator---your inaction---is
    what made me call for calm to begin with, and the reason for this post.\r\n\r\nOnce
    again, thanks everyone for keeping your cool. Have a better one tomorrow.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-03-17 10:10:41'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Hi James,\r\n\r\nI'm one of Typophile's Moderators. I have read this thread
    with interest, but it never occurred to me that it should be moderated. In fact,
    even after reading your post, I still wouldn't moderate it.\r\n\r\nOur function
    as moderators is not to steer discussion. We are not emcees or forum leaders.
    We monitor Typophile threads for inappropriate content, and take action where
    necessary. We also try to encourage the best content where we can, by putting
    things on the front page, or on the wiki, etc.\r\n\r\nMondoB has a very strong
    point of view that I personally may or may not agree with. But he is not attacking
    anyone personally, writing libellous text, linking to stolen fonts or software,
    or encouraging anything bad. He just wants people to make fonts the way he wishes
    that they would.\r\n\r\nI think that there has been enough counter-reaction from
    other forum members (i.e., Richard, Nick, Chris, etc.). Why should we go in and
    cut out parts of his posts, or close the thread? That sounds too much like censorship
    to me. MondoB has a right to post what he would like, as long as it falls within
    Typophile's <a href=\"http://typophile.com/readme\">guidelines</a>. This is also
    a right shared by you, and everyone else here.\r\n\r\nNote, of course, that in
    Typophile's guidelines, we ask vistors not to hijack other peoples' threads. While
    MondoB has been rather insistent in arguing his point of view, I wouldn't say
    that he has hijacked the thread. His points do have to do with how fonts are released.
    For me it is enough on topic. This is my subjective point of view, and I'm sure
    that all the other moderators have their own subjective points of view as well.
    I will not presume to know what these are. However, I'm sure that most of the
    other moderators have read this thread as well, and as you write, they didn't
    take any action either. \r\n\r\nWe discuss when to intervene regularly, and it
    seems to me that this is clearly a case of when we wouldn't do that. Thank you
    for raising the topic, though."
  created: '2008-03-17 10:28:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Off-Topic:\r\n\r\nWhile I disagree with MondoB on many things, I don't think
    his comments were beyond the scope of this thread in subject matter. I don't think
    he was hijacking the thread, I just think differently  than he does on the subject.
    I prefer that moderators error on the side of acting less than acting more and
    only deal with truly abusive behavior. While I may not care for Mondo's agenda
    or methods, he does not appear to have crossed the boundary and become abusive.
    Censorship is a dangerous thing and should be avoided. I think the moderators
    have acted properly and with the right degree of restraint.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-17 14:56:19'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Ikarus M had the ability to do slanted side bearings as Mark describes. It
    was a helpful feature.
  created: '2008-03-17 15:25:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Mark or James, have you discussed the slanted side bearings idea with Yuri
    or Adam at FontLab? It sounds good to me!
  created: '2008-03-17 15:30:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "James, Did the Ikarus constrain angle when mirroring and rotating to maintain
    the position relative to the axis of the italic slant? In other words, did it
    treat the chosen italic angle as zero degrees?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-17 15:32:50'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I may have mentioned the idea in another thread (or maybe I imagined that
    I did), but I haven't brought it up with Yuri. I know he is out there lurking,
    though. \r\n\r\nA further thought on this would be that the entire coordinate
    space would be slanted (which is implied by the idea of vertical movements being
    constrained to the slant angle).\r\n\r\n(Sorry for hijacking this thread, if anyone
    cares.)"
  created: '2008-03-17 15:43:10'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "ChrisL,\r\n\r\nI don't remember it doing any of that. It was just a value
    that you could enter to slant the side bearings to correspond to the angle of
    the glyph. It did not treat the italic angle as zero degrees.\r\n\r\nIkarus M
    had two other helpful features, and Italic Balance command that was applied to
    a glyph before it was slanted. This reapportioned the weigh of curves and was
    helpful in reducing that slanted look if the italic angle was large. It also had
    a symmetry tool that allowed you to pick one of four quadrants of a shape and
    apply the details of that quadrant to the other three. A very helpful tool."
  created: '2008-03-17 17:22:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sweet! Thanks, James!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-17 17:27:51'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: ">>>Returning to the font release checklist>>>\r\n<ol>\r\n<li>For a newbie
    type designer is it better to release a simple font with a simple character set,
    or to pull a Thomas Phinney?\r\n\r\nWhat should be the bare minimum to allow for
    release? For instance, I have almost completed my first complete typeface with
    the full ISO Western whatever character set, plus some added ligs, etc., but it's
    no where near as ambitious as Arno Pro. </li>\r\n\r\n<li>\r\nAn added thing to
    the checklist that seems to go missing quite frequently is checking and testing
    vertical metrics. This seems to be a bug-a-boo, since there doesn't seem to be
    a single standard to work with.\r\n\r\nAny thoughts on this?</li></ol>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-19 01:14:07'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I would never recommend a novice do what I did and go to such insane lengths
    in language coverage and typographic features. Glyph creep is insidious. Set out
    some maximums early on in the project. \"Absolutely no more than 999 glyphs\"
    would be a good rule. 500 glyphs might be a more sensible limit.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-03-19 07:07:24'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "What goes into a font to prepare it for release? I feel this is an important
    question that hasn't been completely answered. I've attempted to extract what
    has been said so far, since the thread got cluttered with arguments over pricing
    and the value of bold italics and was since abandoned.\r\n\r\n\r\namv began with:\r\n1)
    Creation of glyphs; arrangement in FontLab\r\n2) Metrics/kerning\r\n3) OpenType
    features (just ligatures in my case)\r\n4) Setting font info/name\r\n5) Output
    to .otf file\r\n\r\n\r\nArtur Schmal added:\r\n6) Test the otf file in at least
    the major apps and OS's.\r\n7) If any errors then correct them and output to otf
    file again.\r\n8) Repeat step 6 and 7 until free of errors.\r\n\r\n\r\nJames Arboghast
    proposed these considerations:\r\n* Character set / code page integrity. Are you
    making the defacto standard Western 1252 character set, or something with more
    extensive language support? Whichever, make sure your code page complies the Unicode
    industry standard.\r\n\r\n* Decompose all composite glyphs before generating font
    files and remove overlap from glyphs needing it, such as Ccedilla and things with
    ogoneks. There is no practical reason for shipping fonts containing composite
    glyphs, as they save only a few kilobytes and add nothing to the value of your
    font.\r\n\r\n* Do all glyphs have a Unicode number assigned to them? If not, they
    may not survive cutting and pasting between applications.\r\n\r\n* Does your font
    contain .notdef, .null and CR cells? All three are mandatory, especially the .notdef
    cell, which needs a blank rectangle in it so that users know what the deal is
    when an undefined character is called by the material they're setting.\r\n\r\n*
    Are we making TrueType and/or Type 1 versions of the font? Presently not many
    font makers bother with Type 1. I still include TrueType versions of my fonts
    in the standard ZIP package as a courtesy to Mac users still using OS9.xx, but
    I'm starting to wonder if it's worth the extra time and logistic hassle.\r\n\r\n*
    Promotional material. Whatever your means of distribution, you'll probably need
    to make type samples to show potential buyers how the font(s) look in use. I only
    have experience with Myfonts. For a Myfonts release you need a 200 x 200 pixel
    font flag, ideally something showing the font(s) used in a very attractive way.
    Depending on the font, a strong font flag can mean the difference between selling
    a few copies and making no sales.\r\n\r\n* Promotional written copy. Regardless
    of your distribution method, it's helpful to write something about your font(s)
    for customers who want to read something about it (not all customers do). Promotional
    copy can be (1) a simple description of the font and its characteristics, (2)
    a detailed description, (3) a description laced with positive and persuasive statements.
    Be careful with number 3, because it's easy to overdo it and end up with promotional
    copy that dazzles too much and puts customers off. Also avoid writing very long
    blurbs unless you are Frantisek Storm and have lots of interesting things to talk
    about.\r\n\r\nFollowed by Dan Gayle's reminder to check vertical metrics and Thomas
    Phinney's admonition to avoid glyph creep beyond 999 glyphs.\r\n\r\n\r\nSurely
    there is more to add, and the sequence can be cleaned up. This could become a
    valuable tool.\r\n--\r\n\r\n\r\n@Mark Simonson: FontForge has a slanted sidebearing
    feature, set by the \"italic angle\" setting. I don't want to get into that too
    much here, but check it out and see if it's similar to what you'd like to see
    in FontLab."
  created: '2011-05-01 22:56:22'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Glyph creep isn't \"bad\" so much as time-consuming.\r\n\r\nIn general, if
    generating OpenType PS, one should at least try using subroutines to reduce file
    size. That can often reduce file size dramatically. However, FontLab can fall
    over if the font is really huge and complex, in which case you need to try it
    without.  :/\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-05-02 16:03:33'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Re: slanted sidebearings...\r\n\r\nOften, I've found that backslanting italics
    so that they're upright, adjusting sidebearings, then re-slanting glyphs handles
    the problem pretty effective...not in all cases, but in most."
  created: '2011-05-02 20:28:06'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Two other notes for the checklist are to check contour direction and location
    of start points, though I'm not clear why the latter is important (something to
    do with hinting perhaps, which should also appear on the checklist \u2014 alignment
    zones and stem widths at least).\r\n\r\nAlso, to keep us up-to-date, shouldn't
    the process also include generating webfont format files?"
  created: '2011-05-02 22:04:01'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "- figure out what kind of use your license should include and/or exclude\r\n\r\nIf
    you're releasing a webfont:\r\n- figure out if (and how) you are going to support
    your OT features\r\n- determine intended size\r\n- hinting\r\n- testing\r\n- more
    hinting"
  created: '2011-05-02 23:21:13'
- author:
    name: BeauW
    picture: 116201
  body: "@ Bendy:  \"location of start points\"\r\nI would be curious about this too-
    but also, can you tell me where the start points are ideally located?"
  created: '2011-05-13 16:58:02'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Hah, no, I'm afraid I can't. But I'm sure I read somewhere that it should
    be purposeful. Sorry!
  created: '2011-05-16 00:11:41'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Let's see if bumping this up another year later helps at all. \r\nWhat boxes
    need to be checked; form fields filled, and with what, without which a font might
    not work correctly?"
  created: '2012-08-27 04:19:32'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "Yes, I think bumping this IS a good idea.\r\n\r\nA key checkpoint topic I
    haven't seen addressed here is insuring that fonts can work equally well across
    multiple operating system platforms and, within reason, multiple applications.\r\n\r\nJust
    about all new fonts today are produced as OpenType and/or Windows Truetype. However,
    there are internal factors that can thwart transparency. \r\n\r\nIn particular,
    there are numbers of foundries that have produced font families whose internal
    font and style names and flags make them unworkable in a Windows environment,
    although they work perfectly on Macs.\r\n\r\nBoth Thomas Phinney and Adam Twardoch
    have produced documents that describe methods to make such families work equally
    well on both platforms. These documents should be studied and followed by anyone
    creating a family that consists of more than the four bais Microsoft styles.\r\n\r\nAnother
    compatibility obstruction is fonts whose glyphs are not completely unicoded. In
    a Windows/Microsoft Office environment ( prior to Office 2010 and prior to Windows
    8, but I don't know about these and any later versions), such glyphs cannot be
    accessed at all. Windows' Character Map function doesn't see non-unicoded glyphs.\r\n\r\nI
    have also just been made aware of certain Open Type fonts that are acceptable
    to MacOS but give a \"not a valid font\" error message when opened in Windows
    (any version). This may even be intentional on the part of the font designer(s).
    I have no further information at this point.\r\n\r\n  - Herb"
  created: '2012-08-29 02:51:29'
- author:
    name: rosaiani
    picture: 109721
  body: "Here's advice I might give fom what I've learned from releasing my two existing
    commercial typefaces so far.\r\n\r\nIf you have a text face\r\n- Hold on and wait
    to complete at least regular italic bold. In certain distributors this can make
    a huge difference as you may have only one shot at making it known (MyFonts hot
    new fota features is pretty good for that). Why I say that? Because I released
    a single weight typeface in 2008 just to know If anyone would buy it. I offered
    it at 5 bucks. People bought it and I was happy but learned that it'd had been
    better If I'd waited and maybe charged more.\r\n\r\nThat said, releasing that
    single weight gave me a thrill that thrust me into wanting to do more, so maybe
    it's just what you need as well.\r\n\r\nDon't be scared of charging in the same
    range as the competitors. Work instead on making so that your type deserves that
    price point. Make it support more languages, give it OT features. If you use glyphsapp
    that's too simple not to do.\r\n\r\nLook at it as an app: it can improve over
    time. As a first release, chances are you'll make mistakes. The good news is you
    can fix them and your users will be able to upgrade it later at no extra cost.
    And you can add things, like that cool otf feature you just learned on a typophile
    thread.\r\n\r\nYou'll learn so much by simply realeasing whatever best you got
    now, that my last suggestion might be incongruent with my first: just do it :)\r\nBest\r\nRodrigo"
  created: '2012-08-29 05:12:25'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<blockquote>Another compatibility obstruction is fonts whose glyphs are not
    completely unicoded. </blockquote>\r\n\r\nAdobe has recommended for a while against
    encoding glyphs that are variants of standard Unicode characters. These would
    be characters that don't have standard unicode mappings (such as small caps or
    swash characters). You <em>may</em> give them codes from the PUA (Private Use
    Area), but by definition there can be no standards for such encodings, so there
    is no way to predict what will happen if the font is changed for some reason.
    Instead, character variants should be accessed via OpenType features.\r\n\r\nWhile
    you don't <em>have</em> to follow this recommendation, it is a valid way to make
    a font."
  children:
  - author:
      name: HVB
      picture: 111370
    body: "Mark - You're right of course. And what that means is that developers have
      to decide between two incompatible options - either provide for cross-font compatibility
      or allow all of their font's features to be used, albeit in a sub-optimum typographic
      environment. \r\n\r\nThe ideal solution would be if Microsoft included in its
      OS an updated equivalent to today's CharMap that would allow access to non-unicoded
      glyphs. Or if their Office products were fully open-type aware.\r\n\r\n - Herb"
    created: '2012-08-29 16:51:11'
  created: '2012-08-29 15:08:20'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Adobe originally did encode all glyphs. Besides ideological impurity and
    cross-font incompatibilities, the main reason for abandoning that approach was
    that hardly anybody ever accessed those special glyphs via Unicode, which was
    the only reason for doing it in the first place. So for newer fonts they stopped
    doing that. Yours is the first complaint I have seen, as far as I recall.\r\n\r\n\u201C
    The ideal solution would be if Microsoft included in its OS an updated equivalent
    to today's CharMap that would allow access to non-unicoded glyphs.\u201D\r\n\r\nThey
    could do it, but the glyphs could not be made to show up in existing non-OpenType-savvy
    apps, so that would not help much."
  created: '2012-09-06 22:09:51'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "Tom - there have been a number of people in other fora saying that they've
    bought an OT font based on the available glyphs, and then asking how to access
    them? It usually turns out that they're using MSWord. Now that number IS small,
    so from a cost-benefit standpoint, I understand both MS's and Adobe's approach.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not down-in-the-details tech savvy enough anymore to understand why a non-unicoded
    glyph copied from a charmap-type application couldn't be seen by an Open-Type
    blind application ... OH - after typing that, I realized that the app needs a
    way to point to the glyph.   Oh well. \r\n\r\nThanks for straightening me out!\r\n\r\n-
    Herb"
  created: '2012-09-06 22:23:04'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Note that Word 2010/2011 does support some OpenType typography features, at
    long last. So at least some of the goodies can be accessed in Word these days.
  created: '2012-10-03 00:52:06'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: Don't forget good keywords.
  created: '2012-10-16 16:32:33'
- author:
    name: austiebost
    picture: 125940
  body: This post, including all of its variances and meanderings, was EXACTLY what
    I needed!  Thanks SO MUCH.
  created: '2012-11-15 02:16:29'
date: '2007-11-14 19:56:25'
title: Font Release Checklist?

---
