---
author:
  name: afonseca1974
  picture: 113276
body: "dear typophiles!\r\n\r\nI've been work over the last weeks on my typeface.
  Although not finished I decided to post the Caps in order to get some feedback.\r\nIts
  based on a \"old style\" letters I found on an old Portuguese typographic book.\r\nAny
  comments or suggestions are, as always, highly appreciated.\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "hmm...no image again!. Let me try one more time.\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tipo_4871.jpg]"
  created: '2007-11-19 00:41:15'
- author:
    name: j_p_giese
    picture: 110076
  body: "Hi Ant\xF3nio.\r\n\r\nMy very first impressions:\r\n\r\nJ looks cut off by
    the baseline.\r\nK, F, T, Z have very sharp points (might be a problem under not
    so good printing conditions?).\r\nI find that some characters (e. g. K, H, Y)
    are heavier than others (i. g. C, G, X).\r\nFor example, stems of H are quite
    bold (H looks heavy next to some other characters \u2013 maybe make the right
    stem a bit lighter?).\r\nThere are sort of funny angles in W.\r\nRight serif in
    U is almost a slab serif (for balance reasons?).\r\nIn my eyes, some serifs seem
    to make for slightly clumsy feet (like in P, Y) and stand in contrast to the strong
    overall stroke width modulation.\r\n\r\nPlease understand that this is not a balanced
    critique (I focussed on what I considered possible problem zones) and that not
    everything that struck my eye is necessarily a bad thing. I just wrote what came
    to my mind.\r\n\r\nJP"
  created: '2007-11-19 21:49:44'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Hi JP,\r\n\r\nThanks for your feedback.\r\nI already had notice that the
    sharp points could be a problem in small or not so good printing conditions.\r\nSo
    here are my changes to the original post so everyone can comment \uF04A\r\n1-Correct
    the cut off by the baseline in the J. Build a new one more \u201Cfamiliar\u201D
    with the rest of the letters...\r\n2- Remove the sharp points in the K, F, T,
    Z.\r\n3- Lighter some characters like H  (right stem) and Y.\r\n4- Correct the
    angles in W.\r\n5- Correct the right serif in U.\r\n\r\nPlease feel free to add
    comments to my (in) development work.\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tuga_3882.gif]"
  created: '2007-11-26 23:26:46'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "This is looking better! Your K could use a lot more work though\u2026I'd
    try to make the diagonals more like the X in terms of weight. You were better
    off with the earlier K. The two arms don't necessary have to meet at a point,
    the bottom leg could grow out of the top one. Also, the bowl of you P could come
    down more so that it doesn't look optically smaller than the bowl of the R."
  created: '2007-11-26 23:46:29'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Hi All (again!),\r\n\r\nThanks for your feedback. After some further work:\r\n\r\n1-
    Did some changes in K after dan reynolds comments. The result is 2 diferent K.
    Not sure for the best...\r\n2- Also after dan reynolds comments, change the bowl
    of P in order to get optically bigger than the bowl of the R.\r\n3- Some optical
    corrections (height) in C, D, G, O, Q and S.\r\n\r\nPlease feel free to add comments
    to my (in) development work.\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tuga2_4662.gif]"
  created: '2007-11-28 23:17:34'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "For an Old Style, this type is pretty modern. That A would feel right at
    home in bodoni and the stress is vertical. Can we see your original source?\r\n\r\n\u2022
    Make all the thick strokes the same width (see the K), cuved thick strokes also
    need more weight.\r\n\u2022 Beak terminals and serifs on thin strokes are all
    to light. Weight them up to match the thick stem serifs (see the I vs C)\r\n\u2022
    Curves need to be smoother. Its hard to tell in a gif, but the R and P for example
    seem to have a corner going from straight to curved.\r\n\u2022 Y should join lower\r\n\u2022
    W should be wider and the angles corrected as mentioned.\r\n\u2022 The leg of
    the r feels like it bends to much. The idea is fine, but a little to wavy.\r\n\r\nAgain:
    can we see your original source?"
  created: '2007-12-04 07:00:31'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Hi Randy \r\nThanks for the feedback.\r\nMy original source is the book \"Breve
    tratado theorico das letras typograficas, offerecido a Sua Alteza Real O Principe
    Regente Nosso Senhor\"\r\nThe author is Joaquim Carneiro (1727-1818)\r\nThe book
    can be seen here [[http://purl.pt/257]].(see pictures below)\r\nThis was my start
    point but of course I made some adjustments and corrections.\r\nFeel free to add
    further comments.\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio Fonseca\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/img1_3823.gif]"
  created: '2007-12-04 23:31:50'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Thank you so much for posting that. Now we can see what is you, and what
    is Joaquim! It looks like it would be interesting to read this book (and understand
    it!). Do \r\n\r\nThis kind of early rational grid-fitting in type design is definitely
    facinating (such as the Romain Du Roi), though I wouldn't be very excited about
    using the results for text. It suffers from many of the issues that happen when
    an engineered approach is applied to letters. Again the thinking is interesting,
    but the results flawed. For example you can clearly see his Y is based on the
    X. But that pushes the crotch too high. And the X is made of 2 straight lines.
    But optically the thin stroke looks broken. The bottom of the Z is too narrow
    (because it's exactly the same width as the top). Same with the S. F crossbar
    is too high compared to the E. Likewise, the P too high compared to the R Not
    to mention the proportions suffer from being crammed into a box. Etc.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    for your purposes, try less fixing and use a straight interpretation as a starting
    point.\r\n\r\nRandy"
  created: '2007-12-05 06:31:04'
- author:
    name: JCSalomon
    picture: 128147
  body: "This thread crashes Firefox pretty reliably; looks like <em>something</em>
    got attached in the first two posts.\r\n\r\n\u2014Joel"
  created: '2007-12-05 22:04:10'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Joel,\r\n\r\nEven in IE that \"something\" don't show...server issue?\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio"
  created: '2007-12-06 01:12:30'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Hi again,\r\n\r\nSo I decided to follow Randy suggestion and as a starting
    point I made no fixing and use a straight interpretation.\r\nI like the result.\r\nI
    guess I have now some work to do in \"S\", \"W\", \"X\", \"Y\" and \"Z\"...\r\nAny
    comments?\r\n\r\nThanks in advance \r\nAnt\xF3nio\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tuga3_4331.gif]"
  created: '2007-12-06 01:21:24'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Yes definitely better. The font is now much more consistent.\r\nAnd yes SZXYZ
    will need attention.\r\nAfter that, I have more detailed ideas to look at.\r\n\r\nI
    like the proportions of that B. Very nice.\r\n\r\nRandy"
  created: '2007-12-06 15:36:32'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Hi again,\r\n\r\nSo I made some changes in the \u201CS\u201D, \u201CW\u201D,
    \u201CX\u201D, \u201CY\u201D and \u201CZ\u201D...\r\nSome optical corrections
    (height) in C, G, O and Q.\r\nAny comments?\r\n\r\nThanks in advance\r\nAnt\xF3nio\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tuga4_3813.gif]"
  created: '2007-12-06 23:38:22'
- author:
    name: JCSalomon
    picture: 128147
  body: "There <em>are</em> files included in the first two posts here, but they seem
    to be corrupted pictures of some sort.\r\n\r\nCan you please edit your posts and
    delete the image references?\r\n\r\n\u2014Joel"
  created: '2007-12-07 05:46:39'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "hmm...no image. Let me try again.\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-07 09:44:34'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "\r\n\r\nhmm...Joel how can I do that without double posting?\r\nI did the
    edit but it created a new post.\r\n\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-07 09:49:03'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Here are some specific comments. Easier to draw a picture!\r\n\r\nSome are
    technical problems, others are my preferences... you will need to find your own
    way as you listen to us, and the source material. Good luck!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/portugal_5164.gif]"
  created: '2007-12-07 18:47:15'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Most of the changes I've made are in pursuit of harmony. Typeface design
    involves a good deal of philosophy. So-called \"humanist\" philosophy accomodates
    and encourages anomalies, aberrations, inconsistencies attributable to a human
    effort eschewing modularity, matching angles and widths, and dogmatic abeyance
    to the grid. So-called \"modernist\" philosophy favors the opposite. The changes
    I've made can easily be construed as reductive modernism aimed at modularization.
    While I dislike modularity and have moved away from it in my own type designs,
    modularization is to some extent an inescapable function of the desire for harmony.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/evenwidth_4209.gif]\r\n\r\nWhich
    phiilosophy, if either, is appropriate for this font? If it had angled stressing,
    proportional character widths and calligraphic artefacting or finish, the conventional
    answer would be Go Humanist, let it all hang out baby! But the plot here is vertical
    stress, even width and a strict synthetic finish. According to conventions in
    type design, modernism wins. According to convention this is a modernist type,
    not old style.\r\n\r\nAcceptance of conventions in type design is not mandatory.
    You're at liberty to reject them.\r\n\r\nI don't see any reason to drop the bowl
    of Y as Randy does. That kind of preference seems to be a personal one---years
    ago I had the same preference, but presently I favour Y's that harmonize with
    X. Nevertheless, I'm glad Randy made the suggestion as it is no less valid than
    mine and he has every right to make it.\r\n\r\n\r\n* A -- widened. I used a flipped
    V. Now it looks a tad too wide.\r\n\r\n* C -- overshoot corrected, fixed upper
    serif.\r\n\r\n* D -- narrowed. Why? If you make D wide (enough) the counterspace
    starts to rival the counterspace of O. Is that really a bad thing? In most fonts
    the capital O contains the largest counterspace of any letter, and the same can
    be said for the lowercase o of \"most fonts\". The reason has to do with saliency
    and cueing value in relation to readability. The large counterspace of an O is
    thought to have a significant saliency or explicit cueing value that helps the
    eye / brain reading hardware recognize it as an O. If that's true, a wide D with
    a cueing value rivaling O might compete with O for recognition. The most visible
    example of this is Helvetica. Another reason for keeping D narrow is enhanced
    elegance. Elegance seems to be one of the key characteristics of this font. Wide
    fat D's look ungainly.\r\n\r\n* E -- extended crossbar fills counterspace, creates
    more even tone and density. Thickened crossbar. \r\n\r\n* F -- same plot as E.\r\n\r\n*
    G -- overshoot corrected, fixed upper serif.\r\n\r\n* H -- widened, solves former
    heaviness problem without narrowing stems. H width now approximates N, increase
    in harmony.\r\n\r\n* K -- redesigned so that diagonals harmonize with X.\r\n\r\n*
    L -- narrowed for improved fit with other letters.\r\n\r\n* O -- overshoot corrected.\r\n\r\n*
    S -- baseline overshoot corrected.\r\n\r\n* W -- new unit built from two overlapping
    V's. Diagonal angles harmonize with V and A.\r\n\r\n* Z -- corrected horizontals,
    serifs replaced with E units.\r\n\r\nAnother thing to reconsider is J. The thin
    part looks a bit thick, and it sports the sole ball-end in the caps set. In settings
    combining the caps with the lowercase the ball end will blend in, but in all caps
    settings it will stick out like a sore thumb.\r\n\r\nKeep going with this font.
    It's been done before, many times over, but it's a good learning opportunity.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-09 06:55:01'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<strong>Finishing touches</strong>\r\n\r\n<em>\"For the sake of refinement
    and artful design\"</em> statement to fill vertical space demanded by typophile
    layout engine---film at eleven :^)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/evenwidth_3922.gif]\r\n\r\nA
    -- extended point.\r\n\r\nG -- same plot as E, F, K, H. I like the original G
    just as much. If there is any point to this move, it modularizes the font and
    dehumanizes it slightly.\r\n\r\nN -- narrowed slightly, extended baseline point.\r\n\r\nAlternate
    B, E, F, L, P, Q. All except the phantom Q are ratio cousins for occasions warranting
    their presence. The phantom Q concept is borrowed from a poster I have for the
    famous QE2 passenger liner.\r\n\r\nj a m e s\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-09 13:08:45'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Thanks James for the feedback...and yes your are 100% rigth...\"It\u2019s
    been done before, many times over, but it\u2019s a good learning opportunity\"...Thats
    why I'm doing it\r\n\r\nSo after read carefully all feedbacks (Randy and James)
    I worked around and made \"lots\" of changes/upgrades. Some more visible them
    others but I will try to explain all:\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nA \u2014 New. Used the flipped
    V.\r\n\r\nE and F \u2014 extended and Thickened crossbar fills counterspace. Also
    reduced the length.\r\n\r\nG \u2014 fixed upper serif and corrected (up) a little
    the horizontal\r\n\r\nH \u2014 widened\r\n\r\nJ- New. I already presented in inicial
    posts another J. Does not fit quiet well (the old one).\r\n\r\nK- New\r\n\r\nQ-
    I like the phantom Q...\r\n\r\nR- New. \r\n\r\nU- correct the curve\r\n\r\nW \u2014
    new. built from two overlapping V\u2019s.\r\n\r\nZ and T \u2014 corrected horizontals,
    serifs replaced with L units.\r\n\r\nThanks all again for the feedback.\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tuga5_5480.gif]"
  created: '2007-12-10 02:18:00'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Thin the curved tip of J just a tiny bit...a tiny bit.\r\n\r\nWidth of new
    J is good. Gaps on Q might need to be wider to give good size range.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-10 10:41:48'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "P: I'd lower the p even more (a good 15%)\r\nQ: I don't like the phantom
    Q :-)\r\nN: upper left serif. It should be a smooth continuation from the diagonal
    (see James' N)\r\nS: Bottom curve has a lump (both you and James)\r\nA: Looks
    a little thicker at top than bottom (should be the reverse)\r\nV: Same as the
    A only flipped\r\nJ: It's point should feel similar to the R and Q (maybe a hair
    thicker)\r\n\r\nFinally, where your horizontals go from thin into thick curves
    (B,D,P,R) there is still a corner. try moving the point to the left and extending
    the bezier handle to make it smoother.\r\n\r\nKeep in mind that most of the advice
    you're getting are sound type-design principles, but some of it is preference.
    You've certainly created a useful set of caps. Much improved compared to your
    original and also your source. Good work!"
  created: '2007-12-10 18:54:41'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Hi again\r\n\r\nNew improvements\r\n\r\nA and V: Optical correction (a little
    thiner at top than bottom) \r\nJ: Thin the curved tip of J just a bit. Point similar
    to Q \r\nK: Correct the upper right serif\r\nN: Correct the diagonal in order
    to have a smooth continuation in the upper left serif.\r\nP: lower now\r\nR: Remove
    the inner curve from the middle out curve\r\nS: Corrected \r\n\r\nI also noticed
    (for a while...) That the size from the top counter in letter \"B\" has the same
    height as the bottom counter. I know that usually there is a \"optical\" need
    for a small counter on top. But like Randy, I like the proportions of that B!\r\n\r\nFinally,
    I tryed to correct (remove the corner) the horizontals that go from thin into
    thick curves (B,D,P,R). Look better now.\r\n\r\nRandy/james,\r\nI'm please to
    see the improvements compared with my first post and also from my source (if he
    had the help from Typophile...:-)), thanks for the comments and support!\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tuga6_3665.gif]"
  created: '2007-12-11 01:31:07'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Quite so Randy---the phantom Q is not for everyone. I only recommend it as
    an alternate Q. Ant\xF3nio can you make a Phantom Q with a gap on just one side
    of the tail? say the top one only, leaving the bottom part sealed. That might
    look better.\r\n\r\nD looks perfick meow! You've hit the <em>sweet spot</em>.\r\n\r\nIf
    I was preparing this font for retail sale these are the changes I would make:\r\n\r\nJ
    --  default = lining (not dropped), alt J = dropped\r\n\r\nK -- integrate the
    arm angles better\r\n\r\nQ -- default = regular unit, alt Q = phantom\r\n\r\nX
    -- fix optical crossover illusion\r\n\r\nj a m e s\r\n\"that's all I could come
    up with in five minutes\""
  created: '2007-12-11 01:58:48'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "X: The thin stroke needs to be broken and moved apart. I posted something
    about this a few years back, but couldn't find it when I searched. Here is a fresh
    image showing the optical illusion in the X:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/x_ordeal_6428.gif]\r\n\r\nY:
    The crotch looks off. I think it's because the diagonal thick stroke is too narrow,
    or tapers too much. The point is too far left, so it doesn't look like the thick
    strokes join smoothly.\r\n\r\nQ: Phantoms aside, I think the underlying form is
    one of the key \"features\" of your source material, and I think you've treated
    it well. I happen to not like it though :-) The tail feels like an appology. Like
    the rest of the oddities in your source, I think it comes from too rational of
    an approach. Just a comment, no advice here."
  created: '2007-12-11 07:06:43'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Hi again!\r\n\r\nNew improvements\r\n\r\nJ- One default = lining (not dropped)
    and another alt J = dropped. Not sure about this one: I think that the lining
    will look always smaller them the rest of the letters.\r\nK- Built 2 new. Still
    not very happy\r\nQ- Built 2 new. One with a Phantom Q with a gap on just the
    top side of the tail as suggested by James.\r\nStill love the first one and as
    Randy said is one of the \u201Cfeatures\u201D that stands out from my source material.\r\nY-
    Corrected the crotch off. Now the diagonal thick stroke is \"link\" to the thick
    strokes (join more smoothly).\r\nX- fixed the optical crossover illusion\r\n\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tuga7_6702.gif]"
  created: '2007-12-12 01:42:17'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: Good work!
  created: '2007-12-13 17:30:45'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Hi!\r\n\r\nThanks Randy :-)\r\nI\u2019ve been work over the lowercase for
    my typeface. \r\nHere is the inicial work to have a feedback from typophiles!\r\nAny
    comments or suggestions are, as always, highly appreciated.\r\n\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tuga8_4271.gif]"
  created: '2007-12-13 23:43:01'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Take it away James! :-)\r\nSorry, no time right now."
  created: '2007-12-14 04:48:54'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Oh wow I found ten minutes hiding underneath the sofa!\r\n\r\nI was playing,
    \"You give me forty dollars\" with my friend Amanda. Amanda won as usual, and
    I looked around for forty dollars to give her and couldn't find any money around
    the house, but I found ten minutes :^) weee!\r\n\r\nI'll go away now and edit
    this lower case, mark it up with corrections and so on, and when I'm done I'll
    post the result.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-14 11:30:44'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "a -- bowl widened, tension increase, curved stroke thickened in vertical
    axis, resulting shape similar to original but more rigor. Tail curled upwards.
    Hood right corner harmonized with h, n, m, u. Ball end reposition, size increase.\r\n\r\nb
    -- bowl widened, curved stroke thickened in vertical axis, contrast increase.\r\n\r\nc
    -- stroke contrast increase, curved stroke thickened in vertical axis, ball end
    size increase and repositon.\r\n\r\nd -- stroke treatment same as b but bowl narrowed.\r\n\r\ne
    -- stroke treatment same as c. Sharp right outer corner rounded off.\r\n\r\nf
    -- hood redesigned, ball end repositioned, bar extended both ways, baseline seif
    extended right.\r\n\r\ng -- ear repositioned, ball end size increase, lower occulus
    flowed asymmetrically.\r\n\r\nh -- body widened a very small amount, right corner
    at x-line reflowed.\r\n\r\nj -- tip trimmed back, descent shortened---see also
    p and q.\r\n\r\nk -- arm thinned, arm serif symmetry reversed for improved letter
    fit.\r\n\r\nm -- body widened a small amount for more improved color.\r\n\r\nn
    -- same as h.\r\n\r\no -- vertical strokes thickened, body widened.\r\n\r\np --
    same treatment as d, descension shortened.\r\n\r\nq -- vertical curved stroke
    thickened, bowl vertically compressed up from baseline, descension shortened.\r\n\r\nr
    --  arm moved up, ball end size increase.\r\n\r\nt -- bar extended right, baseline
    curl thickened.\r\n\r\ny -- descension shortened.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/contrastylower_5142.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    curved corners of m and u could do with reflowing but I ran out of time.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-15 06:07:49'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "The tail of <strong>y</strong> might work better with a ball end but I left
    it as you drew it, figuring you want it that way. Also think about whether <strong>s</strong>
    should have ball ends or serifs. The source material <strong>s</strong> has a
    ball end up top and a serif at bottom.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-15 06:12:30'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: I vote titling face. Kill the lc. They feel totally, immensely different,
    like they are in different leagues.
  created: '2007-12-15 08:21:58'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Dan, you should make a few fonts of your own and experience first-hand the
    same phenomenon every type designer runs into early on---the dual case roman latin
    alphabet is two different alphabets constructed on different rules.\r\n\r\nIf
    you've got something more constructive to add---please do. Like a revised lower
    case that does away with the pen influence. Draw that and post it. Let's see it.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-15 11:36:04'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "i had the same problem James describes. The upper and lower case seem to
    be two different things altogether, needing different envisioning and following
    different rules. I did think it was jhust me though :)\r\nThe uppercase looks
    great! My preference would be a larger lower bowl on the B and fiddle with the
    K some more...but perhaps that would throw out the balance with other letters.\r\nI
    like the non-round shapes of the lowercase counters.\r\nI like the original y
    in the source scan with that little ball on the end. the s there looks unusual!
    \r\nWhy does the alphabet end with x, z and y?\r\nWhy do you call the Q a phantom?
    \r\n:)"
  created: '2007-12-15 12:30:37'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Hi Ben : ) It is possbile to build a font using a consistent set of rules
    for upper and lower case. I made one such font and realized the solution required
    a reductive design. Other type designers discovered the same thing long before
    I was born, and the general consensus is that reductive design is a <em>cul de
    sac</em>---the types are consistent, and efficient, but not much fun compared
    to designs in which the lower case preserves pen-derived rules of construction.
    People desire idiosyncracy but thrive on eccentricity in the same breath.\r\n\r\nI
    think x, y, and z wound up at the end because they're the least-used letters.
    A bit like Google and the internet, the pecking order is based on relevance.\r\n\r\nI
    call the gapped Q a \"phantom\" letter because part of the structure isn't there,
    or is not shown, but spectators infer the missing parts from experience of complete
    examples. I borrowed the term from anatomy / medicine, where amputated limbs are
    called phantom limbs because 1) they used to be there, 2) amputees experience
    a \"phantom limb effect\", percieving the missing limb to be there, much like
    seeing a ghost. This Q isn't a particularly strong example of a phantom glyph.
    A better example is a P with the stem section between the bowl removed, or an
    N with one stem removed. Aldo Novarese designed a typeface featuring a large number
    of phantom letters---<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/stop/\" target=\"_new\">Stop</a>.
    Disappointing that page at Myfonts has no description of Stop. I should talk Laurence
    Penny into letting me write one for them, it's such a significant face.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-15 14:14:10'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I also found that the numbers need separate ideas, not just following the
    structures of letters. Probably more so than the differences between upper and
    lowercase. \r\nI meant really that the original scan here had not x, y, z but
    x, z then y. Maybe just visually more interesting than x, y, z. \r\nI know Stop,
    which i initially thought was exciting, but seems to be used rather badly on the
    whole. I've seen 'phantom' ampersands or dollar signs in other fonts too. :)"
  created: '2007-12-15 15:40:05'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "My bad. I simply meant that if he were to stop at the uppercase, he'd be
    a success. \r\n\r\nSince this is a learning exercise, I say go for it. Trying
    to match the two cases is going to be quite an experience that I'm sure will pay
    dividends over the long run."
  created: '2007-12-15 19:12:38'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Dan, it's okay man. No offense taken.\r\n\r\n<em>I simply meant that if he
    were to stop at the uppercase, he\u2019d be a success.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's different.
    You could be right. One way of developing this font as a commercial product would
    be to make a set of smallcaps to help it appeal to more tastes.\r\n\r\nj a m e
    s"
  created: '2007-12-15 19:38:36'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Hi all!\r\n\r\nThanks for the feedback. And now I want to give my feedback
    to yours feedbacks....\r\n\r\n1- James is rigth. This is a learning experience
    in type design. Of course that if I can make it a commercial product I will. For
    that I need to see its \"value\" at the end. Again James is rigth when he says
    that a set of smallcaps will help it \"appeal to more tastes\".\r\n\r\n2- Like
    stated before my source is a old typographic book. Again and again I think james
    is rigth: the order for the x, z, and y its because they\u2019re the least used
    letters- We dont use Y in Portuguese words!\r\n\r\n3- The caps (at the end) are
    quiet diferent from the caps at the beginning. I think I will do the same \"learning
    curve\" for the lowercaps and the results will be much more interestings that
    the first one!\r\n\r\nI will \"study\" all sugestions and do a re-design. Stay
    tunned...\r\nThanks all for the support!\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio"
  created: '2007-12-16 12:24:18'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "hello!\r\n\r\nHere are my improvements:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tuga9_6534.gif]\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio"
  created: '2007-12-16 18:47:47'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Wow! Big time improvements! How could I ever doubt? Great start!
  created: '2007-12-16 22:22:42'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Hi all!\r\n\r\nIn my continuous effort to improve my typeface I made this
    ampersand.\r\nAny comments?\r\nThe numbers are giving me some fight...so I will
    wrestling with them a little before post...\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo_4850.gif]"
  created: '2007-12-17 00:39:33'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Numbers fight with me too. Sorry I don't know enough to talk about your ampersand.
    Your caps are looking good :)
  created: '2007-12-17 01:12:15'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Numberals* have fought with type designers for as long as anyone can remember.
    I was rudely awoken in the middle of the night by a vicious gang of Fibinachi
    numbers. Being an ex-fontcop I recognized their faces --- Signor Gelati, Ravenna
    de La Rochelle and Henri Duke de Orleans a.k.a Scarface, Saunier \"train wreck\"
    du Clunk, and the notorious Claude St.Cyr.\r\n\r\n* in correspondence between
    Arbo and Ray Larabie numerals are referred to as <em>numberals</em> to eliminate
    the other two terms.\r\n\r\nj a m e s\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-17 06:30:04'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/thisisgood_3943.gif]\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-17 06:41:06'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "dear typophiles!\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve just finish my (first) studies for the
    italic lowercase.\r\nAlthough not finished I decided to post it in order to get
    some feedback.\r\nAny comments or suggestions are, as always, highly appreciated.\r\nAt
    least V, S and K need more work.\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/italico_5048.gif]"
  created: '2007-12-20 23:36:50'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Keep working on it (the italic) Ant\xF3nio. I don't want to say anything
    at this stage that might stifle your individuality or instincts. Follow your instincts.
    When you're ready, post a PDF with the italic text set in columns, 10pt on 14pt
    slug or thereabouts will tell us a lot.\r\n\r\nLooking good. Looking great actually.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-28 04:21:28'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Hi again!\r\n\r\nHere is the result of my work in the italic!\r\nPlease feel
    free to comment! Please note that I didn't work in the metrics (kerning) yet!\r\nThanks
    again for the feedback!\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio Fonseca\r\n\r\nPS-I posted a gif because
    I don't know how can I post a PDF. I try to search but did not found the topic!
    Its possible?\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/teste1_4870.gif]"
  created: '2008-01-08 00:58:42'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "It's possible to post a pdf if you edit the original post and attach it there
    :)\r\nI think the letters need wider sidebearings but the shapes are very pleasant.\r\ne
    is too light; s too dark...and n looks wide. That p is very pretty. I like the
    f and y too. :)"
  created: '2008-01-08 01:06:58'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "hmm...I did edit and add the pdf...but its not show...why? (I made attach
    and it was uploaded)!\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio Fonseca"
  created: '2008-01-08 01:35:59'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Hard to say...maybe try again? :S
  created: '2008-01-09 00:14:44'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Ok...Now I did it! :-)\r\nIts on the first post a PDF with the first test
    of text (regular and italic).\r\nPlease feel free to comment.\r\n\r\nI made some
    adjustements in Italic:\r\n- New \"e\"\r\n- New \"s\"\r\n- \"n\" less wide\r\n-
    Cross Stroke \"f\" and \"t\" larger (just a bit...)\r\n- New \"w\"\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio
    Fonseca\r\n\r\nPS- Its starting to look like a typeface, no? :-)\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-10 00:23:32'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Ok...Now It's online!\r\nHad some problems in post the PDF. See it in first
    post!\r\nThanks again in advance for comments!\r\n\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio Fonseca"
  created: '2008-01-12 01:07:40'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Yay! I found it...some error yesterday. I think I'm going to do the same
    as James and leave it to you for a bit, so I don't interfere with the specific
    pictures in your head. That italic is especially elegant. \r\nWith the roman...\r\nI
    think you need some overshoot on the round shapes, and the space width can be
    much less (I think I read it can be the same width as the 'i'). The thin strokes
    look slightly different weights (comparing the r and y, or c and s). They don't
    need to be exactly the same, though :)\r\nThe word 'barnaby' looks very nice!\r\nKeep
    on going!!"
  created: '2008-01-15 23:26:08'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Hi again!\r\n\r\nNew improvements on the roman!\r\n\r\nI have a question
    to all:\r\nshould or should not the m be produced from 2x n?\r\nHelvetica is not
    but minion it is!\r\nIs any \"rule\" about this?\r\nThanks again for the feedback!\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio
    Fonseca"
  created: '2008-01-17 22:12:04'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I think there is no rule; you need to judge each font for itself. (My feeling
    is that your n could be wider on this one.)\r\nThe thin strokes are looking much
    improved :)"
  created: '2008-01-17 22:43:59'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi Antonio,\r\n\r\nI personally like the charming irregularities in your
    first capital versions. (PORTUGAL)\r\nMinors are charming and Italic definitely!\r\nSeems
    that someone (like me;-) likes Bodonis early works.\r\nHave you been to the museum
    at Parma?\r\n\r\nComments seem very useful,\r\nyet, try to keep something of the
    original charme you put in your letters, too!\r\n\r\nTo me its clear that there
    is a lot of sun in your heart, if I may say so ;-)\r\nminor a is beautiful. The
    inclined g, too.\r\n\r\nKeep on, good feeling in your type!\r\n\r\nStefan\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-24 07:30:19'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Thank you Stefan!\r\nI try to keep some \"charme\" from the original.\r\nAfter
    a couple of week working on them (regular and Italic) I post the results.\r\nIts
    on the first post 2 PDF:\r\nregular.pdf\t\r\nItalico.pdf\t\r\n\r\nPlease feel
    free to comment.\r\nThanks in advance\r\nAnt\xF3nio Fonseca\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-24 22:45:01'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi Ant\xF3nio,\r\n\r\nI used the pdf from the first post here. Right?\r\n\r\nI
    definitely love it!\r\nIts not perfect in the run but as I said,\r\nI love it
    as it is.\r\n\r\nAre you inspired by Bodoni? (didn\u2019t answer my question;-)\r\nHave
    you been to Parma?\r\n\r\nStefan\r\n\r\nPS\r\nAre you born in 1974?\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-25 14:59:53'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Do you know what I like most about your type maybe?\r\nIt doesn\u2019t seem
    to be made by computer.\r\nAnd this is GREAT!\r\n\r\nLike a charming handmade
    design.\r\nFor this truly old style as you wanted it maybe.\r\nLovely.\r\n;-)\r\n\r\na
    and g roman are great"
  created: '2008-01-25 15:02:30'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Hi Stefan Seifert,\r\n\r\nSorry for missing your questions. I will try to
    awnser now:\r\n\r\nYes I did born in 1974.\r\nI think I was one day in Parma in
    2001 in a trip to Italy, but did not visit the museum...\r\nAs I said above my
    original source is the book \u201CBreve tratado theorico das letras typograficas,
    offerecido a Sua Alteza Real O Principe Regente Nosso Senhor\u201D\r\nThe author
    is Joaquim Carneiro (1727-1818). Did not \"used\" Bodini inspiration...:-)\r\nI'm
    pretty sure that still need some work but I'm enjoing the path...\r\n\r\nThanks
    for your comments\r\nAnt\xF3nio Fonseca\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-25 19:00:48'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: ">Yes I did born in 1974.\r\n\r\nCool. Young bastard ;-)\r\n\r\n>I think I
    was one day in Parma in 2001 in a trip to Italy, but did not visit the museum...\r\n\r\nNoooo.
    You can see some beautiful Italics from the Italian master.\r\nAnd its very exclusive.
    Make a date and you will be there alone ti visit!\r\n\r\n>As I said above my original
    source is the book \u201CBreve tratado theorico das letras typograficas, offerecido
    a Sua Alteza Real O Principe Regente Nosso Senhor\u201D\r\nThe author is Joaquim
    Carneiro (1727-1818). Did not \u201Cused\u201D Bodini inspiration...:-\r\n\r\nI
    am so sorry. Didn\u2019t read with enough attention! \r\nI am always looking at
    the letters. Don\u2019t like to read them ;-))\r\n\r\n>I\u2019m pretty sure that
    still need some work but I\u2019m enjoing the path...\r\n\r\nYes, your path is
    good!\r\n\r\nHow is it living in Porto?\r\nIs it worth investing some money for
    a place to stay?\r\nI am terribly missing the sun and the old walls with fading
    yellow colors on it.\r\nDesperate.\r\n\r\nStefan\r\n\r\nWhy isn\u2019t there anymore
    the \u201Eattach image\u201C link?\r\n? Or am I blind?\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-26 09:47:35'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi \r\n\r\nhere it is again (the insert image link;-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Manifesto-Bodoni_3598.gif]"
  created: '2008-01-26 11:35:40'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Hi Stefan!\r\n\r\nThanks for the image. Its very nice.Do you have more?:-)\r\nWell,
    don't know exactlly what you mean by \"investing some money for a place to stay\".
    If its a place to spend some vacations its nice. We have been with sun this last
    2 week but usually in winter here is cold and rain (perhaps not that cold as Hamburg
    :-))\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio Fonseca"
  created: '2008-01-27 23:55:13'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Ciao Ant\xF3nio,\r\n\r\nyes I have more. But later.\r\nI meant to stay forever.\r\nSick
    of living without the light.\r\nThe light is what most of all I am missing.\r\n\r\nGreetings\r\nfrom
    another letterlover\r\nStefan\r\n\r\nPS\r\nthanks for your compliment"
  created: '2008-01-29 08:11:47'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Hi Stefan!\r\n\r\nwell...in Porto we have sun half the year...During winter
    (november-march) we got cloudy and rainny weather! The south of Portugal has more
    sun them us here :-)\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio Fonseca\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-31 00:25:55'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi Ant\xF3nio,\r\n\r\nwell, half a year is quite good, we here at Hamburg
    have sun 20-30 days a year.\r\n:-((\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2008-02-05 16:43:50'
- author:
    name: ferfolio
    picture: 128984
  body: "Hi!\r\n\r\nI have some comments, as allways take them or leave them :)\r\n\r\ni've
    been checking out the regular and italic and the first thing i saw was that the
    italic is too thin compared with the regular. Do you agree?\r\n\r\nThe tail of
    the \"g\" is a little to the left, not centerd.\r\n\r\n\"bdpq\" are not totaly
    rounded, they are kind of rough, is this on porpous?\r\n\r\n\"e\" is too wide
    and kind of light\r\n\r\nThats what I saw\r\n\r\nHOPE TO HAVE HELPED A LITTLE\r\n\r\n\r\nFerch\r\n\r\n[[http://www.tipografia-montevideo.info/|Tipograf\xEDa-Montevideo]]"
  created: '2008-02-06 19:42:23'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Hi Ferch!\r\n\r\nare your comments about the regular or italics?\r\nThanks\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio"
  created: '2008-02-07 16:59:12'
- author:
    name: ferfolio
    picture: 128984
  body: "About the regular\r\n\r\nsorry! hehe\r\n\r\nsee you arround\r\nFerch\r\n\r\n[[http://www.tipografia-montevideo.info/|Tipograf\xEDa-Montevideo]]"
  created: '2008-02-07 19:41:04'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi Fernando,\r\n\r\nif you like experimental typedesign, too, you could check
    www.stylefaces.com\r\nYet, I know the views on the site aren\u2019t the max.\r\n\r\nsalute\r\nStefan"
  created: '2008-02-11 10:48:15'
- author:
    name: ferfolio
    picture: 128984
  body: "Hey!\r\n\r\nThanx for the link Stefan, there are some intresting types\r\n\r\nsalute\r\n\r\nFerch\r\n\r\n[[http://www.tipografia-montevideo.info/|Tipograf\xEDa-Montevideo]]"
  created: '2008-02-11 13:15:14'
date: '2007-11-19 00:37:09'
title: A new "old style"?

---
