---
author:
  name: hanabot
body: im doing a typography project, and i wanted to know what are the worst typefaces
  the earth has ever seen, if you can give me a list of the worst typefaces you have
  ever seen, that would be great.
comments:
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "Caslon\r\nHelvetica\r\nUnivers"
  created: '2007-11-19 03:16:09'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: "The one I'm working on (Codename: Furtive) is pretty horrid. I'm sure once
    it's released, it'll make the top-5, no prob. Also, you might want to use the
    Wayback Machine and search for free TTF fonts circa 1996. They're pretty nasty,
    too.\r\n\r\nOr do you mean common faces which are technically decent but ugly?\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-19 03:21:44'
- author:
    name: Gary Long
    picture: 112662
  body: There are some really bad typefaces out there by folks who didn't know what
    they were doing, but they aren't available from reputable foundries and generally
    shunned by graphic designers. There are some spectacular examples of typefaces
    used badly, or wrongly chosen for the application at hand. Assuming a typeface
    meets the criteria its designer set out to achieve, both technically and aesthetically,
    I don't think one can say any particular face can be called "bad" or "good".
  created: '2007-11-19 03:22:05'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Tiresias.\r\n\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2007-11-19 03:34:44'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "HaleyFiege,\r\n\r\nWhich face do you like best, even if you like neither.
    Or better, which is worst, Helvetica, or Universe?\r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2007-11-19 04:18:03'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: I was pointing out how silly the question was.
  created: '2007-11-19 04:36:46'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "In his book \u201CWhile You\u2019re Reading\u201D, Gerard Unger points out
    that he never thought there was such a thing as a bad font before Emigre came
    along. Just food for thought."
  created: '2007-11-19 04:38:06'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "The worst font ever created, in concept and execution, is <A HREF=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/mailbox/\">Linotype
    Mailbox</A>.\r\nTake a moment to get over the execrable premise, hypothetically
    accept the assumption that it could be a good idea in the first place, and from
    this basis you can then begin to see how poorly it was carried out."
  created: '2007-11-19 04:41:32'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "James\r\n\r\nWell, that's an easy shot these days, but in Emigre's heyday,
    few would step up to the plate in a public forum to protest. Did I say few? I
    meant two.\r\n\r\nDigitally speaking, it's quite easy to distinguish a technically
    bad typeface; convert it to letterpress. Emigre's fonts are dismal failures. Even
    Journal is quite goofy, and it is the one Emigre face I like a lot. Apparently,
    if you can't draw or punchcut a typeface, letterpress technology will just show
    you for what you are. This has nothing to do with \"worst\" (which is apparently
    an aesthetic decision), just \"bad.\"\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2007-11-19 04:56:59'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Cerulean, Linotype Mailbox is a new one to me. It's pretty awful, but look
    at the year... 1997 was when everybody was adding @ symbols to logos. This is
    bandwagonism gone bad.  \r\n\r\nFoundries need to expire the lame typefaces instead
    of letting them decay in their catalogues. No other industry leaves crap in their
    catalogues forever! Come on people!"
  created: '2007-11-19 06:21:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>convert it to letterpress.</em>\r\n\r\nWhy would you expect faces designed
    for one medium to work in another without adaptation?\r\nYou know how much difficulty
    there has always been in adapting the foundry classics to new technology, whether
    hot metal, photo, or digital, offset or monitor.\r\nWould you attempt to print
    a finely-detailed 19th century face designed for coated paper on a laid rag stock,
    in the manner of 17th century printing?\r\n\r\n<em>expire the lame typefaces</em>\r\n\r\nI
    once retired a typeface, but people still kept wanting to buy it."
  created: '2007-11-19 07:05:31'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "[[http://cherokee.org/Culture/Downloads/4/Default.aspx|Official Cherokee
    Font]]\r\n\r\nNo disrespect intended to the Cherokee Nation, or their language
    or culture, but this is a very poorly crafted example to offer as their official
    script specimen."
  created: '2007-11-19 07:17:08'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "This question is, as is, almost impossible to answer. 99% of the free fonts
    on the web are pieces of s***. now if the question was something like \"the worst
    typeface, according to you, within the well established and renowned foundries\",
    it would still be hard to answer - and extremely subjective - but, even though
    I know I'm far from being original, I'd personally say Comic Sans, ironically
    created by this guy vincent Connarre, whose last name means \"moron\" in french
    (it's actually even worse than that but we are on a civilized forum).\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2007-11-19 08:37:22'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "Rotis\r\nZapf Chancery\r\nPapyrus\r\nSerpentine\r\nCritter\r\nComic Sans\r\nLithos\r\nAnd
    many more..."
  created: '2007-11-19 08:41:46'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "One more hater of Rotis...\r\n\r\nThis type is used by major graphic designers,
    it composes the entire type encyclopedia \"Typo\" by Ott, Friedl and stein...
    \r\n\r\nWeird.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2007-11-19 08:55:51'
- author:
    name: table9
    picture: 109593
  body: Phew, I'm glad someone notched the Comic Sans mark. While there are many horrid
    typefaces out there, none has done such a masterful job of polluting corporate
    documents, birthday cards, sympathy cards, birth certificates, death certificates,
    company signs...oh you get the picture. It's been beaten to death more times than
    not. I'd prefer any number of bad typefaces over Comic Sans. What a terrible terrible
    society polluting creation.
  created: '2007-11-19 08:59:43'
- author:
    name: Small Caps
    picture: 112615
  body: "Comic Sans.\r\nHobo.\r\nBank Gothic."
  created: '2007-11-19 13:27:39'
- author:
    name: Small Caps
    picture: 112615
  body: For all Comic Sans haters, please check this one out. Scary reading! http://bancomicsans.com/home.html
  created: '2007-11-19 13:28:58'
- author:
    name: Small Caps
    picture: 112615
  body: '... Not to mention Souvenir. http://www.linotype.com/802/itcsouvenir-family.html
    Ah... the list is long!'
  created: '2007-11-19 13:34:06'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Do you know the book [[http://www.markbattypublisher.com/servlet/gallery_view?number=1007|Types
    Best Remembered, Types Best Forgotten]]?\r\n\r\nThere are some interesting texts
    by well-known typographers about  their personal \"worst typeface ever\"."
  created: '2007-11-19 13:42:12'
- author:
    name: belleisle
  body: "There does come a point where something is so bad, it becomes good again.\r\nI
    would honestly use Comic Sans, if the right opportunity turned up .\r\n\r\nMust
    disagree about ITC Souvenir as its currently quite a 'hot' font, at least in London
    at the moment.\r\n\r\nHobo - if memory serves was used on a Dylan cover?\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-19 13:52:35'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>One more hater of Rotis...</cite>\r\n\r\nAdd me to that list too. Can't
    stand it.\r\n\r\nBut I'm tired of threads like this."
  created: '2007-11-19 13:53:51'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Small Caps beat me to it with Souvenir. In fact, many of the ITC faces with
    their oversized x-heights annoy me.\r\n\r\nComic Sans, and crapola faces designed
    by amateurs are givens."
  created: '2007-11-19 14:02:56'
- author:
    name: paul dean
    picture: 113608
  body: "\r\nSand, anyone?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nhttp://www.djmisc.com"
  created: '2007-11-19 14:13:20'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "As a typographer - I'd say any typeface misued - such as the menu I had to
    try to read yesterday. Alba in 8 point for descriptions of named foods... - yikes!
    \r\n\r\nIf James R. Harris would be alive to respond - he'd tell you ITC Eras.
    Why? Because it doesn't lean enough to be an oblique/italic and it isn't straight
    up -- it's just there, in limbo - leaning....\r\n\r\nPersonally, I hold a grudge
    towards HOBO. I can't stand that face. A quickie job came up for a window washer
    - and his font was HOBO... why - because he made his logo himself and HOBO was
    on the darn computer.... LOL\r\n\r\nP.S. In defense of Emigre - when the faces
    first hit the publishing industry - they were quickly embraced -- but for front
    cover type. How many time did Tony Greco use Matrix -- oh, and it worked? Not
    all their faces are winners, but they did add a nice amount of a \"new\" style
    to help folks create new looks for front covers....\r\n\r\nTriplex got its time
    in there -- and who could forget Mason - it was ahead of it's time... okay so
    3 fonts in heavy use for a year or two is still quite a typographical accomplishment."
  created: '2007-11-19 14:32:50'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: '[[http://typophile.com/node/36352|Wasn''t there a thread like this not so
    long ago?]]'
  created: '2007-11-19 14:39:15'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "In defense of Sand, it\u2019s not the worst handwriting font out there, and
    it actually passes really well for Toulouse-Lautrec\u2019s handwriting, so it
    can be nice for period pieces. But why Apple made it a system font I will never
    understand."
  created: '2007-11-19 14:56:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Poor Comic Sans takes a beating again. It is what it is and has been badly
    used by many but the real reason is just that it was bundled with MS apps and
    \"free\" to everyone with no understanding of typography. No need to jump all
    over Vince or to ridicule his last name.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-11-19 15:32:19'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: What are the worst assignments.......?
  created: '2007-11-19 15:40:13'
- author:
    name: acnapyx
    picture: 113394
  body: 'Maybe [[http://vccgraphics.wordpress.com/2006/10/13/10-tragic-typefaces/|this]]
    will add some bashing to the list of the worst typefaces ever. Personally I cannot
    stand Courier and Arial (<strong>not Helvetica, but exactly Arial!</strong>),
    but that''s personal. '
  created: '2007-11-19 15:55:54'
- author:
    name: Rob Sutton
    picture: 111874
  body: "<em>Small Caps beat me to it with Souvenir. In fact, many of the ITC faces
    with their oversized x-heights annoy me.</em>\r\n\r\nSaying that a lot of ITC
    fonts are quite popular again, Avant garde, serif gothic, even souvenir. I was
    lucky enough once to do a classs with Ed Benguiat, what a great bloke, anyway
    he was showing his work and up came ITC Tiffany, a hush came across the room.
    He looked at it a few seconds then said, biggest piece of crap I ever did, but
    one of my biggest sellers...go figure. And then the truest words I have ever heard....it's
    not whether you do crap, we all do crap....as long as you know it's crap.\r\n\r\nBy
    the way I hate Caxton.....I know that's crap!\r\n\r\nCheers"
  created: '2007-11-19 16:03:19'
- author:
    name: TomN-CA
    picture: 112736
  body: "I think that Mailbox font just might win in this category. It's just too
    much.\r\n\r\nTry @a@c@0@o in the font preview and challenge your friends to read
    it!\r\n\r\nAnd I thought i/I/l/L  / rn / m  could be bad"
  created: '2007-11-19 16:03:26'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>And then the truest words I have ever heard....it\u2019s not whether
    you do crap, we all do crap....as long as you know it\u2019s crap.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf
    only we had the option of just not releasing the crap."
  created: '2007-11-19 16:24:31'
- author:
    name: base
  body: mistral
  created: '2007-11-19 16:41:58'
- author:
    name: sayerhs
    picture: 112341
  body: "How do you say a font is bad, let alone worst? Doesn't it depend too much
    on personal preferences?? \r\n\r\n:P\r\nshreyas"
  created: '2007-11-19 17:03:13'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>How do you say a font is bad, let alone worst? Doesn\u2019t it depend
    too much on personal preferences?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s usually a personal thing,
    but in some cases fonts are just bad from practical or functional standpoints.
    Arial is a bad font because it tries to be a Helvetica knockoff, but inconsistently
    blends features of Helvetica and MT Grot to create something truly ugly. Comic
    sans fails because it doesn\u2019t actually look like comic book lettering.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, this sort of reasoning can break down pretty quickly. For example, many
    of the Emigre fonts often fail at being useful outside the context of Emigre,
    or even being legible at all. But they did succeed at creating a dialog about
    type and type design that had a huge impact on design and has survived the magazine
    itself, so they succeeded conceptually as a catalyst for furthering creativity."
  created: '2007-11-19 17:17:06'
- author:
    name: sayerhs
    picture: 112341
  body: "Ah yes, true.\r\nI guess what I was trying to say was theres a thin line
    between trying to name \"the worst font\" and \"my least favourite font(which
    automatically must make it the worst font)\"\r\n\r\nPs- i dont think comic sans
    failed. Like Chris mentioned, its just been abused.\r\n\r\nshreyas"
  created: '2007-11-19 17:33:49'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/serious_3694.jpg]'
  created: '2007-11-19 17:53:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Arial is a bad font because it tries to be a Helvetica knockoff, but
    inconsistently blends features of Helvetica and MT Grot...</em>\r\n\r\nDo you
    really think \"blending features\" was Robin Nicholas' modus operandi?\r\nLook
    at the other faces he has designed, such as Nimrod and Clarion.\r\nHe is a more
    accomplished designer than Max Miedinger.\r\nAs you note with reference to MT
    Grotesque, Robin went back to the 19th century grotesque. In so doing he was ahead
    of the trend that has recently seen several foundries release grots in that quirkier,
    older genre.\r\nArial would get more respect if it had been hyped like Helvetica,
    but the foundry BS is lacking--generally the best they do is apologize for it,
    saying it's a good screen font! \r\nIt could be argued that Arial is a deconstruction
    of Helvetica, putting some fibre back into the white bread."
  created: '2007-11-19 18:00:34'
- author:
    name: sayerhs
    picture: 112341
  body: "Hehe.. Vag rounded is just like a straightened out comic sans. Realised that
    during our college fest, when we used vag to match the identity designed by satya(above).
    :D\r\n\r\nThen again, if a typeface is used in the wrong place(perhaps at the
    wrong time) it doesnt qualify it to be \"the worst typeface\". The fault lies
    with the user and not the typeface itself.\r\n\r\n@hanabot--> What IS your project
    anyway?\r\n\r\nshreyas"
  created: '2007-11-19 18:04:10'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: I actually like Papyrus :(
  created: '2007-11-19 18:13:15'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Do you really think \u201Cblending features\u201D was Robin Nicholas\u2019
    modus operandi?</cite>\r\n\r\nGiven what I have read about the history of Arial
    and the motivation behind its creation, yes.\r\n\r\n<cite>He is a more accomplished
    designer than Max Miedinger.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat doesn\u2019t make Arial any better\u2014nobody\u2019s
    perfect. Ed Benguiat is more accomplished than either of the two, and he knocked
    out a few bad types, too.\r\n\r\n<cite>As you note with reference to MT Grotesque,
    Robin went back to the 19th century grotesque. In so doing he was ahead of the
    trend that has recently seen several foundries release grots in that quirkier,
    older genre.</cite>\r\n\r\nCan you tell me where I can read more about those details?
    The best I\u2019ve read on the matter is Mark Simonson\u2019s <em>The Scourge
    of Arial</em> which points to MT grot as the source, and I have seen that article
    cited by other sources I consider reputable. As for Arial being a trailblazing
    design, that may be so, but Arial is still pretty hard on the eyes, at least IMHO."
  created: '2007-11-19 18:17:41'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "<em>Vag rounded is just like a straightened out comic sans.</em>\r\n\r\nIts
    not at all a straightened comic sans but a rounded grotesque, you can say. It
    was actually designed for Volkswagen AG in 1979 by Adrian Williams. And I think
    its a great typeface. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-19 18:18:48'
- author:
    name: elizabeth_355
    picture: 112087
  body: Peignot, Souvenir, and Arial.
  created: '2007-11-19 18:19:21'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I actually like Papyrus :(</cite>\r\n\r\nMe too. But I wasn\u2019t
    happy when it showed up on my sister\u2019s wedding invites."
  created: '2007-11-19 18:31:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Given what I have read about the history of Arial and the motivation
    behind its creation, yes.</em>\r\n\r\nDon't believe everything you read.\r\nWhy
    not open the fonts up and compare them?\r\n\r\n<em>nobody\u2019s perfect.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    thought you were talking about the process (\"blending features\") not the end
    result.\r\n\r\n<em>Can you tell me where I can read more about those details?
    </em>\r\n\r\nAs I said, open up the fonts.\r\nAlso, take a look at some printed
    samples of grots from c.1900 (not revivals, even a little nuance loses the flavour
    of the original, as can be seen with G.G. Lange's Akzidenz Grotesk)."
  created: '2007-11-19 18:45:05'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/WhatTheFont_Scroll copy_6312.jpg]'
  created: '2007-11-19 18:46:58'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "\"There are only two kinds of typefaces: those you know how to use, and those
    you don't.\" \r\nAttributed to Alvin Lustig\r\n\r\nI cannot track down a source
    for this quote, which I read somewhere, with its attribution, about 1991. Whether
    it is from Lustig or not, I do haul it out whenever this hoary subject gets raised.\r\n\r\nThat
    said, it may well take an extremely talented or sensitive typographer to design
    something excellent with some of the faces mentioned above.\r\n\r\n**********\r\nUnfortunately,
    too many people [including myself] over too many years have tried to do things
    such as printing \"a finely-detailed 19th century face designed for coated paper
    on a laid rag stock, in the manner of 17th century printing.\" Blame the perpetrator,
    not the typeface. It might be that there's no good reason to print Emigre's Journal,
    or many other types, by letterpress.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2007-11-19 18:58:05'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: 'I think Papyrus is a true testament to the ingenuity and modern ways of thinking
    of the ancient Egyptians who designed it. '
  created: '2007-11-19 19:31:48'
- author:
    name: Small Caps
    picture: 112615
  body: This list of bad typefaces is getting long! And once upon a time I used to
    be the first to sniff haughtily whenever the word Mistral was mentioned. That
    is, until I stumbled across some quite nice stuff back from the 1950's. Take a
    look at this picture. I think Mistral works quite well with these colours.This
    thread shows how easy it is to make a list with all the bad typefaces. Maybe we
    should start another with the best ones instead? Clarendon is my all time favorite.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Mistral_4089.jpg]
  created: '2007-11-19 20:15:27'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I think that mistral is good. But from what I\u2019ve read lately, it\u2019s
    also a pretty popular font with cover designers of hard-core pornography, so it
    can have some pretty\u2026um\u2026intense associations."
  created: '2007-11-19 20:39:09'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "No offense, but I don't like <em>Gill Sans</em> too.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-19 22:14:11'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Mistral suffered from MASSIVE overuse at one time.\r\n\r\nThis type of thread
    is so subjective."
  created: '2007-11-19 22:22:38'
- author:
    name: catastrophe
    picture: 111719
  body: "papyrus, comic sans, and curls mt all make me gag. \r\n\r\ni believe they
    are just abused and misused..and polluting the atmosphere!! \r\n\r\npapyrus should
    be banned from hair/beauty salon identities, comic sans should be banned from
    anything but maybe...maaaaybe comics (BUT even in comics i still find it annoying),
    and curls mt...ugh.\r\n\r\nim thinkin a lot of opinions on typefaces are personal
    prefs. \r\n\r\nthats my little input. regardless, as a designer...we're always
    type nazis!"
  created: '2007-11-20 01:09:56'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Like that character from Seinfeld whenever I see Papyrus I can't help but
    scream \"<A HREF=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serenity_%28film%29\">Serenity</A>
    Now!\" Maybe I should check in here\u2026 http://www.serenityspaconroe.com/ "
  created: '2007-11-20 02:28:27'
- author:
    name: TomN-CA
    picture: 112736
  body: "Not so much a typeface, but I think the futura-style lowercase 'a' is kind
    of ugly, and it's not that uncommon in ads and logos I see daily.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-20 02:31:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: I like the [[http://www.southmoonunder.com/bvc/reston_495.html|signs at this
    local place]] better than the soulless logo.
  created: '2007-11-20 02:36:35'
- author:
    name: JABZOOG
    picture: 111689
  body: "How about Sand?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-20 02:52:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: If over-exposure is any measure, how y'all feelin 'bout Super Duty :-)?
  created: '2007-11-20 04:13:08'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: You read my mind.
  created: '2007-11-20 04:22:45'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Nick\r\n\r\n\"Would you attempt to print a finely-detailed 19th century face
    designed for coated paper on a laid rag stock, in the manner of 17th century printing?\"\r\n\r\nYou
    are kidding, right? This is the 21st century. All type exists concurrently. Some
    works, some doesn't.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2007-11-20 05:54:16'
- author:
    name: amv
  body: "I don't think Arial is getting nearly enough attention. I think that when
    you factor in the impact a given typeface has had on the world, Arial is by far
    the worst thing to ever happen to typography.\r\n\r\nOn a purely technical level,
    Arial is horrendous. Glyphs like the capital C and the lowercase g are so outrageously
    lumpy and malformed it honestly looks like the product of someone working through
    his first or second week of experience with Bezier tools. Calling it \"amateur\"
    is a genuine understatement as even most amateurs would presumably have the dignity
    to keep such terribly drawn glyphs from being released.\r\n\r\nIf I could sum
    up my criticism of the face, it's that ultimately, it suffers from a shocking
    lack of craftsmanship.\r\n\r\nI've always seen Arial as much more a clone of Univers
    than Helvetica (compare the 1, the lowercase t, the capital G and even the R--
    that god awful R-- to some extent, among many other examples). But when compared
    to either of these two fine works, Arial's flaws are even more apparent. Helvetica
    and Univers, regardless of your subjective take on them, both offer stable balance
    and details. The letters fit together nicely and the curves within each glyph
    look intentionally placed by a qualified designer. Arial has none of these qualities;
    words and sentences look cobbled together, stroke thickness seems to bend and
    warp, and it's wonky curves careen along their paths like bumper cars.\r\n\r\nIn
    my opinion, one of the worst aspects of its design is the way horizontal edges
    don't run parallel to the baseline. For an example of how this can be done right,
    look at something like Akzidenz Grotesk or Franklin Gothic. These fonts use this
    characteristic create a slightly less formal, cheerier atmosphere than something
    like Univers or Helvetica might. But in the case of Arial, unlike these far superior
    fonts, it looks like a mistake rather than an intentional aspect of the design.\r\n\r\nNowadays,
    though, the worst part about Arial is it's nightmarish ubiquity. Sometimes I feel
    like it's closing in on me, like something out of the Twilight Zone. It really
    does appear to vastly outnumber the use of Helvetica on local signage around shopping
    centers and mom-and-pop shops (at least here in Northern California). Signs like
    these tend to be awful from the start, often stretched and compressed in non-uniform
    ways or kerned recklessly (if at all). But it's insult to injury when Arial is
    used instead of a standby like Helvetica, as it combines an already bad design
    with an even worse typeface.\r\n\r\nFar more concerning, however, is its sudden
    prevalence in serious media, such as feature films and television, by designers
    who should honestly know better. Look at the logo for the show Ugly Betty; unless
    they were trying to make some kind of typographical joke that plays on the show's
    title, what could they have possibly been thinking? I remember seeing it in the
    trailer for the movie Over the Hedge, in the on-screen graphics for the mock newscasts
    in V for Vendetta, and even the TITLES and end credits in Michael Clayton for
    god's sake. What kind of bizarro world is this?\r\n\r\nAnyway, don't interpret
    my overuse of dramatic adjectives as being tongue-in-cheek; for all my whining,
    I really do mean it when I say Arial is the worst thing to happen to typography.
    Comic Sans doesn't even compare-- it may not be the world's greatest art, but
    it's a gimmicky font that was never trying to be anything more than that. Arial,
    with the help of Windows, has unfortunately presented itself to the world as a
    serious alternative to some of the pillars of typography, when it's little more
    than an insult in my opinion.\r\n\r\nPhew! Glad I finally let that out!"
  created: '2007-11-20 06:25:04'
- author:
    name: baris.sehri
  body: fuckin comic sans
  created: '2007-11-20 09:06:19'
- author:
    name: mark eikema
  body: "Let's make a list. Put your name behind at most three typefaces or add a
    font that is not yet listed.\r\n\r\nRotis | mark eikema + ...\r\nTrebuchet | mark
    eikema + ...\r\nZapfino | mark eikema + ..."
  created: '2007-11-20 11:51:40'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "Grrrrrrr!!\r\nYou hate Zapfino_? \r\n\r\n:P"
  created: '2007-11-20 12:59:49'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: "How about the worst glyphs of all times? I'll start with the 'g' in interstate.
    ruins the whole typeface for me.\r\n\r\n\r\n.........................................................\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bisondesign.no\">Bison Design</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myspace.com/sponnorway\">Sp\xF6n</a>\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-20 15:00:28'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I hate Zapfino too.
  created: '2007-11-20 15:59:14'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Me three on Zapfino. There was a time when I thought it was just badly used,
    but now that I\u2019ve explored a lot a script faces, I think Zapfino is just
    too wild to be a good typeface. I could see that style of handwriting working
    really well when it\u2019s actually written, but there\u2019s a nasty dissonance
    created by that kind of expert calligraphy being rendered digitally."
  created: '2007-11-20 16:04:16'
- author:
    name: joe graham_typespec
    picture: 110322
  body: "Mistral makes an appearance in our new \"Used and Abused\" section:\r\n[[http://www.type.co.uk/index.php?p=Used]]\r\n\r\nType
    Eating Itself?"
  created: '2007-11-20 18:22:05'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'Joe, that one reminds me of all the idiots out there who insist on using
    Avant Garde to typeset the phrase avant garde. I once saw someone try setting
    all the headings in a book in Avant Garde just because a chapter title contained
    the phrase. That one really made me want to scream. '
  created: '2007-11-20 18:28:37'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Joe, that one reminds me of all the idiots out there who insist on using
    Avant Garde to typeset the phrase avant garde. \r\n\r\nSuch madness continues
    to this day - can you believe the people responsible for the Helvetica movie packaging
    used Helvetica - use some imagination per-lese! At least Cooper Tires had the
    good sense to ditch Cooper Black after fifty years\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2007-11-20 19:31:01'
- author:
    name: sayerhs
    picture: 112341
  body: "beauty is in the eyes of the beholder\r\n\r\nAhem, i notice that the person
    who initiated this thread seems to have gone into oblivion. Hanabot, what IS your
    project about, im curious.\r\n\r\n:P\r\n\r\nshreyas"
  created: '2007-11-20 21:12:46'
- author:
    name: JCSalomon
    picture: 128147
  body: "\u2003Sii:\u2002The <em>Serenity</em> logo isn't exactly small-caps Papyrus
    but looks something similar\u2014not that Papyrus has small capitals.\u2002(The
    <em>E</em> is a give-away, plus it's differently distressed.)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/serenity
    movie logo_5418.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/serenity ship logo_3908.png]\r\n\u2003Researching
    this logo was the first time I'd heard of Papyrus.\u2002And hey, if it wasn't
    so overused Papyrus would be quite a decent font for some specific uses.\r\n\r\n\u2014Joel"
  created: '2007-11-20 23:30:11'
- author:
    name: nikimelon
    picture: 112826
  body: "comic sans\r\nmyriad\r\ntimes new roman (i'm sorry. i hate it. case closed.)\r\n\r\n\r\nNiki!"
  created: '2007-11-21 01:18:55'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: Russell, it's the ends of curved strokes like in a, s, c. Instead of terminating
    approximately perpendicular to the stroke like most other sans, or cutting horizontally
    like Helvetica, Arial compromises and cuts them just slightly <em>off</em>-horizontal.
  created: '2007-11-21 03:15:17'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "Arial looks way better on the internet than helvetica does.\r\n\r\nTHERE
    I SAID IT!"
  created: '2007-11-21 03:23:35'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "gotcha, cerulean.\r\n\r\nHaleyFiege ,<em>\"Arial looks way better on the
    internet than helvetica does.\"</em>\r\n... and your point is? :-)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nR\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-21 03:39:30'
- author:
    name: catastrophe
    picture: 111719
  body: "sii: thanks...i just threw up looking at that website. papyrus should be
    banned. >:(\r\n\r\n\r\nand even if arial does look better on the internet, doesn't
    make the typeface better than helvetica! \r\n\r\n\r\nthis forum is great. ..\r\n "
  created: '2007-11-21 04:35:46'
- author:
    name: catastrophe
    picture: 111719
  body: "poor connare.  \r\n\r\n\"Comic Sans was NOT designed as a typeface but as
    a solution to a problem with the often overlooked part of a computer program's
    interface, the typeface used to communicate the message.\r\n\r\nThere was no intention
    to include the font in other applications other than those designed for children
    when I designed Comic Sans. The inspiration came at the shock of seeing Times
    New Roman used in an inappropriate way.\" -Connare\r\n\r\n\r\nnot that i'm justifying
    comic sans...because regardless it still makes me gag. :\\    \r\n\r\nused and
    inappropriately abused typeface... "
  created: '2007-11-21 04:42:50'
- author:
    name: brien
  body: Another vote for Comic Sans... it's terrible. Agree about Arial, as well.
    Chicago was terrible in it's day, too.
  created: '2007-11-21 07:39:14'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "*SLIGHTLY OFF TOPIC MODE ON*\r\n\r\nFunny some mention Myriad here.\r\n\r\nI
    just come back from letypographe.com, a french forum run by Jean-Francois Porchez
    (and others fine typographers), where I've been bashed *big time* for saying that
    Myriad owes a lot (i mean A LOT) to Frutiger.\r\n\r\nI've been told there that
    Myriad bears the influence of Sumner Stone, that it is way more \"calligraphic\"...
    All things I don't contest, but still... No Frutiger, no Myriad, am I alone to
    think that way?\r\n\r\nI mean, if you read the official documentation of Avenir,
    for example, Futura is mentioned as inspiration, things are clear. But Adobe's
    staff never aknowledged Frutiger to be at the origin of Myriad.\r\n\r\n*SLIGHTLY
    OFF TOPIC MODE OFF*\r\n\r\nJust to say that I'm not crazy about Myriad either
    :-)\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2007-11-21 08:03:44'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "one more thing\r\n\r\nI live in Istanbul, and the poorness of typographic
    culture in the last 30 years is making any typophile suffering on an every day
    basis, when looking at the shops, packagings and advertisements (although the
    trend is slowly changing since 2-3 years thanks to people like, huh, me, among
    a few others). You think I'm kidding? Do you know how many books are available,
    in turkish language, about typography? ONE. It was released earlier this year,
    and it's not very good. There is a new magazine since one and a half year which
    talks about type in a quite nice and interesting way, and people are beginning
    to open to type culture...\r\n\r\n... but still, most of the time, we have to
    say hello to some absolutely horrid typefaces, composed in huge sizes and ugly
    colors. So, let me add to the list the ones I see very often here:\r\n\r\n- Black
    Chancery\r\n- University Roman\r\n- Stop\r\n- Revue\r\n- Flash / Slager\r\n- Balloon\r\n\r\n...
    Sorry I can't continue I feel sick.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2007-11-21 08:16:47'
- author:
    name: ryanholmes
  body: "Myriad is not Frutiger; look at the M for example. Yes they are similar,
    yes the look and feel are close. But I can say the same thing about dozens of
    other typeface comparisons.\r\n\r\nAnd as far as that goes, you can make the case
    that nearly ALL of the popular, contemporary, corporate-style humanist sans out
    there today are merely derivative of good old Frutiger and Officina Sans.\r\n\r\nTypefaces
    I hate? I despise anything with a \"Benguiat\" in its name. The appeal of Bank
    Gothic totally escapes me. Most script faces are just plain annoying.  If one
    more Windows user sends me a file formatted in Trebuchet, I may hurt someone.
    And I loathe Arial with every fiber of my being.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-21 08:59:24'
- author:
    name: alchion
    picture: 110619
  body: "I bought Papyrus back in mid 90's it is a great design, but so over used
    it has zero value these days. \r\nI mention this because really I think anything
    that is overused should be avoided (The same goes for\r\nstock photography). One
    reason I like expensive typefaces, is because most designers do not get them,\r\nand
    most clients look for less expensive solutions as well. Individuality is where
    it is at. "
  created: '2007-11-21 09:11:42'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: " \r\namv,\r\n\r\nI don't dispute your assesment of Arial at all, but I went
    looking for \"<em>the way horizontal edges don\u2019t run parallel to the baseline.</em>\"
    and could not see it. On the Arial fonts that come loaded on my work PC all seem
    parallel to the base line. (I zoomed in really close in wire frame) Perhaps you
    can explain.\r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2007-11-21 12:19:26'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "A little off topic but an interesting interactive on <a href=\"http://www.engagestudio.com/helvetica/\">Arial
    Vs. Helvetica.</a>\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-21 12:47:49'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t dispute your assesment of Arial at all, but I went looking
    for \u201Cthe way horizontal edges don\u2019t run parallel to the baseline.\u201D
    and could not see it.</em>\r\nLook at the C."
  created: '2007-11-21 13:39:38'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "I think I'm preferring satya's off topic.\r\n\r\nHave you taken the Arial
    or Helvetica quiz yet?\r\nhttp://www.iliveonyourvisits.com/helvetica/\r\n\r\nor
    read how to spot Arial?\r\nhttp://www.ms-studio.com/articlesarialsid.html\r\n\r\nMy
    favorite was from France - and I can't find it now. I think it was Tophy52 who
    actually placed one over the other and made little indications as to the basic
    differences.\r\n\r\n****************\r\n\r\nRyan - \r\n\r\nYes in name, Myriad
    is not Frutiger - but oh my --- there is no doubt where they stole their design.
    This one has been through the courts, and I understand it was settled.\r\n\r\nIt
    may be one of those \"American\" type laws - change three characters - and voila
    -- a new typeface is born. \r\n\r\nBTW - that is what use to happen between the
    foundries... in days of cold and hot type...."
  created: '2007-11-21 14:01:42'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>I just come back from letypographe.com, a french forum run by Jean-Francois
    Porchez (and others fine typographers), where I\u2019ve been bashed *big time*
    for saying that Myriad owes a lot (i mean A LOT) to Frutiger. </em>\r\n\r\nThere
    has been an extensive discussion on that subject on this forum as well, you can
    find it [[http://www.typophile.com/node/36209|here]]. I'm not sure on which page
    it starts about myriad/frutiger though. But I thought you might be interested.
    :)\r\n(and so that the discussion isn't done all over again, just like <em>this</em>
    thread itself) ;)"
  created: '2007-11-21 14:26:32'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Jackie:\r\n\r\nMy favorite was from France - and I can\u2019t find it now.
    I think it was Tophy52 who actually placed one over the other and made little
    indications as to the basic differences.\r\n\r\n>> you can find it in the first
    pages of \"Helvetica, Homage to a typeface\" by Lars Muller. and it is, indeed,
    amazing.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2007-11-21 15:06:07'
- author:
    name: Andy Martin
    picture: 111412
  body: "Comic Sans\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-21 22:32:45'
- author:
    name: vanina
    picture: 113631
  body: "Oh yeah, Myriad owes a lot to Frutiger. The cap C, for example, the leg of
    the R \u2014\_you're definitely not alone on this. Myriad can actually be nice
    if used very, very minimally and calmly, though I don't think I'd ever choose
    it. \r\n\r\nBtw David, I'm Bulgarian \u2014\_komshi! And good thing that type
    books are more like picture books, right? Turks AND Bulgarians can love them.
    \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-21 22:56:23'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: 'My point is that both arial and helvetica are good for different things.
    So why all the hate? '
  created: '2007-11-21 23:56:25'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "vanina:\r\n\r\nI'm sure turks can love typo books, whatever they may look
    like... then, why nobody's writing one? Is there a lot of typo books in Bulgaria?\r\n\r\nHaley,
    and some others:\r\n\r\nIn my own opinion, Arial is good for nothing. I've seen
    it WAY too much on quickly designed and printed stuff everywhere, right out of
    MS Word or MS Publisher or MS Whatever. It's been polluting the whole environment,
    worse than petrol in the ocean. You might dislike Helvetica for various reasons,
    but its design is so much better than Arial. I've been a typo teacher, and you
    would be AMAZED by the amount of students who just can't make the difference between
    Arial and Helvetica. This is a disgrace... I mean, quality alternatives for Helvetica,
    if needed, are available: Univers, Akzidenz Grotesk, Folio, etc. But Arial...
    Whatever you say, as far as I'm concerned, it will always be a cheap type commissioned
    by a big corporate in order to not pay the rights to use Helvetica. Someone said
    up there that Nicholas Robin is a much better type designer than Max Miedinger:
    if so, He would have the ethics to not make Arial the way it was done. I'm sure
    Vincent Connarre is a great guy too, but nevertheless He greatly contributed to
    the poorness of taste in the worldwide typographic environment with his freak
    creation Comic Sans.\r\n\r\nUh, whatever, peace and love :-)\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2007-11-22 08:37:01'
- author:
    name: SparkyType
    picture: 113302
  body: "We could solve this one by doing a FontLab blend on 2 of the worst to make
    the ultimate horrible font:\r\n\r\nComic Sand"
  created: '2007-11-22 10:48:46'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Alex: i agree with every criticism of Arial. It is far too ugly to be used
    in seriousness. Thank you for expressing exactly what is wrong with it! :) \r\nDoesn't
    Century Gothic suffer from the same problem of non-horizontal stroke endings and
    being a cheap rip-off of Avant Garde?\r\nThere must be a thread about \"what are
    the best-designed/best used typefaces and nicest typography?\" somewhere, i just
    need to find it...\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-22 12:47:30'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "it could be interesting to launch a thread \"which typefaces, according to
    you, marked a turning point in type history\"?\r\n\r\nexample: many people consider
    optima a turning point for it was the first flare humanistic sans serif to achieve
    a huge success, but for me, stellar was the true first one, 20 years before, even
    if it didnt meet any success at that time because of the kabel / futura wave.\r\n\r\nis
    that a good idea? or is it boring?\r\n\r\n(you can be honest, i'm very strong)\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2007-11-22 14:21:11'
- author:
    name: TomN-CA
    picture: 112736
  body: "Throw in Papyrus into the Sand/Comic mix...\r\nCall it 'Beachhouse'\r\n\r\nAlthough
    an entirey different type of --house also comes to mind."
  created: '2007-11-22 15:56:32'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "All this bashing aside \u2014 Papyrus is rather clever. Look at the way these
    little notches hold up, even when the type is blown up to meters high. It's a
    very wellmade font.\r\n\r\n(And yes, I have used it \u2014 once, for a menu, a
    long time ago\u2026)\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2007-11-22 20:01:20'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "1. If comic sans was shite it would not be seen, remembered or mentioned
    here. You would forget it. But you can't so, it rules. It's used in Italy so much
    and if it were crap it would be forgot but you mention it and see it a lot. \r\n\r\n2.
    my surname is Irish and it is the name of a Celtic god and it is not French. so
    Allez-vous faire foutre! \r\n\r\np.s. I dare you to make a font as used as much
    at comic sans! There are hundreds of fonts on a computer, but they still pick
    it. So make one they use more or mention it, I dare you. \r\n\r\n\\/\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2007-11-22 22:03:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I hope it made you wealthy Vince, for all the abuse you suffer for it!
  created: '2007-11-22 22:42:13'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Isn't it rather that Papyrus is usually poorly chosen rather than being a
    badly-designed font? I'm surprised nobody has mentioned American Uncial which
    seems to suffer from both these problems.\r\nBlack Chancery has never made sense
    to me."
  created: '2007-11-23 13:11:10'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "Base02\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/base_02_5044.jpg]"
  created: '2007-11-23 13:25:06'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: Arial is the perfect web font for squishing massive amounts of legal copy
    into small spaces. I don't care how badly it was designed, it keeps the legal
    department off my back, so thank you Arial designers. I salute you!
  created: '2007-11-23 18:50:28'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "<blockquote><em> If comic sans was shite it would not be seen, remembered
    or mentioned here. You would forget it. But you can\u2019t so, it rules. </em></blockquote>\r\n\r\nVince
    - I'm surprised that you are still trying to make the case that your typeface
    is popular due to its design. Comic Sans doesn't deserve all the ribbing it gets,
    but the cold harsh truth is: if Comic Sans wasn't bundled with Windows we wouldn't
    be talking about it and I doubt anyone would be using it. "
  created: '2007-11-23 20:03:40'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "+1 for Vince.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-23 22:26:30'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Hah, Papyrus has been elevated to extreme hights, considering its use by
    BBC's Newsnight:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Papyrus_6555.gif]\r\n\r\n.
    . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-23 22:43:13'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Wow...that may be the most inappropriate use of Papyrus, ever.\r\n\r\nDoes
    anybody else think that designers would be a lot better at picking fonts if design
    schools barred the use of any font that ships with a computer\u2019s OS or Adobe
    Creative Suite? Then again, that might just lead all the people who use Futura
    for everything to start getting all of their fonts from DaFont."
  created: '2007-11-23 23:08:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>if Comic Sans wasn\u2019t bundled with Windows we wouldn\u2019t be talking
    about it and I doubt anyone would be using it.</em>\r\n\r\nBut just suppose, what
    would they be using instead?"
  created: '2007-11-23 23:09:38'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "There are lot many folks out there using Comic Sans for the programming too.
    May be cause happy code generally has fewer bugs ;-) \r\n"
  created: '2007-11-23 23:40:33'
- author:
    name: vanina
    picture: 113631
  body: "Speaking of terrible typefaces, when I got a G5 last year, I went through
    the Fonts folder and took out all that hideous stuff, type I'd never use and all
    the Chinese characters that for some reason I'm forced to always have there...
    Lo and behold,\_the computer would not start up. I had to have it repaired, and
    the technician wagged a finger at me and told me to leave the default font set
    alone. I learned my lesson. "
  created: '2007-11-23 23:51:43'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Hey Vince, (if it's actually you),\r\n\r\n1. Comic Sans doesn't rule. Comis
    Sans sucks. Big time. The real Vincent Connare knows enough about type to know
    that's the truth. It is successful for 2 very basic reasons: it was, as mentionned
    above, bundled with Windows; and 95% of the computer users in the whole world
    have a total lack of good taste, not only computer or font related but in general.
    Good taste comes with education and some given skills or hunger for artistic /
    aesthetic self improvement, which most of the world is lacking, that's a pity
    but that's the truth. Most of these people are very nice, very sweet, totally
    harmless and inoffensive, my own sister prints her reports in Comic Sans. She
    also wears clothes which make my eyes bleed.\r\n\r\n2. I know your surname is
    not french, I was making a joke, and you are pretty rude out there, you actually
    deserve your name. Next time you visit france or quebec, make sure to spell your
    celtic god name out loud, the result will make my revenge.\r\n\r\np.s. anyone
    who creates a type in a vague comic book style and gives it out with windows will
    blow your rates away and send you back to oblivion, my friend. check the faces
    at blambot.com: they are in the same spirit with comic sans, though 100 times
    better. If you had designed these ones, the whole world would feel better. you
    once said that comic sans was never designed to make it on windows and be spread
    that much, and you felt sorry for that. at that time, i liked you. now you are
    very proud to state that mister everyone is picking your font over the other ones,
    which makes your design awesome. I don't hate you... no, I just have some pity.\r\n\r\nBut
    anyway, you are not him, right?, I mean, the real vince connare would not be that
    much rudely childish, right?\r\n\r\nright?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-24 00:45:42'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "no one has mentioned it yet, but.... Jokerman. (There! Our work here is done.)\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2007-11-24 00:49:50'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Comis Sans sucks. Big time. \r\n\r\nDavid, perhaps you can point us to some
    of your work so we can critique it too.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-24 01:37:22'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Simon:\r\n\r\nof course, even though these works are quite old now for i
    dont have time to update my web, you can go and take a look at www.davidrault.com.
    keep 2 things in mind though: i am not a typographer, so you wont find any typefaces
    there (so far), and my harsh comment on comic sans was also fueled by what vince
    told me in the previous post, which litterally means \"go f*** yourself\" in english.
    otherwise i'd be bad, but not that bad. but the hell with it, comic sans sucks,
    i can say it in any language if you want, if i can't say what i think here, i
    can say it nowhere. try not to take it personally every time someone says something
    bad about microsoft related things.\r\n\r\nthis being said, feel free to criticize
    anything you see. too bad i can not post my latest and nicest jobs, for these
    are packaging jobs and as long as the customer didnt give it a go and the didnt
    hit the shelves, i cant put them online... i will try to put some, though, to
    actually get some critics. some of my stuff suck big time too, i know it, i'm
    not an artist, i have to please some stupid customers.\r\n\r\ncheers\r\ndr"
  created: '2007-11-24 08:22:34'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "David R:\r\nYou don't get it, do you? This entire thread has been repeated
    over and over and over again for the past decade, whether here on Typophile or
    otherwise. Vince has been defending his tiny little font for years. \r\n\r\nNo
    wonder he's got a little vitriol in him, because people constantly rag on his
    little typeface that <em>just so happened</em> to be in the right place at the
    right time."
  created: '2007-11-24 22:00:43'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: This whole Comic Sans case, discussion and points of view of parties involved
    has some similarity with a scenario when a family finds out that some years ago
    their brother-in-law was an actor in a poor erotic movie which the distribution
    company unexpectedly made widespread available and which then became surprisingly
    popular with the mainstream audience...
  created: '2007-11-26 12:04:58'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I find it most interesting that the most vilified fonts fall into the categories
    of rip-offs, and \"write-offs.\" Enough about rip-offs, and inappropriate use
    aside, what make Mistral, Comic Sans, Sand and Papyrus so hateful, even to ones
    who like all fonts, is that we don't like to them scaleable. It disturbs me to
    try and make a written font for more than a single size, so I'm guessing that
    it disturbs us when a single outline is used to represent what we expect to be
    a range of proportions and a variety of edge qualities. Digital outlines at their
    worst, bringing out the worst in typophiles, I'd say.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-26 15:31:46'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I have a theory about all this: Some typefaces are novice magnets.\r\n\r\nTo
    the average person, most fonts look more or less the same. But, if a typeface
    has a strong flavor, it calls attention to itself. It's easy to recognize and
    makes people feel like they know something about fonts when they recognize it.
    And it looks \"special\" compared to normal (i.e., boring) fonts, so using it
    makes their documents look \"special.\"\r\n\r\nTo the experienced designer, such
    typefaces have too much flavor, call too much attention to themselves, not to
    mention the fact that often carry the baggage of being associated with amateur
    design."
  created: '2007-11-26 15:40:07'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Well said, Mark. That is definitely a factor. That and the name -- the font
    menu is often the first a novice's first introduction to a typeface, so the name
    leaves a big impression.
  created: '2007-11-26 15:44:23'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Mark, I agree, but I think that for some people it\u2019s also force of habit.
    For a long time Arial and Times New Roman were the only decent fonts many people
    had on their desktop machines, so we just got used to them. Over time better fonts
    have been phased in, but nobody is telling people \u201Cstop using crap fonts
    and start using Palatino!\u201D Maybe Simon could subtly trick people into using
    better fonts by getting Microsoft to push all those great new fonts as a selling
    point for Vista and Office 2007."
  created: '2007-11-26 15:57:28'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>That and the name \u2014 the font menu is often the first a novice\u2019s
    first introduction to a typeface, so the name leaves a big impression.</em>\r\n\r\nEven
    the letter it starts with. I would hypothesize that in the infinite parallel universes
    that have word processing programs with alphabetically arranged font menus, the
    first font with \"flavor\" in the list is always overused by novices and disdained
    by typophiles. "
  created: '2007-11-26 16:03:03'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "I like Simonson's \"novice magnets\" theory, it was true for me (and still
    it is sometimes).\r\nThis thread is so long that I cannot see Super Duty anymore."
  created: '2007-11-26 16:33:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think I will put some Novice Magnets on my refrigerator:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-11-26 18:08:35'
- author:
    name: ryanholmes
  body: "I just finished a project where the customer demands the proposal be submitted
    \"in 12 point standard Times New Roman, double-spaced, with wide margins. The
    occasional use of Arial for highlighting is acceptable.\"\r\n\r\nI hate these
    things on so many levels it defies description. From brute force trauma, I hate
    Times New Roman and Arial.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-26 18:30:47'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: About 10 years ago, T602 was still a very popular text editor in Czech Republic
    and Slovakia. You would love even Arial if you would see a myriad of business
    documents set in Avant Garde which was the default font in Windows version of
    that software (and the first in its list of fonts).
  created: '2007-11-26 19:51:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "David, what you say about scalability may also apply to Arial.\r\nIt seems
    to be the details that people object to, which aren't really apparent at text
    size.\r\n\r\nTimes, however, although a single master, is the most serviceable
    of \"web\" serif faces at larger sizes, as the sharp serifs do give it some measure
    of finesse."
  created: '2007-11-26 21:15:12'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: You like it over Georgia? How can anyone like anything over Georgia for the
    web?
  created: '2007-11-28 22:26:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GeoTim_5714.jpg]\r\n\r\nDon't you find
    Georgia a bit clunky at headline size?\r\nIt's OK if you want a robust effect,
    but really, Miller Display is the \"big\" version of this design."
  created: '2007-11-28 23:11:39'
- author:
    name: elizabeth_355
    picture: 112087
  body: I like the use of Comic Sans in the Windows version of "The Sims" ... fits
    the mood very well.
  created: '2007-11-29 00:43:43'
- author:
    name: James Clough
  body: "Recently I came across a site on Gutenberg in Comic sans. But will you all
    excuse me if I waffle on a bit about a typeface alluded to earlier in this discussion?
    Is that allowed?\r\n\r\nOn page 1 it was nice to see someone speak up for Excoffon's
    masterpiece Mistral. Good for you Mr Small caps (or Ms small caps if you are a
    woman... personally I hate the 'politically correct' Ms, but I'm not a woman...).
    Excoffon designed this type for the Olive foundry's clients who were mostly small
    letterpress printers in France and francophone countries still setting type by
    hand. He certainly didn't design Mistral for graphic designers (who were fairly
    thin on the ground in Europe in the fifties). In fact Mistral has always been
    a favouite of 'popular graphics'. Serious graphic designers wouldn't touch it
    with a barge pole. Nevertheless, even us sophisticated designers should be able
    to appreciate that much type which dwells firmly within popular graphics is worthy
    of our appreciation (and perhaps devotion) even though we would never use it.
    Look at Novarese's superb STOP. I have an archive of about a 150 photos of signs,
    logos and whatnot in STOP (not to mention Mistral). But let's get back to Mistral
    again for a moment. John Dreyfus wrote a highly appreciative piece on Mistral
    in the Penrose annual of 1956. For many years it was the only face available that
    gave a convincing idea of quickly written spontaneous handwriting. Obviously Mistral
    no longer represents the handwriting of today but it is still the most popular
    of all the 'handwriting' typefaces or, to use a more colourful expression, 'shopping
    list' typefaces that have sprung up since the digital revolution: I mean faces
    that don't show off a calligrapher's handwriting, but are able to give an impression
    of decent handwriting of the sort we might do for a shopping list. But Mistral
    is far more than just a decent imitation of handwriting. In the game of bluff
    and deception that is implicit in all 'shopping list' faces, Excoffon plays a
    masterful hand. Of course... designers might prefer real handwriting to fake handwriting
    but that's another story.\r\n\r\nThe version of Mistral that was (or maybe still
    is) installed in Bill Gates' systems is a real abomination and a horrid travesty
    of Excoffon's work. ITC put out a light version of Mistral designed by Phil Grimshaw
    in 1997 (complete with small caps and stacks of ligs). This was another masterpiece
    and a very fitting tribute to Excoffon. But it seems to have been a commercial
    fiasco probably because popular graphics is \u2014 quite understandably \u2014
    not interested in paying for fonts.\r\n\r\nSmall caps admires the colourful brochure
    for Mistral, and so do I. Excoffon himself designed other beautiful handouts for
    his faces. And this is another point worth emphasizing. Don't you all think that
    it is time for an exhibition of typefounders advertisments? There's much more
    to be said of Mistral (and of course of its designer too), but I'll stop here
    to avoid an impulse to write a whole article. \r\n\r\nI'll finish up by returning
    to the original subject of this discussion 'The worst typefaces'. Someone mentioned
    ROTIS and I thoroughly agree. Why is ROTIS such an awful face? Because it is a
    hybrid. Upstairs it tries to be 19th century and downstairs it's Renaissance.
    I can't stand it.\r\n\r\nSorry for being so long winded and I apologise for having
    written too much about one of my favourites rather than the contrary.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-30 17:33:02'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "James:\r\n\r\nSpatium Magazine and the TYPOSITION. studio from Offenbach
    Germany organized an exhibition of type specimens from the last 100 years just
    earlier this year. It was shown at both German National Libraries\u2014first in
    Frankfurt am Main, then in Leipzig\u2014and was very beautiful. "
  created: '2007-11-30 18:57:54'
- author:
    name: James Clough
  body: "\r\nThanks Dan for this useful piece of information, although it is sad to
    be reminded of how badly informed I often seem to be. Presuming you have a copy
    of the catalogue, is there any e-mail or other kind of address I can contact for
    a copy?"
  created: '2007-12-01 08:41:54'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "There wasn't a catalogue, I'm sorry to say. But the fifth issue of Spatium
    magazine (the issue is bi-lingual) is close \u2013 <a href=\"http://shop.spatium-magazin.de/shop/USER_ARTIKEL_HANDLING_AUFRUF.php?darstellen=1&Kategorie_ID=30&PEPPERSESS=64ce79b9c3a9ecd9e4be8ddf7bdddb67&kat_last=30&kat_aktiv=30\">spatium
    #5</a>\r\n\r\nYou can also enjoy these images on spatium's blog \u2013\r\n\r\n<strong>Frankfurt</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.spatium-magazin.de/\xBBscala-bembo-times-und-dolly\xAB/782.php\">http://www.spatium-magazin.de/\xBBscala-bembo-times-und-dolly\xAB/782.php</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.spatium-magazin.de/\xBBscala-bembo-times-und-dolly\xAB-making-of-2-2/873.php\">http://www.spatium-magazin.de/\xBBscala-bembo-times-und-dolly\xAB-making-of-2-2/873.php</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.spatium-magazin.de/\xBBscala-bembo-times-und-dolly\xAB-making-of-3/886.php\">http://www.spatium-magazin.de/\xBBscala-bembo-times-und-dolly\xAB-making-of-3/886.php</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.spatium-magazin.de/\xBBscala-bembo-times-und-dolly\xAB-making-of-4-\u2013-blinde-texte/894.php\">http://www.spatium-magazin.de/\xBBscala-bembo-times-und-dolly\xAB-making-of-4-\u2013-blinde-texte/894.php</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.spatium-magazin.de/\xBBscala-bembo-times-und-dolly\xAB-musterspaziergang/924.php\">http://www.spatium-magazin.de/\xBBscala-bembo-times-und-dolly\xAB-musterspaziergang/924.php</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.spatium-magazin.de/\xBBscala-bembo-times-und-dolly\xAB-musterspaziergang-impressionen/932.php\">http://www.spatium-magazin.de/\xBBscala-bembo-times-und-dolly\xAB-musterspaziergang-impressionen/932.php</a>\r\n\r\n<strong>Leipzig</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.spatium-magazin.de/1079/1079.php\">http://www.spatium-magazin.de/1079/1079.php</a>\r\n<a
    hef=\"http://www.spatium-magazin.de/ausstellungseroffnung-\xBBscala-bembo-times-und-dolly\xAB-in-leipzig/1088.php\">http://www.spatium-magazin.de/ausstellungseroffnung-\xBBscala-bembo-times-und-dolly\xAB-in-leipzig/1088.php</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.spatium-magazin.de/vortrag-\xBBschriftmuster-\u2013-einblicke-in-entstehung-wandel-und-asthetik\xAB-am-25-oktober/1145.php\">http://www.spatium-magazin.de/vortrag-\xBBschriftmuster-\u2013-einblicke-in-entstehung-wandel-und-asthetik\xAB-am-25-oktober/1145.php</a>"
  created: '2007-12-01 09:49:08'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Regarding being informed, James, if you & the folks happen to organize something
    like that in Milan, please let me know, I'll try to bring my students & I there,
    thanks very much.
  created: '2007-12-01 10:20:44'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: p.s. Just saw the new sponsored font, I fell from the chair.
  created: '2007-12-01 10:23:28'
- author:
    name: James Clough
  body: "\r\nCaro Alessandro.\r\n\r\nNice to hear from you! Three weeks ago we had
    a Sunday morning 'BICICLETTERING' in Milan. About thirty type and lettering maniacs
    on their bikes looking at Roman, medieval and Renaissance inscriptions, Cresci's
    inscription on the Biblioteca Ambrosiana, plus 19th and 20th century inscriptions
    and shop signs. Next time I hope you'll be with us."
  created: '2007-12-01 11:00:47'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Thanks, James, nice to hear from you, too.\r\nThat \"Biciclettering\" sounds
    socially terrific, I didn't know about that at all.\r\nDo you have any pictures
    posted ?"
  created: '2007-12-01 12:03:22'
- author:
    name: "Gr\xE4fenberg"
    picture: 113665
  body: "In the <strong>S</strong>erious <strong>F</strong>ont category Gill Sans
    is pretty bad, with what I consider to be some major faux pas throughout.\r\n\r\nBut
    just recently I came across some of Neville Brody's work that I've never seen
    before (lucky me!) I'm almost at a loss for words about how truly horrid I think
    Autotrace, Meta Subnormal, Dirty One and Dirty Four are, regardless of any deconstructivist
    motivation (?) behind their design.\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-01 13:16:35'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "To Satya,\r\n\r\nExcuse me - how could you put BASE 02 on this list? It is
    a easy-to-read grunge face - that was extremely popular and most people never
    paid a cent to the creator for using it -- including HOLLYWOOD.\r\n\r\nAnd Gr\xE4fenberg,
    I am not a fan of Gill Sans, but as a former typesetter learned a long time ago
    that every font (yes even Comic Book Sans) has a place - and that somewhere there
    is a perfect job for it. I happened to have been given a business card recently,
    and it was a delight to see -- and then I realized the face I was looking at was
    Gill Sans Italic. Perhaps since no one I know has used it since 1992 -- it was
    just a pleasure to see."
  created: '2007-12-03 00:06:17'
- author:
    name: nycla3
    picture: 113396
  body: Helveeta...the processed cheese-food of typefaces.;-)
  created: '2007-12-03 02:33:56'
- author:
    name: "Gr\xE4fenberg"
    picture: 113665
  body: "Jackie, I wasn't the one to bring up Gill Sans; just agreeing with a previous
    poster. \r\n\r\nBut let's face it (groan, sorry for the pun) there are some pretty
    ugly glyphs in it - worst being the <strong>a</strong> - and its irregularity
    I find grating*. \r\n\r\nI didn't in any way mean to imply that it can't look
    OK:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bbc.co.uk/nottingham/content/images/2004/11/18/bbc_logo_470_470x352.jpg\">BBC
    logo</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://drzeus.best.vwh.net/wotw/0038.jpg\">Penguin</a> and
    <a href=\"http://www.zaalbooks.nl/BookImages/9398.jpg\">Pelican</a> covers\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.monotypefonts.com/\">Monotype</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/c/c4/Wikimedia_Foundation_RGB_logo_with_text.svg/401px-Wikimedia_Foundation_RGB_logo_with_text.svg.png\">Wikimedia
    Foundation logo</a>\r\n\r\nLots of \u2018ugly\u2019 fonts can be used with skill.
    Doesn't stop them from being ugly in themselves :-)\r\n\r\n*Compare it to Granby
    for example, much more successful as a design overall IMHO.\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-10 17:03:23'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'Russell, you''ve got a typo in your link code: Should be "href" not "haref".'
  created: '2007-12-10 18:37:20'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: '... and I agree with your opinion about Waldorf fonts. I designed a special
    section of a magazine a few years ago about Rudolf Steiner.  I had never heard
    of this style of font before and couldn''t believe people used them with a straight
    face. It would probably work for The Flintstones, though. '
  created: '2007-12-10 18:49:47'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "As long as this thread isn't disappearing...\r\n\r\nI had almost managed
    to forget about <a href=http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/waldorf/>the
    Waldorf fonts</a> until I was reminded by a thread on the Type ID Board.\r\n\r\n(thanks
    Mark!)\r\n\r\nYes - They do use that stuff with a straight face.\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2007-12-10 19:03:45'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: "Conduit! aaargh! It's not funny, it's not clever, it's just u.g.l.y!\r\n.........................................................\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bisondesign.no\">Bison Design</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myspace.com/sponnorway\">Sp\xF6n</a>\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-11 10:58:55'
- author:
    name: lunyboy
    picture: 110638
  body: I am sorry to disagree with Mark, even a year later, but the Waldorf typeface
    would be great with a woodcut design. It is reminiscent of a Jugend cover or a
    magazine in that style from a century ago. Perhaps not with the outline version
    or the "quark" shadow, which are awful.
  created: '2008-10-05 22:37:03'
date: '2007-11-19 03:02:21'
node_type: forum
title: What are the worst typefaces of all time?

---
