---
author:
  name: David Rault
  picture: 112608
body: "... For I just can't stand Super Duty anymore.\r\n\r\nAm I alone?\r\n\r\ndr"
comments:
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>Am I alone?</cite>\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/39285\">Nope.</a>"
  created: '2007-11-21 10:46:37'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: I see. On-topic, I am not bothered by that, but when the titles are a bit
    longer they look strange.
  created: '2007-11-21 13:39:01'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: I understand the title fonts are sponsors. Perhaps another foundary will make
    an offering that will give us some variety.
  created: '2007-11-21 13:47:51'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Oh yes please make an offering please pleeeaaaaaaase\r\n\r\nI mean, we are
    supposed to be all typo freaks out there... This is just plain pain.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2007-11-21 15:07:30'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "I suppose the \"typo freaks\" care about the content, as they scroll down,
    they can read the title on the top of the browser.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-21 15:51:14'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Sheesh. You'd think anything that keeps the boards running, ergo sponsorship!,
    would make you guys happy. Guess there's no pleasing the masses.
  created: '2007-11-21 19:45:44'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: I'm all for sponsorship... I'm just curious when the next sponsor gets to
    roll out their goods.
  created: '2007-11-21 19:51:56'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: Perhaps the reader who donates the most can choose the fonts to be used.
  created: '2007-11-21 21:30:18'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: People can get so picky about websites that are free :(
  created: '2007-11-21 21:31:38'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: I vote to keep Super Duty and I'm backing it up with a pledge of $20 of my-own-money.
  created: '2007-11-21 21:42:07'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: You are so awesome.
  created: '2007-11-21 21:43:41'
- author:
    name: Riccardo Mori
    picture: 111126
  body: "You're not alone, David. I can't stand it either.\r\n\r\nCheers\r\nRick"
  created: '2007-11-21 22:28:30'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: As it's Thanksgiving Eve in the US, I'm going to refrain from bitching and
    further argument and state that I'm thankful for the fact that we have Typophile
    (and that Super Duty rocks the header).
  created: '2007-11-21 22:40:16'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I got it from upstairs that they do hope to change the font soon. They also
    say that if you want your font to be used contact for an ad rate sheet.\r\n\r\nNow
    someone start a thread for what we ARE thankful for or we might lose the spirit
    of the season altogether."
  created: '2007-11-22 02:31:25'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: 'I love Super Duty as a font. At the same time, Typophile is not a G.I. Joe
    fan forum. I thought the whole idea was to rotate the featured font periodically. '
  created: '2007-11-22 02:39:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "They may have priced it a bit high. \r\nI'm just about ready to advertise
    here (just waiting to get my e-commerce finally up and running), but will probably
    go with banner ads rather than the biggie."
  created: '2007-11-22 02:52:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am thankful for Typophile and the chance to have interacted with most of
    the people I have met here. Thanks to the Punchcut gang for all they do. The Superduty
    thing ain't no big thing. I remember when the only thing I could use was typewriter.
    Now I sound like my parents telling me how bad it was during the great Depression
    and how easy we have it now :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-11-22 03:23:26'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/jcpenney_finder_4294.jpg]'
  created: '2007-11-22 06:58:33'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "I am contributing to some typo forums and blogs, and Typophile is by far
    the nicest one. I am really grateful to be able to share my point of view with
    fine typophiles from around the globe, even if it considerably differs with their
    own. So far, bashing has not been too brutal.\r\n\r\nSo... THANK YOU TYPOPHILE.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-
    but please change the font.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2007-11-22 08:20:46'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: ">I vote to keep Super Duty and I\u2019m backing it up with a pledge of $20
    of my-own-money.\r\n\r\nSii, you can count Paul and me each in for another $20
    each. That's $60 to keep Super Duty in circulation. "
  created: '2007-11-22 15:50:46'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "I like the banner ads better, Nick. Candy Script is on one all the time but
    it seems more appropriate and I don't get tired of it. \r\n\r\nI'm not being ungrateful.
    This is a type design forum and Super Duty is a cool font that doesn't work here.
    At least to me. But I didn't grow to hate Super Duty. I just never liked it in
    the titles. I think Beorcana is a beautiful font but I didn't like it in the titles
    either.\r\n\r\nI hope Typophile is thick-skinned enough to know she's a great
    girl that everyone adores. She just looks a bit fat in the Super Duty outfit.\r\n\r\nSharon\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2007-11-22 19:48:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The problem isn't all Super Duty's.\r\nIMO, Georgia is right now the sore
    thumb on the site.\r\n\r\nA sans text face would work better with Super Duty as
    heads.\r\n\r\nSo either Typophile should trust users to change the text font,
    or make the change itself.\r\nOtherwise, it's restricting the kinds of typefaces
    that will look good as Featured Font."
  created: '2007-11-22 20:12:30'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "I cant really elaborate on the issue for it is thanksgiving, I am on my phone
    and sitting in a hot tub in los angeles, but if anyone would like to see the typeface
    change, please contact us directly and we'd be happy to consider your own work.\r\n\r\nNick,
    email me when you get a chance - let's chat about a sponsorship :)\r\n\r\nOf course
    not everyone is going to be happy win the choice of typeface (whether on typophile
    or in their local paper) and some folks are turned off by the color red. Super
    duty won't be there forever, though personally I think it looks HOT. We are thrilled
    to be able to show off the work of indie designers, and do plan to rotate it with
    time, as opportunities present themselves.\r\n\r\nBack to my vacation..."
  created: '2007-11-22 20:35:45'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'I liked it to start with & having seen it for a while I like it MORE. But
    each to his own... I also think it''s an awfully cool way to get your type in
    front of Type folks. '
  created: '2007-11-22 20:50:45'
- author:
    name: vanina
    picture: 113631
  body: 'There''s a difference between bitching/being unappreciative and welcoming
    the next best thing : ) DR''s attitude is positive. Like all sites, free sites
    also benefit from the opinions of its participants. '
  created: '2007-11-23 02:42:36'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: I must agree. The title font is un-appealing... and a sans-serif would work
    better for the text, especially at this small size.
  created: '2007-11-23 14:33:34'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>DR\u2019s attitude is positive.</em>\r\n\r\n</em>I just can\u2019t stand
    ...</em>\r\n\r\n\"can't stand\" is not positive in my book. any one else want
    to pitch in to keep superduty around a bit longer? "
  created: '2007-11-23 15:49:29'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: As long as people are bringing it up, I have a hard time reading Georgia on
    Typophile, too. I think that this has something to do with the text appearing
    on a light gray background, which makes the anti-aliasing look much blurrier than
    it does when displayed against white.
  created: '2007-11-23 16:07:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "To my old eyes, Georgia is quite easy to read and I hope you stay with it
    as a text face.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-11-23 17:42:36'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: on my display (Win XP with ClearType enabled) Georgia looks just fabulous.
  created: '2007-11-23 17:48:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Georgia is fine on my Mac LCD screen, I just don't think it goes well with
    Super Duty.\r\n\r\nIf the contrast were between advertising and editorial, no
    problem, one expects such typography to be discongruent, and it's dysfunctional
    when it's not.\r\n\r\nBut with the Featured Font carrying bona fide editorial
    load, it does look wrong to match Super Duty with Georgia -- I mean, would any
    typographer do that in a magazine or brochure?\r\n\r\nJust a constructive observation,
    of something that's not necessarily a \"fault\" which could be anticipated when
    coming up with a brilliant new marketing idea like the Featured Font."
  created: '2007-11-23 18:10:44'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: well we could just redesign the site very month, I think we have time for
    that. It would be fun to see all the hate mail :)
  created: '2007-11-23 18:18:27'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: I'll donate $30 to see Comic Sans as the title font
  created: '2007-11-23 18:21:07'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "Seriously, we all would like to see a fresh face, in order to do this, interested
    designers need to contact us to discuss the opportunity.\r\n\r\nif you want the
    text face change in addition to the featured font, this is going to cost you extra
    :)"
  created: '2007-11-23 18:23:59'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>But with the Featured Font carrying bona fide editorial load, it does
    look wrong to match Super Duty with Georgia \u2014 I mean, would any typographer
    do that in a magazine or brochure?</em>\r\n\r\nBut by that rationale, the parts
    that use Georgia would have to change everytime when the Featured Face does not
    match with it? That sounds a bit overdone to be honest. :)"
  created: '2007-11-23 18:24:43'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: $50 for Arial
  created: '2007-11-23 18:46:30'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "Actually in reality I nominate this font:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.26symbols.com/images/alpha06_big.gif\r\n\r\nby
    josh Scruggs"
  created: '2007-11-23 18:54:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> the parts that use Georgia would have to change everytime when the Featured
    Face does not match with it? </em>\r\n\r\nI don't have the perfect solution.\r\nI'm
    just pointing out a discrepancy in the design of this site, now that it uses Featured
    Fonts.\r\nI've already suggested two solutions, to repeat:\r\n\r\n1. Text type
    to be user-changeable\r\n2. A sans serif text face alternate to Georgia, for use
    with certain Featured Fonts, at the discretion of Punchcut.\r\n\r\nIt's not like
    the site would have to be redesigned for each Featured Font, but having a sans
    alternate would make for a more integrated design with faces such as Super Duty.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-23 21:42:09'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: 'Nick: So for sans-serif, are you thinking Verdana or Arial or what?'
  created: '2007-11-23 23:25:16'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Well, I agree that they faces not really fit well together. I guess a sans
    alternate could be a solution. However I'm not really that bothered by it; it
    would be nice if the Featured Face would rotate a bit more often. Super Duty is
    in use now far longer than Beorcana was (which I think looked better)? Or am I
    mistaken?
  created: '2007-11-23 23:25:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Beorcana seemed to be used longer from my foggy memory but I have no data.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-11-23 23:30:15'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Well, maybe it's my memory that is the foggy one then. ;)
  created: '2007-11-24 00:43:05'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "hey, here is a positive idea, i think:\r\n\r\nlet's make a bit of democracy
    and vote. i mean, why not asking the very users of this forum, who are supposed
    to get these fonts under their eyes on a daily basis, what they wish? a rotation?
    a static font? a fresh new font? an old one?\r\n\r\nor should we simply accept
    the fact that money is the key, and that the fonts used here will never change
    as long as nobody gives cash? or will be replaced by more unlegible ones if the
    foundry gives a bigger check? is reality that harsh?\r\n\r\nwhy not using fonts
    designed with absolute perfection hundreds of years ago, the kind of ones everyone
    would actually not discuss about? the ones you are used to read in newspapers
    and magazines? the ones that are so well designed that you will actually not spend
    time and energy talking about, allowing to focus on all the other subjects? bodoni,
    helvetica, baskerville, whatever. the typeface of the month / semester / century
    can be shown in 50 different ways, money can still get in.\r\n\r\ni'd like to
    say that i dont really care at the end, but I'm afraid I do. \r\n\r\n- ok now
    thy can destroy me with your mighty keyboards.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2007-11-24 08:39:18'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Typophile is not a democracy. Typophile is owned and administrated by members
    of the Punchcut design studio in San Francisco. Without the time and devotion
    that they give\u2014for free, after hours, when they should probably be with their
    spouses, families, children, friends, etc.\u2014there would not be a Typophile
    for us to use. They make the code, they pay the bills (rather high bills!), they
    make the rules. Yes, reality is that harsh.\r\n\r\n<em>\r\n>why not using fonts
    designed with absolute perfection hundreds of years ago, the kind of ones everyone
    would actually not discuss about?</em>\r\n\r\nUmmn, another Nota Bene\u2026 we
    cannot use fonts designed 100 years ago. Those were metal types. At best (for
    you), we could only use contemporary digital versions of those fonts. There is
    a big difference here!\r\n\r\nAnd lastly, I doubt that the Typophile administers
    and moderators would get so excited about old fonts. Many of us are type designers
    ourselves, or have worked in the type industry, and what we really care about
    is making and seeing new designs. Since fonts were made already \"with absolute
    perfection hundreds of years ago,\" according to you we should all pack up our
    bags and go home, right? Thankfully, as I said at the top of this post, that isn't
    a possibility, because even those old fonts won't show up on anyone's computer
    screens automatically! Or at least until someone invents a technology where you
    can pour old metal type sorts into the top of a computer, and then magically see
    letters dancing properly on the screen."
  created: '2007-11-24 10:50:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Why is everything that is old always better than something new? We easily
    give that quaint nostalgic boost to anything predating our time. All of those
    things are predated by something else. Lets not stop at metal type, lets go back
    to calligraphy. Cunieform, or even cave paintings. \r\nThe point of the featured
    font is to show new work. We can see old work anytime we want. What would be the
    point? Let's let Punchcut do their thing. If you have an idea for a new featured
    face, design it and let everyone comment on it. Complaining is easy and takes
    no work.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-11-24 15:34:27'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "'Complaining is easy and takes no work'\r\n\r\neewww... ok, when it comes
    down to this, i dont want to argue anymore.\r\n\r\nyou,re right, i'm wrong.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2007-11-24 16:05:24'
- author:
    name: vanina
    picture: 113631
  body: "\u2019Complaining is easy and takes no work\u2019\r\nThis is below the belt.
    \r\nCan't we leave guilt out of this? Complaining is when you mope and don't do
    anything. DR is asking questions and giving suggestions about how this can happen.
    If he could do it, I think he would. It's not clear how this can happen. What
    we need is not to shut him up as a complainer \u2014 we need a clear explanation
    of how this works, who does it and how much it costs. Punchcut, I'm sure, aren't
    martyrs. We simply need to know if, and what, is possible. Clear and simple, no
    drama, no guilt trips. \r\n\r\nalso: \"$50 for Arial\"  LLLOOLLL "
  created: '2007-11-24 19:12:02'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>\u2019Complaining is easy and takes no work\u2019\r\nThis is below the
    belt.</em>\r\n\r\ni don't think so. anyone whining deserves whatever insults are
    hurled at them, not that this is even insulting - just the truth.\r\n\r\n<em>we
    need a clear explanation of how this works, who does it and how much it costs.</em>\r\n\r\nthis
    information is in the thread already. contact punchcut directly if you're serious
    about sponsoring the featured face. i'm sure they'll work with you on rates.\r\n\r\n<em>Clear
    and simple, no drama, no guilt trips.</em>\r\n\r\nfrom either side..."
  created: '2007-11-24 19:32:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Vanina,\r\nHow it works is that Punchcut pays for the web site and the maintenance
    out of their own pocket. The labor is all done by volunteers with jobs and families
    and bills to pay like the rest of us. They do it in their spare time and are hardly
    ever thanked for their efforts. Punchcut tries to support the typography community
    worldwide buy giving us all this venue to speak and even complain about all things
    typographic. Sometimes they try to recoup a small bit of the cost to support the
    site by getting foundries or designers to sponsor a very small ad or use a typeface
    for headings for a fee. They also sell T-shirts to help with the cost. There is
    no drama or guilt trip intended by Punchcut or anyone else. Typophile is a community
    of people with an interest in typography. We don't agree with each other most
    of the time just like most groups of people. There is no \"them and us\". There
    is just dialogue. Sometimes you like it, sometimes you don't. No one says you
    can't voice an opinion but don't expect your opinion to cause someone else to
    always take action on your behalf.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-11-24 21:55:07'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>a sans-serif would work better for the text, especially at this small
    size.</cite>\r\n\r\nI see a sans serif, not Georgia. Maybe it's my Safari preferences
    or something.\r\n\r\nI'm not a huge fan or Super Duty, nor did I love Beorcana,
    but what I like isn't really the point. I don't think a font exists that could
    possibly please everybody here. I do think it would be nice for readers if it
    changed more often, and also be nice if more indie designers chad the opportunity
    to sponsor fonts over the course of a year. I hope Typeco got some sales from
    this, but I bet that most people who would have been inspired to buy Super Duty
    have already done so by now.\r\n\r\nI do hope the grousers are kicking in some
    money to support Typophile themselves."
  created: '2007-11-26 00:43:48'
date: '2007-11-21 10:33:56'
title: Please change the title font...

---
