---
author:
  name: satya
  picture: 111785
body: "Hello Typophiles,\r\n\r\nNow a days it has almost become a trend of having
  those glossy, \r\nshiny and stylish gradient logos. The Microsoft Silverlight logo
  \r\nwould be a perfect example to give. I know that lots of people \r\ndidn't liked
  it and were screaming when it was released. But why? \r\nWhy can't we have such
  logos? Personally I loved it and have no \r\nproblem with having such logos even
  in the future also. Logo \r\nis just an identity and anything can be logo as far
  as its unique \r\nand easy to remember. Earlier, the printing was a big problem
  \r\nand we use to prefer flat logos but, why now?\r\n\r\n\r\nWhat you all think?\r\n\r\n\r\nSatya\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aaaaaaaaa
  copy_5372.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I've thought about this before\u2014that the traditional sense of how a logo
    should function has been steamrolled by cheap 4-color printing. \r\n\r\nSo we
    used to have to design a simple logo so faxes and one-color business cards etc.
    could use the logo. Now, products like this one may never appear in one color,
    or need to be shown small. Maybe this mark will function in all the intended usage
    situations. I can see that it would completely fail used small in a K only newspaper
    add.\r\n\r\nI guess my lingering problem is that at some point a company will
    need some of its identity to work in the classic ways a mark used to be designed
    to work, and photographic/photoshop marks like this can't fit into that identity.\r\n\r\nI
    also think that there must be a super saturation point with all the craptastic
    photoshopish over illustrated detritus that floods my eyes. Let's hope this look
    goes out of vogue just like everything else.\r\n\r\n^Total rant."
  created: '2007-11-21 15:31:31'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Microsoft = laziness\r\n\r\nNot quite related, but another MS logo tidbit:\r\n\r\nhttp://mnteractive.com/archive/separated-at-birth/"
  created: '2007-11-21 15:36:30'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I think that for a company like Microsoft, that can afford hi-quality printing
    anywhere the logo is featured, it makes sense. But when I see a logo like this
    printed on a cheap sticker and slapped across the side of a small-business\u2019
    trucks, I tend to think that the designer was not thinking about his client\u2019s
    budget."
  created: '2007-11-21 16:11:03'
- author:
    name: DistantThunder
    picture: 113644
  body: "Thinking in terms of rules ... like there is some great cosmic code that's
    in violation here ... is a setback in effective design. The main relevant questions
    are: Is it distinctive? Does it represent the product's character? Does it appeal
    to the intended audience? Can the client afford it? Will it work in the medium
    where it will appear? In regards to MS Silverlight, I would answer these questions
    as:\r\n\r\nDistinctive: Acceptably ... I recognize it right away, but it does
    seem a little generic\r\nRepresentative: Doubtful ... but I haven't used Silverlight
    web apps enough to know for sure\r\nAppealing: Hard to say (who is the intended
    audience? web developers, mostly?)\r\nAffordable: Definitely\r\nPractical: Mostly
    ... it's mainly used online\r\n\r\nI work in broadcasting, and broadcast logos,
    while they often have a static counterpart, can be very colorful, fluid, organic,
    and especially these days, animated. The animated logos can be good or bad, but
    as a viewer I think some of them are really cool and represent their show or channel
    or station very well. And there is no doubt they fit the primary medium very well.
    Paper is not everyone's foremost concern ... nor should it be."
  created: '2007-11-21 16:38:24'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "And its not just the Microsoft, the whole corporate world is going \r\ndimensional
    now a days. Weren't these logos flat before_? \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Not
    Microsoft alone_6428.jpg]"
  created: '2007-11-21 16:57:31'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Perfect examples, but try making a flat version of the posted Microsoft mark.
    The designs above were made with a simplified version at the core of the design,
    which covers every potential situation.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-21 17:19:38'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "<em>but try making a flat version of the posted Microsoft mark.</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    whats the point of having a flat logo when everyone \r\nis going 3d and they hardly
    use flat versions_? Isn't 3D more expressive_?"
  created: '2007-11-21 17:53:23'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Maybe more expressive, but maybe not.\r\n\r\nSay the Silverlight product
    becomes a supporter of some charity event, and the Silverlight logo, along with
    5 other logos, needs to be features in reverse on the bottom corner of some small
    take-away collateral piece. Now you have to send them something to include or
    use a text-only version. Or maybe the logo need to be features on a very large
    banner, but the original is a photoshop file that is 11 x 11\" or so. \r\n\r\nThere
    are going to be technical demands on the mark and the inability to deliver a simple
    one-color mark will come back again and again. That's not good design."
  created: '2007-11-21 18:00:47'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: satya_,_what_is_the_point_of_these_underlines_?
  created: '2007-11-21 18:07:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Is your sample showing correctly Satya?\r\nIt looks blue on my monitor, not
    silver."
  created: '2007-11-21 18:14:03'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "<em>Now you have to send them something to include or use a text-only version.
    Or maybe the logo need to be features on a very large banner, but the original
    is a photoshop file that is 11 x 11\u201D or so.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, that wouldn't
    be a problem because an image can always contain its transparency values in it.
    And now a days its also possible to make those vector gradients. You can blow
    them up, you can change their color or even the background. The only problem was
    the printing which is no more a big headache. "
  created: '2007-11-21 18:17:11'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "<em>satya_,_what_is_the_point_of_these_underlines_?</em>\r\n\r\nSorry! :|"
  created: '2007-11-21 18:18:40'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "James, here is the Silverlight on a reversed background. And am sure they
    must have thought of these issues too.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/transperant_4063.jpg]"
  created: '2007-11-21 18:23:55'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "But what if it was a one color piece. Printing is always a potential big
    headache. I still hold that the unforseen will be waiting for you and if you can't
    adapt your mark to the lowest common application you will end up spending far
    too much time trying to adapt to each new situation.\r\n\r\nNot to mention that
    CMYK us a but dull and lifeless, and the potential for using PMS colors in branding
    is much better."
  created: '2007-11-21 18:30:59'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "One of the factors in deciding on Canada's flag design back in the '60 was
    \"Could a child draw it?\" \r\n\r\nSimple is good.\r\n\r\nwe all communicate unintended
    messages, and perhaps one thing that's being communicated with jazzed-up faux
    3D logos is that they are trying to look like something they are not, or that
    they are plain old soggy fries spiced up with a little gravy. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2007-11-21 18:43:55'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: 'The Silverlight logo seems like a swirling meaningless blob. If I look away,
    I can''t remember it. If I saw it later without the text I probably wouldn''t
    recognize it.  Ford uses a blue oval. UPS starts with a brown shield. Most famous
    logos start with some core shape and color that is distinct. Then people will
    argue around how that basic idea should manifest itself. If the goal is to create
    something people will recognize, I would consider the Silverlight logo a failure. '
  created: '2007-11-21 18:47:42'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Well, and you never know who will be working with the mark as the situation
    develops. If we could retain control of the mark and its usage that would be one
    thing, but it is going to end up being misused and poorly handled and something
    about having a flat vector version that is very simple makes it much harder for
    other people to goof up.
  created: '2007-11-21 18:47:59'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">One of the factors in deciding on Canada\u2019s flag design back in the
    \u201960 was \u201CCould a child draw it?\u201D \r\n\r\nI prefer the old flag.\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_of_Canada\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-21 18:54:24'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I'm not sure about all of those logos, but I can say that companies like Ford,
    GM, and Chevrolet still have "flat" or "dimension-less" versions of their logos
    for download to those who use their brands. I think they are taking advantage
    of the fact that there is so much media now that doesn't depend upon the fax machine
    environment. Sure, I totally agree that in an ideal world the logo should work
    in black ink only. But why can't they build it up from there?
  created: '2007-11-21 18:55:55'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: It looks like a screensaver to me - actually, one I see often on Macs!
  created: '2007-11-21 18:57:26'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: At least it's better than "London 2012" logo. ;-)
  created: '2007-11-21 19:13:30'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "It looks like a huge folded compact lens to me. I don't see how it represents
    silver light.\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2007-11-21 20:11:34'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: What if you want to print an ad with such a logo in a black and white (raster)
    printed newspaper?
  created: '2007-11-21 23:33:03'
- author:
    name: cooper design
    picture: 111844
  body: "The question is a bit confused here at the outset in that Silverlight is
    a product and not a company. So while the art may be subjected to some of the
    vagaries of a logo's life, it is essentially functioning more as the packaging
    and advertising of a commodity than as the identity of an organization.\r\nThat
    said, there is no questin that we are seeing more dimensionality in logos thanks
    to advances in software, media and mechanical reproduction. One could argue, however,
    that dimensionality only changes the way the logo <strong>looks</strong> and doesn't
    change the thing itself. Just as adding any degree of dimensionality to a letter
    changes its appearance but not our understanding of what it <strong>is</strong>.
    Which means that the essence of logo design\u2014the creation of a symbol\u2014remains
    unchanged and as difficult an art/science as ever."
  created: '2007-11-21 23:43:57'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: and ghost farts don't make good logos
  created: '2007-11-22 00:06:48'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: lol.
  created: '2007-11-22 00:46:44'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/natural-flag_3600.jpg]\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-22 02:54:07'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: Beautiful ;)
  created: '2007-11-22 14:01:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The Silverlight logo looks like a prolapsed heart valve to me. I don't see
    it as memorable. This has nothing to do with 3d and blends, it just has no voice
    beyond tonal values.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-11-22 16:32:04'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026it just has no voice beyond tonal values.</cite>\r\n\r\nGiven
    the current state of Silverlight\u2014barely more than vaporware\u2014I think
    that makes it pretty appropriate."
  created: '2007-11-22 17:28:30'
- author:
    name: writingdesigning
    picture: 112522
  body: "\"Why can't we have such logos?...\"\r\n\r\nMoving away from this particular
    example, this broad approach to brand identity does indeed encourage a kind of
    laziness. You tend to substitute rigour of exploration with the latest filter
    or effect. \r\n\r\nIn place of an idea you have a look. The problem, of course,
    is that like any other fashion, it goes out of fashion quite soon. There's an
    intro on Michael Johnson's website which puts it rather nicely: \"...nothing dates
    quicker than a style and nothing dates slower than a great idea\"\r\n\r\nWhich,
    by the way, is not be all bad. The need for organizations to redo identities every
    couple of years ensures that those of us in that line of work earn enough to pay
    our bills ;)"
  created: '2007-11-22 18:13:27'
- author:
    name: writingdesigning
    picture: 112522
  body: "\"Earlier the printing was a big problem, and we used to prefer flat logos
    but why now?\"\r\n\r\nSatya, I think in practise it still is quite a problem,
    and will remain so for the foreseeable future. \r\n\r\nEven with the most exhaustive
    implementation guidelines, a logo of that sort is almost guaranteed to get distorted.
    Implementation standards, production processes, and approaches to quality vary
    wildly from region to region. This is particularly true in a place like India.
    \r\n\r\nWith even fairly straighforward identities suffering from poor or inconsistent
    implementation, these more complicated ones don't stand a chance. \r\n\r\nI'd
    design something like this for a little web start-up or a boutique brand, but
    not for a major brand that has to work across applications and geographies."
  created: '2007-11-22 18:33:28'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "No offense, but the bar has not been set that high in this space...\r\n\r\nFrom
    Adobe.com\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Capture_5410.GIF][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Capture2_5808.GIF][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Capture3_6516.GIF][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Capture4_5469.GIF]\r\n\r\n\r\nFrom
    the Web...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/thumbnailCAD6JO6K_4068.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/thumbnailCAHGPECT_4207.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/thumbnailCAUUH4SO_5031.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/thumbnailCAZEA4XH_3543.jpg]"
  created: '2007-11-22 18:51:16'
- author:
    name: writingdesigning
    picture: 112522
  body: "\"...the bar has not been set that high in this space\"\r\n\r\nBy and large
    true. But Satya's UPS example is a bit of an exception. One hardly ever sees a
    flat 2D version of that identity. Yet it's been executed quite brilliantly. "
  created: '2007-11-22 19:08:31'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'True - any of the current Flash logos would work well in 2D too. '
  created: '2007-11-22 19:21:53'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>By and large true. But Satya\u2019s UPS example is a bit of an exception.
    One hardly ever sees a flat 2D version of that identity. Yet it\u2019s been executed
    quite brilliantly.</cite>\r\n\r\nCheck the three part forms ad other preprinted
    labels etc. All have a flat brown logo."
  created: '2007-11-22 19:32:03'
- author:
    name: writingdesigning
    picture: 112522
  body: "\"All have a flat brown logo\"\r\n\r\nI have seen the flat version, but it
    is, relatively, rarely used. At least in this region. "
  created: '2007-11-22 19:43:43'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "Microsoft is one of our clients at work. Having done design work for them,
    I can say that the printing is not always high quality or professional. A lot
    of stuff goes out to be printed in-office. By people working there. In black and
    white. On bad paper. \r\n\r\n*GASP*\r\n\r\nI personally hate the gradient filled
    shiny style that seems to be popular right now and I try to not do it as much
    as brand guide lines allow me. \r\n\r\nWhat's the worst is when someone just makes
    a shiny logo in lieu of an actual concept. My concept is \"web 2.0\""
  created: '2007-11-22 19:50:02'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: By the way, why did you screen shot your post instead of just posting it....?
  created: '2007-11-22 19:51:25'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "Few more faces of Silverlight.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/patent_4172.jpg]"
  created: '2007-11-22 20:59:26'
- author:
    name: writingdesigning
    picture: 112522
  body: "And they actually got each of those things trademarked!!!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-22 21:01:03'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "As much as I hate to do this I'm going to lean towards this logo as being
    very much a part of our time and a harbinger of things to come. I'm not surprized
    to see this form of graphic from Microsoft, and perhaps its a little late in coming.
    Architects like Hadid have been constructing these forms for a while now, so this
    can hardly be called a passing trend. And with the advance of computer driven
    design, on all levels of society, it seems that Microsoft is placing itself as
    a relevant part of our 'modern' society. \r\n\r\nThe other crap that looks like
    it was puked from a photoshop filter/layer stlye, is very much a narrow representation
    of society which barely has any relevance on any level of society at all.\r\n\r\n\r\ncanderson,
    that design is just great. \r\n\r\n   \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-22 21:26:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's very clever.\r\nIf the Nike swoosh was emblematic in a flat, still way,
    this takes all the smoke, frills, swirls, swashes and general embellishment of
    contemorary design illustration, and encapsulates it in a polymorphous dimensional
    icon. Surely the mother of all these marks is a randomly generating animation?"
  created: '2007-11-22 22:01:59'
- author:
    name: DavM
    picture: 111865
  body: "Printing is not a problem?\r\nLets say, have this logo printed three times
    on three different print houses and you'll get 3 different colors. That doesnt
    help brand experience & recognition at all. Thats the main difference between
    these random generated million color logos and the 2d ones as you call it."
  created: '2007-11-23 01:03:29'
- author:
    name: ragnarfreyr
    picture: 109612
  body: "The important question to ask is where is the tutorial? ;)\r\n\r\n--\r\nRagnar
    Freyr\r\nwww.ragnarfreyr.com"
  created: '2007-11-23 01:06:51'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I wish the logo was the problem. The logo is fine. But Microsoft's corporate
    communication that talks about Silverlight is just BEYOND SCARY. Take a look at
    the PDF examples <a href=\"http://download.microsoft.com/download/1/9/5/195c1f00-bc52-44d8-9950-a00b4a7bc751/Track01__Key_note_Pres3_Scott_Guthrie.pdf\">one</a>,
    <a href=\"http://download.microsoft.com/download/5/5/d/55d5907f-48bb-4517-a1dc-47973a08ec99/Silverlight.pdf\">two</a>,
    <a href=\"http://download.microsoft.com/download/3/D/6/3D60825B-38C2-4741-9969-2AABEEF00992/Expression_und_Silverlight.pdf\">three</a>,
    <a href=\"http://download.microsoft.com/download/9/f/f/9ff7cdaf-d0e7-4f19-98e0-c6139faee349/Dev01.pdf\">four</a>,
    <a href=\"http://download.microsoft.com/download/a/1/9/a1986142-e2a2-4c06-93fa-6a92928f605c/Silverlight_Martin_Tririon.pdf\">five</a>
    or <a href=\"http://download.microsoft.com/download/1/9/5/195c1f00-bc52-44d8-9950-a00b4a7bc751/Track07__14.REMIX-Windows-Live-Moore-Part1_George_Moore.pdf\">six</a>.
    \r\n\r\nIt's just a random sample of what <a href=\"http://www.google.com/search?q=silverlight+site%3Amicrosoft.com+filetype%3Apdf\">Google</a>
    gave me. I just clicked on the first few links and could not find anything that
    looked remotely reasonable, maybe except <a href=\"http://download.microsoft.com/download/b/e/3/be37cbce-425e-45c2-a9f5-378026b5be81/1sessaoODesignMicrosoft.pdf\">this</a>
    but even that is completely derivative. Sad and scary. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-11-23 02:35:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>the traditional sense of how a logo should function has been steamrolled
    by cheap 4-color printing.</em>\r\n\r\nThat and the Internet. Traditional flat
    logos can seem dull in a colourful, interactive environment. Companies don't want
    their logo to be the most boring thing on a web page, so they tart it up, make
    it look three dimensional, make it rotate, throb, etc."
  created: '2007-11-23 02:53:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I guess if looking like a hooker is what you are after...\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-11-23 05:22:48'
- author:
    name: sihep
    picture: 112339
  body: "I think that visual identities for software are slightly different to corporate
    identities proper. The ID for a program only really has to exist on a CD cover/packaging
    and on screen when you start the thing up. The 'ghost fart' would obviously look
    lousy on a business card at 133lpi in 2 colours but it isn't ever going to end
    up there - the Microsoft logo is still just 1 colour and Adobe 2. At the same
    time there does seem to be a trend towards 3D in visual identities for corporations,
    the first ones I remember being Silicon Graphics and Astra Zeneca (which sort
    of looks like strings of melted cheese). \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sgi_logo_6586.gif][img:sites/default/files/old-images/astra_zeneca_logo_4168.jpg]"
  created: '2007-11-24 00:30:04'
- author:
    name: Mason Flint
  body: "I enjoyed reading this discussion on the Silverlight logo and thought I'd
    add my perspective. I managed the development of the Silverlight brand name and
    identity at Microsoft.  To be clear - I am not a designer nor an expert in production.
    I\u2019m a brand strategy guy. We worked with an outside partner on the logo design
    and rely on in-house and external partners to design and produce content that
    incorporate the logo.\r\n\r\nWhat I can comment on is what our thinking was as
    we developed this logo. Silverlight is a tool for designers and software developers
    who are creating something of their own. Ultimately they control the design of
    the experiences they create with Silverlight.  We explored a wide range of options
    for the logo including more traditional approaches like those designed around
    real objects (e.g. the shield shape of the UPS logo or the Apple of the Apple
    logo) that some on this forum noted.  We ultimately decided that a design that
    was more open and without boundaries was more fitting with the Silverlight concept.
    I\u2019m going out a bit on a limb here but in some respects Silverlight is somewhat
    amorphous, only taking shape after a designer creates something using it. We didn\u2019t
    want to box it in by creating an overly literal logo. \r\n\r\nWe entered into
    the design process thinking animation first, static online second and print a
    very distant third. The static logo you see above was taken from a frame of an
    animation that we created. While technology and bandwidth doesn\u2019t always
    make it possible to display the logo in high quality animated form, that\u2019s
    our goal when possible. We knew that we would need to create static versions,
    print was not a priority. Silverlight was designed to be native to the Web. The
    idea of printing it black and white in newsprint is totally counter to what Silverlight
    is about.\r\n\r\nThere are certainly downsides to this approach but overall we\u2019re
    pretty happy with the results and the response we\u2019ve seen/heard to the design.
    We\u2019re aware of the challenges in using this logo effectively and I\u2019ve
    already seen some scary examples of \u201Cdesign\u201D that are off-brand. We
    work hard to limit this by creating guidance that we provide to our design/agency
    partners and in most cases they do great work.\r\n\r\nI hope this gives you a
    glimpse into how we approached this project. Feedback on the forum or via mail
    is welcome.\r\n\r\nMason Flint\r\nMicrosoft Corp.\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-07 01:53:44'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "I hope you know that where I come from, saying something looks like a folded
    compact lens is the highest of compliments. :-)\r\n\r\nSharon\r\n\r\nPS - thanks
    for the background"
  created: '2007-12-07 02:49:25'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Mason, I enjoyed reading your comments.  I was at SBI Razorfish when the
    former SBI folks were redesigning the MS Office Suite identity -- there is nothing
    lazy about MS identity design.\r\n\r\nThe Silverlight identity does not feel safe.
    It feels aspirational, open-ended and unbounded. This will easily be relevant
    for the the 5+ years needed to become widely adopted. I think Hiroshige and Nick
    are right, it feels very current.\r\n\r\nI'm very curious to watch Microsoft branding
    and product development these days. You can see how Office and Windows brands
    \ feel very constrained by old boundaries (legacy branding has recognition, but
    it's an albatross when it comes to evolving an aging brand).  However, you can
    see great innovation happening with Zune and Xbox -- with print, television, UI
    that feels very current and innovative. "
  created: '2007-12-07 06:00:47'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "BTW. The new design of Mercedes Benz brand is going back to simple flat shapes.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.mercedes-benz.de
    -\r\nhttp://www.fontblog.de/mercedes-benz-fuehrt-neues-markendesign-ein\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n--<a
    href=\"http://www.astype.de\" target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2007-12-11 14:38:06'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: The cars are still 3D thought, right? ;-)
  created: '2007-12-11 15:21:37'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The Silverlight identity does not feel safe. It feels aspirational,
    open-ended and unbounded. This will easily be relevant for the the 5+ years needed
    to become widely adopted. I think Hiroshige and Nick are right, it feels very
    current.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell said.\r\n\r\nSometimes I look at the great design
    of the twentieth century and feel the same way a lot of people do when they see
    stuff like the silverlight logo. A big white page with a couple lines of text
    set in Helvetica? Ick. I think it\u2019s the design equivalent of the \u201Cmy
    five year old could paint that\u201D comment that inevitably pops out of someones
    mouth at least once every five minutes at every modern art museum. It\u2019s probably
    just part of the human condition. "
  created: '2007-12-11 15:34:46'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: yes, cars are 3d and the target market is totally different. But the Mercedes
    sign went into 3d street, like many other signs. Now its back to classic since
    "real" things are simple. :-)
  created: '2007-12-11 23:27:06'
- author:
    name: vismic
  body: "I know that this is a little off topic, but I am actually looking for a (flash)tutorial
    or component that I can use to create an animated logo like Microsofts Silverlight
    logo. It does not have to be exactly like Silverlight, but an animated sphere
    with shifting, ghostlike smoke-patterns moving around inside is what I want.\r\n\r\nAny
    suggestions?\r\n\r\nVismic"
  created: '2010-01-20 09:59:07'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: 'Silverlight logo seems to be created with some 3d application such as: Autodesk
    Alias Maya, Softimage XSI or Autodesk 3ds Max. '
  created: '2010-01-26 15:32:37'
date: '2007-11-21 14:55:44'
title: 'Microsoft Silverlight Logo : A Trend or Laziness?'

---
