---
author:
  name: blank
body: "The following are a few excerpts from a much longer presentation describing
  my senior thesis. I am posting it here because the designers who heard it at school
  were not type designers, and so were unable to provide much useful feedback. I apologize
  if the grammar is a little wonky, but this was written to be read aloud. If you\u2019re
  interested and want to read the whole thing, <a href=\"http://www.jpad.biz/pdfs/puckett_thesis.rtf\">get
  it here</a>.\r\n\r\n<strong>To start with, here\u2019s the thesis statement</strong>\r\nGood
  typography is an important part of effective visual communication. As identity programs
  and typography converged, new typefaces emerged that could be used in a wide variety
  of media, from fine print on labels to signage to printed pages to computer screens.
  I shall address these faces as multiplatform types. Multiplatform types offer organizations
  exceptionally readable typography that remains consistent across more media than
  ever before. \r\n\r\n<strong>To Follow that, I\u2019ll define the term <em>multiplatform
  typeface</em> in detail</strong>\r\nMultiplatform typefaces generally include a
  variety of weights designed for use in different situations. The designs are often
  very similar for use in very small and very large media; as Erik Spiekermann has
  pointed out, this is because legibility-promoting features applicable to one extreme
  are often applicable to the other extreme. A book or text weight that leaves out
  some of these special features may also be designed, as they are not needed under
  more reader-friendly conditions. These various weights may be clearly named for
  their intended media, or it may be left to designers to make such decisions.\r\n\r\nIn
  signage words must often be read quickly, from a distance, and at angles, causing
  the brain to process words letter-by-letter. Thus multiplatform typefaces are highly
  legible, and characters are intentionally dissimilar, as opposed to the strikingly
  similar character designs of Univers and Helvetica. Counters and apertures are large,
  this is facilitated with large x-heights and short strokes that do not extend into
  the apertures. Special attention is given to the glyphs lowercase i, uppercase I,
  lowercase l and the lining figure 1 to prevent them from being mistaken for each
  other.\r\n\r\n<strong>And the goal and form of the work (this is not a written thesis
  project)</strong>\r\nMy goal is to examine, via direct experience, the design of
  multi-platform typefaces, and use the results to present their value to my audience.
  This will be done by presenting the history of the typefaces as well as examining
  design elements of the typefaces that enhance legibility and readability. The information
  presented will be used to explain why a multiplatform typeface is more appropriate
  for corporate identity systems than older superfamilies such as Helvetica, Univers,
  and Frutiger. \r\n\r\nI will design a new multiplatform typeface and present it
  in a series of specimens designed as a brochure targeting businesspeople rather
  than the graphic designers that type specimens often target. The typeface will be
  produced in four weights; light, medium,  semibold and bold. Because of the limited
  time available, complete fonts will not be developed\u2014the character set will
  be limited to a Latin alphabet for the English language only, along with basic punctuation
  and lining figures. Only light and bold weights will be drawn, and I will leverage
  interpolation software to produce the regular and medium weights. \r\n\r\nMy typeface
  will be presented as part of the graphic design senior thesis exhibition at the
  Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington, DC. I plan to present my typeface in a specimen
  designed as a brochure targeting businesspeople rather than graphic designers.<em>(We
  are required to not target designers with our thesis work)</em> This brochure shall
  be given away at a trade-show style booth designed using the typeface in a variety
  of sizes. If possible, the booth shall sit in front of a large horizontal banner
  featuring the typeface. "
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "To keep things cleaner, here\u2019s my followup post to the big one.\r\n\r\nFirst,
    I realize that trying to do a four-weight face in a short timespan is stupid and
    likely to fail or go horribly wrong. And even moreso as an undergrad project at
    school with no type designers on staff. But sanity and moderation are not my strong
    points. To be frank: I expect this typeface will likely come out looking light
    eight miles of cow shit, and that really doesn\u2019t bother me. This is a learning
    experience. \r\n\r\nSecond, I\u2019m really interested in workflow and interpolation/blending.
    Right now, I see three options:\r\n\r\n1: Draw light and bold, blend them to get
    regular, blend regular and bold to be get semibold.\r\n2: Teach myself multiple
    master next to the pool while I\u2019m vacationing in Mexico. \r\n3: Buy superpolator
    and teach myself that while I\u2019m by the pool in Mexico.\r\n\r\nAnyway, suggestions
    are welcome!"
  created: '2007-11-24 01:05:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "According to your criteria, Cheltenham was the first multi-platform typeface:\r\n\r\n1.
    Developed concurrently for foundry and machine composition\r\n2. Drawn with microdetailed
    serif structure (s-curve bracket) to provide visual interest at display size--an
    early Benton-pantograph drawn face, and...\r\n3. At text size, sturdy construction
    held up on emasculating coated stock, and in crude process (halftone) knockouts
    and surprints of the era, and poorly registered multi-color printing, while fine
    details nonetheless looked smart, and...\r\n4. On uncoated stock, small x-height
    provided elegant proportions.  \r\n5. Large family for all occasions.\r\n6. Short
    descenders because focus of character recognition is on upper half of lower case
    letters (your \"highly legible\").\r\n7. Signature characters are \"intentionally
    dissimilar\" -- spurred A and G, quirky g.\r\n\r\nSo your origin-theory \"as identity
    programs and typography converged\" doesn't hold up -- a case of recency.\r\nFavoring
    technological determinism, I would say that media convergence in the late 19th
    century prompted Cheltenham's multi-platformism, and that relationship is probably
    a general principle, occurring most noticably in times of rapid technological
    change when a new media assimilates older media."
  created: '2007-11-24 01:32:24'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Thanks need\u2014that\u2019s the kind of informed\u2014and unflinching\u2014feedback
    I\u2019m looking for.\r\n\r\nI admit to recency and technological determinism,
    but feel it is important. While Cheltenham is a large family with clearly distinguishable
    letterforms, it was\u2014at least as far as I know\u2014developed for metal setting
    on paper. There is a big difference between that and, say, FF Info, which was
    designed to work in small sizes and large, backlit signs. In the days of Cheltenham
    a signpainter could certainly have been hired to paint it onto a signboard, but
    that\u2019s hardly the same thing. I probably need to state this very directly
    and up front."
  created: '2007-11-24 01:46:47'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2007-11-24 02:58:49'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "You're planning to make a linear type (so-called sans serif) or seriffed
    (non-linear) creature? Reference to Helvetica, Univers and Frutiger suggests a
    general absence of serifs.\r\n\r\nWould a heavy or extra-bold weight allow more
    pronounced demonstration of the multi-platform approach? Heavy linears fit extreme
    display use like magazine and brochure mastheads, signage etc. That would involve
    more work, and if it were me I would skip the poolside scene in Mexico, work like
    a dog and get the thing made, then go south when the ink is dry.\r\n\r\nj a m
    e s"
  created: '2007-11-24 04:13:11'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Hey, James,\r\n\r\nYour thesis proposal sounds interesting. I have my doubts
    about the appropriateness of the term \"multi-platform\" -- when I read it, the
    first thing that came to mind was OpenType fonts, which work on more than one
    computer platform (i.e., Macintosh and Windows)... It might sound confusing to
    your classmates and profs, too. Maybe someone here can propose a more accurate
    term, one that will not cause confusion. You are talking about very versatile
    typefaces that work well in diverse mediums.\r\n\r\nAs to the problem of developing
    a typeface in such a short timespan, perhaps you could limit the work even more
    -- i.e., to just a few key characters, ones that would be characteristic in any
    typeface... H, R, O, A, etc. Or enough to spell out HAMBURGERFONTIVS, HANDGLOVES
    or (insert your own testword here).\r\n\r\nOne more... I don't know if I would
    call Helvetica a superfamily... perhaps Helvetica Neue fits that bill."
  created: '2007-11-24 04:30:09'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "@James: Skipping the trip to Mexico, is unfortunately, not an option. I\u2019m
    going because my significant other works 60+ hour weeks at a law firm and needs
    the break more than I do. \r\n\r\n@Ricardo: To clarify, I picked the term multiplatform
    because my professor doesn\u2019t like the term \u201Dinformation type\u201C that
    already tends to be used for this genre. Multimedia would be a better term, but
    that one is taken, too. Anyway, I have no qualms about picking a better term,
    but I have had a hard time finding one that does not already refer to something
    else. Versatile types might be better, but I\u2019m not sure it\u2019s specific
    enough for non-designers to understand. But then again, it would be less confusing.\r\n\r\nAnd
    one thing to keep in mind about the time is that I don\u2019t really know what
    I\u2019m doing, so I\u2019ll save a lot of time not working on all the little
    things that experienced type designers slave away at. I can worry about making
    the font good in the time after graduation.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-24 04:57:29'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "multi-use\r\nmulti-medium\r\nmulti-assignment\r\npan-application\r\npan-media\r\nmulti-functional\r\nmulti-purpose\r\npan-functional\r\nmulti-role\r\nmulti-mission\r\nmulti-utility\r\npan-utility\r\n\r\nAlso
    try: \"multiple\"\r\n\r\nMaking all 26 letters for upper and lower case is essential,
    in my experience, because you're designing a team that has to work together in
    almost every concievable combination, and the design of one glyph often influences
    or determines the design of other glyphs. Often.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-11-24 05:00:51'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "James, re: Mexico. Understood. Same situation crops up for me all the time,
    with wifey travelling a lot for her work.\r\n\r\nDon't sweat the small stuff.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-11-24 05:03:59'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<strong>multi-role</strong> (or multirole)\r\n\r\nThere's also the question
    of an italic. A truly capable multi-role type system needs a contrast font for
    effective  text use. Possibly you could mention italics in the printed materials
    but not show them, and make the italic font post grad.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-11-24 07:15:17'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I would look at a bit at the Compatil typeface; this brief has already been
    attempted by typeface designes and foundries. The Compatil family was also initially
    released without Italics. First came just uprights, then obliques, then italics,
    over a period of years. Note also that Compatil's first brochures were all targeted
    at business people and not designers. Maybe you can learn some things to do and
    also maybe not do by looking at this typeface. I know every senior wants to re-invent
    the wheel, but some work has been done on your wheel already ;-) Good luck with
    the project! Really, I mean it!\r\n\r\nIf you have between now and May, that is
    enough time to finish a prototype. Just make sure you show your sketches to right
    people! It doesn't mean jack that the Corcoran has no type people. You have the
    Internet. But all feedback isn't equal; you need to send it to people who can
    give you exact feedback that is helpful. Also, DC is rather type poor as far as
    Northeastern cities go, but Terry Biddle and Chris Lozos are there, which is a
    good foundation to make it stronger. I'd get them in a as local advisors to your
    thesis. Or something."
  created: '2007-11-24 09:37:44'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "That's interesting! I will work on almost the same thesis next year for my
    diploma at the Bauhaus Universtity Weimar.\r\nThe difference is, that I will focus
    on problems today's multiplatform families haven't solved. \r\nLet's stay in touch!\r\n\r\nRalf\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-24 12:29:52'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Possibly you could mention italics\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s
    something I will need to address, because people keep asking about it. It amazes
    me how many people, even designers, assume that an italic just involves slanting
    the letters and drawing a few new lowercase letter.\r\n\r\nThanks for the information
    about Compatil, Dan. I\u2019ll try and track down some of those brochures\u2014can
    you recommend anyone at Linotype who might be able to help if nobody here in DC
    has them in a collection?\r\n\r\n<cite>If you have between now and May, that is
    enough time to finish a prototype.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf only! I have until March!
    Fortunately I have a light class load, my boss is a former grad and very understanding,
    and being undergrad work, it doesn\u2019t have to be perfect.\r\n\r\nYour work
    sounds very interesting, Ralf. If you need help with research, I\u2019ll be happy
    to pass along my bibliography or talk about anything: james.puckett@gmail.com\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    my coffee is kicking in, so it\u2019s time to sit down and draw some more letters!"
  created: '2007-11-24 15:37:28'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>multi-purpose</em>\r\n\r\nI like that one -- thanks for the list, James.
    Multiple-purpose sounds good to me, too.\r\n\r\n<em>Making all 26 letters for
    upper and lower case is essential, in my experience...</em>\r\n\r\nYeah... good
    point, James. Shame on me for suggesting a shortcut!  :-)"
  created: '2007-11-24 15:45:44'
- author:
    name: pugnax
  body: Just chiming in on the "multiplatform" thing since I'm not particularly qualified
    to speak on any of this. I too was initially confused by the term "multiplatform"
    until I started reading your thesis statement. Shortly into it I thought, "Oh,
    he means multi-purpose or multi-use." Good to see others seem to agree with that
    analysis. I personally feel that "multi-purpose" will cause the least confusion,
    since it seems to be the most descriptive, concise, and accurate term for what
    you are describing.
  created: '2007-11-24 16:38:01'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Shame on me for suggesting a shortcut!</em>\r\n\r\nNot at all Ricardo.
    You had the best intentions. I like you a lot.\r\n\r\nMutipurpose is good, yes
    it fits. The military use \"multi-role\" when describing fighter planes. James,
    you could nail it by being more specific. How about \"Multi-role information typeface
    system\". To be conventional you could replace \"system\" with \"family\", and
    if your prof really hates \"information\" leave that word out.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-11-24 16:54:39'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: 'James, I sent to an e-mail about some contacts offline. '
  created: '2007-11-24 19:55:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I am quite skeptical about the idea of multi-purpose type. If you can design
    it one one purpose and it works very well, that's great. And then if people can
    find another use for it, that all the better. But I would think that having two
    briefs for the typeface might be like trying to chase two rabbits at the same
    time :)\r\n\r\n\r\nOn Compatil, the attempt seems to be to have many related typefaces
    to meet different needs, which is a different thing than what you seem to have
    in mind. Also you might be interested in some negative reviews of Compatil on
    typophile: Jean-Francois Porchez pours acid on it in [[http://www.typophile.com/node/6848|this
    thread,]] with Erik Spiekermann chiming in. And [[http://www.typophile.com/node/16777|here]]
    Yves Peters adds his thumbs down. "
  created: '2007-11-24 23:26:34'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>But I would think that having two briefs for the typeface might be
    like trying to chase two rabbits at the same time</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s where
    families come in. There\u2019s also an inherent versatility in some features of
    type. Spiekermann brings that up in his essay about FF Info, noting that some
    of the features intended to make it more legible at large signs (eg signage) also
    work at extremely small sizes."
  created: '2007-11-25 00:21:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">There\u2019s also an inherent versatility in some features of type. \r\n\r\nI
    wouldn't rely on that too much. A similar point was made recently when David Berlow
    noted that Clearview, which has proved highly legible for road signs at a distance,
    has agate proportions--the proportions of the tiniest type for newspapers. True
    enough, but how many publications actually use FF Info for tiny type? Also I would
    think that you would want to adapt Clearview for an actual use as agate type.
    I don't know, maybe James M has already done it, but it's another brief. \r\n\r\nOptical
    sizing is in generally a matter not only of weight, but also width, contrast (for
    a serif at least), and spacing. So I think trying to take on different optical
    sizes or different purposes in one thesis may be too ambitious, as they are likely
    to require significantly different solutions.  "
  created: '2007-11-25 00:47:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "James,\r\n\r\nI don't know if you still plan on designing a family. I would
    limit it to just a few test glyphs. perhaps just Hamburgefontstiv or even just
    \"andos\". You have no idea how much work you are talking about! Better yet, just
    focus on analysis of existing families since there are no type designers at the
    Corcoran to help you or even understand your pain. Focus on comparing a true multi-usage
    family and one that is not to show the differences. Please limit your scope before
    you get overwhelmed and save yourself the depression. Keep us all updated with
    drafts!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-11-25 01:26:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "You're misusing the word \"platform\".\r\nA multi-platform type is one that
    works on Mac and PC."
  created: '2007-11-26 05:13:19'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I\u2019m finally getting around to posting an update. I\u2019ve been working
    away on this project for months, and it\u2019s gone relatively well. I did have
    to scale back my absurdly ambitious plans to a single weight, presented in an
    eight page specimen, but that was still a hell of a lot of work. My thesis idea
    eventually derailed into a murk as I wasn\u2019t being critical enough of my own
    work or what I was reading; the relationship between corporate identity and typographic
    versatility is tenuous at best and I was a moron for not catching that about five
    months ago. But in the long run it was a great personal journey, with a lot of
    learning. \r\n\r\nAs for the type design, it went well after some early stumbling,
    mostly with help from a new faculty member at the Corcoran. And of course I owe
    thanks to Mexico\u2019s awesome coffee growers, who have fueled many afternoons
    and weekends of work. You can the design at it\u2019s present state, in a specimen
    I working on, attached above. Spacing/kerning are still a little wonky, especially
    in the caps, but a few more passes will clean that up ;)\r\n\r\nAnd of course,
    thanks to Nick Shinn who, back at Typecon, convinced me to go beyond just drawing
    a grotesque.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-01 02:36:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Nice varied shapes, but kept harmonious. Good work!
  created: '2008-04-01 03:43:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Thanks William. I\u2019ll make sure to post about the opening nite reception
    for you and all the other area typophiles."
  created: '2008-04-02 16:19:58'
date: '2007-11-24 00:59:02'
title: 'The Rise of Multiplatform types: my thesis (updated, with specimen)'

---
