---
author:
  name: David Rault
  picture: 112608
body: "Dear Typophiles\r\n\r\nThere is a taboo, a subject about which almost nobody
  talks in the circles of typography, and the few ones who tried to were quickly bashed
  and sent to oblivion.\r\n\r\nThe subject is: Paul Renner, Futura, and the nazis.\r\n\r\nI'm
  going to make it short, using the information I have verified, totally or partially:
  Paul Renner was the director of a printing school in Germany, and He was very close
  to the Bauhaus movement - though never being officially part of it. In the late
  20's, He made some harsh comments on the nazi regime in a book. Subsequently, he
  was banned from his school when Hitler's powers rose. While most of the Bauhaus
  people flew out of Germany after it was closed by the nazis, Renner stayed in. In
  1941, Goebbels understood that the Blackletter, until then promoted as a vibrant
  traditional pangermanic font, was too hard to read on the display panels and any
  outdoor signage, such as roads signs and so on, thus putting a serious brake on
  Germany's taking over Europe. He then issued the order to ban the use of Blackletter,
  suddenly described as a \"jewish style\" (!!), and realized that the sans serif
  of the Bauhaus era were pretty much sticking to the canons of national socialism.
  The Third Reich then began to use... Futura. I have some official third reich documents
  using Futura: letterheads, nsdap handbuch, door signs, even an enigma operating
  manual. Renner is known for having said that He was very sad about this misuse of
  Futura, but other sources prove that towards the end of the war, He was working
  closely with Albert Speer on the creation of an official type for the Third Reich...
  And Futura was so much associated with the nazi Germany at that time that after
  the war, Maximilen Vox tried really hard to force Peignot to distribute the font,
  which He reluctantly did after lots of discussion and after renaming it \"Europe\",
  for some years.\r\n\r\nIt's very hard to get any more info about this era. Every
  biographer of Renner tends to avoid this gap.\r\n\r\nWhy?\r\n\r\ndr"
comments:
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I doubt that the Reich government adopted Futura in 1941\u201342 because
    they liked it more than any other specific Roman typeface. Rather, since Futura
    was one of the most popular typefaces from 1928\u20131933 (and even thereafter),
    there was a lot of it around.\r\n\r\nBy the late stages of the war, most type
    foundries had had their production switched over to wartime support, meaning that
    there wasn't any new type being cast. You had to used type you already had. Type
    wears down and goes bad. So if you want to use something for official uses, you'd
    better pick something that a lot of printers have in quantity or you can forget
    about design guidelines and unity.\r\n\r\nRenner remained in Germany in part because
    he felt too old to be able to start all over again in another country. I also
    don't think his foreign language skills were so keen (although, that didn't stop
    Mies). You should also remember that almost all German artists and designers stayed
    in the country, and that many of them also served in the military (either willfully
    or unwillfully) leading some of them to their deaths and or imprisionment and
    deaths. What I'm getting that is that it was the norm not to flee. These days,
    we hold up a few famous names, like Gropius, Mies, Bayer, etc. who emigrated.
    But Germany had a huge designer class before 1933, and most of them stayed put,
    even a lot of them who didn't have it very well at all with the regime.\r\n\r\nIf
    Renner \"compromised\" himself by working on a government typeface, that would
    be unfortunate, but it isn't really damning and it doesn't warrant comparison
    with someone like Speer, who designed projects that used slave labor, for instance.
    We can remember it, but I don't see how it warrants a rewriting of the Renner
    biography. Some people's cases do need revisiting. But Renner? This seems like
    a hunt for some fresh red meat."
  created: '2007-11-24 09:59:36'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Dan:\r\n\r\nThanks for the comments. I certainly don't want to rewrite Renner's
    autobiography, for I'm sure He didnt willingly work with the 3rd reich, and I
    do know how easy it is to judge these events with today's eyes, I guess for him
    it was just a question of surviving the best He could. I'm just rather curious
    about the fact that this is truely poorly documented. One point I don't agree
    with you is when you say that the nazis used Futura mainly because it was available
    in large quantities in the printhouses: I think this is unaccurate, there was
    plenty of types available in the same amount, and the design of Futura can indeed
    be qualified as \"fascist\", not in a provocative way but in a serious, analytic
    way: don't you think?\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2007-11-24 10:10:18'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>\r\n>I certainly don\u2019t want to rewrite Renner\u2019s autobiography</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    you certainly shouldn't re-write his autobiography :-) One writes an autobiography
    oneself! I was just talking about his biography, stories about his life that others
    have written, and stories which we tell ourselves now. One could rewrite that,
    but one should also have good reasons in order to do so.\r\n\r\n<em>\r\n>I think
    this is unaccurate, there was plenty of types available in the same amount</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    Memphis for instance, and maybe Venus, and certainly a lot of real serif typefaces.
    These were all used during 1933\u20131945 as well. The Nazis were equal-opportunity
    exploiters. They used whatever they could to get their message across with. If
    you do a little searching (with Google?), you can find a thread where Andreas
    Seidel (Cottbus, Germany) expands upon which typefaces were available during that
    that time, and how they were used, or rather misused. This has been a rather popular
    topic on Typophile over its seven-year history\u2026\r\n\r\n<em>\r\n>and the design
    of Futura can indeed be qualified as \u201Cfascist\u201D, not in a provocative
    way \r\n>but in a serious, analytic way: don\u2019t you think?</em>\r\n\r\nNo,
    I don't agree with this at all. I don't see what is fascist about it. Sure, the
    concept was universal and forward-looking, and is inspired two two sorts of ancient
    imperialisms (Imperial Rome and the early Holy Roman Empire), but that doesn't
    make it fascist. I think that is reading too much into how it was used, and trying
    to deposit some of that n the minds and hands of its creators ex post facto."
  created: '2007-11-24 10:32:08'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>, Goebbels understood that the Blackletter  \u2026 was too hard to
    read on the display panels and any outdoor signage \u2026 </cite>\r\n\r\nThe common
    belief is, that it was banned because it was too hard to read by the people in
    the conquered territories, who were not used to read it.\r\nBlackletter typefaces
    are not harder to read per se!\r\n\r\n<cite>And Futura was so much associated
    with the nazi \u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nI have never heard that before. When blackletter
    typefaces were banned, every printer simply used the other typefaces that were
    common and available at the time. Those were serif typefaces as well as sans serif
    typefaces like Futura. \r\n\r\n<cite>and the design of Futura can indeed be qualified
    as \u201Cfascist\u201D, not in a provocative way but in a serious, analytic way:
    don\u2019t you think?\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nAre your serious???\r\n\r\nRalf\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-24 10:36:50'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>\r\n>Someone could have called it also bolshevik</em>\r\n\r\nCome to
    think about it, I'm rather sure several people did! I doubt that anyone agrees
    with them anymore ;-)"
  created: '2007-11-24 10:37:22'
- author:
    name: rubs
  body: "&gt;<em> design of Futura can indeed be qualified as \u201Cfascist\u201D,
    not in a provocative way but in a serious, analytic way</em>\r\n\r\nSomeone could
    have called it also bolshevik, absolutist, totalitarian.\r\nSo can you elaborate
    on your analytical use of \"fascist\"?\r\n\r\nEdit:\r\nIs that linked for you
    to the abstract, unhuman nature of the design?"
  created: '2007-11-24 10:45:24'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: "Europe, the French version of Futura, was produced by Deberny & Peignot in
    1930 \u2013 even before the nazis seized power in Germany \u2013 not after the
    war : therefore, its release cannot have generated much debate between Maximilien
    Vox and Charles Peignot about Futura being a \"nazi\" typeface.\r\nAnd the 1941
    order to ban Blackletter was not issued by Goebbels but by the office of Martin
    Bormann, by the way."
  created: '2007-11-24 11:15:32'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "rubs, dan, celeste:\r\n\r\nthanks for your posts, some i disagree with, some
    are interesting and make me change my mind.\r\n\r\ni cant reply now but i will
    soon,\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2007-11-24 11:30:26'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "I come in but I don\u2019t dare, although it was widely adopted by the advertising
    community and commercial press, Futura was never widely used as the book type
    Renner had envisioned, as far as I know, Futura was orphaned by political events,
    all its refinement, reflects its Weimar origins in its resemblance to the unadorned
    scripts of pre-imperial Roman and renaissance Florentine republics, and its humanism
    obscured by its mechanical perfection."
  created: '2007-11-24 13:11:01'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "The way I remember it (and I looked it up), the book about Renner (by Burke)
    states that he had quite a hard time under the nazi's, being blacklisted and his
    state pension withdrawn. Only the fact that he received royalties from his typedesigns
    and intermittent work kept him and his family afloat.\r\nRe Speer and Renners
    involvement in a state-santioned letterform, Burke writes that this was a tangential
    involvement, in cooperation with the Bauer Foundry. It seems that he was paid
    10000 marks, but for what is unclear. To put things into perspective: a lot of
    anti-nazi artists and craftsmen worked for the Generalbauinspektor (Speer) \u2014
    it was considered to be non-political. Among the non-nazis employed were Peter
    Behrens and Paul Bontaz. (Burke, pp 168\u20139).\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen
    BNO"
  created: '2007-11-24 13:55:43'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The Third Reich then began to use... Futura</cite>\r\n\r\nAs Burke
    notes in his book, the Nazis used whatever typefaces they felt like before the
    official ban on blackletter. Sure they used blackletter most of the time, but
    keep in mind that the Nazis were opportunists first and ideologues second, so
    there\u2019s plenty of pre-1941 Nazi ephemera set in roman letters."
  created: '2007-11-24 15:24:52'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "OK, so:\r\n\r\n- Sorry for the 'autobiography', I - of course - meant biography.\r\n\r\n-
    You name other typefaces, such as Memphis et al, but the only sans serif I've
    seen used on official papers and signs from the NSDAP between 1941 and 1945 is
    Futura.\r\n\r\n- Why do i describe Futura's design 'fascist' : fascism cn be shortly
    described as a totalitarian rejection of humanism, and by extension a celebration
    of purity (purity of the race, and so on). Futura, in my opinion, fits the requirements:
    its shapes are very geometric, very radical, it also, in a way, 'rejects' the
    humanist serifs, slabs and even humanistic sans: it bears the influence of the
    entity over the person, of the machine over the human being. Its shapes are pure,
    straight, simplified and rationalized to the extreme. It is, according to me,
    a typographic metaphor of the fascist ideology - but don't misunderstand me, I
    LOVE Futura.\r\n\r\n- About europe: I made a mistake regarding the time it was
    introduced in France, and here what Fernand Baudin says in la Revue Suisse de
    l'Imprimerie n.1, dated 2001: ' Charles Peignot renamed Futura Europe in order
    to mask its german origins. Maximilien Vox said more than once, in front of me
    and other people, how hard it has been for him to persuade Peignot to go to Frankfurt,
    at Bauer, in order to negociate with the germans. Vox even threatened to resign
    from the board of Deberny & Peignot '. \r\n\r\nAgain, thanks for your comments.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2007-11-24 16:00:31'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> Charles Peignot renamed Futura Europe in order to mask its german origins.</em>\r\n\r\nWeird,
    I had the feeling Bauer named Futura Futura in order to mask its german origins!"
  created: '2007-11-24 16:46:29'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>It is, according to me, a typographic metaphor of the fascist ideology
    </cite>\r\n\r\nPeople will always mix up the design of typefaces and the context
    in which it they are used. Here in Germany blackletter typefaces are avoided until
    the present day, because they are considered \"nazi typefaces\" \u2013 which is
    of course stupid, because they were around for centuries and the nazis just used
    them for less than 10 years. \r\n\r\nA typeface itself is never a political statement.
    Every political connotation is based on the USE of a typeface, NEVER on it's design.
    Futura is connected to the ideas of the Bauhaus. The pure design was not political,
    nor was it non-humanistic. The opposite is true. The designers at the Bauhaus
    believed, that simplified letters would be easier to read and easier to learn.
    This was a important issue at that time in Germany because there were 3(!) alphabets
    in use at the same time (Roman, Blackletter and German Cursive). So it was a very
    humanistic approach to come up with a new, simpified design. "
  created: '2007-11-24 16:59:35'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Alessandro's point about Futura's origins in the Weimar republic is true,
    even tho the idealogy of racial purity and other trends that eventually became
    Nazism had been building since <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ernst_Haeckel\"
    target=\"_new\">Haeckle's monism</a>. As far as its design goes, Futura was at
    least partly product of Bauhaus ideals, anchoring it chronologically in the Weimar
    republic era. What was going on in the minds of German people at the time Renner
    concieved Futura is something else.\r\n\r\nAlessandro can you expand on the statement
    <em>\"...resemblance to the unadorned scripts of pre-imperial Roman and renaissance
    Florentine republics, and its humanism obscured by its mechanical perfection.\"</em>?
    \ Can you name some of these unadorned scripts from 1) The renaissance Florentine
    republic, and 2) Pre-Imperial Rome? I guess you mean everyday current handwriting
    from pre-Imperial Rome, and Merovingian-Carolingian as the basis for the lettera
    antica hand that gave rise to humanist roman typefaces by Griffo and Jenson.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-11-24 17:35:07'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>...at that time in Germany because there were 3(!) alphabets in use at
    the same time (Roman, Blackletter and German Cursive). So it was a very humanistic
    approach to come up with a new, simpified design.</em>\r\n\r\nThanks Ralf, you've
    answered my question (which I didn't post) about \"humanism obscured by mechanical
    perfection\". I knew it sounded right but wasn't sure how it was achieved.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-11-24 17:39:58'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Equating geometric type with fascism is really missing the mark. The Constructivist
    notions behind geometric design were entirely humanist. Malevich worked out these
    notions of simple shapes and color as an attempt to create universal forms of
    expression that anyone could understand, this was a reaction the nihilism spreading
    through Europe and Russia as a result of the first World War and the implosion/annihilation
    of the Russian aristocracy. Everything Malevich did was rooted in the folk art
    of the Ukranian peasants he grew up around, as he explored Cubism and Cezzanism
    he broke art down further and further, trying to make it less local and less ephemeral.
    When Lissizky spread these ideas across Europe, including at the Bauhaus, likely
    including Munich where Tschichold and Renner would have picked it up, it was anything
    but fascist, he was working to create an egalitarian world that would be more
    accepting of the Russian Jews, himself included.
  created: '2007-11-24 17:48:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "As Burke's wonderful book about Renner explains, Futura was as much as product
    of Renner's striving for a classical, timeless feeling, as of his acceptance of
    the idea that simple geometrical forms are basic to perception. The tension between
    the two ideas is what makes Futura great, whereas the actual Bauhaus faces are
    not. \r\n\r\nI agree that the design it has nothing to do with Nazism.   "
  created: '2007-11-24 20:35:42'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Well, I know that the Bauhaus people never ever had yhis idea in mind, that
    the idea was to make a legible type and so on, but i think they were wrong. Even
    Tschichold, who wrote ''The new typography'', changed his mind some years later
    and admitted most of their theories were flawed. When you look at the nazi swastika,
    the Volkswagen early logo, their structure is very close to Futura's.\r\n\r\nBut
    hey, whatever. We don't agree on subjective points, that's ok. Thank you anyway
    for giving me historical precisions about all this.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2007-11-25 16:04:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">the nazi swastika ...structure is very close to Futura\u2019s\r\n\r\nI think
    you are way off the mark here. They both have a monoline feel, but there are lots
    of fundamental differences that I see. Some of these I would call 'inter-subjective'
    in that almost everybody reacts the same way. And some are objective. \r\n\r\nThe
    most fundamental of these is that Renner was trying for a classical feel, and
    the swastika is romantic (provoking strong emotion) and belligerent. Renner, influenced
    by the discovery that the eye reads when it is at rest, wanted to avoid any sense
    of motion in his letters. He even tried to have a square topped m and n, so that
    there would be no sense of the pen's motion in an arch branching from a stem.
    \r\n\r\nBy contrast, the innovation in the Nazi symbol was Hitler's twisting the
    swastika--which is always oriented horzontal-vertical in Hindu and Buddhist iconogrophy--by
    45 degrees, and having it on a white circle. Having the symbol rest on a point,
    and within a circle, gives it a sense of motion, like it is a buzz saw that is
    going to cut up whatever is in its way. \r\n\r\nAlso Futura is not actually geometrical
    and monoline. It is very cleverly full of tapers and adjustments. For example,
    the X, which would most resemble the swastika if it were trying for that feel,
    is quite different. The bottom left to top right strokes are tapered toward the
    center, and they are not cut off at right angles, but along the horizontal. The
    geometry is objectively different, and subjectively quite different, giving a
    restful, balanced look, rather than an aggressive, dynamic look. \r\n\r\nIn sum,
    emotionally they are quite different, and this is based on objective differences.
    \r\n\r\nAs others have said, the Nazis used all kinds of typefaces, and that doesn't
    mean the the typefaces were Nazi. For example, black letter, which is most associated
    with Nazism, was developed by Christian monks, and Nazism was anti-Christian.
    \r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2007-11-25 17:24:07'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I would like to put my word in for Ralph who hit the nail on the head when
    he said :<cite> Every political connotation is based on the USE of a typeface,
    NEVER on it\u2019s design.</cite>\r\n\r\nExpanding on that point; I want to add
    that saying that a design is essentially 'fascist' or 'French' or 'femme' is a
    reading or interpretation of the design. Put another way it's just a cultural
    overlay. This kind of imposition is unavoidable in my view. None of us are without
    visual culture and it's network of associations. However, we can be aware of the
    process and realize that our overlay says more about the reader and the culture
    of the reader than about the design. This also means that there are not going
    to be more or less common readings of a design but those readings shift with time.
    But they are still just readings - and readings that will change. This shifting
    over time points to the non-essential nature of the design itself. This might
    seem like hair splitting but it isn't. It actually cleans things up enormously.
    Obviously people will continue to associate a design and their reading of it and
    even conflate them. But conflation is a mistake."
  created: '2007-11-25 19:20:24'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Too bad the swastika has bad vibes \u2014 it's a great symbol on its own.
    One simple form repeated four times. Recognizable, simple, holds up to scaling
    up or down. \r\nI bet there are a lot of multinationals that would pay Wolff Olins
    heavy dough for this; if it just wasn't tainted\u2026\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen
    BNO"
  created: '2007-11-25 22:39:18'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<em>but the only sans serif I\u2019ve seen used on official papers and signs
    from the NSDAP between 1941 and 1945 is Futura.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, you obviously
    haven't seen very much or you haven't looked very closely.\r\nThere were dozens
    of Grotesques around\_- every foundry had their own. Erbar was there before Futura,
    and there were Kristall, Super, Berthold, Nobel, Neuzeit, to name but a few of
    the geometric designs. Most used for everyday jobbing work were faces like Akzidenz
    Grotesk, Scheltersche (that's what the Bauhaus had in their cases), Block, Hermes,
    Woellmersche, and other heavy-duty type.\r\n\r\nAs has been pointed out, the Nazis
    were nothing if not pragmatic technocrats. They would employ anything that served
    their purpose and make up an appropriate ideology on the fly (like declaring Blackletter
    to be \"Schwabacher Judenletter\"). One of the reasons for abolishing Fraktur
    was the fact that the printers had simply run out of founders type, while Monotype
    casters weren\u2019t used very much in Germany.\r\n\r\nFutura, apart from the
    philosophical approach behind its restrained, pseudo-geometric shapes, still shows
    quite a bit of Art Deco influence, a prevalent style in the early 20s. Just look
    at the A, M, N, V, W in the lighter weights with their points protruding beyond
    the baseline! Futura caps, properly spaced, still look elegant in stainless steel
    across any entrance.\r\n\r\nI have the complete range of Klimsche Jahrb\xFCcher,
    the annual for the German printing and typesetting industry, from 1921 until 1941,
    and they give you a better impression of what went on in the industry than reproduction
    in design books.\r\n\r\nIn short: your attempt to connect Renner and the Nazis
    is ill-conceived, badly researched and altogether too transparent"
  created: '2007-11-27 04:32:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "David, you might be interested in a previous Typophile discussion, Helvetica
    and fascism:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/8856"
  created: '2007-11-27 06:28:00'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Erik: \r\n\r\nThank you for the post. This thread was actually an attempt
    for me to know the truth from the rumors, and everyone here contributed to give
    me a right explanation, which you summarized quite well in your post. Though,
    the Futura use I've been talking about doesn't come from reproduction in design
    books, but from an actual NSDAP book which was distributed to the high ranking
    officers, and which is dated 1942. It is an original item, from which I could
    scan some pages if you are interested. Anyway, thanks for the input, it is very
    much appreciated.\r\n\r\nNick:\r\n\r\nThanks, that was actually very interesting,
    and so are your essays online.\r\n\r\nYou have to understand that I'm currently
    writing a book about typography and i have to double, triple check every piece
    of information i put inside... so, dont be surprised if from time to time i come
    around and say something that sounds very stupid and inaccurate. it's just an
    information which, at this point, has not been verified.\r\n\r\nthanks everyone,\r\ndr"
  created: '2007-11-27 08:09:10'
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: "David, with all respect due:\r\nIt's not that there aren't any examples of
    modern typefaces and page layouts used by nazi publications, take later \u201ENeue
    Linie\u201C for example, it's just that your argument doesn't work at all as an
    argument, as you're mixing up different categories: Humanist in type is a purely
    stylistic term, while Anit-humanist, autoritarian are purely ideological terms,
    which can't be compared on the same level, as others have stated before. You conclude
    ideological implifications from purely stylistic observations which you don't
    even care to put in the context of the time they were created. You're just drawing
    superficial parallels: The way you derive your conclusion would consequently make
    Rembrandt a nazi painter, simply because G\xF6ring liked him.\r\nI strongly recommend
    you to read some of the books Renner wrote, \u201EKulturbolschewismus\u201C, even
    \u201EDie Kunst der Typographie\u201C should give you a clearer picture of Renner's
    mindset and motivations as well as some background to Futura and what it was meant
    to be. \r\nSensitive subject? No way \u2013 You aren't touching a taboo, you're
    just missing the point.\r\n\r\nP.S. Have you read a book \u201EHow to upset Germans\u201C
    recently? ;-)"
  created: '2007-11-27 10:19:08'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "P.S. Have you read a book \u201EHow to upset Germans\u201C recently? ;-)\r\n\r\n>
    no, and i'm sorry if i did, that was absolutely not my intention. what did I say
    to do so?\r\n\r\nand please check again what i wrote above. I never ever said
    or even implied that renner was nazi, do not put these words in my mouth. please,
    read again what i said: i'm basically just asking questions, and you are crushing
    me as if i made the definitive judgments that you derive from my posts... please
    read carefully what i wrote: i said that i know renner didnt work with speer willingly,
    i know he criticized the nazis and was banned from teachng because of that, i
    know he was everything but nazi... i simply asked your opinion about some ideas
    that I am not the only one in the world to ask myself (fascist design etc), i
    may be wrong, i realize i am wrong, but... cease fire !\r\n\r\nthanks,\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2007-11-27 11:24:28'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "And just for the record, here is the list of documents I've read before opening
    this thread (a big mistake i guess):\r\n\r\n- renner and the art of typography
    (christopher burke)\r\n- an article by fernand baudin in la revue suisse de l'imprimerie
    n.1, 2001\r\n- an article about paul renner by michel wlassikof, etapes, 2001\r\n-
    an original copy of the nsdap organisation manual, 1942\r\n- a letterhead from
    an nsdap office in munich, 1942\r\n- an instruction sheet pasted inside an enigma
    encrypting machine, 1943 (memorial museum, normady, france)\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2007-11-27 11:28:59'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I don't know David, when I read your first post, the feeling I got was that
    you were stating: \"the research for my book shows that there was a nazi connection
    with Renner! Now prove me wrong!\" I would prefer the other direction, more along
    the lines of \"I don't think that there is any connection between the NSDAP and
    Renner, except maybe the connection of the oppressor to the victim. Does anyone
    know of any connections I'm not aware of?\" The answer to this would have been
    a simple \"no.\" Instead, we have to try and prove to you that Renner wasn't a
    Nazi, which is sort of silly. Sort of like your other thread, where you say, \"Goudy
    is a thief? Disprove my statement!\" Whatever happened to the presumption of innocence?
    I hope that you and your publisher will employ good fact checkers for your book.\r\n\r\nThe
    sources you mention above (i.e., three disparate artefacts from 1942 and 1943)
    aren't enough to prove any sort of case. Erik is right, you should put his statement
    in your book."
  created: '2007-11-27 12:04:42'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Dan, I just had some doubts about this whole thing and I wanted to make it
    right, so I asked for your opinion and points of view. Renner did work for Albert
    Speer, I wanted to know more about this. I also said that I've read this \"Goudy
    is a thief\" thing, and it was a big surprise for me, so i was wondering if anyone
    has some reliable documents about this. \r\n\r\nMe and my publisher have very
    good fact checkers, and nyway i will not say anything about this in my book: it
    is not a type encyclopedia, just a manual for choosing a typeface, aimed at people
    who don't know much. it is accurate and practical but vertainly doesnt go into
    questionable stuff. everything inside is checked. Here on this specialists forum,
    i just let go and ask and say things which are more vague or unverified. this
    is a forum, not a book or an encyclopedia, a place for discussing, correct me
    if im wrong.\r\n\r\nAnd again, please read my posts, for i never tried to PROVE
    anything. i am just TALKING and ASKING.\r\n\r\nI know Erik is right, I said so
    before you did, as you can read above. I will not put his statement in the book
    though, for the reason I told you: it is not the subject.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2007-11-27 12:17:15'
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: "David, again with all respect due and also just for the record,\r\ni didn't
    mean to be harsh at you, but at your argument:\r\nYou did state that the design
    of Futura, with it's simplified and rationalized shapes, are a typographic metaphor
    of fascist ideology, which, as an argument, is short-circuited and derives an
    ideological statement from formal traits. One could also say that extreme rationalization
    is (or at least was seen and intended as - see my remarks re context of time)
    progressive, modern, libertarian, as it unchains man from historic restrictions.
    That argument would be at least as valid as yours.\r\nAgain, i strongly recommend
    to read something Renner himself has written, this might take you further than
    drawing conclusions from historical curiosities like instruction sheets to Enigma
    machines \u2013 i mean, what is this meant to imply? You're argumentation to me
    seems badly conducted and arbitrary, and that's what i was being harsh at."
  created: '2007-11-27 12:27:46'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: I think Dan Reynolds is writing about how the solution is indeed always in
    the problem, so making the right questions matters. I would say that using capitals
    matters, too, but this is maybe slightly off-topic here, so, Mr David R, it was
    not a misatke to post this thread, this is a design forum, and what is design
    if not a tool for education.
  created: '2007-11-27 12:31:18'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Franz, Alessandro:\r\n\r\nThanks for your posts.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2007-11-27 12:37:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I wouldn't trust a designer's rationale.\r\n\r\nThings have a life of their
    own, and more than one <em>auteur.</em>\r\nI would say that the unusual lower
    case letter forms of Futura that didn't survive the first cut are indicative of
    Renner's intentions to produce a radical design somewhat different than the actual
    end result--and when one looks at the rejected two-bowl \"g\", there's no way
    that could be considered modernist or reductive, in comparison to, say, Kabel
    or Erbar's \"g\". \r\nThen there are the \"typographic\" nuances, the refinements
    added to the letterforms by the foundry; joint adjustments, that sort of thing.\r\n\r\nFutura's
    strange combination of capitals that have the proportions of ancient Rome, with
    a \"schulebuch\" lower case, doesn't seem to exhibit any culturally-informed connection!--they
    just look cool together and happen to work nicely. So the design logic is entirely
    visual and right-brain."
  created: '2007-11-27 16:35:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Perhaps, David has recognized that it is the provocative question that gets
    the most responses here at Typophile and decided to go for that quantity in hopes
    of getting a bit of gold. \r\n\r\n'Miss Giggles' ( whoever she or he may be )
    used the same model of question composition and it certainly worked for her in
    terms of the scope of response. But it also diminished her standing at Typophile
    over time.\r\n\r\nDan & Franz, Nice posts. "
  created: '2007-11-27 17:07:57'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "BTW - David, was it page 13 of the book 'Fraktur Mon Amour' by Judith Schlansky
    that got you started with this query? It reads <cite>\" Hitler himself never liked
    gothic letterforms, they contradicted his aesthetic ideal of monumental modernism,
    something he saw better realized* in Paul Renner's Futura of 1928. \" </cite>\r\n\r\n*'realized'
    is misspelled in the book it seems.\r\n\r\nIn this case I think the author is
    bending over backwards to make a point about Blackletter...\r\n\r\nThe book itself
    seems pretty schnazzy so far. It just arrived."
  created: '2007-11-28 03:00:57'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "I have come in late (because I didn't dare at first!) to this great thread...\r\n\r\n<em>Also
    Futura is not actually geometrical and monoline. It is very cleverly full of tapers
    and adjustments.</em>\r\n\r\nWilliam: Thanks for pointing that out! Exactly.\r\n\r\n<em>P.S.
    Have you read a book \u201EHow to upset Germans\u201C recently?</em>\r\n\r\nfranzheidl:
    ROTFL! Too funny.\r\n\r\n<em>The book itself seems pretty schnazzy so far. It
    just arrived.</em>\r\n\r\nEben: I envy you (in a good way). I got to see a copy
    of <em>Fraktur Mon Amour</em> last year, and it is beautiful -- same goes for
    all of the books by that publisher. Someday..."
  created: '2007-11-28 05:02:16'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "I didnt read that book yet, i'll put my hands on it someday. Can you believe
    this author said this in a PUBLISHED book? You should burn her. Sure you would.\r\n\r\ndr
    - kidding / a little."
  created: '2007-11-28 07:52:09'
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: "I actually met her not too long ago, she survived more or less unharmed if
    i remember correctly, although i had a box of matches with me, mind.\r\nI'm with
    Eben regarding her argument re Futura/Blackletter though.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-28 09:53:48'
- author:
    name: optika
  body: "I think Kurt Schwitters used Futura as a typeface for the Hannover Council
    between 1929-34. Cannot find any pictures of this project, but i know his work
    was banned by the nazis and his typography replaced with blackletter. Point is:
    Futura was used by both sides.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-28 12:55:45'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Point is: Futura was used by both sides.\"\r\n\r\nWhich is probably why
    both sides lost and the Franklin Gothic users won, hu?\r\n\r\n\"capitals that
    have the proportions of ancient Rome, with a \u201Cschulebuch\u201D lower case,
    doesn\u2019t seem to exhibit any culturally-informed connection!\"\r\n\r\ny not?
    the Nazis, after all, took all from Rome they could get away with, before the
    Italians caught on?\r\n\r\n\"P.S. Have you read a book \u201EHow to upset Germans\u201C
    recently? ;-)\"\r\nNo, but I'd imagine speed limits'd be a good start. French
    food might be next. Then, I'd go for the jugular and make bartenders responsible
    for motor vehicle accidents around Octoberfest. \r\n\r\nBut seriously, I think
    it is a dangerous literary stretch to make any Creative in a totalitarian environment
    responsible when their work is adopted by evil \u2014 American airlines should
    not make me think less of the creators of Helvetica, should it?"
  created: '2007-11-28 13:51:57'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "And, hey, let's not forget the Futura-Volkswagen connection.  ;-)\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/20070305130731_6266.jpg]"
  created: '2007-11-28 19:08:22'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "<a href=\"http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/N/NAZI_ARCHIVE?SITE=WABEL&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT\">Vast
    Nazi archive opens to public</a>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-29 23:06:55'
- author:
    name: dinobib
    picture: 113842
  body: "Hi,\r\nI come very late in this topic.\r\nI am a french graphic design student
    and i do some research on the Futura typeface.\r\nI ever had a lot of things but
    i haven't find nazi document which use Futura, except a 36 poster for the referendum.\r\nSo,
    David, you said that you have lot of documents, i will appreciate if you could
    send me them.\r\nI have also heard that when nazi comes to Warsaw in 1939, they
    put the name of the train station in Futura but i can't find any images.\r\nI
    keep searching, the last link by David Hamuel is a bad link.\r\nThanks and sorry
    for my poor english."
  created: '2008-12-09 21:08:11'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Bonjour dinobib,\r\n\r\nJe n'ai pas ces documents avec moi tout de suite
    et je ne pourrai pas y acceder avant fin janvier (ils ne sont pas dans le meme
    pays que moi). Pour information, tu peux trouver ces documents au musee du Memorial
    (c'est la que je les ai trouves) a Caen. N'hesite pas a me contacter si tu as
    besoin de plus d'information: davidrault (a) gmail.com.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-12-19 09:35:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "David, quelqu'un a ras\xE9 vos accents!"
  created: '2008-12-19 16:46:03'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Nick: je sais, je n'ai a mon bureau qu'un clavier querty. J'ai honte!\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-12-20 08:10:13'
- author:
    name: dinobib
    picture: 113842
  body: "Hi, bonjour,\r\n\r\nJust to let you know after so much work on the subject,
    we published a book in French about the Futura typeface.\r\nI hope our research
    made the point on theses discussions.\r\nIf you plan to visit Paris, an exhibition
    is opened at the [[http://galerie-anatome.com/-Futura-.html?lang=en|Galerie Anatome]]
    \ until the 23rd of July.\r\n\r\n@David: Je n'avais pas vu votre r\xE9ponse \xE0
    l'\xE9poque, au plaisir de se rencontrer \xE0 l'occasion.\r\n\r\n\r\nFutura\r\nUne
    gloire typographique\r\n\r\nPublished in french by \xC9ditions Norma, 2011\r\nWritten
    by Alexandre Dumas de Rauly and Michel Wlassikoff with a foreword by \xC9tienne
    Robial.\r\n21 x 27,5 cm\r\n192 pages\r\naround 400 color images\r\n45\u20AC\r\nISBN
    : 978-2-9155-4239-4\r\n\r\nWith the help of the Centre national des arts plastiques,
    minist\xE8re de la Culture et de la Communication.\r\n\r\n[[http://www.facebook.com/futurastory|Facebook
    fanpage and infos]]\r\n\r\nSelling page\r\n[[http://www.editions-norma.com/Livres/Arts-decoratifs-l-Design/Futura-une-gloire-typographique]]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/futurapaperback2-cut_4775.jpg]\r\n\r\nCreated
    by the German artist and typographer Paul Renner, the Futura typeface enjoyed
    an unprecedent commercial success from its publication in 1927 by the Bauer type
    foundry. To this day it remains one of the most widely used typefaces in the world
    in every domain: advertising, publishing, signage, corporate design, etc.\r\nFutura\u2019s
    rigorous construction and functional design raised the status of the principles
    of modernism in the field of typography. It is associated with photography just
    as it was beginning to be defined as a new vector of communication and as an art.
    Futura made the golden days of the \u201Cphotomontage\u201C and responds to the
    dictates of typo-photographic composition as advocated by Moholy-Nagy. Even though
    it doesn\u2019t come from the Bauhaus, it became the emblematic typeface of the
    school of Dessau as those of Bayer and Albers. Described by the Bauer foundry
    as \u201Cthe type of today and tomorrow\u201D it looked like the perfect modern
    typeface to Jan Tschichold, Kurt Schwitters and Ladislav Sutnar, who used it widely
    throughout the 1930s, while Gebrauchsgraphik magazine chose it as its text typeface
    and it became the exclusive typeface of the Gesellschafts und Wirtschafts Museum
    of Otto Neurath in Vienna. Distributed under the name \u201CEurope\u201D in France
    by the Deberny & Peignot foundry, it is the flagship typeface of the eponymous
    Studio allotted to advertising photography, while it inspired Cassandre in his
    quest to develop a new style of lettering.\r\nThe Nazis formally imposed a return
    to blackletter letterform but the german exhibition at the Milan Triennal in 1933
    showcased the Futura typeface. In 1941, blackletters were forbidden in favor of
    roman typefaces, the Futura being designated as one of the best among them.\r\nThe
    \xAB typographic heresy\xBB of the national-socialists somewhat soiled its reputation
    and the one of its designer but the post-war economic boom and the advent of the
    international typographic style soon positioned Futura as the paradigm for the
    geometric lineals that would dominate graphic design, particularly in the domain
    of corporate design.\r\nIn Europe, Volkswagen and IKEA are outstanding and lasting
    examples, and Max H\xFCber installed it on the fa\xE7ades of the La Rinascente
    department stores. Its in the United States \u2014 where modernism have found
    refuge and where it was in use since the end of the 30\u2019s \u2014 where it
    earned its letters of nobility thanks to its use for the Sweet Catalog Files by
    Ladislav Sutnar, and thanks to the work of Bradbury Thompson and Paul Rand. Then,
    its adoption by NASA for the Apollo space program reasserted the original proclamation
    of Bauer: \"Die Schrift die Welt erobert\" set as the type of space conquest.\r\nThis
    astonishing evolution didn\u2019t escape the attention of Stanley Kubrick in his
    vision of 2001: A Space Odyssey and he utilized Futura in the credits and marketing
    materials for several of his films (notably Eyes Wide Shut).\r\nWith such global
    success, Barbara Kruger utilized it in the register of contestation and detournement,
    in the 1970s and 1980s; while the continued scope of its use can be seen, for
    instance on the advertising screens of the French and European TV channel Canal+.\r\nFutura
    has experienced an upsurge in interest over the last few years, notably in the
    corporate identities of the Seattle Public Library by Bruce Mau, of the Barbican
    Gallery in London by Cartlidge Levene and the Studio Myerscough, of the Mus\xE9e
    du Jeu de Paume by Change is Good, and of 104 by Experimental Jetset.\r\nFinally,
    it remains a major reference for typeface designers, from Herb Lubalin to Christian
    Schwarz, from Adrian Frutiger to Erik Spiekermann, who faced their skills against
    its forms to develop original typefaces (Avant-garde, Avenir, etc.) or interpretations
    mainly intended for corporate identities (Volkswagen).\r\nA book relating the
    story of the futura typeface is a real historic retrospective, showcasing many
    never published or really rare materials."
  created: '2011-06-10 22:02:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "This \"great man\" history of Futura is simply not true.\r\nIt was introduced
    in the USA in 1929, and used by everyone for everything ever since.\r\nEvery type
    shop had it.\r\nThe idea that its use by one or two famous designers shaped its
    popularity is lazy history, derived second-hand from graphic design histories.\r\nTake
    a look at USA mass market publications from the 1930s and you'll see.\r\nTake
    a look at any type shop specimen.\r\n\r\nHere is the earliest use of it in America
    that I've come across, from <em>Harpers Bazar</em> fashion magazine, August 1929.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ambrosia_3875.png]"
  created: '2011-06-11 04:28:36'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: Mr. Shinn, this is great.
  created: '2011-06-11 07:48:11'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I noted that the \"Zur Beachtung!\" instruction sheet pasted inside the German
    Enigma cipher machine was in Futura, but I never gave that much thought. Apparently,
    despite its association with the Bauhaus, the Nazis didn't find it sufficiently
    objectionable to avoid, I figured. That they didn't use Fraktur for something
    for use by Germans only, though, had an explanation I knew: when they switched
    from Fraktur, even though the practical reason was so that other people could
    read German propaganda, they gave it an ideological rationale, claiming that Fraktur
    was a \"Schwabacher-Jewish\" typeface.\r\n\r\nI agree that since Fraktur precedes
    Nazism by a long time, it's ridiculous to call it a \"Nazi typeface\". But Fraktur
    had been <em>distinctively German</em> for a much longer period of time, and German
    nationalism had a streak of militarism and authoritarianism in it long before
    the Nazis came around as well. So, the choice to use Fraktur in many contexts
    is one that would legitimately tend to be avoided on the basis that it could give
    rise to suspicions that one is sympathetic to the harmful aspects of German nationalism.\r\n\r\nI
    don't think there's anything that is to be done about that.\r\n\r\nAs for readability,
    what one is familiar with far outweighs any absolute characteristics of a typeface.
    If Fraktur is less legible than Roman because Roman is simpler, then Roman should
    also be less legible than sans-serif. While a rationale can be given for the greater
    legibility of Roman - the serifs guiding the eyes - that it is really the \"sweet
    spot\" is not, in my opinion, fully established.\r\n\r\nAnd if some text types
    really are too \"busy\" to be legible, there are many typefaces with calligraphic
    influences that are highly legible by any standard. They don't tend to be used
    for body type, but that's more a question of taste and symbolism - and, while
    I can understand that readability is the reason why science fiction books are
    set in Times Roman (or Caledonia, or Century Expanded) and not Futura or Helvetica
    or Univers, I'm a little disappointed that no one is typesetting fantasy books
    any longer in Jenson, Cloister Lightface, or even in something such as William
    Morris' Chaucer type."
  created: '2011-06-16 19:12:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> As for readability, what one is familiar with far\r\n> outweighs any absolute
    characteristics of a typeface.\r\n\r\nDead wrong.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-17 14:37:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don't think those principles can be meaningfully separated from the document,
    and the role of the typographer therein.\r\n\r\nFor instance, Helmut Krone's format
    for the DDB VW ads relied on the reader having some *familiarity* with the Bauhausy
    (for want of a better word) connotations of Futura\u2014German, modernist, etc.
    At the same time, Krone gave the face all sorts of room to breathe in the text
    layout, responding to the *absolute* form of the letters, finding the setting
    which optimized the readability of this particular \"Mid-century Madison Avenue\"
    way of writing (chatty, short paragraph adspeak) in this particular typeface,
    for this amount of text.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/VW_6662.png]"
  created: '2011-06-17 17:10:18'
- author:
    name: dinobib
    picture: 113842
  body: "@ Nick Shinn\r\nWhy it isn't true?\r\nOf course Futura was extensively aviable.
    \r\nThe same year Futura was released in 1927, the Bauer Type Foundry open an
    office in New York.\r\nLot of type shop use it but in three years, others founders
    have tried to create their own geometric sans, most of them failed and Linotype
    with ATF, and Monotype decided to finally released really close copy of Futura.
    That was Spartan and Twenty Century.\r\nIn our history of Futura, we effectively
    choose to focus on great uses by great man and we try to provide the major used
    of each time from the 2O's until today. We figured out some links between designers,
    art directors, and artists who predominantly use Futura.\r\nWe probably could
    have choose lots of differents uses but it could be so much due to the world success
    of the Futura typeface that we have been obliged to make some choice that would
    fit our text. \r\nFutura was used a lot in advertising and editorial layout, we
    shown some of them, the same way we show how much the Futura was a lot used during
    the last 20 years for signage and communication of great cultural places and museums.\r\nConsider
    that we show around 400 images in our book of 192 pages.\r\nI understand your
    point about famous designers not only shaped the popularity of Futura but it's
    seems really impossible to not show the best uses at each time in such a book,
    trying not to be a thesis for type specialist but a book of popularization for
    students and people interested in type and graphic design.\r\n\r\nSorry for my
    english."
  created: '2011-06-17 17:13:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Alexandre, I haven't read your book.\r\nI am responding to your post, and
    disagreeing with:\r\n\r\n<em>Its in the United States \u2014 where modernism have
    found refuge and where it was in use since the end of the 30\u2019s \u2014 where
    it earned its letters of nobility thanks to its use for the Sweet Catalog Files
    by Ladislav Sutnar, and thanks to the work of Bradbury Thompson and Paul Rand.
    </em>\r\n\r\nAs I showed by the Harpers Bazar ad, Futura was in use in the US
    before \"the end of the 30's\".\r\n\r\nI reject the elitist notion that its \"nobility\"
    was conferred by the superstars around whom graphic design history is configured.\r\n\r\nI
    dispute the quaint notion of design history focusing on \"Great uses by great
    men\". You are giving students, in particular, a false picture of the world, at
    odds with their ultimate role in society.\r\n\r\nAdmittedly, design history is
    young, dating only to the 1980s, but nonetheless, I believe it should catch up
    with other areas of history, and try to paint a picture that is broadly representative.\r\n\r\nI
    know it's hard not to refer to the icons (I illustrated a point in this thread
    by referring to the Krone VW ads), but one should try. Look at where Stephen Heller
    has gone. How many great men in his latest book on Scripts (with Louise Fili),
    investigating the heart of graphic design in commercial culture? And that shows
    good, interesting, meaningful work\u2014although not previously lauded in in awards
    competitions and monographs. If anything, he has popularized previously un-great
    men, such as Alex Steinweiss.\r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n"
  created: '2011-06-17 18:15:57'
- author:
    name: dinobib
    picture: 113842
  body: "Nick,\r\nI understand your point.\r\nFollowing your idea just wouldn't have
    done the book we wish and have done.\r\nWe take examples of use, not only because
    they were produced by icons but also because they seems to us (it's really subjective)
    telling something more general about the way Futura was used at different time
    in the century.\r\nOf course Futura was really know and use before the end of
    the 30's in USA and we deaply speak about it success and we discuss of others
    foundries trying to compete by providing others geometric sans like Dwiggins's
    Metro (1929), Robert Hunter Middleton's Tempo (1931) and many others.\r\nIn our
    popularization of this story (we said \"vulgarisation\" in french), we decide
    to focus on a European view at the beginning and provide an american view mostly
    from and after the war. It was a choice and we could understand some may have
    done this differently. It appears to us that this would be the best way to do
    it from the infos and materials we got and to make the text clear and not too
    confusing.\r\nAlso, saying that the American scene of graphic design takes a lot
    from the arrival of many emigr\xE9s coming from Europe and their understanding
    of new typography and modernism and functionlism, doesn't seems to be false to
    us.\r\nDespite the fact we focus on icons, we think that we reproduce some really
    rare or unknown materials. \r\nWe also showcase some really less-known works and
    artists or designers.\r\nMaybe your judgment is mainly based on the informational
    text I have post, which was written for promotional needs.\r\nIn such a short
    promotional text, we and our publisher focus on well-known designers and probably
    use some too quick and simplistic images to do urge to the largest public.\r\nThis
    could not really well depict the true nature of our book. \r\n"
  created: '2011-06-17 23:42:02'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@hrant:\r\n<cite>Dead wrong.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm not unsympathetic to this
    view. I do think that one can, using techniques such as that shown in <em>Typographic
    Printing Surfaces</em>, show that Fraktur is, in an absolute sense, somewhat less
    legible than Roman. The same is true of, say, a script typeface.\r\n\r\nOn this
    basis, one might also say that the normal printed forms of the scripts of Armenia
    and Georgia are very nearly as legible as the Roman alphabet, that of the Thai
    script is noticeably less legible, and the Hebrew and Arabic scripts are definitely
    less legible.\r\n\r\nWith the exception of Turkey and Malta, however, there has
    not been much of a demand to abandon either the Hebrew or Arabic scripts in favor
    of something else. Israel - and, for different reasons, Japan - both demonstrate
    that perceived inadequacies in a script, at least as seen by outsiders, are not
    barriers to mass literacy.\r\n\r\nThus, while I'm not prepared to go to the politically-correct
    extreme of assigning no weight at all to the intrinsic legibility characteristics
    of a script, it does seem to me that the evidence does show that familiarity does
    have a heavy enough weight to cover a multitude of sins in this regard.\r\n\r\nThat
    also accounts for the slowness with which text types were abandoned in favor of
    Roman types for vernacular texts in European printing outside Germany.\r\n\r\nAnother
    way to consider this is to ask oneself the question: if the Western world were
    to suddenly decide to abandon the Roman alphabet in favor of (a suitably modified
    form of) the Korean writing system, which is also alphabetic in basis, and arguably
    as legible as Roman letters, how long would it take for people to be able to read
    books so printed with as much facility as those in the Latin script?\r\n\r\nOf
    course, that's not really a fair comparison. Of course, if letters are written
    in a code of completely different shapes, one will have to memorize that new code.
    Fraktur and Roman, on the other hand, are very clearly just two slightly different
    forms of the same script."
  created: '2011-06-18 07:29:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You're way too rosy-eyed towards Latin.\r\n\r\nActually blackletter (I mean
    structurally, not necessarily most instances of it) is inherently <em>more</em>
    readable* than Latin:\r\nhttp://themicrofoundry.com/ss_fraktur1.html\r\n\r\n*
    Not at all the same thing as \"legible\".\r\nAnd virtually nothing to do with
    \"literacy\".\r\n\r\nArmenian and Georgian are more readable than Latin. So is
    Arabic, by a big margin. Hebrew is less readable. Thai is probably slightly inferior.
    Korean? Makes Latin look like a village idiot.\r\n\r\nThe adoption/abandonment
    of a script has little to do with its readability, sadly. Especially in this age
    of idiotic democracy. And it has even less to do with familiarity.\r\n\r\nIs it
    worth switching? Hmmm, is it worth learning math in school? It's so hard!...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-18 17:51:58'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@dinobib:\r\n<cite>others founders have tried to create their own geometric
    sans, most of them failed</cite>\r\n\r\nOh, my, yes. Vogue, the one from Intertype,
    is, in my personal opinion, a terribly ugly typeface. I remember it from Cracked
    magazine, the liner notes of record albums from really cheap labels, and various
    other unfortunate places.\r\n\r\n@hrant:\r\nPerhaps less-readable typefaces or
    less-legible typefaces are analogous to QWERTY. Something else that is very unlikely
    to go away.\r\n\r\nAt least we're both agreed that the Korean writing system is
    a better one.\r\n\r\nAnd, also, as I've noted elsewhere, script changes historically
    have indeed mainly taken place for political or religious reasons, so we're agreed
    there as well."
  created: '2011-06-18 18:31:54'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: To me, the Korean writing system looks very logical, very well designed and
    very readable. Yet, I can't read it worth a crooked fig. Why? I'm totally unfamiliar
    with it.
  created: '2011-06-18 22:26:34'
- author:
    name: matthew.wyne
    picture: 123133
  body: 'Does anyone have images they can share of Nazi publications that use Futura? '
  created: '2014-05-07 01:36:06'
- author:
    name: matthew.wyne
    picture: 123133
  body: "Found some!\r\n\r\nhttp://www.moonwheel.net/PdW/index.htm\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-05-07 02:35:15'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Arabic is more readable than Latin, by a big margin?\r\n\r\nI'll admit I
    find this almost impossible to believe. Too many letters, in their medial forms,
    have too little legibility for this to be plausible.\r\n\r\nAnd that h, z, and
    s have descenders in Fraktur makes it more readable seems a stretch, even if I
    see a point there.\r\n\r\nBut to go back to the original post: since Paul Renner
    opposed Nazism himself, the fact that the Nazis used Futura a lot after abandoning
    Fraktur, while not something to be covered up, is simply irrelevant in a biography
    of Renner. He didn't control their actions.\r\n\r\nUnless one somehow believes
    there can be something intrinsic to a typeface that makes it a \"Nazi typeface\",
    so that the fact that Futura appealed to Nazis means that despite his political
    beliefs, there was something sick in Paul Renner's mind, how can this be a \"sensitive
    topic\"? The idea is just silly.\r\n\r\nBut the same goes for Fraktur. The connection
    of Fraktur to Nazism is also all external associations, not something about the
    typeface itself, even if some of those associations long predate Nazism.\r\n\r\nFinally,\r\n\r\n[[http://users.telenet.be/d.rijmenants/en/enigmatech.htm]]\r\n\r\na
    reasonably large image of an Enigma with the instruction sheet.\r\n\r\n<cite>Is
    it worth switching? Hmmm, is it worth learning math in school? It's so hard!...</cite>\r\n\r\nWell,
    knowing math instead of not knowing math gives one an additional skill. Once one
    can read and write, learning to read and write in a different way only lets one
    do the same thing one already could before.\r\n\r\nIf the Latin alphabet is the
    QWERTY keyboard of scripts, one will have to explain why. Its individual letter
    shapes are distinctive. And the script is versatile; the letters have simple enough
    shapes, and are distinguished by major features, not minor ones, that many different
    and still legible typefaces are possible.\r\n\r\nIf more ascenders and descenders
    are needed, though, there is an option. I don't count going to Fraktur as switching
    scripts, and so I'm open to minor modifications.\r\n\r\nRanging and non-ranging
    numerals.\r\n\r\nInstead of going to Fraktur to get more ascenders and descenders,
    take the lower-case letters that don't have any - acemnorsuvwxz - and treat them
    as ranging digits, and switch to non-ranging versions. That is, give (some of)
    them second-order ascenders and descenders that don't go to the full ascender
    and descender heights. So a and s could ascend; r, v, and w could descend. If
    it weren't for h, m and n could ascend as well, but they could also be made to
    descend instead. Also, s and u could ascend (a u with a descender would be confusingly
    similar to y).\r\n\r\nSomething like this:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/semi_3470.jpg]\r\n\r\nexcept
    that the new ascenders and descenders could be significantly more subtle than
    illustrated here.\r\n\r\nSo now n moves towards \u0572 (gh)... u would have to
    have a descender as well as an ascender to look like \u056F (g), so there is only
    <em>one</em> borrowing from Armenian. But with the new ascenders and descenders
    being subtle, perhaps half as much as in the illustration, there would not be
    that much of a resemblance.\r\n\r\nI think that would be enough to give more bouma
    to the Latin script. As I noted, it's versatile, with styles from Jensons to Optima."
  created: '2014-05-07 17:26:08'
date: '2007-11-24 09:40:40'
title: 'Sensitive subject, come if you dare: Renner / Futura and the Third Reich...'

---
