---
author:
  name: writingdesigning
  picture: 112522
body: "Canada seems to have a disproportionately large number of interesting people
  and projects connected with typography.  \r\n\r\nThis seems to be reflected in Typophile
  memberships too. When you read an interesting post and want to know the author's
  profile, something like 3 out of 5 times, it's somebody in Canada! \r\n\r\nIs there
  a background to this? Does Canada indeed have a particularly strong typographic
  tradition? If yes, how did it come about? \r\n\r\nWhile one reads so much about
  typography and the Netherlands, I really haven't seen much about Canada. Would love
  to know more.\r\n\r\nIf this ground has been covered already in an earlier thread,
  I'd be grateful if anybody can point me to it.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Artur Schmal
    picture: 110750
  body: "<cite>Is there a background to this?</cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe due to the high
    amount of post WWII Dutch immigrants in Canada? ;)"
  created: '2007-11-24 14:34:16'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: "It's really cold here in the winter, and we all value a warm fire and a good
    book to curl up with. As such, we take great pride in our books looking good,
    as well as being good.\r\n\r\n{/tongue in cheek}"
  created: '2007-11-24 14:59:41'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "\"It\u2019s really cold here in the winter, and we all value a warm fire
    and a good book to curl up with. As such, we take great pride in our books looking
    good, as well as being good.\r\n\r\n{/tongue in cheek}\"\r\n\r\nIf cold climate
    was the only reason for having a rich typographic life, Scandinavia should be
    well up there, too. I know there's some life in Sweden, and even budding typelife
    in Finland, where the art has been almost non-existant until fairly recently.\r\n\r\nI've
    been wondering about the Canadian angle, too. The Canadians here have definately
    made me more interested in their country."
  created: '2007-11-24 15:17:56'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "1. It gives them something to do in-between hockey seasons. \r\n2. In the
    rest of the world we come home, have a few drinks, and go to bed. Who could stomach
    that much LaBatt?\r\n3. Have you tried watching the CBC? It\u2019s no wonder they
    prefer the internet.\r\n\r\nI could go on all day, but truth be told, I would
    have left the US for Canada years ago if my SO\u2019s career didn\u2019t keep
    us attached to Washington."
  created: '2007-11-24 15:27:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Deja Vu... :-)\r\n\r\nWhat is it about Canadians and Type Design?\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/15466"
  created: '2007-11-24 15:52:39'
- author:
    name: writingdesigning
    picture: 112522
  body: "Thanks sii. There were some really delightful posts in that thread. \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2007-11-24 16:02:11'
- author:
    name: writingdesigning
    picture: 112522
  body: "\"Maybe due to the high amount of post WWII Dutch immigrants in Canada?\"\r\n\r\nIf
    that's true, I wish the Dutch East India Company were a little more succesful
    in this part of the world! \r\n\r\n\r\n\"As such, we take great pride in our books
    looking good, as well as being good.\"\r\n\r\nWhich is great considering one of
    those books was written by a Mr. Bringhurst\r\n\r\n\r\n\"I could go on all day...\"\r\n\r\nEver
    grateful to you guys for having such a great time that the Canadians feel sorry
    in comparison and turn to typography ;)"
  created: '2007-11-24 16:17:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Si! Now I don't have to find that thread :-) I was looking for it
    when I saw your post.\r\nGreat minds think alike, Arun :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-11-24 16:32:39'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "If there are so many of us here, why does type in Canada <em>suck</em>?\r\n\r\n\u2014
    \ \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2007-11-24 17:14:18'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Are you sure it sucks? Maybe it just blows ;^)\r\n\r\nBut seriously, what's
    wrong with type in Canada Joe?\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-11-24 17:43:52'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I'm not sure I'd say it sucks, but there is certainly a lot of people who
    don't know about type who control what we see, both in print and electronically:
    Global/CanWest graphics and typography are horrid.\r\n\r\nAnd I suspect that one
    reason there are so many of us on Typophile is that, on a per capita basis, Canada
    has one of the highest populations with good internet service. Whether that's
    because we're hibernating from the weather in winter or we're technically literate
    (or both, I guess) is moot.\r\n\r\n(I mean, as I write this, there are 30 users
    on line, and three of us are from Calgary. It ain't that bad a day out!)"
  created: '2007-11-24 17:47:39'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "I'm not sure about the various reasons one might begin an interest in typography,
    but for my part a big influence and source of inspiration is the community here
    in western Canada, and how generous and enthusiastic that community is (despite
    the fact that I rarely see any/many of these folks in person). In British Columbia,
    for instance, there's a handful of people who have had a major impact on my work
    and interests, including Jan & Crispin Elsted (of Barbarian Press in Mission,
    BC - likely one of the finest letterpress printer/publishers out there), Bringhurst
    in the Gulf Islands, Jim Rimmer and Robert Reid in Vancouver, and then there's
    the Alcuin Society in Vancouver as well, which puts on Canada's national book
    design awards along with various other book-related events such as the Wayzgoose
    fine-press book fair which just happened on November 17th at the Vancouver Public
    Library. There are also a lot of small, fine-press publishers around here who
    have formed a fairly tight sense of community, largely over the wire, but it keeps
    things interesting to swap stories with others wrestling with font choice and
    tricky Vandercooks.\r\n\r\nAnd as for the crack about the CBC, I'm pretty sure
    that CBC Radio 2 is a contributing factor to much of the book work coming out
    of Canada: almost everyone I know who makes books has that station on in the background
    18 hours a day.\r\n\r\nAnd the weather probably does play a certain role: here
    in the Okanagan it's 40 degrees in the summer, so all you can do is sit in the
    shade and read in the afternoons, and in the winter it's minus 30, so you'd best
    find a cozy chair and a good book in the evenings.\r\n\r\nAside from that, maybe
    we can haul up the stereotypes and talk about our (self-perceived) reserved and
    quiet temperaments, combined with a romantic taste for the simple and understated:
    typography certainly fits the bill."
  created: '2007-11-24 18:21:05'
- author:
    name: writingdesigning
    picture: 112522
  body: "\"If there are so many of us here, why does type in Canada suck?\"\r\n\r\nI've
    not been there so I couldn't tell, but it perhaps sucks a lot less out there compared
    to other places.\r\n\r\nWhich may partly be so thanks to your sort of self-critical
    approach :)"
  created: '2007-11-24 18:27:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Compare the use of type in Canada to the U.S. and you will see that American
    use of type sucks more than Canadian. We have no excuse other than that those
    who make the decisions don't listen to those who know about type. I don't know
    if the Netherlands has a better respect for type people than we Americans but
    they seem to make a better show of it there at least.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-11-24 18:33:13'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">If there are so many of us here, why does type in Canada suck?\r\n\r\nThe
    good stuff is being done for export - the Dutch keep their good stuff for use
    at home. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-24 18:35:46'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>We have no excuse other than that those who make the decisions don\u2019t
    listen to those who know about type.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd why is that, anyway? Why
    don\u2019t American designers just stand up in a meeting more often and say \u201CI\u2019m
    sorry Mary, but deciding what typeface to use is my job, not yours, and I am <em>NOT</em>
    using Papyrus.</em>\u201D"
  created: '2007-11-24 18:54:19'
- author:
    name: writingdesigning
    picture: 112522
  body: "\"Great minds think alike...\"\r\n\r\nIf the size of that inverted 'C' on
    your thumbnail is any indication, it must be quite a great mind in there ;)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\"The
    good stuff is being done for export - the Dutch keep their good stuff for use
    at home\"\r\n\r\nAre you sure? You hear so much about Dutch typography while Canadian
    typographic excellence is almost a secret. Shouldn't it have been the reverse
    if it were all for export?\r\n\r\n\r\nJason, loved your post in the earlier thread
    too. Thanks for mentioning all those names that I will now look up. Of that list
    I knew of only Bringhurst."
  created: '2007-11-24 18:58:10'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>And as for the crack about the CBC, I\u2019m pretty sure that CBC Radio
    2 is a contributing factor to much of the book work coming out of Canada: almost
    everyone I know who makes books has that station on in the background 18 hours
    a day.</em>\r\n\r\nGuilty as charged. Maybe they should use that as their next
    promotion campaign: \"be even more creative, listen to CBC Radio 2....\".  ;-)"
  created: '2007-11-24 19:02:15'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Are you sure? \r\n\r\nNo, just personal experience. I've imported a bunch
    of Canadian type and expertise in recent years, but perhaps that because I'm practically
    in Canada.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2007-11-24 19:07:12'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "A couple theories on why reading Typophile could give the impression that
    there are a disproportionate designers working with here:\r\n\r\n1 Canadian type
    designers aren't all that busy, so they have oodles of time to post on Typophile
    (doubt that holds up very well)\r\n\r\n1.2 Canadian type designers are very busy,
    but very efficient so they have oodles of time to post on Typophile \r\n\r\n2
    Canadians are just so much more sociable and out-going than everyone else (you
    KNOW that ain't so)\r\n\r\nJoe, I think mediocrity thrives everywhere. \r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2007-11-24 19:31:32'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">A couple theories on why reading Typophile could give the impression that
    there are a disproportionate designers working with here:\r\n\r\nMight also be
    a time-zone thing (is it quieter here during the North American night-time hours?),
    or maybe related to typophile feeling like an online extension to TypeCon/SoTA
    which is a North American organization.   "
  created: '2007-11-24 19:43:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Why don\u2019t American designers just stand up in a meeting more often
    and say \u201CI\u2019m sorry Mary, but deciding what typeface to use is my job,
    not yours...\"\r\n\r\nJames,\r\nWhat makes you think they don't? We have done
    it many many times. Sometimes you win and sometimes you don't. Sometimes the client
    says \"It's my money, not yours so we are using Papyrus\".  Sometimes a VP for
    marketing is trying to show the boss he is worth his 6-figure salary and has to
    \"save the day\" by changing the typeface to something with more \"pizzaz\".  This
    is the real world where most designers struggle to do good work despite the overlord's
    need for control. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-11-24 21:32:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Arun, \"that inverted \u2019C\u2019\" only looks large because there is no
    hair to cover it :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-11-24 21:34:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">If the size of that inverted \u2019C\u2019 on your thumbnail is any indication,
    it must be quite a great mind in there ;)\r\n\r\nWe should think ourselves lucky
    that the icon doesn't include his R's* :-)  \r\n\r\nCheers, Si \r\n\r\n*Need to
    have an English accent for this one"
  created: '2007-11-24 21:58:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!!!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-11-24 21:59:37'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "Actually it's not just typography. Canada has been on a steady increase in
    terms of good design work for a few years now. Toronto is actually one of the
    top ten cities in the world for award winning advertising right now.\r\n\r\nAlso
    have you tried living here? How can you not be continually inspired?\r\n:)"
  created: '2007-11-24 22:10:11'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>Also have you tried living here? How can you not be continually inspired?
    :)</em>\r\n\r\nROFL!  I could have taken a transfer to Toronto from Ottawa, but
    turned it down (and ended up in NYC: I think I got the better end of that deal).
    \r\n\r\nThe only thing Tranna continually inspires me to do is leave once I'm
    finished doing whatever I end up having to do there.... \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-25 15:29:30'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "Haha yeah I know. I've been in Toronto for 5 years now and I'm about ready
    to skip town.\r\n\r\nBefore Toronto I lived in Vancouver which is definitely beautiful
    and inspiring and scenic. East coast not so much...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-25 18:02:20'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "<em>East coast not so much...</em>\r\n\r\nBite your tongue. :P\r\n\r\nToronto
    is neither eastern Canada or a real coast. And if you're referring to NB/NS/PEI/NFLD,
    you really ought to spend more time there. Halifax is one of my top 5 places in
    the world I love.\r\n\r\n<em>The only thing Tranna continually inspires me to
    do is leave once I\u2019m finished doing whatever I end up having to do there....</em>\r\n\r\nI
    used to think I'd like it until I had to constantly be in the city last year.
    Maybe I'd like it more if i was working there, but probably only for the convenience
    of catching flights out. :)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-26 19:33:01'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "Haha I don't want to fight with you about this. I'm a Vancouver supporter
    for life.\r\n\r\nAnd Toronto isn't THAT bad. There's great culture and people
    here. And now that the lake is swimmable again it's actually pretty decent in
    the summer.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-26 20:13:53'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>East coast not so much...\r\n\r\nBite your tongue. :P</em>\r\n\r\nI'll
    second that: St. John's is fabulous, and if you want a real adventure, I heartily
    recommend Iqaluit. (For the Canadian geographically-impaired, the capital of Nunavut
    is due west of Greenland, on Baffin Island).\r\n\r\n<em>Maybe I\u2019d like it
    more if i was working there, but probably only for the convenience of catching
    flights out. :)</em>\r\n\r\nWe now have Calgary-Nassau direct flights, thanks
    to WestJet.  6.5 hours, but we can be at my sister-in-law's place way faster than
    going through Tranna....  ;-)"
  created: '2007-11-26 20:14:06'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: Have you guys lived in Vancouver?
  created: '2007-11-26 20:29:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Canada has a tradition in the graphic arts, especially in Montreal and Toronto,
    back into the 19th century.\r\nBut no type design until 1967 (Cartier, by Carl
    Dair.)\r\n\r\n\"...had MacDonald chosen to turn his talents to typography he might
    have made a name for himself in Canada comparable to that of Frederick W. Goudy
    or T.M. Cleland in the United States\" -- art critic William Colgate, 1940.\r\n\r\nHe's
    referring to graphic designer J.E.H. MacDonald, better known as a painter and
    founder of the Group of Seven. MacDonald's iconic landscapes now sell in the multi-millions,
    but in the days before the Canada Council supported artists, in a small country
    like Canada, the Group of Seven worked as graphic designers, at studio Grip Ltd.
    Among his many talents, MacDonald was an accomplished lettering artist, and had
    there been any type foundries in Canada in the early 20th century, no doubt he
    would have designed some typefaces that would be well-known today. \r\n\r\nSo
    it wasn't so much that he didn't chose typography, but type design wasn't really
    an option available to him."
  created: '2007-11-26 21:07:11'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>Have you guys lived in Vancouver?</em>\r\n\r\nBack in the late 70s-early
    80s: nice place to visit when the sun shines (as it mostly did two weekends ago),
    but don't want to move back, especially in winter."
  created: '2007-11-26 21:22:55'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">But no type design until 1967 \r\n\r\nWhere does this fit in? http://www.tiro.com/syllabics/Edmund_Peck/Edmund_Peck.html"
  created: '2007-11-26 21:25:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Si,\r\nPlease explain your green Leprechaun visage? Is that Seattle's newest
    pro team?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-11-26 21:30:16'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>But no type design until 1967 (Cartier, by Carl Dair.)</em>\r\n\r\nCartier
    was done in 1967 by Rod McDonald.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.stepinsidedesign.com/STEPMagazine/Article/28572"
  created: '2007-11-26 21:31:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Where does this fit in?</em>\r\n\r\nSomewhat outside the main tradition!\r\n\r\n<em>Cartier
    was done in 1967 by Rod McDonald.</em>\r\n\r\nMy, what a precocious fellow. "
  created: '2007-11-26 21:45:49'
- author:
    name: Gary Long
    picture: 112662
  body: Dair did Cartier, though he didn't quite finish it. Rod McDonald revamped
    it more recently as Cartier Book, making it less quirky. First book I wrote that
    was published was set in the original Cartier. Didn't really suit the subject
    matter, and the italics were horrible for the lengthy photo captions. I've seen
    Cartier book used in some Canadian art books. Looks great there.
  created: '2007-11-26 21:46:43'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Please explain your green Leprechaun visage? \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/newsnuf_5662.JPG]
    \r\n\r\nThat's Snufkin (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snufkin) I'm keeping him
    around until the Hawks win a play-off game... "
  created: '2007-11-26 22:43:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I knew there was a sporting reasoning in there somewhere, Si;-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-11-26 23:00:08'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: There's always a sporting connection - for example I find it ironic that the
    spacing between the 9 and 7 is bad on this jersey... http://www.seahawks.com/Espanol/Espanol.aspx?id=48624
  created: '2007-11-26 23:53:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I find it ironic that the spacing between the 9 and 7 is bad on this jersey\"\r\n\r\nLOL!!!
    Thanks, Si! I needed that just now :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-11-27 01:05:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>But no type design until 1967 (Cartier, by Carl Dair.)</em>\r\n\r\nUnless
    you count the work of missionaries creating types -- indeed, whole writing systems
    -- for native languages, the first of which predates Cartier by more than a hundred
    years. Dair's work was the first type design by someone who identified himself
    as a designer."
  created: '2007-11-27 03:00:52'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">LOL!!! Thanks, Si! I needed that just now :-)\r\n\r\nBack on topic - congratulations
    to the Saskatchewan Roughriders on their Grey Cup win!"
  created: '2007-11-27 03:07:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>missionaries creating types</em>\r\n\r\nYes, I debated mentioning that
    in my first post, but decided it wasn't important.\r\nHowever, on reflection,
    and considering the work of SIL up to the present day, it may be considered a
    significant part of the big picture, which isn't only about the commercial world
    of typography."
  created: '2007-11-27 04:29:52'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>Back on topic - congratulations to the Saskatchewan Roughriders on their
    Grey Cup win!</em>\r\n\r\nThey didn't win pretty -- in fact, it wasn't a great
    game at all -- but they did win. And with windchills of -35C, today's parade will
    be an interesting one.  ;-)"
  created: '2007-11-27 17:24:22'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: Compared to the Monday night NFL match, Linda, it was a Great game. (And as
    a long-suffering Riders fan, well deserved.)
  created: '2007-11-27 20:10:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Even though I am a life-long Steelers fan, I have to agree that last night's
    mud fest was not the best game I ever watched. When a punt comes down from 50
    yards up in the sky and sticks into the mud half a ball deep without the hint
    of a bounce, you know it is not a good day for football. They should have played
    the game on water skis.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-11-27 20:48:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I have to agree that last night\u2019s mud fest was not the best game I
    ever watched.\r\n\r\nMy favorite bit - with the score at zero-zero and time running
    down in the 4th quarter one of the commentators said - \u201CI feel like I\u2019m
    watching a soccer game\u201D"
  created: '2007-11-27 21:10:51'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>(And as a long-suffering Riders fan, well deserved.)</em>\r\n\r\nTrue
    enough, except that to get there, they beat the team where I live (I hate the
    Stamps), my fave team (lifelong Lions fan), and the city of my birth. On the bright
    side, an old friend used to coach the 'Riders defensive backs, so I'll take some
    small pleasure in that.\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2007-11-27 21:19:35'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "Thanks to John, I can set Dene text on a computer; though I'd dearly love
    an updated version. FontExplorer throws up errors, and a few more style wouldn't
    hurt :)\r\n\r\nAlso, I think I'd take Yellowknife over Iqaluit, just on cost of
    living alone. The second being there's only 2 places to eat out in Iqaluit. \r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nI
    was really pulling for Winnipeg Sunday, then the end of the 2nd quarter went downhill,
    fast, for them. I'm partial because my brother-in-law is the official that runs
    the video replay for the Bombers. My wife and her family spent a number of years
    in Sk. so she was gloating over the phone the other night."
  created: '2007-11-27 23:44:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL! Yes! Then they said they hoped they had time to run through ALL the
    scoring drives before they went off the air :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-11-28 02:35:38'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "2010 Olympic mascots unveiled...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.canada.com/vancouversun/news/storyimage.html?id=e667e27b-924a-47e0-83e4-c2fd90a557b3&img=4f521357-9185-47c6-9f03-67df93f83f2d&path=/vancouversun/news/\r\n\r\nYou
    guys must be so proud... :-)"
  created: '2007-11-28 02:59:18'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "We are so proud we are wearing paper bags over out heads until after the
    Olympics. :-<em>(</em>\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2007-11-28 03:07:58'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2007-11-28 03:08:06'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "\"Embarrassed\" doesn't even begin to express my disgust.\r\n\r\nThe majority
    reaction <a href=\"http://www.cbc.ca/news/yourview/bc/2007/11/do_you_like_the_2010_olympic_m.html\">here</a>
    is pretty representative, I think. "
  created: '2007-11-28 03:08:56'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "To counter the sports talk, let me make a really important comment about
    Canada. \r\n\r\nI was in Vancouver in June 04 and Halifax in July 05 during their
    jazz festivals. This was pure chance, dependent solely on the timing of meetings.
    I stayed up so late so many nights that I was not really worth a damn at the conferences
    I was supposed to be attending. The quality and adventure shown by the \"avant\"
    bands, both local and those from far away was quite astounding. Both festivals
    made good use of fine musicians who live in those regions.\r\n\r\nWould that the
    jazz festivals here in the midwest were anywhere near that good. I don't think
    I could have heard that much of that sort of jazz anywhere except the really big
    jazz cities, and I don't care to travel to them. & I found both cities to be comfortable
    for walking back to my hotels in the early morning, both in terms of weather and
    personal safety.\r\n\r\nIf this level of support for adventurous music is any
    indicator, then Canada [or at least those two cities] sets the culture bar very
    high.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2007-11-28 03:38:45'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "I LOVE the mascots. I want to eat them with my heart. I will buy so much
    swag. SO MUCH. I think they're an awesome combination of the necessary native
    elements with no canadian stereotypes designed in a modern and very popular style.
    And they're so cute!\r\n\r\nI honestly think people would have complained no matter
    what they were though. And all i see when I read that page is 500 people bitching
    and making racist comments about Native history and the Japanese (no matter that
    Vancouver's ethnic percentage is largely Asian) with no suggestions as to what
    they would like to see. RABBLE RABBLE RABBLE."
  created: '2007-11-29 01:08:17'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I think they''re fun esp. the animated versions. Anyway they''re for the
    kids right? '
  created: '2007-11-29 02:13:59'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: do they have Quatchi plushies yet? i want one. :^p
  created: '2007-11-29 02:33:43'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Buy, buy, buy, bye, bye.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.hbc.com/"
  created: '2007-11-29 03:00:12'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: OKAY!
  created: '2007-11-29 16:40:08'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "The Canada Winter games mascots from Whitehorse would have been 10 times
    better. Should have just repurposed those, after all the money was already spent
    on the costumes! :P\r\n\r\nIn fact their branding was better as well, if you can
    ignore the required Canada Games logo and the use of Impact."
  created: '2007-11-29 17:37:08'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> Should have just repurposed those, after all the money was already spent
    on the costumes!\r\n\r\nUhm, I don't think that the organizing committee was thinking
    about saving a few hundred dollars on costumes out of their mega million dollar
    budget. More likely thinking that new mascots will mean new souvenir sales."
  created: '2007-11-29 18:53:19'
date: '2007-11-24 11:36:49'
title: What's it with Canada and Typography?

---
