---
author:
  name: RachelR
body: "Hi all,\r\n\r\nWhat I trying to do here is find a quicker way to position the
  accents on italic glyphs. \r\n\r\nThe process I'm usng at the moment - \r\n\r\n1.
  With the base glyph and accent in place - Glyph > create glyphs (Picture 1)\r\n2.
  In the glyph window I select the accent and use center. (Picture 2)\r\n\r\nThis
  seems to work fine as a starting point, but it's really repeative, I was looking
  for a quicker method possible using a python script.\r\n\r\nI've had experience
  with other languages such as ActionScript and PHP, I'm comfortable with the idea
  of scripting but I've only just started looking at RoboFab and Python so I could
  have this completely wrong.\r\n\r\nI wrote this code today in an effect to speed
  up the process, thinking if I had a value for the aacute I could then use it for
  the eacute etc. \r\n\r\n<code>\r\nfrom robofab.world import CurrentFont\r\nf = CurrentFont()\r\nacute
  = 20\r\nupperShift = 80\r\nupperAcc = 164\r\ngrave = 45\r\ncircumflex = 0\r\ndieresis
  = 10\r\naring = 70\r\ntilde = 15\r\nmacron = 30\r\nbreve = 22\r\nf['aacute'].components[1].offset
  = (acute,0)\r\nf['agrave'].components[1].offset = (grave,0)\r\nf['acircumflex'].components[1].offset
  = (circumflex,0)\r\nf['adieresis'].components[1].offset = (dieresis,0)\t\r\nf['atilde'].components[1].offset
  = (tilde,0)\r\nf['aring'].components[1].offset = (aring,0)\r\nf['amacron'].components[1].offset
  = (macron,0)\r\nf['abreve'].components[1].offset = (breve,0)\r\n#\r\nf['ccedilla'].components[1].offset
  = (0,0)\r\nf['cacute'].components[1].offset = (acute,0)\r\nf['ccircumflex'].components[1].offset
  = (circumflex,0)\r\nf['cdotaccent'].components[1].offset = (aring,0)\r\nf['ccaron'].components[1].offset
  = (circumflex,0)\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nIt works to a point but it would be quicker to
  go to each glyph and use the center method. What I thought would be useful is a
  center method to use within the code, something like - \r\n\r\n<code>\r\nf['aacute'].components[1].offset
  = (center,0)\r\nf['agrave'].components[1].offset = (center,0)\r\nf['acircumflex'].components[1].offset
  = (center,0)\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nSo my question is, is this possible \r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: Can't help you with the code, but why not use 'Anchors and Carets'?
  created: '2007-11-25 01:29:39'
- author:
    name: gferreira
    picture: 110517
  body: "placing accents is easier and faster if you use anchors. you could write
    code to center the accent to the base-glyph's width... but for accent placement
    what matters it the optical center, not the mathematical one. with anchors you
    can mark the alignment points optically.\r\n\r\nrobofab comes with an accent building
    tool \u2013 have you read <a href=\"http://www.robofab.org/howto/buildingaccents.html\">this
    page</a>?\r\n\r\nyou might also want to take a look at ben kiel's <a href=\"http://www.benkiel.com/typeDesign/\">accentTools</a>.\r\n\r\ngood
    luck,\r\n- gustavo."
  created: '2007-11-25 02:14:49'
- author:
    name: RachelR
  body: "Jon, gferreira,\r\n\r\nI don't use anchors at the moment cos I found it quicker
    and easier to select all the emtpy accent glyph windows and then use Glyph > Create
    glyph. I'll look into using anchors and see if that is quicker.\r\n\r\nI know
    the accents placement is better optically rather than mathematical but I wanted
    them centered as a starting point from which I could adjust them.\r\n\r\nI think
    what I need for my code is a way to move the accent at set amount, the offset
    method will move the glyph to a set point, but what I need is a way to say move
    accent 120 units (the accents current position - 120units ). I try and see if
    this is possible.\r\n\r\nc.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-25 09:57:09'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t use anchors at the moment cos I found it quicker and easier
    to select all the emtpy accent glyph windows and then use Glyph > Create glyph.</em>\r\n\r\nanchors
    and the create glyphs functions work together. what you do is set up your anchors
    on your base characters using a name such as \"anchor\" and then set them on your
    diacritics using a name such as \"_anchor,\" so that they are the same except
    for the underscore before the diacritic anchor names. Once you have these set
    up, you run the create glyphs action and all your diacritics snap into place.
    it's a great time saver."
  created: '2007-11-25 10:06:18'
- author:
    name: RachelR
  body: 'Sounds like I''m missing a trick here, I''ll look into it '
  created: '2007-11-25 10:25:18'
- author:
    name: gferreira
    picture: 110517
  body: "hello karsten,\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.kltf.de/kltf_otproduction.htm\">this</a>
    is the right link... ;-)\r\n\r\ncheers,\r\n- gustavo.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-25 13:38:45'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "[Thank you! Change the link. And the order of posts too ...]\r\n\r\nRegarding
    the method of using Anchors and \"Glyph > Generate Glyphs ...\", you can also
    use the \"Glyph Generator\" script from <a href=\"http://www.kltf.de/kltf_otproduction.htm\">here</a>.
    The script does the same thing as the \"Generate Glyphs ...\" panel but more automatically:
    it generates all composite glyphs defined in the alias.dat if both base glyph
    and accent glyph are present in the font. This requires that you adjust the alias.dat
    file to match your desired glyph set. (Make a backup of the original!) For the
    syntax of alias.dat, see the little help button in the \"Generate Glyphs ...\"
    panel.\r\n\r\nYesterday's thought:\r\nAnchors are helpful, but placing them correctly
    needs visual control which Anchors themselves do not provide. They are just dots.
    A visual check of the positioning requires a \"real\" diacritic glyph (with base
    glyph and accent).\r\nWhat about combining Rachel Roberts' and the Anchor/\"Glyph
    > Generate Glyphs ...\" methods? This could work like this:\r\nAdd a special 'ACCENT'
    glyph (and 'ACCENT.uc' and 'ACCENT.sc' if you use uppercase &amp; lowercase variants)
    to the font. Take the outline of an accent which is easy to position. And add,
    for every base glyph ('a'), a pseudo-diacritic glyph ('a_DIACRITIC', made of the
    components 'a' and 'ACCENT').\r\n[If you desparately want to use Anchors, a script
    may grab the Anchor position from the placement of these default accents in the
    pseudo-diacritic glyph. Then standard scripts like Ben's or the one mentioned
    above can be used to create diacritic glyphs. But the more direct way would do
    this:]\r\nFinally, a glyph generator script reads the position of the 'ACCENT'
    component in every pseudo-diacritic glyph ('a_DIACRITIC' etc), and creates all
    other diacritic glyphs using this position. This requires a list of all glyphs
    to be generated, and their components, similar to the alias.dat file.\r\nIn short:
    It is the same as using Anchors, but with better visual control. And a few additional
    glyphs.&nbsp;&nbsp;;-)\r\nThe uppercase-name glyphs would have to be deleted before
    generating fonts -- they are just helpers used during production. What they grant
    though is better visual control.\r\n[Maybe make both 'ACCENT.top' and 'ACCENT.bottom'.]\r\n\r\nBut
    in the end, which way you go is a very personal decision.\r\n\r\nKarsten\r\n\r\nP.S.\r\nHi
    Gustavo!"
  created: '2007-11-25 15:00:47'
- author:
    name: RachelR
  body: "Update:\r\n\r\nI tried the Anchors method but found it more time consuming
    than my orginal method.\r\n\r\nSo this is the method I came up with:\r\n\r\n1.
    I generated the Accent glyphs using the Glyph > Create Gylph which results in
    the accent being in the wrong position over to the left   [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture-1_4889.gif]\r\n\r\n2.
    With experiments it looks like the distance the accent has to move over to the
    left to be somewhere in the correct position can be applied to all the lowercase
    accent glyphs. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture-2_4765.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    wrote this script to move all the accents over by a set amount\r\n\r\n<code>\r\nfrom
    robofab.world import CurrentFont\r\nf = CurrentFont()\r\nshift = 90\r\nUppShift
    = 132\r\n#\r\n#LowerAccents---------------\r\n#\r\naacute = f['aacute'].components[1]\r\nagrave
    = f['agrave'].components[1]\r\nacircumflex = f['acircumflex'].components[1]\r\nadieresis
    = f['adieresis'].components[1]\r\natilde = f['atilde'].components[1]\r\naring
    = f['aring'].components[1]\r\namacron = f['amacron'].components[1]\r\nabreve =
    f['abreve'].components[1]\r\n#\r\naacute.move((shift,0))\r\nagrave.move((shift,0))\r\nacircumflex.move((shift,0))\r\nadieresis.move((shift,0))\r\natilde.move((shift,0))\r\naring.move((shift,0))\r\namacron.move((shift,0))\r\nabreve.move((shift,0))\r\n#\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nThe
    code seems verbose to me, I'm sure the use of an array with a loop would streamline
    it down.\r\nI've just started with Robofab/Python so i wouldn't know if that's
    possible or the syntax\r\n\r\nAnyway the code seems to work for me.\r\n\r\nRr."
  created: '2007-11-25 17:50:52'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: wow! i wish writing scripts were simpler for me than figuring out basic FL
    functions. guess i better get a crack on python.
  created: '2007-11-25 18:18:50'
- author:
    name: solfeggio
    picture: 112465
  body: "Dang, that's impressive stuff \u2014 especially so to me, since I plod along
    adjusting placements by eye (rather than trusting mechanical measurements first
    and tweaking later)."
  created: '2007-11-25 18:28:47'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: one advantage of setting anchors is that you set them at the optical centers
    of your glyphs/components. if you're shifting your acute, grave, circumflex, dieresis,
    dotaccent, &c all by the same fixed amount, not all of them will be centered over
    your base glyph. to make your script do this more optimally it needs some more
    algebra, but don't ask me to spout off just what right now.
  created: '2007-11-25 18:36:31'
- author:
    name: solfeggio
    picture: 112465
  body: "<em>... it needs some more algebra ...</em>\r\n\r\nYep, and it's at that
    point my eyes usually begin to glaze over. I'd prefer to keep them (my eyes, that
    is) clear and proceed somewhat stochastically, making optical adjustments as required,
    proof, then more tweaking, proof, stir and repeat as necessary, then relax and
    skip the math and aspirin expenses. But to each his/her own, yes?"
  created: '2007-11-25 18:43:00'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "RachelR -- <cite>I've just started with Robofab/Python so i wouldn't know
    if that's possible</cite>\r\n\r\nIt is. You can try something like <a href=\"http://www.kltf.de/stuff/MoveAccentsTypophile.py\"
    target=\"_blank\">this</a>.\r\n\r\n(As to automatism vs by hand/eye, yes. Automatism
    is only for a start. And it was for this reason that I suggested the method with
    a special accent glyph rather than a mere Anchor. However, it's theory so far.)"
  created: '2007-11-25 18:59:41'
- author:
    name: RachelR
  body: "Paul,\r\n\r\n<em>\r\nif you\u2019re shifting your acute, grave, circumflex,
    dieresis, dotaccent, &c all by the same fixed amount, not all of them will be
    centered over your base glyph. \r\n</em>\r\n\r\nThis is my first attempt at using
    Python so the code isn't very dynamic and limited in it's expandability but it
    gets me over the shock of all the accents being completely out of place without
    having to go through each one. With k.l. array and loop example I should be able
    to make to more compact.\r\n\r\nRr. "
  created: '2007-11-25 22:49:14'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: The next logical step would probably be to add a dialog to the merge composites
    functionality, for instance like this one:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MergeComposits_4968.gif]
  created: '2007-11-26 19:50:54'
- author:
    name: RachelR
  body: "blokland,\r\n\r\nWhat application is this Merge Composites taken from. Or
    is this something I can produce using python/Robofab\r\n\r\n\r\nRr."
  created: '2007-11-26 20:06:35'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Rachel,\r\n\r\nThe \u2018Merge Composites\u2019 dialog belongs to one of
    the standard batch functions of DTL FontMaster. Perhaps you can add something
    like this to the functionality you developed with the tools you are using, I actually
    don\u2019t know. I simply could not resist to intrude in this topic and to show
    the dialog after seeing another re-invention of relatively old technology. \r\n\r\nFor
    the FM Track during the ATypI TypeTech Forum in Brighton last September I invited
    Peter Rosenfeld of URW++ to talk about this constant re-invention of old technology.
    Much type design and font production related functionality that comes by on forums
    like this one, has been developed in the past thirty plus years for especially
    the Ikarus system and much was invented by Dr. Peter Karow. FM is based on the
    Ikarus system and a lot of the batch functionality is built-in and mostly controlled
    by simple command files. Actually, the coming years we will port even more fairly
    sophisticated Ikarus (and sometimes relatively old) functions to FM, besides developing
    new ones.\r\n\r\nAt the risk of being tarred and feathered by this in general
    non-FM oriented audience, I want to state that the structure of FM has been developed
    more than that of any other current font production tool with automation and batching
    in mind. Hence the automation is built-in and not built-on.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-26 21:11:13'
- author:
    name: pvanderlaan
    picture: 112305
  body: "Rachel,\r\n\r\nYou can build custom dialogs yourself by using Tal Lemming's
    excellent DialogKit library for FontLab. Check it out (and more of his stuff)
    at http://code.typesupply.com/"
  created: '2007-11-26 21:19:11'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "\r\nFrank, \r\n\r\nI think those \"reinventions\" are quite common in most
    industries. The interesting thing is that whenever a 3rd party comes to look at
    an existing solution, they usually take some aspects from it, and then it mixes
    if with new ideas of their own. For example, it is quite obvious that FontLab
    4, compared to version 3, was heavily influenced by Fontographer, and then FontLab
    Studio 5 was somewhat influenced by FontStudio. A shareware font editor FontCreator
    was recently influenced by FontLab Studio a lot, and FontLab Studio has adopted
    a few of their ideas as well. \r\n\r\nAlso, sometimes these reinventions happen
    completely independently -- especially if there are some mathematical, \"objective\"
    solutions to certain problems, then it is quite likely that different people arrive
    at the same conclusions independently of each other. \r\n\r\nI don't know if it
    is a good or bad thing, but I believe the influence of Ikarus and DTL FontMaster
    of FontLab Studio and other Fontlab Ltd. products has been rather small. For example,
    I have never worked with Ikarus nor FontMaster, and never owned a license of either
    product. But I guess some influence went in, often because users of FontLab Studio
    suggested features that they have previously seen in Ikarus. \r\n\r\nI must admit
    that I was particularly thrilled to meet Dr Peter Karow this year at the typographic
    conference in Thessaloniki. I've spent many hours on discussions and exchanging
    ideas with him, and was very impressed (I had known some of his work through his
    writings previously, but there were major parts that I was not aware of). \r\n\r\nSince
    you have spoken of a certain primary aspect of FontMaster, let me say that in
    my opinion, one of the unique and important aspects of FontLab Studio, which has
    always been a focal point in Yuri's development, was the \"roundtrip interactive\"
    aspect of the tool. This means that in FontLab Studio, you can take an existing
    font or start a new one, and then make some changes to an existing glyph or draw
    a new one, then do some spacing, then do some hinting, then go back to drawing,
    then do some hinting again and some spacing, and then perhaps some more drawing
    -- all in just one tool. And during all of that, FontLab Studio maintains as much
    as possible of the other data. For example, if I open an existing hand-hinted
    TrueType font and add just one glyph, all of the font's tables, hand hinting,
    OpenType code etc. remains intact. \r\n\r\nThis aspect of the tool was developed
    especially because Yuri did not want to make a hard separation between source
    files and final files. In a sense, he arrived at the conclusion that the final
    files are often the best source files. \r\n\r\nI guess that is also one of the
    main differences, especially when comparing older versions of FontLab and FontMaster.
    FontLab was in the past highly interactive but had limited batch abilities, while
    I was under the impression that FontMaster excelled in batch functionalities but
    was rather limited in the \"roundtrip interactivity\" aspect. This made the original
    FontLab a great tool for smaller foundries and original designers while FontMaster
    was I guess a great tool for very large font libraries. \r\n\r\nBut I guess in
    the more recent years, the applications started gaining what they lacked before
    -- FontLab and later FontLab Studio developed many batch abilities, since Python
    support was added in version 4, while I am under the impression that FontMaster
    added some interactive features not present before. \r\n\r\nI guess both DTL and
    Fontlab Ltd. are -- in their own way -- trying to make tools suitable for all
    possible scenarios. I guess some users would be interested in using both FontLab's
    and DTL's tools, but it's somewhat unfortunate that there are hardly any practical
    ways to exchange data between those applications. \r\n\r\nPerhaps both Fontlab
    Ltd. and DTL should consider adding native support for the UFO and GLIF formats
    developed by the RoboFab group? Those files use XML, which is pretty much a prerequisite
    in today's data exchange, and they are already used by FontForge, the third player
    on the market. Fontlab Ltd. purchased a license for RoboFab from its developers
    some time ago, and we are working on better integrating it with our applications
    -- I wonder if DTL would be interested to do that as well? \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam
    \r\n"
  created: '2007-11-28 12:54:08'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Adam,\r\n\r\nDTL FontMaster was from the beginning on a \u2018roundtrip interactive\u2019
    set of modules. After all the DTL typefaces are designed and produced with these
    tools. Additionally there is the batch functionality to for instance combine multiple
    fonts in single databases, merge composites (of course), automatically generate
    OpenType layout features and even automatically generate a complete library in
    all font formats with a single command file.\r\n \r\nFM was actually never developed
    with the end user market in mind. Originally it was purely meant for internal
    use at the Dutch Type Library. During the 1990\u2019s we were simply to much hampered
    by the available font production tools and developing a new program in co-operation
    with URW++ was the most logical solution. Hence the extensive batch functionality.
    At a later stage the set of modules was polished somewhat more and made available
    to the market. Still the new functionality we put in the program is mostly the
    result of internal demands at DTL.\r\n\r\nThe in the past thirty-plus years proven
    Ikarus-based file structure of DTL FontMaster with its separate files for respectively
    glyph databases (BE/IK), naming info (UFM), kerning (AFM/kern.fea) and font encoding
    (CHA) is very versatile and in our opinion unbeatable, especially for the exchange
    of data and for automation. Both the BE and IK formats have been published.\r\n\r\nInstead
    of supporting another format, we believe more in the bridging like Karsten Luecke
    demonstrated in Brighton at the FM Track.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-28 21:43:44'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Yet another possibility:\r\n\r\nWhen reading Adam's post, I thought: Why
    not add a (FontMaster) BE format reader/writer to RoboFab? That way, RoboFab rather
    than FLS or FM themselves would serve as bridges between FLS and FM. My impression
    is that BE and UFO have more in common than either BE or UFO with VFB. The BE--UFO
    conversion could work outside of FLS,* the VFB--UFO and 'direct' VFB--BE conversion
    would require that scripts which read UFO/BE files are used from within FLS.\r\n\r\n*
    After all, as Mr Blokland said, the BE format is an 'open' format in that it is
    fully documented in Peter Karow's books, so anybody actually can read/write it.\r\n\r\nUsing
    RoboFab and its UFO as mediator would raise interesting questions: Which information
    are essential for fonts, regardless of the font editor? Is it possible at all
    to draw a line between font info and an application's options? \r\nThe available
    font info (names, metrics, the way font-wide hinting information are provided,
    etc) slightly differ in FLS and FM. \r\nLooking at font names, as one example,
    these differ a bit with both applications since each of them has its own approach
    to, and mechanisms for, filling in the 'name' table from user-defined font names.
    (Speaking of OT fonts.) This means, what appears to be 'mere' font info actually
    interact with what the font editor does with them upon generating fonts.\r\nThis
    raises the question which data a 'meta' font format needs to provide. In my own
    attempts to 'externalize' some FLS font info to text files (trying to be able
    to reproduce font generation exactly any time later) I found that this requires
    not only font info themselves but certain options too which are, strictly speaking,
    not font but application dependent. UFO as a 'meta' format had to deal with the
    same question. Last time I checked (some time ago), its font info did not cover
    every data that I needed to generate a font. (Put differently, whenever a RoboFab-based
    script uses '.naked()' this means that it touches RoboFab's limits -- and relies
    on FLS.) How should UFO deal with font info that are specific to either FLS or
    FM? Currently this is not a real problem since, in real world use, RF/UFO serves
    merely as an FLS add-on: the existing FoboFab/UFO based stand-alone applications
    help modifying font data, but to generate PST1, TT or OT fonts one needs to import
    them back to FLS.\r\nOther aspects: masters, anchors, hints, etc.\r\n\r\nStill
    I plan to make a more detailed comparison of certain aspects of FLS and FM (which
    may be useful for RF/UFO as a mediator too) ...\r\n\r\nSince I used abbreviations:\r\nFLS
    & VFB: <em>FontLab Studio & its font format</em>\r\nFM & BE: <em>DTL FontMaster
    & its font format</em>\r\nRF & UFO: <em>Letterror RoboFab & its font format</em>\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2007-12-20 20:02:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Karsten: <em>Add a special \u2019ACCENT\u2019 glyph (and \u2019ACCENT.uc\u2019
    and \u2019ACCENT.sc\u2019 if you use uppercase & lowercase variants) to the font.
    Take the outline of an accent which is easy to position. And add, for every base
    glyph (\u2019a\u2019), a pseudo-diacritic glyph (\u2019a_DIACRITIC\u2019, made
    of the components \u2019a\u2019 and \u2019ACCENT\u2019).</em>\r\n\r\nThis is very
    similar to what we do when working out GPOS mark positioning for complex scripts.
    It is much easier to visually position an actual mark than to position a dot anchor.
    So we use component glyphs with names corresponding to the mark glyph group to
    which they belong, e.g. ABOVE, BELOW, RAKAR, etc.. Then we position these as composites
    in separate source files, using various automations to get close to where we want
    them and then going through manually to adjust (usually done by Fiona, who has
    the best eye for mark positioning). Then we dump the composite position information
    to a text file and convert it into a VOLT GPOS lookup, so that the VOLT anchor
    positions are derived from the FL composite placement. The aspect of this I'd
    most like to have better automated is the final stage: the conversion to the VOLT
    lookup syntax."
  created: '2007-12-21 11:06:34'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Wow, that's interesting! Thank you for the description of the procedure.
  created: '2007-12-21 21:29:49'
date: '2007-11-24 17:25:09'
title: Center accent using RoboFab/Python ?

---
