---
author:
  name: J Weltin
  picture: 111273
body: "Anyone encountered following situation:\r\nI am using an OT-font in InDesign
  CS3 with the OT-feature Proportional Oldstyle. When i turn Ligatures on, the numerals
  will change to the standard ones (which i don\u2019t want to happen, of course)\r\nThis
  does not occur in InDesign CS2. Is this a bug of CS3 or maybe some misleading OT-feature
  in the font itself?\r\n\r\nAny help greatly appreciated."
comments:
- author:
    name: emenninga
  body: 'What font is it?  '
  created: '2007-11-27 18:15:43'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: "I don\u2019t think it\u2019s a font problem, because it behaves correctly
    in the CS2 applications."
  created: '2007-11-28 10:00:22'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "I suspect that ...\r\n\r\nIt is a font problem.\r\nThe (FLS) font's feature
    definition lacks (some of) the initial languagesystem statements. But in 'liga'
    (and possibly in 'smcp') however, certain lookups are registered for specific
    languages (e.g. 'DEU' and 'TRK'). This has the effect that after feature compilation
    <i>only</i> 'liga' (and possibly 'smcp') are registered e.g. for the German language
    ('DEU').\r\nDefault numerals in the font are lining numerals.\r\nWhile InDesign
    CS2 and earlier ignored script and language tags, InDesign CS3 <i>does</i> read
    them. If a user applies the German dictionary, InDesign CS3 will look for features
    registered for German and <i>only</i> find the 'liga' feature: as an effect, 'Ligatures'
    will work, but 'Proportional Oldstyle' numerals won't have any effect, hence the
    (default) lining numerals.\r\n\r\nSolution:\r\n\r\nAdam Twardoch described what
    to do:\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/17787\" target=\"_blank\">http://typophile.com/node/17787</a>\r\n(See
    the three \"discussion\" links, especially the <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/28277#comment-160533\"
    target=\"_blank\">AFDKO thread</a>!)\r\n\r\nA must-read is this:\r\nChristopher
    Slye's presentation for the ATypI Lisbon Conference. Download \"OpenType feature
    files\" from Thomas Phinney's <a href=\"http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2006/10/atypi_2006_pres.html\"
    target=\"_blank\">Typblography</a>. (Direct link to <a href=\"http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/atypi2006/slye_lisbon-05.pdf\">the
    PDF</a>.)\r\n\r\nIf fonts with the additional languagesystem statements in the
    feature code are generated with AFDKO2, all is fine.\r\nIf you generate such fonts
    in FontLab Studio 5, there will be an error message. You can ignore this, <i>but</i>
    you need to run the generated .otf fonts through Adam Twardoch's Fix DFLT Script
    Tag script which can be downloaded here:\r\nhttp://www.silesian.com/software/FixDFLTScriptTagSL.zip
    \r\n(Requires TTX, see the README.TXT.)\r\n\r\n[My impression is that there are
    many fonts out there which share the defect described above.]\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2007-11-28 12:22:51'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> The (FLS) font\u2019s feature definition lacks \r\n> (some of) the initial
    languagesystem statements. \r\n\r\nI'd like to emphasize the importance of this
    -- whenever you are using ANY language-specific OpenType substitutions (e.g. in
    the \"liga\" or \"locl\" features) or whenever your font contains letters from
    more than just the Latin script (e.g. Cyrillic or alphabetic Greek), you need
    to enumerate all the languagesystems as I explained <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/17787\">here</a>.
    This is not any limitation of FontLab Studio, simply a prerequisite of the format.
    FontLab Studio does not do it magically for you, but it does not automatically
    generate any OpenType code either (except the example code for Type 1 Standard-encoded
    fonts, but that is Latin only, anyway). \r\n\r\nAlso, I'd like to point out that
    there is no *obligation* whatsoever to include the DFLT script tag in OpenType
    fonts. Adobe does this in their newest fonts but did not in the older fonts, and
    Microsoft does not use the DFLT script tag at all (and as far as I can tell, they
    have no intention to). \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-28 13:07:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, Adam!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-11-28 13:30:50'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: 'Indeed: when i change the dictionary in InDesign CS3 to English, the font
    behaves as it should. So it must be what Karsten and Adam are pointing out. Thanks
    for that!'
  created: '2007-11-28 14:50:07'
- author:
    name: emenninga
  body: Thanks Karsten -- well understood & described.
  created: '2007-11-28 21:05:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>If fonts with the additional languagesystem statements in the feature
    code are generated with AFDKO2, all is fine.\r\nIf you generate such fonts in
    FontLab Studio 5, there will be an error message. You can ignore this, but you
    need to run the generated .otf fonts through Adam Twardoch\u2019s Fix DFLT Script
    Tag script</em>\r\n\r\nI've built all the feature files as per Adam's instructions,
    but I don't use AFDKO (I can't install it and don't understand Python, they're
    a bit beyond my code comprehension limit).\r\n\r\nSo will the language features
    in a font work properly without the line:\r\n<code>languagesystem DFLT dflt;</code>\r\n\r\nUnless
    I can figure out how to use AFDKO and Python scripting, would I be better off
    to make features language-specific the old way, feature, by feature?"
  created: '2007-11-29 07:35:55'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>but I don\u2019t use AFDKO (I can\u2019t install it</em>\r\n\r\nI've
    just posted installation instructions on the wiki. Check them out: [[AFDKO]]\r\n\r\n>
    <em>Unless I can figure out how to use AFDKO</em>\r\n\r\nOnce you have the tools
    installed and running, try building a font using the files contained in the 'ExampleRomanFonts.zip'
    file, which you can grab from the FDK download page. If you can build this one,
    you're all set.\r\n\r\nI also suggest reading the documentation inside the FDK,
    particularly the 'MakeOTFUserGuide.pdf' and 'CommandLineHowTo.pdf' files.\r\nAnd
    these two other PDFs should help you understand how to use the tools:\r\nhttp://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/typotechnica2007/TypoTechnica2007_FontProduction_at_Adobe.pdf\r\nhttp://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/typotechnica2007/TypoTechnica2007_StateOfTheArt_Font_QE.pdf\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-29 08:15:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks Miguel, I'll give it another shot.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nNo difference--I
    just get this, which is completely incomprehensible to me:\r\n\r\n<code>[Nicks-iMac:~]
    nick% /Applications/FontLab\\ Studio/FDK.1/FinishInstallOSX \r\n\r\nAdding a symbolic
    link from '/Users/nick/bin' to the FDK directory /Applications/FontLab Studio/FDK.1.\r\n\r\nAdding
    the FDK path to your login file...\r\n   I added some lines to the  startup file
    /Users/nick/.login for the tcsh/csh versions of the Terminal program, in order
    to add the 'FDK/Tools/osx' directory to your PATH environment variable.\r\n   I
    added some lines to the  startup file /Users/nick/.profile for the bash/csh/zsh
    versions of the Terminal program,  in order to add the 'FDK/Tools/osx' directory
    to your PATH environment variable.\r\nIf you cannot run the FDK tools by name
    from the command-line after closing this window, then your\r\nTerminal program
    may be using a different login file than the ones I modified.\r\nIf so, you will
    need to identify your login file, and then add the same two lines to that file.
    </code>"
  created: '2007-11-29 09:09:26'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: "Nick,\r\n\r\ni am also quite ignorant of the Python thing, but after reading
    the \u2019CommandLineHowTo.pdf\u2019i managed to get a step further. Important
    is the following procedure as described in the PDF:\r\n\r\nTo change the prompt,
    you need to edit an obscure file that sets parameters for the Terminal program
    when it starts up. Unfortunately, the way the Terminal program works depends on
    which Unix command line program it is setup to use. There are several, and each
    one uses a different name for its startup file, and requires a different line
    of text added to change the prompt. To see which one you have, under the Terminal
    menu option, choose \u201CPreferences\u2026\u201D, and note the line of text in
    the top text field.\r\nProgram name Startup file name Line to add\r\ncsh .cshrc
    set prompt=\"%c$ \"\r\ntcsh .cshrc set prompt=\"%c$ \"\r\nsh .profile PS1='\\W
    $ '\r\nzsh .profile PS1='\\W $ '\r\nbash .bash_profile PS1='\\W $ '\r\n\r\nNotes:
    the quotes need to be included, and must be either both single or both double
    quotes. For sh, zsh, and bash, there must be no spaces on either side of the equals
    sign. You can use any character string you want for the final prompt characters
    instead of \"$ \". I like to have a space at the end of the prompt.\r\nLook in
    your home directory. Unfortunately, files that begin with a period are hidden
    in the Finder.\r\nTo make them visible, open a Terminal window and type the following
    command:\r\ndefaults write com.apple.finder AppleShowAllFiles TRUE\r\nClose all
    Finder windows, switch to another program, and then switch back to the Finder,
    and you will be able to see the hidden files. To hide the files once you are done,
    enter the command line:\r\ndefaults write com.apple.finder AppleShowAllFiles FALSE\r\nIf
    there is no file with the name you need, use a text editor to create it. Add the
    appropriate line (right column), and save it in your home directory. Close the
    Terminal window and open a new one.\r\nNow the prompt should just show your current
    directory and a dollar sign, rather than the full path to the current directory.\r\n\r\nAfter
    creating a file .bash_profile/PS1='\\W $ ' i was able to install AFDKO and it
    appears in FontLab\u2019s Menue Tools/External Tools.\r\nHope that helps a bit."
  created: '2007-11-29 09:39:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks Juergen, I didn't realise that the \"CommandLineHowTo.pdf\" would
    explain how Terminal worked.\r\n\r\nI'll give it another go..."
  created: '2007-11-29 10:01:37'
- author:
    name: rob.davidson
    picture: 112507
  body: "Don't really want to hijack this thread even further, but ...\r\n\r\nAre
    there any Windows specific tips/instructions that are clearer & more \"task oriented\"
    than the FDK documentation? Sorry, but sometimes it reads like \"if you're on
    Windows do <em>x</em>, but on a Mac do <em>y</em>, then <em>z</em>, and by the
    way there's this too\" and Lord only knows what platform we're talking about after
    a few more phrases.\r\n\r\nMaybe I'm way too dense, but I think some straightforward
    Jack-hits-the-ball prose would be more beneficial.\r\n\r\nThanks for the assistance.\r\nRob\r\n\r\nP.S.
    If it matters: using FLS5 on Windows 2000 SP4 with the OS on initial partition,
    applications on second, data on a third. (Honest. It's weird but it works. And
    much less fragmentation to fret about as well.) Currently, FLS5 and Python play
    well together & the previous FDK worked like a charm (miss that GUI, no matter
    how clunky it looked), but the new edition just falls over dead for me.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-29 10:27:09'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>No difference\u2014I just get this</em>\r\n\r\nThat's the normal output
    upon installation. What I'd like to know is, what do you get after going through
    these steps:\r\n1. Open a Terminal window\r\n2. Type <code>autohint -u</code>\r\n3.
    Hit 'Return'\r\n\r\nDo you get something like this below? If so, your installation
    was successful.\r\n\r\n<code>Imported Py23AC v.2.0.1 from /Users/nick/FDK/Tools/osx/FDK.app/Contents/Resources/Python/lib-dynload/Py23AC.so.\r\n\r\nautohint
    \ AutoHinting program v1.14 Jan 3 2007\r\nautohint -h\r\nautohint -u\r\nautohint
    [-g <glyph list>] [-gf <filename>] [-cf path] [-a] [-r] [-q] [-c] [-nf] [-ns]
    [-nb] [-o <output font path>]  font-path\r\n\r\nAuto-hinting program for PostScript
    and OpenType/CFF fonts.\r\nCopyright (c) 2006 Adobe Systems Incorporated</code>"
  created: '2007-11-29 10:46:39'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: Rob, I'm not familiar with using or installing the FDK on Windows, but I can
    try to put up on the wiki a step-by-step installation guide, if that helps.
  created: '2007-11-29 10:49:55'
- author:
    name: rob.davidson
    picture: 112507
  body: "Thanks, Miguel. Your assistance is very much appreciated. (BTW, can't wait
    to put your class kerning script to work.)\r\n\r\nRob"
  created: '2007-11-29 11:03:52'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Nick -- <cite>So will the language features in a font work properly without
    the line:</cite>\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<cite>languagesystem DFLT dflt;</cite>\r\n\r\nYes.
    This is what Adam meant when he wrote this:\r\n<cite>Also, I'd like to point out
    that there is no *obligation* whatsoever to include the DFLT script tag in OpenType
    fonts. Adobe does this in their newest fonts but did not in the older fonts, and
    Microsoft does not use the DFLT script tag at all (and as far as I can tell, they
    have no intention to).</cite> [Quote from Adam's post above.]\r\n\r\nNick --<cite>Unless
    I can figure out how to use AFDKO and Python scripting, would I be better off
    to make features language-specific the old way, feature, by feature?</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    am not sure what you mean by \"the old way\". If you mean: \"without using any
    languagesystem statements\", then no since this would produce mal-functioning
    fonts. If you mean: \"as described in Read Roberts' / Adam Twardoch's posts [links
    in earlier post] but without the DFLT script tag\", then yes. With or without
    'DFLT', it is important that your feature definitions are preceded by statements
    like\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;languagesystem latn dflt;\r\nPut a bit differently:
    Go though all your features and pick all script and language tags you have used,
    and add according languagesystem statements (by this pattern: \"languagesystem\"
    + script tag + language tag + \";\") at the top of your feature definitions (in
    FLS: into the bottom right text field in the OT Panel).\r\nYou do not need to
    add scripts/languages that you did not mention in any feature.\r\n\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*
    * *\r\n\r\nMr Davidson: In the AFDKO's installation readme file, it seems that
    for Windows, only the bulleted paragraph starting \"Under Windows, move ...\"
    is of interest. And for installing the FLS Macros, the one starting \"To install
    the FontLab Macros ...\"\r\nI am an ignorant when it comes to Windows, but with
    this description even managed to set the environment variables.&nbsp;&nbsp;:)\r\n\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*
    * *\r\n\r\nI was reminded that the 'Generate Kern Feature' script requires RoboFab.
    Some updated links: [[RoboFab]]"
  created: '2007-11-29 12:28:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>what do you get after going through these steps:</em>\r\n\r\n<code>command
    not found</code>\r\n\r\nMy problem is that I can't get Terminal to work, despite
    spending many hours with \"CommandLineHowTo.pdf\".\r\n\r\nFor instance, consider
    what happens when I'm instructed to \"save it in your home directory\". On the
    assumption that my \"home directory\" is the one with the cute icon of a house,
    I put the file <code>cshrc/set prompt=\u201D%c$</code> in there, but then when
    I open Terminal, I get the message <code>tcsh: Missing }.</code> So where should
    I put this \"prompt\" file? \r\n\r\n<em>With or without \u2019DFLT\u2019, </em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is the thing that confuses me.\r\nIn the instructions of both Adam's wiki and
    Chris Slye's pdf, they say that the first line in the bottom right FLS panel should
    be:\r\n<code>languagesystem DFLT dflt;</code>\r\n\r\nBut you say,\r\n\r\n<em>If
    you generate such fonts in FontLab Studio 5, there will be an error message. You
    can ignore this, but you need to run the generated .otf fonts through Adam Twardoch\u2019s
    Fix DFLT Script Tag script</em>\r\n\r\nIf I can ignore this, why do I still need
    to run the fonts through a \"Fix\" script?"
  created: '2007-11-29 20:14:36'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Well, if you ignore the error, you'll end up with a font that has some substitutions
    assigned to an unregistered script. It's not tragic but not anywhere near reasonable
    either. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-29 21:26:10'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Ah, I see. Indeed it's a confusing with all these ifs.\r\n\r\nWhen generating
    fonts directly from FLS, there are these two options:\r\n(1) You completely omit
    the line \"languagesystem DFLT dflt;\".\r\n(2) You include this line (and ignore
    FontLab Studio's error message) <em>and also</em> run the generated font through
    Adam's script. This means: you accept the error <em>only because</em> you are
    going to correct it.\r\n\r\nWhen generating fonts via AFDKO 2 (which also means
    that your features are in external files) you can include this line without any
    extra work because AFDKO 2 can deal with it.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2007-11-29 22:09:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "OK, if I omit the line \"languagesystem DFLT dflt;\", how does that effect
    the font?\r\nDoes it mean I have to specify the scripts for every feature, i.e.\r\n\r\n<code>script
    grek;\r\nscript latn;\r\nscript cyrl;</code>\r\n\r\n...and repeat the feature
    code under each?"
  created: '2007-11-29 22:39:39'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "This is my Terminal setup.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Terminal_6413.png]\r\n\r\nTry
    this:\r\n1. Open a Terminal window\r\n\r\n2. Type <code><strong>pwd</strong></code>
    and hit 'return'. This prints the working directory you're in. If this is not
    <code><strong>/Users/nick</strong></code>, type <code><strong>cd /Users/nick</strong></code>
    and hit 'return', otherwise go to the next step.\r\n\r\n3. Type <code><strong>ls
    -al</strong></code> and hit 'return'. This prints the list of files and folders
    in the current directory. You should see a file named <code><strong>.login</strong></code>
    and another named <code><strong>.profile</strong></code> . Even if you don't have
    one or both of these files, proceed to the next step.\r\n\r\n4. Type <code><strong>pico
    .login</strong></code> and hit 'return'. This opens up the .login file in pico,
    a Unix text editor. You should have 3 lines that look like this:\r\n<code><strong>#
    Initialization for FDK command line tools.\r\nsetenv FDK_EXE \"/Users/nick/bin/FDK/Tools/osx\"\r\nsetenv
    PATH ${PATH}:\"/Users/nick/bin/FDK/Tools/osx\"</strong></code>\r\nIf you don't,
    just copy&paste them, WriteOut the file (Ctrl+O) and Exit (Ctrl+W).\r\n\r\n5.
    Type <code><strong>pico .profile</strong></code> and hit 'return'. You should
    see these lines:\r\n<code><strong>PS1=\"\\W\\$ \"\r\nset -a # automatically export
    all variables.\r\n# Initialization for FDK command line tools.\r\nFDK_EXE=\"/Users/nick/bin/FDK/Tools/osx\"\r\nPATH=${PATH}:\"/Users/nick/bin/FDK/Tools/osx\"</strong></code>\r\nIf
    the .profile file does not have the lines above, paste them in, write out the
    file and exit pico.\r\n\r\n6. Close the Terminal window\r\n\r\nThat should be
    it. Let us know if it's finally working.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-29 22:57:21'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Nick, if you omit the line <code>languagesystem DFLT dflt;</code> the fonts
    will still work. The difference is that the DFLT/dflt combo will no longer be
    the default languagesystem. The default languagesystem will be <code>latn/dflt</code>
    instead. Below is a portion of code written with and without DFLT/dflt.\r\n\r\n<code>#####################\r\n######
    NEW WAY ######\r\n\r\nlanguagesystem DFLT dflt;\r\n\r\nlanguagesystem latn dflt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;languagesystem
    latn DEU;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;languagesystem latn TRK;\r\n\r\nlanguagesystem
    cyrl dflt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;languagesystem cyrl SRB;\r\n\r\nlanguagesystem
    grek dflt;\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nfeature dlig {\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;script DFLT;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;language
    dflt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;lookup DLIG_DFLT
    {\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;sub
    c t by c_t;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;sub
    s p by s_p;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;sub
    s t by s_t;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;} DLIG_DFLT;\r\n\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;script
    latn;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;language dflt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;lookup
    DLIG_DFLT;\r\n\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;language TRK include_dflt;\r\n\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;language
    DEU include_dflt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;sub
    c h by c_h;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;sub c k by
    c_k;\r\n\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;script cyrl;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;language
    dflt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;lookup DLIG_DFLT;\r\n\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;language
    SRB include_dflt;\r\n\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;script grek;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;language
    dflt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;lookup DLIG_DFLT;\r\n}
    dlig;\r\n\r\nfeature hist {\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;sub s by longs;\r\n} hist;\r\n\r\n\r\n#####################\r\n######
    OLD WAY ######\r\n\r\nlanguagesystem latn dflt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;languagesystem
    latn DEU;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;languagesystem latn TRK;\r\n\r\nlanguagesystem
    cyrl dflt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;languagesystem cyrl SRB;\r\n\r\nlanguagesystem
    grek dflt;\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nfeature dlig {\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;script latn;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;language
    dflt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;lookup DLIG_DFLT
    {\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;sub
    c t by c_t;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;sub
    s p by s_p;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;sub
    s t by s_t;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;} DLIG_DFLT;\r\n\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;language
    TRK include_dflt;\r\n\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;language DEU include_dflt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;sub
    c h by c_h;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;sub c k by
    c_k;\r\n\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;script cyrl;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;language
    dflt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;lookup DLIG_DFLT;\r\n\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;language
    SRB include_dflt;\r\n\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;script grek;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;language
    dflt;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;lookup DLIG_DFLT;\r\n}
    dlig;\r\n\r\nfeature hist {\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;sub s by longs;\r\n} hist;</code>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-29 23:20:32'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>Does it mean I have to specify the scripts for every feature</em>\r\n\r\nIf
    you want a feature to have the same behavior in all the scripts and languages,
    just put plain/naked 'sub' commands in that feature. See 'hist' above.\r\n\r\nIf
    you want a language to have a different behavior in particular feature, you'll
    need to declare which languages do what*. In the example above, all languages
    have the same behavior in 'dlig' \u2014 described in the DLIG_DFLT lookup\u2014,
    except German. German will inherit all the substitutions from the DLIG_DFLT lookup,
    but will have 2 additional substitutions.\r\n\r\nIf you test such font in InDesign
    CS3 you'll see that the c_h and c_k ligatures will only kick-in when the language
    is German and Discretionary Ligatures is turned on.\r\n\r\n* Big warning: whenever
    you specify a particular behavior for one language, you'll have to specify the
    behavior for *all* the other languages declared upstream in the 'languagesystem'
    lines. Failing to do so will result in a crippled feature where only that one
    language will have lookups implemented."
  created: '2007-11-29 23:57:25'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: /track/
  created: '2007-11-30 07:54:00'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "In FontLab Studio, you put the <code>languagesystem</code> declarations in
    the bottom-right portion of the OpenType panel. The <code>languagesystem</code>
    declarations apply to all features EXCEPT those that have explicitly defined <code>script</code>
    and <code>language</code> declarations inside of feature definitions. In other
    words, the <code>languagesystem</code> list sets up the rules for all features
    while <code>script</code> and <code>language</code> set up exceptions for single
    features. \r\n\r\nIf your font only contains text letters from the Latin alphabet
    plus analphabetics, and it does not use any language exceptions, then you can
    omit the <code>languagesystem</code> declaration. If you use any exceptions (e.g.
    for Turkish f-ligatures) or if your font has Cyrillic or Greek text letters (or
    letters from other scripts), then you have to specify all necessary <code>languagesystem</code>
    entries. Otherwise, your font won't work properly in InDesign CS3 (although it
    may have worked OK in InDesign CS and CS2). \r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2007-11-30 13:38:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, Adam. That makes it clearer to me. It helps because I was doing fine
    untill the CS3 upgrade and wondered why suddenly, my Russian text would not kern
    unless I used the English H&J dictionary, it's Greek to me :-)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-11-30 14:19:20'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Rob, I've updated the [[AFDKO]] wiki entry to include instructions for Windows
    XP.\r\nAs for the Kern Feature Generator script you'll need to have Robofab installed.
    I'm planning to remove that dependency in the next version (thanks Karsten!)"
  created: '2007-12-01 01:07:13'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>If your font only contains text letters from the Latin alphabet plus
    analphabetics, and it does not use any language exceptions, then you can omit
    the languagesystem declaration. If you use any exceptions (e.g. for Turkish f-ligatures)
    or if your font has Cyrillic or Greek text letters (or letters from other scripts),
    then you have to specify all necessary languagesystem entries. Otherwise, your
    font won\u2019t work properly in InDesign CS3 (although it may have worked OK
    in InDesign CS and CS2).</cite>\r\n\r\nNow I'm getting worried. You mean my OT
    fonts that include Greek, but no language tags, might not work in CS3? Does CS3
    take a look at the Unicode and say \"Ah, Ha! those characters are in the Greek
    range, but there is no Greek declaration in this font. Therefore, I'm not going
    to set those characters!\" or some such?\r\n\r\nWe don't use language tags, period.
    But we do occasionally set text with some Greek and Cyrillic. If CS3 requires
    language tags to honor characters or features (with no language declaration),
    we're in trouble. "
  created: '2007-12-01 01:23:26'
- author:
    name: rob.davidson
    picture: 112507
  body: "Thanks, Miguel, that really did the trick for me & AFDKO works like a charm
    (... well, in initial tests anyway). I was puzzled because Python scripts and
    Robofab were already working fine for me, but the hitch turned out to be some
    duplicated references and resorting the sequence of the PATH statement. (Seems
    a Perl interpreter installation scrambled a few registry entries too that I hadn't
    noticed. <em>Grrrr.</em> I have given myself an appropriate dopeslap for overlooking
    that potential earlier.) \r\n\r\nSo, in sum: Thanks again for I am once again
    \"a happy camper,\" so to speak. And now to test that Kern Feature script during
    the weekend...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-01 01:26:22'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "\r\nCharles & others, \r\n\r\nthe OpenType specification prescribes that
    the text is dissected into \"runs\", i.e. portions that contain characters in
    a certain script (writing system, alphabet). OpenType Layout features are always
    registered in specific scripts (Latin, Cyrillic, Greek, Arabic, Hebrew etc., there
    is also a more recent \"default script\" registered by Adobe). \r\n\r\nThe mechanism
    has been described by John Hudson in his seminal article \"Windows Glyph Processing:
    an OpenType Primer\" as early as seven years ago. It is the first article mentioned
    in the \"Developing fonts\" section on the Microsoft Typography website, so it's
    hard to think of a more prominent placement -- see [1].\r\n\r\nIn a complete implementation
    of OpenType Layout, the features registered under the Latin script are applied
    to Latin letters, the features registered under the Cyrillic script are applied
    to Cyrillic letters etc. For non-alphabetic characters, the features that are
    applied to them need to be registered under all scripts that the font supports.
    In addition, they may be registered under the DFLT script so e.g. oldstyle numbers
    of a certain font can be used with Arabic text even though the font does not support
    Arabic. \r\n\r\nMicrosoft Uniscribe is a quite complete implementation of OpenType
    Layout, and has been for many years. In Windows Notepad, if complex script processing
    is enabled on the system, certain OpenType Layout features are applied by default
    to scripts such as Latin, Cyrillic or Greek (ccmp, liga, clig, mark, mkmk, kern
    -- see [2] -- also also calt). Cyrillic ligatures will be applied only if they
    are registered under the cyrl script. \r\n\r\nAdobe InDesign CS3 is also a quite
    complete implementation of OpenType Layout, and follows the same principles. Unlike
    Uniscribe, it does not offer support for complex scripts, but on the other hand
    it offers support for non-default languages for the standard scripts (e.g. you
    can use the Turkish language exclusions for the Latin script), something that
    Uniscribe only offers in theory (as there are no Microsoft applications that use
    that for the standard scripts). \r\n\r\nAdobe InDesign CS2 and earlier versions
    had a SIMPLISTIC implementation of OpenType Layout, which did not dissect the
    text into runs but instead, it blindly applied OpenType Layout features registered
    to the Latin script on all text, regardless of the actual script of the text.
    It was unfortunate that Adobe chose this path at the beginning, but this problem
    has been discussed frequently on Typophile as well as on the OpenType list. Another
    side-effect of Adobe's simplification policy was that if you don't specify any
    languagesystems (i.e. scripts and optionally languages) for the OpenType font
    in the AFDKO feature syntax (used by AFDKO, FontLab Studio and DTL FontMaster),
    all features will be by default registered under Latin script, default language.
    This is explicitly specified -- see [3] -- but I guess some people have implied
    from this that they don't need to worry about languagesystems at all. Well, actually,
    they DO, if their fonts have any alphabetic characters from scripts other than
    Latin (I say \"alphabetic characters\" because there are many fonts that don't
    have real Greek alphabetic characters but have a handful of Greek symbols -- these
    do not fall under the considerations described here as they are treated as \"common
    script\" analphabetics). \r\n\r\nSo, if an OpenType font has Cyrillic or Greek
    letters but its OpenType Layout code registered the features only in the Latin
    script, then the basic functionality of the font will still work (e.g. you will
    be able to type letters) but no OpenType Layout features will work (not even kerning).
    \r\n\r\nThere are OpenType font technology consultants out there (wink wink ;)
    ) who are able to help you out in details, you know. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam\r\n\r\n[1]
    http://www.microsoft.com/typography/DevArticles.mspx\r\n[2] http://www.microsoft.com/typography/OpenType%20Dev/standard/intro.mspx\r\n[3]
    http://www.adobe.com/devnet/opentype/afdko/topic_feature_file_syntax.html"
  created: '2007-12-01 04:06:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks Miguel, I think I have AFDKO installed -- at least, the \"autohint\"
    test works OK now.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nIn the above \"NEW WAY\" code you posted,
    FontLab tells me that it's a mistake to specify \"script latn;\" as \"script DFLT;\"
    has already determined latin as the script--\r\n\r\n<code>feature dlig {\r\n   script
    DFLT;\r\n      language dflt;\r\n         lookup DLIG_DFLT {\r\n            sub
    c t by c_t;\r\n            sub s p by s_p;\r\n            sub s t by s_t;\r\n
    \        } DLIG_DFLT;\r\n\r\n   script latn;</code>\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-01 07:40:04'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>I think I have AFDKO installed \u2014 at least, the \u201Cautohint\u201D
    test works OK now.</em>\r\n\r\nGlad to hear that, as I was running out of suggestions
    for your problem. \r\n\r\n> <em>FontLab tells me that it\u2019s a mistake to specify
    \u201Cscript latn;\u201D as \u201Cscript DFLT;\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nAs it was said
    around here many many times before, FontLab still uses v1.6 of the FDK and therefore
    it gives an error when <code>script DFLT</code> is used.\r\n\r\nI can assure you
    that the code posted above will compile (and work as expected in InDesign CS3)
    if you use FDK v2.0, since that's essentially the same code that was used for
    Arno Pro."
  created: '2007-12-01 20:12:02'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: Why VOLT won't accept   -- languagesystem DFLT
  created: '2007-12-23 21:03:29'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Adam:  <em>Also, I\u2019d like to point out that there is no *obligation*
    whatsoever to include the DFLT script tag in OpenType fonts. Adobe does this in
    their newest fonts but did not in the older fonts, and Microsoft does not use
    the DFLT script tag at all (and as far as I can tell, they have no intention to).</em>\r\n\r\n\r\nSo,
    why Adobe does this, and MS doesn't? \r\n"
  created: '2007-12-23 23:18:13'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Microsoft is primarily interested in implementing language support for complex
    scripts in their applications, and mostly targets office users. So dingbat, agate-numerals-only,
    fractions-only etc. fonts are not their concern. Adobe is more design-savvy and
    tries to address the community of graphic designers, typographic designers, publication
    designers. Here, uses of fonts outside of a strong language context are more likely,
    so Adobe wanted a solution for that and proposed the DFLT script tag. The DFLT
    script tag is a \"new thing\" and Microsoft does not think they need it, since
    they did not feel a need for it from the beginning. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-12-30 13:23:52'
date: '2007-11-27 16:24:19'
title: InDesign CS3 problem with OT-feature Proportional Oldstyle

---
