---
author:
  name: loremipsum
body: "Does anyone think it makes sense to say that in most, or very many cases you
  can judge how good a typeface is designed looking specifically at the lowercase
  \u201Ca\u201D? I can't express it more \"scientifically\" and it surely is an extreme
  statement, but anyway: do you find some amount of truth in it, or is it in your
  opinion just pure b.s.?\r\nRelated: does lowercase \u201Ca\u201D say much more about
  the overall character of the typeface than the other glyphs?"
comments:
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: No.
  created: '2007-11-27 21:33:34'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: For interesting thoughts on this check out the ES extras on the Helvetica
    DVD.
  created: '2007-11-27 21:36:49'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>does lowercase \u201Ca\u201D say much more about the overall character
    of the typeface than the other glyphs?</cite>\r\nMore than \u20AC, &, \xA9? Yes.\r\nMore
    than l, 1, I? Probably.\r\nMore than R, e, g? No."
  created: '2007-11-27 21:39:14'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: "I just don't know - all typefaces I don't like, starting with Arial, have
    an ugly \u201Ca\u201D. In all typefaces that I love, I consider \u201Ca\u201D
    a very successful design. It's just experience. I could not consider Arial ugly
    only seeing its \u201Cb\u201D or \u201Ct\u201D."
  created: '2007-11-27 21:40:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: The quality of a typeface is more about the way the letters combine than what
    they look like individually.
  created: '2007-11-27 21:40:52'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: "\"More than R, e, g? No.\"\r\n\r\nI feel like I don't agree :-)"
  created: '2007-11-27 21:45:03'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: There can be a series of letters which can define the the characteristics
    of a typeface. The most common of them are &, @, ?, 4, $, a, e, f, g, G, K, Q,
    R, S and W. But it also depends on the typeface.
  created: '2007-11-27 21:50:24'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: "\"The quality of a typeface is more about the way the letters combine than
    what they look like individually.\"\r\n\r\nNick, no one could disagree with that.
    It's just my experience that typefaces where letters are combined very well are
    incidentally (?) those that also contain a very good lowercase a."
  created: '2007-11-27 21:50:33'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: "\"There can be a series of letters which can define the the characteristics
    of a typeface. The most common of them are &, @, ?, 4, $, a, e, f, g, G, K, Q,
    R, S and W.\"\r\n\r\nOk, but I am not talking about differential traits that easily
    identify a typeface. It's much more about its \u201Cfeel\u201D."
  created: '2007-11-27 21:53:20'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "One aspect of a typeface's <cite>quality</cite> is the consistency with which
    its <cite>feel</cite> is embodied by each glyph. Success in this respect (i.e.,
    homogeneousness) can't be reflected by a single glyph, only failure can. \r\n\r\n>>Nick,
    no one could disagree with that. It\u2019s just my experience that typefaces where
    letters are combined very well are incidentally (?) those that also contain a
    very good lowercase a.\r\n\r\nThis is probably the case, but I'm not sure they're
    related. Save that maybe individuals who produce very even typefaces are coincidentally
    also handy at drawing lowercase a's. "
  created: '2007-11-27 22:06:07'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: This seems very subjective. Couldn't you say the same thing about the "g"
    or "e"? And "good" is a matter of opinion as well. There is a type designer whose
    "S" and "s" I don't care for, but I seem to like the rest of his typefaces, it's
    just those particular glyphs that look odd to me.
  created: '2007-11-27 22:10:29'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "Well, if you just want to feel the face style; \"Aa\" pair can do but, you
    really cant judge the quality of that face until unless you see it in a running
    text.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AA_6670.jpg]"
  created: '2007-11-27 22:14:52'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: "I think it applies more to text faces.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aR_6435.jpg]\r\n\r\nAlthough
    R is very characteristic and useful to ID a typeface, it seems to me somehow that
    \"a\" tells me much more about the rest of the typeface. It's like reading age,
    race, social position and temperament from a human face."
  created: '2007-11-27 22:36:00'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Loremipsum it seems to me that you just want people to bow down at the wisdom
    of your theory here, but that's not how this forum generally works. You've gotten
    a bunch of varying opinions and all you've done is reassert what you said in your
    initial post. Maybe you should listen to some of the other voices. \r\n\r\nThe
    lower case \"a\" is not the first character I look at. I am more likely to choose
    or reject a font because of its R."
  created: '2007-11-27 22:38:12'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Plus if all you care about is how the "a" looks, you'll probably never buy
    an Emigre font. They have some sort of obsession with the squared off "a" which
    tends to stand out like a sore thumb and ruins some otherwise very decent and
    usable fonts.
  created: '2007-11-27 22:41:54'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: "\"it seems to me that you just want people to bow down at the wisdom of your
    theory here\"\r\n\r\nAbsolutely no. I only wanted to explain more exactly what
    I mean because answers like \"you really cant judge the quality of that face until
    unless you see it in a running text\" are very predictable and, yes - they are
    true.\r\n\r\nI wanted to check if someone happens to have the same experience,
    that's all."
  created: '2007-11-27 22:45:30'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: "\"Plus if all you care about is how the \u201Ca\u201D looks, ...\"\r\n\r\nThat's
    not what I'm saying. I would prefer to use a typeface that I like less if it fits
    a purpose better.\r\nMy \"theory\", as you named it, applies to the general beauty,
    balance and craftsmanship of a typeface. This is to explain, not to ask others
    to bow down :-) If you think it's nonsense, I'm ok with it."
  created: '2007-11-27 22:55:26'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I always look to the lowercase a of a typeface to judge the style of it and
    it is also the most useful glyph for type recognition in my opinion.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2007-11-27 22:58:52'
- author:
    name: dstype
    picture: 111104
  body: "I always start my typefaces by designing the lowercase 'a'. It's one of the
    most used glyphs in dozens of languages, and I believe it shows perfectly the
    character of any typeface. This doesn't mean that I disagree with Nick. What he
    wrote is true and I guess no one will deny it. I'm just saying that the 'a' is
    very important to any type design, in the sense that will allow the understanding
    of several other glyphs like 'n', 'm', 'u', 'h' and so on.\r\n\r\nI draw the 'a'
    all the time. My sketch books are full of them.\r\n\r\nA few months ago my daughter
    asked me why was I always drawing the 'a', she said that even with 8 years she
    already knew how tho write more letters than myself. Who is you teacher, she asked
    me. \r\n\r\nThat's hard to ear ;^)"
  created: '2007-11-27 23:04:05'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I don't think it's nonsense if it works for you - and for Hector. It just
    seemed you weren't open to what others had to say.\r\n\r\nFunny you didn't include
    Futura - or other geometrics - in your graphic above. Futura's lower case 'a'
    is pretty much a deal-breaker for me."
  created: '2007-11-27 23:04:46'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Somehow I do seem to look at the 'a' of typefaces specifically. I don't know
    if it's an indicator for the overal <em>quality</em> of the font, but I guess
    I do find it an important glyph.
  created: '2007-11-27 23:25:57'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: "\"Funny you didn\u2019t include Futura - or other geometrics - in your graphic
    above. Futura\u2019s lower case \u2019a\u2019 is pretty much a deal-breaker for
    me.\"\r\n\r\nFutura is quite an unusual typeface where characters need some specific
    optical corrections to work well with the rest of characters and to fit its purpose.
    As the result, a single letter may not look that beautiful.\r\nBut then, I said
    \"in most, or very many cases\", not \"all cases\"."
  created: '2007-11-27 23:34:20'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: "\"...maybe individuals who produce very even typefaces are coincidentally
    also handy at drawing lowercase a\u2019s.\"\r\nMaybe this is what I observe?\r\n\r\n\"...but
    I\u2019m not sure they\u2019re related.\"\r\nThis is why I asked my question!"
  created: '2007-11-27 23:45:44'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "In Canada, we use the lowercase \"eh\". ;-)\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2007-11-28 00:06:47'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">In Canada, we use the lowercase \u201Ceh\u201D. ;-)\r\n\r\nat least you're
    not using the \"dubya\" :-("
  created: '2007-11-28 00:22:40'
- author:
    name: ryanholmes
  body: "<<Plus if all you care about is how the \u201Ca\u201D looks, you\u2019ll
    probably never buy an Emigre font. They have some sort of obsession with the squared
    off \u201Ca\u201D which tends to stand out like a sore thumb and ruins some otherwise
    very decent and usable fonts.>>\r\n\r\nI would say Emigre's inability to understand
    the concept of word spacing in their designs, is a bigger problem than designing
    a quirky \"a\".\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-28 01:06:58'
- author:
    name: Gary Long
    picture: 112662
  body: "I have rejected typefaces (for book typesetting) because of the lowercase
    a, f, g, and y, as well as the uppercase G. But these were exceptional cases:
    normally I judge by overall consistency, eveness of colour, legibility, good kerning,
    and I don't mind if a particular glyph in isolation isn't maybe what I think is
    ideal. Since it does appear to so often, the l.c. \"a\" needs to be at least not
    badly designed. It's one of the trickier letters (I find) to get \"right\". I'm
    sure type designers spend extra time on the trickier glyphs to make sure they
    are right.\r\n\r\nIn Canada we have a lowercase \"zed\" too, but it looks the
    same as the U.S. \"zee.\""
  created: '2007-11-28 02:29:54'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Lowercase \"a\" *can be* the mark of a decent font, but it is by no means
    a measuring stick in any general sense. I emphasize \"can be\". It isn't always
    true. Plenty of \"good\" text fonts consisting of eye-pleasing letters that work
    well together as a team are equipped with an excellent lowercase \"a\". Plenty
    of other \"not-so-good\" text fonts consisting of letters that grate on the eye
    and work together poorly are also equipped with a good or excellent lowercase
    \"a\".\r\n\r\nIn a well-designed font the lowercase \"a\" is often a useful starting
    point for assessing the overall style and character of the face (as Hector says),
    but it's only a starting point and never an absolute. \"a\" alone tells you nothing
    about integration in a typeface design.\r\n\r\n<em>I would say Emigre\u2019s inability
    to understand the concept of word spacing in their designs, is a bigger problem
    than designing a quirky \u201Ca\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nYou're talking word spacing
    or letter spacing? Please post some examples. Mazda use Emigre's Base series unmodified,
    with no spacing problems, to promote their cars. I've used Matrix and Filosophia
    for editorial advertising and never had any problems with word spacing or letter
    fit.\r\n\r\n<em>Futura\u2019s lower case \u2019a\u2019 is pretty much a deal-breaker
    for me.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's a hard-core type user :^)\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-11-28 02:49:34'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: oops wrong thread
  created: '2007-11-28 02:58:38'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "I actually never thought of that, I guess I can not judge a typeface until
    I played with it a little, but the truth is, everytime my hands are free and I'm
    drawing a letter in a notebook or on a tablecloth, it is a lowercase a. I guess
    I give it more importance than to the others. Dunno why. It's the first one? It's
    the most beautiful? It's the one that bears the most distinctive characteristics
    of the font?\r\n\r\n\"Mmmh This IS a tasty font\" (Samuel Jackson, Pulp Fiction)\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2007-11-28 08:05:55'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "For a classy text font, assuming all the other characters are in synch, and
    extender lengths, metrics, spacing and so on are well sorted, <strong>a</strong>
    does tend \"bear the most distinctive characteristics of the font\". In that sense
    <strong>a</strong> does more to set the personality or tone of a font than any
    other single letter. One exception is all-caps settings where no part of the lower
    case is seen.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-11-28 08:49:21'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Come on, loremipsum, all you really want is a personalized type ID quiz!
    ;\xB0p\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/typequiz_4751.gif]\r\n(No, you don\u2019t
    <em>have</em> to do that)"
  created: '2007-11-28 08:55:56'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: "Thanks, Florian :-)\r\n\r\nYou see, that second character in the second row,
    for example, is Monotype Bodoni? I like this Bodoni a little less than other Bodonis
    and yes, I like less its \u201Ca\u201D as well.\r\nOf course, I would use this
    typeface if it was more suitable for the purpose than let's say ITC Bodoni."
  created: '2007-11-28 12:20:23'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>You see, that second character in the second row, for example, is Monotype
    Bodoni?</cite>\r\n\r\nYeah, that\u2019s Bodoni! You passed the <strong>a</strong>-level!
    ;-)\r\n(Actually, it\u2019s URW Bodoni \u2013 its tail doesn\u2019t point upwards)\r\n\r\nAnd
    \u2013 I have to admit \u2013 while browsing through fonts, I realized the \u2018a\u2019
    <em>can be</em> more characteristic than I have supposed before."
  created: '2007-11-28 12:51:55'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I am with Nick Shinn on this. Really all the way. It's about the relationships.
    I have been astonished more than once at what seemed like a really crappy 'a'
    in a typeface only to find that in the context of a line of it was working very
    very well. I can understand how looking at a beautiful 'a' could lead you to start
    thinking like this but I think it's a mistaken idea even if it is is a compelling/romantic
    one at first blush.
  created: '2007-11-28 17:35:10'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>can be</em>\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-11-29 07:02:54'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: I must really be a moron because I find myself attracted to the curves in
    the lowercase "m," "n" and "h". And I also check out the lc "v". Then the lc "a"
    and "e". And the tail on the lowercase "t".While I find Mr. Shinn's observations
    a bit purist, certainly in the long run he is correct. However the world is inundated
    with people who buy CDs for a single song, a house for a single room, etc. What
    convinces the general public to buy a font, I believe, is the look of the individual
    letters because most of them aren't even aware of the word "kerning." In more
    commercial or esoteric situations, however, obviously what Mr. Shinn writes is
    almost the end all and be all.
  created: '2007-11-29 11:31:08'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>One aspect of a typeface\u2019s quality is the consistency with which
    its feel is embodied by each glyph.</em>\r\n\r\nI call it \"integration\". \r\n\r\n<em>Success
    in this respect (i.e., homogeneousness) can\u2019t be reflected by a single glyph,
    only failure can.</em>\r\n\r\nPurely for the sake of debate---success at integration
    cannot be assessed by looking at one letter, even if the face is indeed well integrated.
    Failure of integration cannot be judged by looking at one letter either. Failure
    of integration can be established by looking at the whole font.\r\n\r\n<em>In
    more commercial or esoteric situations, however, obviously what Mr. Shinn writes
    is almost the end all and be all.</em>\r\n\r\nIf you say so. Nick is very perceptive
    and lucid in his observations, but so too are many others. I think your impression
    is based on relative prominence. Nick is prominent but he's not the only person
    to write about type.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-11-29 11:45:26'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: In referring to Mr. Shinn's "end all" comment, I meant ultimately it is how
    the letters look together that determines the quality of a font. Otherwise they
    are just individual letters.
  created: '2007-11-29 11:55:14'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "That's okay. I see what you meant. No problem-o :^)\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-11-29 12:07:11'
- author:
    name: Inari Kiuru
  body: "Perhaps, really, the beauty is sometimes in the eye of the beholder: \r\n\r\nJust
    like different people are attracted to different things, visually, for various
    reasons, it could perhaps be said that each individual is first attracted, or
    instinctively notices, slightly different aspects of a typeface. This would come
    down to personality, taste, experience, character -- some love \"curves\", some
    love \"long legs\"!\r\n\r\nThere might also be a difference between what we gather
    from looking at a typeface through a 'hunch' (a subconscious response, a first
    feeling, something that a single letterform might evoke) and a more logical, methodical
    analysis of it (further study of each individual letter and symbol together).
    \r\n\r\nTypography is life is typography.\r\n\r\nIK"
  created: '2007-11-30 08:55:43'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I like Dino's point. I'm always drawing the letter a in my notepads and sketchbooks.
    Perhaps because it's the first letter of the 'bet. \r\n\r\nIt's also one of the
    easiest ways to determine the historical origin of a typeface, or the underlying
    foundational structure of a typeface.\r\n\r\nIf the lc a isn't working for me,
    I'm done with it. It's the primary reason why I hate ITC Garamond, amongst many
    reasons to hate that face. "
  created: '2007-11-30 09:08:24'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "<cite>Does anyone think it makes sense to say that in most, or very many
    cases you can judge how good a typeface is designed looking specifically at the
    lowercase \u201Ca\u201D?</cite>\r\n\r\nI agree in a way, so I would say yes \u2013
    but only if the typeface is well designed, that it is consistent in its shapes.
    But I also think the O, o and g holds identity in a typeface. Not to mention the
    H."
  created: '2007-11-30 16:03:14'
date: '2007-11-27 21:30:05'
node_type: forum
title: Lowercase a - the typeface design quality indicator?

---
