---
author:
  name: David Rault
  picture: 112608
body: "I was wondering, how many of you own metal types? Why do you still have them
  (apart from using them, if you also own a traditional printing machine)? Where did
  you get them? Which types are they?...\r\n\r\ndr"
comments:
- author:
    name: rjohnston
  body: "I bought a set of metal type and an old hand press at Ludlow market (Shropshire,
    England) for \xA350 about 4 years ago. Unfortunately the press turned out to be
    missing parts and I never got round to fixing it, so I've never used it. It came
    with a big set of Caslon and some Copperplate. I can post photos if anyone's interested
    ...\r\n\r\nRobert"
  created: '2007-11-28 09:26:39'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: I don't have metal type, but I do own several wood types.
  created: '2007-11-28 09:50:52'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "rjohnston: yes, please upload some pics, that's be nice.\r\n\r\nWhat i mean
    is, we all use several typefaces everyday, but how many of us could have the luck
    to see the real thing? I do own a 24pts complete set of Mistral, and its something
    strange and beautiful to see a typeface as something real, nowadays. \r\n\r\nI
    also have some letters from a Baskerville set, 14pts, and about a hundred capitals
    of Futura bold, 24pts. I'd love to put my hands on some Helvetica and Garamond.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2007-11-28 11:08:10'
- author:
    name: writingdesigning
    picture: 112522
  body: "\"...see the real thing?\"\r\n\r\nIsn't that a slightly emotional response
    David? \r\n\r\nWhy should type be any less real in another application.... a printed
    page, photo-composed film, or if you'd like to respond to it as an object, the
    3D letters on a beautifully crafted sign? \r\n\r\nI'm not denying a certain magic
    when you hold metal-type, feeling its weight in your hands, playing around with
    its surfaces etc. I'm just wondering if its not emotional rather than 'real'."
  created: '2007-11-28 14:42:36'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Well, I think you can call it 'real' in the sense that a lot of the classic
    fonts we still use today were once designed for / made in metal type.
  created: '2007-11-28 14:43:29'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I have a few - but not for use. I have a beautiful set of my last name (alas
    the F has recently gone missing) a friend bought me in Paris - kind of a "better"
    Futura Condensed, and another set of a script that I got at a flea market.
  created: '2007-11-28 14:46:52'
- author:
    name: writingdesigning
    picture: 112522
  body: "\"Well, I think you can call it \u2019real\u2019 in the sense that a lot
    of the classic fonts we still use today were once designed for / made in metal
    type.\"\r\n\r\nI'd think so if it were the actual punches. Where you'd have an
    almost direct contact with the designer's work.\r\n\r\n...oops I'm going off topic.
    Sorry."
  created: '2007-11-28 15:11:41'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Well sorry but for me, a metal type IS the real thing, as well as the drafts
    and drawings from the typographer. I once saw the original drawings of Gill Sans,
    and It was unforgettable - I felt that I was in front of Gill Sans for the first
    time. I do respect today's typographers work which is sometimes entirely virtual,
    of course, but I am very much attached to the feeling, the touch, the smell. \r\n\r\nI've
    been designing websites for 6 years, making litterally hundreds, and one day I
    woke up and I realized that all I did was putting virtual 0s and 1s in the correct
    order, that when the computer power is turned off, there is nothing left from
    all these years of hard working. Digital is great, but I feel like we lost something
    on the way. \r\n\r\nI'm wondering, how many of you fine typographers would feel
    really happy to hold in their hands a complete metal set of your latest digital
    type in 24 pts? \r\n\r\nSo, yes, my answer is emotional, and I do believe that
    emotions play a great deal in what you love to do as a craft.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2007-11-28 15:24:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I inherited a small hand press and some metal type (Gill Sans Regular and
    Bold, Times Roman, Bodoni Ultra, and Palace Script--also some lovely ornaments)
    from my grandfather when I was 17, and I worked with them for a few years before
    passing them on. \r\n\r\nWhile I preferred working subsequently with phototype
    and now digital type, I still enjoy letterpress type--but as a bibliophile."
  created: '2007-11-28 15:57:35'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I had the great good fortune to make type with Jim Rimmer pantograph, molten
    lead & all. \r\n\r\nphotos: http://www.flickr.com/photos/ebensorkin/sets/72157601705177162/\r\n\r\nThe
    type from that exercise is all that I have.\r\n\r\nAs to realness, it's all destined
    to go away eventually. Some will take longer than others but in time it will all
    go. "
  created: '2007-11-28 17:19:25'
- author:
    name: writingdesigning
    picture: 112522
  body: "\"So, yes, my answer is emotional, and I do believe that emotions play a
    great deal in what you love to do as a craft.\"\r\n\r\nWell said! There's no arguing
    with those sentiments. \r\n\r\nIn spite of never having the great good fortune
    seeing anything as inspirational as the original drawings of Gill Sans (where
    do they sit?) I can identify with most of what you say. \r\n\r\nMy only reason
    for intervening was because I felt we sometimes tend to be rather backward-looking
    when it comes to these things. Not being a web designer, I still do not really
    miss the tactile element in my work, but I agree with you that an earlier era
    of printing/typography offered kinds of satisfaction that were qualitatively different
    (not necessarily better) from what we get today.\r\n\r\nYou'll surely agree that
    typography like any craft can retain it's robustness only if it redefines itself
    continually. And in that sense to call metal-type the real thing is to somewhat
    discount all the work that has happened post-letterpress.... the works of a Frutiger,
    or a Spekermann can't be any less the real thing just because the dominant reproduction
    process of our time is not letterpress\r\n\r\nAgain, as I said, I'm not arguing
    with what you say. Just another, not even very original, point of view :)\r\n\r\n\r\n
    \r\n\r\n\r\n  \r\n    "
  created: '2007-11-28 17:23:56'
- author:
    name: vanina
    picture: 113631
  body: "My mom was a copyeditor, so when I was a kid she'd take me to the press with
    her. One of the typesetters used to press my initial into my forehead. \"See!
    Your letter's on your forehead now!\" Little did he know where all that would
    lead me. \r\n\r\nSure wish I had those types, but I have a 10-pt lowercase \"a\"
    from the letterpress at school. I hope Tiffany doesn't read this."
  created: '2007-11-28 17:54:20'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: "\"Digital is great, but I feel like we lost something on the way.\"\r\nDavid,
    I understand that blues about electronica killing heavy metal :-)"
  created: '2007-11-28 18:56:04'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: "I rescue metal type from Ebay when I can afford it... some people price it
    pretty outrageously per piece, aiming at the trinket market. My best rescue is
    a bunch of gorgeous big Egyptian metal type which was going to be melted down.
    I bought all the guy had, as I couldn't bear to think of it going away. I don't
    have a press of my own... maybe someday.\r\n\r\nVanina, what's with the stab at
    TIffany?"
  created: '2007-11-28 19:26:45'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: :^D Ah she is talking about BYU. Vanina I don't work for BYU anymore. You
    have no need to apologize to me. ;^)
  created: '2007-11-28 19:53:21'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "When I was up at the printing museum in North Andover, the curator, Gardner
    Lepoer, told me that the museum was in the process of unloading more than a ton
    of lead type in response to a spike in the lead market. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-28 19:54:01'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"I\u2019m wondering, how many of you fine typographers would feel really
    happy to hold in their hands a complete metal set of your latest digital type
    in 24 pts?\"\r\n\r\nWell, I'm not what you would call a fine typographer. Will
    Powers, Kent Lew yes. I'm a type designer, hoping to be good at that. Middling
    typographer (very old-fashioned). \r\n\r\nI have been fascinated with the idea
    of hand-cutting punches for a typeface and having it produced. It certainly isn't
    a practical idea, as it would take so much time and effort, but I appreciate the
    tactile attraction of the materials. I remember the way I felt when I first got
    a proof of my type off a laser printer (electric!), and I imagine I'd feel the
    same seeing my types chugging out of a Monotype caster. \r\n\r\nPart of my fascination
    is seeing the 3 types that Rudolf Koch cut by hand for machine production; they
    really have something marvelous in them; there's something ineffable when type
    is cut at the same size it's cast. Each size has to be different, so they are
    more like versions; interpretations, like with Caslon. \r\n\r\nI own a small press
    but it needs a part, and I have zero metal type. No room for that yet. "
  created: '2007-11-28 22:16:16'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Sure wish I had those types, but I have a 10-pt lowercase \u201Ca\u201D
    from the letterpress at school.</cite>\r\n\r\nI had a teacher who loved letterpress,
    but had to stop teaching it because so many people stole one letter, and eventually
    the school didn\u2019t have a full set of anything above 12 points.\r\n\r\nDo
    what people who steal from the Petrified Forest do\u2014mail it back."
  created: '2007-11-29 00:18:31'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "I'm lucky enough to have access to the Pierson/Davenport Book Arts Center
    at Yale. I just finished my apprentice course there, but we have (literally) tons
    of metal type, with a whole new stash just arrived from another (maybe defunct)
    press. I was truly in awe the first time I saw it. I haven't had a chance to explore
    the \"Type Library\" room much -- yet -- but I did get to use some terrific Palatino
    Swash, which I'd never seen before.\r\n\r\nI myself only have three letters of
    Packard that I rescued from being thrown out when someone pied a bunch of type.
    Pied, for anyone who hasn't spent time in a print shop (like me until three months
    ago), means that the type was jumbled; the printer decided it wasn't worth resorting
    it all.\r\n\r\nIf anyone's in New Haven in the future, I do recommend seeing if
    you can stop in for a bit -- we have seven presses, if I remember correctly, platen,
    hand, and Vandercook. It's really an ideal stomping ground for someone into this
    stuff."
  created: '2007-11-29 02:17:45'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I've got a small collection of metal type -- my name from a very old Linotype
    machine that my uncle had, set in Times (I think -- I haven't dug it out for awhile);
    a line of type of my name and the date from when I did the tour of the GPO in
    DC; some bits from a set of type I bought at a garage sale in NYC (also packed
    away in some box), and the five printer's ornaments I got from Jim Rimmer when
    I was out at the Wayzgoose.\r\n\r\nIf I could find a Kelsey in good shape and
    not outrageously priced, I'd buy it in a heartbeat."
  created: '2007-11-29 03:47:56'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "David R.\r\n\r\nI still have about a ton of metal foundry type. This is downsized
    to about 1/8th of what I once had. It's romantic as hell. So what? \r\n\r\nType
    is type. Good type is good type. Bad type is bad type. Doesn't matter if it is
    metal, film, or digital.\r\n\r\nI print letterpress but now only with digital
    type.\r\n\r\nGerald  \r\n\r\n\r\nThe Bieler Press\r\nhttp://BielerPress.blogspot.com"
  created: '2007-11-29 07:18:35'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Well\r\n\r\nFrom what I've read so far, it still seems some of us are feeling
    kinda nostalgic when thinking about this era, when you could touch type. I used
    to give typo lessons, and I remember how it felt to leave my house in the morning
    with types in my pocket. I mean, to most of the young typographers today, this
    sentence is surreal: \"types in my pocket\". Take a look at the limited edition
    Helvetica DVD: the most precious artefact in there, wrapped in a beautiful bag,
    just like diamonds in a james bond movie, is ONE letter from some Helvetica set...
    It became a luxurious curiosity. \r\n\r\nThough, again, I want to make sure I'm
    not misunderstood: I love, admire and respect the latest typographer's job. I
    have no doubt that Erik Spiekermann and Adrian Frutiger also did the \"real thing\".
    I j ust... Well, you get my point.\r\n\r\nI'd love to get some letters from the
    greatest types, I'm wandering around ebay or flea markets from time to time until
    I get the chance to do so at an affordable price. I'd be proud to own a little
    bit of Bodoni, Helvetica, Akzidenz, Baskerville...\r\n\r\nWritingdesigning: you
    can see some of Gill Sans' original sketches at St Bride Printing Library, in
    London (yes in England - what a surprise)... If you have the opportunity, don't
    miss it.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2007-11-29 08:14:39'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I do have a couple of loose characters lying around, but that's not really
    interesting to be honest. I do like whole cases with type though. At my school
    the letterpress workshop has quite a lot of cases of metal type; different faces
    in different sizes. \r\n\r\n- Akzidenz Grotesk (Mager/Normaal/Smal/Breed in 6--48
    pts.) \r\n- Nobel Regular/Light (10 pts.) \r\n- Grotesque called 'Annonce' (Bold,
    12--60 pts.) \r\n- Bodoni (Normal/Italic/Bold 10--36 pts.) \r\n- A Garamond (it
    looks a bit like the one ITC based its garamond on, sort of ugly) (Roman/Italic/Semibold
    6--36 pts. There are also swash initials and caps present for most sizes.)\r\n-
    Helvetica (Light/Normal/Semibold/Cursive) Helvetica Extended (Light/Normal/Semibold
    in about 7--72 pts.) \r\n- Volta (Regular/Semibold/Bold/ 10--36 pts.)\r\n- A didot-like
    face called Arsis (20--48 pts.)\r\n- a wide serif called Promotor (16--36pts.)\r\n-
    Something that resembles (or is) Mistral (not much sizes), \r\n- Gill Sans Bold
    or Black unfortunately only in 36pts.\r\n\r\nSome intermediate pointsizes (in
    between like 10--36) might not be there, I'm not sure exactly.\r\n\r\nAlso Helvetica
    in wood in different sizes, measured in augustijn (or cicero), from relatively
    small to huge. Both Normal and Condensed. And one or two more woodtypes of which
    I don't know the name."
  created: '2007-11-29 12:11:21'
- author:
    name: Steve Tiano
  body: "David, thanks for starting this thread. Got me to thinking about some long-forgotten
    typesetting \u201Cexperience\u201D I have. But first, to answer your  question,
    sadly, I have no metal types.\r\n\r\nBack in the late 1960s, as a high school
    freshman, in New York, I had to take a sampling of \u201Cshop\u201D classes, once
    of which was printing. For one-quarter of the school year we set real, metal type
    and printed stuff. Although I remember the awful wooden footstool I made in the
    quarter-semester woodshop (I later chose tech electronics as the shop class for
    the  three years that followed), for the life of me I haven\u2019t a clue to anything
    specific we printed.\r\n\r\nI wish to God I\u2019d appreciated it more\u2014or,
    in fact, that I had chosen printing instead of electronics, which, it turned out,
    I really wasn\u2019t interested in. Truth is, at the time, my plan was to be a
    novelist. So printing might have somehow made more sense and gotten me where I
    wound up a lot sooner."
  created: '2007-11-29 13:04:36'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "I've got a lot of California job cases full of Monotype and foundry type
    in a cold Minnesota garage. Anybody want it? Come see it and make me an offer.
    Mice love the little sections of the job case; they nestle into little nests there
    and soon the case fills up with mouse shit [can we say \"shit\" here?]. \r\n\r\nWe
    hauled this stuff from California 20 years ago as we ended our long careers as
    letterpress printers. Why we still have this stuff is beyond me. I suppose it
    is some emotional tie to our fabulous younger days printing & publishing poetry
    and much else and rambling around San Francisco with the vibrant community of
    others the same age doing the same thing [and also hanging with our revered elders].
    The garage has to be re-built, and I suppose this will all go to the scrap yard
    soon. Most of the typoe has mouldered some through wet summers and cold winters.
    I sure hope that font of Fry's Ornamented I bought from Stephenson Blake about
    17 years ago is not out there. I have not seen it in years, though. Why did I
    buy it?\r\n\r\nThere's nothing special to me about metal type. I'm a typographer
    because I'm interested in the way type looks on the page, not in how it got there.
    Letterpress is different than offset, not better. Metal type to me is no more
    real than the type I am setting right now and that you may soon read on your screen.
    Offset is so darn good today, and so many text types are so well made: we are
    in a golden age of typography. \r\n\r\nBut as I look to the possibility of retiring
    from daily work in a few years, I think about getting a platen press and a Ludlow
    machine and doing some letterpress again. But I hope I never print letterpress
    from computer-generated type. To me the craft connection of setting type, locking
    it up, making ready the press, printing the sheets, and then distributing the
    type is the very essence of the work. I am happy to say I have developed a very
    different, but very strong level of craft connection as I work at a computer.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2007-11-29 14:39:24'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "I've got a lot of metal type and a Vandercook in storage in my basement.
    Mostly ATF type, and mostly News Gothic and the Century family. Totally plain
    Jane, and in my opinion, totally classic, totally timeless. Totally, if I haven't
    said totally enough, perfect for my needs. It is my first love. I used to use
    it a lot, before I took a job as a high-tech digital designer, when we lived in
    a house that had a wonderfully convenient studio space off the attached garage...ahhh...good
    memories. Some day I will have a composing stick in my hand again, and I will
    cherish the moment. I figure it's about two years away.\r\n\r\n*sigh*\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-29 15:57:28'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "> <cite>Anybody want it?</cite> (will powers)\r\n\r\nI'm interested. Mildly.
    Please don't scrap it before calling me first. I'm over the river, about 45 minutes
    SE of La Crosse (an hour from Winona). Also interested in a cabinet, if you have
    one. 608-637-0550. Thanks.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-29 17:55:32'
- author:
    name: David Sudweeks
    picture: 112594
  body: "I just got into letterpress recently. Some type came with the press, a very
    complete set of 8pt ATF Copperplate; a 10pt Typewriter monospaced font; some awful
    12 or 14pt advertising font that I haven't bothered to ID; and a few characters
    of what I think I've identified as ATF Flash in about 16pt. Since then, I've purchased
    some new and used type on eBay, including Century Schoolbook Italic, and some
    Garamond figures to go along with\u2014ah yes; nothing. eBay's a mixed bag, and
    I don't recommend it unless your patience spans years and you are willing to occasionally
    be disappointed, but then again I'm talking to a roomfull of type designers.\r\nThe
    best thing to do for letterpress hobbyists is to make friends who have all the
    stuff and don't mind you dropping in and helping yourself. Relationships like
    these with schools or individuals are great and somewhat easy to develop."
  created: '2007-11-29 17:58:56'
- author:
    name: ktinkel
  body: "Cannot resist this thread.\r\n\r\nAlthough I haven\u2019t looked at it in
    years, I have a little Kelsey press and a few fonts of 8 to 12-point type, mostly
    Futura, maybe some Bodoni, couple of others.\r\n\r\nIn pre-DTP days (and up to
    the time that PageMaker learned how to hyphenate), I used the Kelsey mostly to
    set cutlines and photo credits for pasting up on mechanicals, usually shortly
    before the boards had to go to the printer. (Always forgot to order that small
    type when the job was being set.) \r\n\r\nI also have a large type storage rack
    made of oak (an inch thick, maybe more) with 36 or 48 California type trays (guessing:
    two columns of them, anyway). It stands about four feet high and has a slanted
    top on one side for reading proofs, and space on the other for setting type. It
    has been disassembled, but is in good shape. Not all the trays are good, though.\r\n\r\nI
    had been fascinated with type ever since I was a kid, so when I saw it, I bought
    the Kelsey and mastered the setting of small bits of type. Got some of the type
    from Kelsey in Meriden, CT (probably from Monotype output) and others by mail
    order from Quaker [something] in Pennsylvania.\r\n\r\nHave to agree with Will
    Powers, though \u2014 I have always been more interested in setting type and seeing
    at it in words on the page than as bits of metal. I\u2019m afraid I found hand-setting
    frustrating. Give me InDesign (or even good old PageMaker), and I\u2019m happy.\r\n\r\n--Kathleen"
  created: '2007-11-29 20:11:48'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "Although <a href=\"http://bnkr.it/\">my studio</a> is right above a print
    shop, they got rid of all their metal types long ago. \r\n\r\nI do have a bucketful
    of metal types which we got at another print shop nearby who was getting rid of
    them, earlier this year. We also wanted to practice a bit of hand-composition
    so we asked to the Tipoteca (an Italian museum of typography) if we could have
    a workshop just for our studio. We ended up there for two days, <a href=\"http://bnkr.it/misc/tipoteca/\">and
    took many pictures in the process</a>. Of course it was awesome, in fact I\u2019m
    going back there this saturday as they have a huge collection of wood type and
    a huge library where I can do more research."
  created: '2007-11-29 20:42:26'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Actually, I do enjoy hand setting type, but the purpose of that exercise
    is to arrive at something, not just lull in some nostalgic zen pleasure-trip whatever
    (what the hell is that when you have to get the work out?), and that can be accomplished
    with just as much care on the computer. The computer isn't just for speed and
    convenience. It offers far more flexibility and options. . . far more than were
    possible with metal type. It's just that most folks won't take the time, and hand
    setting metal type forces you to do just that. That craft practice is actually
    transferable. If you are willing.\r\n\r\nBut it was a no brainer switching from
    metal to digital type for letterpress printing. Operating costs drop dramatically
    and one can actually achieve the same results if not remarkably better; and actually
    make a living at it instead of being constantly in debt.\r\n\r\nNew metal type
    was, and is, quite, quite, more expensive than digital type and when you are sick
    of it you can't just delete it or ignore it, it is there, in a cabinet taking
    up six-square feet of room space, that you are paying rent on.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2007-11-30 06:08:51'
- author:
    name: sayerhs
    picture: 112341
  body: "There are trays and TRAYS of metal type in the printing studio in my college.
    All of it catching dust, or getting pinched by klepto-students \r\n\r\n*sigh*\r\n\r\nshreyas"
  created: '2007-11-30 12:56:08'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...how many of you own metal types?\"\r\nI do. and a few wooden ones too.\r\n\r\n\"Why
    do you still have them (apart from using them, if you also own a traditional printing
    machine)? \"\r\nI think this means \"why do you own them if you have digital composition
    and output.\"\r\nSo I can hold them, sort them and think about which ones I wouldn't
    use if I had a press.\r\n\r\n\"Where did you get them?\"\r\nFrom people who sell
    them. \r\n\r\n\"Which types are they?\"\r\nGood ones!\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-11-30 13:07:39'
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: "When i was an apprentice in the mid to late nineties, i was lucky enough
    to have been taught handsetting and letterpress as well, although the digital
    age was in full swing alreday back then. I still think that letterpress does have
    a high educational value, as it is the great way to understand how type works,
    no matter what medium you'll use in your career later.\r\nI have a 12pt Futura
    Eszett which was a present from a teacher back then, as well as some Linotype
    matrices, can't remember what typeface though. One day there were buckets full
    of these in our school as they were going to be thrown away, so i grabbed a handful.
    I also have one of those devices you hold in your hand while handsetting, i don't
    know the english term (anyone?), in german it's called a \u201EWinkelhaken\u201C.\r\nIt's
    not much of nostalgia for me, it's more about being aware of the roots of what
    one does every day. And before anyone chimes in, i have a hammer and a few chisels
    somewhere too, forged especially hard for use on granite."
  created: '2007-11-30 13:34:48'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: I'm setting and proofing metal type today. I luckily have access to an amazing
    letterpress shop (Paradise Press) with hundreds of metal fonts and ornaments.
    Keeping this resource alive is part of the reason I am helping to found the <a
    href="http://wnybookarts.org/">Western New York Book Arts Collaborative</a>. Without
    being too much of a pitch, I am happy to show anyone interested, this "mini working
    musuem" during <a href="http://typecon.com/">Typecon</a> next Summer.
  created: '2007-11-30 13:46:23'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Winkelhaken = Composing Stick (?)
  created: '2007-11-30 14:00:23'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I have one piece of type, a capital E that was a souvenir from a session
    at the Rare Book School in Charlottesville. It was hand-cast in front of me by
    Stan Nelson. In fact, it was still quite hot to the touch when it came into my
    hands. It still has the wedge-shaped metal chunk corresponding to the funnel-tube
    through which the molten typemetal was poured.\r\n\r\nI love it. It's getting
    kind of beat up now, though, and the printing face is black from felt-tip marker
    from my \"proofing\" experiments."
  created: '2007-11-30 14:54:04'
- author:
    name: pascal zoghbi
    picture: 111632
  body: "i have recently bought arabic and latin metal type.\r\nit was from an old
    printing press in the mountains of lebanon.\r\n\r\ni have now 9 arabic fonts and
    6 latin fonts.\r\nwhat is amazing is that the arabic mattress is two as big as
    the latin one.\r\n\r\nin the Latin i have Helvetica Italic in 48 pt\r\nand i have
    one serif type names Romine and another Sans named Europe.\r\nfor each i have
    12 pt and 18pt\r\n\r\nin the arabic. i have one arabic Naskh typeface in 8pt,
    12pt, 24pt Regular and Bold.\r\n\r\ni also got one Composing Stick.\r\n\r\nfor
    the Latin a made a closet for them based on the traditional closet shape for the
    drawers...\r\nand the arabic i am still thinking what is the best way to store
    or display them. or if i need to use them.\r\n\r\ni am thinking of a metallic
    shelves system to put the arabic huge mattresses in since the wood will not be
    strong enough the hold them\r\n\r\ni am now in the process of cleaning them from
    dust, so this is taking me hell of a time.\r\nwhenever i have some time off or
    need to take a brake from work, i clean some letters.\r\n\r\n\r\nmy next step
    is to get the printing press, but this will take more time for me to put aside
    the price for it...\r\n\r\nand then maybe open a small press for educational use
    where my students can come a typeset type. and also i can use i to make some prints
    with it...\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-30 19:53:38'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: I've now signed myself up for two weeks of formal bookbinding instruction
    with an old school letterpress printer in PA in the spring -- I can hardly wait
    to take down my metal type and do some printing.  ;-)
  created: '2007-12-01 03:38:25'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: 'Linda, that''s exciting news. '
  created: '2007-12-01 03:58:26'
- author:
    name: SparkyType
    picture: 113302
  body: "I have a set of wooden Cooper Black stamps bought from the Hamilton foundry
    in Two Rivers, Wisconsin. Sadly, It's never had an outing. One day though, one
    day!\r\n\r\n- David"
  created: '2007-12-01 23:02:57'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: I'm also looking forward to the side trip to NYC.  ;-)
  created: '2007-12-02 02:49:37'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Well, I guess this is the right discussion to announce your chance to get
    metall type character sets...\r\n\r\nFirst of all my answer:\r\nYes, I have some
    lead types. Approx. 30 empty cabinets, 12 tons of lead letters, several wood letter
    fonts. All together 378 articles at the moment :-)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.bleisetzer.de/cms/front_content.php?idcat=36\r\n\r\nNow
    the announcement:\r\nStarting next Sunday on 9th of December at 8:30 pm (german
    time), I'll offer 37 full character sets of lead letters like the following ones
    on Ebay Germany:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1_6500.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2_5180.jpg]\r\n\r\nAll
    auctions will end after one week on Sunday, 16th of December, at 8:30 pa (german
    time).\r\n\r\nThe reason for my announcement.\r\nI am a dealer for german lead
    letter articles.\r\nAnd I need money.\r\nBut(!): In this case the incoming money
    is not for me. Every Cent will be paid to an organisation for parents of cancer
    children in Duesseldorf/Germany:\r\nhttp://www.kinderkrebsklinik.de/\r\n\r\nWhy
    I do this?\r\nWell, life is taking and giving. I took, and now its time to give.
    I organize these kind of auctions since three years in December, after I got into
    close contact to these parents. I cannot explain it in english, sorry. But I have
    to do it. I see it as a duty.\r\n\r\nNow the rules:\r\nWho's interested to place
    a bid (auctions will start at Euro 9.90) should send me his/her Ebay name, so
    I can allow him/her to place bids. And he/she should take care to have an access
    to my Ebay account at Ebay Germany:\r\nhttp://search.ebay.de/_W0QQfgtpZ1QQfrppZ200QQsassZbleisetzer\r\n\r\nMh?
    If this posting is a commercial ad?\r\nNo, its just a social engagement, a charity
    project, alright?\r\n\r\nBy the way... my opinion is, that every professional
    working in the pre-press industry should own some lead letters. How will you know
    where you go if you do not know where you are coming from?\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-02 14:22:36'
- author:
    name: achipmunk
  body: "I don\u2019t have metal type, but I do own several plastic types."
  created: '2007-12-02 17:50:52'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: David, there are a bunch of Turkish metal fonts to rescue/order in Bilkent
    University (Ankara) if you are interested, you can ask there.
  created: '2007-12-02 19:33:34'
- author:
    name: nycla3
    picture: 113396
  body: "I have a full set of Garamond CAPS + numbers + a composing stick. They are
    the only remnants of the hot-metal Linotype shop my father owned in NYC. Cleaned
    the Linotype machines, tripped the Vandercook, set typositor, ran jobs and slugs
    around the city to other trade shops during summers.\r\n\r\nOh, and super-heated
    quarters on the rim of the lead pot and threw them from the fourth floor and waited
    for unsuspecting pedestrians to pick them up...learned that from the union guys...;-)"
  created: '2007-12-03 02:29:40'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Now it started...\r\nMay be the shipping costs are too expensive into foreign
    countries (seen from Germany).\xB4\r\n\r\nBut who's interested in rare original
    character sets of lead letters:\r\nhttp://search.ebay.de/_W0QQfgtpZ1QQfrppZ200QQsassZbleisetzer\r\n\r\nI
    hope my posting does not disturb you...\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-09 20:23:11'
- author:
    name: John vanDemer
  body: The thing that is disturbing is that these are sets of only one of each character,
    making them useless to print with, unless of course you only print Pangrams.
  created: '2007-12-09 22:32:12'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Yes, John, of course you are right.\r\nThese character sets were used to
    print examples for our collection, shown here:\r\nhttp://www.bleisetzer.de/cms/front_content.php?idcat=41\r\n\r\nIn
    our online magazine we offer approx. 300 full-filled leadtype fonts:\r\nhttp://www.bleisetzer.de/cms/front_content.php?idcat=36\r\n\r\nThe
    character sets are only meant as a choice of a nice present for typophile people...\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-10 08:48:08'
date: '2007-11-28 08:40:07'
node_type: forum
title: How many of you own metal types?

---
