---
author:
  name: Jeremy Dooley
  picture: 110877
body: "This is primarily geared to independent foundries, especially those that use
  flash for previewing.\r\n\r\nI recently found a pirated archive of my work. I downloaded
  it to examine it and in the course of my investigation found most of the files had
  been extracted from my flash previews on my website. The extracted files don't contain
  the full character set or kerning.\r\n\r\n[Program used removed]\r\n\r\nI suppose
  I will have to re-evaluate the way I provide previews.\r\n\r\n[Moderator comment:
  The Posting of how to pirate fonts is not a function of Typophile]\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "This is the same situation for pdf, but a few more clicks.\r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\"
    target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2007-11-29 13:59:08'
- author:
    name: all about seb
    picture: 110631
  body: "Jeremy,\r\n\r\nThis is of course a valid concern and that's why certain foundries
    do not allow font embedding in Flash, but it's not like you (or someone is a similar
    scenario) would actually loose revenue. My point is that no professional designer
    would ever resort to these pirate tactics... or maybe i am just blue-eyed - so
    if an amateur type aficionado steals your type, copies it from a friend etc. no
    sales are lost - he wouldn't buy any fonts to begin with. But please correct me
    if i am wrong.\r\n\r\nI hope i don't step on any toes by saying this...\r\n\r\nSeb\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-29 14:03:25'
- author:
    name: folengo
    picture: 112111
  body: "you may consider lettersetter.net\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-29 14:09:51'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "This was discussed here before.\r\nI would recommend to remove the link to
    this software!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-29 14:10:25'
- author:
    name: Jeremy Dooley
    picture: 110877
  body: "Seb,\r\n\r\nYou are probably correct, and in the past when its been one or
    two families posted to some website in Siberia, I just let it slide and pulled
    out the brown paper bag. But it's not your work they are stealing.\r\n\r\nOf course,
    I don't to see any justification of this act, but your reasoning is sound.\r\n\r\nThere's
    definately an emotional component that overrides any logical analysis of the situation.\r\n\r\nJeremy
    Dooley\r\nwww.insignedesign.com"
  created: '2007-11-29 14:18:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "If it makes anybody feel better, the pirate versions of a lot of fonts going
    around out there lately are next to worthless. There\u2019s a programmer promoting
    a new file compression software by distributing complete foundry archives of ripped
    fonts and batch converting them into Opentype via Fontlab. The catch is that he
    doesn\u2019t know what he\u2019s doing and the fonts are often unusable for anything
    but (bad) student work, even then the fonts often require manual fixes before
    they can be used. "
  created: '2007-11-29 14:20:56'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I suppose I will have to re-evaluate the way I provide previews.\"\r\n\r\nWhy?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-30 14:38:08'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Darrel has a point. It\u2019s not like people using the really crappy ripped
    font collections buy fonts anyway."
  created: '2007-11-30 14:55:56'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'That might be true James, but does that make it ok? The fact still remains
    that someone''s work is being exploited in a way which they don''t approve. '
  created: '2007-11-30 16:26:36'
- author:
    name: ndmike
    picture: 109528
  body: "Tiffany,\r\n\r\nWhile I agree wholeheartedly with your ethics, the practical
    concerns boil down to either coming to terms with this perceived violation of
    your property and chalking such theft or \"shrinkage\" as a cost of doing business,
    or inconveniencing your potential paying customers by crippling online previews
    so that font pirates won't be able to produce a crappy imitations of your font.
    Since the pirates aren't going to pay anyway, aren't you potentially reducing
    the number of honest sales by offering less information to would-be buyers?\r\n\r\n--m"
  created: '2007-11-30 17:14:21'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "From a pragmatic standpoint, whether or not it\u2019s right is irrelevant.
    If having a Flash type preview increases sales, and if people who don\u2019t pay
    for fonts are going to use some pirate font regardless, one might as well put
    indignation aside and focus on at least making as much money as possible from
    paying customers."
  created: '2007-11-30 17:16:10'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I was only commenting on James' comment. It seems to me that it is easy for
    those of us who do not create fonts for a living to wonder how the foundries can
    possibly  not offer good previews for those of us who do license fonts. But then
    those same foundries who do offer the best kinds of previews find themselves on
    the business end of a piracy problem. It isn't our place to say how the foundries
    should offer previews, it is just our place to say what is most useful and for
    them to choose. No? \r\n"
  created: '2007-11-30 17:18:56'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I\u2019m not telling anybody how to do business, just point out that getting
    ripped off is pretty much inevitable in creative fields, and sometimes it\u2019s
    probably better to just let it go and focus on the people who appreciate design
    enough to pay for it."
  created: '2007-11-30 17:35:23'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'That is probably true, James. '
  created: '2007-11-30 18:44:26'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"That might be true James, but does that make it ok?\"\r\n\r\nProbably not.\r\n\r\nBut
    DRM in general is a wasted effort. It hurts the honest customer, burdens the vendor,
    and in the end doesn't really stop the copying of digital media by those that
    really want to copy it anyways.\r\n\r\nIt's an exercise in futility.\r\n\r\nPut
    that effort into designing more typefaces instead.\r\n\r\n(BTW, nice stuff, Carni!)\r\n\r\n\"It
    isn\u2019t our place to say how the foundries should offer previews\"\r\n\r\nWell,
    actually it is. We're the customer. Foundries don't have to listen, of course.\r\n\r\nDRM
    bit me again this week. I bought some songs from iTunes to put on my new iPod.
    Only half would play on my iPod. \r\n\r\nSpent a total of 4 hours with Apple trying
    to troubleshoot this.\r\n\r\nEnd result? I said screw it, stripped the DRM out
    and did it my way. As such, Apple lost an iTunes customer. "
  created: '2007-11-30 20:39:55'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "DRM was not part of this discussion.\r\n\r\n<em>point out that getting ripped
    off is pretty much inevitable in creative fields</em>\r\nI could think of some
    rather unpleasant analogies, but the bottom line is \"inevitable\" is not acceptable.\r\nIf
    a previewer become a font dispenser, then it is the foundry's prerogative to turn
    off the tap. ATF and metal foundries didn't have online previewers, they had specimen
    books. We have cultivated good customer relationships where a regular customer
    can try out fonts upon request. We try to listen to our customers. Most people
    who offer the loudest criticisms are rarely customers, but people who feel a sense
    of righteousness about how they think things should be. It's easy to say \"let
    it go\" but if a repeated indignation and crime is perpetrated upon you, you don't
    stand there and say \"thank you sir may I have another\"\r\n\r\nJames\r\nwhen
    you say <em>the pirate versions of a lot of fonts going around out there lately</em>,
    you seem to have a pretty good knowledge of the various levels of piracy and <em>even
    then the fonts often require manual fixes before they can be used</em> an implied
    first hand experience in using pirated fonts. I find it disheartening that even
    on this forum where those who chat daily with the makers of fonts can in the next
    breath dismiss the value of the craft by posting download links. It's like when
    a fan of a band asks the band to sign a bootleg and burns copies of their music
    for all of their friends, is it flattering or insulting? A little of both no doubt.
    The mainstreaming of \"sharing\" culture will make it less and less inviting for
    anyone to want to go into a \"creative\" business. In conclusion...whatever.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-30 21:28:07'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>If a previewer become a font dispenser, then it is the foundry\u2019s
    prerogative to turn off the tap.</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m not arguing otherwise.
    I only pointed out that if the foundries find that the previews generate extra
    business, it might be worth overlooking piracy. This isn\u2019t a radical new
    idea\u2014the software and fashion industries have been playing these kinds of
    games for ages.\r\n\r\nAs for my own familiarity with the seedier side of the
    internet, I don\u2019t claim to be a saint, and I\u2019m won\u2019t insult you
    by offering excuses for my idealogical promiscuities. "
  created: '2007-11-30 21:58:40'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "Fair enough. I appreciate the candor.\r\n I would think piracy could be overlooked
    if the balance of extra business outweighed the prominence a font would find throughout
    various \"sharing\" sites and the ease of finding a font once it is propagated.
    Sadly I think the scales are tipped in the favor of piracy reducing more sales
    than little or no pdf/flash specimens would reduce sales. I don't have statistical
    evidence to back this up, but once a font is released, it tends to sell better
    when it has not been \"shared\" vs. font sales that have had piracy right after
    release. Contrary to a common rationalization, the \"non consensual trial version\"
    encouraging sales is a rarity. On the upside (with some trepidation) finding pirated
    fonts used in major ad campaigns can be a windfall if pursued. That brings up
    litigation as a revenue source for foundries as a big topic that could be discussed.
    Not online however :^)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-30 22:18:15'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"DRM was not part of this discussion\"\r\n\r\nIt's quite related, as the
    original app likely 'reverse engineered' the flash file to grab the data. DRM
    is usually touted as the 'fix'.\r\n\r\n\"but the bottom line is \u201Cinevitable\u201D
    is not acceptable.\"\r\n\r\nIs anyone disagreeing with that?\r\n\r\n\"Most people
    who offer the loudest criticisms are rarely customers\"\r\n\r\nWhy is that? ;o)\r\n\r\n\"implied
    first hand experience in using pirated fonts\"\r\n\r\nThat's a rather accusatory
    assumption, ain't it?\r\n\r\nI think we also abuse the term 'pirated' WAY too
    much these days. \r\n\r\nThe bottom line, IMHO, is that no, folks should not be
    taking your work for free if you intend people to purchase it. You can either
    a) make it hard for everyone, including your paying customer to use your product
    or b) just focus on your paying customers and not worry about some kid in Russia.\r\n\r\nIt's
    really up to each foundry, and there's no 'right' answer necessarily. \r\n\r\n\"It\u2019s
    like when a fan of a band asks the band to sign a bootleg and burns copies of
    their music for all of their friends, is it flattering or insulting?\"\r\n\r\nIt
    depends on the band. Does a bootleg increase or decrease the bands market exposure
    and product sales?\r\n\r\n\"The mainstreaming of \u201Csharing\u201D culture will
    make it less and less inviting for anyone to want to go into a \u201Ccreative\u201D
    business.\"\r\n\r\n\"sharing\" has been around forever. This is nothing new. And
    yet, the creative businesses are still chugging along just fine...\r\n\r\n\"I
    don\u2019t have statistical evidence to back this up\"\r\n\r\nAnd that is really
    the reason these debates still exist. No one does.\r\n\r\nDoes sharing an MP3
    directly deny the RIAA income? Or does it directly increase it? It's next to impossible
    to accurately measure this and in a lot of cases, it's probably a wash. Just the
    times-a-changin.\r\n\r\nI'm just speaking for myself, but I'm through with DRMed
    music. It's a huge pain. I am more than willing to pay for music and will gladly
    do so when it's DRM free (thank goodness for eMusic and Amazon!)\r\n\r\nAs for
    fonts, as a designer, I make a living doing commercial work, so will always pay
    for fonts...provided I can use them without jumping through hoops (in which case
    I just won't use that font and go on to the next foundry). And that's just my
    stance...other customers will differ, of course."
  created: '2007-11-30 22:30:18'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "A more tangible example:\r\n\r\nThe last font I purchased was about a month
    ago for a client project. The client wanted a hand drawn typeface. \r\n\r\nI went
    off to Veer and used the flash tool to set a bunch of examples of handwritten
    typefaces they had. Showed the client, and then we purchased the one they picked.\r\n\r\nHad
    there not been that preview, those typefaces wouldn't have been in contention.\r\n\r\nNow,
    granted, I could have (technically, but not legally/ethically) just used the screen
    shot and have been done with it without any license at all. I'm sure that happens
    too. The issue is how many do the latter vs. the former. I, of course, don't know.
    Not sure anyone does."
  created: '2007-11-30 22:37:38'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Sadly I think the scales are tipped in the favor of piracy reducing
    more sales than little or no pdf/flash specimens would reduce sales.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    don\u2019t think that piracy via Flash rips is the kind of piracy that foundries
    need to worry about. If foundries want to make a meaningful dent in piracy, making
    <em>very</em> low cost fonts easily available to design students and schools is
    the only way to go. Too many students\u2014at least here in the states\u2014can\u2019t
    even afford textbooks after they\u2019re done paying tuition and room and board,
    much less software and fonts. I can tell you firsthand that piracy is taught as
    a necessary evil in some design programs. And when a young designer gets out of
    school, tens-of-thousands of dollars in debt, and finds that a good job at a good
    firm that pays less than he or she could make working in retail management, you
    can bet those old pirate fonts are going into the freelance jobs that keep the
    student loan companies happy. \r\n\r\nThis is why I keep bringing up ideas about
    very low-cost font licensing for students. For some of them, the difference between
    using a free font or using a pirated font is the difference between getting a
    scholarship or not going back to school next fall. Right now tuition is skyrocking,
    the value of the dollar is dropping like a rock, easy credit is fading, federal
    and local student aid is getting slashed, and type vendors need to get proactive.
    Because if you think font piracy is bad now, just wait until a generation of designers
    who were taught to pirate fonts is running the design industry."
  created: '2007-11-30 23:59:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Too many students\u2014at least here in the states\u2014can\u2019t even
    afford textbooks after they\u2019re done paying tuition and room and board, much
    less software and fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps those charging such exorbitant prices
    for tuition, board and lodging, not to mention all those other things design students
    need like iPhones, iPods, iMacs etc., should lower their prices, so the poor dears
    can afford the occasional $14.95 for font.\r\n\r\nOh sorry, those things can't
    be pirated, so I guess it's OK for students to pay the full ticket for them."
  created: '2007-12-01 00:53:59'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Perhaps those charging such exorbitant prices for tuition, board and
    lodging\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nRight now my school is having trouble finding money
    to repair the roof on its main building.\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026not to mention all
    those other things design students need like iPhones, iPods, iMacs\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nTell
    that to my buddy who lugs around a full-sized keyboard he scrounged up when the
    keyboard on his laptop died.\r\n\r\n<cite>Oh sorry, those things can\u2019t be
    pirated, so I guess it\u2019s OK for students to pay the full ticket for them.</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    not making excuses for font piracy. I am stating that I think that it starts early,
    and that the font industry would be a let better reaching out to young designers\u2014especially
    students\u2014than worrying about people ripping fonts off of type preview systems."
  created: '2007-12-01 01:04:28'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I am extremely happy to announce that Fontlab Ltd. is very close to releasing
    Photofont WebReady, a product that will allow users to convert outline fonts not
    only to Flash fonts for use with sIFR and similar solutions (that are employed
    for Flash testdrive capabilities) -- but also into something new, what we call
    \"embedded web photofonts\". Basically, Photofont WebReady will convert an outline
    font into a bitmap font of a chosen size and then put this bitmap font inside
    of a Flash file that will include ActionScript that will make this bitmap font
    work as if it was regular Flash text. \r\n\r\nNext week, we will publish a new
    version of the photofont.com website that will demostrate the technology in use.
    We hope that some folks who are afraid that fonts can be extracted from Flash
    files may consider switching to embedded web photofonts for preview purposes.
    \r\n\r\nI'd like to add that -- unlike some other solutions on the market -- Photofont
    WebReady will respect the embedding bits in OpenType and TrueType fonts, and will
    not allow a user to convert a font into an outline Flash font if the embedding
    bits don't allow that. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam Twardoch\r\nFontlab Ltd.\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-01 04:19:05'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Photofont WebReady will convert an outline font into a bitmap font of a
    chosen size and then put this bitmap font inside of a Flash file that will include
    ActionScript that will make this bitmap font work as if it was regular Flash text.\"\r\n\r\nHow
    accessible and machine-readable is that solution?"
  created: '2007-12-01 07:04:07'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Photofont WebReady is based on <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scalable_Inman_Flash_Replacement\">sIFR</a>
    (but there is lots of additional development that went into it). The output is
    completely searchable, search-engine-friendly text with a custom typeface. It
    uses a combination of browser-side standard techniques (CSS, JavaScript) with
    dynamically inserted Flash files (SWF with ActionScript). On modern browsers,
    you get custom-formatted text rendered using Flash, which remains searchable and
    copy-pasteable (just like the heading on this very forum, that today, for a change,
    seems to be using Comic Sans). Google or text browsers that don't support Flash
    get the pure unprocessed text. \r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2007-12-01 08:20:46'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>I can tell you firsthand that piracy is taught as a necessary evil in
    some design programs.</em>\r\n\r\nAre you saying that students are actually taught
    or instructed to steal fonts and/or other software? And to what end? So they can
    pass their exams and obtain qualification? If so,&nbsp; w h o &nbsp;is instructing
    them to steal? It sounds like you are saying lecturers or school admins are telling
    students it is neccessary, and okay, to steal. If that is the case, those staff
    are undermining the viability of commerce itself, which supports the universities
    by generating wealth and tax revenue. Without that tax revenue your university
    would not exist.\r\n\r\n<em>...the difference between using a free font or using
    a pirated font is the difference between getting a scholarship or not going back
    to school next fall.</em>\r\n\r\nIf that is true then the universities are going
    about the task of education in a most unrealistic manner. There must be something
    seriously amiss, or just plain&nbsp; w r o n g&nbsp;with scholarship requirements
    if students fail to attain qualification solely because they cannot afford shitty
    trendy esoteric fonts. Either that, or the lecturers have lost touch with the
    real world and desperately need to spend some time working as commercial designers.
    Get a grip. The other side to that coin is---are design students and universities
    realistic about the cost of attaining a degree? Why are design students enrolled
    in courses they cannot afford to complete, and is that a realistic situation?\r\n\r\n<em>If
    foundries want to make a meaningful dent in piracy, making very low cost fonts
    easily available to design students and schools is the only way to go.</em>\r\n\r\nAre
    you sure that's the &nbsp;o n l y&nbsp; way? You make it sound so final. The problem
    with selling fonts to students at very low cost is Where do you draw the line?
    Should students be permitted to continue using those fonts in a commercial practice
    when they become professional designers? It could turn out to be a recipie for
    painless entry into high quality font ownership. Save thousands on the cost of
    acquiring all the fonts you need to run a commercial design practice by getting
    them cheap when at uni.\r\n\r\n<em>Because if you think font piracy is bad now,
    just wait until a generation of designers who were taught to pirate fonts is running
    the design industry.</em>\r\n\r\nHa-ha, bloody ha. Commerce and industry folds
    in on itself and ceases to function when run by people of compromised morality.
    It will never happen, because financiers will not appoint petty criminals to run
    the design industry. The people with the money, James, are the people who pull
    the strings in business. Once again, &nbsp;w h o&nbsp; is &nbsp;t e a c h i n
    g&nbsp; students to pirate fonts?\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-01 17:04:39'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I\u2019m going to drop out of this discussion as I don\u2019t feel it\u2019s
    appropriate to continue in a public forum. On the off-chance anyone really cares,
    bring up in Buffalo and I\u2019ll buy you a pint."
  created: '2007-12-01 17:27:44'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Google or text browsers that don\u2019t support Flash get the pure unprocessed
    text.\"\r\n\r\nNice.\r\n\r\n\"Commerce and industry folds in on itself and ceases
    to function when run by people of compromised morality.\"\r\n\r\nThat's funny.
    ;o)"
  created: '2007-12-01 18:34:04'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Not that funny\u2026 :)\r\n\r\naluminum - you wrote this:\r\nDoes sharing
    an MP3 directly deny the RIAA income? Or does it directly increase it? It\u2019s
    next to impossible to accurately measure this and in a lot of cases, it\u2019s
    probably a wash.\r\n\r\nAsk the record companies if it's a wash. I'm not really
    for them or against them, but all the royalties I have received for songwriting
    or performance on records came from them. I don't want people to \"share\" my
    songs, I want them to buy them. Record companies are dying fast. You might all
    cheer about this but don't forget that Prince didn't make money for 5 albums,
    all he had was the belief (and financial support) of a record company that he
    had talent.\r\n\r\nIf you're The Grateful Dead and want to encourage taping and
    trading live shows, great. But it should be a choice.\r\n\r\nRadiohead just released
    their latest album on their own and were in a position to do something revolutionary:
    they offered it up for download and told their fans they could pay whatever they
    thought was fair for it, including nothing. What happened? The vast majority downloaded
    it for free. I am not sure exactly what that means except they probably won't
    try it again.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-12-02 01:11:41'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "James,\r\nI offer my apologies if it seems I am jumping down your throat,
    which I am doing in way. I have strong feelings about morality and ethics, and
    when the topic of piracy comes up I sometimes get quite preachy.\r\n\r\nIf I came
    across angry, don't let it freak you out man. I just get bombastic at times, when
    the moment takes me. I like you and when I come over there I would love to buy
    you a pint. I do care about this.\r\n\r\nYes, you do need to be careful what you
    say in a public forum. Some aspects of human behaviour are best discussed privately.\r\n\r\nI'm
    glad you have strong feelings about this kind of thing too, and you're gutsy;
    in your position I can understand where you're coming from. Being a student clearly
    is not easy in this day and age. The much-vaunted digital \"media revolution\"
    has given the shitty end of the stick to students. That's bad and I wish I could
    do more to alleviate the situation.\r\n\r\nSo far I've made a few useful display
    fonts available free of charge. One day I will make a nice useful text font and
    license it free for personal use. I've got a draft already which I can post in
    the critique forum for scrutiny, if you would like to participate I am more than
    happy to have you onboard. To make it happen faster we could make it an open source
    project and invite other type designers to help finish it with a bold, italic
    etc. What say?\r\n\r\nBest regards,\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-02 02:23:05'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I offer my apologies if it seems I am jumping down your throat, which
    I am doing in way.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s what the internet is for!\r\n\r\n<cite>The
    much-vaunted digital \u201Cmedia revolution\u201D has given the shitty end of
    the stick to students.</cite>\r\n\r\nActually, it\u2019s made our lives a lot
    easier. Have you ever seen the card catalogs at the Library of Congress? \r\n\r\nWhat
    sucks for students is a society that puts people into a position where a college
    degree becomes almost essential for many careers, but expects them to screw themselves
    over financially to do so. People can spit on the memories of the robber barons
    all they want, at least they built a lot of classrooms and libraries. I\u2019m
    getting through school largely thanks to loans at interest rates that would get
    a banker executed for usury in some nations. And I\u2019m one of the lucky ones!\r\n\r\n<cite>To
    make it happen faster we could make it an open source project and invite other
    type designers to help finish it with a bold, italic etc. What say?</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    actually hoping to do that with my thesis work\u2014but I have to design the basics
    and graduate first."
  created: '2007-12-02 03:11:57'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>That\u2019s what the internet is for!</em>\r\n\r\nI wish it wasn't that
    way and I never set out to hurt other people online. Hubris is bad and we're better
    off trying to avoid it.\r\n\r\n<em>Have you ever seen the card catalogs at the
    Library of Congress?</em>\r\n\r\nNot at the Library of Congress but we have a
    great public library here in Melbourne with card catalogs.\r\n\r\n<em>What sucks
    for students is a society that puts people into a position where a college degree
    becomes almost essential for many careers, but expects them to screw themselves
    over financially to do so.</em>\r\n\r\nTrue, but my main point is---expecting
    students to be equipped with all of the goodies wage-earning designers take for
    granted is unrealistic and unfair, and look at the damage it's causing to the
    type industry.\r\n\r\n<em>People can spit on the memories of the robber barons
    all they want, at least they built a lot of classrooms and libraries.</em>\r\n\r\nAt
    a terrible cost in human lives and damage to the biosphere.\r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019m
    actually hoping to do that with my thesis work\u2014but I have to design the basics
    and graduate first.</em>\r\n\r\nGood. This is good.\r\n\r\nTake care.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-02 04:58:16'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Not that funny\u2026 :)\"\r\n\r\nEthics and capitalism aren't as directly
    related as we'd like them to be. ;o)\r\n\r\n\"Ask the record companies if it\u2019s
    a wash.\"\r\n\r\nWhy? They have an answer, but it's not based on any tangible
    evidence. That was my point.\r\n\r\n\"I don\u2019t want people to \u201Cshare\u201D
    my songs, I want them to buy them.\"\r\n\r\nThe question you need to figure out
    is if letting people listen your music for free will increase or decrease your
    exposure and sales. \r\n\r\nI don't know.\r\n\r\n\"But it should be a choice.\"\r\n\r\nSure.
    No argument there.\r\n\r\n\"What happened? The vast majority downloaded it for
    free. I am not sure exactly what that means except they probably won\u2019t try
    it again.\"\r\n\r\nI dunno. 6 million dollars sounds worthy of doing it again.\r\n\r\nBut
    still, it's the same gap in logic. Just because half downloaded for free does
    not mean they lost half of their sales. \r\n\r\nA bunch of 14 year olds designing
    CD covers for their mix CDs using a font from a Russian download site aren't necessarily
    a lost sale to the font foundry. This is not excusing them from doing it, just
    that, IMHO, it doesn't make a lot of sense for a font foundry to worry about that
    particular demographic at the expense of their typical paying customer."
  created: '2007-12-03 14:58:15'
- author:
    name: rob keller
    picture: 109886
  body: "<cite>\u201CWhat happened? The vast majority downloaded it for free. I am
    not sure exactly what that means except they probably won\u2019t try it again.\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>I
    dunno. 6 million dollars sounds worthy of doing it again.</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\nDon't
    forget that Radiohead is no longer attached to a record label, so all the money
    should essentially go directly to them.\r\nThis model would be much different
    if they were only getting a few cents per album.\r\n\r\n(btw, I read at one time
    that it was roughly 60% that took it for free)"
  created: '2007-12-03 15:39:15'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "<em>The question you need to figure out is if letting people listen your
    music for free will increase or decrease your exposure and sales.</em> \r\nExposure,
    of course. Sales, unlikely if they took the first ones for free, the sense of
    \"entitlement\" and ease of download  would be the already established pattern.
    2/3 of the radiohead \"fans\" didn't even pay 1\xA2. That was an amazing experiment
    and in the end likely a worthwhile one. The mindset for most is that all digital
    IP can and should be free. The harsh reality comes back when they want to make
    a living with their own IP and find all of their peers hold no value for their
    music, fonts or graphic design.\r\n\r\nIf school instructors are teaching piracy
    as professional practice, there is a serious problem that will take a major shift
    to overcome. I went through design school during the transition from analog to
    digital. No one complained (well, everyone complains) about having to buy press-type
    at the expense of beer money (both were somehow managed) where now buying fonts
    is seen as a luxury as opposed to the \"art supply\" that it is (with a shelf
    life of...their career)."
  created: '2007-12-03 18:34:13'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Great - so Radiohead fans got what they wanted - most for free. Everyone
    in the music business knows that the money is no longer in CD sales - it's in
    appearances and merchandise, etc\u2026 Why is that? Because of downloading. The
    only catalogue that is making money at EMI/Capitol is reissues. So much for new
    artists.\r\n\r\nI recently had a song released by a major band and I made some
    decent money. Why? Because the record label is legally required to send me royalties
    ON THE COPIES THEY SELL. Did I need the extra exposure of downloaded versions
    of that song? Not at all - the artists who recorded it sell in the millions every
    time out.\r\n\r\nFor all you who are cheering downloading bringing on the demise
    of the major labels, consider the new business model. Clear Channel has purchased
    Madonna's entire career for the next five years. Concerts, merchandise, records,
    etc\u2026\r\n\r\nLet's see - they own a plethora of radio stations in America
    - I wonder what they're going to play on those stations?\r\n\r\nThere are consequences
    all down the line when artists are devalued.\r\n\r\npbc\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-03 20:53:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: If a foundry does a font promotion, by giving away a font free for a limited
    time, or by issuing a font on a collection CD (eg with Indie Fonts), then that
    font is more likely to end up on a pirate site.
  created: '2007-12-03 21:07:50'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "<em>If a foundry does a font promotion, by giving away a font free for a
    limited time, or by issuing a font on a collection CD (eg with Indie Fonts), then
    that font is more likely to end up on a pirate site.</em>\r\n\r\nThat sounds like
    a fact. Is it? ...more likely to end up on a pirate site than what? I have not
    seen this as a proven fact even though it would seem to be the case."
  created: '2007-12-03 22:16:18'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"2/3 of the radiohead \u201Cfans\u201D didn\u2019t even pay 1\xA2.\"\r\n\r\n%
    figures are pointless.\r\n\r\nThe key is how many purchased the songs when they
    could pick the price vs. how many purchased the songs when the band picked the
    price vs. how many downloaded the song on their own (and how many of those wouldn't
    have paid anyways)?\r\n\r\nAgain, a really hard, if not impossible question to
    answer.\r\n\r\n\"The mindset for most is that all digital IP can and should be
    free.\"\r\n\r\nI'd say the success of iTMS, eMusic and Amazon't MP3 sales severely
    dampens the 'most' argument.\r\n\r\n\"If school instructors are teaching piracy
    as professional practice, there is a serious problem\"\r\n\r\nDefinitely.\r\n\r\n\"Did
    I need the extra exposure of downloaded versions of that song? Not at all - the
    artists who recorded it sell in the millions every time out.\"\r\n\r\nIndeed...the
    bands that protest the loudest tend to be the ones that benefit most from the
    current system. Which is understandable. Band like Metallica thrive off of the
    current music label system.\r\n\r\nBut your songs already sells millions. Do you
    think 'sharing' of those songs really has hurt those sales? Or perhaps you've
    already hit the saturation mark. As a teen, we'd swap CDs by copying them to tape
    for each other. This was the norm. Did we cost the bands sales? No. We were broke.
    I think there's a belief (or perhaps a wish) that if there was only some way to
    technically prevent copying (which there isn't) all of these 'copies' would immediately
    translate into sales. Some would. Many wouldn't. \r\n\r\n\"There are consequences
    all down the line when artists are devalued.\"\r\n\r\nI think Madonna and Metallica
    are overvalued to begin with. BTW, this is not a 'new' model. This is how the
    industry has been working since the 50s. Control the market, and feed the masses
    a select menu of easily marketable consumables. The market hates diversity.  \r\n\r\n\"If
    a foundry does a font promotion, by giving away a font free for a limited time,
    or by issuing a font on a collection CD (eg with Indie Fonts), then that font
    is more likely to end up on a pirate site.\"\r\n\r\nIs that bad? Good? Neither?\r\n\r\nMaybe
    I'm naive...do a huge number of professional designers get fonts from Russian
    pirate sites? "
  created: '2007-12-03 22:41:24'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: I think it's time for a typophile poll
  created: '2007-12-03 22:58:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>That sounds like a fact. Is it?</em>\r\n\r\nIt's anecdotal, based on
    noticing which of my fonts I've come across on pirate sites.\r\nIt certainly seems
    logical.\r\nIt might even be naive behaviour, in that someone thinks \"hey this
    is free, must be shareware\"; or self-serving myopia, when greed causes one to
    not notice, or to ignore, inconvenient facts. \r\n\r\n<em>Maybe I\u2019m naive...do
    a huge number of professional designers get fonts from Russian pirate sites?</em>\r\n\r\nThey're
    more likely to get them on CDs from friends, or, as freelancers, download them
    from their employer's computer.\r\nNonetheless, as it's a question of morality,
    the fight for intellectual property rights, focused on pirate sites, is symbolically
    important as a socially responsible, visible condemnation of bad behaviour--as
    much as for reducing the number of pirated fonts in the \"sharing\" subculture.\r\n\r\nReal
    designers don't pirate fonts."
  created: '2007-12-03 23:26:35'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Nonetheless, as it\u2019s a question of morality, the fight for intellectual
    property rights, focused on pirate sites, is symbolically important as a socially
    responsible\"\r\n\r\nMany that run file sharing sites (Which is DIFFERENT than
    'pirate' sites, IMHO) would actually aruge the same: it's \"is symbolically important
    as a socially responsible\". ;o)\r\n\r\nPersonally, I think the DMCA is taking
    things too far in one direction and the Pirate Bay is taking things too far in
    the other. Seems like the answer is likely somewhere in the middle there.\r\n\r\n\"Real
    designers don\u2019t pirate fonts.\"\r\n\r\nExactly! ;o)"
  created: '2007-12-04 01:23:09'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: I used to have fonts that had somehow accumulated over the years, but have
    since destroyed them and bought replacements. In the early 90's not many people
    I knew considered fonts as something you should buy for yourself, and even pre-press
    companies gave fonts away to their clients for free. Since then both legislation
    and public awareness have changed, but there are still a lot of people who are
    willing to share fonts and/or who are ignorant of the legal issues. Perhaps people
    should be made more aware of what's ok and what's not, but I'm afraid a lot of
    people just don't care.
  created: '2007-12-04 11:40:00'
- author:
    name: John vanDemer
  body: "I hope this is not too presumptuous to offer<a href=\"http://www.quibblo.com/quiz/mTpSFr/Typophile-Font-Poll-Which-is-most-true-for-you-all-answers-anonymous\">
    this poll</a>, but it would be interesting to see what Typophile users answers
    are.\r\nThis is a non scientific poll, but may offer insight into the conjecture
    of the preceding conversations. The terms \"Pirate, sharing orquestionable\" all
    refer to fonts not obtained in accordance with the font's EULA."
  created: '2007-12-04 21:31:21'
date: '2007-11-29 13:53:47'
title: Font Piracy Method.

---
