---
author:
  name: loremipsum
body: "1. Do you think people/children should get basic information about typography
  in the context of mandatory education?\r\n2. Would this improve the overall taste
  and literacy of general public?\r\n3. How would you schedule such education?\r\n4.
  Are there countries that actually made some steps in this area?\r\n\r\nSlightly
  unrelated, but:\r\nwhat you think, will there ever be something like \"personal
  graphic identity\", resembling corporate identity?\r\nOr, rephrased, could typography
  someday become a part of person's style (resembling one's preferences in cars, clothing
  brands etc.). The answer is probably no, but could you at least imagine such scenario?\r\n\r\nThanks
  in advance for any comments."
comments:
- author:
    name: Chasography
    picture: 113668
  body: "I think it should be at LEAST offend as an elective, like keyboarding...
    or even as a secondary class to keyboard like keyboard 101, keyboarding 110: Typographic
    Basics. Have more on the chidrens computers than microsof word like Indesign or
    Illustrator.\r\n\r\nChase Langdon"
  created: '2007-11-29 19:36:12'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "1. No. General education\u2014at least here in the states\u2014is muddled
    up enough trying to cram in the interests of too many people as it is. Trying
    to teach everyone something as subtle and esoteric as typography would just leave
    them more confused than they already are. \r\n\r\n2. Mandatory music classes education
    hasn\u2019t done anything to change the public taste for bad music, so I see no
    reason to assume that it would work with type. \r\n\r\nCarefully developed personal
    graphic identities seem pretty unlikely to happen on a large scale; people have
    better things to do with their time. That\u2019s why so many people just stick
    with Arial and Times New Roman."
  created: '2007-11-29 19:42:55'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "<cite>Or, rephrased, could typography someday become a part of person\u2019s
    style (resembling one\u2019s preferences in cars, clothing brands etc.). The answer
    is probably no, but could you at least imagine such scenario?</cite>\r\n\r\n[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qoIvd3zzu4Y|American
    Psycho]]"
  created: '2007-11-29 19:51:40'
- author:
    name: Chasography
    picture: 113668
  body: "That is true about music. People would rather pick something easy and fast
    than spend time to find whats really good. Thats why people just listen to hits
    radio to find out what they like rather than pouring themselves into a nice independant
    record company. But I still think it should be an elective, to give at least the
    choice to discover type before college for those not growing up around design.\r\n\r\nChase
    Langdon"
  created: '2007-11-29 19:52:52'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: I think 'design' in general needs to be better taught. Aspects of Graphic
    design could certainly be included in Writing classes and art classes.
  created: '2007-11-29 20:01:59'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: "\"American Psycho\"\r\n\r\nROFL.\r\n\r\nI imagine a wife nagging her husband
    that while the neighbors already use 2 nicely matching DTL fonts we only have
    a license for Courier."
  created: '2007-11-29 20:11:19'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "I've said this in another thread but will repeat it here. Am doing some mandatory
    and painful PowerPoint training. I am amazed and disgusted by the delivery of
    the material. It's all about everything you CAN do, and nothing about WHY you
    should do it. One thing that would have incredible impact is Microsoft getting
    rid of \"WordArt\" (has there ever been anything more offensive to a typographer)
    and making some effort to educate users of its software about the fundamentals
    of design, rather than just telling everyone, \"Look! You can center it!\" \"Look!
    You can make everything a different color!\" \"Look you can italicize it!\" or,
    of course, the creme de le creme, \"LOOK! YOU'VE GOT HUNDREDS OF FONTS TO CHOOSE
    FROM!!!\"\r\n\r\nTeaching it in schools? That would require good teachers. Who's
    going to educate the teachers?\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-29 20:32:05'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: "\"Teaching it in schools? That would require good teachers. Who\u2019s going
    to educate the teachers?\"\r\n\r\nCould they be perhaps guest lecturers instead?\r\n\r\nI've
    noticed that for many people it's quite interesting to hear about the origin of
    a typeface etc. once they get beyond the feeling that all sans faces look the
    same. And children use to be excited when they can identify Optima or Futura on
    a product packaging or posters in the street. But yes, it would be different if
    they were obliged to do a homework with that subject."
  created: '2007-11-29 20:46:40'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I am amazed and disgusted by the delivery of the material. It\u2019s all
    about everything you CAN do, and nothing about WHY you should do it.\"\r\n\r\nPar
    for the course when it comes to MS products and training."
  created: '2007-11-29 21:37:39'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Isn't this standard for any 'creative' product - I'm sure the Adobe trainers
    don't say, \"we include all of these crazy filters but don't use them as they
    look crap!\"\r\n\r\nTeaching kids visual literacy skills shouldn't involve computers
    or type - kids should be taught how to create visuals using pen and paper to convey
    information - charts, maps, etc.,  \r\n"
  created: '2007-11-29 22:20:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>1. Do you think people/children should get basic information about typography
    in the context of mandatory education?</em>\r\n\r\nI think children should be
    educated to use the media prevalent in society. It used to be pen and paper. Now
    it is keyboard and page layout application.\r\n\r\n<em>2. Would this improve the
    overall taste and literacy of general public?</em>\r\n\r\nTypographic taste, certainly.\r\n\r\n<em>3.
    How would you schedule such education?</em>\r\n\r\nAfter learning basic \"block
    letter\" writing, before learning cursive script, as per below.\r\n\r\n<em>4.
    Are there countries that actually made some steps in this area?</em>\r\n\r\nNorway.\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/education/3103421.stm"
  created: '2007-11-29 22:21:07'
- author:
    name: j_p_giese
    picture: 110076
  body: "<cite>1. Do you think people/children should get basic information about
    typography in the context of mandatory education?</cite>\r\n\r\nNo. To me, typography
    seems to be about the last thing that everyone must know about -- but nothing
    against offering information for those who seek it! When I was in school, I enjoyed
    taking part in voluntary courses in my free time (actually, I enjoyed that more
    than school itself). There weren't all too many students who weren't already sated
    by the chemistry and physics classes they <em>had</em> to take, though, and I
    doubt that as many would've been eager to learn about typography.\r\n\r\n<cite>2.
    Would this improve the overall taste and literacy of general public?</cite>\r\n\r\nImprove
    taste?\r\nTeaching about type (or graphic design, for that matter) might help
    to impart a sense for the related aesthetics, yes, although I consider it to not
    be terribly relevant whether the general public has good typographic taste or
    not.\r\nBut teaching about type and design might actually have a greater influence
    on the taste of the public than does teaching about music: some people do have
    what you might call poor musical taste and you wouldn't be very likely to change
    their preferences (if you felt the urge to try), but I assume that people don't
    awarely like bad design, they just don't know any better.\r\n\r\nImprove literacy?\r\nIf
    by literacy you mean being educated: yes, obviously (by however much it improves
    your literacy to know about type), as long as being tought about type doesn't
    mean you're not tought about something possibly more important instead.\r\nIf
    you mean the ability to read, I don't see a connection to knowing about type.\r\n\r\n----\r\n\r\nWhen
    you ponder about the typographic taste of the public, please don't forget that
    the life of some designers would be devoid of joy if they couldn't ridicule Comic
    Sans and its ubiquitous use.\r\n\r\nJens"
  created: '2007-11-29 22:23:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Mandatory music classes education hasn\u2019t done anything to change the
    public taste for bad music\r\n\r\nWhere in the US do they have mandatory music
    education? According [[http://music-for-all.org/sos.html|to this article]], in
    California, for example, there was a huge decline in music education 2000-2004,
    from about 18% to 9% of students. The problem isn't bad education but no education,
    so far as I can see.  \r\n\r\nI think education in the arts lifts taste. Go to
    a jazz or classical concert and I bet most of the audience will have played an
    instrument in school, or learned as a child. I think our country would be a better
    place with good arts education.  \r\n\r\nI would like to see design education
    in high schools. Now art is most often taught only as something expressive. I
    think some education in design--architecture, product design, and graphic design--would
    be great, and would lift the taste of the public.   "
  created: '2007-11-29 22:32:05'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "This is an interesting idea. I think children learning to write have such
    open, interested minds. It would be a wonderful time to introduce something about
    type.  Education in the arts lifts more than tastes. I think it lifts the spirit
    and inspires students to raise their own expectations. Every high school graduate
    should leave school with a skill they can use to make a living, basic skills in
    maintaining a home and raising a family, and a serious introduction to at least
    one of the arts. \r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2007-11-29 22:59:57'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Where in the US do they have mandatory music education?</cite>\r\n\r\nVirginia
    had it when I grew up there in the 1980s and early 1990s. Maybe that has changed.\r\n\r\n<cite>I
    would like to see design education in high schools\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nI am not
    opposed to general design education in schools; my life would be far better had
    that been an option. But the original question was specifically about teaching
    typography. If schools would add design as an option students could explore in
    the way I studied drafting when I was in school, I could see it as making sense.
    But just adding typography into education, along with all the other stuff kids
    are taught, and all of the test-taking skills they have to learn to prove that
    they\u2019re memorizing all of the random factoids they\u2019re taught, just seems
    like a bad idea to me."
  created: '2007-11-30 01:19:38'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: "\"But just adding typography into education, along with all the other stuff
    kids are taught, and all of the test-taking skills they have to learn to prove
    that they\u2019re memorizing all of the random factoids they\u2019re taught, just
    seems like a bad idea to me.\"\r\n\r\nIt was not meant this way. (I am opposed
    to homeworks, test-taking, grades, in relation to typography.) It's entirely open
    question. I don't think of single subject named Typography. Some topics on book
    and printing history, type basics and so on, could be included in other subjects
    (art? history?). The questions are: 1. if it should be a part of education, 2.
    what should be taught, 3. which way it should be taught + how to include it in
    various subjects, 4. at what age. Of course, it should be clear 5. why - to expand
    the mental horizons? To improve taste? To better understand the culture? To emancipate
    typography from an obscure art to its deserved position?"
  created: '2007-11-30 01:55:31'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: BTW, I have the experience with my own kids. They loved to browse through
    typeface specimens without any guidance or suggestions. It was surely not boring
    for them compared to any of their schoolbooks. Is that not an opportunity to combine
    pleasure with some useful knowledge?
  created: '2007-11-30 02:12:00'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Hi, loremipsum. I don't have time to read the whole thread right now, but,
    considering the fact that kids today have access to computers, fonts, and document-creation
    programs, I don't think that imparting some basic typographic dos and don'ts is
    such a bad idea... at least in theory. The so-called \"democratization of type
    and graphics\" has done away with years of craft and knowledge, and I don't think
    we can ever go back, barring some huge power crisis and/or breakdown of civilization
    from an overload of useless information bombardment... but I digress. Just as
    kids should be taught to be media-savvy, read between the lines and not believe
    everything the newspaper or television says, maybe they should know a minimum
    of type rules...\r\n\r\n<em>BTW, I have the experience with my own kids. They
    loved to browse through typeface specimens without any guidance or suggestions.</em>\r\n\r\nTypeface
    specimens in the classroom... Ha! I love it.  :-)\r\nJust playing devil's advocate
    here, but... When I was growing up there were plenty of books at home... but not
    all of my siblings got into reading for pleasure. Still, if they (the type specimens)
    are around, the chance of someone discovering and falling in love with type increases...\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, have you seen the <a href=\"http://www.papress.com/designityourself/index.html\">D.I.Y.</a>
    series of books by Ellen and Julia Lupton?"
  created: '2007-11-30 08:29:23'
- author:
    name: nora g
    picture: 113099
  body: "In 2003 at the forum typografie-conference in Essen/Germany we initialized
    discussion groups.  And one them, started by Jay Rutherford, discussed this item
    \u2013 typography at school \u2013  for two days. As far as I know, there had
    been two persons who than began to realize projects in this direction. Sandra
    Brand gave workshops at a german highschool. Her first aim was to explain the
    teachers the need of knowledge of typographic basics. And she did it very well,
    the teachers has been convinced about the idea, what a useful tool typography
    can be, to facilitate reading and learning by visualizing structures. Karin Schmidt-Friderichs
    is the other one. She is one of the owners of the well-known Schmidt Verlag in
    Mainz/Germany. And her aim was, to tell the children directly about type and book-making.
    I met her at Typo Berlin, and she told me with shiny eyes, how interested the
    six and seven year-old kids had been in regarding different letterforms, and talking
    about this \u2013 as well as discovering how books are made, and in catching the
    differences in function. After this succesful experiences Bertram and Karin Schmidt-Friderichs
    decided this year to establish a foundaton which will bring typography to schools.
    The first step now, ist to work out a detailled concept for teaching at elemantary
    schools the basics of designing and manufacturing of books, and in the second
    step to introduce something like a \"driver license for keyboards\" at middle
    and upper school. (More Info: only in german: http://www.fontblog.de/typografie-paedagogische-stiftung-foerderer-gesucht)"
  created: '2007-11-30 13:54:59'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Virginia had it when I grew up there in the 1980s and early 1990s. Maybe
    that has changed.\"\r\n\r\nIt absolutely has changed. The arts have been hit the
    hardest in our public school system.\r\n\r\n\"But just adding typography into
    education, along with all the other stuff kids are taught, and all of the test-taking
    skills they have to learn to prove that they\u2019re memorizing all of the random
    factoids they\u2019re taught, just seems like a bad idea to me.\"\r\n\r\nRight...the
    problem is all the time we're wasting with the testing and rote memorization that
    should be better spent on the arts. ;o)"
  created: '2007-11-30 14:32:55'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: "As a trained and full-time musician, I'm very encouraged by all the parallels
    fellow typophiles draw to music and music education. I have encountered many similarities
    among type/design theory and music theory, be they technical, aesthetic, or more
    esoteric.\r\n\r\nBTW, as far as the thread goes, I have mixed feelings about the
    proposed ideas. The idealist in me says \"Bring on the type education!\" I do
    think it may provoke better homemade design, ubiquitous as this stuff seems. However,
    that would ultimately lead to less work for experienced designers. We're already
    becoming a DIY society. To provide education on type and design without solicitation
    could be akin to the magician revealing the secrets his tricks. Then we'd get
    a bunch of people who actually know *how* to design well, but don't necessarily
    have the talent to do it with appeal.\r\n\r\n???\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nRay\r\nhttp://rkingston.com"
  created: '2007-11-30 16:28:11'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I'm working as a teacher in a small school in Bergen, Norway. We use Sasson
    in all printed material, as well as education. The kids start out reading and
    writing (using dotted characters at first) in first grade. \r\n\r\nI've also been
    suggesting some fonts for a hiphop project we did (we've got a large Dr. Dre poster
    set in Eagle on the wall), as well as other stuff they create, but they tend to
    choose Comic Sans when ever possible. "
  created: '2007-11-30 16:39:14'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "Back to the top:\r\n\r\n<cite>Could they be perhaps guest lecturers instead?</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    like this idea so much I might just try it here in my hometown. I think if you
    gave me just one hour with a group of high school students, I could give them
    a very valuable Design Fundamentals or Type 101 lecture with slides that would,
    at the very least, encourage the one or two kids who are interested to learn more.
    (Surely lots of us could that, but it probably doesn't pay very well, so it'd
    have to be thought of more as a civic duty or public service.) Baby steps is a
    good way to start. We must \"be the change we wish to see in the world.\" That's
    the hard part.\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-30 18:47:42'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: "\"I think if you gave me just one hour with a group of high school students,
    I could give them a very valuable Design Fundamentals or Type 101 lecture with
    slides that would, at the very least, encourage the one or two kids who are interested
    to learn more.\"\r\nGreat! Let us please know what was the response.\r\n\r\n\"That\u2019s
    the hard part.\"\r\nSomeone has to be the first typovangelist :-)"
  created: '2007-11-30 19:00:26'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "My 6 year old (1st grade) likely has ADD (I was diagnosed as an adult and
    it's fairly clear he's got some of the same challenges I had).\r\n\r\nHe's currently
    in gifted program that seems mainly focused on the 3 Rs, which is a bit frustrating
    (for him and us), as I find that to not be very balanced curriculum (that and
    us ADD folks really prefer the hands-on courses).\r\n\r\nAnyways, long story short...he
    has a lot of trouble with handwriting, as it takes a lot of focus and it frustrates
    him. However, he absolutely loves the computer and typing on it. The other day
    he was in KidPix and began typing a letter to me. He'd then choose a different
    font, print it out, and give it to me and ask me if I could read it. He was impressed
    that I could read blackletter (some dads fix cars to impress their kids, I guess
    I read blackletter and know fonts ;o). He finally stumped me with WingDings.\r\n\r\nIt
    didn't occur to me until this thread, but I have done nothing formal with him
    in terms of talking about graphic design and typography. He simply discovered
    fonts on the computer on his own and noticed that they are all different.\r\n\r\nSo
    clearly a child even in first grade could benefit a bit from some simple education
    on things like letterforms.\r\n\r\nAfter all, they are learning handwriting alongside
    of computer typesetting these days. Typography also has great tie-ins to languages,
    cultures and history as well."
  created: '2007-11-30 20:49:48'
date: '2007-11-29 19:16:08'
title: Typography - basic education

---
