---
author:
  name: ebensorkin
  picture: 109987
body: 'I was emailing Juliet Shen today about what she calls the "Yankee eclecticism"
  of [[Morris Fuller Benton]] and I thought I would open up my questions to the good
  folk of Typophile. I am interested MFB it because in him I think I see an especially
  good - maybe textbook example of solid typographic innovation and improvement occurring
  in a nearly pure typographic context as opposed to chiorographic/scribal/Noordzij-centric
  context. I am interested to know if you think this formulation or way of thinking
  is ''right on'' or bunk and why you think that. I am also interested to know what
  your favorite MFB contribution to type might be. '
comments:
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I am interested MFB it because in him I think I see an especially good...</em>\r\n\r\ndo
    you mind rewording this? "
  created: '2007-12-02 11:12:27'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I am also interested to know what your favorite MFB contribution to type
    might be.</em>\r\n\r\nthe concept of  typeface system - Clearface. i'm thinking
    this was the first example of a serif and a sans conceived to work together from
    the start, but i could be wrong. somebody correct me if i am."
  created: '2007-12-02 11:15:36'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "There may have been German examples of a Fraktur and Antiqua designed to
    work together, perhaps for bureaucratic reasons? I know that there was an \"Amts-Antiqua\"
    and an \"Amts-Fraktur\"\u2026 whether this constitutes a system would need more
    searching on my part. "
  created: '2007-12-02 12:07:52'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Hello Eben, you also might try to contact Mr Paul Shaw, if I'm correct he
    won a National Endowment for the Humanities fellowship to study the type designs
    of Morris Fuller Benton.
  created: '2007-12-02 13:35:03'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Funny, I know Paul more as a Dwiggins guy. But I'm sure he would have definite
    opinions (and insight) about your query, Eben. Paul is also a letterer and calligrapher,
    as well as a historian, so he would have a unique perspective. Drop me a line
    privately if you want me to put you in touch with him.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-02 14:29:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...she calls the \u201CYankee eclecticism\u201D of Morris Fuller Benton\"\r\n\r\nwhere
    does she call what aspect of Morris Fuller Benton Yankee eclecticism?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-12-02 18:08:32'
- author:
    name: paul_romaine
    picture: 110290
  body: "Paul Shaw is a good resource. I think his Benton work was about 15+ years
    ago.\r\n\r\nFYI (and especially for the lurkers), there was an article in APHA's
    journal, <cite>Printing History</cite>, \"Linn Boyd Benton, Morris Fuller Benton,\r\nand
    Typemaking at ATF,\" by Patricia Cost, which is more biographical and is <a href=\"http://www.printinghistory.org/htm/journal/articles/31-32-Cost-Benton.pdf\">online
    here</a> (PDF).\r\n\r\n-Paul\r\n(among other things, APHA VP for Programs)"
  created: '2007-12-02 18:08:39'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks for all the responses! \r\n\r\n<cite> do you mind rewording this </cite>\r\n\r\nSure.
    It was a bit of a funny/odd phrasing. Sorry. I am just saying that his type designs
    ( based on admittedly my still too superficial knowledge ) leave a reliance on
    the automatic logic of chrirographically derived forms. Juliet feels that this
    is because his approach was that of an engineer which seems reasonable to me.\r\n\r\n<cite>Clearface</cite>\r\n\r\nThanks
    Paul. I will have to have a look at that. Is there a specific feature/s within
    the face that you would suggest I pay attention to?\r\n\r\n<cite> where does she
    call what aspect of Morris Fuller Benton Yankee eclecticism? </cite>\r\n\r\nShe
    used that phrase at Typecon while speaking and also with me by email. She coined
    the term I think to illustrate a contrast she saw in his work vs 'consistent'
    pen derived forms. The reason I think this is interesting is that there are advantages
    and to be had with either approach. So recognizing the power to be derived from
    a more purely Typographic set of solutions is interesting both because they work,
    and because they have been distinctively ( typographically/optically ) derived.
    \r\n\r\nAnd in terms of the 'what', eg the evidence for this idea - that's what
    I want to assemble.\r\n\r\nPaul Romaine, Thanks!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nKent, I have contact
    info for Paul. I will contact him. Thanks!\r\n\r\nDan, was your post meant for
    a different thread? I am not following your thinking yet.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-02 19:48:24'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Is there a specific feature/s within the face that you would suggest
    I pay attention to?</em>\r\n\r\njust what i noted above: that it was conceived
    as a sans/serif system to work together & may have been one of the first developed
    in this way. dan was responding to my claim that it was THE first."
  created: '2007-12-02 19:57:01'
- author:
    name: jshen
    picture: 113709
  body: 'I used the phrase "Yankee eclecticism" during talks at TypeCon and ATypI
    this year to describe the design approach used by MFB in Clearface. I was referring
    to the mixing of features from different historical periods, such as unbracketed
    slab serifs with a venetion e and obliquely stressed c. My impression is that
    some early 20th c. American metal typefaces freely adopt design details from the
    historical legacy without regard to maintaining the underlying logic of a particular
    tool or "stroke". The ATypI talk was recorded by TVU: http://www.river-valley.tv/conferences/atypi_brighton2007/'
  created: '2007-12-02 20:10:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's the marketplace which determines the amount of eclecticism afforded
    to type designers.\r\nMost type designers will work in a variety of genres if
    given the opportunity.\r\nHowever, if certain genres, such as script and distressed
    in the retail market, and traditional news faces in the periodical market, are
    particularly in demand, designers will gravitate to those genres.\r\nSo MFB's
    eclecticism is to be expected, as the chief designer of a large foundry.\r\n\r\nWhere
    there is some innate predisposition to design certain kinds of faces, I suspect
    it is more determined by ability than preference. For instance, some are more
    comfortable doing revivals than original work, and some are more adept at producing
    subtle shapes than novel forms. But there is plenty of room for eclecticism at
    both ends of the revival-experimental spectrum.\r\n\r\nEdit: this post doesn't
    address Juliet's specific use of the term \"Yankee Eclecticism\", due to a crossed
    post.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-02 20:18:03'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Re Crossed post. Just for clarity, Juliet; correct me if I am wrong but you
    are not referring in this case to the myriad styles in which he worked ( which
    he did indeed ), but to typographic details within a single face. eg you might
    get a c that doesn't fit a consistent logic exhibited in the rest of the face
    - hence it's 'eclectic'- but which nevertheless 'works'. \r\n\r\nIn terms of contemporary
    fonts - I think Amalia is like that."
  created: '2007-12-02 20:50:34'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Juliet Thanks for the link. How exciting!
  created: '2007-12-02 20:54:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks for the link, which I just greatly enjoyed viewing. \r\n\r\nJuliet,
    I really appreciate your insights, which are revealing and on target. \r\n\r\nI
    would somewhat take issue, though, with the idea that Benton violated the pen
    more than Europeans. When I look at your slide of older sans faces that Benton
    was reacting to, I don't see them as particularly showing the pen hand more than
    Benton. I haven't made a study of it, but my impression is that Victorian type
    was already willing to go to all kinds of shapes that had to do more with decorative
    effect, rather than the broad pen, or even the pointed pen. \r\n\r\nIt is true,
    as you point out, that Benton had the American willingness to mix styles without
    regard to historical period--but that is a different matter than the influence
    of the pen in hand. Also I would note that Caslon and I believe Dutch before him
    already had old style strokes on most of the round letters, but not on the O,o,
    which had vertical stress.\r\n\r\nFinally, while it is true that Benton hasn't
    had the press of other designers, I think the appreciation of his types both by
    connoisseurs and the general public has been always strong. Today on typophile
    everyone writes of the ATF cataloges with admiration and awe. And today the cataloges
    of Font Bureau and of Hoefler & Frere-Jones show a huge influence of Benton. \r\n\r\nI'm
    trying to remember where I read it, but I think someone said that MF Benton was
    the first type designer in the modern sense. Because of the pantographic punch
    cutter that his father invented,  he was able to draw type, and mechanize production.
    So he could do a huge variety of designs, as you point out. \r\n\r\nAs you also
    point out, he wasn't the greatest in producing elegant designs. But he was the
    greatest craftsman of his time, and one of the best ever. All his designs have
    superb consistency and even color, and in different optical sizes, as you point
    out. And they haven't gone away, but are still a big part of the public face of
    America.     \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2007-12-02 22:46:52'
- author:
    name: jshen
    picture: 113709
  body: "For Eben, yes I was referring to eclecticism within a single typeface design,
    not over an entire career. \r\n\r\nIn response to William, thanks for pointing
    out the precedent set by Victorian decorative types. I think what distinguished
    Benton was his use of the mechanical equipment to create families with a larger
    range of legibility, rather than more variety or more ornamentation. It's true
    that there is today a contemporary appreciation of Benton, but if you read the
    type histories covering the period of his career, he receives very little mention."
  created: '2007-12-03 00:35:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> his use of the mechanical equipment to create families with a larger
    range of legibility </cite>\r\n\r\nExactly! \r\n\r\nTo help keep the thread going
    I will try to post example details that we can discuss. If anybody else wants
    to do this as well it would be most welcome.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-03 02:16:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>his use of the mechanical equipment to create families with a larger
    range of legibility, rather than more variety or more ornamentation.</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    surely, foundries had produced size-specific fonts--from Elephant to Diamond--in
    the early 19th century, with people punch-cutters.\r\n\r\nIt was primarily the
    division of labour in a large factory which enabled MFB to design so many fonts,
    and ATF didn't invent division of labour. It could be said that the pantograph's
    requirement of engineering drawings led to the large drawing offices of ATF and
    Linotype, with many draftsmen/-women, institutionalizing the process of design
    direction to a greater degree than when punches were cut by hand. \r\n\r\nOne
    would imagine that slightly earlier, MacKellar, Smiths & Jordan, Philadelphia,
    1875, for instance, drawings were made at a large type size--two or four-line
    pica perhaps--and approved before metalwork began. But the size-specific scaling
    for smaller sizes would have been left to the experienced discretion of cutters
    working on a particular size, rather than being capable of calculation and inspection
    beforehand.\r\n\r\nWood type had been made from large drawings, with a pantograph,
    from the 1830s, but the same \"legibility\" inference can't be made as for MFB
    and the pantograph.\r\n\r\nWas one master drawing used for all sizes of an ATF
    type, mechanically modified in the \"output\" -- or were separate drawings done
    for each size?\r\n\r\nDid Benton do the engineering drawings used by the pantograph,
    or something smaller? Goudy mentions, in <em>Goudy's Type Designs</em> that his
    drawings for Kennerley (1911) were one inch high--so it would appear that a lot
    was left to the drawing office, and its design director(s), as the engineering
    drawings for the pantograph were much larger (13\"?), which meant that a process
    of interpretation would have occurred in scaling up Goudy's drawings, no matter
    how exquisite they were, or how much larger than the final type.\r\n\r\nWhatever,
    as the chief designer of a large type factory, MFB  would have had a greater control
    of the fine details of all sizes of type than almost any other type designer of
    his era and earlier--anyone, in fact, who did not cut his own punches. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-03 04:53:56'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "> <cite> I am interested to know if you think this formulation or way of
    thinking is \u2019right on\u2019 or bunk and why you think that.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    think you're right on. Based on Patricia Cost's bio of the Bentons (cited and
    linked above), I *think* MFB was a reticent typographer. He was many other things
    other than a type designer. To him, it was a job...a good paying job given to
    him by his father (that's conjecture). For this reason, and taking into consideration
    the factory setting and the pantograph, what you get from Benton is a tendency
    towards more practical type, without all of the fluff and whimsy that comes from
    a more obsessive typophile. It is my guess that if Morris Benton were alive today,
    he would not be a contributor to Typophile. He'd rather be taking photographs
    or walking in the woods.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite> I am also interested to know what your
    favorite MFB contribution to type might be.</cite>\r\n\r\nI admire the entire
    Century and News Gothic families, and think they complement each other nicely.
    I am happy to have a lot of it in metal, and would be even more happy to have
    more of it in metal, if anyone's got it and wants to see it put to good use!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-03 15:46:46'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<cite>It is my guess that if Morris Benton were alive today, he would not
    be a contributor to Typophile. He\u2019d rather be taking photographs or walking
    in the woods.</cite>\r\n\r\nWho wouldn't? : )\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen
    BNO"
  created: '2007-12-03 15:54:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">without all of the fluff and whimsy that comes from a more obsessive typophile.
    \r\n\r\nI've got one word for you: Hobo. \r\n\r\nI don't know about obsessive,
    but I think you have to love your work to work with the care and creativity that
    Juliet analyses in the case of Franklin Gothic. I agree that Benton wouldn't be
    posting on Typophile, as he evidently hated putting forward a public face. But
    I think he had to have been as much a fan of great type as the rest of us. "
  created: '2007-12-03 15:59:23'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "> <cite>I\u2019ve got one word for you: Hobo.</cite>\r\n\r\nLOL! Hey...everybody
    needs to let it all hang out once in a while! And for the record, Hobo could kick
    Comic Sans' ass any day!\r\n\r\n> <cite>But I think he had to have been as much
    a fan of great type as the rest of us.</cite>\r\n\r\nA lot of this is conjecture.
    Maybe he was. I get the impression that he was the type of guy who would look
    at one of those great type faces, go, \"M-hmmm...That's very nice. I like it,\"
    and never look at it again. There is something to be said for absorbing something,
    storing it, and getting on with your work, letting the subconscious do its job.
    I like to think Morris Benton was that sort of guy...like a bored genius. Maybe
    one part arrogant, two-parts shy, and a dash of inferiority complex. I mean, imagine
    what it would be like if your dad was Linn Benton in 1905.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-03 16:30:48'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'I don''t have anything to support this, but I have the feeling Clearface
    was originally just a serif design, and that Clearface Gothic is a 1970s addition.
    Has anyone got material showing that Benton designed the 2 families as a superfamily?
    What is the earliest instance of such a superfamily, if not Clearface? '
  created: '2007-12-03 17:37:59'
- author:
    name: jshen
    picture: 113709
  body: Clearface Gothic first appears in the 1912 ATF specimen book, contiguous with
    Clearface. There can be no doubt that they were designed as a family at first.
    In the 1923 catalog, they were split and shown in separate sections of the book.
    I don't believe an earlier instance can be found in America. I can't speak for
    the German legacy, though, and would love to hear if it was done there earlier.
    I doubt it only because of the relatively brief time that gothics or grotesques
    were really in vogue before Clearface was drawn. One might issue a new grotesque
    design, yes, but why go the further step of harmonizing the design with a serif
    design, a very difficult task, when there was no market for such a pairing of
    fonts?
  created: '2007-12-03 18:07:09'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "I had the same thought as Carl had about Clearface Gothic being from the
    70s.\r\n\r\nBUT THEN . . . . here's what Linotype says on its web site:\r\n\r\n\"Clearface
    Gothic appeared in 1910 and was designed by Morris F. Benton, a world-famous and
    prolific typeface artist. In addition to Clearface Gothic, Benton also designed
    classics like Franklin Gothic, Century, and many others. Clearface Gothic is a
    sans serif typeface with light forms which display the Zeitgeist of the turn of
    the 20th century. Distinguishing characteristics are the open forms of the a and
    c, the arched k, and the upward-tilting horizontal stroke of the e. The relatively
    narrow typeface with its open inner white spaces is extremely legible even in
    small point sizes. There is no accompanying italic. (Victor Caruso later designed
    the ITC Clearface and an italic based on the forms of Clearface.) The space-saving
    Clearface Gothic is good for both headlines and text.\"\r\n\r\n& the Precision
    Type \"Font Reference Guide\" says 1908, by Benton.\r\n\r\nMy confusion may stem
    from Caruso's work on ITC Clearface. That would have been 1970s, right? \r\n\r\nFor
    what it is worth.\r\n\r\nClearface Gothic is a marvelous American display face.
    I brought it into use for the logo when we launched our Borealis Books trade imprint.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2007-12-03 18:09:58'
- author:
    name: jshen
    picture: 113709
  body: Along with Nick, I would like to know more about the exact methods used by
    Benton to create the patterns for various sizes of a font. Theo Rehak, in his
    book "The Fall of ATF", mentions having Benton's algorithms for casting type in
    different sizes. I wrote him to see if he still had those formulas, but he had
    sold them and did not know their current whereabouts. Does anyone know where they
    are, or who owns Benton's "work diaries" that I've heard mentioned somewhere else?
  created: '2007-12-03 18:14:05'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Juliet, I recall a conversation with Mike Parker (I think it was), who had
    spent some time looking at ATF drawings in the Smithsonian. What I remember him
    saying is that for some characters there would be no more than a single drawing
    and that optical adaptations would be done in the course of the pantograph work
    (presumably according to the kinds of formulae referred to by Rehak).\r\n\r\nBut,
    for other characters -- Mike gave the 's' as an example -- there might be several
    drawings for different sizes. \r\n\r\nI recall Mike explaining that, in the right
    hands, the pantograph could be \"played like a violin\" and a lot of subtle adaptations
    made on the fly, that the operator was not necessarily strictly bound to a linear,
    mechanical reproduction of the master.\r\n\r\nYou might also try contacting Tobias
    Frere-Jones about MFB drawings, as I believe he spent some time researching various
    MFB gothics while developing Font Bureau's Benton Sans.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-04 14:06:19'
- author:
    name: malcolm
    picture: 109919
  body: "Whilst investigating MFB for a type development project last year, I got
    the feel that MFB was driven more by the technology he was developing than the
    art and design of what his technology was creating. That doesn't mean to say that
    he didn't care about the design - on the contrary the quality of the finished
    art was the proof of his developments.\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-04 19:00:50'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Malcom, would you expand on what you are saying? I would be interested in
    specific examples.\r\n\r\nKent, thanks for your recollections. Perhaps I can invite
    those folks to comment or to email back on this topic."
  created: '2007-12-04 19:47:59'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "There are ATF drawings in the Smithsonian? That\u2019s a ten-minute train
    ride away. My Christmas break has a purpose now!"
  created: '2007-12-04 20:07:59'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Just be sure to arrange it all well before hand! And take photos for your
    fellow typo-nerds!
  created: '2007-12-04 21:43:44'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "James --\r\n\r\nThey may or may not be there any longer. I seem to recall
    some hullabaloo a couple years ago about Smithsonian and whether they could justify
    maintaining a proper archive for the paper, and if not, they were going to find
    a different home for them. But I could have that all wrong. Fuzzy memory. \r\n\r\nBottom
    line: contact someone in advance so as not to be disappointed.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-04 22:07:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "[[http://typefoundry.blogspot.com/2006/01/materials-of-typefounding.html|James
    Mosley, writing in 2006]] says that the Smithsonian has many of the matrices for
    ATF's types, and a few drawings, but that much was also lost in 1993. \r\n\r\n[[http://www.advogato.org/person/raph/diary.html?start=377|Here
    Raph Levien]] describes the math of how they did the optical scaling at ATF, based
    on printed samples. "
  created: '2007-12-04 23:09:14'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Inaccessible due to asbestos\u2026as if the outdoor air in this city is any
    better!"
  created: '2007-12-04 23:52:46'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Hating to be a piss ant while at the same time defending truth and justice,
    \ ;)\r\n\r\nI actually think that Clearface preceded Clearface Gothic by a few
    years, and that they were not actually conceived as parts of a larger type system.
    Mac McGrew has the Bold serif appearing in 1905, with several other weights and
    italics following. He says the Gothic was designed in 1908, and cut in 1910. He
    seems to think it was a lone experiment, since there was only 1 weight cut with
    limited characters. Does anyone show more than the one weight in the earliest
    showings (1910)? McGrew could be basing his info only on the metal he had access
    to. \r\n\r\nI guess it's a semantic thing I'm arguing, since it was such a short
    time between the release of the serif and sans versions, and they were indeed
    based on the same skeleton, by the same designer, and given the same name. It
    might be better to characterize this as the birth of the superfamily; such a thing,
    while not intended initially for Clearface, grew out of further development of
    the serif by ITC and sans by Linotype, leading to other efforts more clearly intended
    to be coordinated from the beginning. Since the Bold serif appeared first, I don't
    think we can even say Benton intended the serif family as a large range from the
    beginning. The Heavy Italic is a slightly different animal, harking back to the
    loosely-associated groups like AG and Cushing, rather than looking forward to
    type systems like Franklin Gothic or Century. \r\n\r\nWithout notes from MFB describing
    his intentions, or other correspondence indicating the foundry's program for Clearface,
    I suppose this is all esoteric flapping anyway. But I did want to be clear about
    what was intended then, versus what we perceive now, with dozens of superfamilies
    as examples. "
  created: '2007-12-05 00:06:31'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Re: The Smithsonian: It is very possible that the drawings are here\r\n\r\nhttp://www.museumofprinting.org/\r\n\r\nI
    know they have Linotype Drawings. I never asked about ATF. What do you think Lew?\r\n\r\nWhat
    Ralf Levien is saying about the engraver & the followers on the pantograph makes
    sense to me having now used one. However what he is talking about definitely doesn't
    cover the majority of what I hope Benton might have been up to in terms of optical
    compensation. \r\n\r\nI promised to post some examples of what I was guessing
    were a-chirographic/typo-centric features in MFB designs. So to begin, \r\n\r\n-
    What about the extra white space around stroke junctures? See Juliet's video at
    about 16:20 or the letters themselves? Agree Disagree? Why?"
  created: '2007-12-05 02:09:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">a-chirographic/typo-centric features in MFB designs\r\n\r\nEben, I don't
    think whether features conform or don't conform to the pen is a particularly relevant
    issue to understanding Morris Fuller Benton. First, as I pointed out in the 'rule
    or law' thread, punch cutters were modifying the pen-drawn line from Jenson on.
    Second, the demand for advertising faces in the 19th century led to types like
    the fat faces, slab serifs, and sans serifs and other bold types that I believe
    are more influenced by sign painting and other built-up lettering than the movement
    of the pen. \r\n\r\nSo I think the departures from the pen are old news by the
    end of the 19th century, and Benton is generally not concerned with violating
    or not violating the pen, but is working within the vernacular of his day, of
    Victorian, Art Nouveau and Art Deco styles. \r\n\r\nIt strikes me that he is innovating
    in two ways. First Benton draws the model letters so that they will scale well.
    In other words, at small sizes counters will not close up, joins not clot up etc.
    This I learned from Juliet's presentation, and I think she put her finger on one
    of MFB's real innovations. He takes advantage of the fact that he for the first
    time can scale type mechanically, and he approaches a set of sizes of a design
    as a single problem: create a 'master' for a whole range of sizes. This thinking
    about a whole family strikes me as something new. I'm sure others will know more
    about this history, and hopefully enlighten us.\r\n\r\nThe other innovation is
    in his greater control over coherence of design and evenness color in any kind
    of style. In the Linn Boyd Benton essay quoted in the Cost article, he mentions
    these qualities as goals in type, and I'm sure his son Morris Fuller held the
    same view. I suspect that his ability to draw at big sizes and scale down to tiny
    ones gave him more control than a punch cutter looking through magnification.
    And he exploited this control to the maximum. You could complain that his type
    is too smooth and polished, and loses some life. But you can't complain that it
    is rough or sloppily drawn. And it is calculated to have even color. For example
    the fat terminal on the top of the c and C in Franklin Gothic gives them more
    strength and more color as a serifed C would have, and so it could be argued balances
    better with the other letters. At least I think that was in MFB's mind. The variation
    in form to achieve even color is not an innovation for text faces, but perhaps
    doing it in such a thorough-going way for display faces is. At any rate, it set
    a standard. \r\n\r\nOf course, taking advantage of the pantographic punch cutter,
    the Linotype and Monotype drawing offices were turning out very polished type
    also. But my impression is that Benton was a leader in the early years of the
    century. Is that right? It seems like by the 20's, when I guess the competitor
    of the Ludlow came in, ATF lost its lead, and started to decline. "
  created: '2007-12-05 04:25:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>he approaches a set of sizes of a design as a single problem...This thinking
    about a whole family strikes me as something new.</em>\r\n\r\nSurely type designers
    had always considered size a single problem, and sought to balance consistency
    between sizes with the specific requirements of each size.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-05 04:51:21'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: "From what I can gather about his mode of work, I doubt if one should call
    M. F. Benton a type designer. Did he ever lift a pencil, seriously? There were
    dozens of keen and skilled young draftsmen to do drawings for him. What he and
    his fellow directors at ATF did was to dump most of the types they had inherited
    and somehow bring into being a range of reliable new faces that appealed to the
    customer base, and keep innovations coming, unfailingly and regularly. \r\n\r\nIt
    meant fighting back against the Linotype, which had grabbed the market for bulk
    sales of text sizes, with completely new concepts, like the \u2018type families\u2019:
    printers who bought Cheltenham could be persuaded that they just had to add Cheltenham
    Bold, and Cheltenham Condensed and so on, all of them made in the big sizes with
    which the Linotype could never compete, and sold by means of brilliant copywriting
    and relentlessly repeated direct-mail shots. It was presumably Benton who directed
    the simplifying of the original fussy artwork for Cheltenham to get a basic design
    on which to build the variations. Overall it was a high-risk strategy, given the
    quantity of heavy engineering that was needed to launch even one face successfully
    in all sizes \u2013 but he pulled it off.\r\n\r\nIn other words, he is the first
    and probably the greatest of the 20th-century \u2018type directors\u2019, among
    whom one can name Griffiths at Mergenthaler Linotype, and maybe the Connecticut
    Yankee Pierpont (along with Morison, and the company secretary Burch \u2013 but
    that\u2019s a more complicated situation) at British Monotype. These were people
    who could \u2018manage design\u2019 successfully in a manner that one recognizes
    in some other 20th-century industrial contexts.\r\n\r\nOf course the result had
    its downside. Benton\u2019s Bodoni repackaged the (relatively) human original
    as a wholly mechanical face, ironing out all the personal quirks of the original,
    such as they were (and which the Bauer version kept). But in many ways that made
    it all the more usable and universal. Personally I dislike the way in which the
    banal regularity of Cloister Black drains the type of all the liveliness of its
    historical model. But there is something deeply reassuring about the sheer self-confident
    competence of all the ATF faces.\r\n\r\nThe answers to some of our practical questions
    are probably still buried in the ATF type drawings, most of which are indeed in
    one of the outlying stores of the Smithsonian that are not too accessible right
    now. They could show us who drew what and when, and what modifications were made
    for different sizes. I remember looking for the drawings for Cloister Black to
    see how that awful cap A, with the misplaced left-hand stroke, ever happened.
    You can just see from the drawing (an image made in minimal light and not good,
    I\u2019m afraid) that first they drew it right. Then they changed the drawing
    in order to make it wrong.\r\n\r\n\r\nBut the design sold and sold. And not just
    in ATF\u2019s version.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ATF Cloister Black
    A drg aa - 500_5315.jpg]"
  created: '2007-12-05 12:24:48'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Eben -- I don't think the Museum of Printing has any ATF materials, but you'd
    have to ask Gardner. I think some ATF material may have wound up in the Cary collection
    at RIT. If so, you might be able to get over there next summer around TypeCon.
    (Tamye is trying hard to arrange some sort of field trip in conjunction with TC08
    in Buffalo).\r\n\r\nJames Mosley mentions some minor ATF material at the Cary
    in the blog link that Bill posted above, but I keep thinking there might be something
    else. On the other hand, I could just as easily be confusing this with some MLCo
    stuff instead. This all traces back to several long conversations that I had with
    Mike (which, as you may know, can be quite rambling).\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2007-12-05 13:09:01'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>From what I can gather about his mode of work, I doubt if one should
    call M. F. Benton a type designer.</cite>\r\n\r\nWow. Not many people can make
    a statement like that and be able to back it. We\u2019re lucky to have you around,
    James.\r\n\r\nI\u2019ll try poking around the Smithsonian later this month just
    to see what the status of the asbestos removal is. Given the state of things at
    the Smithsonian right now, including the renovation of the Museum of American
    History, I expect that the answer will furrow my brow."
  created: '2007-12-05 14:14:39'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Juliet: \"I used the phrase... to describe the design approach used by MFB
    in Clearface\" ...ahh. I agree. He had so a wide range, I was momentarily estunned.
    \r\n\r\n\"My impression is that some early 20th c. American metal typefaces freely
    adopt design details from the historical legacy without regard to maintaining
    the underlying logic of a particular tool\"\r\nI was at the talk and enjoyed the
    research and presentation very much. It's always nice to have more faces attached
    to an occasional ghost. ;)\r\n\r\nAll labels aside, I think MFB was coming to
    grips with a typographic engineering problem that is sometimes helped by contrast
    with FWG's grip, and not to turn this from a post to a timber frame \u2014 both
    of these excellent designers had the problem of designing typefaces that could
    scale. Generally, scaling is imagined as ideal outlines getting bigger or smaller,
    when in fact it was (and still is),  a series of letters in a series of sizes
    made from rather ugly particle placements trying to represent ideal relationships
    between fonts.\r\n\r\nMFB's solution path, which you see taken in many modern
    designs, was to find the most economical solution, the one least likely to allow
    a particle placement failure to interrupt the form at any size within a range
    of slightly non-linear scalings. MFB's economy of shape, as is rightly pointed
    out, came at the expense of evidence-of-hand, but brought economy when the sizes
    were produced, and he loved it, I'm sure. Goudy, on the other hand, and though
    pressed to provide a certain economy, could only be sized for considerably more,
    and he loved it, I'm sure. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-05 15:07:33'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...that awful cap A, with the misplaced left-hand stroke\"\r\n\r\nWhat
    misplaced stroke!?\r\nWhat size is that drawing!?\r\nIs there anything on the
    back?\r\nWhat's it say?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-05 15:11:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Bill, I certainly understand that you may view my dichotomy of typo & chiro
    as a foolishly warmed over chestnut from the Typophile of yore. But I think you
    may be misunderstanding my intent. I am not interested in MFB as some kind of
    anti-chiro banner carrier. Not at all. Or as an originator non-chirographic design.
    I am just interested in the characterizing the improvements he offers us. I think
    they are easy to characterize in general as outside of of chirographic logic.
    I think you agree with that. Maybe you don't think it's interesting; but as far
    as I can tell you don't disagree. Irrespective of any of this it is the innovations
    themselves and the way they work in the type systems to create greater coherence
    despite of or maybe *because* of their often eclectic nature.\r\n\r\nIs that observation
    of the C yours or Juliet's? It's a nice one in any event.\r\n\r\n<cite> Surely
    </cite>\r\n\r\nCertainly there is ample evidence of this thinking in punchcut
    and hand made type."
  created: '2007-12-05 15:42:41'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: "<em>...that awful cap A, with the misplaced left-hand stroke\r\nWhat misplaced
    stroke!?</em>\r\n\r\nDavid, here is an 18th-century printing of the Caslon 36pt
    cap A that I'm pretty sure was the model for Cloister Black (rough presswork and
    a damaged sort \u2013 but a nice lively letter.) I think, but haven't got the
    reference to hand, that ATF had matrices for a good authentic version of the Caslon
    Black.\r\n\r\nFollowed by the A of Cloister Black. And by a slightly better version
    of my slide of the drawing, which I botched first time. (The letter in the drawing
    is about 10 inches high, or maybe a bit more.)\r\n\r\nWhich do you prefer?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ATF
    Cloister Black 3 - Caslon 2GP black A 500_6140.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/ATF
    Cloister Black A 2 aa 500_5221.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/ATF Cloister
    Black A drg aa det bw - 500_5495.jpg]"
  created: '2007-12-05 17:38:13'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "I'm really loving this thread, and can't help responding to \"Which do you
    prefer?\" even though that may have been directed at someone else...and of course,
    coming from me, this isn't very scientific, and I hope that doesn't bother anyone...\r\n\r\nI
    prefer Benton's because it balances the positive and negative space so well...it's
    just a magnificent shape that really transcends \"letter.\" Both are very glorious
    representations of A, depicting a reverence for the alphabet that I can really
    get into. And I can't figure out what the botched stroke is, either...maybe you're
    referring to how much more open the Benton A is...I see that as an improvement,
    although I have to admit it somehow looks much more mechanically derived...which
    probably has a lot to do with Benton being an engineer.\r\n\r\nAt the same time
    that I'm admiring this A, it strikes me that one could say they're both completely
    ridiculous when it comes to the economy of form ebraced by Gill, Tschichold, and
    modernity in general. And each has its place in this world. But I realize that's
    no big revelation."
  created: '2007-12-05 18:11:08'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: "<em>I can\u2019t figure out what the botched stroke is</em>\r\n\r\nIn the
    Caslon A (which is from an early French original) the left-hand and right-hand
    strokes meet at the apex from which the calligraphic flourish springs, which seems
    to me to make sense and a beautiful letter too. And that is how the ATF draftsman
    did it first \u2013 but either he changed his mind or perhaps somebody (MFB?)
    told him to erase it and push the stroke to the left. I think this wrecks the
    dynamics of the letter, making it plodding and dull \u2013 but that's just my
    opinion. The draftsman didn't quite erase the first stroke (as a protest, maybe?).
    At any rate MFB showed that he was not going to be dictated to by old Caslon."
  created: '2007-12-05 18:33:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I can't judge the \"A\" alone without the rest to see if the more open revision
    helps or not. The other issue is inkspread. Perhaps the the thinking was that
    the counter would close too much in printing and needed to be opened?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-05 18:48:06'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Not that MFB is guilty of what I'm about to say ... Although I do prefer
    the original to the final cap A ...\r\n\r\nI think there is a problem today with
    many (not all) type designers today having an urge to produce such crisp letter
    forms with such severe lines, corners and serifs, that they lose any warmth or
    humanity. "
  created: '2007-12-05 19:16:18'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "I can see clearly now that the \"botched\" stroke is as I suspected. And
    I couldn't agree more with the inkspread control theory above, playing to the
    practical nature of the ATF types designed under Benton's direction. I'll admit
    the Caslon A has more charm, and that \"plodding\" and \"dull\" are great adjectives
    for the Benton A, but somehow it remains my personal preference. This coming from
    a guy who really likes [[http://www.identifont.com/show?245|Century Oldstyle]],
    even after Stan Nelson told him it's \"about as exciting as a truck.\" hmmmm...what
    does this say about <cite>me</cite>?\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-05 19:18:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Strangely, when scientists search other planets for signs of life, they look
    for  geometric shapes to indicate structures created by human-like life forms:-)
    What does \"Warmth and humanity\" really mean?\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-05 19:21:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Is that observation of the C yours or Juliet\u2019s? It\u2019s a nice one
    in any event.\r\n\r\nThat's one of many similar observations in Doyald Young's
    wonderful book \"Fonts and Logos\". --I expanded a bit on it. \r\n\r\nYoung is
    wonderfully perceptive on how the details of a letter contribute to or detract
    from how letters work together, and in particular how variation in form can enhance
    even color. And he shows in re-drawing type for logos how the unity can be enhanced
    when you have the freedom to alter characters for the best look of a specific
    word. I have to thank Hrant for singing the praises of this book, as I got it
    because of that, and it is one of the handful I have learned most from about type.
    \r\n\r\n>From what I can gather about his mode of work, I doubt if one should
    call M. F. Benton a type designer. Did he ever lift a pencil, seriously?\r\n\r\nOh-oh,
    you are getting the acidity of a real Typophiler :) \r\n\r\nWhy can't Benton have
    been both a type director and a type designer? What exactly about how he worked
    leads you to think that he never picked up a pencil? I would think if he had a
    drawing office for new fonts he would draw a few key characters--such as \"agone
    CHORD\", and then correct others' drawings as they made the drawings based on
    these models. If he had an existing design, like Bodoni, then he might just blue
    pencil the original. But for a new design this wouldn't be enough. \r\n\r\nDesigns
    like Clearface and Franklin Gothic I thought were new designs, and in any case
    these clearly have been carefully thought through down to the smallest detail.
    Somebody *designed* these faces, and if not Benton--who claims to have designed
    them in the volume Juliet shows slides of--who did?"
  created: '2007-12-05 19:26:40'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Chris, I meant the problem we see (I see) in such faces as Scala where it
    is so overtly crisp that the only time it (I think) looks good is printing off
    of an old ink jet printer. (I'd guess letter-press might warm it up too.)\r\n\r\nEdit:
    I should add that I am generalizing and when it comes to display type the rules
    change."
  created: '2007-12-05 19:48:14'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "James. that was great. Thanks very much! RE: the A. I think making the inside
    white of the A bigger was smart even though it flies in the face of the scribal
    tradition. I say it's 'smart' in the sense that it confers some advantages; not
    that it is somehow universally 'right'. I think the advantages are that the larger
    opening may help recognition of the A by a person who is less familiar with this
    style of lettering. I know that it took me a long time to learn to recognize what
    certain blackletter caps were and I still have a rough time with some of them.
    I think that the result of his change is a a sort of Roman A in Blackletter clothing.
    I can see where that would sell more Cloister for Ads. And to echo previous comments
    I think it probably did help to resist in buildup. It is striking how the new
    composition does make your eye cycle around it very smoothly and over & over.
    The old one holds my eye up at various points.\r\n\r\nI also think the little
    teardrop at the far lower left is interesting too. In the original it isn't so
    important because of where the weight of the letter is - mostly on the right -
    but with the new distribution the need for support moves to the left and the teardrop
    has to be beefed up.\r\n\r\nRE; Being a designer. Even if Benton did not do the
    drafting, if his ideas were being expressed in the design I am willing to consider
    him the designer.\r\n\r\nI agree that the idea that MFB's type is often a little
    too smooth is borne out in this example too. It is a little pasteurized somehow.\r\n\r\nAlthough
    in his defense I have to say that I think Franklin Gothic has an impish soul that
    I have often wondered over and admired.\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-05 19:55:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I doubt if one should call M. F. Benton a type designer. Did he ever
    lift a pencil, seriously?</em>\r\n\r\nThe types didn't design themselves.\r\nLabour
    can be divided in many ways, but it's customary to attribute authorship to one
    person in a creatively decisive position. In advertising and films, such \"auteurs\"
    are called directors, but in other disciplines they are called artists and designers,
    whether or not they do any of the heavy lifting themselves.\r\n\r\nAs an engineering
    graduate, MFB had an appropriate education in designing and drafting--a training
    geared to directing others in drafting and executing his ideas. So, within the
    corporate environment of an industrial enterprise like ATF, with its integration
    of product development, manufacturing and marketing and its hierarchy of job functions,
    the question of how he wielded his pencil is moot.  \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-05 20:10:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I understand that Erik Spiekermann works more as a director of others than
    one who actually pulls bezier handles himself. I would certainly still count him
    as a designer of type. Even if this is not the most often chosen way to work in
    our time, it is still valid and viable. I'll give MFB the same nod and call him
    a type designer as well. Renaissance painters had collaborating staff to complete
    the master's work, too. Why not type designers?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-05 20:46:06'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "James M.\" \"Which do you prefer?\"\r\n\r\nWell, this is a very tough question.
    \r\n\r\nCaslon's 36pt cap A is the printing of a thing...and is, while the Cloister
    Black drawing is a picture of things... to come. \r\n\r\nI hate the scaling of
    Cloister Black's uppercase, and I love the olde hot metal. \r\n\r\nThat MFB's
    A is road kill compared to Caslon's, is a good point, but the point in the context
    of my part in this thread is \u2014 MFB \"had to\" make an A design that could
    scale to a range of sizes, in ATF's foundry. Even if a letter does not \"work\"
    for all users and uses, it still had to be made somehow. See, (I'm looking at
    the whole range in the 1912 book), he's bashed this letter to save the whole typeface,
    it's precious.\r\n\r\nMy guess is, if You were to properly execute a scaleable
    version of Caslon's A's (6-72 pt)(and we can blessedly forget about the mental
    chaos of a machinable version now that we have digital), there would be a graceful
    opening of the top, in conjunction with refloating of flags and twisting of terminals,
    as the size went down, to expand and preserve that little baby triangle, diminish
    the complexity of the 5-way intersection up on its head, and broaden the body...
    that, is what I'd prefer. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-06 14:36:24'
date: '2007-12-02 09:39:07'
node_type: forum
title: Morris Fuller Benton and "Yankee eclecticism"

---
