---
author:
  name: russellm
  picture: 111614
body: "Per Goran Soderstrom's comment about nodes in the <a href=http://typophile.com/node/39661>Traffic
  System Typeface</a> thread about the quality of curves in a \"terribly badly digitized\"
  font, what constitutes a \"bad curve\"? Eg, if I'm comparing a professionally designed
  typeface to one by an amateur, what would tell you who did which font? \r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "I am convinced one major possible flaw, probably the only one, is discontinuous
    curvature, like in this example:\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/discontinuous_4202.png]\r\n&nbsp;\r\nSee
    how little the shape needs to be changed to make it look harmonious:\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/continuous_4520.png]\r\n&nbsp;\r\nThe
    good thing is that fixing this is an objective task and can even be automated."
  created: '2007-12-03 18:33:43'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "A bad curve has bumps that stick out in like tumors in places they shouldn\u2019t,
    usually because someone is using too many BCPs. Curves that do no smoothly transition
    to straight lines when they should can also be considered bad. This sort of stuff
    is often unnoticeable at text sizes, but in signage it can be pretty gross.\r\n\r\nThe
    easiest way to understand this is to open a font by Christian Schwarz or Hoefler
    & Frere-Jones and compare them with some of the crappier free fonts out there."
  created: '2007-12-03 18:36:58'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "J.P. De Gregorio has a good <a href=\"http://typies.blogspot.com\">article,</a>
    scroll down.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-03 19:19:28'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "Top: Bad Curve\r\n\r\nBelow: Good Curve\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bad_good_4760.png]\r\n(Just
    to be a little more drastic than Tim Ahrens rather advanced description of a bad
    curve)\r\n;-)"
  created: '2007-12-03 19:26:50'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "I'm missing the photographer here, but that's a good curve,\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/good_curve_6454.jpg]"
  created: '2007-12-03 19:39:31'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "less than good (although appropriate for the baked goods)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/300px-600px_Muffin-Top_4253.jpg]"
  created: '2007-12-03 19:43:46'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Thanks everyone.\r\n\r\nAlessandro / Jupiterboy,\r\n\":\xAC<em>)</em>\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2007-12-03 20:03:58'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: just an observation, but it's interesting to read the opinion that pure curves
    are necessarily good. I feel that creating smooth curves in this way leaves me
    wandering what I am giving away, what I am letting myself being deceived into
    accepting as 'true', precisely because they are clean. There's a funny blandness
    to smooth bezier curves that inhibits drawing I feel. It takes a while to become
    confident enough to intentionally throw bumps into the mix. Or maybe that's simply
    a case of understanding lettershapes better. I don't think so. I spent several
    months painting letters with gouache, and when first drawing by computer, the
    technology naturally at first inhibited. In fact it did for a long time.
  created: '2007-12-04 10:03:15'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: Blandness is a good thing with fonts. Normally fonts are a container of information,
    not a piece of art of themselves (I know this will be disputed by some). To condust
    their primary goal, of smoothly conveying information, they should not draw attention
    to themselves. (At least to the normal reader. A typographer will look at type
    in an altogether different way.)
  created: '2007-12-04 14:03:06'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: A smooth curve is the most efficient curve. It's harder to do, but <em>looks</em>
    more effortless.
  created: '2007-12-04 14:39:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I think this is more complicated than Tim indicates. \r\n\r\nGetting smooth
    curves with the pathway and weight you want is indeed a key challenge in drawing
    with bezier curves. But less smooth curves, and even discontinuity are not necessarily
    design flaws. In the case of the Tim's S it is, because the design calls for a
    smooth curve. But other designs call for less smooth curves. Sometimes these are
    clear corners, but other times they are more complex shapes. If you look at some
    old style ampersands you will see clear examples. Also Dwiggens introduced discontinuities
    where they weren't traditionally. And you can see also these in Kent Lew's beautiful
    Whitman, influenced by Dwiggens. \r\n\r\nIt is less clear, but more accurate to
    say that you shouldn't have discontinuity except where it serves a design purpose.
    And then it can be very good, if the design is good. "
  created: '2007-12-04 14:47:03'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>I think this is more complicated than Tim indicates.</em>\r\n\r\nAh,
    yep. Complicated and \"complex\" too. Like life itself, truly interesting type
    outlines are often not simple or smooth, and contain interesting anomalies, bumps,
    quirks, discontinuities, as part of their design.\r\n\r\nThings can quickly become
    boring when technology makes it easy to put life in the new economy can. It's
    not much fun, but it's efficient.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-04 14:58:08'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Dux, William, good points. My proposal only covers one specific aspect, and
    that is not even obligatory. It may be possible to describe a harmonious curve
    mathematically but it gets more difficult when you try to describe beauty (in
    fact, imperfect faces are perceived as more beautiful). And even then, beauty
    is not the same as good design.\r\n\r\nWilliam, the discontinuities in Dwiggins'
    types you mention are discontinuities in direction. I was talking about discontinuity
    of curvature.\r\n\r\nMy tool is just that - a tool, not a design machine. Just
    like with other tools, it takes a designer to use it and to decide when it makes
    sense.\r\n\r\nNote that it was a direct reply to the initial question, and as
    such I believe it makes sense. Don't put it like I advocate perfect curves. The
    initial question was not about \"truly interesting type outlines\" but about \u201Cterribly
    badly digitized\u201D curves."
  created: '2007-12-04 15:31:36'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: "Blandness is a good thing with (some) fonts.\r\n\r\na presidential campaign
    logo, could smoothly present both the name of the candidate, AND the feeling of
    trust, power etc. nearly-illegible, grungy types can enforce the message. Conveying
    a message 'smoothly' is not an indication of lettershape. sharp types change  visual
    shape at small sizes.\r\n\r\nA letter itself is a container of information and
    has I suppose, a meaning seperate from visual interpretation. Visually representing
    a concept, like it or not adds another layer of meaning however large or small.
    \r\n\r\nI don't think we look at type in *much* more of a different way to the
    uninitiated. The difference being we can more easily articulate ourselves. That
    is to say analyse and describe the psychological effect, as well as the effects
    of functionality. "
  created: '2007-12-04 15:35:41'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: of course blandness itself has a meaning even if it's deliberately evasive
  created: '2007-12-04 15:37:31'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Note that it was a direct reply to the initial question, and as such
    I believe it makes sense. Don\u2019t put it like I advocate perfect curves.</em>\r\n\r\nSorry
    Tim, but your initial post made it&nbsp; l o o k &nbsp;that way, and I was responding
    to that rather than the initial question.\r\n\r\n<em>To condust their primary
    goal, of smoothly conveying information, they should not draw attention to themselves.</em>\r\n\r\nFor
    some kinds of text or content, yes, transparency is key, but it isn't always desirable.
    Some kinds of content benefit from conveying information in less than transparent
    fashion.\r\n\r\n<em>I don\u2019t think we look at type in *much* more of a different
    way to the uninitiated.</em>\r\n\r\nI think the difference in the way typographers,
    type designers and type experts look at type compared to the uninitiated is colossal.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-04 18:58:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Tim, is it possible to describe the continuity of curvature in a simple geometric
    way--such as the relationship between the handles on two sides of a smooth point?
    The handles between two points on segment? '
  created: '2007-12-04 19:38:36'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I think of it like driving a car. You want to ease in and out of curves, slowing
    down and speeding up as needed, so as to make good time while not spilling the
    bags of groceries. "Bad" curves are like an inattentive driver, constantly going
    off course and trying to make corrections.
  created: '2007-12-04 19:51:54'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Thanks again.  \r\n\r\nI'm sort of not interested in what the curve looks
    like, strictly speaking - if that makes any sense in the context of my question.
    How it is constructed matters to me. If there are kinks and quirks in a curve,
    do they work aesthetically, or are they the result of inattention to detail?  Could
    you demonstrate that a typeface was well or poorly drawn by \"reverse engineering\"
    it. I know, ultimately what matters is how it reproduces in a given medium, what
    it looks like and how it \"reads\". My medium is mostly cut vinyl.\r\n\r\nIf a
    typeface were specified for a company that is then going to make thousands signs
    using it, then the quality of the vectors it's made up of may make a significant
    difference to down loading, plotting and weeding time on the one hand and on the
    other perhaps you can just say \"this is good (or bad), and here's why.\"  \r\n
    \r\nFrom the standpoint of designing type myself, (which I really have not done
    much of at all and don't claim anything other than green-horn status) I find the
    templates I make to construct characters can get very complex, as I want to make
    sure everything that needs to stay consistent does and sufficient variety and
    character is allowed and that shapes are constructed in the most elegant and precise
    manner possible. (...for me.)\r\n \r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2007-12-05 00:28:57'
- author:
    name: mr
    picture: 112699
  body: Tim, may I ask how you calculated those curvature plots? Do you have a tool
    that does it? I once tried to do something similar, but my understanding is that
    to calculate curvature you need the curve to be parameterised by its length, and
    I bit of work with the Wolfram Integrator showed that this was impossible (I needed
    to evaluate a *four*page* formula at every point).
  created: '2007-12-06 10:33:30'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "William,\r\n\r\n<cite>Tim, is it possible to describe the continuity of curvature
    in a simple geometric way</cite>\r\n\r\nUnfortunately, not. Of course, curvature
    is defined mathematically and can be calculated relatively easily for any point
    on the outline but you cannot formulate a necessary or sufficient condition in
    terms of handle lengths.\r\n\r\n<cite> The handles between two points on segment?</cite>\r\n\r\nIn
    many cases, in a range between elliptic and slightly hyperelliptic, you can make
    one handle shorter and the other one longer and you will hardly see any change
    in the shape of the curve. I have not made any calculations yet as to where this
    range is and what degree of change in handle ratio is possible within a threshold.\r\n\r\nYou
    can easily test that in FontLab: just draw a slightly hyperelliptic curve element
    and play with the handle lengths, keeping the curve as close as possible to the
    original shape. You will notice there is quite a bit of leeway, there is one redundant
    degree of freedom if you want.\r\n\r\n<cite>as the relationship between the handles
    on two sides of a smooth point?</cite>\r\n\r\nThe above partly answers this question:
    No, the handle ratio on one node is totally irrelevant. It is a common misconception
    that the handle lengths play a great role.\r\n\r\nIf your curve looks un-smooth
    with bumps or dents and you want to fix that you need shift the nodes. Finding
    the right position for the extremes is crucial, the relative handle lengths are
    not so important. Note that in my above example, only the nodes were shifted in
    order to establish continuous curvature. The handles were merely adjusted to compensate
    for this so the curves do not get pushed out or in.\r\n\r\nIf I have some time
    I might put my Brighton presentation on B\xE9zier curves on-line with some comments
    on. That is more detailed and graphic than what I just described.\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-06 10:58:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Tim, that's interesting about the node position being critical. That explains
    why I have found that often the easiest way to smooth out bumps is to slide the
    node while keeping the handles fixed. (Shift key in FontLab.) Then if need be
    I play with the handles, and as a last resort start moving the node at right angles
    to the line. --All the while keeping the original in the mask layer. The Brighton
    presentation sounds interesting. \r\n\r\nThe relative handle length often only
    makes a very subtle difference, but it is sometimes a difference between what
    really looks polished and only OK. The recommendation to equalize handles between
    nodes, which I have read, I find does seem help if an imaginary straight line
    connecting the nodes in question is around 45 degrees, but if closer to horizontal
    or vertical, the curve usually looks better with unequal handles...  "
  created: '2007-12-06 11:22:33'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: "<cite>That explains why I have found that often the easiest way to smooth
    out bumps is to slide the node while keeping the handles fixed.</cite>\r\n\r\nDitto."
  created: '2007-12-06 11:31:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"In many cases, in a range between elliptic and slightly hyperelliptic,
    you can make one handle shorter and the other one longer and you will hardly see
    any change in the shape of the curve.\"\r\n\r\nI have found this seemingly subtle
    difference to be quite critical. For me, if the elongation of one handle is too
    great compared to the other side, the curve becomes dysfunctional. It makes a
    speed change that is too abrupt. It is like driving a car through curves--you
    can drive hard and slam on the breaks before accelerating or you can drive more
    smoothly. You end up with a more frantic line in the 1st case. That is not to
    say this is wrong, it just has a different character.\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-06 16:02:06'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "This has been instructive.\r\n\r\nGood curve:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/asymetric_curve_nodes_6342.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nand..\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Graphic1_6268.jpg]\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2007-12-06 16:26:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">For me, if the elongation of one handle is too great compared to the other
    side, the curve becomes dysfunctional. \r\n\r\nChris, have you found, as I mention
    in my last post, that whether equal handles for nodes at extrema is good depends
    on the relative position of the nodes? \r\n\r\n--For example, with a circle you'd
    want equal handles, and for a narrow ellipse you'd want unequal handles.  "
  created: '2007-12-06 16:31:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I have trouble with the term \"good\" since the change of speed may be desirable
    in some cases. I think of it like pronunciation in different languages. A 'good'
    vowel sound in French will differ from a good one in Italian or German. Context
    is the decision maker for me.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-06 16:33:41'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Right. Good is a bad generalization. The racing line is a good analogy though.
    Whatever the desired effect, it can be created with an ultimate economy\u2014in
    number of points and in extension of handles."
  created: '2007-12-06 17:18:20'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I think that there are such things as best practices - but also that there
    are going to be isolated times and places where you need to break with those rules.
    It's always going to be your own eye that should guide you here. Not a a rulebook.
  created: '2007-12-07 17:29:06'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<cite>It\u2019s always going to be your own eye that should guide you here.
    Not a a rulebook.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut what if you find out that your eye follows
    certain rules?"
  created: '2007-12-07 18:39:43'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Russell,\r\n\r\nI don't know if the latest plotters still have this limitation,
    but years ago there needed to be some attention to the location of the outlines'
    start points, because the plotter started cutting (or drawing) the letter from
    that point, and finished there as well. Origin placement has different meanings
    when it comes to other kinds of digital imaging, but for plotters, there can be
    a significant time waste if start points are not in ideal locations. \r\n\r\nThis
    is an element of outline quality if you use a plotter, but may not have been on
    anyone's radar for years; I think origin point location is essential for TrueType
    hinting, but not for the same reason. \r\n\r\nEfficiency is probably something
    else that would improve plotting times; fewer points, smoother outlines. But that
    doesn't mean the appearance of the letters or art is \"smooth\" or slick or bland;
    even rustic or \"antiqued\" letters can be digitized efficiently. I think there
    was a typeface by Spiekermann that had rounded corners for the speed benefit in
    plotting; more continuous curves might give a speed advantage, but you can watch
    your plotter to see if sharp corners really slow things down. If they do, you
    can surmise that sans faces are quicker to plot; serifs add a lot of extra direction
    changes.\r\n\r\nRe: visual smoothness and endpoints vs. handles; both can have
    a visible effect on the \"rightness\" of your curve; I think it's a mistake to
    say that either endpoint location OR handle length is more important to getting
    a good curve. Plenty of times I slide both handles and the endpoint back and forth
    to get the curve right. See Mundo Italics for lots of this. \r\n\r\nTim, this
    kind of fiddling is the exact thing you talked about in Brighton; I have spent
    so much time messing with these shapes precisely because the beziers aren't behaving
    well and they need firm control to get them to do what you want. They can easily
    influence your results. "
  created: '2007-12-07 23:01:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">what if you find out that your eye follows certain rules?\r\n\r\nI think
    everyone in this thread agrees that what is a \"good\" curve depends on context.
    But in context there are, as Tim says such things as bad curves, and his \"before\"
    S shows them. There is a certain kind of lumpiness that arises from clumsy Bezier
    curves, a kind of badness which would not arise with handwritten or draw letters.
    And in a letter with these lumpy Bezier curves side by side with an improved version
    almost everyone would say the improved version looks better. So yes, there is
    such a thing as good curves. "
  created: '2007-12-08 02:15:50'
- author:
    name: fonthausen
    picture: 110499
  body: "A curve is to me like the mimic/behaviour of an actor in a play. It adds
    something to the role, or it can be disrupting, smooth or ...\r\nIn a play, actors
    interact, like characters do. \r\n\r\nTo put it short, the micro level (character/mood)
    within a typeface is interacting with the macro level (character/mood), creating
    a story, that is your typeface.\r\n\r\nThis can even mean, that both levels can
    even differ very much in their story(telling), but end up in a perfect/interesting
    play.\r\n\r\nWere you put your extremepoints is crucial. A curve is not an outline
    between two points. It has a start and an end.\r\n\r\n\r\n\u2013 Jacques\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-10 12:10:11'
date: '2007-12-03 18:19:52'
title: What constitutes a "bad curve"?

---
