---
author:
  name: david h
  picture: 110928
body: "Today is the first night..so Happy   <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hanukkah\">Hanukkah</a>.Eat
  a lot of latkes and sufganiyot  :) \r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My wife brought home lots of potatoes and onions and asked me if we had applesauce
    and sour cream so I think I know what she is up to :-) Now if I could get some
    real gelt out of the deal! \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-04 20:46:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Yeah, we''re celebrating the great event too,in spite of what that ignoramus
    [[http://www.slate.com/id/2179045/|Christopher Hitchens]] has to say about it. '
  created: '2007-12-04 20:48:17'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: No apple sauce :( Love me some latkes though.
  created: '2007-12-04 22:59:17'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "This is how we celebrate Seattle style... http://www.jonessoda.com/gifs7/happychanukahpak.jpg
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-04 23:15:45'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I'm holding out for my mother's latkes on saturday night, which she serves
    with sour cream and a dollop of caviar (nothing but the best). Chappy Chanukah
    all.
  created: '2007-12-05 00:19:59'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Happy Hanukkah!
  created: '2007-12-05 00:37:01'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Simon, your link gives us bupkiss.\r\n\r\nHappy Hannukah!"
  created: '2007-12-05 01:34:53'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: Hag Sameach from Edmonton!
  created: '2007-12-05 01:37:10'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Dig out that dreidel and give 'er a spin....  ;-)
  created: '2007-12-05 01:44:07'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Simon, your link gives us bupkiss.\r\n\r\nServer may be under water. Try
    this...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.jonessoda.com/files/holiday_2007.php "
  created: '2007-12-05 02:03:32'
- author:
    name: boardman
    picture: 110337
  body: "And Happy Chanukah from Winnipeg. I made my own applesauce and the latkes
    rocked. A sweet eight days.\r\n\r\nTypophile-relevant postscript: Chanukah is
    an acronym (in Hebrew) for \"Light candles as determined by House of Hillel\".
    But the actual derivation is up for grabs."
  created: '2007-12-05 03:00:53'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "It is an acronym indeed:\r\n\r\nHeit\r\nNerot\r\nVehalaha\r\nKeBeit\r\nHillel,\r\n\r\n...
    but a proper word first:\r\n\r\n\"Az egmor beshir mizmor HANUKAT hamizbeah...\""
  created: '2007-12-05 03:19:24'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: 'EK -- Are you related to Moshe Kaplinsky? '
  created: '2007-12-05 03:32:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">But the actual derivation is up for grabs.\r\n\r\nChanukah is a Hebrew word
    meaning 'dedication' or 'inauguration', and refers to the  re-dedication of the
    altar of the Temple in Jerusalem (in 164 BCE), as the song EK quotes says. The
    acronym is a fanciful \"midrash\" or interpretation. The root of the word is Chet
    Nun Kaf, and appears in other words meaning 'inaugurate,' 'train,' and 'educate'.\r\n\r\nThat
    is your lesson for today. Now children, you can go back to your dreidel and chocolate
    coins :)     "
  created: '2007-12-05 03:45:33'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> The root of the word is Chet Nun Kaf, and appears...\r\n\r\n11 times (the
    Hebrew Bible)"
  created: '2007-12-05 04:01:01'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "EK, boardman, William, and David, I am always fascinated by little linguistic
    tidbits like these.\r\n\r\nHappy Hanukkah, all!"
  created: '2007-12-05 04:07:42'
- author:
    name: vanina
    picture: 113631
  body: 'Some kid on the street was handing out menoras and comes up to me saying
    "Miss, are you Jewish?" Jewish or not I took one of his menoras and ceremonially
    lit it with my roommate. I was moved by the back of the box: "There are sacred
    prayers written on this box. Please treat it appropriately." We''ve lost this
    notion in the West, I think... '
  created: '2007-12-05 04:39:20'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Vanina, he was asking because Jews are not supposed to proslytize, so he
    wanted to make sure you were Jewish before handing you a menorah. Far as I know
    there's nothing wrong with a non-Jew accepting a menorah and lighting it tho.
    I'm Jewish and I accidentally took communion once. Long story.\r\n\r\n(Jews for
    Jesus DO proslytize which is one of many many reasons I don't think they should
    call themselves Jews. Accepting Jesus as the messiah is another big reason.)"
  created: '2007-12-05 04:52:57'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: 'David: I am not...'
  created: '2007-12-05 05:23:47'
- author:
    name: PL
    picture: 111316
  body: "Patty,  Its hard to say Jews are not supposed to proselytize - without adding
    slight modifier. We don't proselytize to make people into Jews, but we do \"proselytize\"
    a vision and teaching for all humanity. As far as \"Jews for Jesus\" not being
    Jewish. The Jewish people are a family, if they are Jewish than they are Jewish
    even if they don't profess Judaism. But the fact is most of \"J for J\" are simply
    not Jewish. Happy Hanukkah!\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-05 05:34:08'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: My understanding of proselytizing is that it is an attempt to convert. That
    is different from trying to promote your ideas or vision.
  created: '2007-12-05 05:57:16'
- author:
    name: PL
    picture: 111316
  body: "Is there a difference?\r\n\r\nProselytize:\r\nconvert or attempt to convert
    (someone) from one religion, belief, or opinion to another. \r\n(New Oxford American
    Dictionary)"
  created: '2007-12-05 06:24:51'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Huge difference! Ever hear of Jewish missionaries? Didn't think so.
  created: '2007-12-05 14:38:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"We\u2019ve lost this notion in the West, I think\"\r\n\r\nVanina, I think
    it is not only in the West. I fear that people all over the world have let their
    respect for different cultures slip into a sense of fear. The sad part is that
    most people evrywhere are good in their hearts but overreact to the actions of
    a minority of extremists of all kinds who always make the most noise. Perhaps
    today's younger generation will overcome that and show us we can live in the same
    world in peace.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-05 14:45:11'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Vanina, he was asking because Jews are not supposed to proslytize, so
    he wanted to make sure you were Jewish before handing you a menorah.</em>\r\n\r\nSo
    that's why... Thanks for explaining, Patty. I've often been asked as well, and
    always wondered about it.  :-)\r\n\r\nPL, I love your icon! I used to have tons
    of Simpsons icons in older versions of the Mac OS!  :-)"
  created: '2007-12-05 18:44:58'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Ricardo - it means you look like you *could* be Jewish ;-) They don't go up
    to just anybody.
  created: '2007-12-05 18:57:11'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Yeah, Patty, I suspected that as well. ;-D
  created: '2007-12-05 23:42:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My favorite line from the old Beatles Sgt Peppers movie is when the head
    Blue Meanie says, \"But he doesn't look Bluish.\"\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-06 00:22:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The story on Jews and proselytizing is rather long and complicated, as with
    everything in this nearly 4000 year long history. \r\n\r\nHillel (about 30 BCE)
    said \"Love all your fellow creatures and bring them near to the Torah.\" This
    indicated a positive desire to convert others to Judaism. And the famous story
    of a non-Jew saying he would convert if Hillel could tell the whole Torah while
    standing on one foot also indicates a desire to proselytize. The statement in
    the New Testament about how far the Pharisees would go to make a convert is probably
    based on reality.   \r\n\r\nThis changed with the destruction of the Temple in
    70 CE, when the Romans forbid Jews wfrom proselytizing, under pain of death. Though
    this situation changed, the precariousness of Jewish security did not, and the
    policy became not to proselytize, and to warn any potential convert of the difficult
    conditions for Jews--while welcoming converts as full Jews, if they still wanted
    to convert. \r\n\r\nThere it remained until after the holocaust and the establishment
    of the state of Israel. In Israel, with its tinderbox of religious conflict, I
    believe all proselytizing by any religion is forbidden. In the US it has been
    different. The US became very tolerant and accepting to Jews, and intermarriage
    has increased greatly. This is to the point where I have read that in the US there
    will soon be as many people with one Jewish parent as two. \r\n\r\nIn response
    to this situation, in 1978 the then head of the Reform movement, the late Alexander
    Schindler, changed this traditional policy and urged \"outreach\" to the spouses
    of Jews, inviting them to learn more about Judaism, with bring them close to Judaism,
    and converting more of them. The invitation was also out to anyone not associated
    with a religious movement. \r\n\r\nSo it is still true that Jews will not approach
    anyone who has another religious affiliation about converting, but the invitation
    is there to others by the Reform movement. \r\n\r\nThere is an umbrella organization
    dealing with these issues, [[http://joi.org/|The Jewish Outreach Institute.]]"
  created: '2007-12-06 00:42:14'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I guess I can't see that anyone has the right to say their truth is \"truthier\"
    than anyone else's, or that their path is any more righteous. Hence I find proselytizing
    basically abhorrent, whether it is to increase one's numbers, to spread one's
    word, or to tame the savages.\r\n\r\nIt was shocking to travel to a remote village
    in Guatemala and see an enormous Seventh Day Adventist church that dwarfed every
    other building in the town. Heartening, in another village in Chiapas, Mexico,
    to learn that the Mayans had ejected the bishop and basically taken over the church
    for their indigenous religious rituals, into which they incorporated the left-behind
    saint figures, along with rose petals, incense, and soda bottles."
  created: '2007-12-06 00:55:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I guess I can\u2019t see that anyone has the right to say their truth is
    \u201Ctruthier\u201D than anyone else\u2019s, or that their path is any more righteous.\r\n\r\nI
    had an interesting discussion with a teacher of political science, who said his
    students regularly expressed the same sentiments. So he asked them about female
    circumcision, or mutilation. They said, \"No, that's just wrong.\" So their moral
    and cultural relativism ended there. \r\n\r\nSo Patty, do you think that the beliefs
    of those who advocate this practice, abhorrent to most of us, including me, is
    just as valid as your own views? Or is your truth better than theirs? "
  created: '2007-12-06 01:23:55'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "William, interestingly there was just a Law & Order on that, and polygamy.\r\n\r\nI
    think there is more than one kind of truth.\r\n\r\nYou can find examples of female
    subjugation in most major religions. I think female circumcision is wrong but
    feel equally that women should not have to cover themselves from head to toe or
    hide away behind louvered windows. Or wear wigs, or be lashed for being the victim
    of a gang rape. Or have to shave their head and go live in a cloister after their
    husband dies. I judge these religious practices from what I consider a universal
    moral and ethical standpoint, not from the standpoint that my religion is any
    better or morally superior.\r\n\r\nMost of these barbaric practices stem from
    the idea that women pose a threat \u2014 that if women are not mutilated, hidden
    away, de-sexed, or worse that men will not be able to control themselves. This
    is a pretty curious state of affairs, don't you think?"
  created: '2007-12-06 01:40:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "> I consider a universal moral and ethical standpoint, not from the standpoint
    that my religion is any better or morally superior.\r\n\r\nAh, *you* consider
    it a universal moral standpoint. But they think you are completely wrong, and
    the universal moral standpoint, which is taught by their religion, is that women
    should obey their husbands, and that this is part of nature and you are just wanting
    to impose your despicable feminist views on them under the guise of universality.
    And your views result in the debasement of women and men alike, and the dissolution
    of the family we see in the West. \r\n\r\nI agree with you, not them, on the substance
    of the issue. But I don't think you can consistently be a relativist and advocate
    a universal morality. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-06 01:47:09'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Uhm. The use of "despicable" is a little strong. Good conversation, but let's
    not let it spin out of control.
  created: '2007-12-06 01:59:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Tiffany, I was just more or less repeating what you can read are views common
    in many parts of the world. I was just using some of the vehement language--though
    a lot milder than what is actually said--to get across that this is a real life
    issue now, around the world, that people feel very strongly about, and are very
    divided on. \r\n\r\nI don't agree with the anti-feminists, but my point is that
    relativism doesn't get you anywhere in having a respectful discussion with those
    you disagree with on ethical principles. \r\n\r\nI do think you can get somewhere
    if you start with the premise that that are some universal principles, but we
    can't be so certain about what they are in detail. We need to look not only what
    is declared, but what the consequences of beliefs are for the welfare or misery
    of society. If we can start by agreeing on that as some kind of test, then we
    can discuss with those we disagree with. But that's not relativism. \r\n\r\nSome
    views are truer than others, but we can't be so sure we are in possession of the
    truth, and the other person is wrong. It may be the other way round. That kind
    of humility is the best basis of tolerance, not relativism, in my view. "
  created: '2007-12-06 02:11:20'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Whether or not religion is necessary - well I'm not going to weigh in on
    that. But in an increasingly globalized world, where people of many faiths coexist,
    it does become necessary \u2014 I think \u2014\_for there to be an ethical standard
    that is theoretically independent of any religion and it's beliefs or practices.
    Separation of church and state, as we <em>used</em> to have in this country. Spoken
    like a true apostate.\r\n\r\nI acknowledge that my point of view could be seen
    as \"convert(ing) or attempt(ing) to convert (someone) from one religion, belief,
    or opinion to another\". But I am just expressing my opinion, obviously not a
    popular one in today's political environment."
  created: '2007-12-06 02:13:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">not a popular one in today\u2019s political environment.\r\n\r\nPatty, I
    would have to check polls to be on firmer grounds, but I think our beliefs in
    tolerance and equality for women are dominant in the US--probably two thirds or
    more agree. Those who want in one way or another to impose their religious beliefs
    on the rest of the nation--such as by kicking the teaching of evolution out of
    the schools--are significant minority, but still a minority nationwide.\r\n\r\nBut
    imposition of views, and arguing for them are two different things. If a Christian
    wants to proselytize me, it doesn't bother me so long as I can proselytize him
    back and point out the error of his ways. But at that point for some reason they
    always lose interest in talking about religion :) \r\n\r\nps (edit) \r\n\r\nAccording
    to [[http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2004/11/22/opinion/polls/main657083.shtml|this
    poll in 2004]]  a majority of Americans reject evolution (depressing), but do
    not want to kick teaching of it out of the schools (encouraging). Only about a
    quarter want it booted out of the schools, it seems. According to [[http://www.commondreams.org/news2000/0310-02.htm|another
    poll in 2000]] that tried to get deeper in to people's attitudes, about 20% wanted
    to kick evolution out of the schools. The Liberal 'People for the American Way',
    who commissioned the poll claim that it indicates \"that most Americans believe
    that God created evolution.\""
  created: '2007-12-06 02:52:27'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: Will it take a miracle to make this thread last eight days?
  created: '2007-12-06 05:28:40'
- author:
    name: David Sudweeks
    picture: 112594
  body: Great question. Of course it would be nothing fancy for a God of miracles
    to accomplish. Happy Chanukah everyone!
  created: '2007-12-06 05:45:42'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Wow, this discussion has gotten really interesting!\r\n\r\n<em>Spoken like
    a true apostate.</em>\r\n\r\nThree cheers for apostasy! I, for one, am all for
    separation of church and state.\r\n\r\n<em>But in an increasingly globalized world,
    where people of many faiths coexist, it does become necessary \u2014 I think \u2014
    for there to be an ethical standard that is theoretically independent of any religion
    and it\u2019s beliefs or practices.</em>\r\n\r\nProbably just as hard -- sadly
    -- to achieve in real life as what Chris said about everyone living in the same
    world in peace. I think many people have a hard time separating morals or ethics
    from a belief in a god or religion that imparts a/The/their moral or ethical code...
    (Spoken like a true atheist.)"
  created: '2007-12-06 07:04:02'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "Don't care much for Hitchens, he's been hanging with the wrong crowd for
    a little too long. I'd much prefer Dawkins.\r\nOn a lighter note I recently received
    a DVD, <em>The Hebrew Hammer</em>, I ordered as a birthday present for my one
    quarter jewish friend.\r\n\r\nFrom the synopsis:\r\nTHE HEBREW HAMMER is a holiday
    movie that is most definitely not for kids. Adam Goldberg stars as Mordechai Jefferson
    Carver, also known as the Hebrew Hammer, a private detective who has an overbearing
    mother (Nora Dunn) and a propensity to whine when things get difficult. He is
    hired by Bloomenbergensteinthal (Peter Coyote), chief of the Jewish Justice League,
    to prevent Damian Claus (Andy Dick) from killing Hanukkah. The Semitic Stallion
    seeks out help in the form of the Kwanzaa Liberation Front, headed by Mohammed
    Ali (Mario Van Peebles in a great afro), while also falling for the JJL chief's
    daughter, Esther (Judy Greer). Damian, who has his father brutally murdered by
    reindeer, Santa (Richard Riehle), is supported by his right-hand man, low-grade
    hood Tiny Tim (Sean Whalen). It's hard to tell which side Jamal is on--but this
    foul-mouthed decadent elf is played by Tony Cox, who handles a similar role in
    the later BAD SANTA. The ultimate battle between good and evil awaits in this
    riotous Jewxploitation film that never met a stereotype or offensive joke it didn't
    like.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-06 13:25:21'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I think that both Hitchens and Dawkins are just as bad as the people they
    are against. To me, they both come across as loud and angry, and well\u2026 evangelical.
    But between the two, I'm for Dawkins, in no small part because Dawkins' wife is
    awesome. But her first husband was even cooler ;-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-06 13:52:05'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: Loud and angry and against creationism just as bad as loud and angry and in
    favour of creationism? That can't be, Dan.
  created: '2007-12-06 14:26:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Three cheers for apostasy! I, for one, am all for separation of church and
    state.\r\n\r\nPlenty of religious people in the US, including both Jews and Christians,
    are strong advocates in favor of the separation of religion and state. The head
    of [[http://www.au.org/site/PageServer|Americans United for the Separation of
    Church and State]] is a Protestant clergyman. \r\n\r\nThe problem with anti-religious
    zealots is that they are way too sure of themselves--which is exactly what is
    bad about religious zealots. \r\n\r\nAlso Hitchens' divide of liberal, tolerant
    atheists on one side and narrow-minded, bigotted religious people on the other
    is historically false. Atheist Communist fanatics like Stalin killed people in
    massive numbers, just as did religious fanatics. And there have been plenty of
    humane and tolerant religious leaders. \r\n\r\nThe key evil is fanaticism, not
    whether you are religious or anti-religious.  "
  created: '2007-12-06 15:35:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Keeping this thread going for 8 days will not need a miracle after all :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-06 15:39:44'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: 'Hard to say atheism inspired Stalin though. '
  created: '2007-12-06 15:46:43'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "><em>Loud and angry</em>\r\n\r\n\u2026when I hear someone who is loud and
    angry, it just turns my head off."
  created: '2007-12-06 15:48:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Hard to say atheism inspired Stalin though.\r\nNot really. Stalin was pursuing
    a vision of a Marxist utopia, of which atheism was part and parcel. Killing off
    religion was an important part of creating the utopia. I'm not saying that you
    have to be a fanatic if you are a socialist and atheist; not at all. But the fact
    is that Stalin was driven by an atheist ideology.\r\n\r\nYou can be a fanatic
    about anything, even type :)  "
  created: '2007-12-06 15:53:11'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Imagine there's no countries\r\nIt isn't hard to do\r\nNothing to kill or
    die for\r\nAnd no religion too\r\nImagine all the people\r\nLiving life in peace...\r\n\r\nJust
    2 days short of the 27th anniversary of his death his words still ring true."
  created: '2007-12-06 15:56:53'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "William:  <cite> Not really. Stalin was pursuing a vision of a Marxist utopia,
    of which atheism was part and parcel. Killing off religion was an important part
    of creating the utopia. I\u2019m not saying that you have to be a fanatic if you
    are a socialist and atheist; not at all. But the fact is that Stalin was driven
    by an atheist ideology.</cite> \r\n\r\nWilliam, thats's like the religious version
    of the <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chewbacca_Defense\">Chewbacca defense</a>."
  created: '2007-12-06 16:40:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Stalin was pursuing a vision of a Marxist utopia, of which atheism was
    part and parcel. Killing off religion was an important part of creating the utopia.
    \"\r\n\r\nThat  is a tidy intellectual way to explain it. You may be closer with
    Marx or Trotsky with a philosophical reasoning. I don't buy it one bit with Stalin.
    Stalin, in my thinking, was just power-hungry. Eliminating the church was just
    his way of eliminating a competing power to his own. He even got rid of his competition
    within the Marxist fold and none too gently, either.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-06 16:44:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Fredo, my point was that anti-religious ideals, as well as religious ones,
    have inspired mass murder. It seems to me the example of Stalin is right on point,
    and not a distraction or confusion. '
  created: '2007-12-06 17:04:39'
- author:
    name: vanina
    picture: 113631
  body: ">Vanina, I think it is not only in the West. I fear that people all over
    the world have let their respect for different cultures slip into a sense of fear.
    The sad part is that most people evrywhere are good in their hearts but overreact
    to the actions of a minority of extremists of all kinds who always make the most
    noise. Perhaps today\u2019s younger generation will overcome that and show us
    we can live in the same world in peace.\r\n\r\nThis is really beautiful, and I
    long for the same peace too. I was actually referring (alas, unclearly) the notion
    that a shabby cardboard box is holy because a prayer has been inked onto it...
    That you should treat the box with respect, though the registration is quite a
    bit off? : ) How is one to dispose of such an object? And there's the related
    notion that sacred objects should be kept at shoulder level or above. Sweet stuff. "
  created: '2007-12-06 17:11:06'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>The problem with anti-religious zealots is that they are way too sure
    of themselves\u2014which is exactly what is bad about religious zealots.</em>\r\n\r\nWith
    you all the way on that, William. Not only are they way too sure of themselves,
    they are out to convert people, too!"
  created: '2007-12-06 17:41:20'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Fredo, my point was that anti-religious ideals, as well as religious
    ones, have inspired mass murder. It seems to me the example of Stalin is right
    on point\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nLots of things inspire violence. Pointing at mass
    murder during a conversation about atheism is just a cheap trick religious people
    use to avoid logical conversations about religion and atheism. It\u2019s similar
    to the way Arabs compare the Israelis to Nazis to break down logical discussion
    about Israel and Palestine."
  created: '2007-12-06 17:50:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Pointing at mass murder during a conversation about atheism is just a cheap
    trick religious people use to avoid logical conversations about religion and atheism.\r\n\r\nNo,
    it's not a cheap trick, it was on point, the point being that tolerance, kindness
    and generosity do not only lie on the side of the atheists, as Hitchens would
    have it. There is a lot of tolerance and kindness on the side of some religious
    people, and a lot of intolerance and viciousness in some atheists--and visa versa.
    And, on the issue Fredo brought up, atheist ideals have actually inspired evil,
    as have religious ideals. Do you disagree?\r\n\r\nI am not avoiding a logical
    conversation about religion and atheism, I am engaging in it. I taught logic for
    some years and do have a grasp of what is good logic, though I am certainly capable
    of falling down and being illogical. If I have made a logical error, tell me what
    it is. "
  created: '2007-12-06 18:07:26'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> the notion that a shabby cardboard box is holy because a prayer has been
    inked onto it... That you should treat the box with respect, though the registration
    is quite a bit off? : ) How is one to dispose of such an object?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nThis
    is based on  Deuteronomy 12:2-4 : You shall utterly destroy all the places where
    the nations that you shall possess worshipped their gods\u2026 and obliterate
    their names from that place.\_ You shall not do so to the Lord, your G-d.\r\n\r\n\r\nAnd
    read that: <a href=\"http://www.chabad.org/library/article_cdo/aid/475304/jewish/Proper-Disposal-of-Holy-Objects.htm\">Proper
    Disposal of Holy Objects (Chabad)</a>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-06 18:08:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "David, I resent Chabad sending me, unsolicited, a Jewish calendar that pushes
    their viewpoint, and then telling me I can't throw it away because it contains
    sacred verses with God's name. \r\n\r\nTo me this is a kind of piety that stinks.
    \r\n\r\nI am not saying this about Chabad generally, just this practice. "
  created: '2007-12-06 18:17:20'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Bill, as you know, we have a lot of labels: Ultra-Orthodox, Modern Orthodox,
    Centrist Orthodox, Hassidic, Yeshivish,Reforms,etc; Each Rabbi & his court and
    his rules, interpretation. \r\n\r\nI think that is more about  the   inside....what
    do you feel inside; that is why, I can't say you're right or wrong, or they're
    right or wrong. \r\n\r\nonce I met Hagaon Rabbi  <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yitzchak_Kadouri\">Yitzchak
    Kadouri</a>, and   was blessed  by him; one might say: wrong, the other -- right;
    the third -- why? etc etc. So, I think that the important thing is: what do you
    feel inside you. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-06 18:51:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "David, I don't have a problem with any level of observance of ritual, or
    with disagreements about what should be done. What I do have a problem with is
    being unethical, or violating your own standards in the act of pushing them on
    others. \r\n\r\nIf they are so concerned with God's name being thrown in the trash,
    then they shouldn't send it to somebody who doesn't ask, because that will certainly
    happen. The practice invites desecration by their own standards and so is bad
    by their own standards. \r\n\r\nThat they do it as part of proselytizing--to other
    Jews to become Jewish their way--has a bad odor as they are violating their own
    standards, and not being respectful of others as well. It annoys me because I
    am being put upon. I have to either keep the calendar, which I don't want (and
    has lousy graphic design!) or I have to throw it out, which I feel guilty doing
    because I do like treating genuine religious objects with respect. I have thrown
    them out anyway, for years, feeling like they are doing a mean trick--a kind of
    'chilul hashem' in itself. Fortunately, I didn't get one this year. \r\n\r\nThe
    Chabad people I have met I have found to be charming people. I always feel a sense
    of relief because they are authentically Jewish, even though not the way I would
    choose, whereas so many American Jews are sadly ignorant of their traditions. "
  created: '2007-12-06 19:39:42'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: You know what the Rav Shach said ...
  created: '2007-12-06 19:40:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Most people, most organizations, do seasonally-specific events.\r\nMid-winter
    is a good opportunity.\r\nEvery year at this time consumerism and religion bash
    away for hearts, minds, and money.\r\nPlenty to decry, as cynics, atheists, and
    scrooges join the fray."
  created: '2007-12-06 19:45:05'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> If they are so concerned with God\u2019s name being thrown in the trash,
    then they shouldn\u2019t send it to somebody who doesn\u2019t ask, because that
    will certainly happen. \r\n\r\nGood point. Maybe we need to ask them about that
    (Technically -- this is mission impossible to print with & without God's name,
    and to send it to the right person. I guess they take the 'risk'). "
  created: '2007-12-06 20:01:12'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>I have thrown them out anyway, for years, feeling like they are doing
    a mean trick</cite>\r\n\r\nI also trash those group emails that tell you if you
    don't send it to everyone you know in the next 30 seconds you will have bad luck
    the rest of your life. Treat it the same way, it is no more sacred. Objects themselves
    are not sacred, it is the meaning we assign to them. I was cleaning my apartment
    once with a friend and she picked up a dust-covered dutch wooden shoe with beaded
    flowers in it. Said, \"This can go, no?\" No! It was one of the last things I
    ever got from my grandmother, she beaded flowers to help her arthritis. That object
    to me is sacred, to someone else it's kitsch. I probably couldn't give it away
    on eBay.\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-06 20:16:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">at this time consumerism and religion bash away for hearts, minds, and money.
    \r\n\r\nThe perennial issue for Jews is a bit different: how to relate to the
    Christian majority, and one of their central holidays, which they have made very
    fun. In a way this issue is very appropriate, since that war over two thousand
    years ago, whose victory Chanukah celebrates, was about assimilation... \r\n\r\nChris,
    I'm sorry I missed your comment on Stalin vs Marx. I got my picture of Stalin
    from an NPR interview with the [[http://www.amazon.com/Stalin-Court-Simon-Sebag-Montefiore/dp/1400076781/ref=pd_bbs_sr_2?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1196972288&sr=8-2|author
    of this biography of Stalin]]. He portrayed Stalin and his circle not only as
    unbelievably brutal, and devoted to brutality, but also as driven by the dogmatic
    conviction of the \"true believer\". The whole lot of them--30 or so of the inner
    circle--believed that they could get heaven on earth if they just killed enough
    people. The 'true believer' aspect explains how many behaved in the show trials,
    which otherwise is inexplicable. Yes, mind-bogglingly brutal, but also a true
    fanatic. \r\n\r\nA contrast is Marcos, who it seems was just a crook, in it for
    the money. The fanatics are much worse. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-06 20:30:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Patty,\r\nThe withered old drawings my kids made in preschool are my prized
    possessions--cracked library paste, faded crayola and all.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-06 20:31:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Yes, objects that remind us of vanished love are unique treasures. Our hours
    and years with those who have passed on, the acts of love between us as parents
    and our small children, rushing into the past. Fading memories, a mystery we can't
    wrap our minds around, but emotions suddenly brought back by a photograph, an
    object...
  created: '2007-12-06 20:49:25'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Chris - my parents' hallway is the only permanent gallery of my art. I gotta
    say, I showed a lot of promise at 4.\r\n\r\nHere's one example (an invite I drew
    for my 4th b-day which I recycled in  2006)\r\n\r\nNote the movement! The gesture!
    The attention to detail!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/partyweb06_4461.jpg]"
  created: '2007-12-06 20:51:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I love it, Patty! Who could resist coming to that party!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-06 22:09:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "David,\r\nDarn good proportions for a 4-year-old!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-06 22:10:24'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Nice segue from genocide to childhood drawings. Maybe we can keep this thread
    going for 5 more days.
  created: '2007-12-06 23:07:13'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>how to relate to the Christian majority, and one of their central holidays,
    which they have made very fun</em>\r\n\r\nThe holiday to which they not-so-coincidentally
    tacked on a lot of older pagan rituals (i.e., the Winter Solstice celebration)?
    :-)"
  created: '2007-12-06 23:15:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I guess that makes me an old Pagan :-)\r\n\r\nHappy Winter Solstice to one
    and all!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-07 01:46:43'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Cheers to that, Chris!
  created: '2007-12-07 02:51:29'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Chris, it's better to be an old pagan than a dead pagan....  ;-)\r\n\r\n(signed)\r\nYour
    friendly neighbourhood Zen Druid"
  created: '2007-12-07 02:58:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I have been close to being a dead pagan too :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-07 03:10:49'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "William: <cite>atheist ideals have actually inspired evil</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm
    sorry but NOT believing in God hasn't inspired anyone to kill so far. <em>It's
    not a set of ideals</em>, you see. If you think about it, it's pretty hard to
    go around doing things in  the name of not God. Doesn't quite have that oompf
    to it."
  created: '2007-12-07 10:10:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I\u2019m sorry but NOT believing in God hasn\u2019t inspired anyone to kill
    so far.\r\n\r\nFredo, it actually has. Atheism has been an important part of a
    set of ideals, and these drove political movements, in particular Marxism-Leninism.
    A key part of this aggressive version of atheism was the view that religion was
    the enemy of social progress, and had to be violently suppressed, if necessary.
    Atheism doesn't *necessarily* support and drive such aggressive ideals, but it
    did. \r\n\r\nThe same potential to be used for good or evil is true of belief
    in God. It can be associated with peaceful and genial views of how to live, or
    cruel aggressive views. \r\n\r\nI will recount the intellectual history for you
    later, but I should get to work kerning now!  "
  created: '2007-12-07 13:25:38'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: So... typography?
  created: '2007-12-07 13:50:28'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "\u2026actually\u2026\r\n\r\nHappy Hanukkah\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2007-12-07 16:03:50'
- author:
    name: PL
    picture: 111316
  body: "William, Patty, Vavina and all,\r\n\r\nI think this thread was a perfect
    tribute to Hanukkah which was spurned on by Vavina's question about holy typography!\r\nHanukkah
    can be seen as the triumph of ideological freedom over political oppression. The
    greeks wanted everyone to accept their monolithic views, and the Jews refused.\r\nSweet!\r\n\r\nWilliam,
    its nice to hear that you can tolerate Chabad even if you resent their actions.
    I want to give you a reason why you may be able to come to term with their actions
    as well. For Jews who accept \"the Code of Jewish Law\", you cannot destroy any
    writings which are \"holy\". Vavina, that means jews will keep all the holy writings
    and never throw any of them out. Sometimes they are kept in a room called a \"geniza\"
    or sometimes they are buried. There are differing opinions on when writings become
    \"holy\". One opinion is the moment the ink hits the paper and it spells out \"holy\"
    writings its considered holy. The other opinion is that writing only becomes \"holy\"
    when it is read and used for a \"holy\" purpose. I think the typophiles can think
    about that typo-philosophy during this holiday (what side are you?) Anyways, Chabad
    believes that although there may be some risk that someone would mess with the
    \"holy\" writings. The sad state of american jews being lost to our family through
    apathy and ignorance is so great that they send and give these out in hopes that
    it will make a difference. If you dont use their menorah and prayer box, then
    you can rely on the second opinion - it is not holy at all. Just throw it away,
    or maybe give it to someone who might want it, and make it holy.\r\n\r\nhappy
    Hannukah!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-07 20:31:38'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "From the \"what were they thinking?\" department: The sushi restaurant next
    door is advertising their Hanukkah Maki which contains, among other ingredients,
    shrimp tempura. I'm surprised they didn't throw some pork in there too while they
    were at it.\r\n\r\nPsachyah, thanks for the explanation. I studied Kabbalah at
    the local Jewish center and we learned about the magic of the written words, the
    black fire and white fire of the letters on the page. It was interesting both
    from a spiritual standpoint and also from the standpoint of someone who values
    type, letters, writing. The parsing of the texts and the letter/wordplay was fascinating
    to me, unlocking deep and ancient mysteries. I can see how people can dedicate
    their lives to reading the Torah.\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-08 03:35:52'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>The sushi restaurant next door is advertising their Hanukkah Maki which
    contains, among other ingredients, shrimp tempura. </em>\r\n\r\nOy.\r\n\r\nMy
    excessively/compulsively hardcore kosher ex-mother-in-law thought there was absolutely
    nothing wrong with devouring multiple shrimp cocktails at expensive restaurants.
    Perhaps such folks subscribe to the \"what happens in the restaurant stays in
    the restaurant\" philosophy?  ;-)\r\n\r\n(And if one orders Hanukkah Maki, shouldn't
    you get the appropriate number of pieces for that evening, so you can match 'em
    up with the candles for that evening?)"
  created: '2007-12-08 04:55:00'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "hhhhh\r\n aaaa\r\n  ppp\r\n   pp\r\n    y\r\n\r\nhhhhhhhh\r\n aaaaaaa\r\n
    \ nnnnnn\r\n   uuuuu\r\n    kkkk\r\n     kkk\r\n      aa\r\n       h\r\n\r\n       !"
  created: '2007-12-08 05:32:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Well, the Latkes were good, even if my goy hands schreadded the potatoes
    and added a tad of Greek flavoring :-)\r\nMy wife broke up laughing when I put
    the Mannorah on top of the pig-shaped trivot :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-08 13:55:40'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Patty, Linda, Chris... too funny!  :-D
  created: '2007-12-08 18:48:06'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Always found Imagine unbearably naive. Even when I was young and innocent.
    Then I've heard that John Lennon needed a Green Card for the US when he wrote
    it. Make sense.\r\nHappy Hanukkah everyone."
  created: '2007-12-08 23:28:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Fredo, here's more follow up on atheism and Stalin. \r\n\r\nA key beginning
    is Francis Bacon's doctrine of prejudice. (Bacon was a contemporary of Shakespeare.)
    This key idea was that the truth is obvious, and that only prejudice, which blinds
    us, prevents us from seeing it. (You can read the fuller story in Popper's essay
    \"On the sources of knowledge and ignorance\" in his book \"Conjectures and Refutations\".)\r\n\r\nThe
    sources of prejudice were past authorities, both religious authorities and the
    ancient Greeks. Bacon's idea that rejecting the past was the key to a brighter
    future help liberate thinkers to criticize past ideas, and that in many ways was
    hugely positive. It helped lead to modern science and liberal democracy. And it
    was a key ingredient in the tolerant \"age of reason\" in the 18th century.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    there is a small problem: the truth is not obvious, and human beings are highly
    fallible. What happened is that whatever seemed 'rational' to a thinker was held
    as obvious, and everyone who disagreed was an enemy of progress. This arrogant
    version of rationalism became prominent beginning with Rousseau, and cut a bloody
    swath through history, beginning with the reign of terror in the French revolution.
    The persecutions in the French revolution were not exactly atheist, as most of
    them were deists. But they were definitely against traditional religion and violently
    anti-clerical. Later, with Marx, the idea became a militant atheism: that defeating
    religion, the \"opiate of the masses\" was essential to the progress of humanity.
    So atheism part of an aggressive, and in some hands, such as Stalin's, a violent
    ideology.  \r\n\r\nThe story is told most extensively, I believe, by Jacob L.
    Talmon, in the \"Origins of Totalitarian Democracy.\" I haven't read that book,
    but I looked at it a long time ago, and believe it tells the story most directly.
    \ "
  created: '2007-12-09 15:28:34'
- author:
    name: PL
    picture: 111316
  body: "lore,\r\nI felt the same way about \"imagine.\" The song is ok when he is
    just \"imagining.\"\r\nits good to imagine. but then he insinuates he really means
    it and  that its your fault for not joining in.\r\n\r\n\"You may say that I'm
    a dreamer \r\nBut I'm not the only one \r\nI hope someday you'll join us \r\nAnd
    the world will live as one \"\r\n\r\nwhen are people going to realize that the
    true unity is unity in diversity, \r\nand stop trying to stomp everybody else
    out and make us \"one.\"\r\nThat is a truly relevent lesson of Hannukah!\r\nHappy
    Hanukkah!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/chanukah-ham_6266.jpg]\r\n(found
    in a NYC grocery)\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-09 15:33:56'
- author:
    name: PL
    picture: 111316
  body: "Chris,\r\ndid you put greek flavoring in the donuts too?\r\n-psachyah"
  created: '2007-12-09 15:38:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "ps to my comment on the background to the link between atheism and communist
    violence. I agree with Lori and Psachya on the na\xEFvet\xE9 of Lennon's song.
    It is a hymn to the utopian dreams of communist atheism, and completely ignores
    the bloody history of those who tried to implement this dream. \r\n\r\nI had a
    look at the wikipedia article on Chabad, and learned something important about
    the movement I didn't know before. I had been baffled when one wing of the movement
    insisted that the late Rebbe was the messiah. It seemed to me that something must
    have gone very wrong in the movement for some followers to adopt such a view,
    which seems to me alien to Judaism. \r\n\r\nI had known that the founder of Chabad
    put study and learning back into Chassidism. In the wikipedia article it says
    further than he explicitly rejected the idea that a 'rebbe' was an intermediary
    between a follower and God. This authoritarian element in Chassidism always struck
    me as its worst feature, and I was happy to read about what the founder of the
    movement had done. \r\n\r\nHowever, that late Rabbi Schneerson explicitly rejected
    the views of the founder, according to the article, and saw himself as having
    better access to God than his followers. Personally, I think that ridding Judaism
    of priests was was of the best things that happened to it, and putting back this
    authoritarian element is really a  backward step. Since it is Chanukah, it is
    good to remember that it was the Priests who wanted to turn Jerusalem into a Greek
    city, and betrayed the Torah.  \r\n\r\nWe already had our reformation, so to speak,
    in the rise and dominance of Rabbinic Judaism over the priestly cult of the Temple.
    I don't want to go back.  "
  created: '2007-12-09 15:49:47'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>when are people going to realize that the true unity is unity in diversity</cite>\r\n\r\nExactly
    why I oppose prosletyzing."
  created: '2007-12-09 16:09:03'
- author:
    name: PL
    picture: 111316
  body: "Tomorrow is the 27th anniversary of the death of John Lennon. \r\nNaive but
    still charming.\r\n\r\nWilliam,\r\nI read the Wiki on chabad right now. Its long,
    but there is a small problem: \r\n\"the truth is not obvious, and human beings
    are highly fallible.\"\r\n\r\nTo understand something, I have to have intimate
    knowledge with it - and then give it careful study and time . \r\nEven still,
    I will still end up with a limited view of it. To read the wiki where an entire
    culture is summed up in a few out-of-context  glosses and then your unassuming
    reaction to what you just \"learned.\" Makes me wonder what do I know about anybody?\r\nnot
    much, a few simple facts and a bunch of gross misconceptions.\r\n\r\nI think that
    feeling, of \"I dont know\", is strong enough to allow us to treat other's diversity
    with respect, and maybe interest."
  created: '2007-12-09 17:17:06'
- author:
    name: PL
    picture: 111316
  body: "patty,\r\nI think the missionary's cause of \"make everybody the same - and
    we will all live in peace\" is hopeless. \r\nEverybody does it priests, professors,
    and even musicians. It would be better if we focused on a few things which we
    can agree on to establish peace. And then let diversity flourish. "
  created: '2007-12-09 17:39:58'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Actually I think hopeless is too kind. Misguided or worse in my opinion.
    I am sure that there are plenty of missionaries with only the best intentions
    - to help others find the true path to salvation, or whatever. But I think the
    impulse behind prosletyzing is not always so benevolent, it's about power and
    fear and intolerance, just like the edict to procreate madly in order to up your
    numbers.\r\n\r\nGentle persuasion, an attempt to spread your own version of the
    truth - the Dalai Lama speaking in Central Park for example - this I have no problem
    with. But a \"mission\" to convert, whatever the religion, feels like a first
    step towards \"death to the infidels\" and we know where that can lead and has
    led throughout history. \r\n\r\nI also believe that if more people made a point
    of learning about other religions rather than rejecting them, they would learn
    that they have more in common in terms of truth (if not in the details) than they
    expected.\r\n\r\nI do want to emphasize - lest I am in danger of offending anyone
    - that my distrust of fundamentalism extends to every religion including my own. "
  created: '2007-12-09 18:05:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">To read the wiki where an entire culture is summed up in a few out-of-context
    glosses and then your unassuming reaction to what you just \u201Clearned.\u201D\r\n\r\nPsachyah,
    I may be judging too quickly, and if so please explain to me how the parts I quote
    are distorting the movement. \r\n\r\nMy acceptance of the key paragraph I quoted
    is based on two things. First, being a Wikipedia article it could be contradicted
    by any Chabad follower if they wanted to. So I am assuming that the quotes and
    references to Rabbi Schneerson's works are accurate. \r\n\r\nEven if accurate,
    there is a danger they are out of context, as you say, and distorting a larger
    truth. But I think not, because these quotes make sense in the context of everything
    I have heard and experienced about the movement. The bitter split in the movement
    shows that it has grave problems, along with its strengths. And that explanation
    of the background to the split is the first thing I have read that makes sense
    of it for me. \r\n\r\nAgain, if I am jumping to conclusions please correct me. "
  created: '2007-12-09 18:14:34'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "William,\r\nI see you made an effort (finally pulling the Popper). Atheism
    is however just the disbelief in God (Yours and others), and has no other doctrine
    beyond that. That'll be the final word from me on that subject. I do hope your
    kerning went well and I am eager to see what kind of Caslon will turn out. I expect
    it'll be kosher."
  created: '2007-12-09 22:43:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">kosher\r\n\r\nNo, it's \"age of reason,\" like Caslon. Being a Reform Jew,
    I've got a foot in each tradition, which is either strong or schizophrenic, depending
    on your point of view. \r\n\r\n>no other doctrine beyond that\r\n\r\nI concede
    that there is a difference to this extent: the Crusaders killed in the name of
    God, whereas Stalin killed in the name of 'scientific socialism'. The justification
    for killing wasn't atheism itself, but 'science,' which supposedly led to the
    conclusion that if you killed enough people everything would be great. However,
    the positing of 'science' in place of God as a source of certainty is \"positivism\"
    as defined by August Compte and as taken up by Marx. And positivism is a doctrine
    that has atheism as an key component. The key sin in my view is not theism or
    atheism, but rather being so certain you are right that it gives you license to
    kill. That's fanaticism. \r\n\r\nIf you want to detach atheism from doctrines
    that it has been part of, like Marxism-Leninism, that is fine by me. But then
    for consistency you have to do the same thing for theism, and then you can't blame
    theism itself for any of the manifold sins of religious groups. Stalin killed
    in the name of a doctrine that had atheism as part of it. The Crusaders killed
    in the name of a doctrine that had God as part of it. God was crazy one excuse,
    and 'science' another, for murdering innocents. But Hitchens' views still go out
    the window, because the problem is fanaticism, not theism or atheism. "
  created: '2007-12-09 23:29:28'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "William,\r\n> <cite>you can\u2019t blame theism itself for any of the manifold
    sins of religious groups.</cite>\r\n\r\nEh? Who said I did? \r\n\r\n> <cite>because
    the problem is fanaticism, not theism or atheism.</cite>\r\n\r\nAgreed.\r\n\r\n\r\nPeace
    (and not in the communist sense)\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2007-12-10 08:51:52'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "PL,\r\n> <cite>The song is ok when he is just \u201Cimagining.\u201D\r\nits
    good to imagine. but then he insinuates he really means it and that its your fault
    for not joining in.\r\n...\r\nwhen are people going to realize that the true unity
    is unity in diversity,\r\nand stop trying to stomp everybody else out and make
    us \u201Cone.\u201D\r\nThat is a truly relevent lesson of Hannukah!</cite>\r\n\r\nO
    dear me is <em>that</em> the truly relevant lesson of Hannukah?\r\n\r\nLet's study
    another pop singers popsong for revelatory insights.\r\nPaul McCartney of Lennons
    old band penned this little ditty:\r\n\r\nObladi oblada life goes on bra\r\nLala
    how the life goes on\r\nObladi oblada life goes on bra\r\nLala how the life goes
    on\r\n\r\nNow, for those who didn't know this, \"bra\" means <em>good</em> in
    swedish. Would you agree that \"life goes on, <em>good</em>\" is not really the
    proper way to face life's hardship? These are his very words, not even within
    the context of \"imagining\" as Lennons'. Whatever is he insinuating? What is
    the lesson?\r\n\r\nAnother Lennon-song is <em>Come together</em>. No need to quote
    the full lyrics since it's out there in plain sight. Does this make you feel he's
    trying to convince you and others to \"come together\", and doing so \"right now\";
    ie doing things together at a given time, probably to do undiversified stuff as
    one! Talk about stomping things together. What can we all learn from this?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-10 09:24:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Who said I did?\r\n\r\nI meant Hitchens' view. \r\n\r\nWe agree about fanaticism
    being the problem, but \xE0 propo this discussion I can't resist posting this,
    which I just ran across in the Wikipedia article on the Cultural Revolution in
    China:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Destroy_old_world_3617.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    caption reads: \"Chinese poster saying: 'Smash the old world / Establish a new
    world.' Classical example of the Red art from the early Cultural Revolution. A
    worker (or possibly Red Guard) crushes the crucifix, Buddha and classical Chinese
    texts with his hammer; 1967\"\r\n\r\nAs the article explains, at least half a
    million people perished in the cultural revolution, which even involved cannibalism
    in some places. And this doesn't include the huge number of suicides. This is
    a real and recent history in which anti-religious fervor was one important factor.
    \r\n\r\n>>stop trying to stomp everybody else out and make us \u201Cone.\u201D\r\n>O
    dear me is that the truly relevant lesson of Hannukah?\r\n\r\nNot the only one
    but yes, a relevant lesson, yes. Chanukah was about not being forced to be part
    of the Hellenistic culture. Hitchens--like the Emperor Antichocus back then--thinks
    that the Jews were backward enemies of enlightenment, and never should have rebelled.
    That would have saved the world from Judaism and its offspring, Christianity and
    Islam.  \r\n\r\nThe interesting thing about Lennon was that he wrote songs with
    contradictory messages, all artistically quite wonderful. In 'Revolution' he ridicules
    the know-nothing revolutionaries, singing \"If you go carrying pictures of Chairman
    Mao, you ain't gonna make it with anyone anyhow.\" That was during the Cultural
    Revolution and there were a fair number of crack-pot sympathizers in London then--I
    know, I was there at the LSE then and met a few of those guys. Then he wrote \"Power
    to the people,\" a know-nothing revolutionary song if you ask me--and beautifully
    done. Then he has \"Imagine,\" his secular hymn to utopian socialism, almost as
    good as 'Amazing Grace.' Great artist, politically naive and confused. \r\n\r\nps
    I think 'bra' is McCartney's attempt to sound like a Jamaican saying 'brother'.
    \ "
  created: '2007-12-10 14:56:21'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> The interesting thing about Lennon was that he wrote songs with contradictory
    messages</em>\r\n\r\nEven in the same song - even in the same line! From the White
    Album:\r\n\"When you talk about destruction / don't you know that you can count
    me out--in\""
  created: '2007-12-10 15:54:57'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: Strange thing, art.
  created: '2007-12-10 16:15:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I would have thought he 50s pop song \"Sixteen Candles\" would have been
    more appropriate for a Hannukah discussian :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-10 16:20:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">pop song \u201CSixteen Candles\u201D \r\n\r\nThe problem is that Chanukah
    songs are generally pretty dreadful. In the musical Christmas vs Chanukah smack
    down, Chanukah wouldn't be even allowed in the ring. \"I had a little dreidel\"
    vs Shubert, Bach, and other greats of western music--oy! Even the good Jew--ok,
    not so faithful--Irving Berlin had to write 'White Christmas' and Chanukah song.
    \r\n\r\nRecently Peter Yarrow of Peter Paul and Mary wrote a [[http://www.beliefnet.com/story/59/story_5948_1.html|really
    good Chanukah song]], though. It somehow marries the story of the Maccabees and
    civil rights protest songs and comes out wonderfully well, I think.  "
  created: '2007-12-10 17:12:30'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "William, you forget the Adam Sandler Chanukah song... try and find a X-mas
    carol that lights a candle to this!\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5Hmr5YOewww\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-10 17:39:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Adam Sandler Chanukah song\r\n\r\nI think that came out when my son was
    in high school. He said that every single Jewish boy his age knew all the lyrics
    by heart and loved it. Sandler did a cartoon movie [[http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0271263/|Eight
    Crazy Nights]], which was ok but not as fun as the song. \r\n\r\nI know a lot
    of people can't stand him, but I've always liked Sandler. [[http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0371246/|Spanglish]],
    in which he played a straight role, was one of the best movies of the past ten
    years.\r\n\r\nps the earlier post should read \"'White Christmas' and *no* Chanukah
    song\".  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-10 18:12:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The Adam Sandler Chanukah song was a favorite of mine:-)\r\n\r\n ChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-10 19:12:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Chris, you actually like a song full of zany word play? I''m shocked, shocked
    :) '
  created: '2007-12-10 19:53:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I know, William, hard to believe :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\nAKA, Mr Goy Boy"
  created: '2007-12-10 20:05:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Q: What do Stalin, the Lubovicher Rebbe, the Cultural Revolution, Christopher
    Hitchens, Judah Maccabee, John Lennon, Peter Paul and Mary, Adam Sandler and Chewbacca
    have in common? \r\n\r\nA. It's Chanukah on Typophile!\r\n\r\nHappy Chanukah to
    all :) "
  created: '2007-12-10 20:46:07'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>ChrisL\r\nAKA, Mr Goy Boy</em>\r\n\r\nTrust me, it's better than being
    <em> Evil Shiksa from Hell</em> (as my two Jewish ex-MILs would say....)  ;-)"
  created: '2007-12-10 20:58:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ":-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-10 22:00:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Linda, when they told you about Jewish men I guess they didn't tell you about
    the mother-in-law part :)
  created: '2007-12-10 22:20:19'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "They did, but I never subscribed to stereotypes.\r\n\r\nUntil I got two of
    'em!  ;-)\r\n\r\n(And having experienced that excessive degree of vitriol, I'm
    now pretty immune to most other nastiness, for obvious reasons....)"
  created: '2007-12-11 03:03:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I was joking of course. Many Jewish mothers-in-law are very kind to their
    daughters in law. My mother, of blessed memory, was unfailingly kind to all her
    daughters in law. \r\n\r\nA relative of mine had such a kind mother in law that
    she would complain to her that she was excessively kind to everybody and would
    be taken advantage of! Interestingly everybody adored this lady, and people tried
    to live up to her example, rather than taking advantage of her kindness. "
  created: '2007-12-11 03:32:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My mother-in-law is the sweetest lady you could ever meet.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-11 03:47:30'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I wasn't. \r\n\r\nSome, perhaps a few, Jewish mothers-in-law may be passingly
    polite to their own kind, but not to <em>shiksas</em> (in my experience).\r\n\r\nThey
    hated me, made no absolutely no secret about it, and bullied their sons endlessly
    both before and after the ceremonies, until it came down to divorce. Seems it
    was better to be married to the <em>Evil Shiksa from Hell</em> than (gasp!) be
    divorced.\r\n\r\n(hmmm, OTOH, they were both Americans -- but I don't think that
    was their only problem. Y'know Bill, you remind me of my two ex-hubbies....)\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-11 03:54:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Jewish mothers-in-law may be passingly polite to their own kind, but not
    to shiksas\r\n\r\nMy wife is Chinese, and not Jewish, and she was treated just
    the same as my mother's two Jewish daughters-in-law. \r\n\r\n>Bill, you remind
    me of my two ex-hubbies\r\n\r\nOh,oh, I'm in for it now :) "
  created: '2007-12-11 04:03:04'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Dear Abby.....\r\n............  :^)"
  created: '2007-12-11 04:08:17'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> David, Darn good proportions for a 4-year-old!\r\n\r\nThanks Chris.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    she knows who's Bill Gates, Robert Slimbach & FontLab :^)"
  created: '2007-12-11 04:12:31'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "i'm eating katz's pastrami and latkes right now and really enjoying this
    thread.\r\n\r\nhappy chanukah to everyone, especially william!\r\n\r\njoshua"
  created: '2007-12-11 04:51:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "</a> >Not very subtle.\r\n\r\nI was referring to your full quote, which is
    immediately above mine. No deception, or even possibility of deception. I was
    just pointing out that my own experience has been different. It takes all kinds
    of people to make a world, and there is huge variation in every social group.
    \r\n\r\nAnd thanks Joshua. This is the last day of Hanukkah.  \r\n "
  created: '2007-12-11 14:55:23'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I notice you left out the <em>(in my experience)</em> from the quote, Bill....
    \ \r\n\r\nNot very subtle.\r\n\r\nOddly enough, my fathers-in-law thought I was
    terrific, probably because they didn't have the chutzpah to stand up to their
    wives the way I did.  :-)\r\n\r\n(the edit, which  bumped my post down, was to
    close my emphasis tag -- sorry!)"
  created: '2007-12-11 15:22:02'
- author:
    name: JCSalomon
    picture: 128147
  body: "William:\r\n\u2003There\u2019s still tonight\u2014<em>and</em> the day after.\u2002(Remember,
    in the Jewish calendar the date changes at night.)\u2002If you\u2019ve got a menorah
    burning during the day, leave it up tomorrow with all eight candles; take it down
    tomorrow night.\r\n\u2014Joel"
  created: '2007-12-11 17:26:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thanks for the correction; I meant to say tonight is the last *night* of
    Chanukah. '
  created: '2007-12-11 17:38:25'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> I gotta say, I showed a lot of promise at 4.\r\n\r\nmy little girl (4 y
    old)"
  created: '2007-12-25 06:20:45'
- author:
    name: PL
    picture: 111316
  body: "WB-\"Psachyah, I may be judging too quickly, and if so please explain to
    me how the parts I quote are distorting the movement.\"\r\nPL- I cannot give a
    full explanation only because I don't have time and people have done it better
    than me already. I will try to point in some good directions.\r\n\r\nWB-\"My acceptance
    of the key paragraph I quoted is based on two things. First, being a Wikipedia
    article it could be contradicted by any Chabad follower if they wanted to. \"\r\nPL-
    good point, somebody who cares should take the time to correct it.\r\n\r\nWB-
    \"So I am assuming that the quotes and references to Rabbi Schneerson\u2019s works
    are accurate. Even if accurate, there is a danger they are out of context, as
    you say, and distorting a larger truth. But I think not, because these quotes
    make sense in the context of everything I have heard and experienced about the
    movement. The bitter split in the movement shows that it has grave problems, along
    with its strengths. And that explanation of the background to the split is the
    first thing I have read that makes sense of it for me. Again, if I am jumping
    to conclusions please correct me.\"\r\nPL- At the very least the following quote
    is off \"However, that late Rabbi Schneerson explicitly rejected the views of
    the founder, and saw himself as having better access to God than his followers.
    \" It goes without saying that Rabbi Schneerson did not see himself as explicitly
    rejecting the views of his founder, the author of the article betrays a bias in
    the way he formed the sentence. Its more of an accusation than an education. Here
    are some points of reference on the subject - I just cannot do it justice myself:\r\n\r\nHere
    is an article written by a chabad representative published in the Orthodox Union
    (OU) an organization which is not beholden to Chabad. A good reference because
    it deals with the subject directly.\r\nhttp://www.ou.org/publications/ja/5763/5763fall/JUSTBETW.PDF\r\n\r\nHere
    is an academic analysis of the movements founding ideology:\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Habad-Hasidism-Shneur-Zalman-Lyady/dp/0876685262/ref=sr_1_6?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1200895758&sr=8-6\r\n\r\nHere
    is an academic analysis of Rabbi MM Schneerson educational teachings:\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Educational-Teachings-Rabbi-Menachem-Schneerson/dp/0765760924/ref=pd_bbs_sr_6?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1200896277&sr=8-6\r\n\r\nI
    think you would like both,\r\nIf you are interested in something specific I will
    give some references to that as well.\r\n-psachyah\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-21 06:23:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thanks for the explanation and links, Psachyah. I just printed out and will
    read the first. I will try to get hold of the books at libraries when I get the
    chance. '
  created: '2008-01-21 14:54:10'
date: '2007-12-04 20:23:57'
node_type: forum
title: Happy Hanukkah

---
