---
author:
  name: Goran Soderstrom
  picture: 111361
body: "I have tried to solve this on myself, but it seems impossible.\r\n\r\nFor interpolation
  to be correct, the nodes positions must be representing the same \"area\" of the
  glyph. I'm all fine with that. But sometimes, some small error has occured and the
  node on one master represent a wrong \"node position\". For instance, the top left
  nod of an \"I\" of one master is on the right bottom on the other master, making
  interpolation wrong.\r\n\r\nIs there a way to solve this without having to redraw
  the outline? Similar to change start-point, or something? Sort of tell the glyph:
  This node is supposed to be here?\r\n\r\nThanks in advance."
comments:
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" Similar to change start-point, or something?\"\r\nIf you are drawing contours
    in FL, control key and -click on the point you wish to make first, and select
    \"make node first\" I think. \r\nIf you are drawing strokes in FL, tell me and
    I'll give you the procedure, it's a little bit funny. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-11 12:15:39'
- author:
    name: Pieter van Rosmalen
    picture: 109564
  body: "Or CONTOUR > PATH > RELOCATE STARTPOINTS\r\n\r\nPieter"
  created: '2007-12-11 12:21:14'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "Hmm, the startpoint was just an example. I am more thinking of \"fixing\"
    the nodes so they represent the same \"node-position\" in a glyph.\r\nWhat I meant
    was this (I know it's my bad english...)\r\n1. Open up a MM-project.\r\n2. Open
    the glyph \"hyphen\"\r\n3. On one of the masters \u2013 flip it horizontal.\r\n
    \  (This to simulate the problem only)\r\n4. When you interpolate these two, the
    interim weights will now be distorted.\r\n\r\nHow do I fix it? Think of the glyph
    as if it was NOT the hyphen, but a \"g\" or something else that cant be just flipped
    to be corrected."
  created: '2007-12-11 12:58:16'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gees_5958.gif]\r\n\r\nI've never done
    anything with MM. But when blending fonts it's important that path direction,
    starting point and all nodes correspond with their counterpart(s) on the other
    weight. By setting the starting point the same on each contour, you're telling
    the contour where each point is. (The third g is blended)"
  created: '2007-12-11 14:41:53'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "Thanks, but this question is about when this is not working and I manually
    have to make some adjustments on one of the masters or something.\r\n\r\nTry the
    example I gave above, and you'll see that it wont work, because the node positions
    seems to be \"locked\" in the glyph in some way. So if I flip the hyphen and change
    that startpoint to correct the \"fault\" on one master, the other startpoint will
    also follow on the other master (but opposite).\r\n\r\nTry it, you'll see that
    the start points will be wrong anyway.\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-11 14:48:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">So if I flip the hyphen and change that startpoint to correct the \u201Cfault\u201D
    on one master, the other startpoint will also follow on the other master (but
    opposite).\r\n\r\nDid you first set the start points the same, and afterwards
    create the MM? "
  created: '2007-12-11 15:08:52'
- author:
    name: Toby
    picture: 109971
  body: "I think you are a bit vague in what you wanna do. How do you know the node
    \"represents the wrong position\" as you put it? If the startpoint, the path direction
    and the amount/type of points are the same, there should be no problem..\r\nI
    think your problem is path direction. If you flip a glyph the path direction gets
    reversed. What you have to do is select all glyphs and push the \"set PS direction\"
    (if you\xB4re making that) button, then the relocate startpoint button - on both
    masters."
  created: '2007-12-11 15:17:25'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "So I tried MM (for the first time :-) If I change the starting point on one
    contour the other contour follows. When I remove a node (not breaking the contour)
    that also happens on the opposite master(!)\r\n\r\nSo I guess your contours need
    to be correct from the start. "
  created: '2007-12-11 15:19:50'
- author:
    name: Toby
    picture: 109971
  body: Yes, the above should be done before interpolation of course..
  created: '2007-12-11 15:25:48'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "if i understand the problem correctly, this is my solution. if i seem coming
    from nowhere, then i misread the problem, but here goes:\r\n\r\nmake a new blank
    font. from the glyph window select one master and copy it. paste into a glyph
    window in your new font. fix the starting points to match the master that was
    not copied. copy your fixed glyph. paste into the mask layer of the multiple master
    glyph. copy mask to master. voila! it should work now.\r\n\r\nthis is a terrible
    work around. i wish there were some way to disable the compatibility links between
    masters. i'd rather there just be some kind of warning flag that alerts you that
    your masters are not compatible until you've changed them so that they are. or
    maybe the user should be able to toggle MM compatibility on and off to make these
    kinds of changes easily."
  created: '2007-12-11 15:31:01'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Try this:\r\n\r\n1. Clear the Mask layer\r\n2. Copy the glyph to the Mask
    layer\r\n3. Switch to the Mask layer\r\n4. Do Tools > Multiple Master > Expand
    Master\r\n5. Correct the outline(s)\r\n6. Switch to the Outline layer\r\n7. Do
    Tools > Multiple Master > Mask to Master\r\n\r\nThe key step in this procedure
    is the \"Expand Master\" operation. What it does is it breaks the compatibility
    links between masters and lets you adjust the outlines freely. I used to do what
    Paul described until I found this method."
  created: '2007-12-11 17:07:18'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: Great (typowiki) tip!
  created: '2007-12-11 17:45:08'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: aha! great tip miguel.
  created: '2007-12-11 18:08:48'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "Paul and Miguel, you are my heroes!\r\n\r\nThe \"compability links\" is the
    issue. Not startpoints, path orientation or something else, that almost everybody
    else here have been insisting on ;-)\r\n\r\nMany thanks for being patient enough
    to fully understand my problem. I dont think anyone else did.\r\n\r\nHugs from
    Sweden\r\nG\xF6ran"
  created: '2007-12-11 20:37:52'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "I just *have to* answer this one:\r\n\r\n<cite>How do you know the node \u201Crepresents
    the wrong position\u201D as you put it?</cite>\r\n\r\nI have two eyes.\r\n\r\n<cite>If
    you flip a glyph the path direction gets reversed.</cite>\r\n\r\nActually it doesn't.
    Not since 5.03 I believe."
  created: '2007-12-11 20:46:37'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: Well ... at least you're happy now.
  created: '2007-12-11 21:04:15'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: Arent we all, getting this nice advice? :)
  created: '2007-12-11 21:23:32'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "A good way of understanding MM is NOT to think of the masters as being collections
    of points that are somehow \"linked together\" across masters. In MM, every glyph
    is made of just ONE set of nodes, but each of those nodes have several different
    POSITIONS (coordinate locations) \u2013 different on each master. So if you add
    or delete a node, you just add or delete a node from that one set of nodes that
    there is. \r\n\r\nIt's like having 10 employees \u2014 let's assume that each
    of them works in a different office each day of the week. If you fire one, then
    you have one employee less \u2014 on all days of the week. And if you hire one,
    you have one employee more \u2014 on all days of the week. On Monday, Jim can
    be at the office on the 42nd Street and on Tuesday, he can be at the office on
    7th Avenue, but it is still one and the same Jim :D \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-12 00:34:07'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"In MM, every glyph is made of just ONE set of nodes, but each of those
    nodes have several different POSITIONS (coordinate locations) \u2013 different
    on each master. \"\r\nOh I see. None the the advantages of GX with all the limitations.
    :-o \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-12-12 12:22:53'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: 'The funny thing is that in FontLab-Python, you can access the nodes in both
    ways: as a list of points for each master or as a list of masters for each node.
    That always confuses me again.'
  created: '2007-12-12 16:15:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>The funny thing is that in FontLab-Python, you can access the nodes in
    both ways:</em>\r\n\r\nThat's because Jim is also bilocating; however, he still
    only collects one pay cheque."
  created: '2007-12-12 20:44:29'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Oh I see. None the the advantages of GX with all the limitations. :-o\r\n\r\nTwo
    huge advantages over GX: \r\n\r\n* there are actual usable shipping applications
    that allow people to draw fonts in MM space\r\n\r\n* designers actually understand
    what is going on in MM so that the Carters don't need to hire the Berlows to \"implement\"
    their designs :D \r\n\r\nBTW, even Erik van Blokland's Superpolator uses the same
    principle, i.e. one set of outline points and a number of locations (masters).
    The difference between MM and Superpolator is that in MM, the masters are located
    at the ends of the design space, and that the number of masters must be a power
    of two. In Superpolator, masters can be inserted at any place within the design
    space (but they still need to be \"compatible\"). Actually, an extended version
    of MM did support intermediate masters (so you could slice an axis by inserting
    extra masters in the middle) but this extended MM is not implemented in FontLab
    Studio. \r\n\r\nSimplicity is often a virtue. \r\n\r\nCheers, \r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-16 04:19:25'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<cite>is not implemented in FontLab Studio</cite>\r\n\r\nIntermediate masters
    are not implemented in FL \u2013 but they are supported, in a way. You just have
    to use an MM font with four masters to take up your extralight, regular and extrabold
    masters. That results to one redundant master, of course, so you have two identical
    masters. I have written a very small macro that simply updates that 'dead' master
    from the other so that is not a big deal. This is how I have been designing and
    producing my font families for years.\r\nThe advantage of having three weights
    in an MM font is that you can mix you cocktail out of the three masters at any
    arbitrary ratio. For example, you can mix your semibold out of  -20% extralight,
    80% regular and 40% extrabold. I explained over in the other thread (http://typophile.com/node/39376)
    why this makes sense. Don't know whether this concept, combining the principles
    of interpolation and extrapolation, is possible in Superpolator."
  created: '2007-12-16 09:45:36'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Tim, \r\n\r\nthe principle of arbitrary mixing various masters in different
    percentages is the very principle of \"superpolation\". \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-12-16 17:44:07'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<cite>the principle of arbitrary mixing various masters in different percentages
    is the very principle of \u201Csuperpolation\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nAh, didn't know
    that. That makes me curious. Is there any information on arbitrary mixing of masters
    in Superpolator available?\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-16 19:16:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">the very principle of \u201Csuperpolation\u201D\r\n\r\nAdam, does this mean
    that if you are interpolating between two weights only, or extrapolating beyond
    them, that there is no difference between MM in FontLab and Superpolator? Is Superpolator
    only an advantage when the goal is more than three weights? "
  created: '2007-12-16 22:36:06'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...extended MM is not implemented in FontLab Studio.\"\r\nLike I said.
    But the solution I think we are looking for from this variety of type design work
    comes in two 'broad kinds'.\r\n\r\nI think we know what neat numerically linear
    interpolated arrays of styles are good for (broad kind one). \r\nBut Print has
    been using slightly messy arrays for years (broad kind two). \r\nDownright ugly
    arrays of styles have given magnificent benefit to type on screens (also broad
    kind two). \r\nSimplicity is indeed often a virtue, but it is not one that FontStudio
    exhibits, why change now!? lol. \r\n\r\n\"...need to hire the Berlows to \u201Cimplement\u201D
    their designs\"\r\nSuperpolator does MM as well as Superpolations. A tool implemented
    to do both hardly forces the average type designer into being a type rocket sci
    506 major. Why are you picking on Erik? I bet Tim or any other competent MM designing
    type designer can pick up Erik's excellent tool and in one (1) day (day), and
    be stylistically 'whooopin'-it-up' forevermore. But thanks!\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-17 12:27:39'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "David, \r\n\r\nWho's picking on Erik? Not I, my Lord. \r\n\r\nJust last week
    I met with Erik in Bad Homburg where he was doing presentations of Superpolator
    2 and LetterSetter (developed by Erik) as well as MetricsMachine, FeatureProof
    and Prepolator (developed by Tal Leming). I was very impressed with all the tools.
    \r\n\r\nI actually was picking on GX \u2014 because I think GX Variations was
    \"too much\". I have heard from several people that designing GX Variantions fonts
    was hardly a practical process. With Superpolator, it is different, because Superpolator
    does not follow the GX way (one master and a bunch of deltas) but is more of a
    mix between the GX process and the MM process. Superpolator is flexible on one
    hand but it still manages to be visual and intuitive. I think the task of finding
    the right balance between technical flexibility and UI feasibility is the hardest
    task in software design. \r\n\r\nWilliam, \r\n\r\nindeed, with two masters, the
    results between MM and Superpolation should be identical. However, the next step
    in Superpolation is that you can add just a 3rd master while in the FontLab MM
    implementation, you need to add two more (ending up with four). \r\n\r\nWith Superpolator,
    you can have 5, 7, or 13 masters but of course also 4, 8 or 16 masters \u2014
    and they can be in different locations on the design space. \r\n\r\nFor example,
    4 masters in Superpolator can visually form an arbitrary quadrangle while in MM
    they have to form a rectangle. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-12-17 19:17:57'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<cite>the principle of arbitrary mixing various masters in different percentages
    is the very principle of \u201Csuperpolation\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nAdam, do you
    know how arbitrary mixing of masters in Superpolator works? How is it edited?
    And how is it connected to the input methods described in the screencast?\r\nIf
    all I want is simply to mix my semibold out of -20% extralight, 80% regular and
    40% extrabold, how would that be achieved? I cannot imagine any quadrangle doing
    that."
  created: '2007-12-17 19:56:33'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I'm not sure how you would position this in the Superpolator space visually,
    but I know that Erik has developed a GlyphMath module (http://robofab.org/howto/glyphmath.html
    ). Using this, it should be possible to say something like <code>newfont = -0.2
    * xl + 0.8 * rg + 0.4 * xb</code>. I don't have Superpolator so I cannot test
    it myself. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-18 02:25:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Tracking\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-18 02:45:27'
- author:
    name: vanblokland
    picture: 110442
  body: "Tim:\r\n<cite>do you know how arbitrary mixing of masters in Superpolator
    works? How is it edited? And how is it connected to the input methods described
    in the screencast?\r\nIf all I want is simply to mix my semibold out of -20% extralight,
    80% regular and 40% extrabold, how would that be achieved? I cannot imagine any
    quadrangle doing that.\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nin order to mix masters the way you describe,
    in Superpolator, or GX, you need to set up a separate axis for each, then pick
    values along each to get to the shape you want.\r\n\r\nExtraLightAxis: 1 master
    at 1000\r\nExtraBoldAxis: 1 master at 1000\r\nI'd put the Regular at the origin
    of both axes. Then you can add or reduce the influence of all 3 masters.\r\n\r\nAs
    Adam points out, you can do the same thing with RoboFab's glyphMath (in fact,
    that's what Sp uses alot). You don't even have to have Superpolator:\r\n<code><pre>\r\n#
    suppose a font with 3 interpolatable glyphs on A, B, C\r\n# calculate D based
    on 3 factors.\r\nfrom robofab.world import CurrentFont\r\nf = CurrentFont()\r\nxl
    = f['A']\r\nrg = f['B']\r\nxb = f['C']\r\nnew = -0.2 * xl + .8 * rg + 0.4 * xb\r\nif
    'D' not in f:\r\n\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_f.newGlyph('D')\r\nf['D'].clear()\r\nf['D'].appendGlyph(new)\r\nf['D'].update()\r\n<pre></code>\r\n\r\nUsing
    Superpolator it would be a matter of exploring the design space to find the right
    combination of factors. If you already know what you want, it's just as easy to
    use a glyphMath transformation."
  created: '2007-12-18 07:46:30'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "\r\nThanks for the explanations, everyone. Looks like it would be more of
    a trinagle, then.\r\n\r\nIn order to get my semibold cocktail I could also introduce
    a second, vertical \"trueness\" axis. The extralight and extrabold would be at
    the ends of the weight axis at trueness 0, and the true regular would be placed
    somewhere around the middle of the weight axis but on trueness 1 (middle top of
    the diagram). This is how I used to sketch it on paper. \r\n\r\nThat would also
    make it easy to compare a purely interpolated regular to the true regular, and
    even extrapolate something truer than true, just to visualise what constitutes
    a true regular."
  created: '2007-12-18 11:50:26'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Adam's: \"I actually was picking on GX \u2014 because I think GX Variations
    was \u201Ctoo much\u201D.\"\r\nPerhaps, and perhaps for the tools available at
    the time. But having control over 'the middle' of a typographic design space,,,
    was/is never too much. Don't have superpolator? Not designed a GX font, but ya'
    know \"several people\" who have? lol, riiight. Superpolator is close enough to
    GX for me to know  \u2014 I'll not be needing FL for this Either. What Erik says
    in his last two lines, combined with what I said about neat and messy design speces,
    are all a typophile's typophile needs to know. :-)\r\n\r\nTim's: \"That would
    also make it easy to compare a purely interpolated regular to the true regular,
    and even extrapolate something truer than true, just to visualise what constitutes
    a true regular.\" I'm pretty sure this is what I mean. Why visualize?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-12-19 13:59:56'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "David, \r\n\r\nto me, \"the tools available at the time\" *are* the technology,
    realistically. \r\n\r\nType 1 would be just another font format if it were not
    for Fontographer. \r\n\r\nAnd, dare I say, Multiple Master would completely sink
    in forgotenness since Adobe dropped it 8 years ago if it were not for FontLab
    Studio that allowed it to resurface as a font development technology (far from
    perfect, but good enough for many designers). \r\n\r\nGX Variations are long forgotten
    (they don't even work properly anymore in Mac OS X's up-to-date text engine, CoreText
    that is) because the tools to make fonts in that format were awkward. \r\n\r\nGX
    had support for rich typography and complex scripts long before OpenType, but
    it was OpenType that gained momentum, because (among others) there were tools
    that allowed people to make fonts in that format. \r\n\r\nMM had the concept of
    \"start at the ends and imagine the middle\" and GX Variations had the concept
    of \"start at the middle and imagine the ends\". That is my understanding. I don't
    think either of those was really practical from a designer's perspective. \r\n\r\nSuperpolator
    is neither, as far as I can tell. It has the concept of \"start anywhere and put
    masters anywhere\", which is flexible though tough to visualize. Superpolator
    IS very promising and I'm keeping my fingers crossed. \r\n\r\n> Don\u2019t have
    superpolator? Not designed a GX font, but ya\u2019 know \u201Cseveral people\u201D
    \r\n> who have? lol, riiight. \r\n\r\nWhen TrueType GX was introduced, I was in
    high school. Until 2000 or so, the only cases where I have seen a Mac was from
    a distance (which is not really surprising given that Microsoft localized their
    OS and applications into my native language very early on, and Apple did not seem
    to care.) \r\n\r\nEvB told me he did a GX variations face once, at some point
    I did figure about the state table stuff, and about two years ago, I spent a whole
    afternoon with Dave Opstad, and he explained me GX Variations and other aspects
    GX. That was the first time I developed a grasp of that \u2014 after all, I'm
    just a moderately intelligent person, one a crack who can \"get it\" from just
    reading the specs. \r\n\r\nI've never seen any GX tools, any GX applications.
    I've spoken to people at Linotype who had all but good things to say about GX.
    \r\n\r\nI'm not sure what you mean by \"lol, riiight\" here, but I'm sure you
    have fun and you are right. :) \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-20 00:15:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>to me, \u201Cthe tools available at the time\u201D *are* the technology</em>\r\n\r\nAdam's
    a nominalist! Adam's a nominalist! Nyanyanyanya! :)"
  created: '2007-12-20 01:33:11'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Of course I am. I always thought that OpenType is just a sum of all fonts
    available in this format. \r\nA."
  created: '2007-12-20 02:13:15'
- author:
    name: Ian Blair
  body: "'GX Variations are long forgotten (they don\u2019t even work properly anymore
    in Mac OS X\u2019s up-to-date text engine, CoreText that is)'\r\n\r\nCurrently,
    Intaglio and Freeway can access Skia Light Condensed through to Extra Bold Extended
    and everything in between, all by dragging sliders. When CoreText is released,
    will this capability be missing?  \r\n\r\n'spent a whole afternoon with Dave Opstad,
    and he explained me GX Variations and other aspects GX. That was the first time
    I developed a grasp of that'\r\n\r\nWow\u2014you're a lucky chap. Would you like
    to share your knowledge?\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-21 13:27:46'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I have Freeway, Skia and Leopard (which includes CoreText). GX Variations
    may be forgotten, but they seem to still work.
  created: '2007-12-21 14:02:34'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I also note that there are 10 different weights listed for Skia, but only
    one font file. So, presumably, the weights are created synthetically by the OS
    for other programs where the sliders are absent. (Only Regular is available in
    Adobe CS and other non-Cocoa apps, though.)
  created: '2007-12-21 14:24:17'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"to me, \u201Cthe tools available at the time\u201D *are* the technology,
    realistically.\"\r\nThat's a reasonable late adapter's viewpoint, but 'realistically',
    where is the future in that attitude? Illustrator and a text editor were not PostScript
    the technology. Royal-T (the original Truetype hint and contour editor), was not
    TrueType the technology. \r\n\r\n\"Type 1 would be just another font format if
    it were not for Fontographer.\"\r\nThat's a nice typocentric thought. If Type
    1 wasn't the high quality font format of PostScript, and PostScript wasn't by
    far the dominating force in Type 1's rise, it'd be true. Besides which, Fontographer
    came first, a published Type 1 specification came second.\r\n\r\n\"GX Variations
    are long forgotten...\"\r\nYou'd have to redefine long and forgotten, or say Hi
    to Ian! and then there's Erik's work, which thankfully took long by my definition
    and forgot nothing, so far as I can find... but there's always time. ;)\r\n\r\n\"...the
    tools to make fonts in that format were awkward.\"\r\nI don't find this to be
    the case at all. Can you compare and contrast Superpolator and Mutator from experience
    please? \r\n\r\n\"GX Variations had the concept of \u201Cstart at the middle and
    imagine the ends\u201D\"\r\nThat nothing in the past, or now, can 'imagine' ends,
    is certain. One actually draws the middle and may or may not draw ends in GX variations,
    or in Superpolator. But without at least a middle and one end (as one can probably
    imagine), there is no space for in-between, or for extrapolation outside.\r\n\r\nContrasting
    this with MM, and reaching a clear understanding in a proper framework of open-mindedness,
    typographic knowledge and with the aid of visuals, is obviously needed. I'll try
    to do a skit of something at Typo, which seems to have all those capabilities
    in a conference environment :-)\r\n\r\nThe important things for designers of type
    to know, is that Superpolator has all of the advantages of GX Variations, a fabulous
    interface, it is OS current, it can make MMs like a slicer makes bread, or make
    Superpolations like MMs if a slice that is a whole loaf of bread is what one wants...
    and it is ufo compliant.\r\n\r\nCheers! and considering the time of year, additional
    Cheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-21 15:36:30'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<cite>MM had the concept of \u201Cstart at the ends and imagine the middle\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    may have been the concept but it is not how you have to use it. You can simply
    start designing a regular and then extend the design space only to one side, by
    adding a bold, for example. This would be \"starting in the middle and extending
    towards one end\", without having to imagine anything. It is my impression that
    many, if not most designers work in that way."
  created: '2007-12-21 18:04:58'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "David, \r\n\r\nby saying \u201Cto me, \u201Cthe tools available at the time\u201D
    *are* the technology, realistically,\u201D I meant that the today's current support
    in tools is the primary aspect of judging the value of a technology. Of course,
    every now and then, I gladly take out the glass ball from my drawer and play the
    visionary, and do some speculations and, hm, extrapolations. But realistically,
    if Fontographer had not been as brilliant as it was, and Royal T had been better
    (at the time), TrueType might have outdistanced Type 1 long time ago. If the market
    had 1000s of quality TrueType fonts and only a handful Type 1s, Adobe would have
    implemented proper TrueType support in PostScript earlier (and yet, they did,
    after all, anyway). \r\n\r\nRoyal T was free, and still, you told me that you
    preferred Fontographer Q. \r\n\r\n> Can you compare and contrast Superpolator
    and Mutator from experience please? \r\n\r\nI can't. I've never seen Mutator and
    I was not allowed to obtain a copy of Superpolator 2 when it was released. But
    from what EvB said last week I gather he thinks Superpolator is better than the
    old GX Variations drawing tools (I presume that was Mutator). \r\n\r\n>> GX Variations
    are long forgotten... \r\n> You\u2019d have to redefine long and forgotten, \r\n\r\nDan
    Fenwick, currently one of the principal engineers on Apple's text engines, says:
    \"As I explained at the last WWDC, ATSUI is actually a very old technology that
    is getting very difficult to shim new technology into so we are strongly advocating
    developers use Cocoa and/or CoreText moving forward.\" and \"CoreText also has
    nearly all the support for AAT table layout that ATSUI has (only the very obscure
    AAT stuff is missing that nearly no one notices)\" [1]\r\n\r\nCoreText does use
    other GX/AAT aspects like the morx tables, allowing the use of small-caps, swashes,
    old-style numerals etc. \u2014 but not Variations. GX Variations (\"the sliders\",
    gvar table) work in ATSUI but they never worked in AppKit or CoreText. So my guess
    is that the Variations are one of the things that the Apple engineer described
    as \"very obscure AAT stuff that nearly no one notices\". \r\n\r\nTextEdit used
    AppKit and in 10.5 uses CoreText, and I believe Keynote still uses AppKit. Apple
    once made an alternative to TextEdit called WorldText which used ATSUI, allowing
    the use of GX Variations. The app was included on the Developer disk up to Mac
    OS X 10.3 but was dropped since 10.4 on, and the older versions of WorldText crash
    when one tries to run them on 10.4 or 10.5. \r\n\r\nApple is actively advocating
    people to move away from ATSUI, the only environment that supports GX Variations.
    They no longer ship apps that use GX Variations (even for demo purposes). So,
    Variations are supported in the sense of \"yeah, it will still somehow work if
    you know what you're doing\" but not in the sense of \"here's a technology, use
    it, we'll tell you how\". \r\n\r\nMaybe I was too harsh saying \"long forgotten\".
    I should have said \"GX Variations started to sink some considerable time ago,
    there is nothing to stop it but they haven't touched the bottom yet.\"\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand, thumbs up for Superpolator. I'm glad to see that some of the Variations
    concepts resurfaced there, though obviously not in the same implementation details.
    \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n\r\n[1] http://lists.apple.com/archives/carbon-dev/2007/Nov/msg00014.html\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-21 20:55:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Adam, \"Royal T was free, and still, you told me that you preferred Fontographer
    Q.\" \r\nBetter Yet! Royal-T was free and I paid 1,000s to have Fog-Q developed!
    Drawing native TT and Generating TT point-accurate in my native application with
    my nice UI, was a priceless thing not so much a preference thing.\r\n\r\nAdam,
    \"...if Fontographer had not been []brilliant[], and Royal T had been better (at
    the time), TrueType might have outdistanced Type 1 long time ago...\" \r\n\r\n:\u2014\u2014)
    If Adobe had exhibited grace, instead of fearmongering at TT ..., if Apple and
    Adobe had (right then,1990) finished their respective integrations of TT and T1...
    if MS had completed its cooperation with Apple on TT, to this day...and, if Jobs
    had not come home and rearranged the furniture, maybe...but that's a lot of ifs.
    I'm sad to have to tell you, you having been in school for the first 1/2 of this,
    that slowing, de-standardizing and dumbing down TT as it rose into popular use
    took a rather broad and semi-disconcerted effort that Fontographer had little
    to do with in general, (and from day 1 of FOG's generation of TT...FOG was a non-factor
    in keeping TT down).\r\n\r\nBut, regardless of how dumb TT has got for the end
    user, (and TT's only a single dimension worth of hints away from dumb-as-T1, but
    lighter, for billions of PC users, with Mac users employing around 98% dumb-as-T1
    type, but darker), how dumb should the general Type Designer's tools be at recording
    variations of a design? I guess the answer is a firm and general, dumb as T1 MM
    1.0. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-12-27 14:47:11'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: Many thanks Miguel for the expand master technique - - a real lifesaver.
  created: '2008-07-19 23:49:26'
date: '2007-12-11 11:34:52'
title: Nodes in MM-fonts

---
