---
author:
  name: missgiggles
  picture: 111889
body: i.e. Saatchi and Saatchi etc? Do you work in an advertising agency? How many
  women make up this industry approximately?
comments:
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I'm sure that less than 1% of women work in advertising agencies.\r\n\r\nBut
    perhaps you're really wondering what percentage of advertising agencies' employees
    are women?\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-12-14 17:55:53'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> How many women make up this industry approximately?\r\n\r\n50% +- (even
    more) "
  created: '2007-12-14 18:09:05'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Thomas, you made my day.\r\nDid you know? More than 50% of all women are
    female!"
  created: '2007-12-14 18:49:06'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: Generally working as creative designers.
  created: '2007-12-14 18:57:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I would say the majority of working graphic designers are now women. I have
    no empirical evidence. I have been to numerous design offices and can just say
    that somewhere along the way in recent years, women seem to have increased in
    numbers in the field.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-14 19:11:47'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: I think you should be doing your own research for your dissertation.
  created: '2007-12-14 19:16:30'
- author:
    name: Shu
    picture: 109463
  body: "There are definitely more women than there used to be working in ad agencies,
    probably nearing a 50/50 mark. However, it depends on whether or not you are only
    interested in the design aspect or the company as a whole. I find that Creative
    Directors are often still men, there tends to be more women Associate Creative
    Directors, near split in Art Directors and slightly more men in Senior Designer
    roles. But, beyond design there are predominantly more women in other roles -
    account managers, traffic managers, HR, etc.\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-14 19:35:10'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: That cuz women kick butt! :^D Seriously, before I moved to San Jose I was
    working in an agency.
  created: '2007-12-14 19:44:03'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Generally working as creative designers.\"\r\n\r\nGiven then only perhaps
    10% of designers in ad agencies are creative, I'd say that leaves us with about
    5% of employees in ad agencies are female creative designers."
  created: '2007-12-14 20:25:01'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: By the way of those 50% women, some of them are not women at all --
  created: '2007-12-14 20:33:44'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: 'Old joke: So how many are working here? About half.'
  created: '2007-12-14 20:44:18'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<em>I think you should be doing your own research for your dissertation.</em>\r\n\r\nIsn't
    asking for your opinion research? :\xAC)\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2007-12-14 21:24:17'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "@Jackie T: Why's that?\r\n\r\n@russellm: I'd agree with that a little. \r\n\r\n@missgiggles:
    You could always start calling ad agencies and ask. This would be a great way
    to get some real numbers."
  created: '2007-12-14 21:35:50'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Isn\u2019t asking for your opinion research? :\xAC)</cite>\r\n\r\nCite
    enough forums posts in the bibliography and nobody will bother to look them all
    up!"
  created: '2007-12-14 21:36:49'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "I do a bit of freelancing at agencies here, and as far as I can tell, women
    are more in the role of account managers etc or in the production side of things,
    just as Shu wrote. Very few seem to make it through the glass ceiling to get to
    the Creative Director or even Art Director level (I really don't know how to call
    all these jobs, they seem to changing every year!). Those who make it, are often
    given feminine accounts, such as cosmetics, clothing, maybe travel. Mind you,
    I used to work with a female art director for a petrol station chain, but even
    that was more about gardening tools and chocolate than petrol. There seems to
    be more female copywriters than art directors.\r\nAll this is just my gut feeling,
    no science about it. Ambitious young men get hired and promoted, when young women
    don't. I suppose the main reason is, that the young man is unlikely to go on maternity
    leave (here in Finland you can be absent up to about four years and still expect
    to have a job waiting for you)."
  created: '2007-12-14 22:03:26'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: Miss Tiffany - so many in creative possessions, I hate to generalize it, but
    have been gay. All my years as a typographer in New York - I had many great contacts
    with Art Directors, Creative Directors, Jr. Designers, Bullpen Designers, etc.
    etc. etc. -- and wow, what a great time!
  created: '2007-12-14 23:08:48'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: 'I have emailed about 20 ad agencies and no one has got back to me. '
  created: '2007-12-15 23:19:56'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "What Haley said. And research is not e-mailing 20 ad agencies.\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-16 07:28:22'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "Mili, your gut feeling might be right for Finland, but not the rest of the
    world. I am a girl and an art director in a major canadian agency. My main accounts
    are General Motors, Microsoft and Nestle. And I'm not an oddity\r\n\r\nMissgiggles
    who are you emailing? Most agencies have a general info email, and they probably
    won't answer your question because of the trouble you can get in when dealing
    with gender issues in advertising. Especially if it's a man doing the answering.
    Research what happened to Neil French. And another reason you probably aren't
    getting answers is because the general info lines usually go to someone who doesn't
    work in the creative department. \r\n\r\nPhoning is a much better way to get a
    hold of creative people. If you want I can give you some names of prominent female
    creative directors who would be willing to maybe answer your questions about women
    in advertising. "
  created: '2007-12-16 18:30:55'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "To actually try to answer the question.... My impression is that the majority
    of students studying graphic design these days are female, and my observation
    is that the majority of attendees at general graphic design sorts of conferences
    are female - maybe 60-65%?\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-12-16 20:20:41'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: There are industry journals and organizations out there that conduct yearly
    salary surveys and the like... Hint, hint...
  created: '2007-12-16 21:02:37'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: Ricardo you're a liar. The only way to get hard facts is to ask other people
    to guess!
  created: '2007-12-16 22:27:54'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Omigosh, Ms. Fiege, you have found me out!\r\n\r\n<em>< runs away and hides
    under a rock ></em>"
  created: '2007-12-16 23:44:02'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: once again, you've amazed me, jackie.
  created: '2007-12-17 01:51:53'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Jackie, they may be gay, but they are still women.
  created: '2007-12-17 07:54:17'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: HaleyFiege, Ricardo, the view must be great up there in your ivory tower...
  created: '2007-12-17 07:54:22'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Chuck,\r\n\r\nAre you still getting over nipple fonts? I hope you response
    means in a positive way... I can't take much more in negative statements this
    year. I think my quota was used up.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile Ricardo, yes, a gay male
    who dresses and feels like a woman will refer to themselves as a woman. But when
    it comes to choosing a public restroom...."
  created: '2007-12-17 11:50:11'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I have emailed about 20 ad agencies and no one has got back to me.\"\r\n\r\nIMHO,
    ad agencies still don't get the internet. ;o)\r\n\r\nI'd suggest calling them
    directly and ask to speak to an HR rep within the organization who could probably
    directly assist you with these types of questions.\r\n\r\nDo report back...it
    would be interesting information."
  created: '2007-12-17 16:34:30'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Meanwhile Ricardo, yes, a gay male who dresses and feels like a woman
    will refer to themselves as a woman.</em>\r\n\r\nOh, sorry, Jackie -- I thought
    you were refering to lesbians! My misinterpretation.\r\n\r\n:-/"
  created: '2007-12-17 16:44:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "After you have figured out who's going which way, don't forget to adjust
    your statistics to reflect the overall imbalance of male and female in the population...\r\n\r\nAnd
    then we can move on to agism--is it true they eat their young in ad agencies,
    and cast the merely middle-aged into the wilderness?"
  created: '2007-12-17 16:55:21'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Chris G said... <em>the view must be great up there in your ivory tower</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    mean it's delusional to expect students to do their own research rather than to
    try to get all of the answers on various internet forums? Last I heard, profs
    still expect the former from their students."
  created: '2007-12-17 16:57:34'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: Can you image actually living in an ivory tower though? It would be impossible
    to keep clean.
  created: '2007-12-17 17:45:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Think of all the poor elephants who be without tusks just to build one?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-17 18:27:45'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>Think of all the poor elephants who be without tusks just to build
    one?</em>\r\n\r\nYes, Chris, but in Alabama the Tuscaloosa!\r\n\r\nBut seriously
    folks... I will try to get actual stats from where I work (Mullen.com). We're
    part of InterPublic, who owns several major agencies.\r\n\r\nFrom current view
    here at Mullen, I would say women hold 50%-60% of position nearly across the board
    (except for the \"Board\"). We do have a couple of managing partners who are female."
  created: '2007-12-17 18:51:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I was hoping that comment would bring you, Norbert! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-17 19:11:15'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "It did, Chris.\r\nNothing better to liven the day than the Marx Brothers
    or questions from Miss Giggles!  ;^)"
  created: '2007-12-17 19:16:46'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "I work at Maclaren MRM Worldwide - part of InterPublic as well! \r\n\r\n*technically
    coworkers high five*"
  created: '2007-12-17 19:19:09'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: Huzzah! Howdy Haley!
  created: '2007-12-17 19:21:52'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "The current Pharma. Ad. firm I'm doing freelance for ( www.hlg.com ) is primarily
    female in the creative dept. We have two Creative Directors, one is female. 3
    Art Directors, two are female. One full time designer, also female and a studio
    manager, also female. Then there's me!\r\n\r\nOh and Hello! (Seriously need to
    get back to this board more often.)"
  created: '2007-12-17 21:08:45'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Norbert, Haley... until July I was at DraftFCB in New York... Also part of
    -- you guessed it! -- InterPublic. In fact, some of my co-workers from Draft ended
    up at MRM's NY offices.
  created: '2007-12-17 22:16:19'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Haley said... <em>Can you image actually living in an ivory tower though?
    It would be impossible to keep clean.</em>\r\n\r\nChris said... <em>Think of all
    the poor elephants who be without tusks just to build one?</em>\r\n\r\nTusk-tusk,
    we wouldn't want that!\r\n\r\n(Sorry, I just couldn't resist.)"
  created: '2007-12-17 22:20:47'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Okay guys - for my original comment that not all of the 50% women are women
    - I was referring to the gay GUYS in the offices who do a lot of creative work
    and consider themselves women. Hope that clears it up. Never knew it could have
    been interpreted any other way... but hey, these are typed words - not verbally
    expressed ones.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile...\r\nNick Shinn wrote:\r\n<em>And then we can
    move on to agism\u2014is it true they eat their young in ad agencies, and cast
    the merely middle-aged into the wilderness?</em>\r\n\r\nI'd just like to add my
    comment -- growing up with designers in the publishing world this was the case.
    By 30 they were either made an Art Director and knew that they had found the right
    house to stay in until retirement -- or they were cast out into the world of freelance
    only to be seen during occasional lunches or cocktail parties. \r\n\r\nI wonder
    if Ad agencies were the same.\r\n\r\nI only worked with one in New York City -
    it was a trade to trade house - to it wasn't as crazy as the ad agencies selling
    to the general public. There the art dept. consisted of 4 people. All males -
    and three of them had the title of Art Director. I still remember the day the
    Mac computers were delivered..."
  created: '2007-12-17 22:24:32'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>I\u2019d just like to add my comment \u2014 growing up with designers
    in the publishing world this was the case. By 30 they were either made an Art
    Director and knew that they had found the right house to stay in until retirement
    \u2014 or they were cast out into the world of freelance only to be seen during
    occasional lunches or cocktail parties.</cite>\r\n\r\nTotally disagree. One of
    the things I like about publishing is that it is NOT youth-quake oriented, and
    in fact age and experience are appreciated and respected. I was made Art Director
    at 30 but that was considered very young, and they let me know they felt they
    were taking a gamble on me cuz of my age (luckily it worked out). Five years later
    I lost an AD position at another publisher because I was too young. You find designers
    and editors of all ages working in publishing."
  created: '2007-12-17 22:52:36'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "I hadn't thought about this until now, but in my two years', three jobs'
    worth of experience, I've only ever been hired or worked under women. In terms
    of about 30 close colleagues, my breakdown is 8 male to 21 female. The place I
    work now is owned by two women and is WBENC certified.\r\n\r\nNot a representative
    sample by any means, I'm sure, but those are my numbers. "
  created: '2007-12-17 23:03:46'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: "<cite>You mean it\u2019s delusional to expect students to do their own research
    rather than to try to get all of the answers on various internet forums? Last
    I heard, profs still expect the former from their students.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhy
    not canvass opinion from a resource like this? Typophile's members can always
    be relied on to explore a topic in thought provoking and relevant ways. You have
    a narrow definition of research. \r\n\r\nNorbert, Chris: Getting planning permission
    for an ivory tower these days is even more of a task than rounding up the elephants
    ;-)"
  created: '2007-12-17 23:06:18'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: "Oh, and for the record:\r\n\r\nMy place has a design team of 7. \r\n\r\n2
    junior designers (male), 2 middleweight designers (male), 2 senior designers (female),
    1 studio manager (male)."
  created: '2007-12-17 23:11:51'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Why not canvass opinion from a resource like this? Typophile\u2019s members
    can always be relied on to explore a topic in thought provoking and relevant ways.
    You have a narrow definition of research.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, Chris, there is nothing
    inherently wrong with getting opinion from this or any other forum... That's not
    what I was saying.\r\n\r\n< <em>goes back under his rock</em> >\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-18 00:04:09'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Chris, Ricardo is just observing a pattern... relying on this forum to provide
    subjective information that can objectively be found elsewhere, through research.
  created: '2007-12-18 00:24:09'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Patty, I think Chris has missed my point, which was about laziness. Surely
    you can see that.
  created: '2007-12-18 00:51:38'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: Yes Ricardo - I'm sure Patty does and so do many others. Afterall, we are
    familiar with the helping the creator of this thread with all her school projects
    in the past. :-)
  created: '2007-12-18 03:04:01'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Or not, as the case may be....  ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-18 04:39:32'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Thanks, Linda -- I am truly appreciative of your comment!  :-)\r\n\r\nGood
    night, all... < <em>Exits with a flourish.</em> >"
  created: '2007-12-18 04:49:43'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Doesn't Communication Arts publish these types of numbers annually? (United
    States data only, I think.)\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-19 07:13:12'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: You know I seem to recall <a href="http://www.aquent.com/">Aquent</a> doing
    something about this now that you mention that.
  created: '2007-12-19 16:01:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "AIGA and Aquent did it jointly, I believe. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-19 16:13:23'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Wow, Jackie, that was a highly offensive comment. I'm sure the lesbians of
    Typophile will be surprised to discover that they are not, in fact, women.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-12-20 07:57:56'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Thomas -\r\n\r\nI don't think you read it right at all.\r\n\r\nOf the 50%
    woman - not are all women - because some are GAY ARTISTS - meaning MALES.\r\n\r\nSome
    of them - are known to cross dress. If you have ever been friends with one - you
    would find out, they think like women, consider themselves women -- they just
    can't go to a woman's bathroom in public without risking a fine.\r\n\r\nSo please
    Thomas - tell me how that is offensive?\r\n\r\nI am not the one who mentioned
    or even thought of lesbians. Ricardo did - and then apologized. He wrote <em>\"Oh,
    sorry, Jackie \u2014 I thought you were refering to lesbians! My misinterpretation.\"</em>\r\n\r\nSo
    I am sorry I did not write it in simple English -- but I know that when I explained
    what I wrote - Ricardo got it.\r\n\r\nWhy didn't you?\r\n\r\nSo to be absolutely
    clear and put in the easiest terms I possibly can. Maybe that will help you.\r\n\r\nIn
    the creative fields there are many who were born as men, but believe they are
    woman. So of work places when you say 50% are woman - you might find yourself
    including those born as males but believe they are woman in that count.\r\n\r\nClear
    now?\r\n\r\nAfter all, they do believe they are woman. Would you deny them their
    beliefs? I don't."
  created: '2007-12-20 12:15:02'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<em>In the creative fields there are many who were born as men, but believe
    they are woman. So of work places when you say 50% are woman - you might find
    yourself including those born as males but believe they are woman in that count.\r\n\r\nClear
    now?</em>\r\n\r\nPriceless. "
  created: '2007-12-20 13:42:19'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>I am not the one who mentioned or even thought of lesbians. Ricardo did
    - and then apologized.</em>\r\n\r\nJackie, I still think that your original comment:
    <em>By the way of those 50% women, some of them are not women at all \u2014</em>
    was confusing. At least three people (Tiffany, me, and now Thomas) were confused
    by it and needed further explanation of what you meant. :-)"
  created: '2007-12-20 14:10:14'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "I'm with Thomas on this one. It is offensive and extremely stereotypical
    to suggest that gays want to be women. A very small percentage of gay males regularly
    dress as women (Hallowe'en excepted, perhaps). And these cross dressers do not
    _want to be female_. They would react as negatively to that idea as most men would.
    The just like dressing in female attire, but know all the time that they are men
    pulling a charade.\r\n\r\nThe only males who would seriously want to be female
    are transsexuals (I include here the category transgendered), and these people
    (who feel they were born into the wrong gender) represent a small fraction of
    1% of all gays.\r\n\r\nI consider the suggestion that all gay males want to be
    women to be the equivalent to suggesting that all blacks are criminals, just because
    a small fraction of blacks have been convicted of a crime."
  created: '2007-12-20 14:17:54'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>I consider the suggestion that all gay males want to be women to be
    the equivalent to suggesting that all blacks are criminals, just because a small
    fraction of blacks have been convicted of a crime.</cite>\r\n\r\nor that all designers
    are \"arrogant, bitter and often very negative.\" to quote another thread.\r\n\r\nJackie
    - I have to agree that you are on some very slippery ground here.\r\n\r\nDepressingly,
    I heard Barack Obama give a speech a few weeks ago in which he said that more
    young black men are in prison than in college."
  created: '2007-12-20 14:49:11'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: 'It may be either important or irrelevant (depending on your views) to consider
    that [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Legal_aspects_of_transsexualism|legal recognition
    of transexualism]] varies from country to country (or state to state, as in America).
    So while one person might identify with a specific sex/gender on a questionnaire,
    legally he or she could still be considered a different sex/gender. '
  created: '2007-12-20 14:49:56'
- author:
    name: LogoMotives
    picture: 110231
  body: "Back to missgiggles original question:\r\n\r\nThe <a href=http://www.aaf.org/>American
    Advertising Federation</a> may be able to provide some information or suggest
    research resources.\r\n\r\n\r\nJeff Fisher | Engineer of Creative Identity | <a
    href=http://www.jfisherlogomotives.com>Jeff Fisher LogoMotives</url>"
  created: '2007-12-20 16:39:24'
- author:
    name: LogoMotives
    picture: 110231
  body: "I'm a gay guy, have worked in advertising agencies and have never considered
    myself a woman - or wanted to be one (nor have any of the gay men I have known
    during my 30 years of working in the industry).  I do find Jackie T's comment
    offensive and ignorant.  \r\n\r\nGender identity, sexual orientation and cross
    dressing just for the sake of having pleasure from wearing women's clothing (done
    by many self-identified \"straight\" males BTW), and dressing as a \"drag queen\"
    for entertainment purposes are VERY different issues.\r\n\r\n\r\nJeff Fisher |
    Engineer of Creative Identity | <a href=http://www.jfisherlogomotives.com>Jeff
    Fisher LogoMotives</url>"
  created: '2007-12-20 16:52:32'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>Back to missgiggles original question:</cite>\r\n\r\nI would guess
    that far less than 1% of women work in advertising agencies.\r\n\r\nAnd I now
    see that Thomas made this observation previously. Pointless post FTL."
  created: '2007-12-20 17:08:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Trans-gender people are not necessarily gay or lesbian. It is a whole other
    issue.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-20 17:47:09'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I was in P-town for a wedding (a legal gay wedding) and it was \"Tall Ships\"
    weekend. The town was crawling with straight men dressed in women's clothes, often
    with their wives. They were not drag queens, the clothing was not flamboyant or
    campy, and it was not always a pretty sight. Ya gotta credit the wives for being
    supportive.\r\n\r\nGender identity and sexual preference are not the same thing,
    although they are often conflated."
  created: '2007-12-20 18:07:01'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Yes, it is slippery ground. However, spending more than 20 years in New York
    City working with art directors of all types and being very active social with
    so many (many of whom are now 6 feet under) I can guarantee you, they would not
    be offended - they'd be laughing. \r\n\r\nI'm sorry, this is really all on how
    we were raise, the tolerance levels we've set for ourselves, our friends and yes,
    something America has forgotten, our sense of humor.\r\n\r\nSorry you've not experience
    the life I have and I am sorry I've not experience yours. Among my dear departed
    friends this would have been another thing to laugh out. Maybe you should have
    been a fly on the wall at our lunches -- then you'd know what offensive meant!\r\n\r\nFrom
    an old, tired typographer - if I should have offended anyone, I'm sorry -- but
    that was not the case or intention.\r\n\r\nGuess I'm also tired of political correctness
    - so Happy Hanukah, Merry Christmas, Merry Kwanza and of course, Happy New Year
    and Chinese New Year to all."
  created: '2007-12-20 20:40:13'
- author:
    name: LogoMotives
    picture: 110231
  body: "It's certainly not a question of me not having a sense of humor.  I just
    have a problem when anyone puts misconceptions and generalizations - about any
    group of individuals - out there in such a public manner.  The problem is there
    are a large number of people who buy into such misinformation as the truth about
    the group being discussed without a second thought.\r\n\r\nFor me the treatment
    of gays, lesbians, transgendered and others determined to be \"different\" by
    employers or co-workers is no laughing matter.  In 1985 I was fired from a job
    - with an advertising agency - for no other reason than being gay.  The owner
    was \"uncomfortable\" having a gay male working in his office. At the time I had
    no legal recourse.  In fact, today in over half the states in the U.S. that is
    still the case.\r\n\r\n\"Dear departed friends\" had little to do with some of
    the earlier comments posted.  However, in honor of mine, I always address inappropriate
    or false comments about gays, lesbians and others when they are made in any public
    situation. I certainly don't need to be subtly reminded of gay history in this
    country - I've lived it.\r\n\r\nHappy holidays to all, as well.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nJeff
    Fisher | Engineer of Creative Identity | <a href=http://www.jfisherlogomotives.com>Jeff
    Fisher LogoMotives</url>"
  created: '2007-12-20 23:21:11'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "jeff-\r\nwell said."
  created: '2007-12-21 00:05:49'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Dangerous gases indeed.
  created: '2007-12-21 02:27:22'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Miss G, I think you are misinterpreting. Jackie was not addressing you specifically
    when she made that comment... Go back and read it in context.
  created: '2008-01-01 17:48:11'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Thank you Ricardo.\r\n\r\nMiss Giggles - without meeting a person, seeing
    their face, their expressions, etc. you really haven't a clue as to how or what
    was said. Words are wonderful, and can always be taken out of context.\r\n\r\nFortunately
    this world is made up of so many different types of people - each with their own
    experiences that help shape them and mold them. My sense of humor does not seem
    to be particularly cared for by a few here - yet, I'm sure if they knew me and
    we were sitting around over some coffee or wine - we'd be the best of friends
    quickly.\r\n\r\nSo, Miss Giggles, I hope you take Ricardo's advice, reread this
    thread, including my explanation of my humor -- and understand - there was no
    bullying of any type going on.\r\n\r\nAnd on that note - I think I'm done with
    this thread.\r\n\r\nAnd I wish all of you a wonderful, happy, healthy new year."
  created: '2008-01-01 17:55:00'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: ":O\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/funny-pictures-cat-pwns-dog_3478.jpg]"
  created: '2008-01-01 17:56:17'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: do as thou wilt, miss g...
  created: '2008-01-01 18:02:29'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>its HER saying she has done all my projects for me!</em>\r\n\r\nOh, you
    mean this?:\r\n\r\nJackie said... <em>we are familiar with the helping the creator
    of this thread with all her school projects in the past</em>\r\n\r\nWell, Miss
    G, Jackie's actually saying that we've all <em>helped</em> you with your school
    projects... That is not the same as <em>doing</em> them, is it? And be honest
    with yourself: you have actually asked people to come up with ideas for your schoolwork
    in the past, so you can't honestly be offended by a comment like that...\r\n\r\nI
    assure you that I am not bullying you when I say this, it's just some advice:
    read things a bit more carefully, and think things over before writing something
    down and hitting the \"Post\" button... It will save you a lot of trouble and
    lead to better communication."
  created: '2008-01-01 20:30:03'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"You guys just defend each other on here. You just don\u2019t want any new
    comers do you? It must be an age thing!\"\r\n\r\nThe reason threads you start
    end up this way is that you tend to come in with a rather 'hot button' topic and
    pitch in with a bit of bias. As such, you are likely going to stir up a heated
    conversation. \r\n\r\nI don't think this has anything to do with your age...I
    don't think most of us have any idea how old anyone is in here.\r\n\r\nThat said,
    your last 4 or 5 comments clearly make you appear to be around 12 years old.\r\n\r\nIn
    the end, if you ask a question looking for free advice/opinions, don't be picky
    about the results."
  created: '2008-01-02 14:24:46'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: Woah.
  created: '2008-01-03 00:01:12'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: wow
  created: '2008-01-03 00:39:57'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "@Miss Giggles:\r\nI already mentioned it in another thread, but you are crossing
    the line. Your personal attacks (all completely irrelevant, out of context and
    immature) will not be tolerated here. Consider this a warning.\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-03 00:57:40'
- author:
    name: robbiefa
    picture: 113487
  body: 'wow this got out of hand fast... its like watching a soap opera! '
  created: '2008-01-03 01:18:25'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "@Miss Giggles:\r\nIf you want to discuss it, we can do so offline, but keep
    it out of the forums.\r\ntypophile < at > punchcut dot com."
  created: '2008-01-03 01:19:20'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: '[No comment]'
  created: '2008-01-06 12:17:22'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: Hmm...
  created: '2008-01-06 12:17:51'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: ok...
  created: '2008-01-06 12:18:30'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: ok
  created: '2008-01-06 12:18:58'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: '...'
  created: '2008-01-06 12:19:37'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: "Yup.\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-06 12:19:59'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: hmm...
  created: '2008-01-06 12:20:33'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: No comment.
  created: '2008-01-06 12:21:16'
date: '2007-12-14 17:50:41'
node_type: forum
title: What % of women work in advertising agencies?

---
