---
author:
  name: marosi_lorant
body: "here is the new logo i have made based more or less on your suggestions. i`m
  curious about  new critiques for this one :)\r\n\r\nP.S. the motto is about to born...i
  guess :))[img:sites/default/files/old-images/new logo 2_5252.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: Scott Leyes
    picture: 112337
  body: "\"What's a motto?\"\r\n\r\n--\"Nothin'... Wat's a-motta wit' you?\"\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-20 20:24:23'
- author:
    name: Tintin81
    picture: 112693
  body: "Hmm I cannot see much, because the letters are cut off at the bottom... Is
    this your intention?\r\n\r\n[[http://www.designbits.de|Web Design Hamburg]]"
  created: '2007-12-20 20:47:49'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "\"and right over here is the viaduct.\"\r\n\"i donno -- you tell me. why
    a duck?\"\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-20 21:31:01'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Marosi dude, for a graphic desing firm your new logo lacks the following:\r\n*
    a clever design idea\r\n* a cleverly-designed, contemporary typeface\r\n* the
    current zeitgeist\r\n* coolness\r\n* subtlety\r\n\r\nAll of these qualities are
    essential to the logo of a graphic design firm to show potential customers the
    brilliant and appealing nature of what you are going to do for them. The red squiggle
    looks just like the meaningless scribble used in the logos of sign-making companies
    employing tradesmen as ersatz designers. If you must include a hand-scrawled element,
    abstract is okay but make it an <em>artful</em> abstract squiggle suggesting something
    specific.\r\n\r\nThe whole thing might work better if the type is colored and
    the abstract part in black.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-20 22:27:22'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "I think it still lacks cohesiveness,as it did in the early version, but in
    a different way.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MAROSI_3757.jpg]"
  created: '2007-12-20 22:51:16'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "cohesiveness\r\n\r\noh damn, now it looks even more like a \"posh European
    furniture store\"\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/marosi_angel_5814.gif]\r\n\r\nthat's
    all I could come up with in two minutes.\r\n\r\nj a m e s\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-21 07:34:12'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "james - don't be hatin'. if we're no longer free to improperly grammatize,
    then those who would threaten our way of life have already won.\r\n\r\nanyway.
    i like your type use above. i was just trying to see where m's logo might go using
    the same building blocks."
  created: '2007-12-21 13:13:02'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "No stress Chuck, I thrive on improper grammar and was being silly. I get
    so sick of having to write everything properly.\r\n\r\n<em>i like your type use
    above.</em>\r\n\r\nThanks, the color is uneven in \"morosi\", but I suppose it's
    eye-catching overall.\r\n\r\n<em>i was just trying to see where m\u2019s logo
    might go using the same building blocks.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm trying to persuade him
    to use a different font. But don't mind me, keep going with those same building
    blocks. The font I used hasn't even been released yet.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-21 14:18:01'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "james- don't look now, but you just switched from a train to a cat.\r\n\r\nseveral
    years ago, my nephew (three at the time) insisted he was going to be a train when
    he grew up. later that year, he decided he would grow into a bear instead (better
    career opportunities?). \r\n\r\nhappy transformation."
  created: '2007-12-21 15:08:35'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Cheers! When I was three I wanted to be a gleaming metal rocket ship when
    I grew up, but my parental units said it would be too dangerous and expensive.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-21 15:16:45'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Marosi, you need to try and start simple. That means no circa 1985 flourishes
    and script, no custom type, and don\u2019t even work with color until everything
    else is done."
  created: '2007-12-21 15:32:38'
- author:
    name: marosi_lorant
  body: "dear james,\r\n\r\nthe logo you have come up with is - no `fence - worse
    than mine. it has nothing that suggest a design firm. At all. rather a law firm.
    or whatever else but not a design firm. As you said a design firm logo needs the
    following: \r\n<<* a clever design idea\r\n  * a cleverly-designed, contemporary
    typeface\r\n  * the current zeitgeist\r\n  * coolness\r\n  * subtlety\r\n\r\nAll
    of these qualities are essential to the logo of a graphic design firm to show
    potential customers the brilliant and appealing nature of what you are going to
    do for them.>> \r\n\r\ni can`t find any of these in that logo. the same goes to
    chuckgroth, too.\r\n\r\ni`m not saying that the suggestions are not good. the
    suggestions are great and thanks for them but don`t make something that has nothing
    to do with your theories.   \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-21 18:00:13'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I want to contribute, but am wondering what the logo is for exactly.
  created: '2007-12-21 18:07:04'
- author:
    name: marosi_lorant
  body: it`s for a design firm/agency
  created: '2007-12-21 18:11:06'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>...i can\u2018t find any of these in that logo. the same goes to chuckgroth,
    too.\r\n\r\ni\u2018m not saying that the suggestions are not good. the suggestions
    are great and thanks for them but don\u2018t make something that has nothing to
    do with your theories.</em>\r\n\r\nWell gee whiz dude, I think we're on a different
    wavelength to the one you are on---no offense. By the way, the \"logo\" I posted
    is nothing more than a dummy I threw together in two minutes with little or no
    thought. It was not intended as finished artwork or a finished logo design. Nor
    did I claim it embodies any or all of the qualities listed as essential for a
    design agency logo. I was working on Chuck's suggestion of \"cohesiveness\". Mainly
    I wanted to show the potential of using another type. You don't have to use a
    font like the one I used.\r\n\r\nTry a font of recent design/release. James P
    is right about the circa 1985 reference. The square font is out of step chronologically,
    lacking a contemporary feel. As for not using color in the development stage:
    I've designed logos in monochrome and added color later, and done other logos
    working with color from the start, and the results were equally good.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-21 18:37:42'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I kind of disagree that a design firm needs a 'cool/clever' logo. A lot of
    the big firms have a very simple word mark. Sometimes simple is better... it doesn't
    pigeon hole you nor competes with the product you produce.\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-21 18:44:00'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Good point Darrel. A design firm can go either way---neutral or trendy---depending
    on the philosophy of the designers or principals involved. A non-trendy logo will
    date much slower. I think it counts for a lot of cred tho if your design shop
    logo is at least clever to some extent (it doesn't have to be ultra-clever), because
    it works as an example of how you can be clever in presenting your client's image.\r\n\r\nIt
    helps too to come up with something \"bespoke\", a design that is original and
    cannot be found anywhere else (except by coincidence).\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-21 19:01:19'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>A lot of the big firms have a very simple word mark...</em>\r\n\r\nOkay,
    but does that mean simple word marks really are more effective for design agencies?
    Or is it just a trend with widespread acceptance? I've seen this kind of ergo
    hoc, prompter hoc argument in action at Wikipedia, \"Encylopedia Britannica doesn't
    distinguish between Western and Eastern typography, therefor why should Wikipedia?\"
    Answer: \"Just because the great EB does it that way does not make it right, or
    the best way.\"\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-21 19:06:47'
- author:
    name: vigorgraphics
    picture: 110655
  body: "The logo looks amateurish. The paint swoosh has been done over and over and
    over again. Is there a reason for the letters to be cut off?\r\n\r\nForm always
    should follow function. So, what kind of firm are you? Are you specializing? What
    sets you apart? Figure out answers to those questions and use them to guide your
    design.\r\n\r\nIt's not a horrible start, but it's far from over my friend. Back
    to the drawing board.\r\n\r\n\r\nJoseph Szala\r\nVigor - an interactive branding
    strategy firm\r\nwww.vigorbranding.com\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-21 20:31:52'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "sorry, ml. didn't mean to offer ideas where they aren't wanted.\r\n\r\nyour
    logo is perfect. go with it. don't let anyone talk you out of it."
  created: '2007-12-21 22:16:08'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Well said Chuck. Marosi brothers is (presumably) a small design firm. Simple
    workmarks are appropriate for large agencies, but for a small outfit there's room
    for individuality.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-22 02:39:47'
- author:
    name: cjeder
    picture: 113656
  body: "Frankly, I think you have something workable at the core of the design.  First
    you should get rid of all the excess elements (squiggle, \"brothers\") and build
    off your name.  \r\n\r\n  [img:sites/default/files/old-images/nl_alone_5416.jpg]\r\n\r\nBoiled
    down, this design has some assets you can use.  It is well proportioned, looks
    very stable, but still a bit esoteric (it looks like OCR text at the bottom of
    a soviet check).    If this is what you are going for I would focus on polishing
    what you have.  As angular as the type is, the variation in the width in the letters
    makes it look a bit too random.  I would tweak the width of the letters (the m
    needs to be narrower and the o looks like it is shrinking as compared to the a)
    After that I would open up the letter spacing a tad, then see what you have."
  created: '2007-12-22 17:33:43'
- author:
    name: roark
  body: "James E. Richards\r\nAll lower case is a style that is beyond criticism.
    Hoping you will greturn to clarity. The red \"M\" is great, tho."
  created: '2007-12-22 18:34:58'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>First you should get rid of all the excess elements (squiggle, \u201Cbrothers\u201D)
    and build off your name.</em>\r\n\r\nWe've already been thru that but it seems
    m. doesn't want to do it, or doesn't see the point in de-cluttering.\r\n\r\n<em>Boiled
    down, this design has some assets you can use.</em>\r\n\r\nAssets huh? Mmmm--Idunno.\r\n\r\n<em>It
    is well proportioned, looks very stable,</em>\r\n\r\nAmazing. Where do you get
    this stuff? How did you come up with that?\r\n\r\n<em>As angular as the type is,
    the variation in the width in the letters makes it look a bit too random.</em>\r\n\r\nToo
    random by whose standards? I'll concede the \"o\" looks a bit narrow by the standards
    of most proportional fonts. Other than that it's like most other fonts, containing
    letters of varying width in the time-honoured tradition. How that can be construed
    as undesirable reaches the margins of common sense.\r\n\r\n<em>After that I would
    open up the letter spacing a tad, then see what you have.</em>\r\n\r\nIt would
    be easier if you made those edits to the bitmap yourself and posted the result.
    No wait---I'll do it.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dude_4004.gif]\r\n\r\nOkay,
    done. Very hard to see the point tho.\r\n\r\n@James E. Richards: <em>The red \u201CM\u201D
    is great, tho.</em>\r\n\r\nYou mean the red m in marosi's icon, or the red dot
    in the logo?\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-22 22:19:28'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "i guess he means this \"m,\" but i have to disagree that it's 'great.'\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mm_4496.jpg]\r\n\r\nin
    any case, i think i'll move on to another thread."
  created: '2007-12-22 23:50:32'
- author:
    name: BjornH
    picture: 113585
  body: "If you are going to use a \"m\" as your symbol, maybe you could look to see
    if there are some \"m\" that is more \"brotherly\" than others?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mbrothers_5553.gif]"
  created: '2007-12-23 02:06:12'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Mmmmm, yes. I had one more idea for this logo. It's been around the block
    a few times. Even so it still has potential.\r\n\r\nMake M the main element. Turn
    it into a feature. You'll need a very good M for this, one with loads of merit,
    maybe even a clever one, bold, spunky, luscious---whatever. So long as it has
    the effect of being eye-catching. A decorative style M for example, something
    fancy or old. That's just one example. \r\n\r\nCombine the eye-catching M with
    the \"arosi\" letters in another font---something plain and functional in a style
    that goes with the brassy M. The contrast between the M and the plain letters
    alone should give an eye-catching effect.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-23 06:31:21'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "I found these two on the attic, lying  behind the christmas balls and gathering
    only dust.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/M1_6127.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/M2_6037.gif]"
  created: '2007-12-23 09:51:25'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Posting your own versions of a logo used to be taboo in the critique sections
    and I think the reasons are demonstrated in this thread, posters are offended,
    umbrage is taken, diversion from the subject, withdrawal in a huff (some of which
    are welcomed/entertaining in other forums), and yes, those can occur without the
    addition of images.\r\n\r\nTo go back to the original, the masked characters (not
    a particularly original concept) need, in my opinion, to be treated similarly
    throughout Marosi brothers, or at least to have some recognisable reason for the
    differences, at the moment the mask doesn\u2019t seem to be at quite the right
    point (or possibly angle). The combination of the vertically-biased letter forms
    and the mask doesn\u2019t work particularly well, if you tried a more \u201Cclassic\u201D
    letterform (sans or serif) and experimented you could mask quite a large amount
    from bootom and/or top, you wouldn't have to make allowances for the o and the
    m_r_i needn\u2019t appear unmasked. Alternatively you could work with the letterforms
    you have, but improve on them \u2013 the m and h are a little wide and the r a
    touch narrow, I think the t needs something too, it is too geometric to my eyes,
    maybe moving the crossbar so that it is less symmetrical."
  created: '2007-12-23 11:43:08'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Every thread ends in tears.
  created: '2007-12-23 19:32:22'
- author:
    name: j_p_giese
    picture: 110076
  body: "<em>\"Posting your own versions of a logo used to be taboo in the critique
    sections\"</em>\r\n\r\nI didn't know this (but I may either be not a frequent
    enough visitor of this board or not a member for long enough).\r\n\r\n<em>\"offense,
    umbrage, diversion, withdrawal in a huff...\r\nand yes, those can occur without
    the addition of images.\"</em>\r\n\r\nWhich then, I'd assume, has a lot more to
    do with the people involved than with the mere posting of illustrations.\r\n\r\nThis
    doesn't do anything for this thread, but let me just say that if I should ever
    post a logo on this board, I'd be more than glad if people would take the time
    to edit the hell out of it should they think that my design needs it."
  created: '2007-12-23 19:39:33'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Unless the person who creates the thread explicitly notes that they would
    like to <em>see</em> other's ideas you shouldn't be posted your ideas.
  created: '2007-12-23 23:52:02'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "It's hard to see the point of a critique session---in <em>any</em> context,
    but especially on the internet---where suggestions cannot be made visually in
    order to demonstrate <em>what's the deal</em>. \r\n\r\nComps I post are for the
    sole purpose of instruction---this is what I mean dude, something like this, <em>but
    that's not to say I think your attempt is horrible or hopelessly flawed.</em>\r\n\r\nWhere
    did he get t h a t from?\r\n\r\nDrawings are candid ideas, nothing more.\r\n\r\nStatements
    like this one are candid too, and very much on the ball, but first-timers and
    the insecure might find the opening sentence insulting:\r\n\r\n<em>The logo looks
    amateurish. The paint swoosh has been done over and over and over again. Is there
    a reason for the letters to be cut off?</em>\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-24 01:29:47'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Generally I aim to be constructive.\r\n\r\n<em>Posting your own versions
    of a logo used to be taboo in the critique sections...</em>\r\n\r\nWhen was t
    h a t ?\r\n\r\n@j_p_giese: <em>Which then, I\u2019d assume, has a lot more to
    do with the people involved than with the mere posting of illustrations.</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    thread demonstrates that most lucidly.\r\n\r\nTim---tust everyone, but cut the
    cards.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-24 02:53:51'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@Tiffany: <em>Unless the person who creates the thread explicitly notes that
    they would like to </em>see<em> other\u2019s ideas you shouldn\u2019t be posted
    your ideas.</em>\r\n\r\nTrust everyone. I trust you a lot as a moderator, but
    there is a degree of post-modern cynicism going on in this thread holding back
    an effective solution. What happened to \"typographic collaboration\"?\r\n\r\n@timd:
    <em>...if you tried a more \u201Cclassic\u201D letterform (sans or serif) and
    experimented you could mask quite a large amount from bootom and/or top, you wouldn\u2019t
    have to make allowances for the o and the m_r_i needn\u2019t appear unmasked.</em>
    \r\n\r\nThat's the kind of descriptive remedy I think is better expressed in a
    drawing.\r\n\r\n@marosi_lorant: <em>...the suggestions are great and thanks for
    them but don\u2018t make something that has nothing to do with your theories.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    nonsense. Your view is cynical and out of touch.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-24 03:42:30'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "<em>It\u2019s hard to see the point of a critique session\u2014-in any context,
    but especially on the internet\u2014-where suggestions cannot be made visually
    in order to demonstrate what\u2019s the deal.</em>\r\ni agree completely with
    james here. although i've been a typophile member for a while, i admit to an ignorance
    of the policy of not showing visually representational examples of concepts (has
    this really been the case?). images are effective because  they ARE concepts,
    but not directives (we are peers instead of clients). in fact, i have often posted
    (and have seen posted) visual examples of concepts.\r\n<em>My</em> feeling is,
    unless a person is willing to receive written and visual feedback, there's little
    point to offering it up to a public forum such as this."
  created: '2007-12-24 06:44:36'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://typophile.com/node/14424\r\n\r\nAn earlier thread which makes my point(and
    conflicting ones).\r\n\r\n>That\u2019s the kind of descriptive remedy I think
    is better expressed in a drawing.\r\n\r\nPossibly, but I choose not to unless
    asked, as I believe that it does a disservice to the poster.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-12-24 08:55:33'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: "Hey Tim ... one of the links in your node is broken, but here's the <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/3051\">link</a>\r\n\r\nthis
    gives a little more background.\r\n\r\nthere was a time when it was not taboo
    to post graphic-based logo suggestions. And lots of people did it. I was guilty.\r\n\r\nJoe
    Pemberton said something. And Stephen called the practice selfish. So from that
    point on, it seemed like it'd be a good idea to speak up and let others know,
    too. But that caused problems \u2014 one crit recipient got mad when I said something,
    and basically said, Dude, don't fight my battles. \r\n\r\nAs the site grew, the
    new people had no idea.\r\n\r\nI think quick sketches are fine, but creating an
    entire new logo is very close to saying, 'Your logo isn't working, let's scrap
    it, and take a look at what I'm capable of!' \r\n\r\nI don't mean this in a bad
    way, James, or anyone else in this thread. (James, I know about your diligence
    on the Larabie forum, your type design skills, and of course I've seen the helpful
    advice you impart here.) You certainly are just trying to help. \r\n\r\nOne solution
    is for Joe or Jared or someone behind the curtain to take the input from these
    threads, and make an official decision on how to handle this.\r\n\r\nAs seen in
    the past discussions, there's a difference of opinion on this subject, so clearly
    it's not something that is going to fix itself. :)\r\n\r\nsorry to continue the
    thread derail."
  created: '2007-12-24 10:43:50'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Thanks Tim and Brian for pointing us to that 2004 thread. There will always
    be new typophilers who are unaware of it.\r\n\r\n@timd: <em>Possibly, but I choose
    not to unless asked, as I believe that it does a disservice to the poster.</em>\r\n\r\nHow
    does my posting a drawing do a disservice to the poster (of original)?\r\n\r\n@bjharvy:
    <em>...creating an entire new logo is very close to saying, \u2019Your logo isn\u2019t
    working, let\u2019s scrap it, and take a look at what I\u2019m capable of!\u2019</em>\r\n\r\nNothing
    like that was intended. That thinking is on the same wavelength as Stephen saying
    it's selfish. I think m. is being a somewhat selfish or insecure with respect
    to his own design skills.\r\n\r\nFor me the quickest way to contribute is often
    to do a \"quick drawing\", and lately I have posted disclaimers \"that's all I
    could come up with in 2 minutes\". It's easy to see how a statement like that
    could be interpreted as \"look what I can do in two minutes!\"\r\n\r\nSorry if
    my lingua franca is oblique and too satirical for some tastes.\r\n\r\n<em>...I
    think quick sketches are fine, but creating an entire new logo...</em>\r\n\r\nFor
    me that &nbsp; w a s &nbsp; a \"quick sketch\". So where do we draw the line betwwen
    a sketch and an entire new logo? \r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-24 11:42:19'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>...Your logo isn\u2019t working, let\u2019s scrap it and...</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    par for the course with any kind of critique, whether it happens verbally or visually.
    Some people can't handle it.\r\n\r\nAlso try: \"The logo looks amateurish. The
    paint swoosh has been done over and over and over again. Is there a reason for
    the letters to be cut off?\"\r\n\r\nAlso try: growing some skin, and having a
    sense of humour. It says that in the general posting guidelines, so do we need
    a different sticky guidelines for the critique forums root? \r\n\r\nTrust everyone,
    but cut the cards. Draw a line, guys, between \"quick sketch\" and \"whole new
    logo\".\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-24 11:59:12'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I would encourage quick sketches from anyone who cared to offer me ideas.
    \r\nI think both logos here remind me of kitchen appliances, but if i had a better
    idea, i would like to be able to illustrate it with a quick graphic. I wouldn't
    presume to say it was better than somebody else's. \r\nPeople are trying only
    to give useful feedback, at least I hope so! :) "
  created: '2007-12-24 20:58:10'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Joe Pemberton, Tiffany, Stephen, Eben, Paul Hunt, Dan Reynolds, Yves---some
    questions I would appreciate some answers to:\r\n\r\n* If seasoned designers or
    type designers posting their own version of a logo on a critique thread is taboo,
    <em>why are we hearing about it for the first time now?</em> I'm a regular contributor,
    you know my posting habits, and presumably you trust me. Yet I and other members
    have been allowed to post problematic material will-nilly---and nobody said anything
    until now. How did it come to that?\r\n\r\n* T h a t &nbsp;is doing a disservice
    to designers and others who are genuinely trying to help out. Trust everyone.\r\n\r\n*
    Why&nbsp; i s n ' t&nbsp; there a guidelines sticky for the Critique area? Evidently
    we need one. There will always be new contributors.\r\n\r\nHere's a draft text
    to get the meatball rolling. Please amend as you guys see fit:\r\n\r\n=============start====================\r\nCritique
    Forum Guidelines\r\n\r\nFor logos:\r\n* Seasoned and professional designers contributing
    to logo critiques are asked to look at the logo design and the forum-based critique
    process from the Client User's point of view and avoid posting their own version
    of the logo (for example, using a different font), as it may appear self-indulgent.
    Unless the client user specifically asks for raw input, check that it's okay first
    before posting your own comps and drawings.\r\n\r\n* Students, first-timers and
    non-professional designers (client users) asking for critiques are asked to look
    at the forum-based critique process from the perspective of seasoned designers
    who may contribute, bringing in new ideas or challenging your perspective.\r\n\r\n*
    Look at it from each other's point of view, trust everyone, have a sense of humour
    etc. Also try: A nice sit down and a cup of tea.\r\n=============end====================\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-25 07:19:11'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: Could you please take this derailed train somewhere more appropriate?
  created: '2007-12-25 15:50:06'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "We all have to use judgment in these areas. I like to hint at a solution
    rather than solving or offering a finished idea. For example, if someone needs
    a font I often suggest a classic and leave the refinement and search up to the
    person asking.\r\n\r\nThis particular thread is a little different, in my opinion,
    because the designer needs to push their own ideas and discover the development
    process. A good way to show this is with examples of directions they have not
    attempted.\r\n\r\nI'm in the less is more camp when it comes to critique\u2014maybe
    that's what I'm trying to say."
  created: '2007-12-26 18:33:37'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: James, is that your picture in your avatar?
  created: '2007-12-26 19:57:04'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Yep. When I was really quite a young man struggling to make movies. Ha! Those
    were the days.\r\n\r\nI see you are now a \"Typophile phile\". Does that mean
    you're a lover of Typophilers?\r\n\r\nMy cat Zoot says to say howdy to you :^)\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-26 20:41:17'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: :-)
  created: '2007-12-26 23:00:26'
- author:
    name: emerjean
    picture: 112136
  body: "So... Marosi Brothers...\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-----------------:\r\nJean
    Chouinard"
  created: '2007-12-31 02:06:43'
- author:
    name: deuxpoint
    picture: 113888
  body: "This post is kinda split in three parts... :S\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/40033\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/40246\r\n\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------:\r\nJean
    Chouinard (formerly emerjean on Typophile)"
  created: '2007-12-31 09:55:26'
date: '2007-12-20 18:45:03'
node_type: forum
title: fresh logo uploaded :)

---
