---
author:
  name: Diner
  picture: 110407
body: "Being that it's the holidays and there may be more than a few of us trolling
  around looking for topics to dig into, I thought up a juicy topic that may or may
  not have already been covered but I think it's worth further discussion regardless
  . . .\r\n\r\nAs OpenType gives us the auto ligature feature, it occurred to me,
  what are the MOST useful ligatures that I could add to my fonts . . .\r\n\r\nNow,
  before I throw this out there, I'm already throwing out the common ffl ffi ae oe
  deal because how often can one eat a waffle while reading an encyclopaedia?\r\n\r\nAnd
  to further up the ante, I'm thinking this in reference to more display oriented
  designs rather than text faces . . .\r\n\r\nI'm looking for good common substitutive
  ligatures that can give the effect of non-repeating forms such as oo, ll, ee, and
  ss, etc . . .\r\n\r\nIdeally, I'd like to come up with a top 10-20 that would be
  a standard for most fonts . . .\r\n\r\nAt worst, any fonts you can point to that
  may feature a thoughtful approach would also make for good fodder . . .\r\n\r\nCast
  away . . .\r\n\r\nStuart :D"
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Rapp
    picture: 111901
  body: "Hi Stuart,\r\nI think ligature use is determined more by the type of font
    in question. I've been working on an antique style handwriting font lately. In
    handwriting, forms are predominantly connected. Most connections can occur smoothly
    in the same place. I find that letters whose stroke end at the top such as o v
    w and sometimes b often work best with ligatures. w_h is one that seems to flow
    better that way. I don't always make ligatures for double letters as contextual
    substitution seems to cover that well enough. Exceptions to that are usually combos
    with crossbars like f_t t_t or things like oo. Sometimes I get tempted into spicing
    things up a bit and include ligatures that are for beginnings only. \r\n\r\nAll
    this is assuming we're talking about Open Type ligatures as opposed to creating
    a 2nd PS version with extras. If you go too wild with ligatures you have to watch
    out for conflicts. For instance, if you have both o_o and o_n you might consider
    an o_o_n ligature to be first in line.\r\nHope that helps ...not exactly a list.\r\nStephen "
  created: '2007-12-27 00:00:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hi Stuart,\r\nI always think of common pairings like Th, th, tt, and certainly
    ff. The extended f ligs used mostly in other languages fj ffj fh ffh fk ffk and
    fb ffb are more often seen now with opentype. I have done some goofy ones in my
    Froggy typeface including gg, ggy, gy, and gh but they are discretionary to say
    the least :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-27 00:16:05'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: The most useful OpenType ligature or alternate pair is the one that's not
    included in the typeface :)
  created: '2007-12-27 00:57:53'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Don't forget, \xE6 and \u0153 are counted as distinct letters in certain
    languages' orthographies rather than simple ligatures. They're hardly ever used
    in modern English, true, but are a requirement in others, like French or Icelandic
    (which has a few other noteworthy extensions too).\r\n\r\nAs for suggestions on
    novel ligatures, look for combinations where ordinary letters would collide, particularly
    in the descenders, g_j, g_y, g_g, j_j, and almost anything preceding j."
  created: '2007-12-27 01:15:49'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>The most useful OpenType ligature or alternate pair is the one that\u2019s
    not included in the typeface</citr>\r\n\r\nLike f + igrave (or a lot of vowels
    with a grave, dieresis, breve, caron, etc.)."
  created: '2007-12-27 01:16:16'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "Most <cite>useful</cite> ligatures would indeed be solutions preventing collitions,
    greatly depending on what font you're making. You could also consider contextual
    alternates (for example a 'shorter' f in a f\xEC (yes that an \xEC) combination)."
  created: '2007-12-27 02:00:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Quite a wordy post there, Dan? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-27 02:58:39'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I was speechless.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-27 03:09:58'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I myself love the old Roman/Renaissance monument style ligatures. Mmm. Ligatures.\r\n\r\nAnd
    the new ones that people have been creating for things like smileys. :) :( :P
    :O"
  created: '2007-12-27 03:11:59'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Speak, Dan---speak. I'm listening. I hear your champagne laff, I live in
    the curtain, I sleep in your hat ;^)\r\n\r\nHi Stuart---Ray Larabie has made a
    quite a few OT fonts loaded with discretionary ligatures that may be worth your
    while checking out:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/typodermic/mecheria/\"
    target=\"_new\">Mecheria</a> \r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/typodermic/sinzano/\"
    target=\"_new\">Sinzano</a> \r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/typodermic/zamora/\"
    target=\"_new\">Zamora</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/typodermic/rinse/\"
    target=\"_new\">Rinse</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/typodermic/neuzon/\"
    target=\"_new\">Neuzon</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/typodermic/oxeran/\"
    target=\"_new\">Oxeran</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/typodermic/croteau/\"
    target=\"_new\">Croteau</a>\r\n\r\nNeuropol ligatures is one giant ligatures font
    from the pre-OT era, but the pairings are closely related to the Neuropol structure.\r\n\r\n>As
    for suggestions on novel ligatures, look for combinations where ordinary letters
    would collide, particularly in the descenders, g_j, g_y, g_g, j_j, and almost
    anything preceding j.\r\n\r\nThat's been one of my main uses of ligatures, for
    collision avoidance, and pairs that normally have poor fit like r_a.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-27 03:37:19'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "</cite></em><---(Formerly blank comment)\r\n(Man, the re-ordering of edits
    is a pain in the a**)\r\n\r\nTHAT's your ligatures to build, right there. Replacing
    swear words with family-friendly alternatives.)"
  created: '2007-12-27 04:38:30'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I would echo what was said about intent being key. If you want to make a
    silly/fun/expressive/threatening/(insert your display description here) font more
    so then what you choose to ligate & why is completely different than if you are
    making a text face. \r\n\r\nSo I guess I am saying that building a laundry list
    isn't what I would suggest. \r\n\r\nAlso contextual substitution might be a better
    route in some cases because it leaves the fonts free to be rough ridden more evenly
    by designers ( take that! ya!).  Whereas a ligature will just break the word when
    they track it out at 200 or whatever they decide is needed. And a contextual sub
    can be made to build a ligature if it's really needed. "
  created: '2007-12-27 05:21:50'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Being that I deal with the ff ligature on a daily basis I have to say it
    is important. Yeah, I'm vain. If a typeface doesn't have a nice ff lig when it
    *should* have one I turn the page quickly.\r\n\r\nTIC"
  created: '2007-12-27 18:26:26'
- author:
    name: JCSalomon
    picture: 128147
  body: "\u2003Chris, \u2018saying least\u2019 is indeed a habit indicating great
    discretion, but what\u2019s that got to do with\u2026.\u2002Oh.\u2002Never mind.\u2002\u263A\r\n\u2014Joel"
  created: '2007-12-27 19:51:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I see you just considered the source, eh Joel? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-27 20:25:54'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Tiff, how happy would you be ( or not happy ) with a font that built it's
    ff "lig" from two glyphs and let you track them slightly for justification etc.
    if you needed to? Would you see that as a step back?
  created: '2007-12-27 21:07:13'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Eben, at face value I''d rather trust the designer to give me ligatures that
    work with the design. However, some fonts have ligatures that are spaced (or drawn
    however you see it) that are too tight and force the user to either not have control
    over letter-spacing or turn off ligature usage. But in this instance, I''m thinking
    of designs that beg for the first letter in the double-f lig (or any double letter
    lig) to be slightly different than the second. '
  created: '2007-12-28 03:37:48'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Doesn't Spiekermann go off on this subject in his Stealing Sheep book? Something
    about the "th" ligature being too tight or something? I've always wondered about
    that.
  created: '2007-12-28 06:35:21'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "I really wish to see a text face with a solution for f+umlauts.\r\nIn German
    language, \u2018f\xE4\u2019, \u2018f\xF6\u2019 and \u2018f\xFC\u2019 are anything
    but rare, just think of \u2018f\xFCr\u2019 [\u2018for\u2019].\r\nIn a lot of classic
    serif faces the drop of the \u2018f\u2019 reaches out quite far to the right.
    That\u2019s why there are ligatures like fl, ff, fi \u2013 to avoid collision,
    right?\r\n\r\nSo, dear type designers: before doing fancy things like including
    \u2018ffj\u2019 and \u2018\u017F\u017Fl\u2019 ligatures, 5 different ampersands
    and a truckload of ivies, please consider addressing this umlaut issue!*\r\n\r\nSee
    this illustration:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f-umlaut_4616.gif]\r\nYellow
    is (to me) only just acceptable, red isn\u2019t anymore.\r\nAnd, of course: the
    bolder, the more clotted it gets.\r\n\r\nBy the way, I didn\u2019t pick 4 fonts
    by Adobe because they were especially \u2018bad\u2019 \u2013 no, this problem
    is inherent to all faces that have an extensive \u2018f\u2019. I used these fonts
    as they are commonly regarded as being \u2013 in all aspects \u2013 very well
    equipped OpenType text fonts \u2013 and <em>still</em> suffer from this particular
    issue.\r\n\r\nIn my humble opinion, merging the \u2018f\u2019 drop with the left
    dot of the umlaut (as in \u2018fi\u2019) can\u2019t be the way to go \u2013 that
    would look really awkward. I\u2019d love to have an alternative \u2018f\u2019
    with a narrower top for those cases, preferably with automatic substitution, via
    the lig feature.\r\n\r\nAnd while doing so, don\u2019t forget the triple combinations
    :\xB0)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/affaere_6019.png]\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t
    think this problem is limited to German language; the Swedish among others will
    benefit aswell.\r\n\r\nF\r\n\r\n*) Don\u2019t get me wrong; I very much appreciate
    all those special equipment. All I want to say is: first things first."
  created: '2007-12-28 13:17:31'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "P.S.: I see this came up before <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/33330\">in
    this thread</a>, though not especially focussed on umlauts. There, Thomas Phinney
    called that less sweeping \u2018f\u2019 a \u201CLinotype f\u201D \u2013 it all
    has been there before \u2026 :\xB0)"
  created: '2007-12-28 13:40:16'
- author:
    name: Stephen Rapp
    picture: 111901
  body: "Not as sophisticated as Adobe, but here is one of the Central European ligs
    from Chai Tea Pro.\r\nStephen Rapp[img:sites/default/files/old-images/oft_4290.jpg]"
  created: '2007-12-28 15:20:25'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Tiff, I think you are answering a different question. I am wondering if a
    type designer made a visual lig using two glyphs ( as opposed to the traditional
    one glyph lig) that moved with tracking would that be better or worse in your
    opinion? The assumption being that they look look identical if there is no tracking.
  created: '2007-12-28 16:13:06'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I thought I had with the first sentence. :^) If the type designer thinks that
    is the best solution then why not. Of course, I'd want to see an example and test
    it for myself. ;^)
  created: '2007-12-28 16:46:08'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Makes sense. \r\n\r\nIt is also true that the solution I am advocating (
    two glyphs ) no matter how skillfully made can be made visually broken by too
    much tracking as well. I guess I just think it's a better model because it has
    a chance at least to be more resilient. But your point about actual implementation
    being 'all' is bang on.\r\n\r\nI suppose what I really wanted to know was if you
    thought there was any inherent superiority to the one glyph model & if so why.
    But it sounds now like you wouldn't take that position. Is that right?"
  created: '2007-12-28 17:38:58'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "No. I don't see any superiority. As far as I am concerned I want the ligatures
    to belong to the design. I suppose the only reason I might think the one glyph
    model would be superior is because the design calls for true integration of the
    shapes.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-28 21:12:47'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>design calls for true integration of the shapes</em>\r\n\r\nWrite that
    down. Good shot Red Two!\r\n\r\n\"mew\"\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-28 21:21:56'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Aha! I thought I heard something rattling around. ;-)\r\n\r\nBut what if
    prior to any tracking going on you could have uterly identical shapes? Admittedly
    it might be that some kinds of designs wouldn't be amenable to this - but just
    for the sake of argument - if you could get a lig that was visually identical
    - then I think the reason for 1 glyph ligs evaporates.* Do you agree? Feel free
    not to! \r\n\r\nWith one important exception: Backwards Unicode compatibility.
    But you could include a glyph with out using it in your replace functions!"
  created: '2007-12-29 02:01:21'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "See, when you start talking about the coding I get left behind. You guys
    are way beyond my under the hood knowledge of fonts. \r\n\r\nBut, if I follow
    . . . Why would I want that?"
  created: '2007-12-29 03:11:42'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Sorry. I didn't realize how opaque some of this was. I will do my best. \r\n\r\nIn
    the case of backwards compatibility I am saying that a text can be hard-encoded
    to include the glyph for ff or fi for instance. And if you had a text like that
    you could loose the meaning of the text if you didn't include the single unicode
    glyphs 'ff' or 'fi' in your font. \r\n\r\nOn the other hand, if you had a common
    sort of text - the sort we set 99.9 % of the time - with fand i or fandf indicated
    as separate glyphs you could allow the ff & fi to interpreted into the visual
    appearance/shape of a classic ff or fi ligature but using coding to make two glyphs
    overlap. \r\n\r\nAnd as far as why you would want to - a regular one glyph ligature
    often looks quite wrong with only fairly minor tracking. \r\n\r\nSo.. one solution
    to that ( apart from not tracking a font )  is that as a font designer you could
    contrive a design that let the shapes ( within a tight range probably ) to flex
    in tracking right along with the other letters. Then inter letter spacing wold
    be consistent. \r\n\r\nProbably the best thing to do is to make a visual reference!
    I have been meaning to make a stab at one for some time in order to see what results
    were possible. And to see what the practical limitations might be."
  created: '2007-12-29 07:42:20'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Optical auto-kerning in InD positions single glyph ligatures in a tracked-out
    line of text made up of mostly normal a -- z letterforms so that the weight distribution
    and color is even. Even tho the single glyph ligature structure presents a bigger
    lump of type. It somehow takes that into account. I think that thing works on
    equal division of the white space.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-29 09:41:49'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Of course not everybody uses InD... ;-) \r\n\r\nBut still that's a good point.
    On the other hand if the font is well made it might be better left with it's own
    kerning table. \r\n\r\nJames; what's your take on this? Does what I am talking
    about make sense to you?\r\n\r\nA minor point - those ct & st ligs might not survive
    my plan, depending on how they were made."
  created: '2007-12-29 17:06:46'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>James; what\u2019s your take on this? Does what I am talking about make
    sense to you?</em>\r\n\r\nYes. Everything you talk about makes sense to me. \r\n\r\nIn
    25 words or less: OT positioning commands can make up ligatures \"on-demand\"
    from a library stocked with a range of glyphs to suit different tracking conditions.
    \r\n\r\nThat's 23 words. \r\n\r\nTiffany---<em>I want the ligatures to belong
    to the design...because the design calls for true integration of the shapes.</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    can be done with Eben's scheme. Custom parts that integrate on an intuitive aesthetic
    basis. It would take some planning tho. It's only a matter of egineering it into
    existence. \r\n\r\nI put caps spacing programs into my OT fonts, a kind of in-built
    tracking feature using simple positioning commands. The one piece capital ligatures
    are designed to work with what I determine are the best or most useful tracking
    settings. \r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-30 02:01:52'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I think the idea of coding to overlap the letters accordingly sounds dangerous.
    Interesting, but dangerous. I can imagine what you're talking about, but the proof
    would be in the pudding, so to speak. Show me what you're thinking, let's see
    if it is possible.
  created: '2007-12-30 05:51:01'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite>sounds dangerous. </cite>\r\n\r\nOddly enough so do i in a way. And
    it's true that some kinds of designs could not be made any less brittle with a
    two glyph model than they are with a one glyph model. But I am betting that many
    could be made better. Still, as you say it's \"in the pudding\". \r\n\r\nThanks
    for your comments James!\r\n\r\nI will try to get a visual example to post sometime
    this week. What examples would be the most convincing for you Tiff? What about
    you James? And by this I mean what ligatures and what source fonts?  \r\n\r\nBTW
    if you mean technically \"dangerous\" then no worries. There are perils but technical
    perils are the very very least of them."
  created: '2007-12-30 07:15:56'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "Florian, <A HREF=\"http://www.mufi.info/fonts/\">MUFI fonts</A> have f\xE4,
    f\xF6 and f\xFC ligatures. They use the solution you reject as awkward, but considering
    the nature of the project I must assume there is historical precedent for the
    form."
  created: '2007-12-30 16:30:15'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I think the idea of coding to overlap the letters accordingly sounds
    dangerous.</em>\r\n\r\ni don't think it'd be that dangerous (if i'm following
    correctly). of course it could be problematic if a user tries to increase letterspacing
    too much. i'll hafta run some tests..."
  created: '2007-12-30 18:54:18'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Kevin, thanks for the link!\r\nI decided to start a <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/40439\">new
    thread on the \u2018f\u2019+umlaut thing</a>, as this is quite special, and I
    don\u2019t want the question get buried by other aspects.\r\nF"
  created: '2007-12-30 19:41:52'
- author:
    name: juandelperal
    picture: 111849
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f_6060.png]'
  created: '2007-12-30 20:55:11'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Good idea Florian!\r\n\r\nPaul, I have been looking at some examples that
    would probably not work as given. They would have to be re-invented to a certain
    extent. I am looking forward to comparing solutions.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-31 00:16:33'
- author:
    name: carlosdiego
    picture: 120280
  body: "As I learn German since 2006, I've encountered some things that disturbed
    my eyes in German texts : the lack of NECESSARY ligatures that makes the text
    pleasant to read. Just like Florian Hardwig explained it very well above in the
    thread : the glyphs (f+umlaut) are often in collision. Since the beginning of
    the metal type, the type designers have created special ligatures in order to
    avoid these problems. Unfortunately this scheme applies only for a few languages
    today. Since a long time, I was asking to myself : Has a designer created a typeface
    with such ligatures already ?\r\n\r\nToday I discovered Ingeborg, by Typejockeys.
    It has won the TDC awards in 2010. And it has those special ligatures.\r\nI was
    amazed !\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DA-Fas1_4474.gif]\r\n\r\nbetter
    image [[http://img851.imageshack.us/img851/6230/ingeborgfligs.jpg]]\r\n\r\nAnyone
    knows other typefaces with those specifications ?\r\n\r\n\r\ncarlos"
  created: '2011-04-10 23:52:59'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Carlos,\r\nyes, see the spin-off thread: <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/40439\">f
    + umlauts</a>.\r\nNote however that most commentators (including myself) feel
    it is better to have a contextual alternate (a short f), than to introduce uncommon
    and potentially annoying ligatures."
  created: '2011-04-11 08:03:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Right. The f-\xEF ligatures in Ingeborg are enough like f followed by an
    i with a displaced tittle to cause confusion."
  created: '2011-04-11 18:23:35'
- author:
    name: carlosdiego
    picture: 120280
  body: "of course totally agree with your remark. f\xEF ligs are weird in Ingeborg.\r\nAfter
    reading the thread you created Florian, I conclude that merging the f's drops
    with the first umlaut's drops gives the f too height in comparison of the 'standard'
    f. It's like an arm that tries to catch an object (ball) out of reach !\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-11 20:24:23'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mondA_4569.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mondAkurs_6514.png]\r\n\r\nLigatures
    from [[http://www.typophile.com/node/61066|this unreleased typeface]] of mine.
    I'm wondering for which words in which language an f\xEF ligature is needed, by
    the way."
  created: '2011-04-11 20:59:43'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: ".\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lig_4859.jpg]\r\n.\r\nYou never
    come at an end \u2026\r\n(Is there really a use for f_f_f??)"
  created: '2011-04-11 21:31:47'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: schifffahrt
  created: '2011-04-11 23:36:30'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>schifffahrt</cite>\r\n\r\nNo!! This is a compound word: Schiff-fahrt.
    An established rule says that you must not use any ligature across word boundaries.\r\nApart
    from that, Schiffahrt with 3 f\u2019s is dull new age spelling, no decent German.\r\nBut
    that\u2019s another thread ;-)"
  created: '2011-04-12 07:51:10'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "Hi Stuart,\r\nOn the Lobster, I have put the 'fina' into the 'liga', so the
    'fina' is turned on by default. Also included in the 'liga' all the ligatures
    that you will normally put in 'calt', since I believe that they need to be turned
    on by default too."
  created: '2011-04-12 11:10:24'
date: '2007-12-26 23:14:16'
title: The Most Useful OpenType Ligatures

---
