---
author:
  name: Ehague
  picture: 112252
body: '"Twip" and "tittle" both strike me as particularly obscure. Got any others?'
comments:
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Please be sharing the definition of twip and tittle!
  created: '2007-12-27 20:26:16'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: A tittle is the dot over an i or j... not sure what a twip is.
  created: '2007-12-27 21:05:30'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: '[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twip|Twip]] and [[http://typophile.com/node/28791?|tittle]].'
  created: '2007-12-27 21:06:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Nut (en space) and mutton (em space).
  created: '2007-12-27 21:21:06'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: I love to use [[octothorp]] when others might say "pound" or "hash".
  created: '2007-12-27 21:46:01'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/piedtype_5011.jpg]\r\n[[http://wordsmith.org/board/ubbthreads.php/ubb/showflat/Number/99697/page/79|pi]]"
  created: '2007-12-27 22:04:24'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'Some of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slash_(punctuation)|Wikipedia''s]]
    listed synonyms for the slash are new to me: "oblique, diagonal, whack, separatrix,
    virgule, scratch comma, slant, or forward slash." Have any of you called it a
    whack, a separatrix, or a scratch comma before?'
  created: '2007-12-27 22:24:35'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Well, there is \"pig\" and \"monkey\" (printers & typesetters, respectively).\r\n\r\nAll
    sorts of interesting terms in <cite>The Printer's Vocabulary</cite> by Charles
    Thomas Jacobi (London, Chiswick Press, 1881).\r\n\r\nAnd for em-space, along with
    <cite>mutton</cite> are <cite>molly</cite> and <cite>mary</cite> . . .\r\n\r\n<cite>Pilcrow</cite>
    for the paragraph symbol . . .\r\n\r\nDon't get me started on type terms. Been
    there & got the hat."
  created: '2007-12-27 22:27:04'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: '"Eroteme" is a long-forgotten name for the question mark.'
  created: '2007-12-27 23:07:46'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>Have any of you called it a whack, a separatrix, or a scratch comma
    before?</cite>\r\n\r\n\"Whack\" is used in computer jargon. One might say \"h
    t t p, colon, whack whack\" to describe \"http://\". Since the different directions
    are interchangeable in certain computer networking applications, a whack could
    also go the other way. \"whack whack servername\" is \"\\\\\\SERVERNAME\\\". "
  created: '2007-12-28 00:05:32'
- author:
    name: Scott Leyes
    picture: 112337
  body: "...but is \"\\\\SERVERNAME\" actually \"back-whack back-whack servername\"?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-28 00:29:06'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Some of Wikipedia\u2019s listed synonyms for the slash are new to me:
    \u201Coblique, diagonal, whack, separatrix, virgule, scratch comma, slant, or
    forward slash.\u201D Have any of you called it a whack, a separatrix, or a scratch
    comma before?</em>\r\n\r\nSome of them may be made up. Do any of the terms you
    list have citations with verifiable references? If not, you can't trust them.
    As a Wikipedian myself I know Wikipedia to be a crank magnet---the most powerful
    crank magnet in the universe. While working on type-related articles there I discovered
    a lot of programmer-like geeks working on them as well. They consider themselves
    qualified to write on typography matters, which is absurd really, all things considered,
    and they have an annoying habit of introducing terms and jargon from the programming
    world. They justify it by saying that programmers use these terms for writing
    code.\r\n\r\nIf you guys see anything questionable or dubious in Wikipedia's typography
    articles and it has no citation or reference, jump right in there and put this
    tag next to the suspect text:\r\n\r\n{fact}\r\n\r\nThat generates a [citation
    needed] tag in the rendered article. You don't need to be a registered Wikipedian
    to do it. Anyone can challenge what's there. If the author(s) who put the unreferenced
    material in fail to come up with a valid reference within two months it is considered
    acceptable to remove the unsourced material.\r\n\r\nSome people I work with call
    a slash a \"forward slash\", but it's hard to see the point when \"slash\" makes
    perfect sense contrasted with \"backslash\".\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-28 02:15:37'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>Some people I work with call a slash a \u201Cforward slash\u201D, but
    it\u2019s hard to see the point when \u201Cslash\u201D makes perfect sense contrasted
    with \u201Cbackslash\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nI suspect these are mostly Windows users
    who are used to using the backslash for path names and therefore are prone to
    use it instead of a slash in URLs out of habit. Calling it a forward slash helps
    to make it clearer for them (although I sometimes hear people on the radio mistakenly
    saying \"backslash\" when reciting a URL). \"Forward slash\" sounds odd mainly
    to non-Windows users who don't use the backslash so much."
  created: '2007-12-28 03:20:02'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: What about using the term "cut"? I think that is right in there with "leading".
  created: '2007-12-28 03:48:54'
- author:
    name: John vanDemer
  body: upper & lower case - the origins of the "case" are lost on pretty much everyone.
  created: '2007-12-28 03:53:37'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "One time on the talk page for Wikipedia:font (typeface), a user asked if
    the origin story for \"upper case\" and \"lower case\" was a lot of hokum somebody
    made up. This guy said something like, \"That sounds like an urban myth, as if
    typesetters in metal days actually had an upper case and a lower case. Glad to
    meet you, I'm Lincoln's grandfather.\"\r\n\r\nI assured the person the origin
    story is true---to the best of our knowledge.\r\n\r\nMark---yes, in all likelihood
    you are right about \"backslash\".\r\n\r\n<em>What about using the term \u201Ccut\u201D?
    I think that is right in there with \u201Cleading\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nInteresting
    you should bring that up: I reject terms like \"foundry\" and make a point of
    not using that word, saying \"font maker\" or \"type designer\" instead. Yet I
    don't think twice about calling line height \"leading\". \"Cut\" will probably
    be around forever, no matter what medium font makers use to draw type outlines
    with. Cut is almost synonymous with line and outline.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-28 04:13:11'
- author:
    name: John vanDemer
  body: Im all out of sorts
  created: '2007-12-28 04:26:16'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "They (printers) actually did have separate upper (for the majuscule) and
    lower cases (for the minuscule). They still physically exist. I have a couple
    of them. The terms are post the development of printing and did not exist prior.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2007-12-28 04:42:35'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>They (printers) actually did have separate upper (for the majuscule)
    and lower cases (for the minuscule).</cite>\r\n\r\nAs they say on the Internet,
    \"Pics! or it didn't happen.\"\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/case_5420.gif]"
  created: '2007-12-28 05:41:24'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "hickey\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2007-12-28 05:43:03'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "As they say on the Internet, \u201CPics! or it didn\u2019t happen.\u201D\r\n\r\nWell,
    then, \"they\" lose.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2007-12-28 05:49:39'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>...but is \u201C\\SERVERNAME\u201D actually \u201Cback-whack back-whack
    servername\u201D?</cite>\r\n\r\nYeah, I think I initially forgot to \"whack\"
    (escape) one of my whacks. I fixed (whacked?) it pretty quickly, which I probably
    shouldn't have done, because you immediately quoted it. "
  created: '2007-12-28 05:50:31'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Furniture\r\n\r\nCopy-fitting\r\n\r\nFist\r\n\r\nSlug\r\n\r\nLogotype\r\n\r\nCalendar
    figures\r\n\r\nQuad\r\n\r\nMortise\r\n\r\nQuoin & quoin key\r\n\r\nElectrotype\r\n\r\nStereotype\r\n\r\n(Actually,
    modern letterpress printers will know a lot of these.)\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-28 15:18:16'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"obscure. Got any others?\"\r\nArkle, Bolleri, Cantra, Dezk, Entony, Frencker,
    Grapper, Honley, Instop, Juster, Kromni, Lestic, Marcorhym, Nester, Omnifont,
    Panose, Quark, Rult, Serien, Tanstraam, Unitype, Vall\xE9tione, Waskgrap, Xerox,
    Yuristic and Zoop.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-12-28 15:30:24'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"They consider themselves qualified to write on typography matters, which
    is absurd really, all things considered, and they have an annoying habit of introducing
    terms and jargon from the programming world. They justify it by saying that programmers
    use these terms for writing code.\"\r\n\r\nWell, isn't that still typography?
    Granted, anything written in a resource like wikipedia should be verified, but
    it seems that one of the great things about wikipedia is it's contemporary vernacular.
    But I do see your point as well. Perhaps there's a need for articles to have a
    section on 'contemporary variations' or the like.\r\n\r\nFYI, this is a great
    thread!\r\n\r\nMark: I'm ashamed...even having worked at a letterpress shop, I've
    never heard of Electrotype or Stereotype...what are those?\r\n\r\nAlso, I've always
    love the term 'Quoin'."
  created: '2007-12-28 16:09:28'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>Electrotype or Stereotype...what are those?</em>\r\n\r\nThey were methods
    of making single-piece printing plates from locked-up page galleys, mainly for
    the high-speed presses used by newspapers."
  created: '2007-12-28 16:15:40'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'Also: Electrotype was used by pirates to copy fonts.'
  created: '2007-12-28 16:18:49'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Hickey as an archaic example? Hickies still happen on press.
  created: '2007-12-28 16:43:20'
- author:
    name: peterhaas
  body: "Furniture - Usually wood, but could be metal pieces which fill in the chase
    (which see) of a letterpress printer; held tightly in place by quoins (which see).
    This \"word of art\" is found in other industries, where it can mean any wooden
    component part of the whole. For example, a wooden gunstock is the gun's furniture.\r\n\r\nCopy-fitting\r\n\r\nFist
    - Guess: a group of Linotype or Intertype slugs lifted from the machine's output
    tray and taken (in one's fisted hand, from which comes this \"word of art\") to
    a composing station, usually passing a Hammond cutoff saw first to adjust the
    length as required by the job.\r\n\r\nSlug - A cast line of Linotype or Intertype
    type\r\n\r\nLogotype\r\n\r\nCalendar figures\r\n\r\nQuad - Mechanism on a Linotype
    or Intertype which mechanically fills in the line; can be quad left, quad center
    or quad right, as set on the mechanism's control; it is an add-on accessory for
    most older machines, say, a Model 15, and may be standard on later machines; often
    found on machines installed in newspapers.\r\n\r\nMortise - Guess: Related to
    furniture, but I can't remember how.\r\n\r\nQuoin & quoin key - Rectangular (one
    piece) or wedge-shaped (two piece) device which tightens the furniture (which
    see) in the chase; once so tightened, the chase may be safely moved from the composing
    station and installed in the letterpress printer. Quoins are operated by a quoin
    key.\r\n\r\nElectrotype\r\n\r\nStereotype\r\n\r\n(Actually, modern letterpress
    printers will know a lot of these.)\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-28 18:47:50'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Furniture is any spacing material.\r\n\r\nA fist is one of those pointing
    hand dingbats.\r\n\r\nA slug is also just a piece of type.\r\n\r\nA quad is a
    standard space, measured in ems or ens, such as an em quad or en quad. When you
    say \"quad left\" or \"quad right\" it just means \"fill out the line with quads,\"
    pushing the line to the left or right.\r\n\r\nA mortise is a border or illustration
    cut with a hole in it in which to place type.\r\n\r\nA quoin key is the thing
    you use to tighten a quoin."
  created: '2007-12-28 19:12:16'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Well, isn\u2019t that still typography? Granted, anything written in
    a resource like wikipedia should be verified, but it seems that one of the great
    things about wikipedia is it\u2019s contemporary vernacular. But I do see your
    point as well. Perhaps there\u2019s a need for articles to have a section on \u2019contemporary
    variations\u2019 or the like.</em>\r\n\r\nThe accepted solution to most Wikipedia
    content disputes is, or has been, to join the Inclusionist Church of Wikipedia,
    which has the largest number of followers. To achieve a neutral point of view,
    multiple authors working on a single article include all points of view established
    as valid, with criteria for notability and verification. Readers are left to decide
    the relevance of the various points of view for themselves.\r\n\r\nThe NPOV requirement
    is the reason why, for example, Wikipedia's main type history article is titled
    <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_western_typography\" target=\"_new\">History
    of Western Typography</a>: an Asian contributor pointed out my initial breach
    of NPOV, concensus was established at the Village Pump, and the title was changed.\r\n\r\nYou
    are quite right in pointing to the contemporary nature of the newer terms. Wikipedia
    has always been the bleeding edge in Encyclopedestrianization. The reality of
    Encyclopedestrianization has its shock value for everyone.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-28 22:29:02'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Arcane, Miss Tiffany. <em>Arcane. :o)</em>\r\n\r\nAs in, if one steps out
    of the press room and says \"... I left a hickey on this page.\" more people will
    think he is oddly perverse than will think he needs to keep the keep the dust
    down in the press room. [|:\xAC)\r\n\r\n(not strictly a type word admittedly)\r\n\r\n\r\n-
    Out of curiosity... The skills of the first gunsmiths were borrowed from medieval
    locksmiths. Hence the term, lock stock and barrel, which originally referred to
    parts on a lock (and had nothing to do with the wooden parts or the long metal
    tube the bullet comes out of). Are there similar terms transferred from from trades
    the printing industry would have borrowed from? \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2007-12-28 22:50:34'
- author:
    name: peterhaas
  body: "\"A quad is a standard space, measured in ems or ens, such as an em quad
    or en quad. When you say 'quad left' or 'quad right' it just means 'fill out the
    line with quads,' pushing the line to the left or right.\"\r\n\r\nWhen used as
    a noun, yes.\r\n\r\nWhen used as a verb on a linecaster (Linotype and Intertype,
    and possibly also on a Monotype, although I've never operated a Monotype typecaster),
    or with specific reference to a quadder as a noun, it refers to the mechanism
    or the operation thereof, which is attached as an accessory to, or is built into
    the linecaster, and which effects quadding, left, right or center, without the
    use of true quads (em or en, or whatever, as matrices) combined with adjustable
    spacebars."
  created: '2007-12-29 00:31:34'
- author:
    name: peterhaas
  body: "\"They (printers) actually did have separate upper (for the majuscule) and
    lower cases (for the minuscule). They still physically exist. I have a couple
    of them. The terms are post the development of printing and did not exist prior.\"\r\n\r\nHistorically,
    where do minuscule and majuscule fit in, with specific respect to the California
    Job Case?\r\n\r\nI learned to set type by hand, in the 1950s, from a California
    Job Case, and I cannot recall encountering a different case.\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-29 00:36:49'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "Set the body in briever, Century, no rag, with a 2-point lead. Make sure
    to set your gauge pins for a demy, and pack the platen tight with tympan. Stock
    up on quads in case you run out of furniture, and use the newer quoins for lockup!
    :)\r\n\r\n\r\nPersonal Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2007-12-29 01:38:21'
- author:
    name: jcrippen
    picture: 113884
  body: "The term \u201Cvirgule\u201D goes way back before typesetting, back to the
    medi\xE6val era. OED (2nd edn. 1989) says:\r\n\r\n\u201C1. A thin sloping or upright
    line (/, |) occurring in medi\xE6val MSS. as a mark for the c\xE6sura or as a
    punctuation-mark (frequently with the same value as the modern comma). Now also
    in more general use with various functions (see quots.). Cf. SLASH <em>n.</em>\xB9
    5\u201D\r\n\r\n\u201CSolidus\u201D is used by Unicode, and was metaphorically
    transferred from the symbol separating shillings from pence, since \u201Cshilling\u201D
    is an equivalent to \u201Csolidus\u201D which was the Roman gold coin worth about
    25 <em>denarii</em> (which itself is the source of \u201Cd.\u201D for pence).
    OED gives this as sense 2:\r\n\r\n\u201C2. A sloping line used to separate shillings
    from pence, as 12/6, in writing fractions, and for other separations of figures
    and letters; a shilling-mark. Also <em>attrib.</em> Cf. OBLIQUE <em>n.</em> 5.\u201D\r\n\r\n\u201COblique\u201D
    has its first citation in the OED (sense 4) at 1785, although the first citation
    referring specifically to the typographic sense is from 1965: \u201C1965 W. S.
    ALLEN <em>Vox Latina</em> 9 Phonemic symbols..are conventionally set between obliques,
    e.g. /t/.\u201D\r\n\r\n\u201CScratch comma\u201D is attested in the OED under
    sense V.12.b of SCRATCH: \u201Cscratch-comma, a diagonal stroke used by some early
    printers in place of the comma\u201D\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, the OED doesn\u2019t
    have a lemma for \u201Cseperatrix\u201D, which strikes me as suspect anyway.\r\n\r\nFeel
    free to deposit this info in the Wikipedia article. I can\u2019t be bothered at
    the moment.\r\n\r\n(How I wish that either Unicode or HTML supported proper small
    caps.)"
  created: '2007-12-29 01:48:49'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Arcane. Oh dear. Ok well I'll totally agree with hickey then. Sorry for some
    reason I read archaic. Great thread. It all makes sense now. :^D
  created: '2007-12-29 03:02:26'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: I've heard just "bang" used in place of "interrobang," and I've always wanted
    to have "separatrix" revived.  ;-)  It sounds deliciously fun....
  created: '2007-12-29 21:31:21'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>I\u2019ve heard just \u201Cbang\u201D used in place of \u201Cinterrobang,\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nI
    think the \"bang\" is just the exclamation-mark part of an \"interrobang.\" "
  created: '2007-12-29 22:52:18'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Yes, bang = exclamation point (or exclamation mark)
  created: '2007-12-29 23:34:15'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: And, as I recall, used by the late Victor Borge in his amazing performance
    of punctuation....  ;-)
  created: '2007-12-30 03:36:37'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: Borge's bang was more like "ppt-fsssss!"
  created: '2007-12-30 16:02:03'
- author:
    name: JCSalomon
    picture: 128147
  body: "&emsp;James, do you mean s\u1D0D\u1D00\u029F\u029F \u1D04\u1D00\u1D18\u026A\u1D1B\u1D00\u029Fs
    \u029F\u026A\u1D0B\u1D07 \u1D1B\u029C\u1D07s\u1D07?&ensp;Unicode explicitly won't
    make them a proper `case' and only includes those with other linguistic uses.&ensp;When
    I've wanted to fake small-caps with Unicode I used the list below.&ensp;Bracketed
    characters are from other scripts than Latin, and their applicability is font-dependent;
    I don't recall what I intended the other notation to mean:\r\n<code>Aa\u1D00 Bb\u0299[\u0432]
    Cc\u1D04[\u0441](c) Dd\u1D05 Ee\u1D07 Ff* Gg\u0262 Hh\u029C[\u043D] Ii\u026A Jj\u1D0A
    Kk\u1D0B[\u043A][\u0138] Ll\u029F Mm\u1D0D[\u043C] Nn\u0274 Oo\u1D0F[\u043E](o)
    Pp\u1D18 Qq* Rr\u0280 Ss[\u0455](s) Tt\u1D1B[\u0442] Uu\u1D1C Vv\u1D20[\u0475](v*)
    Ww\u1D21[\u0461](w*) Xx[\u0445](x*) Yy\u028F Zz\u1D22(z*) \xD0\xF0\u1D06 \xDE\xFE
    \u0152\u0153\u0276 \u04D4\u04D5\u1D01</code>\r\nThis is, of course quite an unwarranted
    \""
  created: '2007-12-30 20:06:12'
- author:
    name: jcrippen
    picture: 113884
  body: "Ick.\r\n\r\nAs you can see, lacking proper support for small caps you end
    up with typographic disaster."
  created: '2007-12-31 00:23:27'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<em>s\u1D0D\u1D00\u029F\u029F \u1D04\u1D00\u1D18\u026A\u1D1B\u1D00\u029Fs
    \u029F\u026A\u1D0B\u1D07 \u1D1B\u029C\u1D07s\u1D07?</em>\r\n\r\nIndeed. But how
    do you do that? I copied & pasted it and there were about half a dozen different
    fonts there\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2007-12-31 00:41:38'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Electrotype or Stereotype...what are those?\r\n\r\nThey were methods of making
    single-piece printing plates from locked-up page galleys, mainly for the high-speed
    presses used by newspapers.\r\n\r\nnew\r\nMark Simonson\r\n28.Dec.2007 8.18am\r\nMark
    Simonson's picture\r\n\r\nAlso: Electrotype was used by pirates to copy fonts.\r\n\r\n.
    . . . . \r\n\r\nI would like to avoid niceties of language. Stereotypes (accredited
    to Firmin Didot) were used for newspapers, publishers and for other reasons, magazines,
    job printing, not to mention national advertising campaigns, when do I stop? If
    not here?\r\n\r\n\"Electro-deposited matrices\" were not only used by pirates
    but also by legitimates foundries maintaining their own fount matrix libraries,
    and, for example, producing legitimate copies for their clients. Common in the
    sorts department of the Lanston Monotype Machine foundry.\r\n\r\nI can see the
    difference. Can you?\r\n\r\nI could provide more details on Stereotypes, and Electroplates,
    not mentioned hear as I can not comprehend a need to know?\r\n\r\nGood night folks.\r\n\r\nGiampa "
  created: '2007-12-31 06:14:08'
- author:
    name: JCSalomon
    picture: 128147
  body: "&emsp;Russel, the passel of fonts you see is the browser looking for whichever
    font it can find that has the Unicode small-caps characters&mdash;and not finding
    it in any one font.&ensp;Fun, no?\r\n\u2014Joel"
  created: '2007-12-31 07:05:15'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>I can see the difference. Can you?</em>\r\n\r\nThanks for the clarification/correction,
    Gerald. I'm sure you know a lot more about these techniques than I do."
  created: '2007-12-31 16:01:27'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: It seems those spurious small caps are even browser sensitive even when the
    right fonts are installed. It looks almost just fine for me in Safari apart from
    some slight weight differences but totally messed up in Seamonkey.
  created: '2007-12-31 16:09:08'
- author:
    name: jcrippen
    picture: 113884
  body: "Each browser uses its own nonstandard methods of finding characters that
    aren\u2019t present in the current font. Hence the different behaviors even on
    the same operating system with the same fonts."
  created: '2007-12-31 22:52:43'
- author:
    name: Textwrapper
    picture: 112864
  body: "Fridays, we would \"Throw in\" at the letterpress shop. We would loosen the
    quoins, re-stock the furniture and \"throw in\" or dump the type out and put it
    all back in the California Job Cases.\r\n\r\nI swept the floors while the journeymen
    differentiated between d's, p's, b's and q's."
  created: '2008-01-01 01:02:27'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Exclamation points were called \"screamers\".\r\n\r\nQuestion marks were
    called \"queries\".\r\n\r\nThin strips of wood spacing are \"reglets\".\r\n\r\nWhen
    spacing material rises in a forme being printed, black marks show between words
    or between lines. They are called \"workups\".\r\n\r\nIn books, several zeroes
    were often set to indicate a page number to be inserted later, after the whole
    book was paginated, as \"See page 000.\" These zeroes were called \"deadwood\"
    or \"bogus.\"\r\n\r\nI can offer more, including one that some may find offensive.
    but I'm just back at the desk after two weeks off work [and blessedly away from
    computers] and there are piles of stuff to tend to. So let me get back to this
    in a day or so.\r\n\r\nH N Y to you all.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2008-01-03 14:53:13'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Oh...way to keep us hanging! Looking forward to hearing about the offensive
    and arcane printing terms!
  created: '2008-01-03 20:01:04'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "How the small caps above rendered on IE6.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/smallcaphell_6254.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-01-03 23:34:11'
- author:
    name: JCSalomon
    picture: 128147
  body: "&emsp;IE7 at least renders em & en spaces correctly.&ensp;IE6 can't get <em>anything</em>
    right!\r\n\u2014Joel"
  created: '2008-01-03 23:38:41'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "OK. Here's the possibly offensive one. Sometimes \"deadwood\" was set with
    sorts that were type high, but that had no image on them. They were rectangles
    that printed black. And they were very easy for proofreaders and comps to spot.\r\n\r\nIn
    many hot-metal shops, even unto the 1980s, the term for them was \"niggerhead.\"
    In fact, that is the only term I ever heard for them. & I was pretty startled.\r\n\r\n****************\r\nLet
    me also clarify \"deadwood\". That term is used not only for numerical placeholders.
    Any matter set to indicate where a compositor is to insert other sorts is known
    as \"deadwood.\" Or \"bogus.\" I worked at a Monotype shop where we had to insert
    Greek, Cyrillic, and Chinese by hand. Keyboard operators set deadwood to the approximately
    correct width and we comps would insert the non-Latin.\r\n\r\n****************\r\n\"Workups\"
    were pushed down with special awls known in the type and printing trades as \"bodkins.\"
    Or sometimes with a \"palm rule.\" I wish I still had a set of those.\r\n\r\nThat's
    it for tonight. Gotta go shovel snow.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2008-01-04 04:18:42'
- author:
    name: popluhv
    picture: 112707
  body: "[i]\u201CTwip\u201D and \u201Ctittle\u201D both strike me as particularly
    obscure. Got any others?[/i]\r\n\r\nNow I'm just itchin' for the chance to say
    \"that tittle needs to be nipped a twip\".\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-04 04:52:22'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<em>Looking forward to hearing about the offensive and arcane printing terms!</em>\r\nDo
    you want me to get started on German terms? For all these weird and wonderful
    terms in English there are those in all the other languages. I only had to learn
    them in two languages, and that was hard enough. "
  created: '2008-01-04 05:17:02'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: German terms would be great
  created: '2008-01-04 14:44:44'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> Exclamation points were called \u201Cscreamers\u201D.\r\n\r\nPlace I worked
    at years back called them a \"bang\"."
  created: '2008-01-04 16:22:41'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>German terms would be great</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, the most frequently
    quoted surely are \u2018Hurenkind\u2019 [child of a bitch] for \u2018widow\u2019
    and \u2018Schusterjunge\u2019 [cobbler boy] for \u2018orphan\u2019 \u2026\r\n\r\nA
    voluminous printed matter free of errors \u2013 without having made a single correction
    \u2013 is a \u2018Jungfrau(enwunder)\u2019 [\u2018virgin (miracle)\u2019 \u2013
    yes, printers & typesetters are/were predominantly male], \u2018Leading\u2019
    is called \u2018Durchschuss\u2019 [\u2018shot right through\u2019?], a \u2018Zwiebelfisch\u2019
    [onion fish] is a letter accidentally set in a different font (or a letter put
    in the wrong case), and an upside-down metal letter (so that the cone\u2019s bottom
    leaves its print)  is a \u2018Fliegenkopf\u2019 [fly\u2019s head]. \r\n\r\nThere
    are a lot more; and yes, I\u2019d like to learn about some more from Erik\u2019s
    experienced vocabulary, too \u2013 especially if they aren\u2019t included in
    <a href=\"http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Druckersprache\">this Wikipedia list</a>.\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/romibello/465006308/\">This map, the \u2018Typographiae
    Imperii Accurata Tabula\u2019</a>, is packed with type and printing terms, a lot
    of them \u2018arcane\u2019, most of them in German.\r\nMade by Linotype in 1967,
    found on Robert Michael\u2019s Flickr pages.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-04 17:41:33'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<em>Zwiebelfisch [onion fish] is a letter accidentally set in a different
    font (or a letter put in the wrong case)</em>\r\nNo, a letter in the wrong case
    is just a Fisch (fish). A \u201Cverfischter Kasten\u201D is a case full of wrong
    fonts. Sounds like a kosher sandwich, but was more often than not left to the
    apprentices (like me) to clean up. Which entailed setting <em>all</em> the type
    from the case into the composing stick to sort good from bad. And then \u201Cdissing\u201D
    it back, as we called that in London."
  created: '2008-01-05 07:23:34'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Aha, okay. Thanks for clarifying!\r\nBtw, for those who think \u2018Zwiebelfische\u2019
    are limited to the old metal days: Try inserting a \u010F\u012B\u0103\u010B\u0157\u0129\u0165\u0131\u010D
    that isn\u2019t included in Georgia \u2026 "
  created: '2008-01-05 19:54:22'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@eliason: <em>Some of Wikipedia\u2019s listed synonyms for the slash are
    new to me: \u201Coblique, diagonal, whack, separatrix, virgule, scratch comma,
    slant, or forward slash.\u201D Have any of you called it a whack, a separatrix,
    or a scratch comma before?</em>\r\n\r\n@aluminium: <em>Well, isn\u2019t that still
    typography? ...Perhaps there\u2019s a need for articles to have a section on \u2019contemporary
    variations\u2019 or the like.</em>\r\n\r\nI question whether what programmers
    do can be considered, or defined, as typography. Writing code is a form of typesetting
    in the sense that letters are set, but is it really typesetting or typography?
    I submit that it is not, because the goal of programming is not to set type in
    an aesthetically pleasing and coherent manner, but to write code to control the
    functions of a computer. Two different activites or professions are equated and
    conflated.\r\n\r\nThe definition of typography is being broadened to include things
    which are not typographic, but linguistic or semantic. Certain tasks in programming
    are being conflated with typography tasks. \r\n\r\nSo if the inclusionist philosophy
    wins in this absurd encyclopedestrianization of everything, and terms used by
    programmers must be included in typography articles because they are \"contemporary
    vernacular\", the sensible thing to do is make it clear what came from where,
    distinguish between typography and \"codesetting\". That would be a useful word
    for it. When composing you are typesetting, when writing code you are codesetting.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-05 20:15:01'
- author:
    name: Skeptical Ben
  body: "I worked a couple of years at a type shop with handset and hot metal still
    in operation more from nostalgia than dollars and sense. This was in downtown
    Los Angeles.\r\n\r\nMutt = Em space\r\nNutt = En space\r\nBang = Exclamation mark\r\nPoint
    = Period (to make it one syllable when proofreading with two people)\r\nCom =
    Comma (once again single syllable)\r\nSlug = You could buy slugs, leads, thins,
    all available at LA Type as different thicknesses of lead for leading.\r\nPi type
    = when you dropped the form, kind of like 52 card pick-up\r\nQuery = question
    mark, when proofreading\r\n\r\nBen Schoen"
  created: '2011-04-11 23:51:55'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: .
  created: '2011-04-12 01:09:04'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Twip is probably a term from modern-day typography, either phototypesetting,
    or the TrueType spec.\r\n\r\nBut the term \"tittle\" occurs in the Bible; the
    phrase \"jot or tittle\" means either the small Hebrew letter Yod, or a vowel
    point."
  created: '2011-04-12 02:36:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The use of twip in typography is new to me.\r\n\r\nIn computing it is a unit
    of measurement equal to 1/1440 of an inch, i.e. 1/20 of a PS point, and is used
    as a base unit of measurement in quite a lot of software."
  created: '2011-04-12 05:10:48'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "IIRC, Am\xED Pro was one of those WPs that metered in twips.\r\n\r\nGeviert/gefirt
    = em quad (mutton) in Germanic languages.\r\nThe term 'Hurenkind' was ported as
    such into Nordic languages -- 'horunge' in Norwegian, 'h\xF3ruungi' in Icelandic."
  created: '2011-04-12 21:55:48'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Eighty-eights weren't only pianos: they were business cards as well. You
    could get 88-up out of a standard 22\xD728 sheet of card stock..."
  created: '2011-04-12 23:13:44'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Double-checking, I see that \"jot\" might be Yod, or it might be Iota.\r\n\r\n[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tittle]]\r\n\r\n@John
    Hudson:\r\nThe use of the term \"twip\" in computing to refer to 1/20th of a <em>point</em>
    makes it a typographical term, not just a computing one. Even if it's only used...
    at the edges of the typographical community as it were."
  created: '2011-04-13 19:17:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I don't think it qualifies to make twip a typographical term that it is a
    subdivision of a unit used in typographical measurement. That would be like saying
    that 'inch' is a motoring term because it is a subdivision of a mile.
  created: '2011-04-13 22:59:37'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "The rules of our chapel strongly prohibit friars and monks.\r\n\r\nUsed to
    be, a devil would know his trade from gutter to gallows, from coffin to stone,
    now, all they do is hang pigs all day long, or waltz about with a hellbox."
  created: '2011-04-13 23:08:35'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "It's true that an inch is not a motoring term merely because it is a subdivision
    of a mile. But the fact that a twip is a subdivision of a point does strongly
    indicate it was used by people who were working with causing text to be imaged
    on paper.\r\n\r\nSo I considered it to qualify as a typographical term on the
    basis that it is still a typographical term when it is used by computer geeks
    playing at typography instead of by Real Typographers. But that would make it
    an <em>obscure</em> typographical term, because you would not find it in looking
    at a book about typography!\r\n\r\nIt seems to be part of Microsoft's Rich Text
    Format, along with being used in Visual Basic - and, yes, Microsoft is credited
    as originating the term."
  created: '2011-04-14 01:03:30'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "That would explain it. It's too computer-y to be a Real Typographical Term.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    I looked up some Danish typoterms on the 'Pedia:\r\n\r\nJesus letters: The largest
    possible letters on a front page.\r\nFuneral: Missing word or words.\r\nWedding:
    Repeated word or words.\r\nWidow: A last line with one short word."
  created: '2011-04-14 21:10:18'
- author:
    name: hotmetal
    picture: 124221
  body: "This is a fascinating thread. Quite a few of those terms certainly are arcane.
    \r\n\r\n<pedant>\r\nAm I the only one to notice that the link to this thread on
    its referring page (terminology) contains a typo:\r\n\r\nDiscussion:\r\nAracane
    Type Terminology\r\n</pedant>\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-09 12:20:11'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "\"Ara!\" Kasumi kasumied.\r\n\r\n@oldnick &ndash; Eigty-eight: Driver reverse!
    (British Army bingo call-out in WW2)"
  created: '2012-02-09 18:36:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '{To Read}'
  created: '2012-02-09 20:02:52'
date: '2007-12-27 20:21:37'
title: Arcane Type Terminology

---
