---
author:
  name: Bald Condensed
  picture: 110564
body: "As the [[Education]] wiki entry is 'tainted', I'd like to know which European
  schools offer specific programs to become a professional type designer, like the
  Department of Typography & Graphic Communication at the University of Reading, Type
  & Media at KABK, or the \xC9cole Sup\xE9rieure Estienne des Arts et Industries Graphiques."
comments:
- author:
    name: Kristian M
    picture: 111606
  body: "There is \u201C<a href=\"http://www.werkplaatstypografie.org/\">Werkplaats
    Typografie</a>\u201D in Arnhem--they have a two year master\u2019s program."
  created: '2007-12-28 00:20:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Typophile is a great international, informal on-line school for type design.
    It is an unsystematic but passionate and high level tutorial for learning type
    design, with some great teachers. And a lot of BS--you get to decide which is
    which :) \r\n\r\nYay Typophile!   "
  created: '2007-12-28 01:37:04'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "I wish I knew of something in Australia, but alas such things are unheard
    of here. If there is a type design center to the universe I'm in the place it's
    furthest from. Also try: an internet connection and regular visits to Typophile.\r\n\r\nIf
    there is a type design center to the universe, Typophile is it.\r\n\r\nj a m e
    s"
  created: '2007-12-28 01:56:42'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">There is \u201CWerkplaats Typografie\u201D in Arnhem\u2014they have a two
    year master\u2019s program.\r\n\r\nCool, is that new? Who is teaching type design
    there?"
  created: '2007-12-28 02:01:50'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "If it was me, starting out young and wanting to be a type designer I would
    go and knock on the door of a type designer/firm I admired.\r\n\r\nI have a Japanese-born
    acquaintance who wanted to learn the art and craft of the baren. He knocked on
    the door of the master every day for over a year and was rejected. True story.
    After a while he was let in to sweep the floors.\r\n\r\nHe pulls in about six-figures
    teaching this stuff at Yale.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2007-12-28 06:04:51'
- author:
    name: Kristian M
    picture: 111606
  body: "<cite>Cool, is that new? Who is teaching type design there?</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    don\u2019t know when it was first initiated--but Karel Martens and Armand Mevis
    supervise it."
  created: '2007-12-28 09:16:47'
- author:
    name: chocomilk
  body: "uhmm I almost post similar topic. anyway! my question is where is good school
    (bachelor degree or associate of art) to learn typography at USA or Canada or
    Northern Europe? I saw some schools like Art center and School of Visual art.
    Their curriculum quite promising  but its very expensive! I don't think even with
    a loan, I can get the money to go to school at there and living at there. Also,
    is a degree is really matter in the typography/design world? I want to graduate
    with a knowledge at least how to make my own typefaces. I want to try Ai Schools
    but uhmmm....\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-28 09:58:34'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "The [[Hochschule fuer Grafik und Buchkunst|Hochschule f\xFCr Grafik und Buchkunst]]/Academy
    of Visual Arts in Leipzig, Germany offers a 1-year \u2018Meistersch\xFCler\u2019
    program, supervised by <a href=\"http://www.hgb-leipzig.de/index.php?a=person&b=mitarb&id=131&\">Fred
    Smeijers</a>. However, there seems to be no information available online.\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-28 11:18:03'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: Typophile should make fake degrees... like the ones you buy on TV from the
    University of Phoenix.
  created: '2007-12-28 17:57:04'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "It\u2019s hard to pass off a fake degree in a field with only a few-hundred
    professionals who tend to be obsessed with the subject. An MBA, on the other hand\u2026"
  created: '2007-12-28 19:18:26'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "\"my question is where is good school (bachelor degree or associate of art)
    to learn typography at USA or Canada or Northern Europe\"\r\n\r\nDo you mean [[typography]]
    or [[type design]]?"
  created: '2007-12-28 22:51:47'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Typophile should make fake degrees... like the ones you buy on TV from
    the University of Phoenix.</em>\r\n\r\nPut Typophile on TV and call it The University
    of Typophile. Reintroduce Friday Night Type Fights. Televend today.\r\n\r\nj a
    m e s"
  created: '2007-12-28 22:58:34'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "I'm pretty sure my degree from OCAD has the words \"University of Imagination\"
    somewhere. Sounds pretty fake to me.\r\n\r\nWe can offer degrees in things like
    Advanced Ligaturation and Typgeneering. "
  created: '2007-12-28 23:26:03'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>\u201CUniversity of Imagination\u201D somewhere. Sounds pretty fake to
    me.</em>\r\n\r\nLOL! That's great Haley. <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/40198\">---You
    have won a free trip to the moon in the \"gleaming metal rocketship\" with Tiffany,
    Hrant, Linda, Sharon and Ricardo.---</a>\r\n\r\n<em>We can offer degrees in things
    like Advanced Ligaturation and Typgeneering.</em>\r\n\r\nI will be running <a
    href=\"http://typophile.com/node/40198\">---the Academy of Motion Picture Font
    Arts and Sciences. I have already bought up the commercial rights to all the best
    \"fonty-flavored\" film titles\r\n.---</a>\r\n\r\nYou will be assimilated.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-28 23:38:45'
- author:
    name: chocomilk
  body: "hahaha lol university of imagination! I am almost sending application to
    OCAD though! \r\n\r\n\"Do you mean typography or type design?\"\r\nHmmm both?
    I want to be good in typography and also, have big! knowledge of type design.
    \r\nI mean, I am just want to into at typography(logos,poster,motion title,experimental
    type design). I am not that fancy when it comes to packaging design (but I must
    take it!if Choose to learn graphic design **sigh** )\r\n\r\nI did heard about
    Academy of Visual Arts in Leipzig but! I don't think they are teaching in English
    :( I am thinking to go to Sweden but I still have no clue about which schools
    is good at there.\r\n\r\nyeah..! if only typophile can offer a degree! it would
    be awesome! even its going to be long-distance learning. A lot of schools offer
    that! "
  created: '2007-12-29 03:34:51'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "So you're just looking for a good design university that has solid typography
    teaching. There's a lot.\r\n\r\nOcad has a graphic design program that covers
    all of what you're after. They also have a very good type design teacher, Greg
    Van Alstyne. You can take typeface design as electives and there are several mandatory
    typography courses.\r\n\r\nBut go to Europe if you can."
  created: '2007-12-29 19:18:42'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>I\u2019m pretty sure my degree from OCAD has the words \u201CUniversity
    of Imagination\u201D somewhere. Sounds pretty fake to me.</em>\r\n\r\nOy.  When
    I was doing my Masters defence (in Environmental Design), you had to incorporate
    the words \"a sense of place\" somewhere, on threat of being forced to rewrite
    and redefend.\r\n\r\nBack when I lived near DC, I remember watching an advert
    for some \"institution\" that had a guy saying \"I've done so well since I got
    two Masters, I decided to get a third.\"\r\n\r\nYeah, what everyone needs: the
    third degree...."
  created: '2007-12-29 21:26:44'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Yeah, what everyone needs: the third degree....</cite>\r\n\r\nReminds
    me of a woman I knew who had two PHDs (really) and decided to teach public high
    school science classes."
  created: '2007-12-29 22:38:02'
- author:
    name: Avalon
  body: "\"But go to Europe if you can\"\r\nYeah, I personally think its better to
    go to Europe for design. \r\n\r\nWhich part of Europe you guys recommend it? I
    really want to go to London but I am just afraid the cost of living can cost me
    double. Other than that, I'm really considering to go to Netherland or Sweden
    and yeah,I am thinking to learn basic conversation of their language first before
    I am going to the university. \r\n\r\nThe reason, I want to go to Sweden because
    I just fallin' in love with the Swedish Design. "
  created: '2007-12-30 05:41:25'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: I, too, love Swedish design. But don't go to Sweden if you love the sun.
  created: '2007-12-30 20:58:57'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Southern Sweden gets enough sun:) I would go to Bergen though.
  created: '2007-12-30 23:27:26'
- author:
    name: ybaggar
  body: "Werkplaats typografie is not a type design program, it's a 2 years graphic
    design program. But there is KABK in The Hague for type design.\r\nFor graphic
    design I would recommend Switzerland or Netherland (rietveld, werkplaats). But
    there are good schools in most countries i think."
  created: '2007-12-31 00:39:14'
- author:
    name: magnus_rakeng
    picture: 109817
  body: If you like sun (midnight sun) come to Norway. Perfect for working with type
    all night  :-)
  created: '2007-12-31 15:05:09'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "My advice to you is to not think about the weather when choosing a school.
    A degree isn't that long to deal with the winter and you can always move to Spain
    when you're finished :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-31 17:42:17'
- author:
    name: sihep
    picture: 112339
  body: "There\u2019s a part-time postgrad type design course with some frighteningly
    impressive visiting faculty (including Hans-J\xFCrg Hunziker, Hans Eduard Meier,
    Fred Smeijers, Peter Bilak and Lucas de Groot) at the Z\xFCrcher Hochschule der
    K\xFCnste, taught in German and French.\r\n\r\nhttp://svk.zhdk.ch//ndktypo.html\r\nhttp://svk.zhdk.ch//ndktypo_fr.html\r\n\r\nZ\xFCrich
    isn't all that amazing for people who love the sun either, though.\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-31 18:12:12'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Touch\xE9, Haley."
  created: '2007-12-31 21:16:47'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Forgive me, I missed out on \"type\". I know a few good <i>designers</i>
    have studied\r\nVisual Communication at the Bergen National Academy of the Arts
    though, and I've been told Andrea Tinnes teach there."
  created: '2008-01-01 01:02:25'
- author:
    name: Avalon
  body: "hahahaahaha I dun care with the weather. I have been living in Seattle and
    Vancouver for like 6 years(I have been stop wondering when I can see the sun or
    when the rain going to be stop) so.. not much effect ;p Even I am originally born
    in SE Asia.\r\n\r\nI really dun mind to go to Norway or Sweden (lower cost, have
    few fav design agencies that and also, they speak English)\r\nPlus! I prefer northern
    europe cuz I always fancy their culture and uh uh uh gurls \r\n\r\n**sigh** why
    they only teach only on Germany or French :( Maybe I should moving to Netherland
    and ask my grandmother to teach me the language.\r\n\r\nAny suggestion around
    Asia? **totally going to be very low cost for me lol** \r\n\r\nBtw, the Program
    from Bergen so far look what I am looking for and they have a website in english.
    I should contact them to learn more about the tuitions etc "
  created: '2008-01-01 11:49:44'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "><em>**sigh** why they only teach only on Germany or French :( Maybe I should
    moving to Netherland and ask my grandmother to teach me the language.</em>\r\n\r\nBecause:
    (these are just my guesses\u2026)\r\n\r\n1. German, French, Italian, and Rheto-Romanish
    are Switzerland's four official languages. German and French are the two biggest.
    Z\xFCrich is in the German-speaking part of the country. Despite the increasing
    amount of English spoken among Swiss, the official \"second\" language in Z\xFCrich
    is likely to be French.\r\n\r\n2. Both the University of Reading in the UK and
    KABK in the Netherlands teach their postgraduate typeface design courses in English,
    even though the Netherlands, for example, only has one official language\u2014and
    by golly, it isn't even English!\r\n\r\n3. The French and the Germans (as well
    as, err\u2026 the Swiss) have their own brilliant histories of typeface design,
    which are rather quite separate from England's and that of the United States.
    Maybe they'd like to continue working in these spirits instead of, umm, burying
    them ;-)\r\n\r\n4. So that people who come from other countries to study there
    go through the effort of learning the local language and expanding their own minds
    and horizons at the same time. The whole world doesn't speak English, nor should
    it!\r\n\r\n5. Switzerland only joined the United Nations a few years ago, and
    heaven only knows if they will ever join the EU. They are a democracy, and they
    like doing things the way they please."
  created: '2008-01-01 13:41:32'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "Haha I'm from Vancouver as well and I can tell you, it's not fun when you
    start living in real winters with no car and no proper winter jacket because the
    only time you need any semblance of winter gear living in Vancouver is for traveling
    from bar to bar in Whistler.\r\n\r\nRight now I'm sitting in my Toronto studio,
    it's -6 with 35km snowy winds. Which is why we're moving to Spain :)\r\n\r\nAnyway
    I wouldn't go to Asia for school. I think generally it's a better idea to go to
    Asia after you have some experience as it can be hard to start out there. I'm
    talking mostly about Singapore and Dubai.\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-01 17:51:29'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'serious answer: [[Font Bureau]], look at how many big names have gone through
    the School of [[David Berlow|Berlow]].'
  created: '2008-01-01 18:40:23'
- author:
    name: Avalon
  body: "Thanks Dan for the information(i love you my man :)) Sorry to up set you
    though and uh uh I know the world doesn't speak English (me, myself fluently speak
    in 3 different languages)\r\n\r\nMiss Haley hahaha yeah I know what you mean but
    seriously, I prefer -15 degree with snowy winds rather than hot humid season.
    I am originally from Singapore and yeah! it's really hard to starting out at there.
    Most of my friends complained a lot cuz at there work 7 days a week with min 12
    hours shift (they don't get any health benefit)\r\n\r\nSpain eh? fancy..! \r\nbtw,
    I saw your website and seems you have some experience with interactive design.
    I just wondering, is that hard as a starter interactive designer? should I be
    good at action script? or just have good graphic design portfolio?cuz so far,
    most of the agencies in here looking more flash wizard. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-02 01:29:05'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "First off you're crazy for liking the winter!!\r\n\r\nI love working in interactive.
    As for coding, my office is larger (around 700 people), so we have the budget
    to have people to do the coding for us. My job is mostly all concept work and
    design. But I do know Flash and Actionscript because I don't think you can adequately
    design something to be produced in Flash if you don't understand the program or
    how the web works and how users interact with it. My boyfriend is also in interactive
    in a smaller agency (50 people) and because of that he needs to do some coding
    and flash work. \r\n\r\nYou don't want to apply to an agency as a flash person
    because you probably won't be doing much of your own creative work. Flash people
    = production, not creative. It's smarter to get an in as a creative intern then
    it is as production. Basically what's happening in the industry now is clients
    are expecting web elements to all their campaigns, where-as before it was more
    of a specialized thing. So agencies had to start outsourcing the production of
    the sites to smaller development companies until they realized they were getting
    totally fleeced by them. That's why there are so many flash and programming jobs
    opening up in-house right now.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-02 02:15:09'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "@Miss Giggles: Indeed, Typophile is no classroom and it won't provide the
    experience students seek, however I would argue that Typophile is still an excellent
    resource for students and professionals alike. It really all comes down to how
    you use the information you are given (maybe treating others with respect also,
    IMO). I am unsure of where you get your information, but students are absolutely
    welcome here and make up a very significant portion of the entire Typophile community.\r\n\r\nI
    will advise that you please keep the rude remarks off this site. So far, most
    of your contributions in this thread (and others) have been potentially hurtful
    to others, and the insults will not be tolerated. Name calling will get you nowhere
    here, and it certainly won't in your professional life either. If you have a problem
    with anyone in particular, please contact them offline, or contact one of our
    moderators to discuss.\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-03 00:48:23'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: miss g - If you don't feel welcome here, why continue to visit and post? Surely
    Typophile has been of some assistance to you?
  created: '2008-01-03 01:23:38'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "@Miss Giggles: I said it before, I will say it again -- if you have a problem
    with someone or something, you should contact a moderator offline. Please keep
    the excessive rants out of the forums. I have read through your posts (past and
    present) as well as what others have posted and in no way do I believe that you
    are being discriminated against because of your age or your status as a student.
    I do believe that your words and inability to be civil do have something to do
    with your reputation here. \r\n\r\nI won't continue this discussion in this forum,
    or any other. We'd be happy to discuss it offline, but I will ask you one more
    time to keep your insults and name calling off of Typophile.\r\n\r\ntypophile
    < at > punchcut dot com\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-03 01:38:02'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: Okay, I'll bite. The opening message claims the education wiki entry is tainted,
    and no one else seems to have commented on this. How is it tainted? Can we untaint
    it?
  created: '2008-01-03 14:02:41'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "Maybe because it seems to be incomplete?\r\nWhat's the focus of it supposed
    to be? Schools that teach graphic design in general or more focused on typography? "
  created: '2008-01-03 14:52:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Schools with a major in typography (not graphic design) are very rare. In
    the old days, typography was taught more as a printing discipline than a design
    discipline. Since the digital era has pushed that task to the graphic designers,
    courses in typography are but a part of the designers coursework. Type design
    majors are even more rare. Yves may have named most of them above.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-03 16:29:24'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "We should be able to update the wiki then. Most of the schools listed have
    their programs listed online. But if it's just a list of graphic design schools
    wouldn't it get really really long?\r\n\r\nPerhaps it could be limited to schools
    that other member recommend?"
  created: '2008-01-03 17:01:07'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>courses in typography are but a part of the designers coursework</cite>\r\n\r\nBraunschweig
    University of Art (in Germany) will start a specialised Master program in \u2018Book
    design & typography\u2019 in 2009, if I got it right."
  created: '2008-01-03 17:36:17'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "\u2026but that's typography, not typeface design, correct?"
  created: '2008-01-03 17:37:52'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Dan: Yep, I responded to Dezcom\u2019s post."
  created: '2008-01-03 19:22:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Florian,\r\nI am glad to hear that some new programs in typography are beginning!
    \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-03 19:43:43'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Why do I have to trawl thru all of this just to get some basic information!?
    :^P ;^) :^D\r\n\r\nOK, if you read my original question carefully, you'll notice
    I specifically ask for 'typeface design' -- no 'graphic design', no 'typography',
    no whatever, That's what I meant with the [[Education]] wiki being tainted: there's
    all kind of education in there. The only thing I need to know is 'typeface design'.
    Thankoo thankoo for the leads so far."
  created: '2008-01-04 22:04:19'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: And I meant 'tainted' solely from a personal point of view. I expected it
    to list only typeface design, because there's no point to include graphic design.
    This would make the list unmanageably long like Haley suggested.
  created: '2008-01-04 22:13:36'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "As far as I know in Mexico you can study:\r\n\r\nMaster's degree on type
    design\r\nCentro de estudios Gestalt\r\nhttp://www.cegestalt.com/diseno.html\r\n\r\nMaster's
    degree on graphic design with specialization on typotraphy and editorial design.\r\nUASLP
    (Universidad Aut\xF3noma de San Luis Potos\xED)\r\nhttp://www.uaslp.edu.mx\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2008-01-04 22:15:14'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: Hmm...
  created: '2008-01-06 12:22:29'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: Typophile would have been good if people allowed students to be accepted here
    for once. That would be a start.
  created: '2008-01-06 12:24:12'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: Is it possible to delete this comment box of mine?
  created: '2008-01-06 12:25:15'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: Hmm...this comment box needs deleting too.
  created: '2008-01-06 12:28:05'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: and this one. Sorry to have messed up your thread Bald Condensed.
  created: '2008-01-06 12:28:34'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: That's the problem with Typophile, Miss Giggles. You can edit your past comments
    all you want, but the community knows you've been saying all kinds of stuff. Maybe
    next time think twice before posting. ;^)
  created: '2008-01-06 22:37:10'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: 'okay okay. It just hurt me too much because it had happened before. Sorry...what
    more can a human do but apologise? '
  created: '2008-01-06 23:04:55'
date: '2007-12-27 23:14:10'
title: Where can one learn to become a professional type designer?

---
