---
author:
  name: Florian Hardwig
  picture: 112260
body: "[continued/excerpted from this thread: <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/40338\">The
  Most Useful OpenType Ligatures</a>]\r\n\r\nI really wish to see a text face with
  a solution for f+umlauts.\r\nIn German language, \u2018f\xE4\u2019, \u2018f\xF6\u2019
  and \u2018f\xFC\u2019 are anything but rare, just think of \u2018f\xFCr\u2019 [\u2018for\u2019].\r\nIn
  a lot of classic serif faces the drop of the \u2018f\u2019 reaches out quite far
  to the right. That\u2019s why there are ligatures like fl, ff, fi \u2013 to avoid
  collision, right?\r\n\r\nSo, dear type designers: before doing fancy things like
  including \u2018ffj\u2019 and \u2018\u017F\u017Fl\u2019 ligatures, 5 different ampersands
  and a truckload of ivies, please consider addressing this umlaut issue!*\r\n\r\nSee
  this illustration:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f-umlaut_4616.gif]\r\nYellow
  is (to me) only just acceptable, red isn\u2019t anymore.\r\nAnd, of course: the
  bolder, the more clotted it gets.\r\n\r\nBy the way, I didn\u2019t pick 4 fonts
  by Adobe because they were especially \u2018bad\u2019 \u2013 no, this problem is
  inherent to all faces that have an extensive \u2018f\u2019. I used these fonts as
  they are commonly regarded as being \u2013 in all aspects \u2013 very well equipped
  OpenType text fonts \u2013 and <em>still</em> suffer from this particular issue.\r\n\r\nIn
  my humble opinion, merging the \u2018f\u2019 drop with the left dot of the umlaut
  (as in \u2018fi\u2019) can\u2019t be the way to go \u2013 that would look really
  awkward. I\u2019d love to have an alternative \u2018f\u2019 with a narrower top
  for those cases, preferably with automatic substitution, via the lig feature.\r\n\r\nAnd
  while doing so, don\u2019t forget the triple combinations :\xB0)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/affaere_6019.png]\r\n\r\nI
  don\u2019t think this problem is limited to German language; the Swedish among others
  will benefit aswell.\r\n\r\n*) Don\u2019t get me wrong; I very much appreciate all
  those special equipment. All I want to say is: first things first.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nI
  see this came up before <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/33330\">in this
  thread</a>, though not especially focussed on umlauts \u2013 starting with <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/33330#comment-200644\">Charles\u2019
  4th comment</a>. There, <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/33330#comment-201090\">Thomas
  Phinney called</a> that less sweeping \u2018f\u2019 a \u201CLinotype f\u201D \u2013
  I suppose this then was due to technical limitations.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/40338#comment-248851\">cerulean
  said</a>:\r\n<cite><a href=\"http://www.mufi.info/fonts/\">MUFI fonts</a> have f\xE4,
  f\xF6 and f\xFC ligatures. They use the solution you reject as awkward, but considering
  the nature of the project I must assume there is historical precedent for the form.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes,
  Andreas St\xF6tzner\u2019s Andron Scriptor Web lets the \u2018f\u2019 drop merge
  with the left dot \u2013 even though there\u2019s no urgent need.\r\n\r\nPeter S.
  Baker\u2019s Junicode takes a different stance. While its \u2018fi\u2019 and \u2018fj\u2019
  <em>do</em> merge, its \u2018f\u2019+umlaut combinations offer a different solution:
  <strong>the \u2018long f\u2019 gets automatically replaced by an alternate!</strong>
  Exactly what I had in mind, great.\r\n(It additionally has \u2018true\u2019 ligatures,
  but to me, these ligatures with just an elongated \u2018f\u2019 bar feel like an
  end in itself \u2013\_and \u2018f\xE4\u2019 being discretionary)\r\n\r\nAndron (with
  ligatures off/on)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/andron_3698.png]\r\n\r\nJunicode
  (with ligatures off, w/ alternate \u2018f\u2019, w/ ligs on)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/junicode-3_3938.png]\r\n\r\nThey
  both introduce a single-storey \u2018a\u2019 for \u2018f\xE4\u2019. Is this only
  to avoid collision? Then, I think that\u2019s not a good idea; just imagine how
  odd words/lines would look like which feature \u2018f\xE4\u2019 <em>and</em> a regular
  \u2018a\u2019.\r\nOr do I miss the point, and these ligatures are for a specific
  historic application only? Who can shed light on this? Highly appreciated.\r\n\r\nAnd:
  Are there more recent & decent digital fonts with an alternate \u2018short f\u2019,
  like Junicode?\r\n\r\nThanks, F"
comments:
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: I've been working the last few weeks on [[http://typophile.com/node/40440|this]].
    See pdf page 4 (bottom). I've also used contextual alternates to avoid collitions
    (as I did on a smaller scale with [[http://www.josbuivenga.demon.nl/diavlo.html|Diavlo]]).
  created: '2007-12-30 19:54:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Florian, in the other thread you say that merging the arm of the f with the
    first dot on the umlaut doesn't seem like a good idea. \r\n\r\nWhat do you think
    of the following?\r\n\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fleishmann f-umlaut_5770.gif]\r\n\r\nThis
    is from DTL Fleishmann, by Erhard Kaiser, who is also German, so I assume that
    it doesn't look grossly wrong to the eyes of a German reader. "
  created: '2007-12-30 20:07:10'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Jos, that\u2019s wonderful news! You just don\u2019t stop amazing me \u2026
    ;\xB0)\r\nContextual alternates, that\u2019s definitely the way to go. 4 degrees
    of \u2018f\u2019 drop spread \u2013\_wow!\r\n\r\nWilliam: nice! I have to admit
    that this isn\u2019t as ugly as I had imagined \u2013 especially the italics are
    beautiful.\r\nI think one\u2019d have to see it in printed running text to really
    be able to render a judgment. Still, I\u2019m afraid it would hinder the train
    of reading; just like those fancy \u2018ct\u2019 or \u2018st\u2019 ligs \u2013
    nice to have for special applications, not so good for the normal, not historicizing
    case.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-30 21:38:12'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "Thank you Florian! For topic's sake I'll post an image here :)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ffff_4050.gif]"
  created: '2007-12-30 22:26:27'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Bill: <cite>This is from DTL Fleishmann, by Erhard Kaiser, who is also German,
    so I assume that it doesn\u2019t look grossly wrong to the eyes of a German reader.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn
    DTL Fleischmann these ligatures seem to work because the dot stands out as such.
    (Top parts of 'f' and long-s are rather thin toward the end.)\r\nYour inference
    is dangerous though. That one (typographically well educated) German does something,
    does not mean that all Germans need to like it. Same for uppercase eszett.&nbsp;&nbsp;;-)\r\n\r\nAs
    to one-storey 'a' ligatures -- if they exist for typographic reasons only then
    I think they are nonsense: In Andron, 'f\xF6' 'f\xE4' 'f\xFC' ligatures are not
    necessary since there are no collisions in the first place. And in Junicode, the
    alternate 'f' is much nicer solution, visually.\r\n\r\nI think Florian is right
    in that a contextual 'f' is the way to go. I do this too, but the other way round:
    the 'f' with short top part is the default one (since it is \"safe\") and is replaced
    by one with longer top part only if context allows.\r\nBut then, it is rather
    the various i-accents that are tricky since they cause problems with letters like
    'T' 'V' 'W' 'Y' or punctuation/delimiters like slash, braces, brackets etc too
    ...\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2007-12-31 09:10:03'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>What do you think of the following?</cite>\r\n\r\nThese Fleischmann
    ligatures are truly beautiful and would be great for any logotype, but I would
    agree with Florian: Don't merge the the f with the dots, it will never work in
    the body copy, because no one is used to this connection. So it would be worse
    than having no ligature at all. \r\n\r\nRalf\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-31 09:16:16'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026it will never work in the body copy, because no one is used to
    this connection.</cite>\r\n\r\nNobody was used to sans body copy, but it worked
    out just fine once people got used to it. Given how passive the act of reading
    can be, I think that a reader might stop once or twice and then not see it again."
  created: '2007-12-31 14:32:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">does not mean that all Germans need to like it\r\n\r\nI said \"not grossly
    wrong\", not \"like\". I was asking about \"like\".  \r\n\r\n>it worked out just
    fine once people got used to it\r\n\r\nNot. Extended text, such as in books and
    newspapers, is still rarely set in all sans. And for good reason in my view. I
    still think there are inherent problems with sans for extended text. Though I
    admit that modern sans with narrower proportions move more toward the readability
    of traditional serifs.  "
  created: '2007-12-31 14:58:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Great thread, Florian!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-31 15:03:55'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Nobody was used to sans body copy, but it worked out just fine once
    people got used to it. </cite>\r\n\r\nRight, but that's a very different thing.
    If some typefaces start to have those ligatures, they would only annoy the readers
    and hardly train them. \r\n\r\nWe really should think about the ligatures we build
    in our fonts and not just putting anything in there, just because we can (thanks
    to OpenType.) Sure, it looks great in the type specimen, but that's not the purpose
    of ligatures, is it?\r\nHere is another bad example: http://www.typografie.info/typoforum/viewtopic.php?f=17&t=4629#p35497\r\nIt
    simply doesn't work. Using a shorter f is the only way to go. \r\n\r\nRalf\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-31 15:32:47'
- author:
    name: filip blazek
    picture: 110363
  body: "Franti\u0161ek \u0160torm included f+umlaut ligatures in his Walbaum Text
    family. Check it at http://www.stormtype.com, there is a PDF showing all the ligatures."
  created: '2008-01-01 12:08:36'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "f-umlaut-Ligatures will never work, they are too rare to get used to (given
    the fact that not every typeface has them, and most even don't need them), and
    can be too missleading.\r\n\r\nIt is better to just adjust the spacing of these
    characters, or, if you really are into micro-aestetics, there is a wonderful solution
    for collision problems via opentype: contextual alternates."
  created: '2008-01-01 18:12:07'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Unsurprisingly I am on the contextual alternates bandwagon here too. The
    DTL Fleishmann is beautiful but I would prefer to use it for a headline or a logo
    rather than in a running text block.\r\n\r\nLovely Thread!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-02 18:05:50'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I rarely use umlauts, so maybe my opinion isn''t necessary. However, while
    the Fleischmann is pretty they don''t strike me as useful, even for display. '
  created: '2008-01-02 21:57:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don't think it's possible to isolate this issue to one accent and one language.\r\n\r\n(Unless
    one cleverly uses OpenType language tags to provide different versions of the
    same accent for different languages, but that in itself seems over-elaborate and
    thus poor design.)\r\n\r\nIn general, accents work better when they are closer
    to the median (top of the x-height), and not floating too far away from the letter.
    However, the dot over the i is different--it works better when it IS significantly
    higher, with space necessary to disambiguate it from \"l\", and this causes difficulty
    in harmonizing the tittle (dot accent) on i, \u017C, \u0117, and \u010B, with
    the other accents, especially the dieresis.\r\n\r\nThe type designer is faced
    with a dilemma: the need for a high tittle but low dieresis, a disparity which,
    to most of us, just doesn't look right. Usually, one opts for a dieresis that
    is almost as high as the tittle. This looks quite smooth in most languages, but
    the high dieresis does cause difficulties in old-style typefaces with their overarching
    \"f\" arms. \r\n\r\nA question I would like to ask the Germans, Turks and Finns:
    does it bother you when the tittle and the dieresis are at obviously different
    heights? (See option 3 below.)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fs_6608.jpg]\r\n1.
    The default height for dieresis, with a lot of extra kerning added after f.\r\n2.
    The dieresis lowered, and a little extra kerning after f.\r\n3. The dieresis lowered
    a lot, and no extra kerning after f.\r\n4. A contextual alternate f to precede
    a-dieresis etc: however, the difference in \"f\"s may be a problem.\r\n5. A narrow
    \"f\" throughout.\r\n\r\nOptions 1 and 2--with extra kerning--are quite good solutions,
    although type designers today, aided by class kerning, are not inclined to individually
    kern each \"f\" combination. \r\n\r\nI favour option 5. After all, the old-style
    \"f\" with long arm was never designed with multi-lingual setting as a criterion.
    If Bill Caslon had been required to satisfy Finnish, Turkish, and German typesetting
    in the Antiqua (old-style), I doubt he would have given his \"f\"s such expansive
    arms. The reason for the large overhang was, I believe, to make the plain f more
    like the f in the f_i and f_l ligatures, and to thereby not draw attention to
    the ligatures. However, when one also considers the problem it creates for the
    accented characters, then the large overhang is NOT the best solution. It solves
    f_i and f_l (f_b etc), but at the expense of making f_adieresis etc. much worse.
    Therefore a narrow f throughout is the best design.\r\n\r\nAlso, the wide arm
    of an \"f\" at the end of a word can occasionally jump right over a space and
    interfere with a following T or W, and surely this should be avoided (e.g. A Tale
    of Two Cities).\r\n\r\nIt seems to me that the use of contextual alternates is
    a last resort, and that there is something dubious in adopting slightly different
    alternate letter forms to solve this kind of design problem--it dilutes the personality
    of the typeface. Nonetheless, what Jos has done looks fine, and I've been experimenting
    in a similar manner.\r\n\r\nThe \"f\" substituted into Caslon here was taken from
    Palatino. Hermann Zapf's narrow f works well with a high dieresis--and the separateness
    of f and i was even maintained in its foundry type ligatures. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-03 08:24:53'
- author:
    name: rabattski
    picture: 110095
  body: Totally unproductive but this is an awesome thread, seriously interesting.
  created: '2008-01-03 09:53:29'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>A question I would like to ask the Germans, Turks and Finns: does it
    bother you when the tittle and the dieresis are at obviously different heights?
    </cite>\r\n\r\nYes, it bothers me a lot. As a German reader I want them to be
    at the same height and also with the same size. "
  created: '2008-01-03 11:25:38'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Another German reader's choice:\r\n\r\nThe f -- version 5.\r\nDieresis positioning
    -- version 2.\r\n\r\nMore on dieresis positioning: \r\nVersion 5 looks strange
    to me, the dieresis is taking off.\r\nIt would be interesting to know whether
    readers whose languages include 'zdotaccent' or 'cdotaccent' feel disturbed if
    their dots sit as high as that of the 'i'.\r\n\r\n[Edit: Maybe I am just a bit
    oldfashioned and dot and dieresis on the same height work if neither the (i-)dot
    sits too low nor the dieresis too high.]\r\n\r\nOff-topic, but since you started
    discussing vertical positioning of accents:\r\nWhat bothers me again and again
    is placing accents on uppercase. Given that accents vertically align on a common
    'baseline' (rather than being center-aligned), accents on letters with overhang
    (like 'O') look closer to the letter than on letter without overhang (like 'I').
    And it is particularly annoying with open letters (like 'U' or 'N'). In text setting
    this may not be visible, but in display setting it is ...\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-03 13:51:10'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "I nearly almost follow Adam Twardoch's view on the [[http://www.twardoch.com/download/polishhowto/kropka.html|dotaccent]]
    and also place dieresis on the same height. \r\n\r\nThere was also a remark on
    my blog (about the 1st Diavlo) from someone who said \" ... Some languages have
    very popular words when letters with dot accent are next to \u201Ci\u201D, and
    your beautiful font harmony suddenly disappears ... \"\r\n\r\nContextual alternates
    work very well imho ... especially in combination with the ligature and kern feature
    (see <cite>animated</cite> gif).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ffff_4647.gif]"
  created: '2008-01-03 15:14:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "On the i dot verses dieresis height: \r\n\r\na possible solution is to have
    a language specific alternative i with a smaller, lower dot for languages where
    the i and umlauted letters are in frequent proximity. \r\n\r\nIf you did this,
    for what languages would it be appropriate to substitute the i with the lower
    dot? Finnish seems to be one. Any CE languages? \r\n\r\nIncidentally, one typographically
    aware German speaker told me there was not problem with a higher i dot. As I understand
    it, in German the i is very rarely followed or preceded immediately by an umlauted
    letter.   What do others say on this? \r\n\r\nI am completing a Caslon revival,
    and the high, heavy i dot is in fact important to the traditional 'look' of Caslon,
    so I am reluctant to change that.  "
  created: '2008-01-03 16:15:14'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Jos, that looks bang-on to me. Very very nice example.\r\n\r\nNick & jos
    what fonts are these?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-03 20:24:34'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: Thanks Eben. My little Christmas workout is called [[http://typophile.com/node/40440|Calluna]].
  created: '2008-01-03 21:33:05'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: Ack, thread resurrection (sorry).  In German the i might not follow often
    an umlaut, but in Spanish or Portuguese, about 50% of the time an i will follow
    an umlauted u.
  created: '2009-05-19 22:15:29'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "OK, I'll help resurrect. In case somebody stops by and wonders about umlaut
    placement, let me just say here's a native German speaker who firmly believes
    there is generally no problem at all with tittles being higher up than umlauts.
    When people try very hard to make them the same height it can actually look quite
    off, especially when the dots of the umlaut are noticeably smaller than the tittle
    (which I also believe can work, it depends on the font). \r\nThe thing to keep
    in mind is that umlauted letters are different letters than their non-umlauted
    counterparts \u2013 meaning the di\xE6resis must read as an integral part of the
    glyph. If say an \"\xE4\" looks like an \"a\" with something small floating way
    up (as can easily happen when the di\xE6resis is small and at tittle height),
    it doesn't read optimally.\r\n\r\nFWIW, this is how my eyes see things. Feel free
    to disagree:\r\nhttp://www.altaira.de/posted/tittles_umlauts.pdf"
  created: '2009-06-02 23:02:33'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Nina, I get a 404 following your link :(
  created: '2009-06-02 23:15:51'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Argh! Thanks for pointing that out, Ben. It should work now.
  created: '2009-06-02 23:20:58'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Yep, working. Interesting. I think you've seen [[http://www.twardoch.com/download/typecon2005_gaultney_twardoch_noise.pdf|Adam
    Twardoch's pdf on diacritic design]] since you mentioned the Polish creska in
    the other thread? It looks like the nicest diereses are substantially lower and
    smaller than the tittles. Very useful to know, thanks for your pdf :)
  created: '2009-06-02 23:34:14'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks for that link Ben! I have indeed been looking at Adam Twardoch's writings
    with regards to Polish diacritics, but only <a href=\"http://www.twardoch.com/download/polishhowto/index.html\">on
    his web site</a>.\r\n\r\nLike I said, I'm not sure how authoritative the opinions
    expressed in my PDF should be taken to be. They come pretty much from a \"user\"
    perspective (but a slightly obsessed one ;) )."
  created: '2009-06-02 23:59:38'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">a slightly obsessed one\r\n\r\nI think that's why we're here on Typophile
    ;)\r\n\r\nFWIW the lower and smaller dieresis looks more 'correct' to me too,
    though I have had minimal exposure to this particular diacritic. I'll be lowering
    it in Mint."
  created: '2009-06-03 00:05:20'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>in Spanish or Portuguese, about 50% of the time an i will follow an
    umlauted u.</em>\r\n\r\nCan you give examples? Portuguese from Portugal does not
    use umlauts at all. Umlauts are occasionally used in Portuguese from Brazil, AFAIK
    to indicate when the 'u' in 'qu' needs to be pronounced (e.g. [[http://pt.wiktionary.org/wiki/freq\xFCente|
    freq\xFCente]])"
  created: '2009-06-03 01:08:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Finnish I think its been said works better with i dot and j dot on the same
    lower level as diacritics. Are there other languages? Evidently it''s not a problem
    in German. '
  created: '2009-06-03 01:24:09'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Miguel, I learned Brazilian Portuguese, but it's been a while (and I know
    they're still fighting over the orthography so maybe something's changed).  The
    dieresis is only used in the sequence <em>[gq]u[ei]</em>.  I don't think the rare
    <em>qu[oa]</em> sequence would have it (quasar, quorum).  In Spanish, the dieresis
    is, outside of poetry, only used in the sequences <em>gu[ei]</em> to show the
    <em>u</em> is pronounced.  The Portuguese <em>q\xFC</em> is replaced with <em>cu</em>
    \ \r\n\r\nHence my estimate of roughly 50%: if the dieresis/umlaut shows itself,
    it will necesarily be followed by an <em>e</em> or an <em>i</em>."
  created: '2009-06-03 02:09:12'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Miguel and Matthew\r\n\r\nI just downloaded to my mac the <a href=\"https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/thunderbird/addon/6081\">Brazilian
    spell checker for Thunderbird</a>, installed it following the indications, found
    it as a text file  called pt_BR.dic in a subsub... folder of ~/library/thunderbird/Profiles/
    and had a look at it.\r\n\r\nIf I grep \xFC in that file, I get 765 entries (that
    may be different words or lemmatizations of the same word). If I grep \xFCi, I
    get 388 entries, starting (after sorting) with ag\xFCista ambig\xFCidade ambig\xFCifloro
    ang\xFCicida ang\xFCiforme ang\xFCiliforme antig\xFCidade aq\xFCicaldense aq\xFCicalor
    aq\xFCicultor and ending with ubiq\xFCismo ubiq\xFCitar\xEDstico ubiq\xFCit\xE1rio
    ung\xFCi ung\xFCiculado ung\xFCiforme ung\xFCinal ung\xFCinoso uniling\xFCismo
    \xFAng\xFCis but also containing (but not so many, at first sight) variations
    of the same word, like this nice list\r\n\r\nsag\xFCi, sag\xFCi-amarelo, sag\xFCi-branco,
    sag\xFCi-caratinga, sag\xFCi-comum, sag\xFCi-de-bigode, sag\xFCi-de-duas-cores,
    sag\xFCi-de-m\xE3o-ruiva, sag\xFCi-de-orelhas-compridas, sag\xFCi-do-brasil, sag\xFCi-do-rio-de-janeiro,
    sag\xFCi-imperador, sag\xFCi-ordin\xE1rio, sag\xFCi-pequenino-do-maranh\xE3o,
    sag\xFCi-preto, sag\xFCi-preto-de-bigode-branco, sag\xFCi-veludo, sag\xFCi-vermelho\r\n\r\nand
    similar lists for sag\xFCim, sag\xFCins and sag\xFCis.\r\n\r\nTo draw conclusions
    on actual frequencies, a native speaker or complementary statistics are required.
    Indeed, even if in those entries more than half of the time \xFC is followed by
    an i, that that does not imply that in actual texts the same proportion is to
    be found. That depends on the frequency of use of those words.\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-03 14:53:47'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Florian mentions Swedish above;  here is what I get from the <a href=\"http://wiki.services.openoffice.org/wiki/Dictionaries#Swedish_.28Sweden.29\">Swedish</a>
    <a href=\"http://wiki.services.openoffice.org/wiki/Dictionaries\">OpenOffice spelling
    dictionary</a> : it contains only 66920 entries, but there are as many as 2920
    occurrences of \"f\xF6\" and 698 of \"f\xE4\" (with 81 occurrences of \"ff\xE4\",
    only 6 of \"ff\xF6\", and no \"f\xFC\"). Rem: those are occurrences of digrams
    in the file, not word counts.\r\n\r\n[edit] I get 2901 words containing f\xF6
    and 698 containing f\xE4.\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-04 14:45:56'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: 'In Chinese Pinyin, there are four "toned" version of u, each of which can
    follow f: U+016B (u with macron), U+00FA (u with acute), U+01D4 (u with caron)
    and U+00F9 (u with grave).'
  created: '2009-06-05 00:56:31'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: In Chinese Pinyin, f can also be followed by toned versions of a, e, and o
    in addition to u. Thankfully, in an f+i combination the i is always plain.
  created: '2009-06-05 09:12:00'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: Actually, "fi" combination doesn't exist at all in Pinyin (at least not for
    Han Chinese).
  created: '2009-06-06 01:22:44'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "My Chinese dictionary lists \"fi\xE0o\" as a dialectal variant pronunciation
    of \u8985, which is why I added the above comment. But checking again, I see that
    it's the only such case given in the dictionary, and seeing as it's one variant
    reading that has the f+i combination, it would be just as well to say that the
    combination doesn't exist for pinyin for standard Chinese."
  created: '2009-06-07 22:15:53'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "You're right! This single character with this unique pronunciation does indeed
    exist according to the <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chinese_dictionary#Chinese-Chinese_dictionaries\">Xi\xE0nd\xE0i
    H\xE0ny\u01D4 C\xEDd\u01D0an</a>, even though the common standard <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xinhua_Zidian\">X\u012Bnhu\xE1
    Z\xECdi\u01CEn</a> doesn't have it.\r\n\r\nNow I'm unsure whether there are other
    \"fi\" combinations among the even more obscure characters -- some of which might
    even have tone marks on their \"i\". Unfortunately, I don't have the <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hanyu_Da_Zidian\">H\xE0ny\u01D4
    D\xE0 Z\xECdi\u01CEn</a> around."
  created: '2009-06-07 22:41:13'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: this thread is getting cooler and cooler
  created: '2009-06-08 19:36:09'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: 'A relevant post: http://www.typophile.com/node/61027#comment-362977 (Thread
    on letter pair / diacritic pair frequency)'
  created: '2009-08-21 16:16:46'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Daily collision:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/hardwig/4379097597/\"
    title=\"Daily collision of f + umlauts by Florian Hardwig, on Flickr\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fahert-fuer_6323.png]</a>"
  created: '2010-02-22 18:32:46'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<dl><dt>The <strong>\u0456\u0457</strong>, <strong>\u0457\u0456</strong>,
    and <strong>\xEF\xEF</strong> combinations are common in Ukrainian, e.g.</dt><dd>\u201E\u0412
    \u043E\u043D\u0430 \u043F\u043E\u0432\u0435\u043B\u0430 \u0439\u043E\u0433\u043E
    \u0434\u043E \u0432\u0456\u0442\u0430\u043B\u044C\u043D\u0456, \u0434\u0435 \u0447\u0435\u043A\u0430\u043B\u0430
    \u0440\u043E\u0434\u0438\u043D\u0430 \u2014 \u0445\u043B\u043E\u043F\u0447\u0438\u043A
    \u0456 \u0434\u0456\u0432\u0447\u0438\u043D\u043A\u0430 \xEF\xEF \u0432\u0456\u043A\u0443,
    \u0434\u0440\u0443\u0436\u0438\u043D\u0438\u043D\u0430 \u0441\u0435\u0441\u0442\u0440\u0430
    \u0442\u0430 \xEF\xEF \u0447\u043E\u043B\u043E\u0432\u0456\u043A. \u041E\u0441\u043D\u043E\u0432\u043D\u0456
    \u043F\u0440\u0438\u043D\u0446\u0438\u043F\u0438 \u0456 \u043C\u0435\u0442\u043E\u0434\u0438
    \u0430\u0443\u0434\u0438\u0442\u0443 \u0433\u043E\u0442\u043E\u0432\u043E\u0457
    \u043F\u0440\u043E\u0434\u0443\u043A\u0446\u0456\u0457 \u0432 \u0439\u043E\u0433\u043E
    \u043E\u0440\u0433\u0430\u043D\u0456\u0437\u0430\u0446\u0456\u0457. \u0412\u0456\u043D
    \u0437\u0443\u0441\u0442\u0440\u0456\u0432 \u0457\u0456 \u0440\u0456\u043A \u0442\u043E\u043C\u0443
    \u0443 \u0414\u0435\u0431\u0440\u0435\u0446\u0435\u043D\u0456, \u043A\u043E\u043B\u0438
    \u043D\u0430\u0439\u043D\u044F\u0432\u0441\u044F \u0434\u043E \u0457\u0456 \u0431\u0430\u0442\u044C\u043A\u0430
    \u0434\u043E\u0433\u043B\u044F\u0434\u044F\u0442\u0438 \u043A\u043E\u043D\u0438.\u201C</dd></dl>\r\n\r\nOf
    course, Cyrillic <strong>\u0456</strong> (U+0456) and <strong>\u0457</strong>
    (U+0457) are different characters from Latin <strong>i</strong> and <strong>\xEF</strong>,
    and yet.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-28 16:23:26'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "I\u2019ve just spotted a typo in the above Ukrainian text. In the first sentence\u2014from
    F.S. Fitzgerald\u2019s <em>Babylon Revisited</em>\u2014<strong>\u0412\u043E\u043D\u0430</strong>
    (\u2018she\u2019) should be a single word, not two. Sorry."
  created: '2010-02-28 17:36:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Related: http://typophile.com/node/83250\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-25 17:41:49'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "I never understood why especially Adobe does not pay more attention to this
    issue. They take so much care to support Greek and Cyrillic systems, but did not
    realize that some of their most prominent fonts are of diminished use in German
    and other languages using the Latin system. \r\n\r\nMinion and Adobe Caslon are
    some of the few commercial fonts I own, but I avoid using them in German. For
    a person who does not need or own a lot of different font licenses, Minion is
    in many regards close to a perfect serif font, because of it subtle beauty and
    versatility. (Of course it might be generic, the more fonts one has to choose
    from.) It is just sad, that this seems to be such a non-issue for many. "
  created: '2011-12-02 17:31:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Flooce, probably because of this thread and related ones, in Williams Caslon
    Text I put in contextual alternative f's to avoid f + umlaut clashes. \r\n\r\nI
    also put in a stylistic set that lowers the traditional high dots on the i's and
    j's for German or Finnish, if you prefer that. \r\n\r\nThe contextual alternatives
    for f + umlauts are default, and the lowered and smaller dots are stylistic set
    2. [[http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/WilliamsCaslonText/ot/|Here]] are some of
    the alternatives, and [[http://www.fontbureau.com/media/pdf/WilliamsCaslonText-Features.pdf|here]]
    is a comprehensive list, with examples.\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2011-12-02 18:42:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Why not just publish a German language-specific version?\r\nYou could also
    include lowered cap umlauts and ck, ch, and tz ligatures as default.\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-02 18:51:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Nick, I''m not sure whether German speakers actually want those options.
    My cap diacritics are already pretty tight, and a German-speaker here complained
    about the umlaut lowered around the O as looking like Mickey Mouse ears. If someone
    wants some additional glyphs, of course I could do them. '
  created: '2011-12-02 19:19:06'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: I'm not sure why this thread got revived -- to complain about Adobe? -- but
    in any case, we've been reworking their fonts for years with a contextual f, sometimes
    more than one. And not just for umlauts. There are other accents that cause problems
    too. Try a f+grave, sometime. Or even the sequence "f+space+J" -- "of Jewish .
    . . " is one of the stock things I look at when kerning & preparing contextual
    alternates.
  created: '2011-12-03 02:07:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Following your discussions of this on Typophile, Charles, I also did the
    f + other accents\u2014some examples are in the above linked PDF. Also in things
    like \"of Thomas\", I used calt to adjust the word space. I made four alternative
    f's plus separate glyphs for f followed by i_dieresis and by i_grave. Also three
    calt classes for use with f and spaces and other things. It seems to all work
    smoothly. (Not shown in the PDF.) I didn't think of f+space+J, but my J is descending,
    so with the terminal f before the space, it doesn't seem much of a problem\u2014though
    it might not meet your standards!    "
  created: '2011-12-03 03:12:28'
date: '2007-12-30 19:38:57'
node_type: forum
title: f + umlauts

---
