---
author:
  name: bieler
body: William <BR> <BR>I find attempts at classification like Bringhurst&#39;s a bit
  misleading, in the sense that they assume continuum. The historical perspective
  that &#34;we&#34; enjoy was not apparent prior to the use of the camera for documenting
  historical artifacts. Typefounders such as Caslon worked &#34;in the contemporary&#34;
  so to speak and were influenced in that way, not by historical precedents. The Dutch
  were drawing upon contemporary German, French and East European work. It would be
  wrong to assume they had knowledge of typeface development in an historical sense.
  <BR> <BR>So to some extent I would say they were not sacrificing elegance of letterform
  since they were not aware of previous effort. I think a reading of Moxon, writing
  in 1683 and very fond of the Dutch work, will reveal this. Both Updike and McLean
  show typographic developments as very culturally nationalistic. I believe this the
  correct path to follow in discerning why typeface design changed prior to the introduction
  of the camera. It explains much more than classification systems can.
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; sacrifice elegance of letter form to get greater readiblity or friendliness
    <BR> <BR>In the normal meanings of those terms: yes, almost exactly&#42;. The
    &#34;authentic&#34; French style for example &#40;like Garamond&#41; is more elgant,
    but less legible. <BR> <BR>&#42; Although &#34;legibility&#34; here, not readability.
    <BR> <BR>&#62; Bringhust mentions that the &#34;Baroque&#34; types have an irregular
    stress. <BR> <BR>Yes, like this: <BR><a href="http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/odium3.gif"
    target="_blank">http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/odium3.gif</a> <BR>BTW, my
    initial analysis of Fleischman is that he was a readability demigod, and those
    &#34;inconsistencies&#34; were careful functional effects. Notice for example
    in that sample that the <i>x-height</i> is also inconsistent. Of course, that&#39;s
    the type of thing that people like Bringhurst would never accept... It&#39;s so
    unpoetic! <BR> <BR>&#62; I  find attempts at classification like Bringhurst&#39;s
    a bit misleading <BR> <BR>Yes, to some extent. Especially for &#34;living&#34;
    work. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-06-02 00:43:15'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: '&#34;I am wondering whether part of this might be because it is more forgiving
    to irregular inking, pressure, wear and tear, etc. - following up on your &#39;workhorse&#39;
    idea.&#34; <BR> <BR>The only significant technical development that I am aware
    of that may be at play here would be the &#34;improved&#34; wooden common press
    that had been developed by the Dutch. It may have been more revealing in terms
    of presswork, and required or allowed a different approach, but this is speculation.
    However, prior to the art movement phenomenon of the late nineteenth and early
    twentieth century, technological advancements did tend to be of some significance
    in altering the type road.'
  created: '2003-06-02 00:50:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;those &#34;inconsistencies&#34; were careful functional effects <BR>
    <BR>Yes, Hrant, that&#39;s what I&#39;m interested in - what functional effects,
    if any did they have in mind? You who know type history or who have studied these
    faces, do you have thoughts on a &#39;method in the madness&#39;?  <BR> <BR>Did
    they have a specific concept of how variation in x-height or stress might help?
    Do any of you detect or have read of a system or theory behind it? Or did they
    just put one letter next to another, and weren&#39;t bothered by random variations?
    <BR> [What is your GIF of, Hrant - old printing?]    <BR>'
  created: '2003-06-02 01:18:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; what functional effects, if any did they have in mind? <BR> <BR>First
    of all, there&#39;s no &#34;they&#34;. It&#39;s just Fleischman. And nobody before
    him or since has had the balls to do what he did &#40;that I&#39;ve seen&#41;.
    <BR> <BR>Second, I&#39;m no Fleischman expert - in fact the font in that sample
    &#40;#65 in the Enschede inventory, and the most focused expression of his particular
    &#34;style&#34;&#41; was brought to my attention by Andy Crewdson. A number of
    people have made Fleischman revivals, but none of them have dared to incorporate
    his <i>structural</i> innovations. Even the most daring interpretations have restricted
    themselves to superficial aesthetic funkiness - that misses the whole point &#40;except
    as yet another source to milk&#41; in my mind. <BR> <BR>Now, Fleischman was too
    far in the past to have benefited from the findings of Javal concerning how we
    read &#40;and certainly not those of Bouma&#41;, so he couldn&#39;t have known
    any of the empirical things we know today. On the other hand, he could very well
    have been smart enough to figure things out -at least on a qualitative level-
    on his own. It really doesn&#39;t take much brains to realize that information
    arises from contrast, and the part of the lc &#34;d&#34; for example that conveys
    the most information is the ascender - for that reason you would make the body
    smaller &#40;as he has&#41;. And you might give the &#34;o&#34; a different stress.
    And you might make your head serifs larger than the foot serifs. Things like that.
    <BR> <BR>But of course I can&#39;t be too sure about what&#39;s in the head of
    a man who worked three centuries ago... <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-06-02 06:00:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;the findings of Javal concerning how we read &#40;and certainly not
    those of Bouma&#41;,  <BR> <BR>Where can I read Javal and Bouma?'
  created: '2003-06-02 13:54:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Well, all I&#39;ve seen of Emile Javal is indirect, referenced by pretty
    much anybody interested in reading. As for Herman Bouma, his research is readily
    available through books and papers, if you have access to a good library &#40;especially
    one with ILL capability&#41;. Unfortunately though, Bouma is now retired, and
    he never distilled his findings into one neat package. For a superb single work,
    check out Taylor &amp; Taylor&#39;s &#34;The Psychology of Reading&#34;, 1983.
    <BR> <BR>Mainly: <BR>- Towards the end of the 19th century, Javal established
    that reading proceeds in saccades &#40;jumps&#41;, not a flow. <BR>- In the 1970s
    and 80s, Bouma clarified the ways in which we generally read word-shapes &#40;or
    actually, letter-clusters&#41;, as opposed to complining words from recognized
    letters. <BR> <BR>What this means for instance is that an x-height can indeed
    be too large for optimal readability &#40;even though it might be great for seeing
    an individual letter&#41;. <BR> <BR>Also: <a href="http://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_read1.html"
    target="_blank">http://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_read1.html</a> <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>'
  created: '2003-06-02 16:06:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Hrant writes, &#39;In the 1970s and 80s, Bouma clarified the ways in which
    we generally read word-shapes &#40;or actually, letter-clusters&#41;, as opposed
    to complining words from recognized letters.&#39; <BR> <BR>In light of which,
    this session at the upcoming <a href="http://www.atypi.org/">ATypI</a> conference
    will likely be of interest: <BR> <BR><i>Kevin Larson. </i>The psychology of word
    recognition.<i> <BR>There is a misperception by some in the typographic community
    that words are recognized by the outline that a word makes.  Kevin Larson presents
    evidence, much of it from detailed measurements of eye movements while reading,
    demonstrating that we don'
  created: '2003-06-02 22:52:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Make sure you bring at least one guy from the remaining 90% of reading researchers
    who would disagree heartily. BTW, this would include MS&#39;s own Bill Hill, who
    [re]invented ClearType based on the bouma model. Note how small Berling&#39;s
    x-height is, for example. But really, if you want a [non-retired] guy who really
    knows his stuff, try to get O&#39;Reagan. I have to say that giving only the minority
    view to ATypI attendees does a deep disservice to the craft. The last thing we
    need now is a return to obese x-heights! <BR> <BR>If Larson is basing his conclusions
    on measurements concerning reading on-screen, then I would simply point out that
    speeds are much lower there, exactly because it&#39;s a lot less immersive! It&#39;s
    like that joke where the researcher concludes that when you cut off somebody&#39;s
    legs, he loses his sense of hearing, because he no longer obeys the &#34;walk&#34;
    command... But maybe Larson&#39;s view is currently convenient for MS...  :-/
    <BR> <BR>Although I&#39;ve done no emprical research myself, the truck-load of
    research that I&#39;ve read over the past five years leaves no real credibility
    for the &#34;letter-compiling&#34; model. Sorry. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-06-02 23:08:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Kevin Larson was hired by Bill Hill, so I would be very surprised to find
    their views so at odds as you suggest. <BR> <BR>I think you are, typically, reacting
    too quickly to a <i>blurb</i> for Larson&#39;s presentation. Why not wait until
    you actually know and understand what he is going to present and have seen the
    evidence on which he is basing his conclusions? I suspect, even in reading his
    blurb, you are probably missing the subtlety implied in what he says. It seems
    to me that he is looking at the question &#39;How do we recognise words?&#39;
    Which is not the same thing as questioning <i>whether</i> we recognise words and
    groups of letters as the primary units of reading. He is investigating how we
    recognise those primary units and his evidence suggests that it is not by the
    <i>outline</i> of those units but by their components. I don&#39;t know any more
    than you do what the details of this presentation will be, so why don&#39;t we
    wait and see? I simply brought the presentation to your attention because it is
    relevant to the discussion that has evolved in this thread. I&#39;ll be perfectly
    happy to discuss it in detail <i>after I&#39;ve heard it</i>. One thing I&#39;m
    pretty sure of though is that Larson is not advocating a return to massive x-heights.
  created: '2003-06-02 23:25:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: You&#39;re right - I&#39;m jumping a bit. One reason is that I really wanted
    to come to Vancouver, but I won&#39;t be able to make it, unfortunately - so this
    might be my only chance to disagree! I did two conferences last year, and just
    came back from an overseas vacation, so this year will have to be conference-free
    for me. :-&#40; Best of luck with it, anyway. <BR> <BR>Just be careful of people
    whose job might depend on what they advocate... On the other hand, maybe I should
    be happy people are thinking more analytically; really, <i>anything</i> is better
    than the Familiarity escape clause used for the past 15 years to shirk responsability,
    both by the PoMo Hooligans <i>and</i> their arch-enemies, the Chirography Grovelers.
    It&#39;s funny - they remind me of the villages of Homs and Hama in Syria... <BR>
    <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-06-02 23:38:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I have studied a bit more the Adobe Caslon vs metal Linotype Caslon Old Face,
    composing in in 11/13 Adobe Caslon an identical paragraph as in the book I have.
    What is more noticable than any difference in letter forms is: a. greater thick-thin
    contrast; b. more apparent irregularity in x height; and c., the most noticeable,
    there is less space between letters and words in Adobe Caslon than the Linotype
    version.  <BR> <BR>Has spacing tightened up in digital type generally? Is this
    affecting readability? If the shapes of individual letters are perceived, as the
    announced talk seems to suggest, then having looser spacing might help ease of
    reading. '
  created: '2003-06-03 00:56:38'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: William <BR> <BR>Adobe would have attempted more harmony, less contrast due
    to the many variabilities in digital output devices. Linotype only had to be concerned
    with their own linecasting machine. I&#39;ve used Adobe Caslon letterpress and
    it worked out well, but it just seemed to lack the character of metal type. <BR>
    <BR>Is the Linotype variation on the x height due to sizing changes or baseline
    shifts? The latter were quite characteristic of smaller text sizes in machine
    composition, both Linotype and Monotype. Never did find out the rationale for
    this, whether it is a concern for readability or a technical situation. <BR> <BR>There
    would have been a natural restriction as to how tight a Linotype could space due
    to the natural boundary of the metal matrix. Adobe didn&#39;t have this restriction;
    most digital type seems a bit tight. Problematic when you go to letterpress with
    it as you risk &#34;ink bridges&#34; &#40;between very close characters&#41; developing
    during the editioning.
  created: '2003-06-06 03:42:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;lack the character of metal type. <BR>Thanks, that confirms my suspicion
    that there is a design issue here, not just different printing methods. I agree
    that ACaslon is excellent, but it just doesn&#39;t have the spirit of the metal.
    <BR> <BR>&#62;variation on the x height due to sizing changes or baseline shifts
    <BR>There seem to be both mechanical and design issues going on. When I get it
    figured out, I might try to do a trial face with it.  <BR> <BR>Looking at laser
    printouts of the PDFs of Founders Caslon 12 from Fontexplorer.com, it &#40;at
    12/14&#41;does capture the &#39;softness&#39; of the metal, but I don&#39;t think
    gets the same overall effect.  <BR> <BR>&#62;most digital type seems a bit tight
    <BR>Ah ha! My unease with something in Minion &#40;pre-open type version&#41;
    was what brought me to post a question at this site. Now I&#39;m thinking that
    the problem might be slightly too-tight spacing. But I&#39;m wondering about this
    in general with digital type. I remember that when photo type came in, my late
    Uncle J. Ben Lieberman, author of &#39;Types of Typefaces&#39; &#40;mentioned
    above&#41; hated the &#39;close but not touching&#39; fashion that had become
    possible, and which almost all ads used. He thought that excessive tightness was
    messing up the shapes of the words and readability. <BR> <BR>Thank you Gerald
    for your very helpful comments!  <BR>    <BR>'
  created: '2003-06-06 16:06:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; the problem might be slightly too-tight spacing. <BR> <BR>Note that
    the actual point size used has <BR>great bearing on optimal letterspacing. <BR>
    <BR>&#62; &#39;close but not touching&#39; <BR> <BR>Which was the second worse
    thing about the 70s, <BR>after obese x-heights. Oh, and disco. And yes, <BR>I
    know it&#39;s no longer fashionable to hate disco. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-06-06 22:13:01'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: '&#62; &#39;close but not touching&#39;  <BR> <BR>&#62;Which was the second
    worse thing about the 70s <BR> <BR>You must be joking Hrant! <BR> <BR>There was
    some great  work done by Herb Lubalin, Seymour Chwast and others in the 70s employing
    &#39;close but not touching&#39;  that still looks fresh and exciting today. <BR>Many
    times they touched and overlapped just for good measure. <BR> <BR>I feel there
    was a more creative approach taken to headlines in the 70s, than what is being
    composed on computers today. <BR> <BR>gn'
  created: '2003-06-07 05:15:35'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: 'gn <BR> <BR>Significant changes in technology tend to allow for different
    &#34;creative&#34; approaches. If the Linotype technology restricted the ability
    to set characters tightly and the photofilm technology of the 60s, 70s, and 80s
    allowed one to set extremely tight; these approaches need to be understood as
    historical developments and not taken out of context. Digital technology follows
    a different path and yields a different aesthetic. If work from the 70s appears
    &#34;fresh and exciting today&#34; that is simply because digital technology allows
    us to mine the past. This is less a retro thing than the result of technological
    change; we&#39;ve seen these before: with the introduction of wood type and the
    changing of the way type foundries marketed their wares in the nineteenth century,
    with the introduction of machine composition and the revival movement in the early
    twentieth century, with photofilm at mid-century.... typefaces from different
    times and different places proffered up together. Part of the confusion here about
    Caslon is that the various permutations of it are being taken out of historical
    context. You really can&#39;t qualitatively compare a letterpress designed typeface
    and a digitally designed typeface, for instance, without a consideration of how
    they were to be used or are to be used. '
  created: '2003-06-07 20:23:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Good point&#40;s&#41;, but: <BR> <BR>&#62; these approaches need to be understood
    as historical developments and not taken out of context. <BR> <BR>That&#39;s only
    half the story, the &#34;Art&#34; side. <BR>Since typography and type design have
    an essentially functionalist foundation &#40;to me&#41;, there&#39;s also the
    issue of how people read, and deep down that only changes when the species mutates!
    So very very slowly... <BR> <BR>One can only hope that when somebody is setting
    [text] type, he&#39;s more minding the subvisible, functional stuff, and less
    trying to express some ephemeral personal cultural preference. Specifically, too-tight
    spacing destroys the balance of black and white space essential to making out
    boumas. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-06-07 20:42:14'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: Isn&#39;t a bouma one of those double humped camels? :-&#41; <BR>
  created: '2003-06-07 20:51:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: No, but come to think of it, a bactrian does make a much better bouma than
    a dromedary! <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-06-07 21:01:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;actual point size used has  <BR>great bearing on optimal letterspacing
    <BR>Hrant,do you think that in text size, 10-12 point, the ideal change in spacing
    is sufficiently non-linear that this should be taken into account? <BR> <BR>Gerald,
    one more question about ink spead in letter press. Is this primarily due to the
    roller getting ink slightly on the sides of the face, and then getting picked
    up when pressed into the paper, or is ink actually squeezed out from the face?
    The reason I ask is that if it is only the first, then I would expect the spread
    to be even around the face, whereas if the second, then the thick strokes would
    have more ink spread than the thins. '
  created: '2003-06-08 03:05:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; do you think that in text size, 10-12 point, the ideal change in spacing
    is sufficiently non-linear <BR> <BR>I think there&#39;s a difference in optimal
    letterspacing between 10 and 12, but you could fudge an average in that range
    any few would mind. <BR> <BR>BTW, InDesign&#39;s optical spacing algorithm is
    bi-linear: no change below 4 point, a straight line between 4 and 12, a separate
    straight line between 12 and 72, and then no change above that.  <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>'
  created: '2003-06-08 18:13:12'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: William <BR> <BR>To some extent you are encountering both. Each time you pull
    a print you are taking ink off the form but not all of it. Increased impression
    beyond what is adequate for the inking of the form, incorrect roller height adjustment,
    natural variability in ink charging, accumulation of ink deposit on rollers and
    type, all contribute to the problem. Differring paper surfaces will contribute
    widely to the problem as well. <BR> <BR>Fine printers might clean the type form
    of accumulated ink fairly regularly during an edition run but this would be a
    rare occurrence in commercial work. Unattended, the problem will increase during
    the run. Since the ink is quite viscous it will draw other ink to it, so any ink
    that begins to accumulate outside the definition &#40;outline&#41; of the letterform
    will increase. Sometimes this ink is being pushed there by roller action, other
    times by the incorrect application of ink by the operator &#40;too much ink for
    the form&#41; or a combination of both.  The ink is clinging not only to the edge
    of letterform but also is drooping somewhat down the bevel. Once this happens
    there is little recourse except to clean it off. Though metal typefaces often
    have ink drains built into the bevel, this would not really help that much with
    sloppy presswork. <BR> <BR>Specifically, if the rollers are incorrectly low they
    will push down too hard on the type and add ink to the outline but this might
    not be uniform as it would have to do with the relative weight of the letterform
    &#40;serifs might take the brunt of it&#41;, the actual configuration of the form
    &#40;the lone edges of longer lines or isolated words might be hit harder&#41;,
    as well as the rolling direction of the rollers &#40;vertical vs horizontal movement
    causing a distorted accumulation&#41;. <BR> <BR>Did this address your question?
    <BR>
  created: '2003-06-09 00:01:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Gerald, what I gather is that the distortions from ink spread can be very
    inconsistent, so that you can&#39;t just say it happens one way. Thanks.  <BR>
    <BR>
  created: '2003-06-09 00:32:33'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: William <BR> <BR>Yeah, that&#39;s kind of the short of it.
  created: '2003-06-09 00:51:20'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: William <BR> <BR>One last point to this perhpas. I recently scanned an obscure
    metal typeface with the intent of digitizing it and in the process I have noticed
    something that might not have been dealt with.  <BR> <BR>Chank or someone has
    a tutorial on typeface design that essentially reveals that pieces of letterform
    constructs are used over and over again to form the composites of the various
    letterforms. A time saving device that I assume, as I get into this now, must
    be a fairly standard practice in digital typeface design. <BR> <BR>Problem is,
    this metal typeface, which has some pedigree, doesn&#39;t follow that technique.
    Every character has a bit of slight alteration to it. No cut and paste technique
    available then I guess. <BR> <BR>So, maybe that is another reason why you see
    a nice variability to older metal based typefaces that you do not in digital revivals???
    <BR> <BR>Gerald
  created: '2003-06-16 01:13:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Just as it makes the manufacture of fonts much easier on the whole, digital
    design is a particular facilitator of copy-paste modularity. But whether in metal
    or bezier, this is a Bad Thing, at least in the realm of text faces. Literal modularity
    is anathema to readability. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-06-16 01:25:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;Every character has a bit of slight alteration to it. No cut and paste
    technique available then I guess.  <BR> <BR>I also observed this in my scan of
    metal Linotype Caslon Oldface. I think this is unquestionably one of the factors
    in the different look of metal and digital.  <BR> <BR>I think there is some valid
    analogy here to a tune in music. I read or heard somewhere that music has to be
    something like 50% repetition and 50% variation. &#40;I may have the percentages
    wrong.&#41; The idea is that without the repetition, there is just a string of
    notes, and no tune. With too much repetition, it becomes boring like a TV jingle.  <BR>
    <BR>I think that digital type - and you interestingly identify an source in &#39;cut
    and paste&#39; - may have become too repetitive. <BR> <BR>The challenge will be
    to have the greater variation and still keep the unity and balance of the design. '
  created: '2003-06-16 14:10:49'
- author:
    name: serafino
  body: William <BR> <BR>If you are looking at the same Linotype Caslon I am it is
    a great cutting. However, have you viewed the italic? <BR> <BR>No so great! <BR>
    <BR>I seem to have missed much while I was moving and not online. Don&#39;t want
    to change the subject but have you seen our new page. <BR> <BR>If you don&#39;t
    like ornaments don&#39;t bother! <BR><a href="http://www.lanstontype.com/LanstonPriceList.html"
    target="_blank">http://www.lanstontype.com/LanstonPriceList.html</a> <BR> <BR>Gerald
    speaks of many ink aspects of type. There are, as he says, many conditions ready
    to alter a  type face. The ink on the first impressions will not be the same in
    the middle of the run, the ink on the end of a run once again much different.
    Worn type, battered type, unclean type, linty papers, faulty make readys, soft
    packing etc. <BR> <BR>Lets not forget work ups. Not only spaces did that! <BR>
    <BR>Roller syndrome, sheeps foot, winter and summer gelatin rollers. <BR> <BR>But
    no mention yet of &#34;type stretch&#34;. I hate to toss this into the equation.
    Did you know on a cylinders press you can measure the type form and then the printed
    text. The text may be a pica bigger??? Plays hell on close registration! <BR>
    <BR>A properly imposed hand set or monotyped page will tend to be slighty taller
    in proportions. Linotype properly imposed slightly wider? <BR> <BR>I do not agree
    that printers did not care about how a type face looked. A good craftsman, and
    there were many, cared a great deal how a typeface looked. <BR> <BR>I hired many
    printers and found them to be an extra-ordinary learned lot. <BR> <BR>Even in
    the work horse environment. <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>Gerald
  created: '2003-06-17 07:47:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;If you are looking at the same Linotype Caslon I am it is a great cutting.
    However, have you viewed the italic? No so great!  <BR> <BR>If it is Linotype
    Caslon Old Style, we probably are looking at the same thing. I also don&#39;t
    like the italic, which is hard to read. As I am still trying to figure out what
    exactly is causing the look I like so much. As you like it too, what do you think
    it is? How would you compare it to other Caslons, including your 337? <BR> <BR>I
    wish you had some alphabets &amp; PDFs on your web site! <BR>'
  created: '2003-06-18 02:05:53'
date: '2003-06-02 00:32:02'
node_type: forum
title: Archive through June 17, 2003

---
