---
author:
  name: gillo
  picture: 113901
body: "I've been working for this company for a year and a half. I hate their logo.
  I'm really looking for a good reason to prove to my boss that the logo is ugly and
  that changing it won't hurt the branding of the company. My boss is the wife of
  the company founder. She and I both have fine arts educations, not design. She drew
  the logo and is very possessive of it. I think the fish is ugly and the free font
  \"Addcityboy,\" is not only ugly, but impractical as it becomes unreadable at a
  not-so-small size. Here is a progression of the logo since I have been working here:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logospost_4574.jpg]\r\na.
  The official logo when I arrived\r\nb. The alternate logo when I arrived. Used mainly
  in print.\r\nc. The logo appearing on the homepage when I arrived.\r\nd. My first
  attempt at shaving some of the crap off the logo\r\ne. The fish would fit nicely
  with the slant of the letters if only it was flipped over and rotated a bit. That
  is not allowed. Precious fish must remain unadulterated.\r\nf. I was able to shave
  off a little more excess.\r\ng. we hired this outside marketing/ecommerce software
  making company to build us a new website and help us with branding. They made the
  letters dimensional and then dropped them on to of the flat fish in order to save
  space which, imo, looks totally awkward. This is how the logo looks now at the to
  of our website.\r\nh. This is how it will look when the brand new fancy site is
  launched (if it is launched, the company we hired has been kind of a disappointment).
  They wanted to update the look by making it more web 2.0, thus the shadows and gradients.
  How can they say it is more web 2.0 when they've removed the lighter yellowish green-
  arguably the most web 2.0 color on the web?\r\ni. My suggestion for web 2.0 -izing
  the logo.\r\n\r\nActually, I'd really rather scrap the whole thing. By the way,
  any guesses at what the company does? In addition to the logo, I think the company
  name is somewhat inappropriate and misleading, but I'm not going to get into that.\r\n\r\nPlease
  tell me if I'm crazy and the logo looks fine, or if I'm right and rethinking the
  branding strategy might be a good idea.\r\n\r\nThanks"
comments:
- author:
    name: Tintin81
    picture: 112693
  body: "I think the company name is great! It's highly memorable and - provided they
    are really focussing on *water* sports and not rock climbing - it should work
    very well. What else could you do but use a green fish in the logo? The way you
    did that looks great to me!\r\n\r\n[[http://www.designbits.de|Designer Hamburg]]"
  created: '2008-01-03 15:38:41'
- author:
    name: lapiak
    picture: 111789
  body: "You're not crazy. That's a horrible logo, and it needs to be scrapped or
    improved dramatically. Colors and type need to be changed, and that shark needs
    to be improved.\r\n\r\nI had the same situation in a print shop that I worked
    for one summer. The owner didn't want to go through another logo change, and I
    proposed a digitized version of their original 1920 logo (amazing mark that was
    originally drawn and was in red and black, and looked great when I converted it
    to vector), but sadly, today it remains an ugly rainbow buffalo in distorted type
    (forgot the name of the typeface they used, but it was bad)."
  created: '2008-01-03 15:45:02'
- author:
    name: gillo
    picture: 113901
  body: except that we sell bikes
  created: '2008-01-03 15:51:36'
- author:
    name: BruceS63
    picture: 111542
  body: You sell bikes?! The logo and name don't indicate that at all. I would've
    guessed kayaks. It is a great name, as pointed out above, but give people a clue
    as to what you do. That fish needs a bicycle! Oh, wait....
  created: '2008-01-03 16:30:40'
- author:
    name: smongey
  body: cringe!
  created: '2008-01-03 16:58:12'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "To tell you the truth, logo did improve a lot. If you sell bikes I think
    you will have to change type because I think a VERY similar type is used in many
    many sport equipment companies (Gary Fisher for instance). It's different but
    not too much.\r\n\r\nUsing a bold typeface may not necessarily be bad since people
    associate it with sports because many companies use it, but it should be distinct
    enough.\r\n\r\nWeb 2.0 logo for a company that doesn't provide web 2.0 services
    to on-line communities etc. doesn't really make any sense to me. I'd rather go
    with a regular logo and then colour upgrade it with gradients/shadows/etc. if
    really needed.\r\n\r\nIf you're a bike reseller I'd rather focus on that. A shark
    in the logo may be quite ok, since it's agile, aggressive and powerful. But not
    the one that you're using right now because it's rather cartoonish.\r\n\r\nType
    in logos from A-F is very bad with various slants etc. G and F seem the only ones
    that may be usable.\r\n\r\nSome simple and fast suggestions:\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>I'd
    make all letters in Greenfish of the same size, without emphasizing the G.\r\n<li>in
    this case \"adventure sports\" will have to be adjusted\r\n<li>create a new shark
    that would be more suitable for a logo and more powerful and adventurous that
    this cartoonish one\r\n<li>discard the colour at first and work from BW examples\r\n</ul>"
  created: '2008-01-03 17:23:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If your boss drew the thing with her own creative hands and she is the wife
    of the founder, I think you have a monumental task of persuasion ahead of you.
    \r\nYou are right though, it is an unbelievable piece of crap and surely is a
    detriment to business!\r\nTry going for an outside design consultant with an unbiased
    opinion who can site marketing data. This will be a tough sell for you alone in
    your position.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-03 17:26:21'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: As a moderator I should remind you that Google loves Typophile and all the
    words you are typing are being cached even as we speak. If you don't want your
    boss to find this, even accidentally, you might want to stick to non-specific
    words. On the other hand, if you don't mind, then don't mind me.
  created: '2008-01-03 18:06:05'
- author:
    name: gillo
    picture: 113901
  body: Thanks-I had considered that, but forgot when I started ranting. Perhaps I'll
    try to edit a bit!
  created: '2008-01-03 18:19:33'
- author:
    name: gillo
    picture: 113901
  body: Thanks so much for all your comments! I've been looking at this thing for
    so long that sometimes I begin to think maybe it's not so bad. Then every time
    I try to incorporate it into any sort of layout I just hate it. The fish is the
    result of compounding the founder's name plus his wife's former name. I think
    it's kind of clever. I think the financing partner contributed the "adventure"
    part, hoping to spice it up a bit. When I first came across the company I thought
    maybe they led some kind of wilderness fishing trips. I guess mountain biking
    can be an adventure, but I don't think most of what we sell really reflects that.
    The word Bikes was excluded from the title because the founder aspires to be the
    next Dicks Sporting Goods, eventually moving beyond just bikes. Really I think
    our branding problems stem directly from the wishy-washy business plan, or complete
    lack of a business plan, which is most frustrating, but I was hired to make pictures,
    so who am I to question their strategies? Unfortunately, it's very difficult to
    produce effective graphics when one doesn't know exactly whom one is marketing
    to or what one is supposed to be representing. I could vent for pages and pages,
    but I'll spare you! Not sure how I'll convince the boss- I guess outside consulting
    would be the only way, but we are reluctant even to pay $30 for a decent font,
    I can't see anyone agreeing to pay an outside consultant!
  created: '2008-01-03 18:22:23'
- author:
    name: gillo
    picture: 113901
  body: ack! editing doesn't so much edit as repost! Oh well, I guess I stand behind
    my opinions, and if this thread is found I will have plenty of unbiased opinions
    to back me up! Hoping to be moving on in a few months anyway...
  created: '2008-01-03 18:25:35'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"My boss is the wife of the company founder.\"\r\n\"She drew the logo\"\r\n\"we
    sell bikes\"\r\n\r\nMight be easier to start looking for a new job. ;o)\r\n\r\nAs
    long as the company name remains, I'd say you're best off just making the logo
    small and live with it.\r\n\r\nAs you point out, the real issue is that you sell
    bikes, and this logo and corporate name is rather confusing given that fact. Ultimately,
    it appears the company could benefit from a total rebranding from the ground up
    including name."
  created: '2008-01-03 19:58:25'
- author:
    name: Cari
    picture: 113896
  body: If you do get them to redesign you'll win diplomat of the year. And we just
    started 2008 so you can tote that badge for a long time yet!
  created: '2008-01-03 20:38:32'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...except that we sell bikes\"\r\nDo the fish where breathing apparatus
    or do the bikes go underwater?"
  created: '2008-01-04 17:26:36'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/spongebob-bike_6282.gif]'
  created: '2008-01-04 17:50:05'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "A fish on wheels!\r\n\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-01-04 18:23:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Give a woman a fish and she will eat for one day; teach a woman to fish and
    she will sell bicycles.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-04 18:35:32'
- author:
    name: inde
    picture: 112647
  body: "\"Give a woman a fish and she will eat for one day; teach a woman to fish
    and she will sell bicycles.\"\r\n\r\ni laughed the hell out of this one! :) great
    one ;)\r\n\r\n\r\nstick a bike to the fish? :O\r\n\r\nIm just kidding, look, it
    is not necessary the logo to present exactly what the content of the company is,
    unless it is that it stays a logotype with no mark (if you understand me) in this
    situation the evolution of the company has led to a logo that i agree that it
    is misleading.\r\n\r\nIf you see no intention of changing or altering the logo
    whatsoever, dont do it! you work there man, i wouldnt care, i design logos and
    logotypes and there i can do whatever i want (not according to the clients but
    i get along fine convincing) id say, forget it ;)"
  created: '2008-01-04 18:56:24'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "\u2026and a fish on a bicycle is such a classic image. \r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/guinfoab2-1_4683.GIF]\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-04 22:21:19'
- author:
    name: dunk
  body: "Ouch... that really is an ugly logo and you have my sympathies.\r\nMy own
    opinion is that it's never going to work while it has that ugly shark associated
    with it. Like someone else suggested, trash the cartoon and work on something
    a little more complimentary to the business, same goes for the font. The whole
    thing just feels rather cheap. But I guess there's not a whole lot you can do
    about it other than feel smug in the knowledge that we all think it looks crap
    as well. My background was in Fine Art too. Having flicked through more artist
    friends' websites than I care to remember I'm not ashamed to tell you with some
    certainty that studying fine art doesn't automatically qualify you as a designer!
    That's not an insult of your own talents by the way!"
  created: '2008-01-06 00:37:47'
- author:
    name: nerdski
    picture: 113914
  body: I wanna see it without the black stroke, but it's come a long way.
  created: '2008-01-06 03:10:17'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Shark? Where? I can't see a shark. \r\nI just see a fish with bad teeth and
    an eye problem. And it's green. So where is the association with sharks? It's
    just a fish trying to look intimidating and winking at you at the same time. Come
    on, it can't be that difficult to draw a better fish. Have you tried it? I agree
    with your critics but just shaving it's not enough, you have to come up with something
    to replace the existing one, and one your boss won't have any objections to. \r\nHaving
    said that, it's clear to me that it's a taste issue. A lot of people love this
    kind of grotesque cartoonish stuff. There's nothing you can do about it. It's
    their taste and they don't find anything wrong with that. \r\n\r\nSo is a crusade
    worth it? Has your boss shown at least some flexibility or will to make changes
    (I mean radical changes)? I doubt it. I went through something similar. My boss
    was incredibly proud of his creation, which everyone else thought was monstrous.
    Results: I quit. Moved on. No big deal. \r\n\r\nGood luck, you have my sympathy."
  created: '2008-01-06 17:44:58'
- author:
    name: adnix
    picture: 109591
  body: "[[http://www.illustrationclass.com/index.php?s=pirana|Illustration Class]]
    had a tutorial on a fish logo. In no way am I telling you to copy this logo, it's
    just for reference and to show the boss what a cool, edgy fish logo can look like.\r\n\r\nAlso
    check out the book Identity Crisis by Jeff Fisher.\r\n\r\nDavid"
  created: '2008-01-07 21:54:08'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I laughed heartily at this thread. I am sorry about the situation. \r\n\r\nIf
    they want to grow the biz to be the next Dick's they will need to re-brand. But
    the if & when & how will probably not be at your choosing. \r\n\r\nKeep in mind
    your reasons for wanting to change it ( it makes me crazy ) is not a legitimate
    business reason. If it can be shown that there is a good business case they might
    bite. But MANY a small business stays small because of an inability to separate
    the personal ( I made that, I am used to it ) from business thinking. And some
    folks are phobic about this 'marketing stuff' and just get irrational when confronted.\r\n\r\nListen
    to Lore she makes sense.  "
  created: '2008-01-08 01:53:19'
- author:
    name: Scott Leyes
    picture: 112337
  body: "I've got a similar issue where I work -- not that I hate the existing logo,
    but i know it could be so much better (given that we are a creative firm), and
    work better in hundreds of ways, but it's OUR LOGO - our brand is out there, and
    changing it (even a little) means going against years of built-up equity.\r\n\r\nI
    spend a lot of time working on ways of presenting our logo in a unique way - illustratively,
    cropping, ghosting, reflecting, etc. etc... makes it seem much fresher without
    the loss of what it is.\r\n\r\n\r\nIMHO, the only place a logo NEEDS to be used
    \"as is\" is in a trademark application; once it's set, play with it!"
  created: '2008-01-08 02:13:22'
- author:
    name: gillo
    picture: 113901
  body: "That we can't afford to throw away all of our  \"built up equity\" is essentially
    what my boss tells me whenever I try to mess with the logo. I usually don't push
    the issue, though because I have a feeling the real issue has more to do with
    her pride in little fishy. I can't believe that that fish has built up that much
    equity anyway; the company started in 2003 or so, and by the time I got there
    they'd adopted the ugly fish for some materials, but the top of their website
    still had an entirely different fish and typeface combo. Some of our shipping
    pouches had that old fish combo until at least a month or so ago. I can hardly
    believe that most of our customers identify with the fish in any meaningful way
    (evidence being that very few people buy any of our branded merchandise), or wouldn't
    recognize the company if it adopted another fish. But I don't have any sort of
    marketing or branding credentials, so any discussion would end up: \"well I think
    this\" \"Well I think you're wrong,\" and she, being the boss, would end the conversation,
    and I, being rather non-confrontational, would drop the issue, and then at some
    point, after having kept all my opinions bottled up inside, would become frustrated
    and start ranting in a somewhat obscure forum on a typography website that I had
    come across while trying to find legitimate excuse for why we should not use the
    font \"AddCityBoy\" to represent our company, but that I had also come across
    in the past, and had bookmarked in my del.icio.us links,  and had enjoyed reading
    very much, expanding my meager knowledge of typography, and in which I would be
    comforted by the good citizens (netizens?), by their reassuring disapproval of
    that which had caused my frustrations. \r\n\r\nReally, I'm hoping to be doing
    some graduate studies in in the Fall, so I just have to hold out until then. I
    don't see them changing the logo any time soon, but perhaps if they can stay afloat
    despite the logo, someday they will become big enough to hire a consultant who
    will have the authority to tell them how ugly their logo is. Of course, by that
    time it probably will have gained some equity, but I'll be long gone by then,
    so won't have to worry about it!  \r\n\r\n@dunk I like to think that my Fine Arts
    extends to a modest degree toward illustration, but I acknowledge my shortcoming
    as a designer. That said, I think (and I think she agrees) my graphics are much
    nicer than those of my boss. And getting better all the time! Slowly, but surely..."
  created: '2008-01-08 08:08:40'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"evidence being that very few people buy any of our branded merchandise\"\r\n\r\nWell,
    that's certainly some interesting data that helps make your case."
  created: '2008-01-08 14:52:30'
- author:
    name: LogoMotives
    picture: 110231
  body: "adnix - Thanks for the mention of my book (Your post just showed up in a
    Google search!) - J.\r\n\r\nJeff Fisher | Engineer of Creative Identity | <a href=http://www.jfisherlogomotives.com>Jeff
    Fisher LogoMotives</url>"
  created: '2008-02-17 03:49:18'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: "Nice fish, mean fish\r\nRed fish, green fish\r\n\r\nI would not put it on
    a box \r\nI would not change it to a fox\r\nI would not put it on a shirt\r\nI
    would cover it with dirt\r\n\r\n\r\nThat said - you did a nice job at polishing
    a petrified turd. \r\n\r\n\r\nOne suggestion is that you do some user testing
    - but some students lunch, show them the fish and ask them to write adjectives
    they think of.   Or something like that.  Get the owners to sign off on it first
    - it might show them the light.\r\n\r\nGood luck!"
  created: '2008-02-17 04:46:01'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Nice to see you back on typophile Beth!
  created: '2008-02-17 05:26:53'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: "Heh, thanks Eben.  It's really good to be back - there are so many great
    designers here, it's like being in art school.  (And it's more fun than online
    scrabble.)\r\n\r\n---\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/eeblet/\r\nLive in the Bay
    Area?  Coming soon: screamsorbet.com"
  created: '2008-02-17 05:28:02'
- author:
    name: logosam
    picture: 114247
  body: "I think this is your best chance. Update the mark with a sports/internet/mountainbike
    face like beast machines, or gunship, or cyborg 45. keep the fish \u2013 which
    is good and does have some equity, and put a mountain bike tire behind it to make
    it topical.\r\nIt's just an update and no-one's ego has to get bruised.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/greenfishlogo_6685.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-17 05:48:06'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>My boss is the wife of the company founder.</em>\r\n\r\nYou will never
    get this person to change her mind... Start looking for a new job. You will be
    much happier afterwards, believe me.\r\n\r\n[EDIT] <em>She drew the logo and is
    very possessive of it.</em>\r\n\r\nThat alone should tell you something... Choose
    your battles."
  created: '2008-02-17 09:39:05'
date: '2008-01-03 15:16:25'
title: I hate this logo

---
