---
author:
  name: David K
  picture: 113907
body: "Hello, \r\nI'm a student in Switzerland and I do a theorical work about law
  and typefaces.\r\nI'm looking for precises exemples of illegal use of Typeface.
  If you know something about Linotype coming in some Company with a bill for 200
  unpaid licences for Helvetica. If you have any pictures, or you know Graphic Designer
  or Company who don't pay any licences...\r\n\r\nEverything is welcome\r\n\r\nDon't
  feel shy about denunciation!\r\n______________________________________________________\r\n\r\nThanks/
  \r\nDavid K"
comments:
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: "three that come to mind:\r\n\r\n\u2022 Starbucks' use of P22's Cezanne ...
    Starbucks used it extensively without a proper license.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/1971\r\n\r\n\u2022
    There are a lot of type designers who have had their fonts used improperly by
    people trying to make a buck in the scrapbooking industry. (i guess it's an industry
    now) :)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/3371\r\n\r\n\u2022 House Industries
    has a fairly well-defined license for its silhouettes. Andy Cruz said at an AIGA
    stop that House has had plenty of big companies who have used the silhouettes
    beyond the scope of the license. (these aren't typefaces, of course)\r\n\r\nI'm
    sure you could look at Luc's Legal page, and get a good look at plenty more.\r\n\r\nhttp://cg.scs.carleton.ca/~luc/legal.html"
  created: '2008-01-04 00:03:42'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: The most famous I'm aware is <a href=http://www.typophile.com/node/17362>UPS
    and Dax/Meta</a>.
  created: '2008-01-04 03:25:43'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Luc's page is full of misleading half-truths and the occasional outright
    lie. Makes it hard to put much stock in the accuracy of his other information,
    for those occasions when I don't have first-hand knowledge of it.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-01-04 05:04:34'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Hi Thomas:\r\n\r\nAnything specific about Lucs page that you find particularly
    dubious? I am assuming about Adobe...\r\n\r\nMikey :-)"
  created: '2008-01-04 06:08:09'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<strong>\"Luc\u2019s page is full of misleading half-truths and the occasional
    outright lie\"</strong> (Thomas Phinney)\r\n\r\nFor more information about Mr.
    Phinney's motivation read:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/osteuropa1.pdf,
    page 4"
  created: '2008-01-04 08:38:34'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "@David - I daresay there are tons of violations out there :-)) Lots of obvious
    ones, like companies having a standard license and using it on 1000 computers,
    or embedding it into some hardware or software. But they will be difficult to
    find, as these companies naturally would never admit such a thing :-)\r\n\r\nA
    real tough one is using old CAD software - it needs a proprietary font format,
    and automatically transforms standard fonts into this  format. Not allowed, according
    to most of the font licenses I know, although most foundries tolerate it, AFAIK
    :-)\r\n\r\nAnd then there was Windows NT 3.5, which automatically transformed
    PostScript fonts into TrueType fonts - it was not there anymore in Windows NT
    4.0, and I do believe I know why - license violation! :-)\r\n\r\nLet's see, there
    are also lots of people who change/manipulate/customize free fonts because they
    believe the software, being \"free\", is also OpenSource, thereby of course violating
    the copyright of the designer/creator. I usually get raised eyebrows and horrified
    faces when I point this out to friends who show me the \"new version\" they just
    did, hihi....\r\n\r\nThen there are the not so obvious violations - like copying
    a typeface and renaming it. This sometimes is not strictly illegal, but I usually
    find it ethically unacceptable (there are exceptions). Arial from Monotype is
    a nice example, or Humanist from Bitstream. Not funny.\r\n\r\nOh, and Uli is our
    self-appointed knight in shining armor, protecting us all from shady people :-)
    He does sometimes hit the nail on the head(!), some things on his website are
    just half-truths, and some things are just plain wrong - although I daresay not
    on purpose, but simply because of lack of understanding. It is always funny to
    read his stuff, though, if you understand German! He unfortunately sometimes takes
    his opinion as proof, and tends to insult people without having said proof. He
    will then tell you stuff in Latin, and will finally get the wall of silence on
    him. :-)\r\n\r\n*gives Uli a nudge* Hey, pal, it is not polite to accuse someone,
    then delivering the accusation in a language not officially spoken in this forum.
    Thomas does not speak German, and David might also not speak German. So you might
    want to translate it, otherwise I think it is highly rotten to post something
    ABOUT what you think to be the motivation of Thomas without even giving him the
    chance to respond. Stop that. I read it, and I daresay that some of the things
    are true (I am equally quite sure that some of them are not!), but since this
    is an English speaking forum, it is just not fair towards the others!!"
  created: '2008-01-04 14:46:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "[[http://www.theregister.co.uk/2006/06/27/unlicensed_software_shocker/|This
    was in the news]] a bit over a year ago.\r\n\r\n[[http://directory.serifmagazine.com/Ethics_and_Law/Copyright/judgement.php4|This
    was apparently a landmark case]] establishing that you can't just copy and re-sell
    fonts in the US. \r\n"
  created: '2008-01-04 15:40:19'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">And then there was Windows NT 3.5, which automatically transformed PostScript
    fonts into TrueType fonts - it was not there anymore in Windows NT 4.0, and I
    do believe I know why - license violation! :-)\r\n\r\nPike, I didn't picture you
    as part of the conspiracy theory crowd - oh well ;-). The convertor was actually
    dropped when MS licensed the ATM rasterizer from Adobe. The converter was implemented
    in NT with support of the font community - that's why it wouldn't convert an Emigre
    font, and set all converted fonts to \"no embedding\". "
  created: '2008-01-04 21:07:18'
- author:
    name: David K
    picture: 113907
  body: "Thanks for all your Answers.\r\n\r\n\r\nDoes anyone know somethng about company
    who went to court for typeface quarrel?\r\nI'd like to find some documents or
    more details about that kind of trouble.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-14 14:04:59'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Actually, it is not only content relating to Adobe that I have found false
    or misleading statements - although for me it is mostly in that area, because
    that's where I have the most personal knowledge.\r\n\r\nAs for the fact that I
    work at Adobe, that's a matter of public record. But my interest in truth outweighs
    my personal feelings - otherwise I wouldn't have gone on the record vociferously
    saying that the Bush National Guard memos seemed to be forgeries, while simultaneously
    donating money to President Bush's opponents.\r\n\r\nFor that matter, just because
    somebody has a personal stake in something does not necessarily mean that their
    statements are untrue. Are both parties always lying in every divorce?\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-01-14 21:43:50'
- author:
    name: Club-21
  body: David K, Five years ago I was commissioned to work on an advertising campaign
    by a very well known European Advertising agency. After the meeting the art director
    mentioned they'd been using my fonts on various campaigns - one of which was for
    a well known international Charity. He then proceeded to give me a copy of the
    printed corporate identity manual for the campaign. In the back of the manual
    was a factory produced CD which contained copies of my fonts and also fonts owned
    by a corporate type foundry. Of course I was gob-smacked - the agency had neither
    permission or had paid for the rights to distribute my data in such a way - as
    far as i was aware they had paid for just a standard 5 user license. As the commission
    they had just agreed to give me was paid very generously and the Charity I mention
    was a worthwhile cause I decided to let it go. It just shows the lack of awareness
    there is in the industry regarding licensing.
  created: '2008-01-16 21:56:15'
- author:
    name: Todly
    picture: 114113
  body: "If I could inject a bit of ignorance here and hopefully get some feedback,
    that would be wonderful.  This is the closest post I have found to my topic, and
    I hope it might add an interesting perspective for David K.\r\n\r\nI'm a small-scale
    graphic designer (T-shirts, note cards, greeting cards) and I've been searching
    everywhere for the legality of my using different fonts in my designs.  I want
    to do the right thing and respect other designers' intellectual property, but
    I can't seem to find much info out there.  Everyone mostly seems to discuss the
    issues surrounding copying/altering/reselling font files, none of which (I think)
    I'm doing.\r\n\r\nI \"purchased\" and downloaded a \"4200 FREE FONTS\" package
    a couple of months ago.  There were no text/licensing files with the TTF files
    (as I've seen before with other fonts I've looked at), but the header info in
    many of the files reads \"(c)...All rights reserved...\".  I'm assuming I need
    to search for the creator of the fonts to obtain their permission to use the fonts
    in my work.  If this is indeed the case, would I expect to pay them a one-time
    fee?  Or royalties on any sales I make of products displaying their font?  Is
    there any standard practice?\r\n\r\nI've asked many professionals (including lawyers
    and designers) these questions and, interestingly enough, MOST have said, \"Don't
    worry about it - you should be fine\".  I'm not comfortable with that answer...\r\n\r\nAny
    feedback / information would be greatly appreciated.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nTod\r\n____________________________________________________________________________\r\n\"In
    all things of nature, there is something of the marvelous.\" Aristotle"
  created: '2008-01-29 18:24:45'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I think you are safe in following the suggestions of those you've asked previously.
    Those massive bundles don't usually have EULAs beyond what you've mentioned because
    they really are free (not literally) to use however you wish. In addition, most
    foundries would not expect additional fees to use their fonts on your shirts.
    If the bundle didn't have a EULA stipulating anything additional then I say go
    for it. \r\n\r\nWho agrees?"
  created: '2008-01-29 18:39:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I agree. It's a question we get all the time, as most EULAs don't address
    the issue, because after all the point of a font has always been to facilitate
    printing. \r\n\r\nSo my advice would be that unless the EULA prohibits a specific
    use (and some EULAs, eg some boutique symbol font EULAs, do have restrictions
    around shirts) you're free to use the font in a print project. "
  created: '2008-01-29 18:47:26'
- author:
    name: Robert Trogman
    picture: 111573
  body: I went to court over a font copying and won. The verdict was based on the
    use of the name that was a marketing tool.
  created: '2008-03-04 00:16:17'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: When was this case, Robert? Was it a digital font? Can you name it?
  created: '2008-03-04 01:02:38'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "i'm a bit confused here. please explain to me if this scenario is acceptable
    or not:\r\n\r\n1) designer or designer's company buys font X license for their
    computer.\r\n2) designer is hired to develop logo for corporate client.\r\n3)
    designer tries various ideas.\r\n4) client chooses logo which uses characters
    from font X, converted to outlines.\r\n5) logo is put into widespread usage.\r\n6)
    font X software remains on designer's computer.\r\n\r\nwhat am i missing here
    ? is further permission required ? this is a sincere question. i've started another
    thread on the future of licensing, but here i'm asking for the specific nature
    of the violations cited above."
  created: '2008-03-07 14:07:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There is a difference between creating outlines for a few characters in a
    logo and giving the client the working software for the font to use in running
    text as a corporate typeface. I don't know exactly what you mean but typically
    a logo based on an existing typeface is manipulated and customized to work better
    as a logo to begin with. This differs from the UPS font which was a working typeface.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-07 14:19:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">if this scenario is acceptable or not:\r\n\r\nSome EULAs (in particular
    some EULAS associated with symbol fonts - HouseInd maybe?) do not allow a symbol
    to be the primary element in a logo under their standard terms. \r\n"
  created: '2008-03-10 03:20:15'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: P22 (and all subsidiaries), Emigre, ...all do not allow symbols to be used
    in logos or other products where the glyphs are the key elements.
  created: '2008-03-10 19:26:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Illegaluse_5479.png]\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-10 19:55:56'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Roughing the EULA... [img:sites/default/files/old-images/thumbnail_6333.jpg]
  created: '2008-03-10 23:02:39'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: Just make sure you have an invoice :-) That normally covers the "normal" range.
  created: '2008-03-22 18:38:37'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: "David K\r\nThere are undoubtedly many companies and firms which do not pay
    for all of the typefaces they purchase, preferring intead to simply let all of
    the users on their networks use them disregarding the EULA rules. If you do a
    bit of research you will find that Luc Devroye's comments, while very pointed,
    are accurate. One thing is clear. Luc and Thomas Phinney of Adobe do not agree
    about a lot of things. Personally I am on Luc's side. I dislike large corporations
    controlling and attempting to dominate the market as Adobe has done. While capitalism
    is supposed to be about competition it also is about how much one corporation
    can do to eliminate the competition, regardless of the ethics or morals involved.
    For more on what a corporation is or does I would refer you to the recently published
    book by Robert B. Reich, \"Supercapitalism: The Transformation of Business, Democracy,
    and Everyday Life.\""
  created: '2008-03-24 23:56:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Jordy, if you are talking about type, I think you are way off base. \r\n\r\nWhen
    Adobe was keeping its PostScript format secret, in the 80's, you'd have had an
    argument. But now Adobe seems to be following a strategy of encouraging type design
    outside its company, particularly in the Open Type formats that its graphics programs
    are good at using. Ok, it's self interest, but it looks like pretty enlightened
    self-interest to me--and not monopolistic as far as fonts go. \r\n\r\nAnd Thomas
    Phinney in particular has been very generous with his time both on Typophile and
    at conferences, explaining the technical side of type to anyone who is interested.
    And they publish a lot of technical type information, available for free download.
    All this information helps other designers compete with Adobe's type faces. "
  created: '2008-03-25 00:56:07'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Jordy,\r\n\r\nLuc and I do simply disagree on many things which are more
    matters of opinion. This doesn't bother me so much. I'm perfectly capable of having
    a spirited disagreement with somebody and still respecting and liking them, as
    long as they are honest and not malicious.\r\n\r\n> If you do a bit of research
    you will find that Luc Devroye\u2019s comments, while very pointed, are accurate.\r\n\r\nI
    guess we've researched different issues, or in different ways. But I've said my
    piece on this before.\r\n\r\nMy biggest issue with him is that Luc has a history
    of posting links to pirated fonts, including pirated fonts from the company I
    work for, and not willingly removing them when politely asked. That's made me
    pretty grumpy with him.\r\n\r\nBut on the bigger picture....\r\n\r\nYou're free
    to \"dislike large corporations controlling and attempting to dominate the market
    as Adobe has done.\" But you must be talking about a market other than type. Which
    company acquired ITC and then Linotype? What's the biggest font retailer? (Hint:
    answers to both are \"not Adobe.\") If you're talking type, Adobe has neither
    attempted nor succeeded at controlling/dominating the market.\r\n\r\nNow, it's
    true that despite reduced market share over the years, Adobe remains highly *influential*
    in the type market. How? By having software that uses fonts in sophisticated ways,
    providing font development source code and tools at no charge, inventing or co-inventing
    key standards, giving font development training and info to our nominal \"competitors\"
    (both privately and via conferences and seminars), and helping educate the next
    generation of type designers and font developers at Reading (and this year at
    KABK as well).\r\n\r\nI've lost track of the number of times I've publicly posted
    font feature source code and presentations about font development practices, or
    updated my essay on font formats....\r\n\r\nFrankly, I find it hard to imagine
    a private company being more open and collegial in how it influenced the font
    marketplace.\r\n\r\nPerhaps you just don't like Adobe's market position for other
    software besides fonts?\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-04-12 02:48:05'
- author:
    name: Dr jack
    picture: 115796
  body: "Todly said\r\nI \u201Cpurchased\u201D and downloaded a \u201C4200 FREE FONTS\u201D
    package a couple of months ago. There were no text/licensing files with the TTF
    files (as I\u2019ve seen before with other fonts I\u2019ve looked at), but the
    header info in many of the files reads \u201C(c)...All rights reserved...\u201D.\r\n\r\n--------------------------------------\r\n\r\nTodly,
    I've had clients years ago who asked for a specific font and I sometimes would
    steer them to a different font on one of those cheap and nasty font compilation
    CD's because of the ease of use. One day I noticed a standard License required
    Commercial font on one of those cheap font CD's. The Font's name had been changed,
    and a friend of mine had Fontographer and checked, and yes, all copyright legals
    and the creator's details had been removed. In the early days I thought cheap
    Font CD's were heaven sent. In fact, most are stolen and only cheap and nasty
    copies.\r\n\r\nIf you keep abreast of the most commonly used Commercial Fonts,
    you'll soon see a rip-off on those Compilation Font CD's.\r\n\r\nAnd in the old
    days, when they offered you x amount of Fonts on a CD, then they would give you
    only the Font Files. Then some of these nasty Font companies would supply these
    disks embedded with a type program 'browsers'. Some were even early developed
    Adware/Spyware.  "
  created: '2008-09-06 16:47:01'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Perhaps you just don\u2019t like Adobe\u2019s market position for other
    software besides fonts?\"\r\n\r\nThere's probably a lot of truth in that. Likely
    for both Adobe and MS's type divisions. Nice departments stuck inside rather loathed
    corporations. ;o)"
  created: '2008-09-06 17:35:26'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Nah, Adobe doesn't inspire the same sort of generalized loathing that Microsoft
    does. I think for a lot of people, that would be the hardest aspect of working
    in the MS type group, receiving sort of generic abuse that has nothing to do with
    you, your work, or your immediate colleagues. I'm really amazed by the sort of
    permanent good humor with which Si deals with it.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-09-06 20:43:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Si is a joy and thick-skinned as well. I think he fends off the poorly directed
    criticism with the knowledge that he is a good and honest human being and can
    go home to his lovely little family with a free conscience and joy in his heart.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-07 23:50:05'
date: '2008-01-03 23:36:27'
node_type: forum
title: ILLEGAL USE OF TYPEFACE!

---
