---
author:
  name: EricK
body: "Hey all!\r\nJust wondering if anyone can help me identify this typeface, the
  closest typeface I can find is [Removed by Moderator]. I realise this sample is
  somewhat customised, but it in addition to the angled \"A\", it doesn't really have
  the same impact. Anyone got any ideas?\r\nCheers!\r\n[e]\r\n\r\n[Note from Moderator:
  The font you mentioned is not the original and is a derivative of the original.
  Typophile does not support the use of derivative fonts.]"
comments:
- author:
    name: poms
  body: Avantgarde with alternate "A"
  created: '2008-01-07 12:11:44'
- author:
    name: Marten Fischer
    picture: 112043
  body: <a href="http://www.fontshop.com/search/?q=Avant+Garde+Gothic">Avant Garde
    Gothic with Alternates</a>
  created: '2008-01-07 12:11:54'
- author:
    name: Marten Fischer
    picture: 112043
  body: '...somethings wrong with my link. I''ll give it <a href="http://www.fontshop.com/search/?q=Avant+Garde+Gothic&x=0&y=0">another
    try</a>.'
  created: '2008-01-07 12:14:37'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: '[Removed by Moderator] is a clone of Avant Garde.'
  created: '2008-01-07 13:33:08'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Bob, why would you share information about an illegal clone?
  created: '2008-01-07 16:21:12'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>Bob, why would you share information about an illegal clone?</cite>\r\n\r\nTo
    know your enemy? Seriously, to be able to separate the real stuff from the chaff.
    Eric had mentioned it \u2026"
  created: '2008-01-07 16:51:15'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Tiff, to be fair to Bob, the illegal clone is identified in the original post.
    Maybe you need to remove it there as well.
  created: '2008-01-07 17:03:16'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I've been told I need to slow down and read s-l-o-w-e-r. Sorry, Bob. I see
    that you weren't the one to mention it first. \r\n\r\nFlorian, good point."
  created: '2008-01-07 17:03:52'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Yep. My bad. Corrected and apologized for.
  created: '2008-01-07 17:06:40'
- author:
    name: EricK
  body: "Thanks guys, apologies for mentioning a cloned typeface and thus provoking
    an argument! It was incredibly foolish of me!\r\nThanks again!\r\n[e] "
  created: '2008-01-08 11:06:26'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>I\u2019ve been told I need to slow down and read s-l-o-w-e-r. Sorry,
    Bob. I see that you weren\u2019t the one to mention it first.</em> \r\n\r\nTiffany,
    I've been in your position and know what it's like, I know how these things happen
    and how easy it is to make errors. But I have complete faith in you as a moderator
    (you already knew that) so take heart. It isn't easy operating in the red zone.\r\n\r\n\"We
    choose to do these things not because they are easy, but because they are hard.\"
    -- John F. Kennedy\r\n\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-09 12:42:27'
- author:
    name: bowfinpw
    picture: 110174
  body: "While I completely agree with the principle of not supporting 'derivative
    fonts' (a.k.a.clones), it seems there is a huge gray area here when it comes to
    revivals/digitizations of old typefaces. Many, if not most, of us do not have
    the experience, or type libraries, to know when something we see being used is
    original, let alone whether it is a revival, or a derivative. I suppose if we
    knew when they were originally designed we could guess, but in most cases that
    would be it -- just a guess. For example, the many fonts created by David Rakowski,
    Dieter Steffmann, or Dave Nalle of Scriptorium, that are taken from old specimen
    books. Often these guys changed the names, but as far as I know their digitizations
    were original. Even 'grayer' are the cases with the Brendel, Opti and FontBank
    collections, even though they are often the only sources we know of for digital
    versions of certain type families, or certain weights of familiar families (by
    other commercial names).  More than once legitimate foundries have issued 'new'
    fonts, based on old work that had already been digitized by 'amateurs'. That shouldn't
    make the amateur version 'derivative'. We all know many examples of legitimate
    foundries with virtually identical copies of popular styles, especially from the
    pre-digital era. Heck, it was standard practice for metal type foundries to offer
    their own versions of popular typefaces, just changing the name, and maybe one
    or two minor design details.\r\n\r\nAs IDers, often the best we can do is name
    whatever we know that looks like the sample that is posted for ID, regardless
    of its 'pedigree'. The fact is that the people who created many of those samples
    used the fonts without knowing (or caring) where they came from originally. I
    suspect almost all of us have bought 'bargain' font collections more than once,
    or got them bundled with other software, like Corel products. Not every sample
    we have to ID comes from a squeaky clean design agency that has nothing but licensed
    fonts in their font libraries.\r\n\r\nI guess the bottom line of my almost-rant
    is that we just do our best. If the font we know is 'suspect' for some reason,
    then the moderators, or the folks who know more type history, can set us straight,
    as Tiffany did this time. I didn't intend this post as a criticism of Tiffany,
    because I think she did just right, but I wanted to make sure that IDers don't
    feel they need to apologize if they don't know the 'real' font name.\r\n\r\n-
    Mike Yanega"
  created: '2008-01-09 15:36:00'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: ". . . And I'd like to add that if all that exists is a questionable version
    it is ok to post the name. That said, what I am opposed to, as well as other moderators,
    is posting links to questionable sites. The reason being:\r\n\r\n(A) I (we) don't
    want Typophile to become a place people can find links to such sites and \r\n(B)
    9 times out of 10 even if the font in question really is the only one available
    chances are there are other fonts on those sites which are obvious derivatives,
    now loop back to reason (A).\r\n\r\nI'm sure I come across as a dogmatic bore
    when it comes to this, but Typophile is not the place to find questionable fonts
    and I really hope it stays that way."
  created: '2008-01-09 16:32:26'
- author:
    name: bowfinpw
    picture: 110174
  body: "Tiffany, this seems like a principle that will limit us to foundry vendor
    sites. \r\n\r\nWe have used links to sites as the way of 'proving' that the ID
    is valid by letting other people see and judge it for themselves. What are we
    supposed to do when the font in question isn't sold at an 'approved' site? We
    don't all have the fonts to be able to make a demo sample, and they don't all
    have test drives.\r\n\r\nI would never call you 'a dogmatic bore', but I think
    this is a tough restriction, if it's enforced. There are a lot of useful free
    fonts out there, and designers often resort to them for budget reasons, and many
    are distributed at sites that MAY also have contraband fonts in their mix (not
    necessarily with the site owners knowledge). \r\n\r\nI think people already know
    about such sites, so it's up to us to educate them about the ethics of piracy
    and cloning, as well as the drop off in quality. Hopefully we can separate the
    wheat from the chaff when it comes to these, but I hope we can do more than be
    a vendor referral service.\r\n\r\n- Mike Yanega"
  created: '2008-01-09 17:15:01'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Mike,\r\nyou are addressing Tiffany, so I emphasize that I am not answering
    on Tiffany's behalf or even on behalf of Typophile. I only offer my own views
    on the issue you raise.\r\n\r\n<em>We have used links to sites as the way of \u2019proving\u2019
    that the ID is valid by letting other people see and judge it for themselves.
    What are we supposed to do when the font in question isn\u2019t sold at an \u2019approved\u2019
    site?</em>\r\n\r\nRefer to an equivalent font sold by a legitimate vendor. There
    is no such thing as a Typophile \"approved\" site, vendor or otherwise.\r\n\r\n<em>We
    don\u2019t all have the fonts to be able to make a demo sample, and they don\u2019t
    all have test drives.</em>\r\n\r\nThese are limitations you must learn to live
    with. Is that really such a big deal? Perhaps you're not making it out to be a
    big deal, but nonetheless an issue. Even so, live with it. Like that's hard or
    something?\r\n\r\n<em>... I think this is a tough restriction, if it\u2019s enforced.</em>\r\n\r\nNope.
    If you think that's a tough restriction you're just not realistic about this.\r\n\r\n<em>There
    are a lot of useful free fonts out there, and designers often resort to them for
    budget reasons, and many are distributed at sites that MAY also have contraband
    fonts in their mix (not necessarily with the site owners knowledge).</em>\r\n\r\nWe
    are all better off avoiding such sites. Typophile's policy on this matter was
    recently addressed in the General Posting Guidelines, which I helped Paul Hunt
    rewrite: \"...please do not post links to sites witch [sic] offer unauthorized
    downloads of commercial fonts.\"\r\n\r\nThat is Typophile's policy on the matter.
    End of story. If you find yourself at odds with that policy, I can appreciate
    why, but it's too bad. All things considered you really can't complain.\r\n\r\n<em>As
    IDers, often the best we can do is name whatever we know that looks like the sample
    that is posted for ID, regardless of its \u2019pedigree\u2019.</em>\r\n\r\nWe
    can do better than that. Refer to an equivalent font sold by a legitimate vendor.\r\n\r\n<em>The
    fact is that the people who created many of those samples used the fonts without
    knowing (or caring) where they came from originally.</em>\r\n\r\nIf that is a
    fact you could offer proof to convince people. I think you're guessing there and
    making a broad assumption that ends up being sweeping in its implication.\r\n\r\n<em>I
    suspect almost all of us have bought \u2019bargain\u2019 font collections more
    than once, or got them bundled with other software, like Corel products.</em>\r\n\r\nNope,
    not I. Again, too big an assumption.\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>Not every sample we have to
    ID comes from a squeaky clean design agency that has nothing but licensed fonts
    in their font libraries.</em>\r\n\r\nTrue, but that's part of the challenge of
    the ID board---steering users towards greener pastures. The Kern is Green, dude.\r\n\r\n<em>I
    guess the bottom line of my almost-rant is that we just do our best.</em>\r\n\r\nYup.
    Just play by the rules (established ethics and policy) and do your best. nobody
    is asking you to do more.\r\n\r\n<em>I didn\u2019t intend this post as a criticism
    of Tiffany, because I think she did just right, but I wanted to make sure that
    IDers don\u2019t feel they need to apologize if they don\u2019t know the \u2019real\u2019
    font name.</em>\r\n\r\nIf users and IDers feel they need to apologize for making
    an honest mistake that is entirely up to them. Nobody pressured EricK to apologize.
    He seemed happy enuff in the end and grateful for the advise given.\r\n\r\nThe
    bottom line---Trust everyone, but cut the cards.\r\n\r\nNot hard to do.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-10 08:14:02'
- author:
    name: bowfinpw
    picture: 110174
  body: "James, \r\n\r\nI think the main part of what you said that I have some trouble
    with is the notion that every font can be found at 'a legitimate vendor' site.
    I also don't accept the idea that fonts are 'legitmate' only if they are sold
    at such a site. Amateur designers, and many pros have made fonts which they intended
    for free distribution -- Nick Curtis and Ray Larabie are two well-known examples
    -- and those fonts are used by many people, judging from ID's we have made over
    the years that I have participated here. To say 'The Kern is Green, dude' is a
    somewhat arrogant assumption (i.e that only commercial fonts are kerned, or that
    even if they are, that it was done well), and misses the point about what many
    people are looking for when they choose a font -- it's a design and a style they
    want. You can always adjust the kerning.\r\n\r\nI agree that we want people to
    avoid pirated fonts, and I don't think any of us who are 'regulars' here ever
    knowingly have directed anyone to such fonts, but I think you are interpreting
    the Guidelines in the most restrictive way. I don't think we should need to filter
    through every font on a site to be sure nothing 'questionable' is in their mix.
    Of course if I know of a commercial version, I will point to it, but if I don't
    I will do the best I can to ID the font with what I can find. That's all we have
    ever done here. Has something changed?\r\n\r\n- Mike Yanega"
  created: '2008-01-10 15:44:12'
- author:
    name: Mike F
    picture: 109911
  body: "Mike - Considering the incredible contributions you've made to this forum
    as well as to the type world in general with your Guides, I think that you took
    what came across to me as a verbal slapdown of a wayward child with truly admirable
    restraint.\r\n\r\nI'm going to follow your lead and <em>not</em> make the angry
    post I'd been working up to. I did want to let you know, though, that I am in
    support of every word you've written in this thread thus far.\r\n\r\nActually,
    it sounds like we are still in compliance with the latest Guidelines to post links
    to DaFont and other freebie archives that keep themselves free of commercial fonts
    and clones of same - which is what we've been doing anyway.\r\n\r\nMethinks we
    both suffer from that awful malady, Real World Syndrome."
  created: '2008-01-11 09:32:57'
- author:
    name: bowfinpw
    picture: 110174
  body: "Thanks Mike. I figured i'd have some support on this, since we've been doing
    this for years, and have been as scrupulous as we can to avoid pirated fonts.\r\n\r\n-
    Mike Yanega"
  created: '2008-01-11 16:02:14'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Woah Woah. I didn''t feel like Mike was addressing me specifically. '
  created: '2008-01-11 17:21:18'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I absolutely understand and wonder if we can't find a compromise. Can you
    link to just the exact link that downloads the font itself instead of the site
    itself? I realize most people will be able to work around that if they really
    want to visit the site but on the other hand some only do need the font and so
    having it download directly will help them and keep Typophile a little cleaner.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-11 17:29:06'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: ". . . And yes, linking to sites like DaFont, where they really do try to
    keep their stuff clean, isn't the worst. They are one of the few sites that do
    respond when you tell them they have a live derivative. \r\n\r\nI should add that,
    no, I don't recommend Dafont unless there really are no other options. But that
    is the only site I do recommend when people are looking for freebies. However,
    to risk a little, Mike and Mike do you have good experience with TypeIndex.org?
    They seem clean, but I haven't browsed their pages in a long time."
  created: '2008-01-11 17:31:49'
- author:
    name: bowfinpw
    picture: 110174
  body: "Originally I was addressing you as one of the Moderators, but I may have
    extrapolated it into a bigger issue than it should have been. Would you care to
    put your perspective on the discussion? I think we are friends, and I respect
    your judgement. \r\n\r\n- Mike Yanega"
  created: '2008-01-11 17:34:13'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I agree with you, Mike, that we need to educate people as well. And you have
    done your share of educating. We all have. This site is very near to a model citizen
    of online forums.
  created: '2008-01-11 17:39:43'
- author:
    name: bowfinpw
    picture: 110174
  body: "Oh, cross-posts.  I have rarely linked to freebie sites other than Dafont
    and TypOasis, both of which I consider pretty conscientious. I can't say I am
    familiar with TypeIndex.org, but I'll give it a look.\r\n\r\nI think we have the
    same goals, and I'm never trying to undermine our font designing friends.\r\n\r\n-
    Mike Yanega"
  created: '2008-01-11 17:41:40'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Sorry I'm re-reading the last several posts and answering as thoughts hit
    me. \r\n\r\nI think as long as we continue to support the type industry by not
    posting to derivative fonts we are doing really well. It might also be useful
    to post alternatives in case they don't need an exact. I think you and Stephen
    (and Yves and others) do this already.\r\n\r\nThe experience I've had with many
    sites that supposedly only have legitimate free fonts is pretty bad. Most just
    don't understand. That is why I think we need to keep that to a minimum. But,
    on the other hand, I trust you to know if the font is or isn't really only free
    or if it is ONLY free. Like I said, if we can post directly to the download and
    avoid sending people to the site that would be the most ideal. Too severe?"
  created: '2008-01-11 17:43:53'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Yes, Mike, you don't post to those sites that often and you are very clear
    about it when you do. Your searches are thorough and I'm not trying to undermine
    all the work you and the others, including Mike F, are doing.
  created: '2008-01-11 17:44:59'
- author:
    name: bowfinpw
    picture: 110174
  body: "Thanks for your feedback Tiffany. I'm not sure I understand how to post directly
    to the download, but what I think I will be trying to do is make or copy sample
    images of such fonts. If I do the work I would like to let people see what I've
    found, to agree, or disagree that i have found a match (at at least something
    close). \r\n\r\nBTW, you'll be happy to note that I am now on a brand-new iMac,
    running OS 10.5 (Leopard), so all my past limitations and gripes about the site
    outstripping my computer should remain in the past. (assuming I can post these
    sample images with my new system)\r\n\r\n- Mike Yanega"
  created: '2008-01-11 21:00:32'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "What I mean by posting the download link: <a href=\"http://img.dafont.com/download/?file=vtks_untitled\">Vtks
    Untitled by Douglas Vitkauskas</a>. But, I do see your point about letting people
    see what you've found. \r\n\r\nCongrats on the new machine. :^) I was playing
    around with my sister's iMac. Those are pretty impressive."
  created: '2008-01-11 21:35:49'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Ok. My idea didn't work with that one. Let's just continue to agree that we've
    all been doing our best and continue to do so. :^)
  created: '2008-01-11 21:36:55'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@MikeY: <em>I think the main part of what you said that I have some trouble
    with is the notion that every font can be found at \u2019a legitimate vendor\u2019
    site.</em> \r\n\r\nThat's not what I suggested. I only contend that legititmate
    vendor sites are the sources of preference in certain situations, specifically:<em>\"What
    are we supposed to do when the font in question isn\u2019t sold at an \u2019approved\u2019
    site?\"</em>\r\n\r\nMy answer was \"Refer to an equivalent font sold by a legitimate
    vendor.\" That is not the same thing as saying <em>\"every font can be found at
    \u2019a legitimate vendor\u2019 site.\"</em>\r\n\r\n@MikeY: <em>I also don\u2019t
    accept the idea that fonts are \u2019legitmate\u2019 only if they are sold at
    such a site.</em>\r\n\r\nNeither do I, but a legit vendor site like Myfonts is
    a good place to start. They also happen to distribute all of Larabie's free fonts,
    for example, as well as my free fonts and those by many other makers.\r\n\r\n<em>To
    say \u2019The Kern is Green, dude\u2019 is a somewhat arrogant assumption (i.e
    that only commercial fonts are kerned, or that even if they are, that it was done
    well), and misses the point about what many people are looking for when they choose
    a font \u2014 it\u2019s a design and a style they want. You can always adjust
    the kerning.</em>\r\n\r\nI didn't literally mean kerning. I was talking obliquely,
    making figurative use of speech. Nevermind.\r\n\r\n<em>I don\u2019t think we should
    need to filter through every font on a site to be sure nothing \u2019questionable\u2019
    is in their mix.</em>\r\n\r\nFair enuff. That kind of thing is a time waster.\r\n\r\n@Tiffany:
    <em>Woah Woah. I didn\u2019t feel like Mike was addressing me specifically.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    did because he opened with this:<em>\"Tiffany, this seems like a principle that
    will limit us to foundry vendor sites.\"</em> and in the middle was this bit:
    <em>I would never call you \u2019a dogmatic bore\u2019, but...</em>\r\n\r\nI thought
    it was obvious MikeY was addressing you Tiffany, and the only reason I responded
    (my second post) was because you made no response (for a while).\r\n\r\n<em>...what
    came across to me as a verbal slapdown of a wayward child...</em>\r\n\r\nIt's
    easy to interpret my debating style as a verbal slapdown. I only make liberal
    use of selective quoting for the sake of precision. Any rhetoric or vitriol present
    in my response is to get my point across. I am also fairly candid, a quality some
    people interpret as bluntness.\r\n\r\n@Tiffany: <em>Let\u2019s just continue to
    agree that we\u2019ve all been doing our best and continue to do so.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    agree, and I did make that point too. Do the best you can and nobody is asking
    anyone to do any more.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-11 23:09:36'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "What bothers me a great deal more is how a helpful guy like Mike Yanega can
    post the questions he did in his second post on January 9th, specifically addressing
    one of the moderators by name, and he has to wait two days until that moderator
    responds. Surprising that there are five other moderators and in the intervening
    time not one of them has anything about the matter.\r\n\r\nMike Yanega, I do have
    respect for you as an integral part of the font community. I make free fonts myself
    and have always supported font users on a budet by making free fonts that are
    useful practical designs, quite apart from being well kerned.\r\n\r\nPart of the
    conflict here stems from you and I not knowing each other particularly well. So
    once again I offer my apologies.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-11 23:29:20'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>BTW, you\u2019ll be happy to note that I am now on a brand-new iMac,
    running OS 10.5 (Leopard)</cite> \r\n\r\nI am also about to take that plunge.
    Sometime before my Adobe CS half-semester class starts at the local JC in March,
    I will be getting a spiffy new iMac. \r\n\r\nIt will probably feel like my biggest
    upgrade ever, since one of the memory slots burned out on my 5 year old Dell laptop,
    and I feel almost like I have reverted back to the 486 days, as far as speed goes.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I will be happy to donate this half-ton 21\" Trinitron display to the Goodwill,
    or somesuch.\r\n\r\nI just wish Apple would run a deal now and then, like an extra
    Gb of memory. Their memory is expensive!\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-11 23:34:50'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Regarding the rules and how to interpret them, or in this case \"guidelines\",
    some parting words of advice from Larry Sanger, the co-founder of Wikipedia who
    left the project:\r\n\r\n\"It's the spirit of the rules that count, not the letter.\"\r\n\r\nDespite
    my opening draconian statements the above is much closer to how I think we should
    interpret the guideleines here.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-12 00:07:46'
- author:
    name: Mike F
    picture: 109911
  body: "Tiffany - I spent some time this afternoon checking out TypeIndex.org. While
    it sounds like the intent was great, in practice, the selection is poor, there's
    no way to browse, there are no categories and if you DO find what you're after,
    well ... I hit upon more dead links than valid.\r\n\r\nBesides DaFont, the other
    freebie archive I feel OK with is 1001fonts.com. I've found no commercial or clone
    fonts there and, like DaFont, if a visitor does a Search for a commercial font,
    they are shown links to a commercial source.\r\n\r\nActually, I think that this
    commercial font referral system has been the reason that several large archives
    have purged themselves of commercial/clone downloads. I doubt it was coincidence
    that DaFont's owner cleaned up his site right around the time he began referring
    seekers of commercial fonts to Fonts.com, Linotype and MyFonts."
  created: '2008-01-12 03:00:41'
- author:
    name: bowfinpw
    picture: 110174
  body: "James, \r\n\r\nApology accepted. Thanks for coming back with those added
    clarifications. If we're not careful we'll find ourselves in violent agreement.
    Especially about \"It's the spirit of the rules that count, not the letter.\"\r\n\r\nI
    know it's hard to convey 'tone' in posts, and I think as we get to know each other
    better, what we do will say more than the words, so peace, I think that we've
    beat this horse enough. We've all had our say, and it was good.\r\n\r\n - Mike
    Yanega"
  created: '2008-01-12 06:19:06'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>If we\u2019re not careful we\u2019ll find ourselves in violent agreement.
    Especially about \u201CIt\u2019s the spirit of the rules that count, not the letter.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\n:^)
    Yep. It's a positive way of working out what to do when things get hairy or slippery.
    \ \r\n\r\nPardon me, I'm off-form verbally. \r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-12 07:43:11'
date: '2008-01-07 12:05:06'
files:
- filename: typetest.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/typetest.jpg
node_type: font_id
title: Can anyone help me????

---
