---
author:
  name: ebensorkin
  picture: 109987
body: "I am working on a proposal for a talk and I wanted to get the up to the minute
  info - So, ( and assuming it doesn't violate an NDA!)...\r\n\r\nAre you, or do you
  know of anyone making text faces with contextual alternates to improve letter fit?
  This could be anything from ligatures beyond the call of Unicode, to Sliced off
  serifs, to even deeper changes in letterforms. \r\n\r\nI know many people are and
  have made Display faces that do this - I am asking specifically about Text faces.\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eben, Yes. Froggy has several uses like that using calt. I have alternate
    T Y V Z g y glyphs to avoid holes and collisions.\r\n\r\nHere is a snippet of
    my calt code:\r\n\r\nfeature calt { # Contextual Alternates\r\n\t script latn;
    # Latin\r\n\tsub T' [Y] by T.Lft;\r\n\tsub T' [V] by T.Lft;\r\n\tsub T' [W] by
    T.Lft;\r\n\tsub T' [Z] by T.Lft;\r\n\tsub T' [h] by T.Lft;\r\n\tsub [Y] T' by
    T.Rgt;\r\n\tsub [V] T' by T.Rgt;\r\n\tsub [W] T' by T.Rgt;\r\n\tsub [C] T' by
    T.Rgt;\r\n\tsub [T] Y' by Y.alt;\r\n\tsub [T] V' by V.alt;\r\n\tsub [I] Y' by
    Y.alt;\r\n\tsub [I] V' by V.alt;\r\n\tsub [T.Lft] Y' by Y.alt;\r\n\tsub [T.Lft]
    V' by V.alt;\r\n\tsub [C] Y' by Y.alt;\r\n\tsub [Z] Y' by Y.alt;\r\n\tsub [Z]
    V' by V.alt;\r\n\tsub T.sc' [Y.sc] by T.sc.Lft;\r\n\tsub T.sc' [V.sc] by T.sc.Lft;\r\n\tsub
    T.sc' [W.sc] by T.sc.Lft;\r\n\tsub T.sc' [Z.sc] by T.sc.Lft;\r\n\tsub [Y.sc] T.sc'
    by T.sc.Rgt;\r\n\tsub [V.sc] T.sc' by T.sc.Rgt;\r\n\tsub [W.sc] T.sc' by T.sc.Rgt;\r\n\tsub
    [C.sc] T.sc' by T.sc.Rgt;\r\n\tsub [T.sc] Y.sc' by Y.sc.alt;\r\n\tsub [T.sc] V.sc'
    by V.sc.alt;\r\n\tsub [I.sc] Y.sc' by Y.sc.alt;\r\n\tsub [I.sc] V.sc' by V.sc.alt;\r\n\tsub
    [T.sc.Lft] Y.sc' by Y.sc.alt;\r\n\tsub [T.sc.Lft] V.sc' by V.sc.alt;\r\n\tsub
    [C.sc] Y.sc' by Y.sc.alt;\r\n\tsub [Z.sc] Y.sc' by Y.sc.alt;\r\n\tsub [Z.sc] V.sc'
    by V.sc.alt;\r\n} calt;\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-10 06:20:04'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Hi Eben,\r\nyou are aware of Jos\u2019 first attempt to text faces, <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/40440\">Calluna</a>.\r\nIn
    <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/40439\">this thread </a>, Karsten mentioned
    he\u2019s using contextual alternates, though he doesn\u2019t say which font.
    <a href=\"http://www.kltf.de/kltf_grotext.htm\">Grotext</a> has contextual alternates:
    it will use an \u2018f\u2019 with a longer ear if context allows.\r\nF"
  created: '2008-01-10 09:13:16'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Eben, there are many typefaces that do this to some small extent, but I don't
    think there are many that do so in a thorough, consistent manner, as i think you're
    wanting to find. What i think the best approach to implementing contextual alternates
    in this manner is to fix as many fit problems as possible before you begin fixing
    problems using kerning. so the fitting priorities would be to 1) ensure good fitting
    of default letterforms to avoid as many spacing problems as possible 2) once fitting
    is set, provide contextual alternates in as many places as possible to resolve
    fitting problems 3) as a final resort, use kerning to solve the most difficult
    problems. This is not to say that kerning is undesirable and may actually be a
    better option than 2 in many cases. in the most difficult cases 1, 2, & 3 might
    need to be employed. of course i haven't had a chance to put this to the test
    in my current work yet, but i intend to experiment with this as much as time will
    allow for as i'm developing my typeface project this year.
  created: '2008-01-10 10:38:44'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Chris, you could save yourself some typing. Instead of...\r\n\r\nsub T\u2019
    [Y] by T.Lft;\r\nsub T\u2019 [V] by T.Lft;\r\nsub T\u2019 [W] by T.Lft;\r\nsub
    T\u2019 [Z] by T.Lft;\r\nsub T\u2019 [h] by T.Lft;\r\n\r\n...you can do this:\r\n\r\nsub
    T' [Y V W Z h] by T.Lft;\r\n\r\nPutting glyphs in brackets means, in effect, \"any
    one of these glyphs\". So, the brackets are unnecessary if there is only one glyph
    between them."
  created: '2008-01-10 14:32:20'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Are you, or do you know of anyone making text faces with contextual alternates
    to improve letter fit? This could be anything from ligatures beyond the call of
    Unicode, to Sliced off serifs, to even deeper changes in letterforms.</em>\r\n\r\nOne
    of my proprietary linears will be upgraded \"soon\" (ha-ha, hee-hee, ha), and
    possibly released as a retail font \"complete\" with a calt feature that takes
    care of embarassing collisions like this <strong>i g</strong> smash that took
    place the other day on the album cover meme thread:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/twentyfivecover_4889.gif]\r\n\r\nIn
    this particular font, <strong>a d i l u</strong> need g-insurance---a set of auto-retractable
    curls ;^)\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-10 15:31:52'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks everybody! That's great.\r\n\r\nWhat I wanted to do with this thread
    was see if there were any more Calluna like examples that I might have missed.
    Because this is an emerging thing it would be easy to miss something. \r\n\r\nChris,
    would you be willing to let me show some of Froggy's Alts during a talk?\r\n\r\nPaul,
    I didn't think that I would find anybody doing anything in a 'thorough manner'
    yet. 'Thorough manner' meaning letting nearly all glyphs be contextually shaped.
    That would be too complicated and is too large a cultural shift to have happened
    yet, if indeed it is desirable at all. As far as best courses I am not sure. What
    you are describing makes sense - or perhaps even a less aggressive model where
    you kern before you look for contextual Alts to solve problems. \r\n\r\nLong term
    I hope we will just keep sharing and then it may emerge that certain letters in
    pairs & tripples become common targets for alteration. And maybe later still contextual
    alteration will become integral to our thinking & design rather than being a tacked
    on way of killing pesky spacing problems. Maybe."
  created: '2008-01-10 16:07:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "James, Thanks! \r\n\r\nWould you be willing to let me see a rough version
    of your solution? Would let me show it as well?"
  created: '2008-01-10 16:09:49'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<strong>The curly a-d-i-l-u principle</strong>\r\nHow it works, the curls
    serve to emulate the presence of serifs. In theory they help form better bouma.
    In practice they work very well as a stylistic attraction and a fairly transparent
    structural readability enhancement device.\r\n\r\nThe calt feature will substitute
    straight-stemmed <strong>a-d-i-l-u</strong> for <strong>g</strong>.\r\n\r\n<strong>g</strong>
    is the only exception. For every other combination the curls are useful.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-10 16:18:48'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Would you be willing to let me see a rough version of your solution?
    Would let me show it as well?</em>\r\n\r\nHi Eben :^) Sure. I will have to give
    you a rain check for the moment as I'm buried under a pile of work. I can prepare
    a working version for demonstration purposes. When will you be giving your talk?\r\n\r\nWhat
    are your thoughts on the curly a-d-i-l-u principle?\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-10 16:23:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mark,\r\nTHANKS!!! It sure helps having folks like you around to help me
    learn the easy ways. The disadvantage in just trying to figure stuff out on your
    own is that I am more likely to find the hard way :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-10 16:25:51'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>And maybe later still contextual alteration will become integral to our
    thinking & design rather than being a tacked on way of killing pesky spacing problems.</em>\r\n\r\nhmmm.
    that's not really how i see the issue. i hope i didn't come across that way (although
    i guess i might have inadvertantly). more than a fitting issue, i see the use
    of contextual alternates as a possible solution to problems in notan/bouma formation.\r\non
    another note, perhaps you're right that my sugguestions above were overagressive. "
  created: '2008-01-10 16:27:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Chris, would you be willing to let me show some of Froggy\u2019s Alts during
    a talk?\"\r\n\r\nEben,\r\nThat probably can be arranged :-) \r\nWhere are you
    giving your talk? You can email me offline with the details.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-10 16:28:58'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>And maybe later still contextual alteration will become integral to our
    thinking & design rather than being a tacked on way of killing pesky spacing problems.
    Maybe.</em>\r\n\r\nI am already onto it. Tomorrow's graphic design and fonts will
    need to be flexible, and more significantly---adaptable, because the rate of change
    will accelerate. If you read Edward DeBono's books such as Thinking for the New
    Millenium, he is onto a very real thing in saying \"solutions that worked yesterday
    or today might not work tomorrow\" and the answer is to \"design a way forward\".\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-10 16:35:27'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> hmmm. that\u2019s not really how i see the issue. </cite>\r\n\r\nI
    didn't mean to imply that you see the issue as a 'pesky problem'. If that's the
    impression that you or anyone else had I apologize for putting words in your mouth.\r\n\r\nMy
    intent was to rhetorically contrast what I think we have to begin with - which
    is looking at the problem from the position we occupy now in which contextual
    shapes are a new idea/opportunity that we are starting to wrap our heads around.
    A position in which contextual shapes is a question that is likely to be considered
    near the end of a font's development when we find we could alter our basic shape
    to solve a problem, or kern or both. Or we could make an Alt. And maybe Kern it
    if it's used more than once. \r\n\r\nThis would be in contrast with a point that
    we might occupy later where practical experience allows us to integrate what we
    have learned much earlier on in new fonts design. Maybe even at the earliest moments
    where we are sketching out ideas. Once we are doing that we might start to include
    new less obviously problematic letter pairs in our thinking because context has
    become something we take for granted not something exceptional.\r\n\r\n<cite>
    overagressive </cite>\r\n\r\nSorry, I didn't mean to cast judgement there either;
    just to characterize one process as more confident/intgrated in it's approach
    than another. In other words I didn't meant to use aggressive in the pejorative
    sense of the word.\r\n\r\n<cite> i see the use of contextual alternates as a possible
    solution to problems in notan/bouma formation.</cite>\r\nAgreed!\r\n\r\n<cite>
    Edward DeBono </cite>\r\n\r\nI am pretty sure that old solutions will keep working!
    ;-) \r\n\r\nOn the other hand I also think that people gravitate to what feels
    good and it may be that like real wood vs fake the subtle improvements that I
    suspect can be brought about by using contextual shapes in a body of text may
    simply be more pleasant and come to dominate because they are feel better. Maybe.
    Contextual shapes won't ever be the only factor in what feels good in text but
    it seems to me like it could be a factor in time.\r\n\r\nThanks Chris!"
  created: '2008-01-10 17:35:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"And maybe later still contextual alteration will become integral to our
    thinking & design rather than being a tacked on way of killing pesky spacing problems.
    Maybe.\"\r\n\r\n\u201Csolutions that worked yesterday or today might not work
    tomorrow\u201D \r\n\r\nJust think back a few decades to hot metal type. Kerning
    was nearly impossible and side-bearings were one-size-fits-all. Then. phototype
    and later digital came along and these old patterns were broken, albeit oftentimes
    abused. OpenType brings potential for both terrific solutions as well as overuse
    and butchery. After that experimental plunge, the future will be better. If we
    don't push the envelope however, we will be stuck with the limitations of yesterday.
    Old farts like me won't be the ones who make the difference though. Young people
    who have never experienced the limitations impost by type frozen in metal form
    will not be stymied by the appearance of a closed door. They will just walk through
    and do new and better things with type than my generation because they see no
    boundaries and have no fear to overcome.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-10 17:39:55'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: I think that the old fi & fl ligatures were nothing more then contextual alternates.
    With OpenType we have the opportunity to extend it's tradition wisely ... or not
    :-)
  created: '2008-01-10 18:01:05'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I''ve not read the thread (yet), but you might want to look at some of the
    Arabic work of Tom Milo et al.  '
  created: '2008-01-10 18:12:07'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "There are many characters that present problems in certain combinations or
    sizes. I am very fond of serifs on i and j, but they do make bad combinations
    with r, g and others with a protruding top right. Or the double-decker g (whatever
    you want to call it): starts getting blotchy at certain sizes, which is what automatic
    optical sizing could take care of, but also a replacement below a certain size.
    Or insert one or two different g's in the gg combination. The get really noticeable,
    and in English, double-g appears frequently. In German, ch, sch and ck are pronounced
    as one sound, as ck is in English. The c always looks too far from the h or the
    s, and in metal we had ligatures for these (as for tz by the way), also a time-saving
    device. I cannot kern the c for these combinations, as they would look bad in
    all the other languages. \r\n\r\nWhen we designed the typeface for Glasgow in
    1999, I wanted to have different combinations \u2013 kind of ligatures \u2013
    for the different ways certain diphtongs are pronounced in English. Like ea as
    in reading or in leading (the typographic type), ow as in low or cow, o as in
    rose or in lose, etc. Not new signs as in some attempts for more phonetic English,
    but just different ways to show these letters in context.  At the time that would
    have meant calling up a dictionary and then insert glyphs from separate fonts.
    That was deemed to difficult for your ordinary graphic designer, as it would have
    forced him to install many fonts for just the one weight. Today that would be
    quite reasonable to implement."
  created: '2008-01-10 18:26:55'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "BTW. The talk I am planning on giving is in Buffalo at Typecon. It will be
    my framing of the question what Contextual Alternates can do for Text. Right now
    my plan is to give an overview of the question ( probably not soooo different
    from what I have written here ) and then go through what I currently think are
    leading candidates to consider using in a text face using examples from the scribal
    tradition, from lettering, stone carving, and of course what has been done already
    in Opentype. The deadline for submitting materials is coming up so I am gathering
    up what I have. Lida Cardozo has agreed to help me as well which is very exciting.\r\n\r\n<cite>
    Old farts like me won\u2019t be the ones who make the difference though. </cite>\r\n\r\nI
    don't know about that. You have seized the bull by the horns as far as I can see!
    \r\n\r\nBut I do agree that especially when it comes to text it is hard to shift
    from an old reliable system/approach into a new and not fully explored area. And
    when you are making text it's also appropriate worry that what you are doing may
    end up being showy rather helpful. So with text we are culturally hemmed in by
    the apparent success that exists ( which is I think substantial! ), and the real
    danger of the new upsetting the apple cart. Still, obviously I think it's worth
    the attempt."
  created: '2008-01-10 18:29:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Eben, I just shipped a beta version of a new typeface to a client. I can't
    show it yet, but it includes a lot of contextual lookups including many that are
    designed to improve fit. Technically it is a display face, in the sense that it
    is intended to use at larger sizes, but the contextual rules are worked out with
    text in mind. There are contextual substitutions for fit in Latin, Greek and Cyrillic.
    In the Latin and Cyrillic these involve variants with entry serifs removed for
    use after certain letters (f,g,r,x,y); in the Greek, there are variants of pi,
    sigma and tau with shorter horizontal extensions to reduce the white space between
    certain combinations of letters. [This is only scratching the surface of what
    this font does though: the compiled font is almost 2MB and 40% of the font size
    is taken up by the GSUB table. There were times working on the contextual rules
    when I thought my head might explode.]\r\n\r\nSi mentioned Tom Milo's work with
    Arabic. Regarding fit, you might take a look at his illustration of the ruqah
    style on page 125 of the <em>Language Culture Type</em> book, showing five different
    variations of the same words, each of a different horizontal length. Obviously,
    this suggests interesting solutions for justified text.\r\n\r\nTom asked me a
    very similar question to yours at a Unicode conference a couple of years ago,
    wondering if there were any types that applied variation for fit to the Latin
    script. At the time I wasn't aware of any, other than the above mentioned display
    face that I was already working on at that time."
  created: '2008-01-11 07:34:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: The implementation of the 'liga' feature in Jelle Bosma's Cambria typeface
    may qualify for your interest Eben. Although the 'liga' layout feature is used,
    since it emulates the effect of ligatures on ff, fi, etc. combinations, the implementation
    actually uses a variant f and contextual lookups.
  created: '2008-01-11 07:36:23'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "\"On the other hand I also think that people gravitate to what feels good
    and it may be that like real wood vs fake the subtle improvements that I suspect
    can be brought about by using contextual shapes in a body of text may simply be
    more pleasant and come to dominate because they are feel better. Maybe. Contextual
    shapes won\u2019t ever be the only factor in what feels good in text but it seems
    to me like it could be a factor in time.\"\r\n\r\nOr maybe not. People don't gravitate
    to what feels good, but what is simple (to use). Otherwise the figure of documents
    in TNR or Arial would be closer to a figure like 10-20% rather than 90%.\r\nIf
    a font with alternate lookups will ship with some 'standard' software, it will
    prevail. Else the chances are low. (IMHO)\r\n\r\n\"I think that the old fi & fl
    ligatures were nothing more then contextual alternates.\"\r\n\r\nSo do I think."
  created: '2008-01-11 11:46:23'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Eben,\r\nmy sans text face [[http://justanotherfoundry.com/Facit/index.htm|Facit]]
    has a shortened r and f as contextual alternates.\r\nMy [[http://justanotherfoundry.com/Lapture/index.htm|Lapture]]
    has contextual alternates for  v w y with shortened serifs, and a contextual f.
    See page 9 in the PDF for an illustration."
  created: '2008-01-11 13:15:37'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "John, I am really looking foreward to seeing that eventually! Do you think
    there is a chance that it might be available to show by the time Typecon rolls
    around?\r\n\r\nThanks also for the heads up about Cambria. That's a great example
    I think because it doesn't ligate and so the face is more robust in use as a result.
    You seem to feel the same way judging by what you wrote here: \r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/39473
    <cite> I think ligatures are essentially an artifact of metal type, and probably
    not very helpful moving forward.</cite>\r\n\r\nTim, may I use the Lapture example
    in my talk? Would you be willing to make a graphic showing the r & F feature for
    Facit for the same purpose? This stuff is wonderful!\r\n\r\n<cite> Else the chances
    are low. </cite> I suppose I was thinking across a long timescale like the next
    15 years rather than say the next 3 years. But you make a great point. I hope
    that the various powers that be will make calt a default standard for the display
    of glyphs in ther OS' and their Apps.\r\n\r\n<cite> nothing more then contextual
    alternates </cite> Well obviously not technically but in principle yes. Getting
    good letter relationships is what they are for."
  created: '2008-01-11 17:03:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Getting good letter relationships is what they are for.\"\r\n\r\nInitially,
    calt was for non-Latin scripts where typical type techniques were unable to adequately
    display the language. The use for better looking Latin typography was a side benefit
    that was welcomed by many.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-11 18:01:27'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris: <em>Initially, calt was for non-Latin scripts where typical type techniques
    were unable to adequately display the language.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think that
    is the case with the calt feature, Chris, although the statement is true of OpenType
    as a whole, in the sense that Microsoft originally developed the technology with
    a focus on complex scripts. If you look at the calt feature description in the
    OpenType Layout tag registry, you will see that it was registered by Adobe. When
    looking at the early registered tags, i.e. those registered by Adobe and Microsoft
    often prior to any actual implementation in either fonts or software, one can
    usually guess what the initial intent of the tag was based on who registered it.
    Adobe's tags largely cover features that they anticipated needing for fonts in
    their library, and the only non-Latin scripts they were dealing with at that time
    were East Asian. Microsoft's tags were much more focused on non-Latin fonts, but
    they tended, at that time, to define specialised tags for specific script purposes
    rather than generic tags that could be used in variable ways for different scripts
    (hence the dedicated Indic layout features).\r\n\r\nAlso note that the calt feature,
    while on by default, may be turned off by the user, so it is ill-suited to situations
    in which a layout feature is needed 'to adequately display the language'. The
    calt feature is great for discretionary contextual variants, things that enliven
    or improve the display of text, but it shouldn't be relied upon for anything like
    basic text shaping of the sort that makes text decipherable."
  created: '2008-01-11 19:42:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...but it shouldn\u2019t be relied upon for anything like basic text shaping
    of the sort that makes text decipherable.\"\r\n\r\nJohn, Is that because some
    applications don't support it well or because it can't perform the needed functions?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-11 20:01:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I'm not sure that contextual alternates improve fit, as a general principle,
    although they can be used to that effect.\r\n\r\nConsider the comparison with
    kerning.\r\nSure, you can tighten up \"holes\" in many text combinations, but
    not all of them.\r\nSo doing it in some places may draw attention to where it's
    not done, which is counterproductive.\r\nOne has to be very thorough with the
    use of alternates.\r\n\r\nNonetheless, like kerning, contextual alternates enables
    a new kind of fit, or colour, for text.\r\n\r\nAnother issue is the very nature
    of type as standard shapes.\r\nI suspect there is something useful to the perceptual
    process of reading in having character shapes consistent from one instance to
    the next, because if differences are detected, that may prompt a regressive saccade.\r\nNonetheless,
    type design is an agglomeration of deviations from basic forms, little \"cheats\"
    -- making the crossbar slightly higher than centre, vertical strokes thicker than
    horizontal, etc., etc.--to pre-empt the eye's susceptibility to optical illusion.
    So the question is, how much tweaking is too much, and like all good type design,
    it becomes a matter of the designer's discretion, not rule-of-thumb.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nEben,
    your subject is Softmachine's raison d'\xEAtre.\r\nAlthough primarily not conceived
    of as a text face, it does work as such, better than I would have expected.\r\nEven
    colour is considered essential for text setting, and Softmachine achieves this
    -- though not in the usual manner. It is generally considered that even colour
    depends on a balance of variety in internal and external negative and positive
    space; however, Softmachine's consistency is in the uniformity of proximity spacing.
    IMO, this uniformity provides a sufficient matrix for readability. \r\n\r\nI conclude
    that a uniform matrix of some kind is required for reading, a background field
    upon which the variety of informational form can make sense. The eye/mind being
    flexible, it can adapt to different visual premises for typographic text (Hudson's
    Readerability Principle)."
  created: '2008-01-11 20:45:58'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i had forgotten about softmachine! glad you reminded us, nick.
  created: '2008-01-11 21:35:27'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<cite>Tim, may I use the Lapture example in my talk? Would you be willing
    to make a graphic showing the r & F feature for Facit for the same purpose?</cite>\r\n\r\nEben,
    no problem. I will contact you by email in the next couple of days."
  created: '2008-01-11 23:46:37'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Nick, you know how much I like softmachine. But I confess that originally
    I wasn't thinking of softmachine in this case because it isn't doesn't superficially
    look like a 'text' font. Nevertheless I would be extremely pleased to include
    it in my talk. Would you send me the font ( non-commercial use only!) or a PDF
    ( or what you deem best ) to demonstrate the relevant features?
  created: '2008-01-11 23:48:21'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Another issue is the very nature of type as standard shapes.\r\nI suspect
    there is something useful to the perceptual process of reading in having character
    shapes consistent from one instance to the next, because if differences are detected,
    that may prompt a regressive saccade.\r\nNonetheless, type design is an agglomeration
    of deviations from basic forms, little \u201Ccheats\u201D \u2014 making the crossbar
    slightly higher than centre, vertical strokes thicker than horizontal, etc., etc.\u2014to
    pre-empt the eye\u2019s susceptibility to optical illusion. So the question is,
    how much tweaking is too much, and like all good type design, it becomes a matter
    of the designer\u2019s discretion, not rule-of-thumb.</em>\r\n\r\nIs this curls
    retract feature bad then, too much tweaking, too selective? I try to use my designer's
    discretion.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/curltract_5392.gif]\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-12 00:19:10'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Another nifty example. How cool! \r\n\r\nI am curious what the other think
    but I would probably sooner see you pare back the tails than get rid of them altogether.
    I think the tails adds something.\r\n\r\nI would also consider making a shape
    that is even more specific. So in the case of the ag I might pull it back less
    than I would with the dg or ig or lg which seem more similar to my eye. I think
    is if you are going to go to the trouble to do this why not be really sensitive
    and get the balance to be 'just so'. Also, as I see it the benefit of being subtle
    and specific about it is that what you are doing isless likely to be noticed which
    in text is ideal.\r\n\r\nThe other thing is I don't know if I am 100% sold on
    the g somehow. Not generally - it's nice to be sure -  but in combination with
    these other forms. The first turn of the tail of the g attracts my eye a bit too
    much in comparison with the other forms I think.\r\n\r\nWhat do y'all say?\r\n\r\nThanks
    Tim!"
  created: '2008-01-12 01:18:19'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: James are those tail changes in the alternates? I'd say it isn't too much.
    Unless it is automatic. Then it is . . .
  created: '2008-01-12 01:44:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>too much tweaking...?</em>\r\n\r\nJames, I don't know.\r\nI was musing
    theory--quite another thing to see this fully developed, and become acclimatised
    to it.\r\n\r\nIn the past, the solution was to cinch in the waist of the g, as
    in Gill Sans.\r\nContextual alternates change the rules of the game."
  created: '2008-01-12 02:31:57'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@Eben: <em>I think is if you are going to go to the trouble to do this why
    not be really sensitive and get the balance to be \u2019just so\u2019.</em>\r\n\r\nGood
    suggestion, thanks.\r\n\r\n@Eben: <em>Also, as I see it the benefit of being subtle
    and specific about it is that what you are doing is less likely to be noticed
    which in text is ideal.</em>\r\n\r\nI think so too. \"Fly under the reader's radar\",
    or something to that effect.\r\n\r\n@Eben: <em>The first turn of the tail of the
    g attracts my eye a bit too much in comparison with the other forms I think.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    can put that down to my inexperience with text type design.\r\n\r\n@Tiffany: <em>James
    are those tail changes in the alternates? I\u2019d say it isn\u2019t too much.
    Unless it is automatic. Then it is . . .</em>\r\n\r\nThe tails retracting for
    those combinations only is the contextual alternates feature. It can be turned
    on or off to make it automatic or manually applied.\r\n\r\nNick, thanks for the
    theoretical musing. It helps to be philosophical about type design, and what I
    find even more helpful is to live with an innovation for a while to find out how
    it works subliminally.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-12 04:12:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris, re. the 'calt' feature: <em>John, Is that because some applications
    don\u2019t support it well or because it can\u2019t perform the needed functions?</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    'calt' feature is discretionary. It is recommended to be on by default but an
    app with a decent OpenType Layout UI will make it possible for the user to turn
    off the calt feature (as e.g. InDesign does). You do not want to associate any
    layout that is necessary for normal display of a complex script language with
    a feature that can be turned off, because turning off the feature would render
    the text unreadable.\r\n\r\nAside from that, though, most complex scripts require
    a number of different features for language shaping and, typically, interaction
    between those features and the shaping engine. In theory one could use something
    like the 'calt' feature, only permanently active, to perform Arabic script shaping.
    But it is faster (character processing is faster than glyph processing) and more
    reliable to allow the shaping engine to analyse the text and call appropriate
    features such as 'init', 'medi' etc, rather than have the font analyse the glyph
    string and perform contextual lookups."
  created: '2008-01-12 06:01:06'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "<em>...making text faces with contextual alternates to improve letter fit,
    </em>\r\nTo improve 'reading', maybe different, but it could be the same thing
    as you're talking about.\r\n\r\n<em>You do not want to associate any layout that
    is necessary for normal display of a complex script language with a feature that
    can be turned off,</em> [ i f ] <em> turning off the feature would render the
    text unreadable.\"</em>\r\n\"if\" not \"because\"? If it doesn't render the text
    unreadable, then caltify it, being the implication.\r\n\r\nObviously not Eriks,
    but for reading people, this issue is much like kerning. The reading people are
    somewhat used to text type composed without, if they must read it...they read
    it. It'd be nicer if a few dozen kerning pairs were there, but, eh.\r\n\r\nIt's
    when reliable kerning pairs & resolution are taken away from text... a fact borne
    out by the reading people's preference for sans online, that  gulfs have come
    to exist between print and online, serif and sans, and me and...others. \r\n\r\nSo,
    calt if you heart serifs online, pray for 'the next sdk', and remember typography.
    :-)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-01-12 15:07:03'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Erik, \r\n\r\nYou said: <cite> I am very fond of serifs on i and j, but they
    do make bad combinations with r, g and others with a protruding top right.</cite>
    \r\nSo it sounds like in this place at least you could be in favor of seeing contextual
    shapes become more common for text. I will be sure to provide an example of this
    combination in my talk then. Thanks! \r\n\r\nYou also said <cite> Or insert one
    or two different g\u2019s in the gg combination</cite> \r\nI agree in a big way.
    I think subtly different repeating characters is a great use of contextual scripting.
    Looking at ff combinations and then other letters I started to wonder if there
    was any point in considering other letters too. Then I started looking at scribal
    books from the 15th c. and found that I really liked what they were doing with
    doubled letters. Partly what happening of course is natural variation; but in
    the best examples I felt like they were in fact making a deliberately better word
    form with their variation. Most of the time I found that the 2nd letter is slightly
    more exuberant than the 1st.  \r\n\r\n<cite> In German, ch, sch and ck are pronounced
    as one sound, as ck is in English. The c always looks too far from the h or the
    s, and in metal we had ligatures for these (as for tz by the way), also a time-saving
    device. I cannot kern the c for these combinations, as they would look bad in
    all the other languages.</cite>\r\nWould a German local (locl) feature that made
    these relationships space in the manner you describe be a satisfactory solution?\r\n\r\n<cite>
    When we designed the typeface for Glasgow in 1999, I wanted to have different
    combinations \u2013 kind of ligatures \u2013 for the different ways certain diphtongs
    are pronounced in English. </cite>\r\nThis is the bit of your post that delayed
    my response. O wanted to try to get what you meant... I think I do now. Maybe.
    I suspect that for a native reader this sort of thing would be of limited use.
    But for a reader with english as a second or third language it might be quite
    useful. I base this assertion ( maybe foolishly) on not having seen what you have
    in mind. Do you have any images?\r\n\r\nBTW - I sent you a email with some images
    of contextual r+a combinations a little while ago. Did you get it? Should I resend
    it?"
  created: '2008-01-12 17:18:14'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "David, You wrote <cite> To improve \u2019reading\u2019, maybe different,
    but it could be the same thing as you\u2019re talking about. </cite> I am definitely
    interested in reducing reader fatigue with the improved fitting I think is possible.
    I also think that the greater variation will have a positive knock on effect as
    long as it is unobtrusive. \r\n\r\nJohn H, what was the reason for your project's
    contextual variations?"
  created: '2008-01-12 17:25:53'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<em>Would a German local (locl) feature that made these relationships space
    in the manner you describe be a satisfactory solution?</em>\r\nAbsolutely.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I did get your mail, but it'll have to wait until I\u2019ve got all the business
    stuff out of the way.\r\nI\u2019ll try and find my original Glasgow proposal.
    It was only one page of analog sketches, that's why I cannot find it easily."
  created: '2008-01-12 18:33:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Eben: <em>what was the reason for your project\u2019s contextual variations?</em>\r\n\r\nThere
    are several different classes of contextual variations in the new display face,
    but the ones that relate most directly to the topic of this thread either remove
    serifs selectively to avoid ugly combinations, or reduce the size of word-internal
    white spaces, or both. The design is based on an expansion stroke model, with
    some natural variation in the presence/absence of serifs anyway (the ascenders
    in the basic style do not have serifs, for example, following the French rondo
    model), so removing serifs and changing the way strokes start makes more sense
    than merely shortening the serifs."
  created: '2008-01-12 19:33:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Absolutely. </cite> Great! This is obviously addressed to Erik, but
    if others want to answer as well please do. Where would you best go to see the
    a really well made German, ch, sch and ck & tz for German use?\r\n\r\nErik, also
    thanks for letting me know about the email. I had worries my had been relegated
    to a spam folder somewhere. ;-) Thanks again for looking at it whenever you do.
    And thanks for looking for the Glasgow proposal!\r\n\r\n<cite> or reduce the size
    of word-internal white spaces </cite> This sounds almost like a style selection
    but I understand you to mean that it is being done to create better word forms.
    What kinds of context might cause you reduce the internal white space of a letter
    in a word? I am imagining something unlikely such as an o that varies... but maybe
    that's the wrong direction. Maybe it's a CAP L in an all caps setting next to
    an N or M or something like that. In any event, if would expand on this line I
    would of course be most interested!"
  created: '2008-01-13 04:36:07'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>What kinds of context might cause you reduce the internal white space
    of a letter in a word?</em>\r\n\r\nWhere a letter with a long left entry letter
    follows an r the serif is dropped. This does two things: it clears up the ugly
    collision of the serif with the top of the r and it also allows me to position
    the letters closer together, reducing the white space caused by the shape of the
    r.\r\n\r\nA similar thing happens following the \u0433 (ghe) in the Cyrillic portion
    of the font.\r\n\r\nThe Greek implementation is different, because there are no
    serifs, but certain letters create lots of white space when adjacent to each other,
    e.g. the combination \u03C3\u03C4 as in the word \u03A7\u03C1\u03B9\u03C3\u03C4\u03BF\u03C5.
    So I have variants with shorter horizontal bars that are used contextually.\r\n\r\nI
    should mention again that I'm talking here about something that is intended as
    a display face, and it has design features that are more exaggerated than they
    would probably be in a text face, e.g. the serifs are longer.\r\n\r\nBut this
    leads me to wonder if perhaps you are asking your question backwards? Instead
    of asking if anyone is making fonts that use contextual alternates to improve
    letter fit, you could ask if anyone is deliberately breaking the canons of text
    face design, e.g. with regard to serif length, in the knowledge that such alternates
    can be used to adjust the resulting word shaping. In other words, are people deliberately
    setting out to make letter fit more challenging in order to collect stylistic
    dividends in other areas?"
  created: '2008-01-13 06:40:01'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"In other words, are people deliberately setting out to make letter fit
    more challenging in order to collect stylistic dividends in other areas?\"\r\nYou
    mean like Cleartype?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-01-13 20:02:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>You mean like Cleartype?</em>\r\n\r\n:)\r\n\r\nNot what I had in mind:
    the exchangeables in ClearType involve different currencies. But if one is wondering
    how to handle fit without knowing whether subpixel positioning will be active
    in target environments, then all things, including contextual variants, should
    be on the table."
  created: '2008-01-13 22:07:35'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<em>Where would you best go to see the a really well made German, ch, sch
    and ck & tz for German use?</em>\r\n\r\nI'll have to dig up some old specimens.
    I'm flying back to Berlin (actually: in 90 minutes) and will have to look there."
  created: '2008-01-14 04:17:29'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "I see another issue specific to German: We have lots of prefixes and compound
    nouns written in one word and you could argue that you should not use ligatures
    \"across the border\" of two parts of a word. In Fraktur this is even obligatory
    as far as I know.\r\nThen, if you do not use ligatures in some cases an alternative,
    shorter f can be handy for combinations such as fl fi fb and so on. I personally
    would never include an fb or fk ligature in my fonts.\r\nYou could try something
    similar in English: whereas an fl ligature makes sense in \"flying\" it looks
    somehow odd to me in \"briefly\" because the fl does not really \"belong together\".
    But you can certainly argue whether visual, linguistic or consistency matters
    are most important."
  created: '2008-01-14 11:13:53'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John, <em>\"...the exchangeables in ClearType involve different currencies....\"</em>\r\nYou
    mean the addition of 'color' to a 'b&w' specification? otherwise, No comprendo.
    The 'exchange rate' may be different, and the 'granularity' may be reduced, but
    the issues are identical in all Latin text - big things, little things, inside,
    outside, black space, white space & round-eyed brains.\r\n\r\n<em>\"...to handle
    fit without knowing whether subpixel positioning...\"</em>\r\n...is to mentally
    fuse rendering and layout \u2014 something I've already defused to prove cleartype
    non-useless. \r\n\r\n<em>\"...then all things, including contextual variants,
    should be on the table.\"</em>\r\nAnd to paraphrase from <em>Jaws</em>, you're
    gonna need a bigger table. \r\n\r\nRead Eriks, not to mention our typographic
    past, carefully. fi fl ch ck tz. What do they have in common? A stroke with a
    tiny remainder, then a stroke (or significant remainder) following. cfijklrstvwyz
    plenty-trouble. abdeghmnopqu not so much trouble. Which leaves the 'x' factor.
    :-)\r\n\r\nWhy do you think I'm 'so opposed' to Kevlar's letter-only-reading theory
    and them thar read-a-hillbillies insistence on readability as 'exclusively' a
    software engineering problem? lol, It's certainly not because my opinion counts
    outside of mine own clientele \u2014 it's because I can count in 'alphabet arithmetic'
    and apply it to the issue, everywhere it exists. You do to, if you think about
    it.\r\n\r\nTim, <em>\"an fl ligature makes sense in \u201Cflying\u201D it looks
    somehow odd to me in \u201Cbriefly\u201D because the fl does not really \u201Cbelong
    together\u201D</em>\r\nYou're young, so I'll not give up, but honestly I think
    that's not real.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-14 14:28:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eben,\r\n\r\nCheck your email.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-14 23:40:39'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks Chris!\r\n\r\n<cite> fl ligature / I think that\u2019s not real. </cite>
    Unless I see something that convinces me otherwise I would have to agree! I expect
    that a combination of letters that occurs early in a word or late in a word is
    likely to behave similarly. I do that that sometimes it might be useful to consider
    the shape of a letter at the beginning or ending of a word though simply because
    there is open space to the left or right of the letter in question and that makes
    a difference for precisely the same reason that having a flat or round or diagonally
    shaped neighbor might.\r\n\r\n<cite> cfijklrstvwyz</cite> Nicely put! I would
    add g to that depending on the design. A single story g not so much; but the double
    story creates interest and potentially some problems not least because of the
    many ways to handle the ear. The lc 'a' also has a lot of potential to vary if
    you want to push on it simply because it's form seems so especially good at resisting
    having it's utility ruined as it is reshaped.  \r\n\r\n<cite> old specimens </cite>\r\nExciting!"
  created: '2008-01-15 10:20:26'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> I\u2019ve not read the thread (yet), but you might want to look at
    some of the Arabic work of Tom Milo et al. </cite> Thanks! Actually the Bringhurst
    talk was part of what cemented my interest in giving this talk. Does Tom's work
    relate to what Robert's talk was about? "
  created: '2008-01-15 12:50:15'
date: '2008-01-10 04:21:18'
title: Any text faces being designed now with contextual alternates to improve fit?

---
