---
author:
  name: AndrewSipe
  picture: 109430
body: "http://www.apple.com/macbookair/\r\n\r\nStart your drooling..."
comments:
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: That first photo is quite deceptive, the angle hiding the bevelled edges making
    it appear thinner!
  created: '2008-01-15 18:53:06'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I believe it comes with a drool resistant force field - the same one that
    enables it to hover. '
  created: '2008-01-15 18:53:13'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "WOW!!! I actually need a new laptop. But I can't deal with only 13.3\", I
    was gonna go for the 17\".\r\n\r\nOnly one USB2 port though...? Whassup with that?"
  created: '2008-01-15 18:55:20'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "That's how they manage to get it down to three pounds.  :-)\r\n\r\nIt's tempting,
    but I want a bigger screen too."
  created: '2008-01-15 19:00:08'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "No optical drive\u2026"
  created: '2008-01-15 19:02:32'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: No optical drive is CRAZY. Installing software remotely? What if this is to
    be your only machine?
  created: '2008-01-15 19:12:14'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "It introduces a few new features...\r\n\r\n1. Remote Desktop... it uses the
    wireless network card (802.11N) to connect to any other networked computer and
    \"borrows\" their optical drives. This will let you install programs from disk,
    or burn CDs/DVDs. But if you don't have one, Apple is offering an external Superdrive
    for $100 more.\r\n\r\n2. The 1.6GHz and 1.8GHz processors are 60% smaller than
    their predecessors.\r\n\r\n3. It uses a multi-touch input pad instead of just
    a mouse pad. \r\n\r\n4. Used in conjunction with http://www.apple.com/timecapsule/specs.html,
    you don't really need much else.\r\n\r\nI think it's pretty impressive. 3lbs and
    .76\" at it's thickest point. I'm really more impressed with the technology and
    how it might factor in to the next iPhone."
  created: '2008-01-15 19:17:23'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "I haven't had an Apple product (outside of an iPod) in my life for over 5
    years. I am however really impressed with the last batch of computers coming out
    of Cupertino and will probably have a new Mac by year's end. \r\n\r\nIncase anyone
    thought I was just some overzealous Apple Fanboy."
  created: '2008-01-15 19:20:14'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Another problem - the glossy screen. I vastly prefer the matte.\r\n\r\nI
    would never buy a laptop that was dependent on an external drive or a wireless
    network for such basic functionality as installing software or watching a movie.
    It defeats the purpose of having a laptop. My current laptop doesn't have a CD/DVD
    burner and it's a huge pain. Plus I think one port isn't sufficient, no matter
    how wireless you go. \r\n\r\nI'd rather go for the 17\" MacBook Pro which is marked
    down (refurb) from $2799 to $2199."
  created: '2008-01-15 19:35:00'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: 'Hey, I''m not selling this stuff. Buy whatever you want. I''m just bringing
    it to everyone''s attention. '
  created: '2008-01-15 19:38:25'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> No optical drive is CRAZY. Installing software remotely? What if this is
    to be your only machine?\r\n\r\nFor most people, it's not meant to be their only
    machine. It's for folks who want an ultra-portable."
  created: '2008-01-15 19:53:34'
- author:
    name: Ken Messenger
    picture: 111387
  body: It seems a bit of a novelty to me. I'll admit to being an Apple fanboy but
    I don't see much of a market for this laptop. Small screen, no optical drive and
    heavy pricetag. It's nice if you've got a fat wallet and are only looking for
    the glitz factor.
  created: '2008-01-15 20:00:53'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I know a lot of people who have only a laptop.\r\n\r\nAnd 2 grand is a lot
    to pay for just an ultra-portable. But to each his own. I'll see what they add
    to it the next go-round. I never buy the first Mac anyway. It sure is purdy...."
  created: '2008-01-15 20:02:58'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "This is a product that most of us design people will have no use for. But
    MAN is it cool.\r\n\r\nI almost spit out my coffee when I read that the SSD hard
    drive adds <em>$1,300</em> to the price. Solid state is not ready for the mainstream.\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-15 20:23:51'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Yeah, the Time Capsule wireless router/hard drive/print server is much more
    useful and actually affordable (as Apple products go). \r\n\r\nI think the technological
    aspect of the Macbook Air is larger. Easily imagine the applications applied to
    a touchscreen tablet. And the networking aspect with limited I/O support, might
    be a push for security and simplicity on behalf of the user. This is what gets
    me excited, what these features might mean for future applications."
  created: '2008-01-15 20:26:21'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: Let's ride the wayback machine to when we all said "No floppy drive is CRAZY."
    That takes us way back to 2003.
  created: '2008-01-15 21:00:11'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I have a client that has a PC laptop that is the tiniest, cutest little thing
    I've ever seen. Super light weight too. He uses it when he's on the road doing
    presentations. I think this is going to be targeted at that sort of high roller.
    Someone that can afford to have a travel machine.
  created: '2008-01-15 21:12:36'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "If I traveled often it would be a great machine. A 15\" laptop is too big
    to use comfortably outside of business class on most flights, and the low weight
    would be nice if I just tossed a USB hub into a suitcase. But for everyday use?
    Not a chance. That GMA 3100 just won\u2019t cut it for World of Warcraft."
  created: '2008-01-15 21:57:05'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "@patty: The Air has one USB 2.0 port. Considering the fact that it has to
    be able to power that external SuperDrive, it\u2019s reasonable to assume that
    it will power a lot of USB-devices with just one (unpowered) USB-hub.\r\n\r\n.
    . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-01-15 22:29:28'
- author:
    name: Nickmulley
  body: "Also it seems a lot for the money considering it is actually only 0.24\"
    thinner than the 1\" thick macbook pro.\r\n\r\nfor almost half the price you can
    get an iBook with the drives and faster speeds all for an extra 0.32\", but I
    do admit the innovativeness of the whole wireless takeover is great, and I do
    think it is the way forward.\r\n\r\n\r\nIn the same way as I look at the iPhone,
    I can't wait to see the second generation, that will truly be inspirational."
  created: '2008-01-15 23:01:45'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Apparently it introduces a new way to pinch fonts...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/blogs/sfgate/detail?blogid=19&entry_id=23459\r\n\r\n\"On
    web pages, you can increase the font size with the pinch maneuver.\""
  created: '2008-01-15 23:16:23'
- author:
    name: eskalation.dk
    picture: 113986
  body: "heh, i was looking at this page: http://www.apple.com/macbookair/features.html
    ... i really dont like the baseline on the face they are using to write \"Major
    minor details.\"... Seems very uneven to me..\r\n \r\nI love the laptop though.
    I am going to keep my current one tho, 13\" is too small..\r\n------------------------\r\nVisit
    my website for my portfolio: <a href=\"http://www.eskalation.dk\">www.eskalation.dk</a>"
  created: '2008-01-15 23:24:31'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I think <A HREF=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/singles/monotype/myriad_pro_light/\">Myriad
    Light</A> does have some issues - the g bothers me for some reason. A result of
    the MM'ing? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-15 23:28:56'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "http://www.typophile.com/node/40957\r\n\r\nHaley Fiege knows best!\r\n\r\nThis
    is a far superior machine :)"
  created: '2008-01-15 23:52:54'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Another quick look and it seems to have lost the BRAUN influence. Can't quite
    put my finger on why, it seems to be a cross between a fighter jet and a clamshell
    mobile phone. About the optical drive, its going to be a hassle for existing DVD
    collections but I shan't be a luddite, this is obviously the way things are going!
    BlueStreak is right about that.\r\n\r\nI don't mean to be too disparaging, it
    cleary has interesting qualities."
  created: '2008-01-16 00:01:09'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<em>Another quick look and it seems to have lost the BRAUN influence.</em>\r\n\r\nBecause
    that look depends on angular lines. But if you have a wedge shape and need to
    make it look even smaller than it already is, softer lines are better. You could
    also poke someone's eye out with a computer as thin as 4mm if it didn't have smooth
    bevels. Braun went to wedges in the late 70s and they were fashionable, horribly
    so, and didn't last long.\r\nI've ordered my MacBook Air despite of its stupid
    name. I ride a bicycle to work and my Powerbook 15\" is very heavy to take along,
    as it is on flights. I'm on an airplane a few times a week, so schlepping only
    half the weight around will make a huge difference. I use a big monitor both at
    home and at work with all the peripherals attached, so i don't need anything else.
    I do miss a Firewire connection, but then most small drives these days have USB
    2.0 anyways. And when was the last time i put a DVD into my laptop? When i loaded
    Leopard. And how often does that happen? If one wanted to watch videos (which
    i don't), get them from a hard drive or use an ipod as external drive. \r\n\r\ne\r\n\r\nPS:
    disclaimer: i have a large collection of Braun equipment, like almost all their
    Hifi stuff from 1959 until the end, so i did quite enjoy having all that aluminum
    on my desk. Looks great with all that 60s stuff. And we still have the Braun calculator
    on the iPhone."
  created: '2008-01-16 01:06:57'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "Jonathan Ive and Braun designer Dieter Rams share the same basic design principles,
    and I imagine Ive looks to Rams for inspiration often. Take a look at this article
    recently published by Gizmodo on the Braun/Apple connection:\r\n\r\nhttp://gizmodo.com/343641/1960s-braun-products-hold-the-secrets-to-apples-future\r\n\r\nMy
    two cents on MacWorld08: \r\n-MacBook Air is cool looking, but it lacks so much
    (ports, replaceable battery, etc\u2026) that I can't imagine it being a very popular
    product for Apple.\r\n-iPhone update was significant enough for me to delete all
    my jailbreak work, although I still greatly look forward to the SDK. Love  the
    addition of group SMS and the mock-GPS feature works very well.\r\n-Time Capsule
    looks very interesting. Too bad I JUST BOUGHT a new Extreme.\r\n\r\nNothing else
    really caught my eye, I thought Steve really disappointed us this year. I guess
    since last year's iPhone extravaganza, they are going to have to work extra hard
    to keep us interested. :)\r\n\r\nThe best thing about MacWorld is being in San
    Francisco and seeing the magic that is Apple marketing. I have yet to actually
    see the street teams in action (with the exception of coming out of BART this
    morning during the keynote and seeing all blank walls), but sometime during the
    keynote (every year, right on cue) every single available ad space along Market
    Street and in the Bart stations seem to automagically produce all the new Apple
    ads in a matter of minutes. You can go outside the moment the keynote is over
    and the city is just blanketed in fresh Apple material. I think it is brilliant."
  created: '2008-01-16 01:39:16'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>Nothing else really caught my eye, I thought Steve really disappointed
    us this year. I guess since last year\u2019s iPhone extravaganza, they are going
    to have to work extra hard to keep us interested. :)</cite>\r\n\r\nApparently
    you aren't the only one who felt that way - Apple's stock fell significantly today.\r\n\r\nI
    realize we're all going wireless and this machine is probably forward thinking
    in that regard, but I need a machine that serves my purposes RIGHT NOW and that
    includes a disk drive and more than one USB port. I often plug a mouse into my
    laptop (I know, I can get a wireless mouse) and use my USB flash drive a lot.
    I just wouldn't want to have to lug around a lot of peripherals in order to use
    my supposedly portable device. And I get a lot of materials from clients on CD
    or DVD so without a way to put them in... not so useful. It's all moot (for me)
    anyway since a 13.3\" screen is way too small. \r\n\r\nErik, I think we'll all
    be interested when you get yours to hear what you think!\r\n\r\nZara - I just
    read your post again - no replaceable battery??? Like the iPhone. Really, what
    are they thinking. We can't be sending our machines away to get new batteries.
    Of course the battery on my powerbook has been dead for years and I only use it
    plugged in. Which is one reason I need a new machine."
  created: '2008-01-16 02:41:36'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: As usual, <a href="http://daringfireball.net/2008/01/macbook_air">John Gruber</a>
    has a the most astute take on the Air. In short, it's best as a secondary machine,
    like I imagined.
  created: '2008-01-16 10:11:37'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "It'll impress the clients and that cute person that sits across from you
    at the coffee shop.\r\n\r\nThere comes a point where I don't want/need smaller,
    though. I have a tough time finding things as it is."
  created: '2008-01-16 19:02:35'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: very expensive. costs more than a more versatile and more expandable laptop.
    what's the point ?
  created: '2008-01-16 20:57:48'
- author:
    name: carsten
    picture: 113572
  body: "The only really impressive thing I can find is the iPhone Touch pad.\r\nThe
    rest is not enough for a new MacBook. I doubt the MacBook Air will be that successful.\r\nI
    will definitely stay with my old one ^^.\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-16 21:06:23'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Doesn't this critique sound like how everyone boo-hooed the iMac ten years
    ago? You know, not a strong or powerful computer, too expensive compared with
    the competitors' less-pricey models, aimed at a niche market, not expandable,
    screen too small, AND NO FLOPPY DISK DRIVE!\r\n\r\nJobs was right then, so I'm
    not going to write him off now."
  created: '2008-01-16 22:02:29'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "but it's more expensive and less powerful than their own existing products,
    not to mention competitor's.\r\n\r\nmy question stands: what's the point ?\r\n\r\nif
    it's just sexy slimness, it's not a viable workhorse - it's just a vanity accessory."
  created: '2008-01-16 22:27:42'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Well Dan when they make the MacBook Air as good as the iMac, I'll get one.
    The early iMacs weren't powerful or expandable enough for designers, now they
    are. I'm sure this will be too, in time.\r\n\r\nExpandability is less of a plus
    these days then it used to be earlier on, when computers were expected to last
    longer. Nowadays it's almost as cheap to buy a new one, and they come out with
    upgrades and speed boosts so often. My Mac IIci (a whopping $3500) lasted me 10
    years. By the end it was only good for email and word processing. I've had my
    Powerbook since 2001 - it was the first Titanium and am due to replace it. But
    not with the Air.\r\n\r\nChris - it is a vanity accessory, but I know that for
    people who lug their laptops around all the time its weight is a powerful draw.
    My brother for example has been waiting for Mac to come out with a lightweight
    laptop."
  created: '2008-01-16 22:32:30'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"if it\u2019s just sexy slimness, it\u2019s not a viable workhorse - it\u2019s
    just a vanity accessory.\"\r\n\r\nAnd we all know there's zero money to be made
    in vanity accessories. ;0)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-16 22:48:17'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "yes it's probably good for folks who travel, write, etc.  \r\nmy criteria
    is biased toward processing and memory as per my video work. \r\nas for the cost
    and the vanity, hell, i'd buy one tomorrow if i had \r\nmoney to burn. my criteria
    is also biased by indy freelance budget constraints !"
  created: '2008-01-16 22:53:23'
- author:
    name: Ashleyco
    picture: 114016
  body: "What a pile of rubbish this Mac really is crap . It has one port !!!????
    the usability of this thing is absolutely zero.\r\nPlus the screen is the size
    of a fingernail. Come on Steve Jobs , you can do better than this ....."
  created: '2008-01-18 11:56:12'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: But; [[http://www.collegehumor.com/video:1797523/|It fits in an envelope]].
    ;)
  created: '2008-01-18 17:19:35'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "while i certainly understand the practical limitations, i think this Air
    is conceptually quite forward looking.\r\n\r\nas the sun CEO said years ago already
    (name?), the network is the computer. \r\n\r\nwhat is really valuable is the information
    we have access to (whether news we can look up, music we can buy, or the vector
    data defining our artwork). our physical interfaces with the information will
    continue to become more immaterial."
  created: '2008-01-19 16:48:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "More humor... http://joyoftech.com/joyoftech/joyarchives/1059.html \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-20 18:34:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Is the 3lb weight including battery? I found when I was shopping for a small,
    light travel laptop three years ago that most of the specs gave weight not including
    battery. Since the battery is often the heaviest component in a laptop, it can
    make a significant difference.
  created: '2008-01-20 22:58:32'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'As the battery is factory sealed (one of the gripes from the long-haul set)
    I can''t imagine how they''d quote weight without it. '
  created: '2008-01-20 23:00:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: http://www.engadget.com/2008/01/15/macbook-air-doesnt-have-a-user-replaceable-battery/
  created: '2008-01-20 23:01:51'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Factor sealed = screwed in. You <em>can</em> replace it, but it's not very
    convenient.
  created: '2008-01-21 00:30:24'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Actually, it\u2019s just one Phillips-head screw. That might not be convenient
    for people who lug extra batteries around, but now that governments and airlines
    are banning extra batteries due to the explosive tendencies of cheap Asian batteries,
    it\u2019s not much of an issue."
  created: '2008-01-21 00:35:19'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "http://www.appleinsider.com/articles/08/01/18/sources_macbook_air_battery_replacements_take_only_minutes.html\r\n\r\nTrue,
    but on that long flight to London you wouldn't be allowed to take a screwdriver
    on board."
  created: '2008-01-21 00:35:58'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">but now that governments and airlines are banning extra batteries due to
    the explosive tendencies of cheap Asian batteries\r\n\r\nOnce again Apple thinking
    ahead. Damn they're good!"
  created: '2008-01-21 00:38:30'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Brilliant quote from the engadget thread:\r\n\r\nAnd in other news, the 2009
    lineup for Apple is projected to have the new MacBook Vapor. At only 0.1\" thin,
    the MacBook Vapor sports all of the features of the MacBook Air, only minus the
    hard drive, CPU, and display. The MacBook Vapor will ship in early 2009 and retail
    for only $2,399!\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-21 02:19:27'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Isn\u2019t there some equation re what a person burns off in calories per
    hour for every pound lugged around? \r\n\r\nIn a couple of months you\u2019ll
    be able to discern whether a person has a MacBook Air or a regular laptop in his/her
    totebag by looking at the girth of the person: the former ones will be noticably
    heavier, haha!\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-01-21 08:53:14'
- author:
    name: Nightshade
    picture: 114036
  body: "Hi everyone - this is my first post here :)\r\n\r\nThis is an interesting
    read on the top 10 \"problems\" with the new macbook Air.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.apcmag.com/7839/macbook_air_top_10_things_wrong_with_it\r\n\r\n:::::::::::::::::::::\r\nWicked
    Design Potions"
  created: '2008-01-21 12:49:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: So I wonder who will be the first kid on the block to have a MacBook Air <a
    href="http://www.computer-choppers.com/">pimped</a>?
  created: '2008-01-21 18:54:44'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "That is truly disturbing. I hope it transfers heat even worse than the real
    thing.\r\n\r\nAfter lugging my 17\" MacBook Pro to New Orleans recently this looks
    like a pretty good alternative to me. Carry On has become code for Beast of Burden.\r\n\r\nMan
    I hate flying.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-01-21 19:32:40'
date: '2008-01-15 18:46:47'
title: MacBook Air

---
