---
author:
  name: Si_Daniels
  picture: 110446
body: "I doubt anyone here has an opinion on this... \r\n\r\nhttp://www.engadget.com/2008/01/16/if-jobs-says-people-dont-read-anymore-does-this-headline-rea/"
comments:
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Hasn't print been \"dead\" already for a decade and a half? ;-)\r\n\r\nStill,
    Jobs' take on \"people don't read anymore, especially on paper\" isn't very different
    from what most technologists/futurists say at given opportunities.\r\n\r\nEven
    if print and books do die, there is still hope for type. At least for now."
  created: '2008-01-16 20:33:54'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "this is absurd. \r\nprint will die when physical reality goes away.\r\n\r\nelectronics,
    luminous screens, computer interfaces - \r\nthese are all great and seductive
    and increasingly ubiquitous \r\nbut to suggest that:\r\nA) they will someday be
    available to everyone, \r\nand \r\nB) they will someday be preferred by everyone\r\nsimply
    flies in the face of observation and reason.\r\n\r\npeople are still drawing and
    painting, too. \r\nnot just obscure marginalized eccentrics,\r\nbut active and
    vital artists.\r\n\r\nreflective light and physical pigments have a life and value
    of their own."
  created: '2008-01-16 20:40:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am an admitted old fart and not gen X or Y or Z. BUT,\r\nI love books even
    if just to have and hold. \r\nWhen your battery is on the fritz or your system
    is down, or when the sun is bright, or when the power is off, or when the cable
    breaks, or when the UV rays get to you, or when...\r\nYou can read a book without
    worrying if you will need an upgrade, drop it on the floor tuck in a bookmark,
    lend it to your Aunt Sue, see real type...\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-16 20:48:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "From what I can tell, the entire notion that reading is rapidly, dramatically
    declining, is a fallacy. While sales of what publishers and librarians call \u201Cserious
    fiction\u201C are clearly falling off, it seems like the markets for pulp fiction,
    fantasy, nonfiction, comics/graphic novels/manga and periodicals are all selling
    wildly. The tiny independent bookstores of America have been replaced by massive
    superstores, whose profits are in free-fall because people buy enough books that
    they\u2019re ordering them from mail-order discounters to save money\u2014not
    something that people who only read one or fewer books a year do. Digital library
    catalogs, editions of books, periodical archives, etc. make it easier to do vast
    amounts of research in relatively minuscule amounts of time. Stephen King has
    written about this phenomenon, point out that maybe people are just reading less
    serious fiction because what\u2019s on the shelves is often boring and pretentious,
    and consumers would rather just stick to Harry Potter.\r\n\r\nCan anyone who works
    with the book industry shed some light on overall book sales as opposed to the
    decline in reading novels?"
  created: '2008-01-16 21:27:34'
- author:
    name: LogoMotives
    picture: 110231
  body: "Jobs will be dead long before books ever cease to exist.  I'm another one
    of those people (and a design-o-saur at that) who needs and wants to feel the
    book, smell the ink, and escape from technology into the true reading experience.
    \ I've usually got 3-4 books going at once, scattered about the house.\r\n\r\nJeff
    Fisher | Engineer of Creative Identity | <a href=http://www.jfisherlogomotives.com>Jeff
    Fisher LogoMotives</url>"
  created: '2008-01-16 21:35:41'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "He's got a point. I don't read books nearly as much as I used to nor would
    like to. And bookstores aren't what they used to be, for sure. \r\n\r\nGranted,
    this is likely what they also said when Radio was invented...and TV...and the
    Web...and..."
  created: '2008-01-16 21:38:09'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I for one read in bed, on the subway, on the beach, all places I don't want
    to be staring at a screen. Books are perfect because they are both disposable
    and reusable, I buy most of my books used (even though I work in publishing).\r\n\r\nI
    think some kinds of books may well be dead - phone books for one. But I have a
    stack of paperbacks by my bed - and am among the 60% who DO read at least a book
    a year (more like a book a week, or at least a month). So I think he's full of
    hot air.\r\n\r\nAlarmingly, my eyes are starting to go. It's probably just age
    but I blame the computer screen as well. \r\n\r\nI also read the newspaper!"
  created: '2008-01-16 21:46:44'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "><em>I for one read in bed, on the subway, on the beach</em>\r\n\r\nAlthough
    I've not yet taken a laptop to the beach (not so odd, as I actually don't like
    the beach\u2026 unfortunately for me it is just skin cancer waiting to happen\u2026),
    I very often have my laptop open to read or work in bed or on the subway.\r\n\r\nP.S.:
    Actually, I read and buy quite a lot of books, actually \u2013\_both used and
    new. Plus, I read newspapers quite often, although here I must admit as pretty
    as the print edition is, I always read the New York Times online! It is just more
    convenient for me, I think."
  created: '2008-01-16 21:59:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "According to the article [[http://bookyards.blogspot.com/2008/01/decline-of-book-publishing.html|referenced
    here]], last year there were more books published than the previous year. And
    I haven't heard of any over decline of book sales, as compared to the decline
    in printed-on-paper newspapers. \r\n\r\nKindle or its successors may replace paper
    books, but there's no sign of it yet. \r\n\r\nHas anyone seen a Kindle? How readable
    did you find the screen? *Readable*, not legible--you could read a hundred pages
    just as comfortably as a well designed and printed book.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-16 22:10:47'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Be sure to get out your Kindle everyone! So you can experience the future
    of reading! It gives you immediate access to any book in the world, typeset by
    software with absolutely no typographic skill or quality at all! Here's to trashing
    one of the most refined pieces of human design in the world: the book!\r\n\r\nFeh.\r\n\r\nBooks
    will <em>never</em> go away, unless something occurs to A) prevent their production,
    or B) make their production untenable. They're too cheap, to convenient, and too
    good to disappear. Anyone who says otherwise has too much disposable income (or
    tech stocks).\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-16 22:21:12'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>I always read the New York Times online! It is just more convenient
    for me, I think.</cite>\r\n\r\nOne of the reasons I read the print edition instead
    is that by paging through the entire thing I often find myself reading articles
    I would probably skip online, if I just saw the headline. I hate wasting all that
    paper but I do feel like I am much better informed by looking at every page of
    the paper.\r\n\r\nI look at books as a way to give my eyes a break from the screen,
    which is why I don't bring my laptop to bed. I wouldn't dare use it on the subway.
    I also *try* not to stare at the screen in the last hour before going to bed -
    I was told once it was bad for sleep.\r\n\r\nI read an article awhile back that
    I can't find now in defense of the book - it speaks to this point. Oh well."
  created: '2008-01-16 22:26:10'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Uhhhh. 100%-40%=60%. 300 (million people), is to X, as 60 is to. 100..so...180
    million people reading more than one book, is a large number to equate to \"no
    one\". If there is a hidden meaning here, I think Mr. Jobs isn't hiding it. Because
    Apple can't make good reading devices either in America or for Americans, preferring
    to make cheap listening devices and communication toys in other countries, Mr.
    Jobs is not interested in that 60%, preferring to suck blood out of one entertainment
    industry sector after another, before someone else does. Good reading fonts, after
    all, are difficult, when compared to phone calls, or vegging to Black Sabbath
    for a nickel.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-16 22:32:04'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Jobs: books are dead\r\n\r\n\r\nSo, fewer jobs, more job seekers ?   :)"
  created: '2008-01-16 22:49:48'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<a href=http://www.geekculture.com/joyoftech/joyarchives/692flash.html>uh-huh...
    </a>\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-01-16 23:20:48'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "Didn\u2019t he just announce the iTunes Movie Store or something?\r\nWhat
    else could he say but books are dead to promote this.\r\n\r\nWhat Stevie didn\u2019t
    consider is that most Americans may not find the time to read a book in between
    their two dayjobs and the nightjob (nor can afford a slick MacHotAirBook).\r\nThe
    man\u2019s seriously overrated.\r\n\r\nI couldn\u2019t imagine my life without
    reading books.\r\nI have to admit though, all I ever designed in that respect
    are audiobooks ;-)"
  created: '2008-01-17 00:00:38'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "If any of Apple's typography managers or programmers are reading this, we
    have a couple of open positions. Contact me off-list and I'll hook you up. The
    weather up here isn\u2019t that bad. ;-)"
  created: '2008-01-17 00:15:44'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "Sorry sii, I had to google a bit first to understand where <em>up here</em>
    is.\r\nIs the weather actually better than <em>down there</em>?"
  created: '2008-01-17 00:42:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "By most measures the weather is worse. I remember flying down to sell Apple
    some fonts two years back. It had been rainy, gray and damp in Seattle for what
    felt like (and probably was) months. At Apple HQ we sat outside their cafe in
    the sunshine and had some great noodles - was very pleasant. \r\n"
  created: '2008-01-17 01:31:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Do they sell no-fault insurance in Cupertino?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-17 01:34:50'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@Descom\r\n<cite>You can read a book without worrying if you will need an
    upgrade.</cite>\r\nI dunno about that. Bringhurst is up to version 1.3, and I'm
    waiting in eager anticipation for when he spells Carl Crossgrove's name correctly
    in 1.4.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-17 01:40:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!!!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-17 01:41:50'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: As to the weather, I'd take our perfect Spring/Summer/Fall and a miserable
    rainy winter in Seattle over the blistering hot summer and forest/grass fires
    of Cali.
  created: '2008-01-17 01:44:56'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "There is no blistering hot summer or grass fires in Northern California.
    Northern California is the best place in the entire world if you don't mind the
    threat of an occasional (every 50 to 100 years) massive earthquake.\r\n\r\nAnd,
    you're not reading this either."
  created: '2008-01-17 01:51:47'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "You've sold me. I've not been down to the bay-area in a while... but as they
    say down there \"I'll be back.\" \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/thumbnailCAXJ4AUZ_6238.jpg]"
  created: '2008-01-17 02:04:13'
- author:
    name: Dimitri Kayiambakis
    picture: 112218
  body: "If the book was invented today, it would be a sensation: You don\u2019t need
    electricity but you can still take it everywhere. "
  created: '2008-01-17 09:39:41'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "This must be the symptom of our age. \r\n\r\n______ is Desd!\r\n\r\nGod,
    paper, books, newspapers, no matter how sacrosanct a thing is, it has to be removed.\r\n\r\nIt's
    like something out of Douglas Adams. "
  created: '2008-01-17 10:30:43'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Wasn't Apple dead, not so long ago?\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-01-17 12:11:13'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "There are several things at play here. First, I\u2019m not one to defend
    Steve Jobs, but the Engadget article linked at the top of this thread has him
    saying that people don\u2019t read anymore, not that books are dead. I have issues
    with both statements anyway.\r\n\r\nThat people are reading more and more off
    screens is just a fact, I don\u2019t think it needs to be qualified further. I\u2019m
    reading my news online on my computers (an iMac and a crusty old TiBook, alas),
    and I\u2019m reading technical material (documentation, etc.) and work documents.
    Do I ever need to print stuff? Very seldom, and I think it\u2019s for the better.\r\n\r\nI
    don\u2019t buy the somewhat luddist position of people who want to feel the paper
    and smell the ink vs. shabby computers or book-reading devices. I love books,
    I love paper, I love letterpress too, I wouldn\u2019t be here if that wasn\u2019t
    the case. But I don\u2019t think anyone can argue that John Le Carr\xE9 or Dan
    Brown books, which are printed on cheap paper and are the classical read and then
    throw in a pile of crap kinds of books, are really objects that we want to carry
    around in this new century. My father consumes them like crazy, then they end
    up in huge stacks that just take place and gather dust. Never do they get re-read,
    because that\u2019s not what they\u2019re after: you don\u2019t read novels like
    these, you consume them as entertainment. If you follow my point, that kind of
    disposable stuff doesn\u2019t belong to print, in my opinion. These books don\u2019t
    have the feel of good books, because they are cheap by design.\r\n\r\nThat market
    sector, which is just huge, is rife for being passed onto e-book reading devices,
    screens, etc. I have been working with an Italian company that imports e-ink reading
    devices like the <a href=\"http://www.irextechnologies.com/products/iliad\">iRex
    Iliad</a>, and I have had one for more than a year now. That is something, like
    the Kindle, which you can take with you in bed. It doesn\u2019t make any noise,
    it doesn\u2019t produce light (you\u2019ll need your regular book lamp), it\u2019s
    as light and as a book. Don\u2019t take my word for it, try to get your hands
    on one and see for yourself. And consider a device holds not just one book, you
    can annotate them without harming the original, you can download one while on
    the road for a fraction of the cost of the paper version, etc. \r\n\r\nAlso think
    of the distribution scenarios and of the environmental issues. Paper needs to
    be transported by plane, trains, wheel, it has weight, it has limited supplies
    so new print runs need to be scheduled and produced, then there\u2019s the issue
    of excess copies, etc. All of this problems that we take for granted are simply
    not there in a digital scenario. People get books more often, pay them less, authors
    get paid faster and possibly more without the overhead of print production and
    distribution, and marketing changes dramatically, too. \r\n\r\nFor books which
    are truly of value, either because they\u2019re wonderful references (think <cite>Letters
    of Credit</cite>!) or just plain wonderful books (the <cite>Divina Commedia</cite>
    published by <a href=\"http://www.talloneeditore.it/\">Tallone</a>), I just don\u2019t
    see what the supposed threat might be. Where form is ahead or on par of function,
    form has value and I\u2019ll gladly continue to pay for it. \r\n\r\nAs for typography:
    technical changes are all over the history of our craft, yet until we somehow
    come up with a way to replace words that need to be read and written, I don\u2019t
    see any sort of harm whatsoever. In fact I think the market for screen fonts and
    other ways to present text on screens will become bigger and more diverse, and
    that is good news for typographers, type designers and for people reading off
    screens as well."
  created: '2008-01-17 13:53:30'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Newspapers are in peril right now, but I suspect that is more from the loss
    of the once lucrative classified advertising than people not reading. The Web
    is simply more efficient for buying houses, cars, and getting a job.\r\n\r\nAnd
    the younger generation probably reads less than the older one (and we ... age
    50 ... probably read less than our grandparents).\r\n\r\nBut when you do read,
    there is no better format than the old codex."
  created: '2008-01-17 14:09:08'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Nostradamus
  created: '2008-01-17 14:19:47'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "If the [printed] book were invented today? A novel concept. Let's pretend
    that printing never existed and books have been printed electronically for the
    last 500 years and are read on electronic readers that were perfected during the
    first two or three hundred years of electronic publishing.\r\n\r\n[seque to futuristic
    conference room, start with voice over]\r\n\r\nI'm a writer and at my publishers
    office this morning. The publisher, designers and typesetters have my new book
    all wrapped up in Portable Document Format ready for global distribution. We're
    excited. My book is ready to be distributed to the entire world in minutes by
    just pushing some electrons around.\r\n\r\nBut one of the designers speaks up
    and says somewhat confidently, \"hold up, I've thought of a better way to get
    this information to the readers of the world. First we'll chop a few thousand
    trees and transport them on big trucks to a plant that will grind them up into
    pulp, wash the pulp with wicked bleach\" \u2014 he didn't know what happened to
    the bleach after the wash. \"Then we press the pulp and iron it on huge screens,
    roll this new paper on huge spools, and put the spools on other big trucks to
    take them a few hundred miles to another plant. It only takes a month or so and
    only cost a few hundred thousands dollars.\"\r\n\r\n\"While the trees are being
    ground, bleached and pressed, another factory is cooking up big gloppy oil and
    pigment. The plant cooks this glop to just the right consistently by mixing in
    some sweet solvents \u2014 it's quite a spiritual thing. Then it's put in barrels,
    loaded on other big trucks, and transported a few hundred miles to the same plant
    where the paper was delivered.\"\r\n\r\nAt this point the designer said \"they
    take our PDF that we have prepped here, and they etch these huge metal plates
    with the design. Then they put it on these big machines that transfer the pigmented
    glop, called ink, onto the paper. This pigmented paper is then cut up and glued
    into stacks called books. These books you can actually hold in your hand and smell,
    or even lick if you want! These paper books are collected and put into boxes,
    and then, you know, loaded on big trucks and taken a few hundred miles to a warehouse.\"\r\n\r\n\"At
    that point the books are broken into smaller units and taken on thousands of smaller
    trucks and airplanes to places all over the world. What about it? What do you
    think?\"\r\n\r\nSo we think about it. Hmmm? We can deliver this right now with
    hardly any effort or expense and it can be read on electronic readers that we've
    been using for hundreds of years, edits and corrections can be made instantly,
    and autoreaders can even read it to someone without effort. Or we can chop hundreds
    of trees, mix hundreds of gallons of solvents, cook oil into ink, burn thousands
    of gallons of fuel and employ thousands of hours of manpower. It didn't take long
    for us to snort and say \"nah, we think not.\"\r\n\r\n[freeze frame, and wrap
    with voice over]\r\n\r\nI'm sure the printed book will last, for a few more years
    anyway. But you guys are funny. Do all of you naysayers still hitch the horse
    to the buggy every morning for the ride to the bookstore? I'm amazed at the lack
    of vision \u2014 the same crowd that dismissed typesetting on PCs a couple of
    decades ago. And let's see, who was that guy who saw the potential for proportional
    type on PCs?"
  created: '2008-01-17 16:05:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Blue Streak, you left out the part about paper having a resolution of 2700
    dpi vs 96 dpi for screen, and being able read paper for hundreds of pages in comfort,
    vs two paragraphs on screen. \r\n\r\nWhen we can read screens with the comfort
    and comprehension of paper, then screens will replace much of the paper sources
    of information. The silly part of what Jobs says is that people are not reading.
    The internet is reading too, and book buying hasn't gone down, as I said. \r\n\r\nThe
    question is when will screen reading be as good as paper."
  created: '2008-01-17 16:46:20'
- author:
    name: elizabeth_355
    picture: 112087
  body: "I'm developing a website for an association of landlords in my area. One
    thing I have to do is get up to speed quickly on New York landlord-tenant law,
    and one of the association members is lending me a 600-page book on the subject.
    This book is apparently the only one on the topic that these people recommend,
    and is both expensive and difficult to find.\r\n\r\nI had planned to spend the
    next couple of weekends reading <I>Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows</I> ...
    which is a lovely example of a printed book."
  created: '2008-01-17 17:03:35'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "William: e-ink based devices are up to 160dpi and getting better, while devices
    like the Nokia N810 are up to 225dpi. The Apple iPhone is somewhere around 163dpi,
    apparently. Yes, it\u2019s much worse than paper, but improving quite fast."
  created: '2008-01-17 17:12:26'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I'm betting on books. They are fetish objects more and more. As reading on
    screen becomes increasingly common the line between informational reading and
    the collecting aspect of owning a printed book will become even more precious.
    Just follow a thread or two about which vintage version of a book is most desirable.
    I can see the market for printed books shrinking, and the quality going up as
    books will become seen more as collectible objects. If on screen reading improves,
    as we all suspect and are being sold on the idea, then many of us may find ourselves
    reading books on screen that we own in print so as not to put the wear and tear
    on the spines.\r\n\r\nI like to backpack, but I don't own a GPS device. I take
    a compass and USGS map. The reason is weight. Same issue with a book. Not everyone
    wants to be encumbered with electronic devices. There is a freedom to a book and
    a low tech appeal that probably will never be matched by an electronic device.
    How many book pages can you read while the person next to you turns on a device
    and loads the text they want to read? How long to you have to recharge a book
    before you continue reading? There are so many more factors than on screen text
    rendering.\r\n\r\n<cite>I\u2019m sure the printed book will last, for a few more
    years anyway. But you guys are funny. Do all of you naysayers still hitch the
    horse to the buggy every morning for the ride to the bookstore? I\u2019m amazed
    at the lack of vision \u2014 the same crowd that dismissed typesetting on PCs
    a couple of decades ago. And let\u2019s see, who was that guy who saw the potential
    for proportional type on PCs?</cite>\r\n\r\nThe horse and buggy thought is interesting.
    We do drive cars (for the moment) but horses still exist, along with the tack,
    training and other associated industries. Horses are still used for patrol and
    crowd control in some urban environments (I'm laughing as I write from Fort Worth).
    The new technology came in and the old industry contracted and adapted. Point
    being that if you wanted a buggy today you would probably be purchasing one from
    a very skilled artisan. The buggy might very well be of higher quality than what
    was available pre-automobile."
  created: '2008-01-17 17:13:01'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: 'James, I think your post is based on the false assumption that there has
    to be some kind of winner in this debate: books are not going away but neither
    are screens or other digital devices. We just have to understand where each one
    might fit.'
  created: '2008-01-17 17:39:03'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Me? False assumption? Is there any other kind? Sry if my tone is combative.
    I'm actually attempting to dilute the black and white aspects of the Jobs statement
    and grey it all up.
  created: '2008-01-17 17:58:07'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "I wonder if a similar debate happened when clay tablets were starting to
    get replaced by papyrus.\r\n\r\nClayman: This papyrus stuff sure is sporting,
    but it'll never replace the tablets! We've had them for thousands of years, there
    is an inherent quality, the reassuring weight... they can last for centuries and
    longer! Clay is warm, volumous and sacred, it's taken from our world's bosom,
    and shaped by crafty hands into a thing of beauty. It is binding and once set,
    can not be altered. Without clay, there can not be a law.\r\n\r\nScrollman: Yeah
    dude, but it's frigging heavy, and a pain in the loincloth to produce!\r\n\r\nI
    am sure books will last for at least 10 more years, and would still be around
    as relics and collectors items after that, but the paradigm is shifting, and as
    much as this saddens me, there doesn't seem to be much we can do.\r\n\r\nPersonally,
    I'd rather we were still hand-drawing things on virginal vellum.\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-01-17 18:15:26'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>Not everyone wants to be encumbered with electronic devices. </cite>\r\n\r\nor
    to risk losing it or having it get damaged.\r\n\r\n<cite>I am sure books will
    last for at least 10 more years</cite>\r\n\r\noh please, that is ridiculous. My
    god, people even still listen to the radio, can you believe it? And vinyl was
    declared dead only to be... not so dead. \r\n\r\nIt is just nicer on the eyes
    to read a book. Call me a luddite. I spend so many hours staring at the screen
    all day, it's nice to give my eyes a rest when I can."
  created: '2008-01-17 18:25:56'
- author:
    name: tungsteno
    picture: 128122
  body: http://www.ala.org/ala/alonline/selectedarticles/10reasonswhy.cfm
  created: '2008-01-17 18:36:15'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Perhaps the devices themselves can get to the point where it is comfortable
    to read from, but I have yet to see an electronic book that was typeset properly.\r\n\r\nEspecially
    all of the awesome manuscripts available at the Gutenberg Project, which suffer
    from an especially hard scenario to read or fix:\r\n\r\n<ol>\r\n<li>Courier</li>
    \r\n<li>Forced line breaks</li>\r\n</ol>\r\n\r\nGranted, WE could probably just
    fix the stuff and be done with it. But what about the *millions* of people who
    have no clue, but gotta have the latest technology?"
  created: '2008-01-17 18:43:02'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "What needs to happen for the e-books to become the dominant form:\r\n\r\n1.The
    readers must become dirt-cheap (will happened when e-texts become responsible
    for most of the revenue)\r\n2. The screens must be of high enough resolution and
    have no strain on the eyes. (Already happening with e-paper)\r\n3. The device
    must be highly durable and easy to use.\r\n4. Common formats must emerge.\r\n5.
    Professional practices of design and typesetting must be applied to commercially
    available texts.\r\n6. Freely available and public domain books and previews (Gutenberg,
    Moshkov library, google books etc.) be instantly accessible.\r\n7. Free wireless
    across the western world.\r\n\r\nMost of these should be achieved in the next
    3-4 years, and 6 more years for gradual adoption and acceptance. So all-in-all
    10 years. of course this leaves us with only 5 more years until the singularity,
    but that's a different story :)\r\n\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-01-17 19:15:21'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: ">>According to the article referenced here, last year there were more books
    published than the previous year.<<\r\n\r\n2 words:\r\nHarry Potter"
  created: '2008-01-17 19:16:13'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: For some reason the idea of "curling up with a good e-book" doesn't strike
    me as even remotely fun.
  created: '2008-01-17 19:29:20'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: ">For some reason the idea of \u201Ccurling up with a good e-book\u201D doesn\u2019t
    strike me as even remotely fun.<\r\n\r\nEven in nice leather binding?\r\n\r\nRemember,
    we are not talking about clunky grey boxes with shiny buttons and pixalated text
    on sinister glowing screens.\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ebook_4620.jpg]"
  created: '2008-01-17 20:05:35'
- author:
    name: Wesley.Bancroft
    picture: 112463
  body: "The \"idea\" of a book gives it depth. \r\n\r\nDid the \"Video Phone\" (<em>a
    phone that captures the user and sends a live feed of one user to another</em>),
    ever catch on? No. \r\n\r\nWhy? \r\nWell, because people like the idea of the
    traditional phone concealing the user, whether that be subconscious or purposive.
    \r\n\r\nPeople enjoy the \"idea\" of a book. "
  created: '2008-01-17 20:39:01'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "The video phone did not catch on because it does not solve any particular
    problem. It is more expensive, and less useful then a voice-only phone. It makes
    people feel uncomfortable and self-conscious, complicating communication. You
    wouldn't want to receive a call while sitting on a toilet, or on bad-hair-day,
    and would think twice about calling someone after a night of heavy drinking. Video
    calling is more difficult, more expensive and less efficient in day-to-day life
    then voice communication. E-books are cheaper to produce, easier to distribute,
    and simpler to augment.\r\n\r\nDon't get me wrong, I love books, love 'em with
    all me heart. I enjoy the smell of good binding, the tactile quality of the paper,
    the sound of rustling pages and the sight of arching spines, lining together on
    the shelf. The prospect of books becoming obsolete, sends a shiver down my spine.
    But look at it this way: An illuminated manuscript is much more precious and beautiful
    thing then a printed codex. Each volume is unique, each infused with the humanity
    of the scribe and the vibrance of the illuminator. But movable type on paper,
    is simply more practical, accessible and easier to produce. Clay->Papyrus->Vellum->Paper->...
    Each was succeeded by the next. What makes paper exempt?\r\n\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-01-17 22:09:17'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Jobs is dead.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2008-01-17 22:32:52'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: Jobs wasn't suggesting that books themselves are dead; he was commenting on
    the failure of the Kindle as a product. I disagree with his reasoning--the Kindle
    is a failure because people prefer physical media, and there's never any reason
    you would need to carry 800 books with you. I can believe the statistic, however,
    that 40 percent of Americans read one book or fewer last year. And that one book
    was Harry Potter.
  created: '2008-01-18 03:49:33'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: "enjoyed this list\r\n\r\n****\r\n\r\n\r\nPosted By: Steven Poole of The Guardian\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    here propose a minimal list of features that any successful ebook device must
    eventually have. Feature parity with physical books, after all, is surely a reasonable
    baseline demand. So here is what the electronic book of the future will be like.\r\n\r\n1
    It will have an inexhaustible source of energy and never need recharging.\r\n\r\n2
    It will have resolution as good as print. (No, Amazon: really as good as print.)\r\n\r\n3
    It will be able to survive coffee and wine spills, days of intense sunlight, dropping
    in the ocean, light charring, and falling completely into two or more pieces,
    while still remaining perfectly readable afterwards.\r\n\r\n4 It will allow me
    to scribble notes and/or doodles in the margins, with my choice of mechanical
    pencil or fine Muji fibre-tip pen (black). (Note: typing in the margins with a
    crappy thumb keyboard is not an acceptable alternative.)\r\n\r\n5 It will allow
    me to riffle through it and thus get a quick, intuitive look at the book's argumentative
    or narrative structure.\r\n\r\n6 It will allow me to tear off the corner of a
    page to write down my phone number (or someone else's).\r\n\r\n7 It will display
    to other people in coffee shops and on public transport the title of what I am
    reading, so as to advertise my erudition or quirky sense of humour.\r\n\r\n8 It
    will be physically handsome, not drop-dead fugly. (Note to Amazon: for pity's
    sake, next time, head-hunt people from Sony or Apple.)\r\n\r\n9 Indeed, the books
    on it will still be designed, by typesetters and graphic artists, so as to feed
    our aesthetic pleasure.\r\n\r\n10 I will still be able to lend or give books to
    friends, or swap books in and out of the honour library of much-read novels in
    a Mediterranean seaside bar.\r\n\r\n11 I will be able to use the ebook as a reliable
    flat surface for rolling cigarettes or other leaf-based refreshments, without
    worrying about debris shorting the motherboard.\r\n\r\n12 When I receive the updated
    edition of the Oxford Companion to Philosophy, I will be able to press the previous
    edition into service as a stand for the left-hand music speaker on my desk.\r\n\r\n13
    The ebook will function, moreover, as both bug-crusher and discretionary hat.
    Placed on my face, it will make a soft roof against the sun on the beach.\r\n\r\n14
    I will be able to hurl a fatuous tome such as Jeff Gomez's Print Is Dead across
    the room without thereby destroying my ability to read any other books.\r\n\r\nThere.
    Only 14 features to go before we can all abandon paper. Not too much to ask, is
    it?"
  created: '2008-01-18 04:01:25'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">8 It will be physically handsome, not drop-dead fugly. (Note to Amazon:
    for pity\u2019s sake, next time, head-hunt people from Sony or Apple.) \r\n\r\nEr,
    they were ex-Apple guys... \r\n\r\nhttp://gizmodo.com/gadgets/cupertino-neighbors/amazon-kindle-designers-hail-from-cupertino-325142.php
    \r\n\r\n...goes to prove you need the \"right\" Apple guys.\r\n\r\nAnd Sony? They
    picked BT Dutch, fake italics and small caps for their reader. ;-)"
  created: '2008-01-18 04:05:53'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: "also on gizmodo: The right apple guy might just be a Braun guy. :)\r\n\r\nhttp://gizmodo.com/343641/1960s-braun-products-hold-the-secrets-to-apples-future"
  created: '2008-01-18 04:28:28'
- author:
    name: Dtronic
    picture: 112249
  body: "Well, there are always Durabooks to tide us over until a viable ebook becomes
    available. Seems like a nice paper-alternative, particularly if you subscribe
    to the \"Cradle to Cradle,\" eco-effective design philosophy. \r\n\r\nhttp://www.durabooks.com/\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-18 06:04:35'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "@bluestreak\r\n\r\nThere is something to be said for keeping the process
    of producing/duplicating something complicated. I mean, if you had to chop down
    and pulp trees, concoct ink, etch plates, etc. to generate an .mp3 (or an .otf),
    certain industries might be doing better... \r\n\r\nEdit: I should probably mention
    that I'm aware that type piracy has a long an ignominious history that far predates
    ctrl+C, ctrl+V."
  created: '2008-01-18 21:32:44'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "@bluestreak\r\n\r\nSeriously? Your 'future' story edits out the process of
    manufacturing all of the hardware required to produce an e-reader, the digital
    distribution system required to send out content, and the power needed to run
    them. In your story, it's as though they just grow out of the ground... like trees.\r\n\r\nBooks
    will be around for a lot longer than a few years, if only because they cost so
    little to buy and there are billions of them in the world already."
  created: '2008-01-18 22:24:45'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Renewable vs. nonrenewable resources could be and issue. Asteroid mining isn't
    sounding so sci-fi these days.
  created: '2008-01-18 22:41:12'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: This discussion has me convinced that there are photographers still out there
    convinced that digital photography will never replace film.
  created: '2008-01-18 22:46:47'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>This discussion has me convinced that there are photographers still
    out there convinced that digital photography will never replace film.</cite>\r\n\r\nThere
    are! And vinyl is alive and well (as I said earlier).\r\n\r\nI just don't see
    ebooks as an improvement on the printed page. And Brian has beautifully pointed
    out the advantages of book-as-object over yet another screen to fry our corneas
    with. \r\n\r\nBluestreak, do let us know how that Koolaid tastes."
  created: '2008-01-19 05:03:35'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "eBooks have some obvious advantages compared to paper, and some obvious limitations
    as well. At least some of those limitations are likely to be eroded or eliminated
    with time.\r\n\r\nIt's inevitable that eBooks will reduce print publishing: it's
    a question of how much and how quickly. I don't expect print to go away in the
    foreseeable future, but I do expect that the market for print in first-world countries
    will be reduced considerably within my lifetime.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I won't be
    surprised if my own first eBook reader device that isn't a laptop computer is
    also a cell phone and web browser. Then again, I expect the dividing lines between
    cell phone, laptop computer and PDA will continue to blur. The iPhone is one of
    the latest steps in that direction, but it won't be the last. \r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-01-19 06:05:53'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "\"There are! And vinyl is alive and well (as I said earlier)...\r\nBluestreak,
    do let us know how that Koolaid tastes.\"\r\n\r\nI'm actually a Mountain Dew kinda
    guy, but I like the humorous jab. Too bad that I just sold my film-based SLR and
    lenses on eBay. If you like vinyl, I've got around three hundred LPs and a sweet
    Technics turntable that I'm looking to sell to a sucker. Oops, I meant savvy buyer.
    I hated CDs when they first came out and swore that I'd never give up my LPs,
    but I did. I have so many books in stacks on the floor that I practically can't
    move around my house and studio. (Anyone looking for a set of 1960s Collier encyclopedias?
    Free if you pick up.) \r\n\r\nWe are getting deeper into a digital age and like
    with music and photography, digital books are taking the next inevitable step
    as the predominant medium. I find the convenience of iTunes to be a thousand times
    easier than continually changing LPs, putting them back in their sleeve and back
    on the shelf \u2014 in alphabetic order of course. When I think of a song I want,
    I can be listening to it in a minute or less for one US dollar. That used to be
    a bit more laborious and expensive to say the least. I rode my bike to the record
    store more than thirty years ago to purchase my first song. It was a 45 of Stevie
    Wonder's \"Sir Duke\" and it cost me $2.50 I think. With my new digital cameras,
    I love the convenience of seeing my shots instantly and not having to print a
    dozen to see the one I want to keep. The savings on film will eventually save
    many times the cost of the new camera.\r\n\r\nI think I'm really going to enjoy
    the convenience and efficiency of the new digital books, just like I enjoy having
    daily conversations with people around the world about type and stuff without
    ever having to get out of my jammies. I'm not an early adopter of anything. I
    wait until a third generation or so before I jump in. I'm watching this with a
    keen eye because digital books are on step one now and quickly moving to step
    two. It is inevitable and there is nothing we can do or say here that is going
    to change it. And it's going to be great."
  created: '2008-01-19 14:50:58'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026but I do expect that the market for print in first-world countries
    will be reduced considerably within my lifetime.</cite>\r\n\r\nI expect the opposite;
    in wealthy nations people will go on reading books because people have the resources
    to print them, transport them, and are used to reading them. But in poor nations,
    where there are no bookstores outside the big cities and illiteracy is still common,
    the convenience of ebooks and lack of a cultural connection to print will make
    ebooks explode once the price of the readers comes down."
  created: '2008-01-19 15:46:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "http://www.6lyrics.com/music/simon_garfunkel/lyrics/kodachrome1.aspx\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-19 20:36:32'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Chris:\" Your \u2019future\u2019 story edits out the process of manufacturing
    all of the hardware required to produce an e-reader, the digital distribution
    system required to send out content, and the power needed to run them.\"\r\n\r\nYes,
    but your view of that future apparently ignores the fact that the hardware required
    to produce an e-reader, the digital distribution system required to send out content,
    and the power needed to run them...is not just a making a book, a reader, or a
    book reader, is it...\r\n\r\nWhen the argument centers around 'books' it's only
    half-brained anyway \u2014 'print' being the issue. To take you to another point
    to view from, I'll tell you that I make a large order to a candle factory two
    times a year. It took me two orderings before I found a purveyor who would send
    to me candles simply wrapped in recyclable materials and safely cardboard-boxed,
    as opposed to a large printed box, in a larger cardboard box, containing individually
    printed boxes, each enclosing one candle further wrapped in cellophane with little
    printed stickers on each candle. Who has the time ex-post-web purchase, or environmental
    disregard, to deal with print and packaging meant for point-of-purchase sales?
    When you translate this from Candle-world to word-world, you see what I mean,
    maybe. \r\n\r\nBut maybe not...;) \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-01-21 15:02:28'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>But in poor nations, where there are no bookstores outside the big
    cities and illiteracy is still common, the convenience of ebooks and lack of a
    cultural connection to print will make ebooks explode once the price of the readers
    comes down.</cite>\r\n\r\nOnly tangential, but check out the work <a href=\"http://www.eduvision.or.ke/home/home.html\">EduVision</a>
    is doing in Kenya to replace physical textbooks with tablet computers."
  created: '2008-01-22 05:32:18'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Books have been around for 500+ years...\r\n\r\nAnd how come there are still
    magazines?\r\n\r\nAnd not only are people still buying vinyl, they're also still
    buying CDs, and DVDs...\r\n\r\nThe world must be full of luddites... and I must
    be one of them!  ;-)"
  created: '2008-02-23 07:43:18'
- author:
    name: Scalfin
    picture: 114154
  body: And that's what scientists call negligible. There are still people who knap
    and practice funereal cannibalism.
  created: '2008-02-24 04:13:52'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Negligible: A word used to dismiss inconvenient data.\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-02-24 04:31:13'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "Negligible: as in...\r\nCB radios, VHS tapes, cassette tapes, wood stoves,
    a catalog from Sears, etc. The end of print isn't an overnight thing. I've already
    noticed a serious decline in the last twenty years and it's just getting started.
    Twenty more years and printing on paper will be neglible.\r\n\r\nAlthough I'm
    beginning to think there is going to be an energy-based apocalypse and there will
    be a resurgence of hand-pressed woodtype printing, and we'll be using hand-cranked
    generators to charge our iPods."
  created: '2008-02-24 14:30:03'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "I am excited to see what will happen if the System crashs.\r\nAll your fine
    Macs and PC won't run anymore.\r\nNo chance to find digital information anymore,
    'cause of course Internet will collaps first.\r\n\r\nWe all will go back to good
    old letterpress.\r\nAnd you guys will develope new lead types and designs.\r\nEvery
    nation for itsself. With a peaceful information exchange and a life without hectic
    and pressure - how wonderful :-)\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n_______________________________________________\r\n\u201EIch
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben...\u201C"
  created: '2008-02-24 16:48:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Books have been around for 500+ years...</em>\r\n\r\nCloser to 2000 years.\r\n\r\n<em>The
    end of print isn\u2019t an overnight thing. I\u2019ve already noticed a serious
    decline in the last twenty years and it\u2019s just getting started.</em>\r\n\r\nOn
    what do you base this observation? Obviously not on book publishing, because the
    number of books being both printed and sold has been rising steadily. A recent
    issue of the London Review of Books had statistics for the UK publishing industry:
    the annual turnover is 2.8 billion GBP, which is only .1 billion less than that
    of sales of <em>bread</em>. 900,000 books are sold in the UK every day, which
    is one book for every ten loaves of bread. 115,000 new titles are published every
    year, and excepting an insignificant dip in 2004-05 the number of books published
    has risen steadily every year since 1947.\r\n\r\nNon-print text media have become
    extremely important in the past fifteen years, but not in competition with books.
    If you look at the kind of content that benefits from being in a downloadable
    electronic format one can see how new media compete with newspapers, magazines,
    reference books (encyclopaedias, dictionaries, etc.) There is, as yet, little
    competition with most book publishing.\r\n\r\nAs others have noted, this may change
    when display technology improves, but I think there is more to it than that. Every
    dedicated ebook device I have seen has presumed a pocketbook format, which means
    that it is essentially only useful for things like novels. Go into any bookshop
    and take a look at the incredible range of size formats and content structuring
    in books, and you'll see how impoverished the electronic reading devices are;
    they quite simply cannot replicate the complexity of print publishing.\r\n\r\nComparisons
    to e.g. vinyl vs CD vs online music or different formats of video recording and
    playback are misleading, because all these involve media that require a playback
    device. Going from one medium to another is only a shift in the storage format
    and playback device. Going from a book to an ebook is a different kind of shift,
    though, because the book is its own playback device. Reading a book isn't like
    listening to a recording of someone singing played back on a machine; it is like
    listening to someone singing who happens to be in the next room. It is worth remembering
    that typography didn't significantly change the book, it just made it possible
    to produce more copies more quickly. Reading a book isn't like reading an email,
    which requires the intermediary machine; it is like reading a letter written on
    a piece of paper. Despite the technology that has been employed in typesetting
    and printing the book, its relationship with the reader, and hence the reader's
    relationship with the author, does not rely on technological mediation.\r\n\r\nI
    live on an island that, for a couple of months each winter, is beset with wind
    storms. Power outages are quite common, sometimes lasting more than 24 hours.
    When the backup marine batteries are fully discharged, the computer batteries
    long since dead, I'm especially glad of my books."
  created: '2008-02-24 20:19:40'
- author:
    name: Scalfin
    picture: 114154
  body: Ebooks need little electricity if they use electronic paper, and sharpened
    sticks (which were used for millennia, and are still used by chimps) are more
    water resistant that gunpowder.
  created: '2008-02-24 23:13:58'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "<em>On what do you base this observation? Obviously not on book publishing...</em>\r\n\r\nBased
    on my own observation of numerous family owned print shops, that had been in operation
    for decades, going bankrupt. Based on a highly competitive market of paper vendors
    in my area, each with spec reps, now being down to one vendor and a regional spec
    rep that is hardly seen. So maybe you're right, books haven't taken the big fall
    yet. But newsletters, catalogs, encyclopedias, etc. have, and books will soon.
    At least in my opinion, and I'm not a big believer in the integrity of statistics.
    Google has started putting books online. Amazon has made a move with a digital
    reader. Electronic book media is going to improve and the trend is going to accelerate
    the decline of print. The first big hit to book publishing is going to be textbooks.
    Kids are toting around books that weigh more than they do, and the books have
    to be reprinted every five or six years. Soon there will be very good tablet/readers
    with many features and benefits. Textbooks will be distributed electronically
    and continually updated.\r\n\r\nI'm not a book hater. I got about a dozen for
    Christmas, ordered another yesterday, and have several more that I'm planning
    on buying soon. I've really got my eye on the Font Book and pretty certain that
    it's a collectors item. I'm hunting a copy of the PLINC Alphabet Thesaurus, but
    it's obviously a collectors item and priced accordingly every I look. However
    I'm obviously of the opinion that future electronic media is going to be far superior
    to ink on paper.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-24 23:50:38'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "I said... <em>Books have been around for 500+ years...</em>\r\n\r\nJohn replied...
    <em>Closer to 2000 years.</em>\r\n\r\nA very good point, John. I was talking about
    books made since Gutenberg's time, on printing presses, but you're right: books
    existed before Gutenberg, only they were made by hand.\r\n\r\nGeorg (Bleisetzer)
    said... <em>I am excited to see what will happen if the System crashs. [...] We
    all will go back to good old letterpress.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, even if the System
    crashes and there are no more computers or an internet, printing books the way
    we've been doing damages the environment... So I don't know if going back to letterpress
    would be such a good idea. (Sorry to get all preachy -- I've been reading <a href=\"http://www.mcdonough.com/cradle_to_cradle.htm\"><em>Cradle
    to Cradle</em></a>, and learning about the dangers of ceratin inks and printing
    processes.)\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-24 23:56:10'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "I saw Chip Kidd at a book signing for his new novel, The Learners. An audience
    member asked him about a recent comment he had made about the Kindle. this was
    the comment he was asked about:\r\n\r\nOn Monday November 19th, Amazon released
    something called Kindle, the latest \u201Ce-book\u201D reading device. I\u2019ve
    been asked to comment on what effect I think this will have, if any, on book design
    as we know it. Here goes.\r\n\r\nNone.\r\n\r\nSincerely,\r\nChip Kidd\r\n\r\n\r\nThe
    rest:\r\nhttp://abriefmessage.com/2007/11/28/kidd/\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-26 20:33:31'
- author:
    name: Scalfin
    picture: 114154
  body: I really don't understand why ebooks are seen as a danger, as they will bring
    down the costs of self-publishing considerably, letting the long tail take hold.
    At that point, the only problem will be reviewing all of them. It should even
    help designers, who would have more customers (if smaller individual commissions)
  created: '2008-02-26 21:32:27'
date: '2008-01-16 20:29:42'
node_type: forum
title: 'Jobs: books are dead'

---
