---
author:
  name: Dan Gayle
  picture: 111595
body: "Here's an interesting situation: URW releases Avant Garde, Century Schoolbook,
  Times, Helvetica, Bookman, Zapf Chancery, Courier, and Palatino to the Ghostscript
  community as freely available and modifiable basic Latin and Western European Postscript
  fonts.\r\n\r\nThe [[http://www.gust.org.pl/projects/e-foundry/tex-gyre/ | Polish
  Grupa U\u017Cytkownik\xF3w Systemu TeX (GUST)]] took it upon themselves the task
  of to \"remaking and extending of the freely available fonts distributed with Ghostscript\"
  by adding further diacritics and language support. \r\n\r\nThe resulting TeX Gyre
  OpenType fonts also include added proportional oldstyle figures and small caps versions
  not found in the original Postscript release.\r\n\r\nThat's right: Helvetica and
  Courier with Small Caps. \r\n\r\n(Although, the small caps R in Helvetica looks
  a little wonky.)\r\n\r\nSo the question arises: what is your opinion about the Tex
  Gyre fonts? I'm interested in either your technical analysis of the fonts themselves
  or your opinion about the whole thing idea.\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Well, for the sake of discussion I'll ignore the ethical issues around releasing
    a bunch of clones of original designs - that happened long before they were donated
    to the GhostScript community.\r\n\r\nThe quality is wildly variable. The \"original\"
    [sic] URW fonts are really of very good quality, and that continues in the outlines
    that are directly sourced from the URW originals. The added Greek, Cyrillic, small
    caps and oldstyle figures are generally somewhere in a range from mediocre to
    poor to largely useless. Some are better than others. On the down side, look at
    the oldstyle two in the Palatino clone.\r\n\r\nI think this really shows both
    the strengths and weaknesses of open source fonts (maybe open source software
    in general?). There's some really first-rate material, and some utter junk, and
    it's mixed into a single font (or piece of software). But heck, it's free!  :/\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-01-17 05:36:28'
- author:
    name: Scott Thatcher
    picture: 111324
  body: "As a TeX user, I have always appreciated the times that someone very knowledgeable
    about type has provided insight into the fonts that are readily available in the
    TeX world. Usually the response has been similar to Thomas Phinney's: mixed quality.
    \ I like the fact that Knuth's Computer Modern is given an \"honorable mention\"
    on the Typophile libre fonts wiki page. That's always been where I've placed it.\r\n\r\nAlthough
    I have purchased and installed for use with TeX many professional typefaces (thanks
    Adobe for allowing modification of the font files), I still have a keen interest
    in the freely-available font packages.  It's not because of cost, but because
    I hope I'll find a package that contains a good typeface _and_ all the integration
    that's necessary to pair it with harmonizing mathematical symbols. I also hope
    to find packages that I can recommend to students that will allow them to improve
    the quality of their output.\r\n\r\nHere's a general question: The TeX Gyre web
    page provides information about the automated method used to generate small caps,
    which involves unequal scaling in the x and y directions and application of a
    brush to trace the outline and thicken it further in the x direction--just enough
    to match the upper case. While I know that any automated process isn't ideal,
    could such a process produce results \"good enough\" not to be embarrassing to
    someone choosing to use those glyphs?  I once did that as a personal project with
    Palatino (URW Palladio) and felt that the letters came out OK, but my attempts
    at old-style numerals definitely delimited the extent of my skills.\r\n\r\nST"
  created: '2008-01-18 18:13:28'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: That's how they did the small caps? I never got that far in reading the site.
    Automation without human correction is bad for the soul. And that explains why
    the small caps R of their Helvetica looks slightly off. No one corrected it.
  created: '2008-01-18 20:19:42'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "Thomas,\r\n\r\nCompare TeX software and your widely available commercial
    office suite: both have made contributions ranging from excellent to largely useless.
    But one is free.\r\n\r\nI personally find the commercial suite useless period.
    In contrast, I thank Adobe and the LaTeX community (especially those who gave
    the world the MinionPro package) for the ability to prepare good looking documents
    at no charge."
  created: '2008-01-18 22:06:25'
- author:
    name: mojca
  body: "Note that:\r\n- they are not aware of all the bugs & problems\r\n- they are
    open to suggestions\r\n- they respond to emails\r\n- they add or improve glyphs
    based on user requests\r\n\r\nIf you think that small caps R looks horrible, drop
    them an email. They sometimes need some time to answer, but they almost always
    do. And they keep improving glyphs based on user requests/comments.\r\n\r\nOn
    the contrary, I would not dare asking Adobe to add a new glyph to their fonts.\r\n\r\nRight
    now, they're trying to find funding (even if these are small user contributions)
    to design math glyphs for all of these fonts.\r\n\r\nThey do a marvellous job.
    I'm esp. a big fan of their Antykwa Toru\u0144ska:\r\n   http://nowacki.strefa.pl/torunska-e.html\r\n\r\nMojca\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-18 23:50:52'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@EK\r\nTeX, although I've never used it, certainly fills a need for many.
    And the price is right. But it's hard to paint a broad stroke saying \"I personally
    find the commercial suite useless period.,\" when in fact, if you ARE a commercial
    graphic designer with any hopes of file compatibility with other graphic designers,
    you'll need to use commercial software. I know of no design agencies, publishers,
    print shops, etc., that don't use commercial software, i.e., Adobe's Creative
    Suite or equivalent.\r\n\r\nThey're nothing more than tools of the trade. If you're
    a construction worker framing a house, you need a hammer, a belt, and a truck,
    right? No different.\r\n\r\n@Mojca\r\nI'm not complaining about the free/commercial
    aspect. I'm not even complaining about the glyphs being off a little. (You get
    what you pay for...) I'm just curious to see what kind of results <strong>have
    been made</strong> by a small group of noble-minded volunteers. If I see any problems,
    I'll certainly feel free to either contribute what I can or to notify them of
    my concerns.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-19 00:59:36'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "Dan, \r\n\r\nThe reference was to a commercial office suite that I dislike,
    not an Adobe product. I meant to show that \"some really first-rate material,
    and some utter junk\" characterizes commercial software as much as open source.
    \r\n\r\nAnd thank you for bringing up the compatibility argument. It's hard to
    find any argument to prefer that famous commercial suite over the alternatives
    other than compatibility. That's why its maker has worked hard to reduce interoperability."
  created: '2008-01-19 06:08:50'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@Mojca: <cite>On the contrary, I would not dare asking Adobe to add a new
    glyph to their fonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhy ever not? In fact, we take such suggestions
    quite seriously. They influence both our decisions about what to put in new fonts,
    and what we do when retrofitting existing fonts. I've even blogged about it....\r\n\r\nI'm
    kind of tied up right now with some personal medical issues (writing this from
    the hospital, in fact), but I'd be happy to give a more detailed commentary on
    what I noticed in reviewing the TeX Gyre fonts at some later date. But the main
    thing the fonts need is not expert critiques, but a larger donation of time by
    one (or preferably more) people who really know their stuff to actually fix the
    fonts.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-01-19 07:40:28'
- author:
    name: Scott Thatcher
    picture: 111324
  body: "DanGayle wrote:<cite>That\u2019s how they did the small caps? I never got
    that far in reading the site. Automation without human correction is bad for the
    soul.</cite>\r\n\r\nI should offer the correction that I read far enough to see
    how they automated creation of small caps, but I didn't read far enough to see
    if they stated at a later time that they corrected the glyphs by hand. Having
    read changelogs, etc. for the Latin Modern fonts, it really does seem like they're
    putting serious attention into these projects.\r\n\r\nThomas: as a frequent lurker
    here, I've always appreciated your comments, and I hope you get well soon.\r\n\r\nST"
  created: '2008-01-19 14:00:26'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I can say based on some recent suggestions which I've made that Adobe does
    listen to the users.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-20 03:11:39'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I took a look at the Century Schoolbook a few weeks back, and thought some
    of the added characters rendered the font (well, the new characters) unusable.
    The old-style figures were particularly bad.\r\n\r\nI'd say Thomas has it about
    right.\r\n\r\nWhen you think on it, typographic niceties are not required for
    communication -- lining figures and full caps communicate information adequately.
    The reason for their use is aesthetic, and if they are rendered poorly, they don't
    fulfill that function.\r\n\r\nOpenSource fonts are not about letting people get
    something for free. The licenses for most fonts, if adhered to, prohibit anyone
    but a large, successful commercial corporation from fully using them. For example,
    consider scholarly journals, which ideally are (1) printed, (2) put on the web,
    (3) available for downloading, and (4) etc. Sometimes the total subscriber base
    is as small as 1,000, though the total audience, esp. for single articles, may
    be significantly larger.\r\n\r\nWhat are they to do? Site licenses are prohibitively
    expensive. How many good OSF are there, maybe 1 or 2?\r\n\r\nAgain, Thomas is
    correct -- what is needed is a few good folk to donate their time & talent.\r\n\r\nThere
    is still plenty of business left for type designers. Just look at the design forum
    \"I need a font that looks like (whatever), but is new!!!\" IMSLTHO, most of the
    suggestions are inferior to (whatever). But they are new, & apparently sell.\r\n\r\nFWIW "
  created: '2008-01-20 17:42:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Charles, if your business sector can't afford to pay for good new fonts,
    you don't deserve them.\r\nSo quit whining and don't expect a handout!\r\nYou've
    been spoiled by digital publishing, paperless publishing on the internet, and
    faux features for small caps, fractions, and superior figures, which make things
    seem a little too easy. And the glyph- and feature-loaded fonts that Adobe bundles
    with InDesign.\r\n\r\nSince FontLab 4.5 enabled Mac-based type designers--people
    like myself with independent foundries--to produce typographically-rich OpenType
    fonts three years ago, we have been working hard constructing these beasts, and
    they are starting to be published. Concurrently, Reading University has been seeding
    the industry with a new breed of broadly-educated (language, culture, coding,
    history) type designers who have a quite different foundation than the previous
    new generation of 200-character-per font, DIY deconstructionists. And also, an
    internet community of diverse stakeholders has coalesced and nurtured the development
    of mega-fonts*. All this is in play, and the scholarly publishing sector is beginning
    to reap the dividends. \r\n\r\nHaving spent thousands of hours in developing scholar-worthy
    fonts that are still not published, I already feel like I have donated enough
    time and talent, without having to put out freebies. I don't know exactly where
    I will recoup my investment, but I expect it will more likely be from the corporate
    and periodical sectors. Scholarly publishing will be a beneficiary, as the pool
    of suitable fonts available from independent foundries grows larger. So get out
    your cheque-book and build more fonts into your budget, because the new ideas
    that will stick will be those that are well thought out, well written, well edited,
    and well set--in well-designed new fonts.\r\n\r\n*An example: in his Typblography
    blog, Thomas Phinney started a thread on Cyrillic character support, in which
    he outlined his, and Adobe's philosophy. That really put things in perspective,
    and was an inspiration to me by providing a logical framework for increased character
    support (with examples). He also solicited feedback. So right there, the dynamic
    intersection of the corporate, the academic, and the independent.\r\n\r\nThomas,
    here's wishing you back on your feet soon.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-21 00:05:48'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Nick, in general, I have a lot of respect for you. But not tonight. Scholarly
    publishing has gotten along only by more or less skirting the issue of embedded
    fonts appearing on the internet.\r\n\r\nAs far as whining goes, I have given of
    my talents, such as they are, to scholarly publishing. When needed, and when within
    the license, I have cut needed characters such as phonetic symbols, the Latin
    characters from Latin Extended A, B, and Additional. I've done what I can for
    the aesthetics of some fonts too, cutting small caps -- especially italic small
    caps -- sometimes roman as well. Occasionally, heart in hand, I even cut old-style
    numbers. I sweat a lot over the old-style 2. And other work.\r\n\r\nHow much do
    we charge for this? Not one damn cent. \r\n\r\nBut I do not have the skill to
    complete full alphabets, or some of the more intricate phonetic symbols, and the
    licenses forbid my releasing the characters I can do to the scholarly community
    generally. For the Adobe fonts, I'd give them to Adobe for re-release, but I imagine
    they wouldn't want them. They're OK, better that the fonts under discussion, but
    not perfect. They work for text size settings. Sorry I lack the skill but not
    the desire.\r\n\r\nI don't care if you don't participate. Your choices are yours
    to make. But why council others not to contribute a little? If you think university
    presses have the money & are just being tight, you are wrong. From my side of
    the blanket, I see the whining coming from a different spot.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-21 01:18:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>But why council others not to contribute a little?</em>\r\n\r\nI wasn't.
    In fact, might I recommend that you pass the hat round amongst the scholarly community
    and have everyone chip in a few bucks? Then hire a commercial foundry to produce
    the fonts you need, and avoid being caught between the rock of commercial fonts
    that are deemed too expensive, and the hard place of \"first-rate mixed with junk\"
    that occurs with open source."
  created: '2008-01-21 07:12:20'
- author:
    name: Scott Thatcher
    picture: 111324
  body: "<cite>hire a commercial foundry to produce the fonts you need</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    has been done before. Those familiar with LaTeX will know that Hermann Zapf was
    commissioned to create the Euler math fonts by the American Mathematical Society.
    They were originally created to complement Knuth's Concrete text fonts, but they
    are also a good complement to Palatino and other similar text fonts. I'd love
    to see this happen a few more times, perhaps creating several high-quality font
    packages to complement a wide range of text fonts.\r\n\r\nAnd while I'm giving
    my wish list, I'd love to see someone (pay to?) create a multiple-master font
    consisting of just those mathematical symbols that aren't letters and don't need
    as much design, but whose weight should be adjusted to match the text face.  Many
    newer fonts are now shipping with Greek and other glyphs that would be useful
    for typesetting math, but they need matching symbols if everything is to piece
    together well. Computer modern is very complete and is often used to fill in missing
    glyphs in other typefaces, but its symbols are too light to match many of them.
    [The mathkit package attempted to do this using metafont in 1998, but I would
    guess that it produces bitmapped fonts as the final product.]\r\n\r\nI thought
    of giving this a try just before my son was born... Afterwards, I didn't think
    about it as much.\r\n\r\nST"
  created: '2008-01-21 16:51:12'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "The University of Toronto Press spent several thousand dollars in the late
    80s to create PostScript outlines of Knuth's math fonts. However, management at
    that time decided not to share those fonts with the community. There is competition
    even within the scholarly marketplace.\r\n\r\n(In the end it was not a big problem.
    Adobe came out with the Lucida Math set, based on Knuth's mappings, within a year.)"
  created: '2008-01-21 18:00:47'
- author:
    name: JCSalomon
    picture: 128147
  body: "&emsp;The TeX Gyre project <em>does</em> pay for professional designers to
    work on the fonts, though the initial work was done by programmers.&ensp;They
    are currently soliciting for donations for Stage 2 of the project (Unicode math
    coverage; Stage 3 in the [[http://tinyurl.com/29sxzq|original project plan]])
    which is expected to cost \u20AC40K, some of which should be covered by the TeX
    users' groups.&ensp;Stage 3, \"a cleanup and redesign of current shapes that are
    not okay\", is supposed to follow somewhat later.\r\n\u2014Joel"
  created: '2008-01-22 01:20:19'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: 'It seems to be the consensus, at least of those here at Typophile, that Stage
    3 ought to be moved forward in the grand scheme of things. '
  created: '2008-01-22 02:08:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I agree, but Stage 3 is locking the barn door after the horse has bolted.\r\nThis
    project would have benefited from involving people who know how to draw, from
    the outset.\r\n\r\nWhere it has been possible to cannibalize the original roman
    characters to make new characters, the resulting glyphs are ok if not too much
    modification is required -- many Cyrillic characters are fine. But where even
    a little re-drawing is required, the quality suffers. Where completely original
    letterforms are required--the Greek lower case of \"Pagella\" for instance--the
    results are ghastly. Really, those should be re-done from scratch. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-22 04:02:06'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "As I see it, this is the goal of this project: Create open licensed fonts
    with reasonably extended character sets and added typographic niceties like small
    caps and old-style figures, all wrapped up in a well-coded cross-platform Opentype
    font.\r\n\r\nIt's not to create open licensed typefaces with character sets that
    cover more than the basic Western Latin. That's covered elsewhere, by other typefaces
    such as Gentium and the Deja Vu fonts.\r\n\r\nIs it to create math fonts for educational
    texts? Not really, because that has already been done. \r\n\r\nSo if your purpose
    is in fact to make nice, typographically rich fonts, why even release them unless
    the rich <em>typographic</em> parts of the font are well-done?\r\n\r\nThis is
    not to belittle the contributions made so far, but I think Nick is right. Well-intentioned
    does not equate to well-drawn, and rich type design is by definition well-drawn.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-22 05:32:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: No, I don't mean to belittle the project. It's great to see people and organizations
    developing fonts with this scope, and I don't consider it competition for new
    commercial type designs -- if anything, I would expect that these fonts, with
    their introduction of typographic niceties prompted by OpenType, will stimulate
    interest in commercial fonts amongst people who might not otherwise consider them;
    as long as the commercial fonts have the character support. So the challenge for
    foundries is to develop fonts which have both the character complement and the
    typographic features. It's a huge amount of work.
  created: '2008-01-22 06:01:20'
- author:
    name: JCSalomon
    picture: 128147
  body: "Thomas,\r\n&emsp;Could you please post your review of TeX Gyre, or has everything
    been said in this thread?\r\n\u2014Joel"
  created: '2008-04-11 16:45:17'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Sorry, I am back at work now, but also trying to catch up from my outage.
    More on that elsewhere, I think. Suffice it to say that everyone is fine in my
    family, and we're all home.  :)\r\n\r\nI think that the comments in this thread
    give a fair bit of guidance. I could do a more detailed critique, but it would
    take a lot of time, and anybody capable of fixing things based on that would also
    be capable of reviewing the fonts and finding and fixing problems along the way.
    A *really* detailed critique could be done, that might guide a less experienced
    type designer, but that would be at least an order of magnitude more work. 40-80
    hrs instead of 4-8, kind of thing.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-04-13 06:32:50'
- author:
    name: Christopher Adams
    picture: 117894
  body: "After reading this thread I was encouraged to examine the fonts in question
    more closely.\r\n\r\nOne interesting difference I noted was the redrawing of the
    ogoneks (the Polish connection, I assume). Viz:\r\n\r\n<strong>HELVETICA</strong>
    clones:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Heros_v_Nimbus_v_Helvetica-Neue_6434.png]\r\n\r\nNimbus,
    Helvetica Neue and URW Gothic (see below) appear to be missing the \u01EA (Oogonek).
    And note the placement of the tittle in the lowercase i in TeX Gyre Heros.\r\n\r\n<strong>Avant
    Garde</strong> clones:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Adventor_v_URW-Gothic_5257.png]"
  created: '2009-11-20 06:21:34'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: At least they're consistent. Look at how widely Nimbus varies in their additions.
    (Unless variation is a good thing. I've ever designed an Oogonek)
  created: '2009-11-20 20:12:37'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I had recently visited the web site for this project.\r\n\r\nOn the general
    subject of which typefaces are most appropriate to mathematical typography, I
    would like to make some comments.\r\n\r\nTimes Roman is a very popular typeface
    these days. Like Caslon, it has sharp points; like Baskerville and Corona it is
    a Transitional design, and it happens to be beautiful. However, quite aside from
    Donald Knuth's preferred style of italic x, its italics needed to be altered for
    mathematical composition, specifically to change the italic v so that it would
    not be confused with the Greek nu. (The reduction in slant was done for technical
    reasons, and the slant of the italics for Modern No. 7 is the same as that for
    the regular Times Roman italic, so that is not required by the aesthetics of mathematical
    typography.)\r\n\r\nNeedless to say, if you are using a word processing program
    on a computer to set mathematics in Times Roman, the italics you are likely to
    get are going to be based on those of Times 327, not Times 569, even if that font
    has been digitized (even in Times 569, the modified g, v, and w were alternate
    forms, however).\r\n\r\nComputer Modern, while a contribution we should be grateful
    for, still \"looks funny\" compared to conventional fonts; there is an effort
    to design an improved version of it.\r\n\r\nWhile the font Modern No. 7 is reasonably
    attractive, it still looks somewhat dull and severe from the standpoint of current
    fashions. Partly, it suffers from being associated with the Scotch Roman styles
    used in 19th-century typography which was unattractive.\r\n\r\nIf one isn't bold
    enough to try AMS Euler or even Cambria Math, is there an obvious alternative?
    I think there is, and I'm surprised it seems to be neglected.\r\n\r\nI remember
    reading somewhere - and finding it confirmed by my experience - that if there
    are three competing magazines, each seeking its own typographic identity, a very
    likely result is that one will be set in Times Roman, another will be set in Caledonia,
    and then the third will be set in Century Expanded.\r\n\r\nCentury Expanded, of
    course, belongs to the same general category of typeface as Modern No. 7, but
    unlike both it and Computer Modern, it is fully acceptable to current tastes.
    So, to my mind, it is the \"obvious\" choice, but I don't see it being used much
    for mathematical publication."
  created: '2009-11-24 12:32:54'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: You can see samples of all Gyre fonts (and some others) at http://www.nowacki.strefa.pl/wzornik/
    , "Napisz i zobacz" is the place for your sample.
  created: '2010-06-16 11:35:31'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: 'It seems to me that the review, if published, would be 10x more valuable
    than directly improving the fonts. '
  created: '2010-07-19 18:47:00'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: If it were as impossible to extract a font from a .PDF as it was from a printed
    book on paper, so that embedding wasn't an issue, then people wouldn't need "free"
    fonts to publish PDF documents - that was the issue that was raised here, which
    has nothing to do with not paying to license a font. Although I thought the licenses
    for most commercial fonts did include embedding.
  created: '2010-10-07 03:57:27'
date: '2008-01-17 00:49:52'
node_type: forum
title: Opinions about TeX Gyre fonts

---
