---
author:
  name: glyphobet
  picture: 112278
body: "<a href=\"http://design-police.org/\">These stickers for labeling common typographical
  errors</a> are brilliant.  I wish I'd thought of them. \r\n<a href=\"http://design-police.org/\">http://design-police.org/</a>\r\n\r\n-matt\r\n\r\nP.S.
  Apologies if this has been posted before.  My searches didn't find anything, but
  similar attempts have failed in the past."
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I want to be an art director just so I can stick these all over people\u2019s
    stuff. "
  created: '2008-01-18 14:37:46'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Download a set anyway, James.  ;-)\r\n\r\nThanks for a great laugh, Matt
    -- these are just fabulous."
  created: '2008-01-18 14:42:47'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "What Linda said.\r\n\r\nThat's a very cool and gleebtastic J in your avatar
    James :^)\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-18 14:50:06'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Hilarious. :^D
  created: '2008-01-18 16:41:25'
- author:
    name: nora g
    picture: 113099
  body: '... but consider the consequences ... this stickers may overtake the visual
    presence of helvetica in public space ;-)'
  created: '2008-01-18 16:52:48'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: "great except for:\r\n\r\nthe inch glyph is NOT a speech mark\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-18 16:58:13'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Yep someone should do a version in American English - at least there's no
    "consider using a bespoke typefount" ;-)
  created: '2008-01-18 17:02:52'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: It's not his fault he speaks proper English and the Americans don't. :^D :^P
    ;^)
  created: '2008-01-18 18:21:14'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: I bet you are against nucular energy as well.
  created: '2008-01-18 18:27:52'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Yow there D.P.: your logo is ugly and backward-looking. Real police don't
    use red and white in tihs century. The ' glyph is not inch or inches. And if I
    had the time to put one big sticker over the whole thing, it'd read: \"snot-nosed,
    typographically-tight-sphinctered, subjectivity-riddled, goose-stepping nags get
    nowhere on these issues with the people they are trying to 'help.'\" But, I think
    that is not their goal which seems trictly to show what \"great designers\" people
    should think they are. Who are they again? ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n "
  created: '2008-01-18 19:13:50'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: DB, that made my day. I needed a good laugh.
  created: '2008-01-18 20:40:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: When bad is the new good, it's hard to tell whether this is supposed to be
    chuckling at the dimwits who can't do proper typography, or sending up the dimwits
    who wax intelligently about typography while being too inept to use anything but
    Helvetica. Irony keeps your arse covered--it's the wanker's best friend.
  created: '2008-01-18 22:18:44'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: These would make for a great Typecon event. Just have everyone pile examples
    of the work on a table early in the day, and give everybody a set of stickers.
    Then everyone takes turns marking up the work.
  created: '2008-01-18 22:22:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Irony keeps your arse covered\u2014it\u2019s the wanker\u2019s best friend.\r\n\r\nWarning
    from the Metaphor Police: do not, repeat, do not try to picture that mixed metaphor
    :) \r\n"
  created: '2008-01-18 22:24:43'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "The stickers are mildly amusing for a small audience. The wordings could
    have been more extreme, and funnier It's a thing good ideas can't be copyrighted.\r\n\r\nThis
    type has been bastardised > This type has been sodomised > Sodomy victim\r\n\r\nConsult
    a typographer > Consult a tight-sphinctered typographer\r\n\r\nKern this! > Kern
    it wanker! > Kern it, you stupid wanker!\r\n\r\nLegible from space (ha-ha, maybe
    they've been reading me) > Gap visible from low earth orbit > River visible from
    Mars.\r\n\r\nDo not use faux bold > Faux bold is for morons. Ha!\r\n\r\nDo not
    use faux italic > Phoney italic. Are we talking to a ghost on the wall on a windy
    day or what's the deal?\r\n\r\nClich\xE9d type effect > Cheese sandwich. Rebuild
    it, mag wheels!\r\n\r\nImitation small caps > Bogus smallcaps. Avoid!\r\n\r\nDesign
    clich\xE9 > Design clich\xE9 disaster > Laughable quasi-hip design\r\n\r\nPoorly
    cut typeface > Laughable quasi-butch aldine\r\n\r\nTurn off hyphenation > Turn
    off the hyphenation, you dickhead > Turn it off the hyphenation, Bugsy\r\n\r\nUse
    faux italic one more time and you're in the running for Worst Typesetter of the
    Century, my friend.\r\n\r\nComic Sans is illegal > Comic Sans is a \"disagreeably
    facetious typeface\". Do you a) Agree, b) Strongly agree, c) Super-strongly agree.\r\n\r\nThis
    has no personality > Oh this is wankshaft\r\n\r\nMicrosoft Word is not a design
    tool > Microsoft Word is a wanking machine\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-19 02:40:40'
- author:
    name: TomN-CA
    picture: 112736
  body: "Now, maybe I'm wrong, but the font used for the stickers looks like Helvetica.
    Which makes the \"Helvetica was an unimaginative choice >\" sticker amusing.\r\n\r\nIf
    I'm right maybe I'll email them a picture of the stickers with a bigger helvetica
    sticker over top!"
  created: '2008-01-21 01:41:01'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "@ Mr. Berlow. Too true.\r\n\r\nI did enjoy the lipstick icon inside the police
    light.\r\n\r\nAnd, James, you've hit your quota for the w word for 2008. No need
    to get so nasty."
  created: '2008-01-22 08:24:23'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Hey, how cum none of James' w-words got censored by the automated Typophile
    Censoring Thingamabob? Fuck that! :^D
  created: '2008-01-22 08:53:23'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Yup, it still works... B^)
  created: '2008-01-22 08:53:46'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "You made my morning - these are hysterical.\r\n\r\nThis does not communicate
    - but it does oh. so well....\r\nNo matter the English.\r\n\r\nAnd it makes me
    sorry that so many of my comrade typesetters are 6 feet under and can't enjoy
    it too!"
  created: '2008-01-22 12:20:08'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Joe -- I am sorry if I wrote things people find offensive or nasty. It was
    intended as verbal \"humor\" only. The w word makes me laff, but clearly it puts
    some people off, so here it stops.\r\n\r\nYves -- gag me with a wooden spoon.
    I don't understand why more asterisks didn't replace the w words.\r\n\r\nj a m
    e s"
  created: '2008-01-22 13:34:43'
- author:
    name: lirmac
    picture: 113262
  body: "> I did enjoy the lipstick icon inside the police light.\r\n\r\nMuch as I
    hate to nitpick, I think the police siren is supposed to resemble a chisel-tip
    felt pen, rather than a lipstick \u2013 an homage to the analogue days of design!"
  created: '2008-01-22 17:05:42'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "No worries James. The half dozen references in this single thread was just
    too much...\r\n\r\nFelt pen? Ah! Now I see it."
  created: '2008-01-22 17:58:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I saw the felt marker right away but then again, I am older than dirt :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-22 18:10:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I give up, what is the w word?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-22 18:11:53'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: 'Oh Chris - I don''t want to call you a wanker - honest I don''t.... '
  created: '2008-01-22 19:57:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I guess I will have to visit the Urban Dictionary just to find out what that
    means :-/\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-22 20:02:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Having just visited said site and perusing the many definitions written there,
    I find the following one, by \"Pommydave\" my \"hands down\" favorite:\r\n\r\n>>>\"2.\twanker\t\r\n\t\t\r\nGeorge
    W Bush.\r\nWankers can't be trusted with their own dicks let alone anyone elses.\"<<<\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-22 20:12:42'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Oh Chris - I don\u2019t want to call you a wanker - honest I don\u2019t....</em>\r\n\r\nBy
    contrast Chris is a winker ;^) Pretty sure of that :^)\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-23 00:05:51'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'I thought it was funny. And I thought of many many signs I might have used
    them on - at for instance my Gym. But using this stuff would make you into a high
    schooler again. It has the cruelty of children in it. So I can''t. '
  created: '2008-01-23 00:29:27'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: If anyone's interested -- I interviewed the Design Police for <a href="http://www.fontshop.be/details.php?entry=263">Unzipped</a>.
  created: '2008-01-24 01:40:42'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Thanks for the link Yves. '
  created: '2008-01-24 02:35:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Yep! In their own words :\"It\u2019s more about an in-joke\", in other words,\r\nWe
    didn't do this to make people feel bad about their bad design, (a constructive
    course),\r\nwe did this to make people feel good about other people's bad design,
    (a destructive course).\r\nFine as an \"in joke\", where they probably would have
    kept it, (if not for the publicity). \r\n\r\nCheers! :)"
  created: '2008-01-24 19:17:50'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'Wasn''t this the job of editors. Didn''t they make all those little marks
    on your manuscripts. What, Art Directors need to do the editing job as well? Cute
    but a bad idea. Seperation of Church and State, Art Directors look at the visual
    big picture and let the editors look at the minutia.  '
  created: '2008-01-24 22:20:00'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: ">>  Art Directors look at the visual big picture and let the editors look
    at the minutia.\r\n\r\nSorry, but this is no longer valid. Editing and proofreading
    are fast disappearing. Everywhere. From major university presses to ad agencies
    to newspapers to . . . you name it.\r\n\r\nWe need all the eyes we can get on
    matter set in type. Including ADs' eyes and designers' eyes and typesetters' eyes.
    But do only the most obvious corrections yourself. Query all others on proofs
    and make sure you get answers from them what wrote the stuff in the first place.
    \r\n\r\nYou are all hereby deputized into the \"Word Police\" force. Go forth
    and do good work.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2008-01-25 14:58:16'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: But Will I spell like an Art Director having me proof read is a terrible waste
    of the clients time and money. Its about your resources in the best most efficient
    manor. If I was an auto mechanic I wouldn't do the plumbing in my house. The Plumber
    would do a better job quicker.
  created: '2008-01-25 20:46:27'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "> <em>Fine as an \u201Cin joke\u201D, where they probably would have kept
    it, (if not for the publicity).</em>\r\n\r\nTo set the record straight, I lured
    them out. :^P\r\n\r\nAs for \"making people feel good about other people\u2019s
    bad design\", I really don't get your point.\r\n\r\nI printed out the Visual Enforcement
    Kit, passed it around in the studio and we all had a good laugh. I didn't apply
    any sticker on anybody else's work and prolly never will. The thought never even
    crossed my mind. I think \u2013 no, I'm convinced \u2013 that's what most people
    will do, and that's how it should be. Why always assume the worst?\r\n\r\nPlease
    don't shoot the messenger; the Design Police are merely commenting on the state
    of a lot of current graphic design. I don't believe them to be inherently evil.
    ;^)\r\n\r\nPersonally I feel that the pride I put in my work entitles me to be
    disheartened when I see sloppy, lazy typography. And I will accept criticism whenever
    I blunder. Humour is a healthy way to deal with these feelings. The day we won't
    be allowed to poke fun anymore at something that irks us will be a sad day indeed.\r\n\r\nPeace."
  created: '2008-01-25 21:19:11'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Yves, if you felt bashed by me I am sorry. I enjoyed looking at it too. \r\n\r\nIt
    sounds like our sense of this isn't so different in fact. Cheers!"
  created: '2008-01-25 21:24:36'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Naw, Eben, don't sweat it. I really don't feel bashed. I'm just disappointed
    by some of the negative reactions, on NotCot and MetaFilter as well, because I
    really appreciate this project. Some of those people commenting sound <em>so</em>
    incredibly bitter (not you, David! ;)
  created: '2008-01-25 21:29:47'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I enjoyed your interview and was pleased to see that they saw the DP effort
    as mostly a joke (the best jokes of this kind always have a small element of seriousness)
    - contrast this with the bancomicsans folks - things got weird when the protagonists
    started to take the joke seriously.   '
  created: '2008-01-25 21:34:11'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Actually I agree with your \"cruelty of children\" remark, which is one of
    the reasons why I never will use these stickers (except maybe to poke fun at a
    colleague or a good friend, someone who knows me well). I think that people that
    would actually use those stickers would probably use a marker pen or something
    else if they weren't around. It's not like the stickers will inspire reasonable
    people to behave like petty hooligans. :^P\r\n\r\nIt's like when they tried to
    blame Marylin Manson for the Columbine massacre. Backwards thinking."
  created: '2008-01-25 21:36:57'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: "I agree with Yves \u2014 I printed it myself and pasted it on a door in my
    classroom for my students to see, and we all had a good CONSTRUCTIVE laugh. I
    write \"constructive\" because it has reminded them of all the little things (inch
    glyphs used as apostrophes, faux italic, etc.) I keep bugging them with every
    week, and they realised I'm just not the only nitpicker out there. So they agreed
    to let it pasted on the door as some kind of ironic \"check-list\" to look at
    before spending the school's budget in useless (and premature) printouts.\r\nAnd
    I love the \"fire extinguisher\" look, with this awful lot of white Helvetica
    on red background."
  created: '2008-01-25 21:38:46'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>But Will I spell like an Art Director having me proof read is a terrible
    waste of the clients time and money. Its about your resources in the best most
    efficient manor. If I was an auto mechanic I wouldn\u2019t do the plumbing in
    my house. The Plumber would do a better job quicker.</cite>\r\n\r\nInsert comma
    after Will, period after Director. Capitalize the H in have. Apostrophe in \"clients\"
    and in \"Its\". Seems like a word is missing before \"your resources\"...manor/Manner?...
    (point taken)\r\n; )\r\n\r\n<cite>You are all hereby deputized into the \u201CWord
    Police\u201D force. Go forth and do good work.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't know. Seems
    like a lot of work."
  created: '2008-01-26 00:32:22'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Seems like a lot of work </cite>\r\n\r\nYes, and there is a reason
    to specialize - to make sure that somebody really has the skills needed and so
    that there is a clear accountability. \"Word Police\"? More like \"Word militia\"
    or \"word Gang\". In the words of Nero Wolfe: Phoooey!"
  created: '2008-01-26 02:48:42'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"To set the record straight, I lured them out. :^P\"\r\n...and it was a
    very nice interview. But that's not the 'publicity' I'm talking about, as they
    were way out before you lured them. \r\n\r\n\"...making people feel good about
    other people\u2019s bad design\u201D, I really don\u2019t get your point.\"\r\nWhat
    point? the part where the stickers are used by people without your sensitivity
    and compassion? or the part where these other people use the stickers, anonymously
    and without corrective education to go along with the stickers? Or when the stickers
    are used to criticize non-typographic, in some cases non-design issues?\r\n\r\n\"Why
    always assume the worst?\" Because in the best case the stickers are never used,
    leading to great-looking white space. Really, totally brilliant white space. \r\n\r\n\"Please
    don\u2019t shoot the messenger; the Design Police are merely commenting on the
    state of a lot of current graphic design. I don\u2019t believe them to be inherently
    evil.\"\r\nI don\u2019t believe them to be inherently evil either. I'm not shooting
    the messenger, the messenger's messenger or the messenger's gun. That leaves the
    bullets...many of which, in this silly case, are not even targeted at the graphic
    design, are they now...\r\n\r\n\"Humor is a healthy way to deal with these feelings.\"
    LOL. There you go. I, \"poke fun [] at something that irks us\", therefore, I
    am. Or are you one of those typographic totalitarians who don't believe in design
    police police? ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-26 13:14:12'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "> <em>What point? the part where the stickers are used by people without
    your sensitivity and compassion? or the part where these other people use the
    stickers, anonymously and without corrective education to go along with the stickers?
    Or when the stickers are used to criticize non-typographic, in some cases non-design
    issues?</em>\r\n\r\nPoint made, I agree. But I really don't think it's the stickers
    that are going to have people cross over to the Dark Side. I can play all the
    ultraviolent video games I want (which I don't, incidentally, just for the sake
    of the argument) and I still won't buy a gun and start shooting people in the
    streets. But you are right.\r\n\r\n> <em>That leaves the bullets...many of which,
    in this silly case, are not even targeted at the graphic design, are they now...</em>\r\nAgain,
    point made, but with the same reservations as above.\r\n\r\n> <em>Or are you one
    of those typographic totalitarians who don\u2019t believe in design police police?</em>\r\nI
    believe in policing the police as a general concept, so I can't bring anything
    against that, but I think I'm hardly a \"typographic totalitarian\". Let's maybe
    ask some people who know me, I might misjudge myself completely. :D"
  created: '2008-01-26 23:15:13'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Let\u2019s maybe ask some people who know me, I might misjudge myself
    completely. </cite>\r\n\r\nYves, Point nicely and subtly made. \r\n\r\nDavid,
    You are not really accusing David of being a \"typographic totalitarian\". You
    are, I think, just using a rhetorical question to put your point across."
  created: '2008-01-26 23:38:04'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: 'I''m wondering how many commentators here are actually missing the point
    of the joke : I don''t think these stickers are meant to be used at all by anyone,
    really. I take them for a shot at precisely the people who are all too often prone
    to dogmatic tight-sphinctered comments about other people''s work, as if to say
    "Now if you are so smart, and so wise, and obsessive enough to try to eradicate
    all typographic errors in the world, here are the tools to do it. Bet you are
    pretentious enough to use them, you jerk !"'
  created: '2008-01-27 11:22:20'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Celeste speaks volumes. I agree.
  created: '2008-01-28 18:02:52'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I can play all the ultraviolent video games I want...\"\r\nYou sure can.
    But you can't drag me in and shoot at me without my cooperation now, or can you?\r\n\r\n\"I
    don\u2019t think these stickers are meant to be used at all by anyone, really.\"\r\nReally!?
    In the repeating row of \"Kern This!\" stickers, is the first \"Kern This!\" sticker
    more or less 'funny/educational' than the eighth, \"Kern This!\" sticker? If one
    were not supposed use them, then one would need but one of each, Sherlock.\r\n\r\n\"I
    take them for a shot at precisely the people who are all too often prone to dogmatic
    tight-sphinctered comments about other people\u2019s work,\"\r\n...then print
    the definition and remedy for each boo-boo on the back of the sticker, or somewhere
    in site. I'm sorry, I don't need help to draw a line between 'Let it BE', and
    'Let it B.S.' But I'll try to do better ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-29 12:17:21'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: "\"In the repeating row of \u201CKern This!\u201D stickers, is the first \u201CKern
    This!\u201D sticker more or less \u2019funny/educational\u2019 than the eighth,
    \u201CKern This!\u201D sticker? If one were not supposed use them, then one would
    need but one of each, Sherlock.\"\r\nSorry, Mr Berlow, but I disagree with you
    again on this one \u2014 I think the repetition of certain instructions is definitely
    part of the joke : \"Kern This!\" is precisely the kind of comment a tight-sphinctered
    typographer would make AGAIN AND AGAIN (we are all a bit obsessed by that, aren't
    we ?). \r\nI tend to think you're strenghtening my point, here."
  created: '2008-01-30 10:43:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"\u201CKern This!\u201D is precisely the kind of comment a tight-sphinctered
    typographer would make AGAIN AND AGAIN\"\r\n\r\nPerhaps a tight-sphinctered typographer
    who's already inserted his head up the anatomy in question would repeatedly shout,
    \"Kern this!\", and think it was funny, over , and over, again... But, the tight-sphinctered
    typographer with his head bent on typographic improvement says, \"Kern this 2
    units tighter\", or  \"Kern this 2 units looser\", sticker, or not. See the difference?
    Really, I'm not trying to strenghten your point for the time when it'll be an
    easier insertion for you. If you don't believe me, go ahead and repeatedly shout,
    just the \"Kern this!\" sticker, at a bunch of student projects. My guess is,
    they won't even laugh a little, the first time. :-o\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-01-30 12:51:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I would comment on this but then that would be an ode on a Grecian kern :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-30 16:30:04'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "David, I think that St\xE9phane's point is that finding objectionable kerning
    will happen more often as you look over designs than the others so it's natural
    that there should be more of them and that you would locate them on a page together.
    Not as you have it that you would either use ( or shout ) kern this repeatedly
    one after another.... Still, as you have no doubt deduced I could not condone
    use except among consenting adults."
  created: '2008-01-30 17:09:19'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: "I'm afraid my command of written English fails me here : in my opinion, these
    so-called stickers are obviously not meant to be used at all, even for fun. The
    joke (of Monty Pythonesque proportion, I would dare to say) here is the SUPPOSITION
    that they simply COULD exist \u2014 and that there would be morons to use them.
    Not a sane mind would even THINK about using them \u2014 so they are a way to
    poke fun at typographic ayatollahs, which implies a healthy dose of caricature
    (hence the multiple \"Kern this!\" provided on this FICTITIOUS \"toolbox\").\r\nI'm
    a teacher myself and I wouldn't use this stuff on my students' work \u2014 but,
    as already told, I shared the joke with them and they did find the whole thing
    ludicrous AND funny."
  created: '2008-01-30 22:48:45'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "The surest way to kill a joke is to analyse it, I suppose.\r\n\r\nStill,
    I work in production, not design, and I get to look at author manuscripts and
    then (fingers crossed) improved typeset copy all day (and just occasionally I'm
    able to nudge dodgy usage in a better direction, as in \"please do not break \u2018analysis'
    after the \u2018l'\" or \"please do not add hyphens to this URL at a line break\"),
    and I got a chuckle from this & forwarded it to my colleagues. Of course we wouldn't
    dream of <em>actually</em> using it, but the fun is in imagining using it: and
    therefore the supposition is that there's such a lot of poor or non-existent kerning
    about that you'd need a lot of stickers for that. (Hey, it got my boss to look
    up \u2018kern'!)\r\n\r\n\r\nEver since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's
    stopped working."
  created: '2008-01-31 11:16:46'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: So you had a build-up of spam blocking your pipes? Not fun. :-( Our moderators
    should be able to fix that problem.
  created: '2009-09-27 14:21:39'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Good laugh. Thanks.\r\n\r\n[[http://typophile.com/node/58525 |Funny type
    jokes]]."
  created: '2009-09-27 17:36:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DezType-police_4647.png]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-09-27 18:15:39'
date: '2008-01-18 08:09:34'
node_type: forum
title: You've  been cited by the Design Police!

---
