---
author:
  name: russellm
  picture: 111614
body: "I use <a href=http://picasaweb.google.com/russ.mcg/SignsFoundGraphicsAndType>Picasa</a>
  to host images.\r\n\r\nAll the cool kids and designers seem to use Flickr. Is there
  any particular advantage I'm missing? Any compelling reason I should use Flickr
  instead of Picasa? \r\n\r\n\r\n.... Aside from being cool, I mean. "
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: It works better.
  created: '2008-01-18 22:36:56'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "How so?\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-01-18 23:11:11'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: The interface, for one, is much more organized and straight-forward.
  created: '2008-01-18 23:13:07'
- author:
    name: smongey
  body: It's also an incredible pain having to sign up for a yahoo email account just
    because you want a flickr account. I can honestly say that my yahoo email account
    will never see the light of day!
  created: '2008-01-19 01:23:24'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "Five minutes of extra sign up time?! Say it ain't so!\r\n\r\nThe number one
    reason to use flickr is that everyone uses it. Great way to make contacts and
    meet interesting people."
  created: '2008-01-19 03:26:23'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "A) everyone else is doing it\r\n2) no one will know\r\niii) just a little
    won't hurt\r\n4) er, um, sorry, wrong answers..."
  created: '2008-01-19 03:30:45'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: I heard if you smoke flickr without a filter it works better....
  created: '2008-01-19 03:34:18'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Real links instead of JavaScript pseudolinks, meaning every photo has a permalink.
    Tags, sets, collections. You can upload by E-mail or any number of other methods.\r\n\r\nCertain
    tasks are unreasonably difficult on Flickr, but most tasks aren\u2019t.\r\n\r\n\u2014
    \ \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2008-01-19 13:32:09'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I don't necessarily buy the \"more organized interface\" theory... I think
    that can be pretty subjective. Picasa seemed more straight forward and easier
    to figure out than Flickr, though I haven't really spent enough time with Flickr
    to honestly compare. \r\n\r\nthe pseudo JavaScript link thing, and uploading via
    email for Flickr I wasn't aware of. \r\n\r\nOK, I'm sold.\r\n(sign... I got a
    heck of a lot of crap to move over from the Dark Side)\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-01-19 23:18:21'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "<em>(sign... I got a heck of a lot of crap to move over from the Dark Side)</em>\r\n\r\nPfft.
    \r\nAdd my as a friend on flickr!\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/13659176@N00/"
  created: '2008-01-19 23:47:32'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "The API is also pretty awesome. If you have a Wordpress blog, for instance,
    you can use a  plugin to automatically use Flickr as a database of your images
    if you want to create a photo gallery. That's what I have on my page [[http://dangayle.com/photos|Photos]].\r\n\r\nAt
    my school's newspaper, we use Flickr to manage all photo content that is going
    to be published. Editors can comment on which ones they like best, etc., for selection
    for print. THEN, as an added benefit, our Webmaster can then hotlink to Flickr
    so that readers can look at higher-res versions and also to comment.\r\n\r\nIt's
    a win-win-win situation."
  created: '2008-01-20 00:03:47'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "http://www.flickr.com/photos/dangayle/\r\n+HaleyFiege"
  created: '2008-01-20 00:12:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Add yourself to the Typophile group there and find all 554 of us :-)\r\n\r\nhttp://flickr.com/groups/typophile/\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-20 02:11:21'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I'm http://www.flickr.com/photos/ramcg/\r\n\r\n& its and 555 now\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-01-20 05:10:51'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "I found Flickr makes it unbelievably easy to set up your page. I had one
    in a few minutes.\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/fontplaydotcom/\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-20 05:30:23'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Dennis, you allow others to use your photos, why  not use the Creative Commons
    license on your pics?
  created: '2008-01-20 06:14:13'
- author:
    name: somol
    picture: 113622
  body: "With so many typohiles to advertise their flickr accounts ... I can't resist
    adding my bit. Sorry :)\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/pet_r\r\nP.S. I would
    describe flickr simply as more mature than picasa."
  created: '2008-01-20 09:53:27'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>Dennis, you allow others to use your photos, why not use the Creative
    Commons license on your pics?</cite>\r\n\r\nBecause my terms of use are more liberal
    than they allow for. I couldn't find a level that matched up with my terms which
    are basically:\r\n\r\nThese are free photos that may be used by anyone for any
    artistic endeavor,\r\npersonal or commercial without having to give credit or
    a link etc. Use these\r\nimages at your own risk.\r\n\r\nI have some more CYA
    wording on a gobbledegook page, but that's about it.\r\n\r\nThe page originally
    came about because I had a hard time being organized, and couldn't remember where
    I had got things. I have a system now, but at the time, I thought it would be
    nice if there was a site with less restrictions."
  created: '2008-01-20 15:28:37'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>With so many typohiles to advertise their flickr accounts ... I can\u2019t
    resist adding my bit. Sorry :)</em>\r\n\r\nAgreed ;)\r\n\r\nhttp://flickr.com/photos/11494488@N05/\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-20 18:12:40'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: 'Friend of mine with a dial-up account (they live in a rural area with no
    high-speed availability) uses Picasa -- Flickr really wants a high-speed connection:
    that''s the only real benefit to Picasa that I''ve figured out.'
  created: '2008-01-20 18:28:21'
- author:
    name: Zennie
    picture: 112349
  body: "Another great thing about Flickr is you can use the Flock (http://www.flock.com/)
    browser to very easily upload images from any location and then you can display
    your images in a media bar across the top of you browser.\r\n\r\nTypophiles might
    be interested in some of my photo sets:\r\n\r\nA trip to the Design Museum in
    London - http://www.flickr.com/photos/19994738@N08/sets/72157603407923000/\r\n\r\nStreet
    Art and Stencil images\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/19994738@N08/sets/72157603267562100/"
  created: '2008-01-21 01:42:50'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Picasa is to Flickr as Windows 3.1 is to Macintosh OS 6. It's Google's attempt
    to catch up to Yahoo's Flickr (which Yahoo bought because they were smart). In
    a few years Picasa might be something, but it has neither the tools nor the critical
    mass to make it great.\r\n\r\nBy the way, Dan, I thought if I saw your Flickr
    stream that I might have a chance at figuring out what your avatar/icon image
    is. No luck. Is it a mold sample in close up? A smashed puppet? Help. =)\r\n\r\nMine:
    http://www.flickr.com/photos/joepemberton/\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-21 15:33:56'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Forgot to share: http://www.flickr.com/photos/typegirl'
  created: '2008-01-21 19:48:44'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@Joe\r\n\r\nWhy, I disclosed the full details in a blog post [[http://typophile.com/node/40086|HERE]].\r\n\r\nWhat
    did you think about the rest of the photography?"
  created: '2008-01-21 20:35:56'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Haha. I like your photography a lot... especially some of your black and white
    band pics. Nice. I'm sorry about those bad things I said about your avatar.
  created: '2008-01-21 21:24:58'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "I should mention RSS feeds for everything, including comments on your photos
    and comments you\u2019ve left on other photos.\r\n\r\nToo much Arial if you don\u2019t
    have Helvetica on your system, though.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2008-01-21 23:12:46'
- author:
    name: dylan
    picture: 128368
  body: "Here's my pile of Flickr pixels:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/dylster/\r\n\r\nMostly
    photos, a few random sketches (a few with type!).\r\n\r\nD\r\n\r\n_________________\r\nBuild
    a man a fire, and he'll be warm for a day.\r\nSet a man on fire, and he'll be
    warm for the rest of his life."
  created: '2008-01-22 14:36:25'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\".... Aside from being cool, I mean.\"\r\nCool? stumb'lin around in the
    unedited photo offerings of a billion people, surrounded by ugly ads, poor page
    layout and a numbingly cold amount of white space will never, ever, IMHO, be cool.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-01-22 15:03:08'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Cold hearted.
  created: '2008-01-22 15:39:08'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Aw, c'mon David -- tell us how you really feel....  ;-)\r\n\r\n(And, as a
    couple of people have pointed out to me via email, I haven't posted the link for
    mine either. http://flickr.com/photos/lasquetipress )"
  created: '2008-01-22 15:56:07'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "\"<em>a numbingly cold amount of white space will never, ever, IMHO, be cool.\r\n</em>\r\n\r\nwhite
    space <em>can so</em> be cool.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/blizard_car_3892.jpg]\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-01-22 17:39:07'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'In reality many of the photos on Flickr are edited in some way or other. '
  created: '2008-01-22 18:08:43'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/49671874_0c918a5392_4666.jpg]\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/93279914@N00/sets/72157594248353724/\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-22 20:22:55'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: David - It sounts like you haven't really given Flickr a chance. Your employees
    love it. I'm sure you can.
  created: '2008-01-22 23:19:45'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Cool? stumb\u2019lin around in the unedited photo offerings of a billion
    people, surrounded by ugly ads, poor page layout and a numbingly cold amount of
    white space will never, ever, IMHO, be cool.</em>\r\n\r\nThese are the features
    that put me off Flickr as well. It may be convenient in the way it functions,
    if the glowing reports are anything to go by, but a thing can be practical and
    lack coolness at the same time. You don't have to be as smart as David to figure
    that out. David is smart nonetheless, and sometimes it takes a person as candid
    as he to buck the mainstream.\r\n\r\nI think David has a good point and all you
    need to do to see it is separate function from form. Anyway, why does David, or
    anybody else for that matter, have to \"love\" Flickr? Who is really cynical here---David
    or his detractors, those pouring on the unstinting praise?\r\n\r\nMillions of
    people can be wrong or misguided.\r\n\r\nThe sheer amount of material at places
    like Flickr and Facebook make them a tedious waste of time for me. I need friends
    and contacts as much as anyone else, but finding them and \"socializing\" on the
    internet is kinda icky and creepy compared to networking in the real world with
    people I can see and poke for real.\r\n\r\nThat's all the sour grapes I got for
    now. Film at eleven ;^)\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-23 04:07:23'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: I love flickr. There's so much to look at, and I like that a lot of it is
    at a more pedestrian level than say travel magazines or science books. I really
    like to inhale content though, and I understand it's not for everyone. My idea
    of a good time is surfing fffound for 2 hours then passing out in a design stuper.
  created: '2008-01-23 05:31:47'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "For me it wasn't flickr itself but the company I wanted to keep ie fellow
    Typophiles and Typecon go-ers. But after a while I did start to like Flickr a
    lot. For one thing the UI while sometimes kooky; does let you do what you want
    with very little fuss and almost more importantly -undo it. So I suppose I think
    it's a very forgiving UI. And if it was cooler it might not be so fast. Really
    it's the photos I am there to see - not the cool site design.\r\n\r\nVince, I
    think the record will show that I am not really a comic sans basher but that Jerk
    Seasoning looks so utterly faux! Maybe not the bets choice this time I think.
    \r\n\r\nOn the other hand this was utterly appropriate:\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/93279914@N00/138412125/in/set-72157594248353724/\r\n\r\nAnd
    this approaches elegance really despite (not because of ) it's comic sans-y-ness\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/93279914@N00/26776837/in/set-72157594248353724/\r\n\r\nBut
    back on topic - this shows why Flickr is fun."
  created: '2008-01-23 05:50:48'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: For me it's not about stumbling around... it's about viewing pics of old high
    school friends you wouldn't otherwise keep in touch with. It's about meeting some
    random Veer employee at TypeCon and discovering he also rides a Ducati cuz you
    found his Flickr stream. It's about staying in touch with someone who moved to
    Austin. And then maybe connecting for a meal at SxSW.
  created: '2008-01-23 07:04:33'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Joe's got it. It's a social resource as much as it is a visual resource.
  created: '2008-01-23 07:55:45'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "mmmm.\r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-01-23 12:15:18'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: It is sort of like Usenet used to be (minus the porn). Whatever thing you
    are into, there is a group based on it.
  created: '2008-01-23 14:33:08'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Wow Dennis, do I sense an air of disappointment? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-23 16:42:16'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "No, I'm good with it as it is.\r\n; )"
  created: '2008-01-23 16:46:01'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "And there are so many other contributions to the Comic Sans pool -- heaven
    knows I find and post a few....  ;-)\r\n\r\n(Friend of mine here just finished
    her 365days -- the last time I looked, almost 1500 people viewed her last photo.
    In many ways, it's a more interesting social phenomenon than Facebook.)"
  created: '2008-01-24 02:57:21'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: On the DVD "The Brooklyn Tabernacle Choir I'm Amazed...Live" I just saw Comic
    Sans on a lesson header at their Learning Center. Even God is using Comic Sans.
  created: '2008-01-24 04:01:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Not God, just God's Church Lady :-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/church_lady_5426.jpg]\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-24 14:19:30'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: Well, as she would say, "Isn't that special."
  created: '2008-01-24 16:17:44'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>I love flickr. There\u2019s so much to look at, and I like that a lot
    of it is at a more pedestrian level than say travel magazines or science books.
    I really like to inhale content though, and I understand it\u2019s not for everyone.
    My idea of a good time is surfing fffound for 2 hours then passing out in a design
    stuper.</em>\r\n\r\n\"Stupor\". I appreciate what you're saying Haley. We're all
    individuals, and I thrive on some of the things you prefer Flickr to. Travel magazines
    bore me. Boosk on art and science fascinate me. That kind of material fires my
    imagination and I draw creative inspiration from it. Looking at tons of images
    clogs up my mind.\r\n\r\nI don't have much use for Flickr, and there isn't room
    or time in my life for it. With so much media making up our lives, mine is already
    full to capacity. Social appointments to keep, friends to visit and entertain---most
    people have them, and for me they come first. The internet comes last.\r\n\r\nFlickr's
    function as a social resource is fine---except it has much more relevance for
    people dwelling on the North American continent than for an Australian. We have
    no Typecon down here. It seems most major players in the type industry are located
    in North America or Europe. I could use Flickr to stay in touch with people working
    in those places. Except I can't pull airline tickets out of my rear end. The upshot
    isn't practical for me.\r\n\r\nAs a way of staying in touch with people Flickr
    is all very well. I already do that by email tho, and it's much more intimate
    that way. I crave intimacy whenever I can get it. The open air exposed public
    nature of the internet puts me off.\r\n\r\nFlickr is wonderful and I don't have
    a problem with it. Flickr duplicates aspects of living already covered by other
    resources and institutions which already serve me.\r\n\r\nBoring.\r\n\r\nj a m
    e s"
  created: '2008-01-27 22:19:39'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Cold hearted.\" \r\nI didn't mean it that way, sorry. \r\n\"For me it\u2019s
    not about stumbling around...\"\r\n...nor is it about posting, by your examples.
    ;)\r\n\"It sounds like you haven\u2019t really given Flickr a chance.\"\r\nOr
    perhaps, the other way around? :)\r\n\r\nSee also, http://typophile.com/node/41275\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-01-28 21:42:07'
- author:
    name: Amulet
    picture: 114136
  body: "I've had several online storage sites/portfolio sites over the years - and
    have abandonned them all for various reasons (limiting uploads, switching to pay-for-use,
    etc). Flikr might be just what I've been looking for.\r\n\r\nDennis - I found
    your site again today after loosing the url. I appreciate the images that you've
    graciously shared. Spent a few hours today working with XenoDream and figuring
    out the best way of adding photographic/textured backgrounds to images (with varying
    degrees of success ...)"
  created: '2008-01-31 15:24:05'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2217435546_232bc9c4c8_5886.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    use it to save America's bad World image.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/93279914@N00/2217435546/"
  created: '2008-01-31 21:57:08'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Good luck with that, Vince.\r\n\r\n\r\n<a href=http://www.flickr.com/photos/stevegarfield/sets/72157594365243320/>Speaking
    of which... Poling Place Photo Project.</a>\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-02-01 14:36:14'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/hectormunoz/]]\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2008-02-02 07:16:24'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>Dennis - I found your site again today after loosing the url. I appreciate
    the images that you\u2019ve graciously shared.<cite>\r\n\r\nMy pleasure. Good
    to see you here. There are lots of pro type designers here, so it is a more educational
    atmosphere than the old hangout.\r\n\r\nA few tips, if you want to check for replies
    you can track your threads from your ID page:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/user/26576\r\n\r\nThen
    any threads you showed an interest in will migrate to the top when anyone posts
    to that page.\r\n\r\nAnd all the most current comments can be tracked using this
    link:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/tracker\r\n\r\nBest wishes from So. Cal.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-03 16:38:31'
date: '2008-01-18 22:12:59'
node_type: forum
title: Reasons to use Flickr ?

---
