---
author:
  name: cuttlefish
  picture: 111881
body: "Agamemnon began as an experiment I did on Fontographer years ago. I revived
  it over a year ago and began discussing it here on Typophile. [[http://typophile.com/node/28862|That
  original thread is here]], but has become long and unwieldy, potentially frightening
  off new critics trying to wade through the history of revisions. I've since moved
  development of this font to FontForge. The ability to edit with Spiro curve technology
  has been invaluable!\r\n\r\nThe font could be categorized as transitional and slab
  serif. The serifs and horizontal strokes are cupped and curved, creating a visual
  texture that should maintain legibility at small sizes and great distances. The
  current weight, though, is a tad awkward; too heavy for a book weight, but not quite
  a bold.\r\n\r\nOver time I have expanded the character set. Once started with a
  basic MacRoman, I have since expanded it to include most of the Unicode Latin codepages,
  as well as basic Cyrillic, Greek, and Cherokee, plus Latin small caps, tabular oldstyle
  figures, fractions, stylistic alternates, special Icelandic ligatures, and a whole
  lot of currency and miscellaneous symbols.\r\n\r\nAnd the snark, uppercase eszet,
  ruble sign, <em>& al.</em>\r\n\r\nThe PDF files attached here are all development
  version numbered, beginning with version twenty-nine. Earlier revisions are documented
  in the original thread linked above. The most recent one will have the highest number.
  Files with the same number are different settings of the same version."
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Do you have this set in paragraphs anywhere that I can see? \r\n\r\nThe cap
    W is too wide and the lowercase w looks odd too. The two lower points are pointed
    inward."
  created: '2008-01-20 03:19:29'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I've just uploaded <strong>pr-AgamemnonTwentyNine-text.pdf</strong>. It contains
    the demo text output by FontForge at 14 pt. I hope this gives you enough to evaluate
    by. I don't know why there is no upper case used in the Greek passage on page
    4. I'll have to ask George about that.\r\n\r\nThe spacing still needs a lot of
    work throughout. I haven't quite got used to FF's metrics tools."
  created: '2008-01-20 05:24:01'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I don't think I've ever seen a lower case w on which the lower points pointed
    outward rather than inward. Are you saying it should have baseline serifs or something
    like that?\r\n\r\nI'm concerned by the serifs on top of the w, v, and y, since
    they're different from those on the other letters, but I haven't come up with
    a better solution that maintains the peaked and cupped form.\r\n\r\nShould the
    serifs on the Cyrillic miniscules match those of the majiscules or should they
    be similar to those of the Latin lower case, since now they're a mixture and I
    want to make them consistent. They're also the same height as the Latin lower
    case, and they look all right to me but I don't know how that works fro someone
    who can actually read the things.. I've already found I had to go with something
    completely different for the Greek lower case with rounded top serifs."
  created: '2008-01-22 17:51:56'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I don't mean for the lower points (apex?) to point inward. It is a visual
    trick on the eye. Becase the angle is greater on the outer two strokes than the
    inner two it looks as if they are pointing inward.
  created: '2008-01-22 18:06:10'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I found a screwup with the theta (duplicate contour I hadn't noticed before).
    That's corrected.\r\nI'm working on a bold and italic right now. The bold is looking
    pretty good, but I have some big concerns about the italic. I'll make something
    to show off the whole bunch really soon, I promise!"
  created: '2008-01-31 00:50:57'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Here is a quick sample to show what the bold and italic versions of Agamemnon
    look like right now.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Agamamnon30-b1-i1_text_sampler_4585.png]\r\nThere
    is a matching PDF (Agamamnon30-b1-i1_text_sampler_4585.pdf) on top for closer
    inspection, if you like. "
  created: '2008-02-01 20:46:38'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I just realized I mispelled the name of my own font in the filenames. No big
    deal, I guess. They still work.
  created: '2008-02-01 20:49:47'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Does nobody want to talk about this anymore?\r\nI know there is much to be
    done with the kerning. I can tackle that once I figure out what's making FontForge
    crash when I try it. \r\nI really need another pair of eyes to tell me if my bold
    is bold enough, or if my italic is, well, italic enough. Again, I ought to be
    able to tell for myself, but this really is my first attempt at a minimally complete
    family (pending the bold-italic and small cap sets), so I would greatly appreciate
    some nudges in the right direction."
  created: '2008-02-05 04:58:13'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I went and got myself a day job, so my time beating myself on the head with
    this has been reduced. My italic sure does stink on ice, doesn't it?\r\n\r\nAs
    I give it more thought, with a name like Agamemnon, the Greek and Cyrillic should
    be as, if not more, important than the Latin, but I really have at best a sparse
    and insufficient background to go on with them.\r\n\r\nAny more demonstrations
    anyone wants to see?"
  created: '2008-02-15 07:49:56'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: I think your bold needs to be bolder.  I think the Cyrillic is looking good,
    but it's hard for me to give any feedback until it's kerned.   (I'm a novice type
    nerd, so I'm more distracted by the kerning than I ought to be.)
  created: '2008-02-17 04:55:35'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Not bold enough, you say? All right, I'll see what I can do about that. I
    think I might have to shift the x-height up a nudge too to make it a little less
    optically squat.\r\n\r\nAnyone know where I can find a list of Cyrillic kerning
    pairs and/or words?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-19 06:17:23'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: I don't know - I bet if you start a thread in a different forum about Cyrillic
    kerning pairs, that someone who does will take notice.  :)
  created: '2008-02-19 21:07:13'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I'm about to show updated italics. I've done a lot of work polishing up many
    features, including the figures and those trouble children at the end of the alphabet.
    "y" is still being stubborn. The serifs are pretty inconsistent a this point,
    so I'll try to set up a survey  grouping to get your impressions on which works
    best.
  created: '2008-03-12 01:18:54'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I know you're looking for comments on other things, but your the interpunct
    in L\xB7 and l\xB7 is quite large.  I've found that sizing it to be the same as
    a period or an umlaut dot works better.  I think it'd be distracting in a word
    like \xABCol\xB7lecci\xF3 / COL\xB7LECCI\xD3\xBB but give it a try and see how
    it looks.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos
    cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-03-12 01:47:05'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I welcome any comments I can get, especially when it comes to things of which
    I have no firsthand knowledge.\r\n\r\nYou are quite right. Though the Unicode
    manual says that the interpunct in L\xB7 and l\xB7 is to be composed with the
    periodcentered character, that is a bit heavier than the dotaccent in this font.
    The umlaut dot may be even smaller. I'll try some variations and apply that which
    works best in the next revision. I'd rather go with the opinion of someone expert
    in the relevant language than the \"rules\" in a book any day, but being familiar
    primarly with English I'm pretty clueless with what to do with all these diacritics
    and I have to go by whatever information I can get."
  created: '2008-03-12 07:38:41'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Eh, I'm not expert in Catal\xE1n, I've just seen some signs here and there.
    \ \r\n\r\nHere are some samples of dots in a variety of fonts (quite a variety
    in fact).  Each line is lowercase U with umlaut, lowercase I, period, precomposed
    lowercase L with interpunct, a second lowercase L, and then a middle dot (used
    normally for inputting it).  I'm generally of the line of thinking that the two
    Ls should be kerned normally just with a dot in between them.  \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/umlaut_i_period_catalan_double_l_interpunct_6001.png]\r\n\r\nHere's
    an excerpt from a [[http://www.tug.org/TUGboat/Articles/tb16-3/tb48vali.pdf|detailed
    paper]] on the subject of Catalonian typographic conventions:\r\n\r\n<cite>The
    present proposal consists of de\uFB01ning the character as a digraph formed by
    two letters, with a middle dot as diacritic mark. The middle dot has to be located
    between the two letters and equidistant from their stems. In order to facilitate
    reading, the middle dot has to be centered at half the height of uppercase letters.
    This is due to the fact that the digraph only appears between vowels. Moreover,
    between the two letters there has to be the same distance as there is between
    the two letters when they are not written with a middle dot, in order not to break
    continuity of words containing the digraph. There seems to be no de\uFB01nitive
    need for the middle dot to be smaller than a period, contrary to the proposal
    in Mestres (1990). Boldface fonts are the only ones out of 27 standard TEX fonts
    where a smaller middle dot would be, to the author\u2019s taste, aesthetically
    more pleasant. As a matter of fact, most (if not all) old and modern printed representations
    of the digraph share the fact that the middle dot and the period have the same
    size. <cite>\r\n\r\nHowever, he's discussing exclusively TEX fonts, and admitingly
    not in the design field at all.  [[http://femfum.com/PDF/ElaGeminada/LletraDeConvitPerLaElaGeminada.pdf|This
    other fella]] presents far more background and I believe based on my rudimentary
    knowledge of Catalonian actually works as a designer.  I'll try to trudge through
    it more.\r\n\r\nIt may be of note that [[http://wwwa.urv.net/centres/Departaments/fcatalana/TipografiaDeQualitat.pdf|this
    paper]]\_which discusses the ideas of \"quality typography\" (and is a bit easier
    to read than the second article I mentioned) has a l\xB7l with a dot significantly
    smaller than the period.  While he is a not a designer by trade, his article is
    quite well written and could easily be confused with a designer (of course, I
    might just be seeing a different guy with the same name on google, but who knows).\r\n\r\nAlso,
    while I like your bold and italic capital Q, the normal one seems just a little
    too.... Thai-like for me.  \r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que
    apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier
    Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-03-12 22:58:30'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I do have a Q with the common form in the alts of the regular weight. I made
    about four alt Qs in fact. I just couldn't settle on one. Somehow the one with
    the loop and reverse seemed to work here where the reverse without loop worked
    elsewhere. It's worth re\xEBxamining."
  created: '2008-03-13 00:23:28'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "bump\r\n\r\nReally I've been working on this a lot, though not so much over
    about the past month and a half while FontForge refused to acknowledge Spiro,
    but that's fixed with the new update. I still need to resolve this monitor issue
    I have, but I got a brand new used laser printer which should make testing easier
    once a I get it a new drum. It prints the text fine but coats the whole paper
    in a grainy gray where it's supposed to leave it blank. "
  created: '2008-06-18 03:52:12'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I am glad to see you are keeping the Agamemnon fire alive. I still like it's
    voice a lot even though it feels a bit undisciplined set em masse. It's great
    to see it moving more and more text-ward as it were. I am really happy to see
    so many wonky/strange glyphs working so well!
  created: '2008-06-18 04:13:53'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Hm, I was already wondering how many people here were using FontForge rather
    than FontLab...\r\n\r\nCould we set up a survey?\r\n\r\n\r\nSzabolcs"
  created: '2008-06-18 09:35:08'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I'm pretty sure the vast majority of font designers are using FontLab, but
    I'm broke and I needed features that my ancient copy of Fontographer doesn't have.
    It doesn't hurt that FontForge has an active development community that releases
    patches frequently with new features even almost monthly. Much better than waiting
    a decade for an OS compatibility patch that has prices starting at $99, but could
    vary depending on what version you have and what you want to upgrade to.\r\n\r\nA
    software survey is probably better directed to the Build or General Discussions
    forums. I guess it would be interesting to see just how vast the majority is.
    I think there was a sort of a survey like that a while ago, but I don't think
    it quantified much."
  created: '2008-06-18 09:49:04'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Oh, the community is mostly the one-man-developement team, G.W., even minor
    bugs/feature requests are usually just reported and fixed within days by him (seldom
    the patch is posted by the person who discovered it).\r\n\r\nG.W. does an incredible
    job. Most requests (bugs, but also feature request) are met within days. All for
    free.\r\n\r\nSzabolcs"
  created: '2008-06-18 10:52:48'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I've put together a little comparison of three Cherokee fonts:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/screenshot_0268_5210.png]\r\n\r\nThe
    third example is my own design and obviously needs considerable correcting. It
    is difficult to determine exactly what the symbols are supposed to be, and what
    constitutes acceptable variation. I know I got some stuff just plain wrong. Hopefully,
    with some expert advice, I can fix it."
  created: '2008-08-27 02:46:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Plantagenet is very balanced and polished, but Agamemnon looks more non-Latin
    (which I think is central). The interesting question is, how much of that apparent
    functional authenticity is coming from the \"fauve\" finish it has (but that many
    people would want to eventually iron out)?\r\n\r\nBTW, your solution to differentiating
    the two \"R\"-like shapes is great.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-27 03:08:07'
- author:
    name: Ross Mills
  body: "Determining acceptable variation is going to be somewhat of an experimental
    process. As I mentioned in the other thread, knowing what reader's perceptions
    are likely to be is a guessing game until you can find someone familiar with reading
    and writing Cherokee that can provide the sort of feedback that will be helpful.
    In the development stage, its best to analyse what few examples are available,
    keeping in mind that there are very few that would constitute strong typographic
    tradition, so cues also should be taken from the hand drawn models as well. Keep
    in mind that using this methodology does not guarantee that users will like what
    you do, but it is at least a starting point\u2014it may not let you know what
    \"the symbols are supposed to be\", as we don't have much of an evolution of glyph
    form to draw from, so many of the finer details are up to the type designer. Some
    of the more core variations can be seen by looking at the various fonts, as there
    were some changes from the first (1827) to the second (1835) font and then various
    other mutilations occurred generally in the 20th century interpretations, most
    of which are not terribly instructive as to how things should look typographically,
    although they do inform expectations, as these are what people are used to in
    varying degrees. I think that handwritten examples may be more informative then
    many of the modern fonts.\r\n\r\nA historical timeline such as the following is
    useful:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/E_chart_4746.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    think there is something to be said for at least thinking about how to separate
    some forms from their (apparent) Latin counterparts. The environment in which
    Cherokee is learned now is almost certainly different then it was 150+ years ago,
    and I imagine most all learners will already be literate in English and so will
    be biased as to glyph shape\u2014probably less of a hurdle to overcome for young
    students then for older ones.\r\nIn the most basic approach, analyse \"shared\"
    forms: does the \"<em>i</em>\" need to look like the uppercase \"T\"? and what
    can be done to modify it away from that form while maintaining its legibility?
    Of course, the first metal types used an existing \"T\" (smallcap Didot) rather
    then contriving something new. Looking to Sequoyah's first for-print model, he
    drew several wedge-terminals as having open counters, which is a clue to one or
    two alternate approaches, as terminal treatments in Sequoyah's model actually
    have some semantic meaning, rather then just being stylistic goo-gahs.\r\n\r\nFYI,
    the Plantagenet sample above is version 1 from several years ago\u2014many of
    its deficiencies have been or are being addressed for version 2."
  created: '2008-08-28 02:11:07'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Ross, that's a fantastic timeline.  Did you make it just for this thread
    or do you have a book with a table already made?  If it's the latter, could you
    post the whole table?\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas
    nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-08-28 03:38:02'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "That's the troublesome thing about the Cherokee symbols. Many, especially
    the ones apparently derived from the Latin alphabet, are virtually identical to
    each other, distinguished only by the style of the stroke terminals or some ornament
    feature (as seen from a Latin context). The most obvious error I made in that
    regard was placing hook terminals in many places where there should be balls.
    I did notice those triangular wedge serifs on some of the characters in Sequoyah\u2019s
    model. I did exaggerate the serifs in my own font where they appeared, compared
    to similar Latin letters, but I may go even further, perhaps as much as the Cyrillic
    spike descenders (not shown in my current sample, but greatly enlarged in v31).
    I don't know about opening them, though; that might make too much visual clutter,
    at least at small sizes. Could be worthwhile to include in display weights, though."
  created: '2008-08-28 08:44:31'
- author:
    name: Ross Mills
  body: "Matthew,\r\n\r\nThe timeline shown is a mockup I had done which when completed
    may find its way into an article on the history of North American writing systems
    and orthographies\u2014so no, I don\u2019t have a complete chart at the moment,
    just bits and pieces."
  created: '2008-08-29 00:39:07'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Ah okay... Keep us posted, hopefully my university will subscribe to the
    journal, ILL is terrible for articles like that (they often fax and then scan
    and e-mail 1-bit docs ugh).  Though not to pressure you (plus I know some journals
    don't like stuff being posted prior to publishing), when you get the table done
    if you wouldn't mind posting it I think I speak for many in advanced appreciation
    and gratitude.  \r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas
    nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-08-29 06:12:48'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Progress report:\r\n\r\nAmong things I've said before, I'm nearly ready to
    show another progress sample. I'm having a problem getting some of the Greek characters
    to appear properly, notably Delta and mu. I think it's because they are both duplicated
    or referred to at other points in the Unicode space, and something with Mac OSX
    10.4 isn't cooperating somehow.\r\n\r\nAnyway, the Latin section is pretty firmly
    set apart from spacing issues and problems with stacked accents affecting the
    line height. The Cyrillic set is much improved from my previous version, but still
    limited to basic characters and may only be suitable for Russian right now. The
    Greek has significant changes which could make it at least legible, but I don't
    really know. It is quite literally all Greek to me. There are some big changes
    to the Cherokee too, in light of our recent conversations.\r\n\r\nAlso I've made
    a quick and dirty light weight of the basic Latin characters, but that still needs
    tweaking.\r\n\r\nAny preferences on who wants to see what first?"
  created: '2008-09-06 00:32:37'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "> I\u2019m having a problem getting some of the Greek characters to appear
    properly, notably Delta and mu. \r\n\r\nJust try changing the unicode name of
    Delta and mu to uni0394 and uni03BC respectively (right click the letter in fontforge
    and then click \"Glyph info\" and the tab \"Unicode> Unicode Name\")."
  created: '2008-09-06 02:06:49'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: OK, done. Would I have to make similar changes to the unicode names of the
    corresponding math symbols?
  created: '2008-09-06 06:49:44'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: For me it would indeed make more sense to do that  but I think it is not necessary
    for the font to work properly. There is also Omegagreek (0x03A9) that needs to
    be changed to uni03A9.
  created: '2008-09-06 12:59:56'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Here are the changes I made to the Cherokee:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/screenshot_0270_4123.png]\r\nIt's
    spaced a bit tighter and still has no kerning. I may loosen it up a bit. I tried
    to bring the shapes more in line with the original handwritten sample, and also
    to make similar forms more distinct from each other and correct earlier errors
    on my part.\r\n\r\nI'll have the other samples up tomorrow. I have to run now.
    Have fun with this til then."
  created: '2008-09-06 21:39:46'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Here is the Greek bit I've been talking about:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AgamemnonGreek34_5486.png]\r\n\r\nI
    had to make this shot larger than the one for the Cherokee since some details
    didn't show up smaller. I tried to maintain the vertical contrast that the other
    scripts in the font have, but I'm afraid it has made some of the letters appear
    awkward. Rounding the serifs seems to have helped soften the lower case without
    creating too much disharmony, and radical redesigns from previous versions have
    improved legibility, but to what extent I'm not sure."
  created: '2008-09-09 18:27:39'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I like the your descenders on \u03B6, \u03BE, and \u03C2.  Fits the font
    perfectly.\r\n\r\nThere are only a few things that really stick out to me is that
    the \u03A9 seems a bit thin compared to the other caps even though I could swear
    it has the same weight as the O.  Maybe make it a bit thicker.\r\n\r\nI think
    you did a good job doing vertical contrast, I tried and failed several times to
    do that with greek.  Normally it makes for wider characters, but for Agamemnon,
    it fits perfectly.\r\n\r\nThe \u03C9 seems a little wide but that might just my
    eyes playing tricks on me, when I compare to \u03C6 or \u03C8 it seems the same
    width.\r\n\r\nWhat would your alternate \u03B8 look like?  It's generally a curlier
    design, and might go better with your font, the current one sticks out a bit as
    it looks too regular.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas
    nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-09-09 18:53:36'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Thank you for pointing that out about omega. It actually measures the between
    the widths of phi and psi, but looks overly broad due to the shape. I never even
    knew theta is supposed to have an alternate form. So much research still to do
    (This is very foreign territory for me-- I'm more comfortable with Japanese.)\r\n\r\nIn
    the mean time, here is this:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/screenshot_0272_5395.png]\r\nI
    made the spike descenders much larger and trapezoidal. This feature is also seen
    on some of the Cherokee symbols shown earlier. I also unified the serifs on the
    lowercase and narrowed some of the letters that were analogous in the Latin set.
    Still, I think the lowercase may be too short, so I could make them taller on
    the next run through.\r\n\r\nAlso included are my currency symbols. Try and name
    them all!"
  created: '2008-09-09 22:47:25'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Hey, I'm going through my Greek/Cyrillic designing stage for my font too
    so it's fresh on my mind.  Theta/kappa/pi/omega/rho have alternate versions either
    used as symbols or just differently prefered forms, the theta is open and looksl
    like cursive, the kappa looks more like an x sort of thing, the omega is closed,
    rho has an extra stroke, beta has no descender, etc.  \r\n\r\nAnd let's see, I
    can almost get 'em all without cheating, dollar cent pound generic yen florin
    shilling common-european, um, crona franc lira ...... pesetas reais won dinar
    euro penny .... ruble....\r\n\r\nThe cyrillic looks good.  I agree with the choice
    of darker descenders.  I wonder if maybe on \u043B you might want to pull the
    left leg in a little bit.  Also, the accent on \u0418 seems a bit too far to the
    left.  Or actually that might just be the ` as it's pretty far on the left on
    the E too.  \r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos
    damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-09-09 23:32:29'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "On the acute and grave accents, I think I centered them more toward their
    points over letters than their actual width centers. Sometimes that method works,
    others not so much.\r\n\r\nOr it could be they slid around during spacing because
    they're referenced. I'll have to run through the whole thing and track those buggers
    down.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-09 23:58:53'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Are you using FF's autocreation of accented glyphs?\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro
    es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB.
    (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-09-10 00:06:02'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "<cite>Are you using FF\u2019s autocreation of accented glyphs?</cite>\r\n\r\nYes,
    so it will be easy enough to restore those to their default states. I'm just not
    always satisfied with the results of the auto-assembly. Stacked accents are especially
    a bother, as they distort the line height (at least until I correct the parameters).
    I tightened the line spacing to .7 to get them even this close together."
  created: '2008-09-10 00:30:13'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I really like the way the character of the font has been integrated with
    each of the additional glyph sets you have taken on. I haven't seen every Cherokee,
    not am I any kind of expert but it really looks lovely - and particularly from
    an optical & glyph divergence point of view. Very cool!\r\n\r\nThe only thing
    I keep wondering about is seeing it set & used in more places/ways, because use
    should inform the design. "
  created: '2008-09-10 06:11:34'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I wish I could test it in more and different ways. It's a weak excuse, I
    know, but I'm constrained by my tools. I'm a touch too broke to upgrade my software,
    so the only thing I have to  display the whole font without crashing on Character
    Pallette input is Text Edit. \r\n\r\nAs for its purpose, it's a bit too massive
    for an everyday text font, though it has features that should make it highly readable.
    It's a bit clunky with those wavy slabs.\r\n\r\nThere are not a lot of Cherokee
    fonts out there, as far as I can tell. Many of them are really poorly designed,
    like that \"official\" one I showed above, but are still considered usable by
    those who use them. In my opinion Plantagenet is the most thoughtful and best
    looking example of a Cherokee font I've ever seen, but even Ross Mills concedes
    that it is deficient in its current form. I have done scarcely any research on
    the matter, in comparison, and I consider it high praise that anyone with even
    casual expertise commends my efforts."
  created: '2008-09-10 06:42:52'
- author:
    name: kholvn
  body: "I checked out the new touches to your CWY font. I LIKE IT! It's really a
    clear departure from the same old same old. In fact, I believe that learners of
    the language would probably have an easier time in learning this font because
    it's different and dynamic.\r\n\r\nI believe I mentioned that I'm a teacher of
    our language and I'll be teaching two more classes starting next month. I teach
    Cherokee for the Cherokee Nation and the United Keetoowah Band of Cherokees.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    I'm not sure what kind of expertise I have in the work that you are doing in creating
    fonts but I have been reading and writing in the language most of my life and
    I've seen alot of different ways of making the symbols in the system. So what
    you are doing is okay by me. Though I'm no spokesperson for either tribe. However,
    I am a sixth generation descendent of the original Sequoyah and I believe he would
    like what you are trying to do. Keep it up and let me know when you are ready
    to show it off a bit. I'll use it in my classes."
  created: '2008-09-10 07:55:36'
- author:
    name: kholvn
  body: "Okay, I'm sorry. The above post was my first reaction to the great work you're
    doing. But after I really pondered over your latest chart there are a couple of
    things that I should mention. Nothing great - just a few observations.\r\n\r\n1
    - the first symbol should be down at the last of your chart. (unless you did this
    for a purpose) It's part of the vowels.\r\n\r\n2 - the \"doh\" symbol threw me
    for a second. It's downside up. I'm cool with that but that leads me to the third
    thing.\r\n\r\n3 - The Keetoowah and some elder Cherokees are very traditional
    and though I see nothing wrong with creating a font such as yours, some of the
    people will not go for it because it's so different (which is what I like about
    it). They are very weary of change. It usually takes a while for new things to
    catch on with them. However, at the same time, if they see the young people taking
    to it - the elders will let it slide because the younger generation is accepting
    it. One of the things that's going for your font is the fact that it looks gothic
    (sorry but I just had to say it - but hey! gothic Cherokee, cool). And our young
    people will like that.\r\n\r\nAgain, I like what you're doing. I'd like to see
    it finished."
  created: '2008-09-10 10:23:08'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Thank you, this is exactly the sort of advice I need. As a teacher of the
    language, you necessarily have a deeper technical understanding that even native
    speakers and writers may lack, so I certainly consider you to be an expert. I'll
    give more weight to your opinions than many other peoples research. On to your
    points:\r\n\r\n1. Indeed you are correct, and in checking my materials I understand
    why I did it like that and why you are right.\r\nFor some reason the V (shaped
    like \"i\") appears first in Plantagenet Cherokee when entered from the character
    palette. In Agamemnon, it appears sixth on the character palette, which is still
    incorrect, but that is where it is in the Unicode sequence. At least it appears
    after A (D), E (R with hook), I (T), O (\u13A3), and U (O with horn), which are
    all the open vowels without consonants, so they belong on the same row together.
    For some reason Unicode has them at the beginning, rather than the end, which
    you suggest is correct. A logical argument could be made to put them either at
    the beginning or the end, but I'll go with your advice on the customary position
    when I produce my next sample.\r\n\r\n2.  DO is \"V\" shaped in the official font,
    and I will adjust mine to reflect that in adherence with custom. I gave it the
    \"\u039B\" shape because it appears that way both in the Plantagenet font and
    in this scan of an early sketch of the syllabary attributed to Sequoyah:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Syllabary_6129.JPG]\r\nBut
    doesn't the V shape of DO sometimes lead to confusion with TSE?\r\nI also noticed
    that the \"A\" shaped GO has a vertical stroke on the crossbar in this sample,
    not seen on other examples, but that is why I included it on mine.\r\nI also expect
    my design of YI might be controversial. \r\nDE has confused me, since it is one
    of several \"S\" shaped symbols, which looks just mangled in the official font
    and is distinguished from DU only by a twisted serif and half a line across the
    middle. In my DE I tried to make that cross stroke suggest a reversal, as if a
    \"c\" were drawn above a reversed \"c\" in a single motion, rather than as an
    \"S\". Does this sound reasonable to you?\r\n\r\n\r\n3. I'm not sure what to say
    about this. In the scripts of most languages, there is a lot of room for stylistic
    variation and decoration, but it's generally an issue of aesthetic preference
    unless you go so far with the design as to get something actually \"wrong\". With
    the CWY it's hard to tell what right and wrong even is, so I appreciate the assistance
    you've given me and any more you give in the future. The only connection I have
    with the language is that my parents went to Sequoia High School in Redwood City,
    CA, and the place was most likely named after the tree.\r\n\r\nI'm always cautious
    using the term \"Gothic\" around here. It has at least two nearly opposite meanings
    in typography which have little to do with the architecture, fashion/lifestyle
    trends, or Germanic tribes sharing that name."
  created: '2008-09-10 18:06:43'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: Another thing I notice about the Omega is that it doesn't quite live up to
    the overall personality of the face. I'd suggest making each bend into a squared
    double bend, more 5-like than 2-like... In case I haven't explained it well, fonts
    with this kind of Omega include <A HREF="http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/canadatype/jupiter/">Jupiter</A>
    and <A HREF="http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/clubtype/poseidon/">Poseidon</A>.
  created: '2008-09-10 19:59:09'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Yes, I see what you mean about the Omega now. I'm just afraid if I do that
    either the whole letter will become too narrow, or the top will look fat. Well,
    I'll give it a try and post a comparison in a little bit.
  created: '2008-09-10 20:30:19'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: Thaks Cuttlefish for the image posting tips. I will apply them all.
  created: '2008-09-11 07:54:27'
- author:
    name: kholvn
  body: "I agree that gothic was a wrong choice of words. I should have said it looked
    \"arcane\". Anyway, my point is this: the font you've developed has a progressive
    look that is not only a feast for the eye but it will help promote the learning
    of the language in general. If a writing system is to exist in fifty, a hundred
    years - it will have to evolve just as the spoken language has to change.\r\n\r\nI
    would say keep the DO just as you have it. Although it threw me for a couple of
    seconds, it is (as you pointed out) how it is in the earlier chart.\r\n\r\nIn
    an earlier post, I mentioned that I've read many, many examples of the hand written
    language. And during these readings, you would be amazed at how creative the elders
    were with some of the symbols by putting their own little creative twists to them.
    I remember watching my father practice his hand writing and when he was finished
    - the end results were almost calligraphic. Folks would comment about how pretty
    his writing was.\r\n\r\nAgain, my point is this:  Finish your font. It's different
    and fresh. I, for one (and again, I'm no spokesperson for either tribe), am not
    so closed minded or afraid of change that I would want to stick with the same
    old tired \"Offical\" font. I would use your font, if nothing else than just to
    be different. It's useable and readable."
  created: '2008-09-11 08:03:25'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Web300_AlternateGreekOmega_6338.jpg]\r\n\r\nIn
    view of the raised topic (Omega), I am posting a page with altenate designs of
    Omega."
  created: '2008-09-11 08:04:47'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: "By the way, the Greek typedesigners usually keep width of the oval shape
    of Omega at the same size as the oval of the Latin letter 'O'. There are deviations
    from that of course and we can make the Omega a bit wider, but this happens rarely.
    \r\n\r\nAlso, note that the horizontal bar at the baseline of Omega is always
    the same sroke width as in the letters 'Xi' and 'Sigma'."
  created: '2008-09-11 08:11:52'
- author:
    name: kholvn
  body: "Although the YI might be confused with O, it's still different. But this
    is one of the things I like about your font.\r\n\r\nGa, De and Du are always confusing
    to the novice. But after they really start getting into it they begin to tell
    the difference between the three.\r\n\r\nSo, Quo and Yi are the only ones that
    might be thought of as really different but I don't believe it will cause that
    much trouble.\r\n\r\nAs I said, they are all readable. I can hardly wait until
    you deem your font finished.\r\n\r\nHowever, there is one thing about me that
    you should probably know. I'm sort of a maverick in teaching our language. You
    would think that people around here would all know how to speak in our own language,
    but such is not the case. All three tribes are scrambling to teach the language
    to the younger generation, hence the language classes sponsered by the tribes.
    But where other classes teach reading and writing right off - I've always believed
    that the folks needed to speak first. So that's what I begin with. I teach my
    students how to say words and phrases first before I get them into reading and
    writing. I don't believe other classes do this. They go straight into reading
    and writing. So in this matter, I'm... kinda different from other teachers of
    our language. Which might explain why I look forward to your release of your font.
    I believe the new look will spark a desire in the youth to learn how to use the
    syllabary and ultimately learn their own language."
  created: '2008-09-11 08:41:42'
- author:
    name: sasapetrova
    picture: 115714
  body: Cuttlefish, I have just posted the AlternateDesignOfGreekCharacters.pdf that
    I promised at Semele (previously known as Thetis). I belive that you will find
    it of some interest to you in respect to designing Greek characters.
  created: '2008-09-12 10:17:56'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Someone posted this link in another thread: [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Latin_characters_in_Unicode]]\r\n\r\nThrough
    that I've managed to explore the usage and meaning of some of the more obscure
    characters. There is some weird stuff in there. A lot of obsolete IPA glyphs in
    particular. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-21 20:46:40'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "<cite>A lot of obsolete IPA glyphs in particular.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat in particular
    do you mean? "
  created: '2008-10-24 01:25:25'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "well, there's the db and qp ligatures, a whole bunch with curls and hooks,
    um... darn I'll have to sift through the thing again.\r\n\r\nsuffice it to say,
    at the time I did it, I had just got a hold of the Unicode PDFs and went crazy
    trying to fill in every Latin slot there is, and included a whole bunch of stuff
    that of use to very few people, and some that is of no use to anyone, except perhaps
    for archaic orthographies. Not that there is anything wrong with that.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-24 07:28:38'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: I would agree that IPA is not used by many people, but as a linguist, I don't
    find the glyphs obsolete. I wouldn't expect them in every typeface, but it is
    nice to have choices.
  created: '2008-10-25 01:35:49'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I have not put in many of the IPA characters as listed on its separate Unicode
    range, just those that happened to lie on other Latin pages. Have a look through
    the latest PDF I posted above. (I thought I had more up there. I'll have to replace
    those that I think are missing.)\r\nLet me know if you need any IPA characters
    that aren't included, or if any of the included ones are malformed."
  created: '2008-10-25 09:10:19'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "<cite>I would agree that IPA is not used by many people, but as a linguist,
    I don\u2019t find the glyphs obsolete.</cite>\r\n\r\nThere are obsolete IPA glyphs
    too (glyphs that have now been replaced by different forms, especially at Kiel
    1989) and I think they are in Unicode for backward compatibility with prior 8-bit
    encodings. They should probably be included in any font that has the IPA, though,
    because it may be necessary to set documents created using earlier versions of
    the IPA."
  created: '2008-10-25 13:09:07'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Ack who left a tag open? [edit: apparently me ... but the italic thing is
    recent and that post of mine is ages old]\r\n\r\nThe trick for IPA is making sure
    that you leave combining mark information for every single glyph that can be used
    in IPA.  (I'm going overboard at the moment with Coru\xF1a and including top,
    bottom, top-right, overlay, and cedilla marks for EVERY SINGLE alphabetic character
    and most symbols haha, but that's abnormal).\r\n\r\nI'm going to try to get myself
    a nice document with lots of close IPA transcription that will include the potential
    double or triple diacritics on some of the letters (oh yes, I forgot, you need
    combining marks on your combining marks :) )\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea
    tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz
    Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-10-25 15:08:16'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "<cite>There are obsolete IPA glyphs too (glyphs that have now been replaced
    by different forms, especially at Kiel 1989)</cite>\r\n\r\nOfficially obsolete,
    yes, but linguists just love using all kinds of signs. Not everyone transcribes
    using \"approved\" IPA. "
  created: '2008-10-25 20:22:24'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Some lingering problems: \r\n\r\nI'd like to be able to output a limited
    version of the font, say, containing only the characters designated in the Adobe
    Latin 2 character list. I don't presently know how to do this.\r\n\r\nI also am
    having trouble resolving the linespacing issues resulting from stacked diacritics.\r\n\r\nThese
    are probably better asked on the FontForge users ML, after reading the manual,
    but it's what I'm stuck on for the moment."
  created: '2008-10-25 20:59:34'
- author:
    name: Nymus
    picture: 115962
  body: 'Hi cuttlefish, I like the Agamemnon Greek very much, superb zeta, xi and
    sigma1. Its characters have a distinct and definitely novel look. Have you designed
    the Extended Greek characters by the way?  '
  created: '2008-10-28 18:17:19'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I haven't attempted any Greek extensions. I had a hard enough time getting
    it this far, being totally unfamiliar with that alphabet before making this attempt.
    I'm glad you like what I've done so far.
  created: '2008-10-28 23:54:50'
- author:
    name: nithrandur
  body: "Hi cuttlefish,\r\n\r\nI think you should lower the glyphs with the bended
    lower serifs. If you put those \u2013 for example, lc l \u2014 and a circular
    glyph (which needs to overshoot), then word would look really odd. Maybe try putting
    the apex of the arc of the bended lower serif at the baseline and let its serifs
    overshoot?\r\n\r\nThat aside, I like the figures very much, especially 4.\r\n\r\n\u2013Josef"
  created: '2008-11-02 01:51:23'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: 'The cupped serifs are designed to compensate for the round letters short
    overshoot. I tried making the overshoot greater before and they looked odd. '
  created: '2008-11-02 18:27:13'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite> I also am having trouble resolving the linespacing issues resulting
    from stacked diacritics. </cite>\r\nWhich kind of trouble? I ask because I've
    had to solve myself recently a linespacing issue, and often it's enough to adjust
    the \"Typolinegap\" value, to avoid cutting-offs."
  created: '2008-11-08 21:47:04'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "As far as line spacing, the design rides low on the em, as I've heard it
    put, so it appears small relative to many other fonts set at the same point size,
    but also I find that the main version with the full complement of stacked diacriticals
    (for Vietnamese and Livonian support) the space between the lines is much greater
    than the versions without those glyphs. \r\n\r\n\r\nI really must move my monitor
    so I can thoroughly read my software's documentation without headaches."
  created: '2008-11-09 06:28:07'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Jason, you use FontForge, yeah?\r\n\r\nElement -> Font Info... -> OS/2 ->
    Metrics.\r\n\r\nTake the non-accented file and uncheck \"Is Offset\" by all of
    those fields.  Those are the numbers you'll want to manually input to your accented
    file if you want the accented one to have exactly the same line height (this will
    cause overlap of course with some combinations).\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una
    l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB.
    (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-11-09 06:36:44'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Yes I do use FontForge. Thanks for the tip.
  created: '2008-11-09 08:37:58'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Welcome back! I finally got a new monitor, a beautiful and affordable Acer
    H213H, so all those CRT artifacts I kept griping about are a thing of the past.\r\n\r\nNow,
    on to the revision. I've let this sit a long time, but I finally got around to
    fixing the line height in the manner guifa suggested. I've kind of lost track
    of what else I changed between this and the last one, but I'm sure most of the
    comments were taken into account. Now that the new release of FontForge has the
    print setup bug fixed, I can output its sample directly to PDF (see newest attached
    file \"pr-AgamemnonThirtyFive.pdf\" in the first post). "
  created: '2009-03-05 23:03:57'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Damn, a few months really does bring the bugs to light! I thought I'd just
    be working on the spacing and kerning and tweaking accent positions at this point
    but I'm making some fundamental changes to important glyph shapes like \"a\" again.
    \r\n\r\nI should have version 36 up before too long. In the meantime, let me know
    if you spot any glaring problems in the current sample."
  created: '2009-03-06 17:31:48'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I've sat on this for nearly a year again, haven't I? \r\nI generated the
    36th test version today and will have samples up shortly in the style Hrant recommended
    in [[http://typophile.com/node/66781]]."
  created: '2010-02-02 22:41:00'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "All righty! Finally some progress. [[http://typophile.com/files/agamemnon36-12ptsample.pdf|\"agamemnon36-12ptsample.pdf\"]]
    is up on top. The character set is entered in the order they appear in Unicode.
    I included excerpts from Wikipedia in the four major scripts as well as a section
    in Anglo-Saxon to draw out some of the more exotic Latin characters. This is set
    at 12pt with normal line spacing. It seems I've tackled the growth factor that
    the stacked accents brought in. Somewhere along the line the alignment of some
    accents shifted. That needs to be corrected.\r\n\r\nI made some significant changes
    in the Cherokee glyphs, some of which are sure to be controversial, and I am open
    to changing them back if that's what the language requires.\r\n\r\nI did notice
    a strange phenomenon when entering the combining accents one after another; they
    stacked on top of each other, creating a bit of a smear through the line above
    them. "
  created: '2010-02-03 21:21:40'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Added a PDF regarding the [[http://typophile.com/files/Agamemnon\xDF36%20Cherokee%20de%20comparison.pdf|Cherokee
    syllable \"de\"]]"
  created: '2010-02-03 23:46:28'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: It has come to my attention that there is a free font being circulated by
    the name of PR Agamemnon by Peter Rempel. Since he brought it out to the public
    before I did, I won't dispute his claim to the name, not that anyone could claim
    a historic figure as a trademark anyway. Still, that leaves me with finding a
    new name for this thing. Any suggestions?
  created: '2011-01-14 21:53:23'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: I would stay in the same field. The first paragraph of the Agamemnon article
    on Wikipedia, for example, lists several names of people or places suitable for
    a typeface.
  created: '2011-01-15 12:01:33'
- author:
    name: matt_yow
    picture: 119424
  body: "My vote would be to totally keep the name Agamemnon, its so heavy metal!
    but regrettably, it has been claimed.\r\nriccard0 is right though, that wiki entry
    is absolutely full of possibilities. the genealogy map is a good start."
  created: '2011-02-02 15:32:57'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Aw crud, I've gone and revived the older portion of this thread. Blech. This
    font started out scary looking and has evolved into an entirely different monster.
    Anyway, for the sake of getting it all in one place, here are those screenshots
    of the currency symbols again:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot
    from 2012-09-20 16:43:48_4655.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot
    from 2012-09-20 16:45:23_5277.png]"
  created: '2012-09-21 00:54:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What, no Dram?\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/64976\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-21 01:10:07'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Tragically, I forgot the Dram, not least because it's not in the main Unicode
    currency symbols block. So I just made one, and included it with all the legacy
    encoding currency marks I already had:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot
    from 2012-09-20 17:59:48_5491.png]\r\n\r\nI guess that leaves the Afghani, Rial,
    and Khmer Riel"
  created: '2012-09-21 02:10:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That was fast! But the top-left shouldn't be so droopy - more like a short
    stem.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-21 02:13:06'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Hopefully this dram will look more assertive. I also made some changes to
    the sterling and bhat.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot from
    2012-09-20 20:39:23_4646.png]"
  created: '2012-09-21 04:41:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Funky, but could work.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-21 05:30:20'
date: '2008-01-20 01:29:29'
files:
- filename: pr-AgamemnonTwentyNine-ffd.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/pr-AgamemnonTwentyNine-ffd.pdf
- filename: pr-AgamemnonTwentyNine-text.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/pr-AgamemnonTwentyNine-text.pdf
- filename: Agamamnon30-b1-i1_text_sampler.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Agamamnon30-b1-i1_text_sampler.pdf
- filename: pr-AgamemnonThirtyFive.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/pr-AgamemnonThirtyFive.pdf
- filename: agamemnon36-12ptsample.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/agamemnon36-12ptsample.pdf
- filename: "Agamemnon\xDF36 Cherokee de comparison.pdf"
  uri: "public://old-images/Agamemnon\xDF36 Cherokee de comparison.pdf"
node_type: forum
title: Agamemnon v.36, needs a new name! Help please?

---
