---
author:
  name: Greg Stanton
body: Deleted
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "The last time I really looked into the business side of print on the demand
    the people behind it were planning to put the machines into stores and allow users
    to print off esoterica that the stores do not have room to stock. Hopefully the
    eventual infiltration of print on demand machines into chain bookstores will help
    remedy the problem. B&N already rejects covers its buyers feel aren\u2019t up
    to snuff, so I imagine that if print on demand machines continue to churn out
    the sort of crap you got, they\u2019ll never be more than an internet curiosity."
  created: '2008-01-23 05:22:49'
- author:
    name: Greg Stanton
  body: The cover was actually not bad. It was the guts that were revolting.
  created: '2008-01-23 05:29:35'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Hi, I don't have time to post much right now, but a few months ago (August
    2007) a new company, <a href=\"http://www.ondemandbooks.com/\">On Demand Books</a>,
    set up one of their \"espresso book machines\" at the New York Public Library.
    They had a list of available books and would print one free for anybody who asked
    during the few weeks that they were at the library...\r\n\r\nI was curious, and
    asked for a copy of <em>Flatland</em>. It was a perfect-bound book, but basically
    they downloaded a PDF from an online book-scanning project, and both the interior
    pages and the covers were printed on laser printers. As an added bonus, my book
    had been scanned with funds from Microsoft, so at the foot of each page there
    was a sentence to that effect. And since online book-scanning projects have to
    stick to public-domain material, my edition of <em>Flatland</em> was from the
    late 1800s... The author was still pseudonymous back then!\r\n\r\nYour experience
    sounds especially bad; I can't complain too much about mine... But the caveats
    are: you are dependent on how the book was scanned, and if the edition that was
    scanned is from the 1800s, well, that is what you will get. Not always a good
    thing.\r\n\r\nOne more thing about the demo at the NYPL... The author of <em>The
    Long Tail</em> supports the On Demand Books project, and made his book available
    during the NYPL demo... I didn't get a chance to go back, but I would have liked
    to see how <em>that</em> book, a contemporary edition, would have been printed
    using their technology...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.nypl.org/research/sibl/services/espressobook.html\r\n\r\nhttp://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/02/nyregion/02books.html\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-23 05:40:08'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I don't think your expectations were at all out of line. When the book's
    copyright has lapsed due to age, and the material is in the public domain, the
    only thing a publisher has to offer buyers is good production quality. If they
    do a poor job of that, they are offering no added value to speak of, and should
    be penalized appropriately.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-01-23 09:38:32'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> A few chapter headings were at the bottom of the page preceding the actual
    chapter. Quotes were inch marks. Em dashes and double em dashes (this is Victorian
    lit \u2014 no swearing) were indicated by two hyphens in a row. \r\n\r\nSounds
    remarkably like a Project Gutenburg project book. Two bad you didn't still have
    it, or you could check for typing errors to confirm that (Gutenburg books are
    scanned or typed, and errors will occur. Finding them will determine if the file
    was taken from Gutenburg). If it was, then you could contact those people (you
    might want to anyway, in case they want to check into it). Gutenburg does carry
    a copyright, and if it and all the legal wrangles (about 12 pages of them) that
    they list are deleted, then an infringement has occurred."
  created: '2008-01-23 14:07:59'
- author:
    name: Greg Stanton
  body: "That is good advice re Project Gutenburg. I downloaded a copy and checked
    it out.\r\n\r\nEven Project Gutenburg uses real em dashes! But they do use tick
    marks instead of quotes."
  created: '2008-01-23 16:02:16'
- author:
    name: Greg Stanton
  body: "Oh, I take it back. The plain text version of the book of PG has double hyphens.
    I alerted PG of a possible copyright violation, but since I have not examined
    the text beyond noticing these qualities, I can't really tell if a violation has
    occurred. Maybe they will conduct an investigation themselves.\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-23 19:33:54'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: The PG license states, if I remember correctly, that if you delete *all* references
    to PG, they could care less what you do with the file. It's all-or-nothing.
  created: '2008-01-23 19:58:00'
- author:
    name: valancourt
  body: "I hope you'll forgive what might end up being a long post...\r\n\r\nI operate
    Valancourt Books, essentially a one-person operation, which utilizes print-on-demand
    technology.  Like Zittaw, Valancourt publishes old Gothic novels, although we
    also publish other genres as well.\r\n\r\nMany of your complains are fully justified
    (not a typographical pun).  I have not seen this particular Zittaw publication,
    but I have seen others, and, yes, they are in Times New Roman, obviously published
    from Microsoft Word, with ALL CAPS instead of small caps, half-inch indents, and
    other really ghastly things.  \r\n\r\nFranz of Zittaw Press and I use the same
    printer (Lightning Source), as do many other presses, some of them respectable
    (e.g., Cambridge University Press, Johns Hopkins University Press and many others,
    who keep their old books in print using print-on-demand) and some of them not.
    \ Although most of the print-on-demand crap on Amazon (e.g., Kessinger, Indypublish.com,
    etc.) is either stuff that was cut and pasted from Project Gutenberg with no formatting
    or proofreading, or else facsimile reprints stolen from Google Books (often with
    missing pages), there is nothing inherent in print-on-demand that means print-on-demand
    books must necessarily be crap.\r\n\r\nMy press's books, while perhaps not quite
    to the level of, say, Penguin's, at least evince a general knowledge of typographical
    principles.  They are designed on Adobe InDesign, in a legible font (usually Dante
    MT; sometimes Adobe Caslon Pro), with generous margins and leading, and of course
    proper usage of such niceties as ligatures and small caps (interestingly, many
    major presses now seem to have difficulty with fi and fl ligatures).  Additionally,
    unlike many major publishers (Barnes and Noble, for example), our books are carefully
    proofread by a native speaker of English with two graduate degrees (me), rather
    than somebody in India or the Philippines.\r\n\r\nAs for your complaints about
    the size and binding of the book, you're right -- a 900 page, perfect-bound book
    will fall apart fairly easily.  Unfortunately, to my knowledge, print-on-demand
    currently only offers perfect bound books (or \"casebound\" for hardcovers).  You're
    probably right that the book should have been issued in two volumes, and, in fact,
    one questions the need for a new edition of Varney at all -- 1970s copies of the
    Arno and Dover editions are not that hard to come by, and it is available on Gutenberg
    and in HTML format on some sites.  However, I would contend that print-on-demand,
    although it lends itself to a lot of incompetent and unscrupulous people, still
    serves a very important role.  My press has published books that survive in only
    one or two copies worldwide and offers them in paperback for $13-15 or in hardcover
    for $30-$60 -- less than books by many major presses and certainly less than a
    flight to Oxford or London to consult the sole surviving copy of the book.  The
    books I publish are books that can <i>only</i> be done on demand.  Their copyright
    lapsed decades ago and no one ever reprinted them.  Why?  Because publishers knew
    that they could not sell thousands of copies of them to justify an offset run.
    \ Print on demand is their only chance to see the light of day.\r\n\r\nAs someone
    passionate about Gothic literature and typography and knowledgeable about print-on-demand
    publishing, I would welcome any response or correspondence on any of these topics,
    or other related subjects.\r\n\r\n-- Jay"
  created: '2008-01-24 04:22:13'
- author:
    name: Greg Stanton
  body: "Jay, thank you so much for your comments.\r\n\r\nI completely agree that
    POD books can be wonderful things, especially if the publisher knows what he's
    doing (as you seem to). I especially love that rare stuff, for which there is
    little market, can be made available for people with specialized interests. After
    the shock of the new has worn off, I think the good publishers will flourish,
    and the mediocre ones will vanish (or be marginalized). This happened with \"service
    bureaus\" in the '90s, and I suspect something similar will happen with POD.\r\n\r\nI'd
    like to see, in POD:\r\n\r\n1) Amazon letting the customer know the book is POD.\r\n2)
    The books printed on ivory paper instead of white.\r\n3) A choice for the consumer
    of hardcover or soft.\r\n4) Sample pages displayed online, so the customer knows
    what he is getting.\r\n\r\nBefore OpenType existed, I can understand why publishers
    were reluctant to use ligatures: you would have to change fonts for anything other
    than fi and fl. Now there's no excuse. I think it's only a matter of time before
    the big boys start to catch on.\r\n\r\nBTW, I will check out your books - thanks
    for letting us know about your company.\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-24 04:47:23'
- author:
    name: valancourt
  body: "As far as your four comments, here goes...\r\n\r\n1)  Amazon actually did,
    for about 24 hours one day last year, display \"(Print on Demand)\" on the product
    page where it normally says \"(Paperback)\" or \"(Hardcover)\".  I was furious,
    as was at least one of my editors, and we sent emails asking Amazon to remove
    it.  Unfortunately \"Print on Demand\" is still a fairly negative epithet, and
    it might have destroyed sales of our books, as if Amazon was deliberately signalling
    that our books were somehow of inferior quality.  The fact is, many well-known
    publishers of this type of book (e.g., Penguin, Oxford, Broadview) use perfect
    binding for their books, and many very well known publishers who use offset printing
    (e.g., Palgrave Macmillan, Barnes and Noble, etc.) have very poorly proofread
    books.  One great way that I've found for figuring out if a book is POD or not
    is to search for it on Abebooks.com.  Most of the time, booksellers on there will
    note that it is printed on demand.\r\n\r\n2)  With regard to the paper colour,
    Lightning Source, the printer many publishers use, offers what it calls \"White\"
    and \"Creme\" paper.  For some of our books, I've used white, for some creme.
    \ It's a matter of taste.  Broadview Press, which is very popular in the same
    academic market we target for some of our books, uses white paper, and many readers
    today, accustomed to reading documents printed off on white paper on laser printers,
    seem to prefer it.  Some, like you -- and many others -- prefer a more traditionally
    coloured paper.  Unfortunately, Lightning Source's \"creme\" paper tends toward
    a yellowish colour rather than \"ivory\".  And also unfortunately, Lightning Source
    is the only major POD printer out there.  No one else offers their distribution
    capability (within a week after submitting a new title, books are available for
    order anywhere worldwide), and so POD publishers are fairly stuck with them, at
    least for now.  \r\n\r\n3)  As for the hardcover vs. softcover issue, this is
    up to each publisher.  Each binding (hardcover, softcover, audio, digital download,
    etc.) gets a separate ISBN number, which costs additional money, and each format
    has its advantages and disadvantages.  Lately, I've been issuing books I think
    are more likely to be adopted for university courses in paperback to keep costs
    down for students, and issuing rarer works of more interest to specialists and
    collectors in hardcover.\r\n\r\n4)  Sample pages displayed online would certainly
    be nice.  Unfortunately, Amazon requires publishers to send them copies of each
    book for them to scan and post online.  We presently have about 50 titles in print,
    and the average cost of printing a copy of these is about $5-6; thus to send them
    a copy of all our books to scan would be rather pricey for us.  One wishes that
    Amazon would take the initiative to do it themselves.\r\n\r\nAs for our books,
    I don't claim that they're perfect, although they are constantly improving.  When
    I first began doing this, I sort of assumed it was a no-brainer, but have come
    to learn that one is not born with an innate knowledge of publishing and typography.
    \ Our first few books were set fairly amateurishly -- although still very readably!!!
    -- in an 11pt Sylfaen.  However, I think it's fair to say that with the exception
    of The Snake's Pass, which is set in a really abominable font (Bell MT), all our
    books are very readable and eye-friendly."
  created: '2008-01-24 05:47:00'
- author:
    name: Greg Stanton
  body: "Wow. You give awesome feedback. Ever come to L.A.?\r\n\r\nSeriously though,
    I've been doing design since 1990, and I am still learning new things and refining
    my work. I have to say that InDesign/OpenType sure makes things a lot easier.
    Setting pages takes about 1/3 of the time it used to. Even though I still have
    to check my line breaks, Adobe Paragraph Composer makes good decisions more often
    than not. Also, with OpenType, when the ff, ffi, and ffl ligatures occur at the
    end of a line and need to break, don't cause any problems because the program
    sees them as separate letters, not a single character. And not having to switch
    fonts for oldstyle figures and real small caps is relief. \r\n\r\nFunny you should
    mention Penguins. I always use them as examples of good typesetting. Some of the
    newer editions use wider word-spacing than I would like, but for the most part
    this publisher does good work. Knopf and Norton, of course, are two excellent
    publishers that have the work proofread very carefully \u2014 and they make beautiful
    books.\r\n\r\nI'm going to order one of your books \u2014 is there one in particular
    you would suggest? I'm interested in reading one of the Northanger horrids, mostly
    because I really enjoyed that novel. Or if you think there are better ones, let
    me know. Thanks."
  created: '2008-01-24 06:17:17'
- author:
    name: valancourt
  body: "Well, now I am paranoid about someone who knows more about typography than
    I do looking at the books!  Recently I have become more attuned to InDesign's
    somewhat bizarre hypenation practices and its problems with keep options than
    I was before, so I can't promise these are perfect, but...\r\n\r\nThe Necromancer;
    or, The Tale of the Black Forest, is a relatively inexpensive and eminently readable
    book.  If I could do it over again, I would run the footnotes as endnotes, but
    all in all, I think it's a good edition.  The Midnight Bell is another great Northanger,
    one of my favourite books ever, and has what I think is a very good introduction.
    \ \r\n\r\nAnother really fantastic read is The Witch of Ravensworth.  Unfortunately,
    this is one of the early ones we did on Microsoft Word before switching over to
    InDesign, and in the conversion to PDF, the page numbers got screwed up and thus
    the endnote references are all off by one page each, but if you can look past
    this defect, it's a terrific read.  Everyone I know who's read it has absolutely
    loved it.\r\n\r\nAnother really great book, and fairly representative of our current
    output, is GWM Reynolds's The Necromancer.  I'd welcome any feedback on this one's
    typography or layout.  Although, at 592 pages, there is always the danger of it
    breaking in half if you're not careful while reading it...\r\n\r\nAnd yes, I used
    to come to LA off and on, as my brother lived there, but he's recently moved to
    Boston, so not sure when I'll make it back there again, unless and until there's
    a conference or convention there I can display at...."
  created: '2008-01-24 06:40:41'
- author:
    name: Greg Stanton
  body: "Thanks. I'll get The Necromancer; TTBF and The Midnight Bell. Is the Reynolds
    Necromancer a different book than the former?\r\n\r\nQuestion: If you found an
    error in a book that you just couldn't live with, or if you are unhappy with the
    setting of some of your earlier books, is it possible to submit new files to the
    POD printer? I would think that it wouldn't be a problem to replace the file for
    the guts, as long as the number of pages was roughly the same. Just wondering.\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-24 06:54:07'
- author:
    name: valancourt
  body: "Yep, the first Necromancer, by the pseudonymous \"Peter Teuthold\" was published
    in 1794; the Reynolds book is entirely different -- no similarity at all besides
    the title -- and appeared in 1851-1852 (serialized).\r\n\r\nThe great thing about
    POD, yes, things can be easily changed.  Lightning Source charges $40 to change
    either a cover or an interior.  If there's a stray comma or something, it might
    not be worth paying the $40, but for ghastly errors, it is certainly worth it.
    \ \r\n\r\nFor the oldest books, yes, I'm planning on entirely redoing them and
    releasing them in hardcover.  For example, The Phantom of the Castle (1798) was
    our third book, published 3 years ago, and while there's nothing per se wrong
    with it, the interior looks fairly amateurish.  And the book sells about 15 copies
    a year, which I assume will remain about constant if switched over to hardcover.\r\n\r\nI
    know one of Zittaw's earlier publications, \"Rimualdo\", had a lot of really bizarre
    errors, for example the half-title and title transposed, the title of the book
    misspelled on the title page, and typos like \"prostate\" for \"prostrate\", and
    yet I was shocked that they didn't pay the $40 to correct these and reissue it.
    \ As someone interested in book history and a collector of antiquarian books,
    I strongly agree with the admonition in your Amazon review of Zittaw's Varney.
    \ Even though I know that almost every book being released today has typos (hey,
    I found two in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, which certainly had the budget
    for proofreading), I'm still mortified when I spot one in one of my books...."
  created: '2008-01-24 07:09:46'
- author:
    name: Greg Stanton
  body: "$40 to replace a file on their server is a little steep \u2014\_but it's
    comforting to know you can fix things. I've trained myself to completely ignore
    content at press checks, because taking something off press and re-plating runs
    about $6,000 (hey, as long as someone signed off on it, I shouldn't have to worry;
    I do anyway).\r\n\r\nThe only books I've read that didn't have typos are from
    a set of Dickens published by the Oxford University Press. They've had 100 years
    to proof them, so I'd be really shocked if I found a mistake. I usually find at
    least one typo in most books. I just cringe and press forward.\r\n\r\nWhen the
    books arrive, I'll let you know what I think, if that's what you want. I don't
    claim to be an authority, but my experience is worth something. Otherwise, I'll
    just enjoy reading them.\r\n\r\n'night."
  created: '2008-01-24 07:36:53'
- author:
    name: valancourt
  body: Sure, constructive feedback is always welcome.  It occurred to me that of
    the three books you mentioned, Tale of the Black Forest is on the "creme" paper
    and the other two on white.  You can compare the two and see which you prefer.
  created: '2008-01-24 15:27:18'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "I received a print on demand book from Amazon and it ended mid-chapter mid-sentence.
    It was the collected papers of William Kingdon Clifford and it was published by
    a library press. It was really a scan of the pages up to a certain point where
    it just stopped.\r\n\r\nThe shoddy rubbish that is being passed off by some print-on-demand
    people will ruin it for the others. Amazon will just stop taking it. And when
    that happens it is all over. Perhaps there needs to be a guild or an association
    which certifies the workmanship as saleable. \r\n\r\nJust a suggestion."
  created: '2008-01-27 10:58:11'
date: '2008-01-23 04:47:02'
title: "Print on Demand Books \u2014 Some Thoughts"

---
