---
author:
  name: kentlew
  picture: 110411
body: "A question for those of you who use tabular figures: What characters do you
  need to have on consistent tabular widths?\r\n\r\nNumbers, of course. \r\n\r\nWhat
  about period and comma -- are these important to have on the same width? Generally,
  I would expect them to line up on themselves, so if period and comma were the same
  width as each other, would they need to be the same width as the numbers?\r\n\r\nWhat
  about colon (for times)? Semicolon?\r\n\r\nIs it important to have a space specially
  fitted to the tabular width?\r\n\r\nIs it important (or useful) to have tabular
  fractions? On the same width as the numbers, or is it enough that they all be on
  the same width across fractions? \r\n\r\nArithmetic operators: + \u2013 &times;
  &divide; = &lt; &gt; &plusmn;, etc. ?\r\n\r\nMonetary symbols? Percent? Section
  symbol? Parentheses, braces, and brackets?\r\n\r\nThere seems to be a wide variety
  of implementations among OpenType fonts with the {tnum} feature, so I'd be curious
  to hear from users -- designers who actually make annual reports and financials
  and timetables . . . what else? -- what they expect/need from their tabular figures.\r\n\r\n--
  Kent."
comments:
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: 'Good questions, Kent.  As someone who has done a lot of tabular work on the
    scientific papers in a pretty wide range of subjects, I''d like to see almost
    everything you''ve mentioned above, except for the fractions: I''ve not seen any
    scientific work done with fractions (doesn''t mean it doesn''t happen, but in
    more than twenty years, I''ve not seen any!) so they wouldn''t really matter to
    me. '
  created: '2008-01-22 23:35:11'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Thanks for your thoughts, Linda. \r\n\r\nYeah, I was really thinking about
    Financials when I mentioned fractions. I was imagining columns of stock prices
    in tabular columns and thinking that if they use fractions and they're right-aligned,
    then the fractions need to be at least on a consistent cross-fraction width, so
    the column doesn't waver. Whether they need to be on the same figure width (i.e.,
    probably a nut fraction) would depend on whether you could expect to find figures
    and fractions in the same column.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-22 23:41:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Kent,\r\nIt may be possible with opentype to create what amounts to case
    specific punctuation that works with the tabfigures selection. What I mean is,
    when you select tabular numbers from the OpenType menu, given that you have created
    a set of operators that match the width, you could substitute a class of glyphs
    to tabular width (sub @num by @tabnum) where the classes include punctuation and
    operators. In the case of math operators, I would always make them tabular anyway.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-23 00:30:42'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'When I was asked to modify existing fonts for tabular use it was to save
    the compositor time - so the font had odd and very specific characteristics. I''ll
    send you info offline. '
  created: '2008-01-23 00:40:34'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>Yeah, I was really thinking about Financials when I mentioned fractions.
    </em>\r\n\r\nI'd have to check with my brother-in-law, the financial wizard with
    the estate in the Bahamas, but if memory serves, only U.S.-based exchanges still
    use fractions: everyone else has migrated to decimals. Important? Um, well, probably.
    Essential? I'm not so sure -- if you tune into to Bloomberg TV, for example, they
    are showing prices on both the NYSE and NASDAQ in decimals these days...."
  created: '2008-01-23 03:21:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Linda, can you show samples of typesetting where it was useful to have tab-figure-width
    characters (monetary symbols, punctuation, math symbols)?
  created: '2008-01-23 05:29:41'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Chris -- Yes indeed, building {tnum} is exactly why I'm posing the question.
    I know it would be simple to include tabular punctuation, for instance, but is
    that necessary or desirable? \r\n\r\nIn a table of financials, for instance, presumably
    the period and/or comma would always be aligned with itself, so it's not necessarily
    important to have them on the same width as figures. Probably not a bad idea to
    have the two on the same width, perhaps. \r\n\r\nWhat about scientific tables?
    Again, I would presume that the majority would align on the decimal point, or
    have a consistent number of digits after the decimal. But, maybe not?\r\n\r\nMonetary
    symbols: Don't they always lead the figures? So do they really all need to be
    on the same (tabular) width? (Minion Pro includes tabular monetaries in {tnum},
    but Arno Pro does not, for example.)\r\n\r\nI, too, fit the arithmetic operators
    on the same width -- but this width doesn't necessarily relate to the figure widths.
    Should they be adjusted to tabular figure width for {tnum}? Again, if they align
    with themselves, then consistent cross-operator width is sufficient. If they align
    against numbers, then they would need a consistent tabular width. But is there
    any kind of practical situation that would require operators aligned against numbers?\r\n\r\nLinda
    -- You make a good point about the declining use of fractions in stock financials.
    Tabular fractions are probably only truly valuable in an agate font specialized
    for stock reporting.\r\n\r\n-- K. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-23 13:22:47'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "US stock prices moved to decimals years ago. They are no longer in fractions.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-01-23 17:44:24'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "That is correct. The only use of fractions in financials now would be in
    historic references, and maybe, rarely in posting interest rates or similar percentages.\r\n\r\nOh,
    and gasoline prices always have that 9/10 of a cent at the end. That's probably
    the most commonly seen fraction in the US in fact. Seems odd that it isn't a standard
    character."
  created: '2008-01-23 18:05:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/figspace_3418.jpg]\r\n\r\nIs this the
    kind of thing that gets set in mechanical equipment catalogs in the USA?\r\n\r\nIf
    so, there are a number of questions:\r\n\r\n1. In the second measurement, where
    there is no fraction, is is good practice to leave a space before the inch mark?
    If so, it makes sense to have the fraction width correspond to the tab figure
    width, so that the typographer can use \"Type > Insert White Space > Figure Space\"
    (InDesign) to easily access the hard space.\r\n\r\n2. Wouldn't it make sense for
    fonts to have their basic quote marks (hash marks) on an angle? -- identical glyphs,
    in fact, to the proper minute (foot) and second (inch) characters. That way, they
    wouldn't be so hard to find and set.\r\n\r\n3. Are there similar issues in recipe
    books? "
  created: '2008-01-23 21:45:02'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "We don't set many scientific tables, except for a few dismal ones (economics).\r\n\r\nWith
    that caveat, I don't think the period & comma have to be figure width, but they
    do need to be a comfortable width -- so, for a font like Minion, we made up tabular
    commas and periods. I just took a look, and the period & tab have a setwidth of
    455 units, while the numbers have a 500 unit setwidth. The regular period has
    a 242 unit setwidth, and is just too tight with numbers, esp. in a table. (This
    isn't Minion Pro, but a multiple master \"instance.\")\r\n\r\nI've also always
    liked an asterisk at tabular number width, for statistical tables.\r\n\r\nWe also
    usually make up separate arithmetic operators, one set for old style figures,
    one set for lining. Not so much a width problem as a hight issue. I suppose it
    would be nice to have them on the figure body -- usually they're close anyway
    -- although unless they have generous or TeX-like (mathematical) sidebearings,
    you usually set the arithmetic opeators with a space.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-23 22:12:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "There is actually a character, onedotenleader, Unicode 2024, that can be
    designated as a period with tab figure width, and I'm doing that in my mega-fonts.\r\nBut,
    as with all these potentially useful characters, the difficulty for the typographer,
    especially if you're not a specialist typographer per se, and are more of a general
    graphic designer, is accessibility. This sort of tiny speck character is hard
    to accurately locate in the glyph palette."
  created: '2008-01-23 22:20:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sounds like a job for a stylistic set, Nick?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-23 22:24:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "But surely that is the \"Tabular Oldstyle\" and \"Tabular Lining\" features,
    which basically substitute one set of figures with another.\r\nNow Kent is wondering
    if these features should also substitute monowidth, figure-width:\r\n\r\n- period
    and comma\r\n-fractions\r\n-space\r\n-etc., etc.\r\n\r\nSounds like a good idea,
    but are there situations where tabular figures would be required with regular
    punctuation, etc?\r\nYes, with a numbered list, for instance.\r\nSo a stylistic
    set would probably be better--but I'm not sure these are user friendly, and are
    also in danger of becoming bloated.\r\nWouldn't typographers rather have easy
    access to setting specific glyphs, rather than diificult-to-navigate-to OpenType
    features that have global effects which are not always apparent exactly what they
    do? "
  created: '2008-01-23 23:08:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If stylistic sets ever allow meaningful names instead of numbers, this would
    be much better,\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-23 23:26:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Right, with roll-over pop-up descriptions--like the way OT features are described
    at FontShop.com.
  created: '2008-01-24 00:49:00'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>. . . but are there situations where tabular figures would be required
    with regular punctuation, etc? Yes, with a numbered list, for instance.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm
    trying to think this through, so don't jump on me for a bonehead mistake, but
    if you want to use tabular figures in a list, there is no reason you have to use
    the tabular period with them -- i.e., if formatting direct entry, don't highlight
    the periods. If coding files, don't include the period in the character code.
    You wouldn't want any other numbers in the list to be tabular, so not everything
    in the list could use tabular numbers anyhow. In point of fact, I *think* I've
    used the tabular periods with list numbers anyway, and just used less of a ditch
    to the list body.\r\n\r\nI've been making up fonts with a tabular period & comma
    in \"tnum\" (for some fonts) for a year or so now, & none of the comps has complained.
    Which isn't to say they shouldn't have. \r\n\r\nAlso, BTW, different arithmetic
    operators, dollar signs, and occasionally pound sterling as a part of \"onum\"
    & \"lnum\"\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-24 01:54:00'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>Monetary symbols: Don\u2019t they always lead the figures? So do they
    really all need to be on the same (tabular) width? (Minion Pro includes tabular
    monetaries in {tnum}, but Arno Pro does not, for example.)</em>\r\n\r\nThey do,
    so far as I know, but that doesn't mean they shouldn't be consistent: in extended
    reading, I would likely not only catch, but also be concerned about monetary symbols
    that have much variation in width. And if you want to be consistent, wouldn't
    it be easier to just make one set of monetary symbols to match the tabular figures?
    ;-) Perhaps we're making this too complicated....\r\n\r\n<em>Linda \u2014 You
    make a good point about the declining use of fractions in stock financials. Tabular
    fractions are probably only truly valuable in an agate font specialized for stock
    reporting.</em> \r\n\r\nAnd only in historical reference, which really limits
    usage. Perhaps one would be better off in having individual \"upper\" and \"lower\"
    values to combine in the Fractions way: that might mean designing lower ones of
    16 and 32, but that might be it.  You're the designer, Kent: I'm just a lowly
    user.  :-) "
  created: '2008-01-24 02:52:46'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> I would likely not only catch, but also be concerned about monetary
    symbols that have much variation in width. </cite>\r\n\r\nI think that in a workhorse
    where tabular numbers are likely to be used, or where broad compatibility is concerned
    I utterly agree. But for a text face I don't agree. It's a Georgia vs Scala kind
    of thing. \r\n\r\nIn a text face I think a more expansive if quite judicious sense
    of difference especially if it's borne out historically should carry the day.
    For instance I think a British pound sign \xA3 often looks good a bit wider or
    even much wider than the $ sign.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-24 04:16:07'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Good point, Eben -- I think it all boils down to where users expect to see
    monetary symbols, whether in tables or text.\r\n\r\nCertainly, in the few financial
    publications I read, the vast majority of symbols I see are in a text situation
    and not a tabular one. Do I notice fluctuations in their character width? Um,
    well, no. ;-)\r\n\r\nBut I'll conduct a non-scientific experiment with tomorrow's
    rag: my guess (and it's only a guess here) is that the difference in character
    width isn't terribly large, if it exists at all. "
  created: '2008-01-24 04:56:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I've designed faces in a lot of different genres, and in my experience the
    dollar symbol is really the only currency symbol that is comfortable on a width
    as narrow as that of the numbers. The Euro is of course impossible (figuratively
    speaking, that is).\r\n\r\nI see absolutely no practical reason to make currency
    symbols the same width as tabular figures -- this is probably just something people
    think would make effficient design, with no grounding in reality. Of course, I
    could be wrong, but I will be loth to admit it without seeing evidence.  "
  created: '2008-01-24 07:29:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>if you want to use tabular figures in a list, there is no reason you
    have to use the tabular period with them</em>\r\n\r\nRight. In fact, a non-tab
    period should be the default, because of situations like this, where the whole
    column may have the \"tabular lining\" or \"tabular oldstyle\" feature applied
    to it as one selection or style sheet. The period with a figure-width (right,
    below) is too open. The rare occurence where a number (e.g. a year or price) occurs
    in the text of the list, then that would have to be selected and given a \"proportional\"
    figure style. \r\n\r\nLeft: normal period, quite narrow. Right: period is \"onedotenleader\"
    with tab figure width.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tablist_6164.jpg]"
  created: '2008-01-24 07:47:16'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I did a little survey of types and I found that the more old fashioned in
    style of the font was the more likely that the pound & dollar would diverge. Bickham
    pro - big difference. Adobe Caslon - small difference. Vista fonts - little or
    no difference. In terms of my personal taste I will mostly say \"Vive la diff\xE9rence!\"
    ...if I can get away with using the phrase that is.\r\n\r\nNick, I assume you
    followed your preference regarding the Euro etc with your newspaper type - no? "
  created: '2008-01-24 09:00:39'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Hello Nick, your list example: If period and comma were half of the tabular-width,
    then it would be ok to apply such a 'tnum' to list numbers. (A character style
    with 'tnum' applied to the number only would work best, rather than applying 'tnum'
    to the entire paragraph.)\r\nAnother question (raised above already) is, is it
    sufficient if period and comma are of equal width, whatever it is, or does it
    need to be the width of tabular numerals?\r\n\r\nThese suggestions introduce an
    interesting use of 'tnum'! In my current understanding, the effect of applying
    'tnum' is the reverse of applying 'pnum', and default would reflect one  of them
    -- which makes two options. The suggestions however imply that 'tnum', 'pnum'
    and default (none of both applied) are three options. (While by default, punctuation
    marks or currency symbols may differ in width while numerals may be tabular, applying
    'tnum' will turn them into tabular-width ones.) Good idea."
  created: '2008-01-24 11:15:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"\u201Clower\u201D values to combine in the Fractions way: that might mean
    designing lower ones of 16 and 32, but that might be it.\"\r\n\r\nLinda, with
    OpenType, you can write the {frac} feature to combine this all for you for all
    fractions. All you need is a full set of numerator and denominator glyphs and
    a couple of lines of feature code. You can then type any fraction like 25/632
    apply the fractions feature and get the fraction you wish. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-24 14:28:12'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: That's what I thought, Chris -- I don't have a great need for fractions in
    the work I edit or things I write these days.  One of the nicer advantages to
    switching over to metric, I guess.  ;-)
  created: '2008-01-24 14:32:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You will never get us bone-headed Americans to switch to the metric system
    but we can live with decimal numbers :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-24 14:40:30'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"What characters do you need to have on consistent tabular widths?\"\r\nThis
    depends somewhat on the application, (not program, but rather use, including the
    size of use, but normally, it was:\r\nfigures, figure space, and monetary signs
    on the figure width. Yen and Pound often needed special drawing for this, with
    $, \xA2 and what was called florin, being fine with but a single drawing. The
    Euro is and Ruble will be, I think, closer to the Yen and Pound in requirements.\r\n:
    . , ' and \" on 1/2 of the figure width, ; usually followed : just for consistency,
    on a 1/4 em.\r\nvulgar fractions were 1.5 figure width. \r\nNormally the figures
    were on 1/2 em, so the 1/4 em space was used to tab both punctuation and fractions,
    along with the Em to finish lines, or pile on to the next tab..\r\nAssuming then,
    that your tabularity was based on mulitiples of a full em, there was no problem
    composing anything.\r\n\r\nI'm wondering if OT can be trained to automatically
    sub . and quarter em for .  ... or fractions and quarter em for fractions, when
    in tabular use, but not too hard...;)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-24 16:20:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>figures, figure space, and monetary signs on the figure width.</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    this is the general belief, although rarely implemented in practice.\r\n\r\nMicrosoft
    standards help propogate the myth, and offer the usual \"reasonable\" explanation:\r\n<em>Fonts
    with tabular figures should have monetary symbols that are tabular so when they
    are used for monetary amounts in columns or spreadsheets the data will align</em>\r\n\r\nHowever,
    I have never come across such columns or spreadsheets where this width equivalence
    is necessary.\r\nIt may have been useful in the days of hard metal space, but
    surely tabs, set digitally, have made it unnecessary.\r\nEven if there were the
    occasional instance of tab-figure -width currency being useful, is that really
    enough of a reason to either distort the default currency figures into a narrow
    width, or go to the trouble of providing an alternate set of figures?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-24 17:22:55'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Yes, this is the general belief, although rarely implemented in practice.\"\r\nI've
    never done anything else...What is implemented in practice?"
  created: '2008-01-24 18:56:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sorry, a little too subjective as usual.\r\nI haven't done a survey, but
    you're no doubt right David that the norm is tab-figure-width currency.\r\nHowever,
    I'm sure I'm not the only one who does things differently, and many of the OS
    X .dfonts have varying width currency symbols.\r\nBut doing it just because that's
    the way it's done?--I still say show me why."
  created: '2008-01-24 19:20:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "One reason to do it outside of some practical reason* is to fulfill an aesthetic
    imperative. \r\n\r\nIf you have tabular numbers they take on a certain look and
    a certain evenness. Having the Currency symbols \"fit\" that look or visual scheme
    might be better. I think this is like that oft repeated and I think accurate idea
    that oldstyle figures look better if the number is set into text. \r\n\r\nAnother
    reason would be to continue a modernist urge to regularity in general. I suspicious
    of that urge these days because I think it was taken too far but it is an idea
    I understand and can see the practical appeal of. \r\n\r\n*If you start a line
    of numbers with a dollar sign & it has one width & then another with a Yen sign
    and the Currency symbols have different widths the two lines of tabular numbers
    will be out of synch. There are more ways to look at this than using a set width
    and an optically equal glyph; one that appears to be the \"same\" size which is
    what MS seems to like best. You could instead use the same width and position
    the currency glyph so it's right side relationship to numerals is similar but
    allow the left side is visually vary in width. You could even let it slip past
    the bounding box on the left. There might be legit reasons having to do with hinting
    or something that would preclude that sort of thing.\r\n\r\nBut my main point
    is that I think practicality & aesthetics may have erroneously become conflated
    here.\r\n\r\nAm I off track here?"
  created: '2008-01-24 20:05:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>If you start a line of numbers with a dollar sign & it has one width
    & then another with a Yen sign and the Currency symbols have different widths
    the two lines of tabular numbers will be out of synch.</em>\r\n\r\nNot an issue.\r\nI
    just set a table like that a couple of days ago, a business form, using TextEdit.\r\nThe
    Euro (which follows the EU spec.) is much wider than the other currency symbols,
    but so what?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Shinnter_4416.jpg]"
  created: '2008-01-24 21:11:27'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "<cite>The Euro (which follows the EU spec.) is much wider than the other
    currency symbols, but so what?</cite>\r\n\r\nI came across [[http://www.fontshop.com/features/fontmag/002/02_euro|this]]
    recently."
  created: '2008-01-24 23:13:11'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Nick -- I think Eben is imagining a vertical list of values that is left-aligned,
    where varying widths in monetaries will force the tabular figs out of line with
    one another. Whereas, tab-width monetaries will produce an orderly list regardless
    of left-alignment or right-alignment.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-24 23:14:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>a vertical list of values that is left-aligned</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think
    anyone who left-aligned a column of values would be too concerned about variances
    in the width of currency symbols!"
  created: '2008-01-24 23:31:33'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Kent has said it better than I could have. I should make a habit of showing
    what I mean more often. Now it might be the case that Nick's model is the more
    likely one - I have no idea. But Both models should be supported. \r\n\r\nBTW
    did the point I was making about visual width and the glyph bounding box width
    being potentially seperate issues make sense to you or should I create a visual?\r\n\r\nThanks
    for the link Jos!"
  created: '2008-01-24 23:33:19'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "FWIW, some countries *do* in fact place the symbol after the number. Some
    countries using the euro, even.\r\n\r\nStill, that would only create a need for
    tabular currency if the doc has multiple currencies....\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-01-25 00:34:30'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "You're welcome Eben. Ill-conceived by the so called European Commission\u2019s
    official specification I found this information very revealing."
  created: '2008-01-25 00:42:00'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I had forgotten about that Thomas! Nice point! It certainly kicks my idea
    in the head unless you wanted to do something with localization...
  created: '2008-01-25 02:23:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>But Both models should be supported.</em>\r\n\r\nEben, columns of figures
    aren't set flush left, they're set flush right or tab-aligned to the decimal point.\r\n\r\nWhether
    the currency symbol is before or after the number, it doesn't interfere with the
    tabular alignment of the figures.\r\n\r\nThe idea that currency symbols should
    be tab-figure width is an anachronism from the days of hard metal spacing."
  created: '2008-01-25 02:43:42'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: 'A four-to-em space is just too small for a comma, or even a period with tabular
    numbers. It may make setting a table easier, but to paraphrase Crocodile Dundee,
    "It may make your life easier, but it looks like $h!t." '
  created: '2008-01-25 03:11:41'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite>Eben, columns of figures aren\u2019t set flush left, they\u2019re set
    flush right or tab-aligned to the decimal point.</cite>\r\n\r\nI see. These are
    really good points. But I suppose I was thinking not like a typographer but like
    a simple typist. If that's your user and in some cases it will be then the MS/Berlow
    model does give your font some additional robustness even if it makes it a little
    less interesting/rich.\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-25 03:44:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "A simple typist would never be able to set a column of figures flush left
    and have them line up, unless all the numbers had the same number of digits. Because
    the space character width is not the same as the (tab) figure width.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-25 08:26:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The tab has cured most of the evils.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-25 13:37:40'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"But doing it just because that\u2019s the way it\u2019s done?\u2014I still
    say show me why.\"\r\nMy answer, reflected not just what works for me. \r\n\r\nI
    think the multiple definitions of 'tabular', and 'you' lurking in the question:
    \"What characters do you need to have on consistent tabular widths?\" have been
    explored, and though I hardly ever pine for the days when 'simple typists' solved
    these problems simply by using typewriters, I pine now. But now the pining, it's
    over. \r\n\r\n\"The tab has cured most of the evils.\"\r\nThis too may be true,
    but take 2 tabs, and you'll never know evil ever existed...\r\n\r\nCheers.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-25 14:57:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"take 2 tabs, and you\u2019ll never know evil ever existed\"\r\n\r\nDo I
    have to call you in the morning after that? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-25 17:59:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Typewriters had tabs, which one could zing the carriage along to, at which
    point it came to a crashing halt.\r\nThe digital equivalent would be to have the
    tab marker \"snap to\" increments of the tab figure width.\r\nBut there's be no
    point, other than for pining nostalgia buffs.\r\n\r\nThe tabs in Quark and InDesign
    are brilliant. Aligning to the decimal point is indispensible, and the ability
    to make a sequence of characters into a leader is a lovely bit of fluff.\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-25 20:26:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The true brilliance of the modern digital tab is that a very precise point
    can be set and repeated and become part of a style sheet that can provide consistent
    repetion as desired. We can have left aligning, right aligning, center aligning
    and decimal alining tabs thereby opening the world of tables to sensible production
    means.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-25 20:39:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Are they called tables because they're tab-led?
  created: '2008-01-25 20:49:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "edited (hopefully) for clarity \r\n\r\nNick, I think I made my point in the
    way I did because of a custom version of some Adobe faces I was asked to make.
    It had the space set to the tabular width and you could simply type out your numbers
    and add a space or more at the beginning of a line if you had numbers with different
    character counts and perversely insisted on having your text left aligned. \r\n\r\nBelieve
    me, I think the way you describe handling it is far superior. But the dumb but
    robust quality of the custom font I made was in my mind notable; and represented
    an extreme example of typographic priorities. The MS approach struck me as less
    extreme but similar in that robustness in the face of the typograhically ignorant
    user. \r\n\r\nAgain I am not advocating that as an approach I am just saying it
    exists and for a reason. \r\n\r\nI am learning a lot from this thread.Thanks! "
  created: '2008-01-25 21:08:06'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"But there\u2019s be no point, other than for pining nostalgia buffs.\"\r\n...well,
    apparently not. I mean, there is a lot of education left to pull out of that old
    hat...\r\n\r\n\"The digital equivalent would be to have...\"\r\n...a monospaced
    font. There is no substitute. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-26 11:57:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: A separate monospaced font? Come on David, get with the tour! These days,
    you're supposed to PUT EVERYTHING on ONE REALLY BIG OPENTYPE FONT!!!! REAL MEN
    have THOUSANDS OF GLYPHS on their REALLY BIG OPENTYPE FONTS!!!!!! Especially if
    they work for REALLY BIG CORPORATIONS!!!!!!!!!!!!
  created: '2008-01-26 22:31:09'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Karsten wrote:\r\n\r\n<cite>If period and comma were half of the tabular-width,
    then it would be ok to apply such a \u2019tnum\u2019 to list numbers. (A character
    style with \u2019tnum\u2019 applied to the number only would work best, rather
    than applying \u2019tnum\u2019 to the entire paragraph.)</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, you
    could write the OT feature code so that you can apply tnum to the whole text,
    but only commas and periods between numerals would be substituted, but do we really
    want more of this auto-formatting intelligence? ;)\r\n\r\n<cite>Another question
    (raised above already) is, is it sufficient if period and comma are of equal width,
    whatever it is, or does it need to be the width of tabular numerals?</cite>\r\n\r\nDo
    comma and period need to have the same width at all? E.g. some countries will
    use the period as decimal separator and the comma to mark the thousands, and other
    countries vice versa, but is it likely for both versions to occur inside the same
    table?\r\n\r\nA point not mentioned in this thread so far: What about Tabular
    figures and punctuation having the same width <em>across different weights</em>
    of the typeface? That could be very useful if you, for example, wrote an invoice
    and you wanted to highlight the total amount using the bold weight, and all the
    figures would still align.\r\n\r\nJens"
  created: '2008-01-28 09:39:09'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>A point not mentioned in this thread</cite>\r\n\r\nYep, good one!"
  created: '2008-01-28 10:38:12'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Do comma and period need to have the same width[...]? E.g. some countries
    will use the period as decimal separator and the comma to mark the thousands,
    and other countries vice versa, but is it likely for both versions to occur inside
    the same table?\"\r\nYou lost one of us. . and , are not tabular-spaced for one
    kind of use in one kind of country. \r\n\r\n\"What about Tabular figures and punctuation
    having the same width across different weights of the typeface?\"\r\nThe tradition
    is the same tabular figure width width across typefaces, so within a family, assuming
    it's designed for the purpose, this is not a problem, or news.\r\n\r\n\"REAL MEN
    have THOUSANDS OF GLYPHS on their REALLY BIG OPENTYPE FONTS!!!!!!\"\r\nGang of
    bangs aside, there is a 1 millimeter wide (filled with spaces), 100 mile deep
    (it's never going to close), crack between unicode and the applications preventing
    this in production fonts. In the foundry, yes, real men have all the styles, all
    the glyphs and all the spaces of a whole family in a \"font\", but this does not
    please the really big corporations until they need modifications in a hurry. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-01-28 19:27:03'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<cite>The tradition is the same tabular figure width width across typefaces,
    so within a family, assuming it\u2019s designed for the purpose, this is not a
    problem, or news.</cite>\r\n\r\nHm, tradition ... depends on what fonts you look
    at. Adobe don't seem to do it (I looked at Myriad, Minion, Arno, Garamond Premier),
    FSI not generally. Arial, Times NR yes, but even most other system fonts have
    different TF widths in different weights.\r\n\r\nJens "
  created: '2008-01-29 10:08:32'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Myriad? Minion?\r\nJens, you have to think even more traditional! ;\xB0)\r\nCheck
    out Frutiger, Palatino, Helvetica, Optima, Franklin Gothic, Univers.\r\n\r\nBut
    there are also some very fresh fonts with consistent figure widths across weights;
    e.g. KLTF Grotext."
  created: '2008-01-29 11:05:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I've always tried to make figures the same width in Regular and Bold, but
    it wasn't always possible for every typeface, often one or the other just looked
    too gnarly. In fact, it's a characteristic of the faces you mention, Florian,
    that the lining figures are a bit nasty for text work, the beauty of which has
    been sacrificed for utility in tabular settings such as financial reports.\r\n\r\nThe
    great thing about OpenType is that the norm is for applications to provide four
    sets of figures, so foundries can supply beautiful proportional figures, and utilitarian
    tabular (monowidth) figures in the same font, with oldstyle and lining variants
    of both."
  created: '2008-01-29 17:26:10'
date: '2008-01-22 21:27:30'
title: A Tabular Question

---
