---
author:
  name: armin
  picture: 110197
body: I'm working on a book (which you can read more about <a href="http://www.underconsideration.com/speakup/archives/004208.html">here</a>)
  that devotes one chapter to the "Best of...". And I want to feature one or two of
  the very best and pioneering OpenType typefaces created to this point. Which ones
  make the best use of technology? Which existing typeface benefited the most from
  being ported into OpenType? All opinions welcome.
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.p22.com/products/cezannepro.html\">P22 C\xE9zanne Pro</a>
    may be the most popular feature-rich OpenType font. It was very popular before
    OT, but was one of the first typefaces to make use of <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/singles/p22/p22_cezanne_pro_ot/\">contextual
    alternates, ligatures, and swashes</a> to improve the emulation of natural handwriting.
    <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/singles/linotype/zapfino_extra_lt_pro_ot/\">Zapfino
    Extra Pro</a> is also a candidate in this handwritten script category, despite
    it's hyperbolic name. Of course, <a href=\"http://www.veer.com/partner/link.aspx?i=1048&c=4&p=search/results.aspx?searchTerm=100002831,100007756,100007359\">Alejandro
    Paul's scripts</a> came later, breaking records as far as number of glyphs.\r\n\r\nI'll
    let someone else determine which fonts take best advantage of the text typesetting
    features OpenType has to offer."
  created: '2008-01-23 20:19:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I'd rate 1. Ed Interlock 2. Arabic Typesetting\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-23 20:26:42'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I think the record breaker for number of glyphs is actually Arno Pro. Isn't
    it? And as much as people are loathe to mention Bickham Script it is *still* hugely
    popular and was one of the first to show all type designers how many alternates
    really are possible.\r\n\r\nI'll second Ed Interlock. I remember the presentation
    at TypeCon still and it was awesome to see what House had done. \r\nI'll also
    second Cezanne. (In case a voting system helps.)"
  created: '2008-01-23 21:10:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Robert Slimbach's open type faces for Adobe have set a new standard for text
    families. \r\n\r\nThey are not only aesthetically very good and superbly crafted,
    but they have taken great advantage of both Multiple Master and Open Type technology.
    They don't have all the contextual substitutions of script faces, but they have
    set a standard by having not only optical sizes--facilitated by multiple master
    technology--but also within each size they greatly exploit Open type technology:
    four different sets of figures, fraction creation, small caps in all styles and
    weights, Central European, Turkish and Greek and Cyrillic characters as well.
    And open type class kerning. I don't have the latest--Garamond Premier and Arno--but
    only Minion Pro. Still these, as well as Adobe Jenson and probably others must
    be counted among the 'bests' of Open Type. \r\n\r\nSo I would think that if you
    are going to feature two 'best of' open type faces, picking one of Slimbach's
    and one of the script faces would make sense. "
  created: '2008-01-23 21:14:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I cross-posted with Tiffany. Great minds ... :) \r\n\r\nPersonally I think
    Slimbach's revivals--Jenson, Garamond--are aesthetically the best of his stuff.
    \r\n\r\nAlso, am I the only one who thinks he must have cloned himself, or got
    the oompah loompas working out there in Adobe land? Do you want a semi-bold caption
    size swash eth? --It's unnatural. "
  created: '2008-01-23 21:34:40'
- author:
    name: armin
    picture: 110197
  body: Ed Interlock was the one that had first come to mind. So it's nice to see
    that others consider it as well.
  created: '2008-01-23 22:59:28'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "William, I can attest to the fact that Robert has oompah loompahs helping
    him. ;^)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-23 23:11:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Adobe were the pioneers of course -- they created fonts with all the OpenType
    features, concurrrently with developing the software applications which support
    those features, a \"symbiotic\" process testing one against the other.\r\n\r\nRobert
    Slimbach's Caflisch, for instance, which already had many alternates in Type 1,
    was a natural candidate for applying the contextual alternates, swash, and ligature
    features in a script font. This was some time before C\xE9zanne Pro.\r\n\r\nAt
    least, that's my impression, but Adobe's Typophilers can probably give a fuller
    account--I'd be particularly interested in Eric's perspective. \r\n\r\nSubsequently,
    Zapfino Extra Pro and Bickham pushed script coding further, because AFAIK these
    were designed with OpenType in mind.\r\n\r\nHowever, before OpenType, Emigre's
    \"Ligmaker\" utilized substitution routines for implementing Mrs Eaves' eccentric
    ligatures. \r\n\r\nI don't think you can say that any one face makes the best
    use of OpenType, because by now the technology has been subsumed into the design
    process, so may be used integrally by different type designers for quite different
    purposes that are hard to compare. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-24 07:20:46'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Adobe were the pioneers of course \r\n\r\nMS (with the non-latin stuff)"
  created: '2008-01-24 07:28:40'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: It also depends if you think only of the obvious features (contextual alternates
    that make type look like writing, which even my grandma might recognize) or include
    the more subtle things like contextual positioning which help make the typographer's
    job a bit easier. The latter is not used in Latin script fonts much, and rather
    found in non-Latin fonts.
  created: '2008-01-24 11:34:35'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: "Palatino Linotype shipped with Windows 2000, and included many OpenType features,
    for setting Latin text. The font was also extensively hinted for on screen use.\r\n\r\nhttp://blogs.msdn.com/fontblog/archive/2007/06/11/a-blast-from-type-past.aspx\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-24 16:49:19'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Armin,\r\n\r\nAt Monotype we did a sort of redesign or update to Noori Nastaliq,
    which had been in Monotype's library for a long time, but was always maddeningly
    complicated to implement; the calligraphic Nastaliq style has a characteristic
    slope in each word (among other characteristics), making conventional typographic
    alignment impossible. As well, given the fluid style of the traditional calligraphy
    being mimicked, context changes everything, making numerous glyph variants essential.
    Previous technologies relied on huge numbers of ligatures and substitutions, making
    for really enormous font sets; we boiled it down to individual glyphs again, with
    contextual variants, and with the power of OpenType, engineered a way for text
    to be shaped dynamically, in a convincing Nastaliq style, while you type. It's
    a good example of the positioning Karsten (and maybe Si) is referring to. This
    font really takes advantage of OT technology throughout; in fact it depends on
    OT for basic functionality; without it, words wouldn't compose at all. "
  created: '2008-01-24 16:57:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You might also include Tal Leming as a strong pusher of the opentype envelope
    with Christian Schwartz's faces.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-24 17:15:48'
- author:
    name: emenninga
  body: "I think Nick was calling my name...\r\n\r\nI recall the first OpenType fonts
    that we tested in InDesign being Adobe Caslon Pro, Garamond Pro, Warnock Pro,
    Tekton Pro, etc.  The first really fun font was Caflisch and we liked showing
    that one off! We also tested with Palatino Linotype pretty early.\r\nGenerally,
    these early fonts were just slightly better than the Type 1 font would have been.
    You got a few more characters supported, you got a couple ligatures, old-style
    figures, fractions...  \r\nThe choice of a best/pioneering OpenType font would
    choose the font(s) that inspired all of the really amazing fonts being sold today
    (Ed Interlock, all of the script faces, etc.)  Caflisch Script Pro might be that
    pioneer, but I'm not sure (since I'm not a font developer) what faces inspired
    Tal Leming's work, Alejandro Paul\u2019s work, etc.  "
  created: '2008-01-24 18:46:50'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I've been told by an insider that Christian's Local Gothic pushes OT further
    than Ed Gothic did ... which simply blows my mind even more.
  created: '2008-01-24 18:52:02'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: As there's no 'random' feature in OT, Local Gothic is technically impressive,
    but the wow factor of Ed Interlock is higher, IMHO.
  created: '2008-01-24 18:56:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">wow factor of Ed Interlock \r\n\r\nFor \"wow\" of open type, I've not seen
    anything like Ed Interlock. But to me the style itself is stale, and not so good
    looking. That's why I would rather see one of the scripts on a list of 'best'.
    I haven't really looked much at cursive fonts; quite a few of them are very impressive.\r\n\r\nI
    confess I don't 'get' Local Gothic either, though generally I am a big fan of
    Christian Schwartz's work. It seems like a joke, with added technical wizardry.
    I just can't figure out what you'd want to use it for.\r\n\r\nps I don't know
    if the new Arabic font system Tasmeem, which composes by stroke, uses open type,
    but the demo at TypeCon was flat out amazing--more than Ed Interlock.  "
  created: '2008-01-24 19:14:54'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I can't imagine not selecting Bickham Script Pro as one of the couple of
    typefaces. It was one of the first script typefaces to do *really* complicated
    ligature/alternate stuff in OpenType, and it is still one of the most complex,
    and with very few bugs in its implementation. Caflisch Script Pro is great, too,
    but nowhere near as cool (albeit more of a pioneer).\r\n\r\nI don't find glyph
    count very convincing by itself, even though it makes our (Adobe's) fonts look
    \"better.\" First, there are more or equally important things to sheer glyph count.
    Second, our practice of duplicating certain glyphs inflates the glyph count relative
    to other fonts. (Note that thanks to subroutines, it doesn't have much impact
    on file size.) But if you were to count that way, either Arno or Hypatia Sans
    would come out \"on top\":\r\n\r\nArno Pro Regular: 2845\r\nHypatia Sans Regular:
    3057\r\nHypatia Sans Italic (coming soon): ~3092\r\nArno Pro Italic: 3222\r\n\r\nNot
    that I'd pick Hypatia Sans as either a pioneer or best of, myself. I agree that
    one of Robert's text faces such as Arno makes a great representative for OpenType.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-01-24 19:19:46'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Arial (v 5.0) Vista and Leopard version - 3381 glyphs\r\n\r\nOops, there
    goes the glyph count argument ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-24 19:25:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Caflisch was certainly the face that I noticed first, suggesting the design
    potential of contextual alternates, which is particulalry pertinent to scripts.\r\n\r\nIt
    inspired me to produce Handsome Pro, released in early 2005, about the same time
    as Christian Robertson's Dear Sarah.\r\n\r\nThe idea is to use a system of alternates
    rather than precomposed ligatures, which I demonstrated in a TypeCon 2005 workshop,
    along with Adam and Thomas. There's still a lot of unexplored territory in this
    area, for instance, enough already with the fancy retro scripts, where are the
    fonts that look like real contemporary handwriting? A second generation is no
    doubt in the works. \r\n\r\nAlso, I'm still waiting for the release of a roman
    face which uses contextual alternates to simulate the vagaries of letterpress
    -- or did I miss that?"
  created: '2008-01-24 19:39:59'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> I\u2019m still waiting for the release of a roman face which uses contextual
    alternates to simulate the vagaries of letterpress \r\n\r\nIt's not exactly letterpress
    emulation, but <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/features/newsletters/oct2007_b/\">FF
    Beowolf OT</a> has as many as 9 slightly different contextual alternates of each
    character to simulate the randomness of the original FF Beowolf and FF BeoSans.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FirefoxScreenSnapz001_6335.jpg]"
  created: '2008-01-24 20:14:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "This following quote is from an interview I did with Tal Leming last Summer:\r\n\r\n\"One
    great thing about OpenType fonts is that they can be programmed with sophisticated
    pattern matching routines that can be used as \u201Crules\u201D that govern when
    glyph substitutions should occur. \u2026 When a series of these rules are used
    in combination, a glyph can flip from its alternate state and back any number
    of times before the algorithm is finished processing. This makes it very difficult
    to predict which glyph state will be output, thus effectively creating the illusion
    that the glyphs are being randomly selected.\r\nAfter sitting on this idea for
    a while, I finally got a chance to use it in the OpenType version of Christian
    Schwartz\u2019s typeface Local Gothic. The idea behind that typeface is that there
    is a set number of alternate forms for each character, and these alternates should
    be used in an arbitrary way. The randomization algorithm takes in the string of
    characters that the user has entered, pushes it through the various test filters
    and uses some cipher-like routines to create a sequence of glyphs that appear
    to be chosen in an unpredictable way.\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-24 20:47:19'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/feelit_5949.jpg]\r\n\r\n> Stephen said
    \"Of course, Alejandro Paul\u2019s scripts came later, breaking records as far
    as number of glyphs\".\r\n\r\nNo way. Bickham was there. I added the 3 or 4 glyphs
    ligatures with Ministry...lol, does it counts?\r\n\r\n> Shinn says \"I don\u2019t
    think you can say that any one face makes the best use of OpenType, because by
    now the technology has been subsumed into the design process...\"\r\n\r\nIi think
    that is the key. The type as part of graphic design. Is not a change of format,
    it's a new thinking. I m designing fonts as a graphic designer not as a type designer.
    I design some fonts only possible at OT. Without OT there are no font. \r\n\r\n>
    emenninga said \"...but I\u2019m not sure (since I\u2019m not a font developer)
    what faces inspired Tal Leming\u2019s work, Alejandro Paul\u2019s work, etc\".\r\n\r\nAt
    least to me, the lettering people from the 30's working in New York before photolettering.
    I like the idea to mix the times and methods. I enjoy the words not the glyphs
    and I love to experiment that with OT technology.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-24 20:56:49'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: To what extent do you think looking at Bickham Script Pro would be relevant
    to roman text face design? Why?
  created: '2008-01-26 08:51:53'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Thomas Phinney -- <cite>Caflisch Script Pro is great, too, but nowhere near
    as cool (albeit more of a pioneer).</cite>\r\n\r\nSpeaking of best-of, Bickham
    Pro may be the choice. (And as regards technical solutions one can always learn
    from Adobe.)\r\nSpeaking of pioneers, I consider Caflisch Script as more important.
    Not so much because it was first in terms of publication date, but because it
    was the first* typeface where contextual alternates and ligatures are really essential
    -- it would not be the same <em>design</em> without them. (Apple Zapfino and even
    Bickham Pro may do without contextual alternates and still be Apple Zapfino and
    Bickham Pro.)\r\n\r\n* The first? One of the first? I don't know exact dates."
  created: '2008-01-26 22:07:10'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Caflisch Script Pro was indeed the first *OpenType* typeface to make significant
    use of contextual alternates, contextual ligatures, and big multi-letter ligatures
    (like \"offi\"). It was bundled with InDesign 2.0, which was the first significant
    application to support such features. Bickham Script Pro shipped a year and a
    half later, with InDesign CS(1).\r\n\r\n(Of course, the GX version of Zapfino
    may pre-date even Caflisch Script Pro, but the question was about OpenType pioneers.)\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-01-27 01:19:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Both Thomas (Hypatia) and Karsten (Tiptoe) have done interesting, dare one
    say pioneering, work with Stylistic Sets, pushing the notion of what constitutes
    a typeface (as if OpenType itself didn't call that into question).\r\n\r\nStylistic
    Sets is the youngest OpenType feature, a proliferation of the initial Stylistic
    Alternate feature, and it appears to be turning into the conceptual key that a
    type designer can use to manage the multiple potentialities of an emerging type
    design.\r\n\r\nI'm developing Stylistic Sets in the Modern Suite to manage varying
    degrees of historicism in the Greek characters as defined by Unicode. Thomas has
    done a similar thing enabling the Hypatia user to pick a point on the axis between
    old style and modern, by applying overlays of Stylistic Sets.\r\n\r\nTiptoe offers
    its users the Stylistic Set of \"Typographic Spacing\", which increases space
    between word and punctuation, word and guillemet, word and index numeral, currency
    symbol and numeral. That's like alternate kerning.\r\n\r\nIn some ways, Stylistic
    Sets are like the axes of the Multiple Master format, but the infinitely variable
    nature of that technology always bothered me. With the alternates in Stylistic
    Sets, each glyph is carefully considered by its designer, and the typography consequently
    more purposeful.\r\n\r\nTipToe also has fractions that align differently in oldstyle
    and lining context. It seems to me that this kind of nuancing, of the way that
    a large font can be organized by its designer into different groups of characters,
    and alternates made which optimize the relationships between members of different
    groups, is a great and subtle potential of OpenType.\r\n\r\nThe Case feature is
    a prime example of this: initially it was implemented to allow different punctuation
    for all-caps (e.g. raised parentheses).  But now a designer can add typeface-specific
    content to this feature. For instance, a font with default \"three-quarter\" lining
    figures, for use in U&lc and general setting, may be equipped with a cap-height
    set of lining figures weighted to the capitals. And these figures are deployed
    seamlessly when \"All Caps\" is selected by the typographer.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-27 03:18:44'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: "> Tiptoe offers its users the Stylistic Set of \u201CTypographic Spacing\u201D,
    which increases space between word and punctuation, word and guillemet, word and
    index numeral, currency symbol and numeral. That\u2019s like alternate kerning.\r\n\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    still, I could see some problems. OpenType everywhere but the users still dont
    know too much about it and amazing graphic designers never listened about what
    OT means....\r\n\r\nWhat do you think is the best way to teach a graphic designer
    that he has a powerful tool included in his app? I doubt that the pdfs any designer
    could do to include with the font are enough... ok... maybe should be another
    topic..."
  created: '2008-01-29 12:34:40'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Very true!\r\nThere are OT features. And then there is the real world: \"I
    cannot find the small caps font in the font menu!\" Layout applications, including
    InDesign, don't make it easy for designers to even <em>find</em> OpenType features,
    and it is not much helpful if Small Caps are in one menu while All Small Caps
    are in another one ...\r\nHow to teach designers is a good question. Currently
    I like Adobe's short how-to videos. I fear that designers who by definition should
    be creative and ahead of their time, are pretty conservative when it comes to
    the tools they use.\r\n\r\nSo my attempt is to make things work as automatic as
    possible. The differently aligning fractions are part of the Oldstyle/Lining numeral
    features. And I still hope that the punctuation spacing functionality which Nick
    mentions one day will be an option in layout applications -- it is part of the
    typographer's and not of the type designer's domain, and should allow the typographer
    some adjustments. (With this in mind it is located in a Stylistic Set feature
    and thus is optional.)"
  created: '2008-01-29 13:28:33'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Looking at the font in question; I see that my question about Bickham Script
    was pretty silly. Sorry about that.\r\n\r\nAle, Karsten. Well put."
  created: '2008-01-29 16:27:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>What do you think is the best way to teach a graphic designer that he
    has a powerful tool included in his app?</em>\r\n\r\nClone <a href=\"http://www.thetypestudio.com/workshops.html\">Ilene.</a>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-29 17:43:28'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "Opentype firsts from P22:\r\n(I believe these to be firsts)\r\n<a href=\"http://www.p22.com/ihof/mystic.html\">Mystic
    Pro</a> - First font with fortune telling capability\r\n<a href=\"http://www.p22.com/ihof/operinaset.html\">
    Operina Pro</a> - First auto roman numeral feature\r\n<a href=\"http://p22.com/musicfont/\">Music
    font</a> - First text to music notation chord assembler (not yet released)\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.p22.com/ihof/vale.html\">Vale Pro</a> - First Olde Englishe
    feature\r\n<a href=\"http://www.p22.com/products/declarationpro.html\">Declaration
    Pro</a> - First \"Signers of Declaration of Independence names to actual signatures\"
    feature\r\n\r\n...and David Lemon questioned the usefulness of some of these features!"
  created: '2008-01-29 18:48:23'
date: '2008-01-23 20:08:34'
title: OpenType Pioneers and Best of

---
