---
author:
  name: Tomek Peszor
body: "Unicode is now standard, I suppose.\r\n\r\nSo every coder (typesetter too)
  needs a fixed width font\r\nwith Unicode support.\r\n\r\nCan you share your favorites?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<cite>Unicode is now standard, I suppose.</cite>\r\n\r\nStandard \u2013 what
    for?\r\n\r\nCoding languages are far behind proper typesetting, most of them accept
    nothing but good old ASCII.\r\nThere are tendencies, however, to support Unicode
    in the source code."
  created: '2008-01-24 12:52:42'
- author:
    name: Tomek Peszor
  body: "I should have wrote \u201Cstandard\u201D in quotes.\r\nFor example for newsgroups,
    e-mailing, web-pages, TeX, TTX and other soure codes.\r\nSimply \u2014 everything
    that can be edited (ie. commented)\r\nin text editor with Unicode support.\r\n\r\nI
    used Andale Mono for quite a long time,\r\nbut now I need something smarter,\r\nfor
    example with hebrew and japanese character support.\r\n\r\n-- \r\nregards,\r\nTom"
  created: '2008-01-24 13:38:10'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Tom,\r\n\r\nCan you provide a programming scenario where having all of those
    writing systems in a single font would be useful? \r\n\r\nIn the case of localizing
    a program, strings would normally be kept in a resource file, and not hard-coded.
    \r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-24 16:13:24'
- author:
    name: Tomek Peszor
  body: "Yes. For example:\r\na) writing article for Wikipedia in my my favorite text
    editor.\r\nb) preparing multilingual web page\r\n\r\nThis screenshot illustrates
    how AndaleMono and DejaVu look like in jEdit:\r\nhttp://img299.imageshack.us/my.php?image=compareandaledejavulv8.png\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    just curious what font do you use :)\r\n\r\n-- \r\nregards,\r\nTom"
  created: '2008-01-24 19:46:50'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\r\n\r\nI see, I was taking a more purist view of 'coding'. I would pick
    a font that you like best for your primary language and rely of font-fallback
    in your OS or text editor for the secondary languages. \r\n\r\nHopefully we'll
    see more apps and OS's using 'composite fonts', where the user can specify which
    font (along with scaling and baseline adjustment) to use for each Unicode range
    - rather than pick a one-size-fits-all solution.   \r\n   "
  created: '2008-01-24 19:55:43'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Simon, \r\n\r\nfor coding purposes (a monospaced linear font), a pan-Unicode
    font would actually be useful. \r\n\r\nMonotype Imaging offers <strong>Andale
    Mono WT</strong>, a pan-Unicode monospaced font with the same design as the free
    Andale Mono font. There are four versions that cover the entire Unicode 3.0 range:
    Andale Mono WT J (Japanese), Andale Mono WT K (Korean), Andale Mono WT S (Simplified
    Chinese), Andale Mono WT T (Traditional Chinese). There is also a set of two fonts:
    Andale Mono WTG and Andale Mono WTG Surrogate, with the entire Unicode 3.2 range.
    Those fonts are also distributed e.g. by Ricoh (google for Andale Mono WT for
    more details). \r\n\r\nAscender Corp. offers <strong>Ascender Uni</strong>, a
    pan-Unicode monospaced font with the entire character set of Unicode 5.0. The
    design is similar to Andale Mono. \r\n\r\nMicrosoft offers <strong>Consolas</strong>,
    a great monospaced design by Luc(as) de Groot that covers extended Latin, Cyrillic
    and Greek that has regular, italic, bold and bold italic variants (Andale Mono
    and Ascender Uni only have one regular weight). \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-24 22:38:39'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "<cite>This screenshot illustrates how AndaleMono and DejaVu look like in
    jEdit:\r\nhttp://img299.imageshack.us/my.php?image=compareandaledejavulv8.png</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's
    not Andale Mono on the left. Looks like Courier New, actually."
  created: '2008-01-24 22:51:16'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Indeed, it is not Andale Mono on that image. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2008-01-25 00:27:18'
- author:
    name: Tomek Peszor
  body: "Eeekh\u2026\r\nOf course, that\u2019s <strong>not Andale Mono</strong>. It\u2019s
    <strong>not Courier</strong> too. \r\nThat\u2019s <strong>Dialog Input</strong>
    shipped with Java Developer\u2019s Kit, which works best for me as far.\r\nUnfortunately,
    it\u2019s not a masterpiece of legiblilty.\r\nBut it replaces missing characters.\r\n\r\nI
    have found some pan-Unicode fonts listed here:\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unicode_fonts\r\n\r\nI
    have not tested <strong>Ascender Uni</strong> yet.\r\n\r\nYou can test your fonts
    on this source code:\r\nhttp://taat.pl/typografia/typografia_wiele_jezykow.html\r\n\r\nLet
    me know if it renders all characters correctly.\r\n\r\n-- \r\nregards,\r\nTom"
  created: '2008-01-25 01:02:32'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">for coding purposes (a monospaced linear font), a pan-Unicode font would
    actually be useful. \r\n\r\nCan you explain why? I can see fonts like this are
    useful for other purposes? But coding? Why?\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2008-01-25 03:54:04'
- author:
    name: Tomek Peszor
  body: "When you get database files exported from multilingual forum,\r\nyou are
    not able to edit it,\r\nbecause you are not able to distinguish characters\u2026\r\n\r\n\r\nBut
    that\u2019s not the point of this discussion :)\r\nShould we change discussion
    topic to: \u201CShould coding go for Unicode\u201D?\r\n\r\n-- \r\nregards,\r\nTom"
  created: '2008-01-25 06:58:08'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "<cite>When you get database files exported from multilingual forum, you are
    not able to edit it, because you are not able to distinguish characters\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nTrue,
    but that's not coding. HTML authoring (in your earlier example) is not coding
    either.\r\n\r\nCoding is programming; that is, it's the process of writing executable
    computer instructions (i.e., <cite>code</cite>) in a computer programming language.\r\n\r\nFor
    what it's worth, I've been coding for over two decades, and I've never had the
    need for a \"Unicode\" font in my IDE. However, I do appreciate the desire for
    a pan-Unicode font for general-purpose use, which includes HTML authoring and
    database editing.\r\n\r\nBut let's not call that a \"coding\" font."
  created: '2008-01-25 12:17:09'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Thanks Spire, that was what i was getting at. I wasn''t trying to split hairs,
    just trying to work out if there''s a business case/justification for us extending
    a monospaced font like Consolas beyond the confines of European writing systems. '
  created: '2008-01-25 18:04:23'
- author:
    name: Tomek Peszor
  body: "Suppose, I write a PHP application for \u201CHTML authoring\u201D.\r\nThen
    I have to insert comment:\r\n\r\n// prints typography in ukrainian\r\necho '\u0422\u0438\u043F\u043E\u0433\u0440\u0430\u0444\u0456\u044F';\r\n//
    prints typography in japanese\r\necho '\u30BF\u30A4\u30DD\u30B0\u30E9\u30D5\u30A3';\r\n\r\n\r\nYou
    probably call this not a program, but a script.\r\nBut I might do the same in
    C++.\r\n\r\n-- \r\nregards,\r\nTom"
  created: '2008-01-26 21:01:12'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "PHP counts as coding, so your example certainly would benefit from having
    a pan-Unicode font that supports all the varied characters that you might want
    to use in your literal strings.\r\n\r\nHowever, as Simon said earlier, it's generally
    a bad idea to hard-code literal strings in code. The preferred way to handle all
    language-specific strings is to define them in a separate resource file and then
    write code to select the appropriate strings to use depending on context. That
    way, the code itself is always straight ASCII, and internationalization becomes
    much easier."
  created: '2008-01-27 03:50:13'
- author:
    name: Tomek Peszor
  body: "Yes, for big projects this techniques are named i18n and L10n.\r\nThen, you
    store all language strings in separate files, as in library.\r\n\r\nBut even then,
    when you want to take a look on that strings,\r\nyou have to switch between fonts
    if you don't have a pan-Unicode one.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I still haven't found what
    I'm looking for :)\r\n\r\n-- \r\nregards,\r\nTom"
  created: '2008-01-27 11:01:20'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Tomek, \r\n\r\nany problems with the links I have given? \r\n\r\nSimon, Spire,
    \r\n\r\nI don't understand why you're trying to prove Tomek that there's something
    wrong with his concept. \r\n\r\nMuch of modern \"HTML authoring\" is synonymous
    with \"development of web applications\" -- that of course *is* coding because
    it as it often includes AJAX/JavaScript on the client side plus PHP or Java on
    the server side. \r\n\r\nNot all development projects involve \"localization\"
    or \"internationalization\". If you operate under the presumption that the default
    language is English and anything else is \"international\", this may be true.
    But just as easily, people develop web or desktop applications in a language that
    is not English, but they don't plan to localize or internationalize either. If
    I develop a website in Hebrew or Russian or Arabic or Japanese only, I simply
    want to type texts in that language in the source code. And if I'm writing and
    debugging a console application, or a Python script, I need a Unicode monospaced
    font, be it just for the console debugging output. \r\n\r\nIn fact, I have been
    using Andale Mono WT for quite some time for the purpose of developing Python
    scripts within FontLab Studio. The Output panel (a text-only console) works with
    monospaced fonts and I often need to output Unicode text to it. \r\n\r\nI must
    admit that I find the notion that \"code should be ASCII only\" very antiquated.
    I've been using UTF-8 for my source code in Python for several years now. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-27 13:55:21'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "Adam, I'm not trying to prove to Tomek that there's something wrong with
    his concept. In fact, I've repeatedly been saying that I appreciate his desire
    for a pan-Unicode font.\r\n\r\nI've merely been trying to explain why there isn't
    already a wide range of pan-Unicode fonts available for use in coding: it's because
    most programmers have no use for non-ASCII characters in their actual source code.\r\n\r\nYou
    say that you find the notion that \"code should be ASCII only\" very antiquated.
    Conversely, I find the notion that code should contained hard-coded literal strings
    very antiquated. We are both right, when taken in different contexts.\r\n\r\nYour
    earlier post was been very helpful -- to me as well. In particular, I hadn't heard
    of Ascender Uni, and in fact I'm pretty excited to learn of it. I've been wanting
    a good pan-Unicode monospaced font for a long time (albeit for another purpose).\r\n\r\nEdward"
  created: '2008-01-27 18:16:44'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Spire, \r\n\r\nThe concept that some plain-text files should use different
    encoding than others *is* antiquated, no matter what. In future, it only makes
    sense that plain-text files (even programming source code) are encoded using Unicode
    \u2014 even if a certain document format or programming language restricts the
    character set used for certain aspects, e.g. object names. \r\n\r\nBut whether
    string literals should be intermixed with programming code or externalized depends
    on the type of application. If the application is text-intense and only contains
    comparably little programming code (i.e. it is more like a document with elements
    of a program, e.g. a dynamic web page) *and* it will only be deployed in a single
    language, then I think externalizing strings makes little sense. It becomes useful
    only in scenarios where you have a large overhead of programming code over text,
    or when you're developing for i18n scenarios. \r\n\r\nAs you well know, XML can
    use any Unicode characters for element and attribute names. So you may use an
    XML document structure that looks like this: \r\n\r\n<code>&lt;?xml version=&quot;1.0&quot;
    encoding=&quot;UTF-8&quot;?&gt;<br />\r\n&lt;authors&gt;<br />\r\n&lt;author type=&quot;main&quot;&gt;<br
    />\r\n&lt;firstname&gt;\u042E\u0440\u0438\u0439&lt;/firstname&gt;<br />\r\n&lt;lastname&gt;\u042F\u0440\u043C\u043E\u043B\u0430&lt;/lastname&gt;<br
    />\r\n&lt;/author&gt;<br />\r\n&lt;author&gt;<br />\r\n&lt;firstname&gt;Adam&lt;/firstname&gt;<br
    />\r\n&lt;lastname&gt;Twardoch&lt;/lastname&gt;<br />\r\n&lt;/author&gt;<br />\r\n&lt;/authors&gt;</code>\r\n\r\nBut
    others may prefer to define their document structure as follows: \r\n\r\n<code>&lt;?xml
    version=&quot;1.0&quot; encoding=&quot;UTF-8&quot;?&gt;<br />\r\n&lt;\u0430\u0432\u0442\u043E\u0440\u044B&gt;<br
    />\r\n&lt;\u0430\u0432\u0442\u043E\u0440 \u0442\u0438\u043F=&quot;\u0433\u043B\u0430\u0432\u043D\u044B\u0439&quot;&gt;<br
    />\r\n&lt;\u0438\u043C\u044F&gt;\u042E\u0440\u0438\u0439&lt;/\u0438\u043C\u044F&gt;<br
    />\r\n&lt;\u0444\u0430\u043C\u0438\u043B\u0438\u044F&gt;\u042F\u0440\u043C\u043E\u043B\u0430&lt;/\u0444\u0430\u043C\u0438\u043B\u0438\u044F&gt;<br
    />\r\n&lt;/\u0430\u0432\u0442\u043E\u0440&gt;<br />\r\n&lt;\u0430\u0432\u0442\u043E\u0440&gt;<br
    />\r\n&lt;\u0438\u043C\u044F&gt;Adam&lt;/\u0438\u043C\u044F&gt;<br />\r\n&lt;\u0444\u0430\u043C\u0438\u043B\u0438\u044F&gt;Twardoch&lt;/\u0444\u0430\u043C\u0438\u043B\u0438\u044F&gt;<br
    />\r\n&lt;/\u0430\u0432\u0442\u043E\u0440&gt;<br />\r\n&lt;/\u0430\u0432\u0442\u043E\u0440\u044B&gt;</code>\r\n\r\nBoth
    are valid XML structures, and it depends purely on the linguistic context which
    one will be chosen. The English language still holds some privileged position
    in electronic information processing, but this is changing. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2008-01-27 19:12:36'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: There is also a great benefit for non English programmers using Unicode, because
    you can program in your native language with all characters, not only the ASCII
    ones. Well, at least if compiler supports that:)
  created: '2008-01-27 21:04:50'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "Adam, I'm not sure what the argument is still about. I did acknowledge in
    my earlier post that you were correct. I think we each understand what the other
    is saying at this point.\r\n\r\nIn response to your last post, I'll just add that
    document encoding and actual character use are two separate issues. I never said
    that ASCII encoding was still a good thing; in fact, I definitely agree that it's
    antiquated and really needs to be phased out already. But even if the entire world
    magically switched overnight to, say, UTF-8-encoding for all text files (including
    all source code), I think most programmers would still have little use for non-ASCII
    characters in their actual code.\r\n\r\nI think the whole reason this thread got
    sidetracked is that Simon and I were both surprised and taken aback by Tomek's
    categorical claim that \"every coder... needs a fixed width font with Unicode
    support\".\r\n\r\nIn any case, the bottom line is that pan-Unicode fonts are a
    Good Thing, regardless of what they might be used for.\r\n\r\nEdward"
  created: '2008-01-27 23:11:33'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I have a unicode programmers font I am developing. It has been called \"software
    developer\" but it's name is going to change. It supports all the Latin Glyphs
    including extended Latin A & B but it lacks Cyrillic, Greek, Japanese and Chinese.
    Maybe I will add these over time. Okay maybe not the Japanese; apart from maybe
    Hiragana & Katakana. And I almost certainly not the Chinese unless I get lots
    of help somehow.\r\n\r\nTomek, Adam, Si ( & whoever else cares to comment) what
    gyph coverage would you suggest is going to add the most utility beyond the Latin?
    And in what order? \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-28 23:20:03'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "I'm very happy to hear that you're continuing to make progress on Software
    Developer!\r\n\r\nMy preference would be to have Cyrillic and Greek first, and
    then CJK."
  created: '2008-01-29 05:31:59'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks! \r\n\r\nI should be done by now but other projects come up & displace
    it... \r\n\r\nI am going to get it out though! Probably as Latin at first and
    then with time I will make a 1.5 & 2.0 versions with additional glyphs for Cyrillic
    and Greek.\r\n\r\nWhile I am asking questions I may as well ask what environment
    you work in & about what rendering scheme you work in."
  created: '2008-01-29 07:25:25'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "For Consolas we shipped with Latin, Greek and Cyrillic. we're expanding this
    to cover extended Latin, Poly Greek and Extended Cyrillic in the next update.
    We want to avoid adding Hebrew, Arabic and Thai if we possibly can, but that's
    the general direction we'd be pulled in for all core fonts. \r\n\r\nWith respect
    to CJK, these are predominantly fixed-pitch to start with, so rather than add
    these to a monster font, I'd be inclined to add good developer-centric Latin,
    Greek and Cyrillic coverage to good CHS, CHT, Korean and Japanese base fonts."
  created: '2008-01-29 19:32:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Si where should I look for a good Greek Cyrillic or Hebrew Mono as a reference?
  created: '2008-01-29 20:12:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Hmm, I'd have to ask around.
  created: '2008-01-29 20:25:00'
- author:
    name: Tomek Peszor
  body: "Nice to hear, that while I was curing my flu,\r\ndiscussion continued and
    all controversial points have been cleared out.\r\n\r\nThank you Adam for your
    tips.\r\nI have Consolas installed with Vista. Looks clear and nice, but the range
    is too small.\r\nI\u2019ve been testing some time ago Andale Mono WT J and WT
    S, but the same thing as above.\r\n\r\nAscender Uni is very promising.\r\n\r\nEben,\r\nmaybe
    you\u2019ll take a look at those glyphs for a reference?\r\nhttp://www.fontmarketplace.com/font/ascender-uni.aspx/301\r\n\r\nSpeaking
    of ranges: I\u2019d like to have all Slavic, Cyrillic, Greek, Hebrew, Arabic,
    simplified and extended Chineese, Korean and Japanese, Unicode ligatures and typographic
    symbols.\r\nThat\u2019s a lot of work to do\u2026\r\n\r\nNow I use open source
    editor named jEdit, written in Java, on both, Linux and Windows. It works great
    on Mac too. The only font which displayed all the characters I needed was DialogInput
    so far.\r\n\r\n-- \r\nregards,\r\nTom"
  created: '2008-01-29 22:44:16'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Have you considered asking the "jEdit" folks to support user-definable fonts
    for each Unicode range? '
  created: '2008-01-29 23:11:39'
- author:
    name: mcswell
  body: "I realize this is a defunct discussion, but I feel compelled.\r\n\r\nDefining
    coding as creating something that gets compiled into an executable is a rather
    narrow definition.  As a computational linguist, I do things which I consider
    to be coding, but which do not get converted into executables per se.  One of
    these things is to code finite state transducers for various human languages,
    using tools like the Xerox and Stuttgart Finite State Transducers (xfst and sfst
    respectively).  I have also done coding in XML, where the XML is intended to be
    converted into the programming language of one of these FSTs.  Once in awhile
    I've programmed things in Python (and co-workers have done so in Perl or even
    C) to modify the XML code for these FSTs or for dictionaries, and occasionally
    it's necessary to embed Unicode characters in these programs--not as strings to
    appear in dialog boxes or such like, but as parts of strings or regular expressions
    that the Python etc. code needs find in the XML and modify.  \r\n\r\nApart from
    C, all these programming languages use interpreters.\r\n\r\nThe human languages
    we work with have included Bengali, Arabic and Urdu (Urdu uses the Arabic code
    range of Unicode).  I wouldn't be surprised if we worked with other Indic languages
    in the future, and Ethiopic languages are not out of the question.\r\n\r\nI regularly
    use jEdit or Visual Slickedit for writing these programs; some of my co-workers
    use emacs.  We also use XMLmind, although that is mostly for DocBook-type XML,
    which I suppose you don't consider to be coding.\r\n\r\nSo I think I feel safe
    in calling what I and my co-workers do \"coding\", even though it does not always
    result in executables.  Hard-coding literal strings is really the only option
    for these programs, especially for the FSTs where the whole point is to deal with
    dozens or even hundreds of such strings in the morphology and phonology of these
    languages.  We certainly use programmers' editors, and at least jEdit does not
    \"support user-definable fonts for each Unicode range\".  (I asked a couple months
    ago, and it's probably at the bottom of their priority list.)\r\n\r\n  Mike Maxwell"
  created: '2008-10-15 03:47:21'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Eventually I will probably make my mono support Ethiopic but it will be another
    2- 3 years I think. I am not sure about the others but maaaybe. Some glyph sets
    will not be good in mono no matter what you do. Urdu probably falls into that
    camp. '
  created: '2008-10-16 03:32:52'
- author:
    name: _vim
  body: "I'm amazed how many people here are saying that a unicode font is unnecessary
    for \"coding.\" \r\n\r\nSome of us out here actually have to deal with multiple
    languages IN CODE (not HTML) on a daily basis. For example, parsing Asian text
    using a regex. Or Asian developers who might actually comment their code in their
    native languages -- and on and on. Just because _you_ haven't had to deal with
    this stuff doesn't mean that others don't -- more than a billion of us, in fact.\r\n\r\nFYI,
    I came here looking for a better-looking fixed-width unicode font for gvim because
    I often deal with source code that includes Japanese for various reasons. \r\n
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-12 04:29:49'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Surely there are some... didn't MS build one that's half decent? But what
    OS do you want it for? If it's Linux then you must be out of luck. No proper rendering
    engines!
  created: '2008-11-16 01:17:10'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Many Japanese fonts are mostly fixed pitch, but no we've not made a \"coding\"
    font for Japanese. If there were a market I\u2019m sure someone would have or
    already has."
  created: '2008-11-16 02:26:29'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: So then I suppose that if you wanted to you could take a coding font and merge
    it with a MS Japanese font ( you would want to scale the latin to match the Japanese
    I think... )  - as long as it didn't violate the EULA. If it did you might be
    able to look on the Adobe side of the aisle. Now I wish I knew more about rendering
    for Japanese. It strikes me that the adobe fonts are probably less screen and
    more print oriented.. Maybe that's wrong as well. But what about local makers.
    When I was in Japan in the late 80's there no shortage ( seemingly ) of Japanese
    fonts in a variety of styles and especially ones which were screen oriented. But
    maybe they are NEC specific or something. Then again I wasn't a font nut yet.
    Maybe they are not great... I look forward to hearing more about this from somebody
    with more of an insider's view. Perhaps increasing screen rez will also make the
    problem less acute as well.
  created: '2008-11-16 19:39:07'
- author:
    name: roger_pearse
  body: "I stumbled on this discussion with much interest.\r\n\r\nI'm currently trying
    to work with Jim Tauber's MorphGNT text file (a standard in Greek New Testament
    coding).  \r\n\r\nThis file consists of all the words of the Greek New Testament,
    one per line, with the part of speech (noun/verb) and other grammatical info.
    \ At the end of the line, in polytonic Greek unicode characters, is the word,
    and the 'dictionary' form of that word.\r\n\r\nI think he must be editing this
    file in Unix, because I can't find a unicode fixed width font that will display
    this file correctly on Windows.  Courier New just gives square boxes against the
    characters that have accents over them.\r\n\r\nConsolas doesn't do the job, sadly.\r\n\r\nIs
    there any chance that it can be enhanced to support polytonic Greek characters?"
  created: '2008-11-25 10:22:41'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> Courier New\r\n\r\nAre you using the 5.x version of the font? The one that
    comes with Vista. It should contain all of the pre-composed characters for Latin
    and Greek.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si "
  created: '2008-11-25 14:46:08'
- author:
    name: roger_pearse
  body: Thanks for the suggestion.  I'm afraid that we're still on XP, but good to
    know that you're already on this problem.
  created: '2008-11-26 08:25:43'
- author:
    name: roger_pearse
  body: "Further to this, I posted about my experiences at my blog [[http://www.roger-pearse.com/weblog/?p=559|here]].
    \ One of the comments suggested that a number of free fixed-width unicode fonts
    exist:\r\n\r\nI was told:\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\nDejaVu Sans Mono: [[http://sourceforge.net/projects/dejavu/]]\r\nEverson
    Mono: [[http://www.evertype.com/emono/]]\r\nFreeMono: [[http://www.gnu.org/software/freefont/]]\r\nGNU
    Unifont: [[http://unifoundry.com/unifont.html]]\r\n\r\nare all fixed-width and
    support Unicode polytonic Greek (although some aren\u2019t the most attractive
    fonts).\r\n\r\nGood resources for this sort of thing:\r\n[[http://www.alanwood.net/unicode/fonts.html]]\r\n[[http://www.unifont.org/fontguide/]]\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nI've
    not had a chance to try any of these, but any thoughts would be interesting."
  created: '2008-12-06 20:44:29'
- author:
    name: roger_pearse
  body: DejaVu Sans Mono, FreeMono and Unifont did not work with SuperEdi, the text
    editor I was using. Everson Mono worked, but looked awful.  It was about tolerable
    at 12pt.
  created: '2008-12-09 15:30:21'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I don''t think <A HREF="http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=lurker">lurker</A>
    is the right definition for me, but I''ve been called worse, so I''ll let it slide. '
  created: '2008-12-09 17:32:23'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Lurker.... indeed. It's not quite on the money.
  created: '2008-12-09 17:56:28'
date: '2008-01-24 11:06:33'
node_type: forum
title: Unicode programmer font

---
