---
author:
  name: lindsay noble
  picture: 112350
body: "Hia\r\n\r\n\r\nIf memory is the brain function that records information, stores
  it as data and recalls said retained data, how would you describe your own memory
  system? What does it look like, how does it work\r\n\r\npersonally I think I view
  mine structurally similar to the universe, with a ga-billion-trillion stars, clustered
  together at various points, with no sides or end. and when i recall a memory a selection
  of stars all very far apart are joined together through connecting lines, drawing
  information from far and wide to bring together the information i have requested.\r\n\r\nThere
  must be so many different imaginative ways people view their own mind\r\n\r\n\r\nLindsayy"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "My memory is a recalcitrant subordinate/child who won't do as told.\r\n\"I
    thought I told you to retrieve that information. And you still don't have it?\"
    \r\nTo my chagrin, it's usually easier to put a name to a type face than a person
    face.\r\nFaceBook -- is that like FontBook?"
  created: '2008-01-24 18:50:15'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/thumbnail_6213.jpg]'
  created: '2008-01-24 18:52:24'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I have no idea about the structure, but I consider my memory as one of my
    biggest assets. It is very good on most subjects, but like Nick I am very bad
    at people's names. That doesn't bother me a bit and I think somewhere down the
    line it might be a matter of priorities.\r\n\r\nI am a pretty good speller. In
    a language as irregular as English I think that's mostly a matter of memorization.
    That being said I'll probably put a clunker in this post\u2026\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-01-24 18:57:00'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: 'I see my memory in my rear view mirror, heading the other way. '
  created: '2008-01-24 19:03:51'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: The computer model virus got me in the eighties. So, short term is RAM and
    long term is HD. Science has provided us the realization that 70% of long term
    (older than two weeks) is largely recreated. Now if the legal system catches up
    it will have a real problem with any testimony older than two weeks.
  created: '2008-01-24 19:05:22'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I view my memory as a supermassive relational database in which any request
    for information is multiplied by the current value of /dev/random. As a result
    of this I tend to think and speak in segue, which leads people to assume that
    I\u2019m not right in the head. Fortunately my /dev/random isn\u2019t a true random
    number generator; its output is based on information gathered from the ebb and
    flow of the cosmic background radiation, so it tends to produce results that are
    oddly relevant.\r\n\r\nThis would be a great topic for design observer. I would
    love to see what kind of answers came out the Pentagram crowd."
  created: '2008-01-24 19:10:31'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I just go to \"About My Brain\" under the apple menu and it tells me how
    much hard drive I have left.\r\n\r\nSeriously, tho, I wish I could get rid of
    some of the dross that's taking up space (e.g. song lyrics from 70s AM radio,
    ex-boyfriends' phone numbers) and replace it with new and useful information.
    Then defrag, optimize, repair permissions, etc."
  created: '2008-01-24 19:28:27'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: Before college, my brain was a well oiled machine, recalling memories and
    remembering both short term/long term with little problem. After college it's
    a jumbled mess of loose sheets dashed across an ever expanding desk. Crumpled
    memories in the bin, and a few stuck in the shredder. Don't even talk to me about
    short term... I've already forgot what we were talking about.
  created: '2008-01-24 19:50:35'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Memory, what's that? Can you remind me?
  created: '2008-01-24 19:51:13'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>I am a pretty good speller. In a language as irregular as English I think
    that\u2019s mostly a matter of memorization.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd really, I would guess,
    a matter of visual pattern recognition and attention to visual detail. Which raises
    the questions:\r\n\r\nDo type designers tend to be better spellers than the average
    person? \r\n\r\nor, \r\n\r\nDo better type designers tend to be better spellers
    than the average type designer?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-24 19:54:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Do better type designers tend to be better spellers than the average type
    designer?\r\n\r\nA spelling bee at TypeCon! \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-24 19:57:50'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: Scratch N' Sniff type!
  created: '2008-01-24 20:26:33'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "I'm with Jupiterboy . . . I think of it this way . . .\r\n\r\nThere is a
    default basic logic board that defines basic things like function, and it parses
    about 5 seconds of thought . . .\r\n\r\nRAM starts as soon as thought becomes
    action or deeper thoughts and it continues to build until it resets itself and
    new RAM begins . . .\r\n\r\nEach RAM is then stored in long term memory and is
    simultaneously categorized and subcategorized . . .\r\n\r\nWhen active RAM realizes
    it needs more information, it performs a contextual search first through specific
    keywords, then subcategories, then categories and weighted results are returned
    to active RAM as it continues to work on the thought at hand . . .\r\n\r\nI actually
    drew up a basic schematic for a Human OS after a few days of thinking about this
    . . .\r\n\r\nThat said, I don't believe there is a need for fragmentation, overloads,
    etc and that there is simply a never ending container for RAM and that all RAM
    is compiled RAM meaning we never have to start from scratch thinking about breathing,
    etc . . .\r\n\r\nI think as we age, the logic board becomes refined and more elegant
    as well as more defined meaning it prefers not to change and may start to feed
    back RAM as it is recalled with editorial notations rather than simply being recalled
    as it precisely happened . . .\r\n\r\nThe concept becomes more believable to me
    as I watch how my children learn and grow . . .\r\n\r\n:D"
  created: '2008-01-24 21:10:12'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Loved your answer, Patty!
  created: '2008-01-24 21:18:35'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Thanks Ricardo. I think I have middle aged Alzheimers. Honestly I can never
    remember, for example, the html required to make a link in a typophile post, I
    always post it as a separate link. My brain *should* be able to process and store
    that kind of info, no? And yet? I still remember the MAILING ADDRESS of my high
    school boyfriend. Or here's another one: on myfonts just now the words \"Oh What
    a Night\" popped up when I looked for the font Candace. Yep, I'm singing away
    and remember the whole damn song. Completely useless. \r\n\r\nGonna need reading
    glasses too..."
  created: '2008-01-24 21:26:04'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Show us your schematic Stuart, if you don't mind. I really love to see people's
    visual representations of head space. It is such an interesting thing to try and
    do, and the results are always very entertaining.
  created: '2008-01-24 21:34:00'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Patty you should consider getting <a href="http://www.smileonmymac.com/textexpander/index.html">TextExpander</a>.
    I love it. All I have to do is type "," and "a" and it enters the a href information.
  created: '2008-01-24 23:18:38'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "My brain is like a giant sponge --- James and the Giant Sponge. I never pay
    attention, but somehow I absorb massive amounts of information. Sometimes I wake
    up and I'm not really sure if I'm in the right room, but other than that I'm fine.\r\n\r\nEverything
    I experience, everything that happens to me causes physical changes in the structure
    of my brain known as axon modelling. Axons connect themselves to the dendrites
    of other brain cells. That's what brain scientists reckon anyway, that there is
    an actual physical basis for memory.\r\n\r\nSure. Put money on it ;^)\r\n\r\nI'm
    a rather average speller and monolinguistic. You see how my mind works---it's
    like a lazaaar! It wants to constantly break down corrupted and atrophied English
    language spellings.\r\n\r\nGenerally I make a conscious effort to exist in a parallel
    taste-free universe. I try to make connections with the collective consciousness
    of the 19th and 18th centuries when a lot of things were still sharp and furry.
    \r\n\r\nAlmost a year ago I came very, very close to dying when two arteries inside
    my brain burst. They repaired the arteries with stents and installed a shunt tube
    in the rear of my cranium to alleviate fluid pressure on my brain. That makes
    me part Borg, .05% assimilated. No contact with any Borg cubes yet.\r\n\r\nj a
    m e s"
  created: '2008-01-24 23:34:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My memory is kinda like my bookshelves, chock full of stuff--which sometimes
    falls out and hits you but mostly kind lies there in disarray unless it is pun
    related. Then, it flies out at you without ever being requested. My spelling is
    in great need of such things as spell-check. I never remember names but infinitesimal
    details spew out like a leaky faucet.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mybookshelf_5282.JPG]\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-24 23:40:04'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Gonna need reading glasses too...</em>\r\n\r\nI'm already using those!
    :-D\r\n\r\nAs for my own memory, I am better at remembering faces than names,
    for example. My father liked to say that he had a photographic memory, and I feel
    like I am wired the same way. \r\n\r\nOn the other hand, and this is why I liked
    Patty's response, I too can remember things like the song order (not to mention
    lyrics!) of certain albums I listened to as a teenager, but forget things I did
    or read a couple of nights ago. It really does seem that once you have a certain
    amount of knowledge stored in your memory, there is less \"space\" (or gray matter)
    for new stuff. I want an external hard drive!\r\n\r\nAlso: a friend of mine and
    I were wondering the other night about whether having so much info available online
    makes people less prone to remember things... This friend always remarks that
    I am good at remembering names of movie directors, writers, actors, etc., but
    lately, I've been stuck on certain ones. Since my use of the Internet has been
    increasing lately, we were wondering if both things were related."
  created: '2008-01-24 23:49:24'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>mostly kind lies there in disarray unless it is pun related</em>\r\n\r\nROTFL,
    Chris. I like the exception!"
  created: '2008-01-24 23:52:02'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Memory>\r\n\r\nBeing a Luddite, in spirit, if not actually, I see it as a
    series of giant, but cramped and badly lit rooms, full of dusty filing cabinets.
    There are hundreds and hundreds of half-literate urchins running around, rifling
    through massive drawers full of unsorted sheaves of paper tied together with string,
    trying desperately to fill randomly generated orders, while in other rooms wheezy
    old scribes sit at row after row of Bob Cratchit style desks feverishly writing
    down everything that I hear, say, feel and smell in a scratchy, ink spattered
    and smeared Bickham script, while teams of draughtsmen in yet another room peer
    out my eyes through quaint looking brass telescopes with smudged poorly ground
    lenses and draw maps and diagrams of every thing I see. The urchins bundle these
    up, not bothering to sort in any way, fasten them with string, run off to the
    filing cabinets and stuff them in, where ever they can find room. The floors are
    knee deep in loose papers. Retrieved documents are spread out on huge tables where
    teams of professorial looking gentlemen in frock coats and nineteenth century
    army uniforms try and make sense of it all, inferring strange connections between
    completely unrelated documents, with no particular respect for logic or common
    sense.\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-01-25 00:02:13'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>Honestly I can never remember, for example, the html required to make
    a link in a typophile post, I always post it as a separate link.</em>\r\n\r\nLuckily
    you can just type [ [ url | text you want as link ] ], without the spaces, to
    make a good link. That is  easier to memorize then the html-crap.\r\n\r\nOn topic:\r\n\r\nMy
    memory is actually quite good. For most things anyway. For example, I don't have
    an agenda/appointment book (whatever it's called). I just remember appointments,
    dates and times."
  created: '2008-01-25 00:27:30'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I think of memory as a large, muddy field. Your memories are like tracks
    made by a bicycle. Each track (memory) has a certain shape and location. When
    you remember something, you ride through the path again. Paths that cross are
    like when we make associations. Rehearsed memories are deeper, like riding over
    the same path over and over with the bike. Earlier memories are also deeper because
    the mud was softer when they were made. The mud in the field tends to harden over
    time (never completely, unless you get something like Alzheimer's), making it
    harder to make new paths. Plus, more experiences you have, the more paths there
    are, the harder they are to find.\r\n\r\nAnyway, that's how I visualize it."
  created: '2008-01-25 01:44:43'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>That makes me part Borg, .05% assimilated. No contact with any Borg
    cubes yet.</em>\r\n\r\nlol! I only just read that. That is actually quite funny.
    :D"
  created: '2008-01-25 04:05:13'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> how would you describe your own memory system? What does it look like,
    how does it work\r\n\r\n\r\nBig trouble. photographic memory, or whatever is the
    right term. "
  created: '2008-01-25 04:08:45'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Jelmar -- hee-hee. I'm not a huge fan of Star Trek but the Borg and Voyager
    are fascinating, especially Geri Ryan as the rehumanized Borg named Seven of nine.
    Very spunky woman. I love the idea of space travel too.\r\n\r\nIt's a bit freaky
    knowing there are two small titanium mesh cylinders embedded in the middle of
    my brain.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-25 04:32:41'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Mark - I agree with you, it's about the synapses, the paths taken. These paths
    lead to associations which are often surprising - how you may draw up some image
    or piece of information long buried. I don't tend to see it as bike paths as much
    as some sort of network. I do believe that everything we have learned remains
    with us, but what we lose, sometimes, is access to it.
  created: '2008-01-25 04:34:33'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Mark's interconnecting bicycle track analogy is \"much like\" the way axon
    modelling works. Google reckons it's really called <strong><a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Axon_guidance\"
    target=\"_new\">Axon Guidance</a></strong>.\r\n\r\nThe Wikipedia article looks
    half decent, altho it has no references or cited sources.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-25 05:05:53'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>A spelling bee at TypeCon!</em>\r\n\r\nOnly if both 'Murrican and Anglophile
    spellings are accepted (\"Anglophile\" being common forms found in most Commonwealth
    countries -- U.K., Canuckistan, the Antipodes, etc.)....  ;-)"
  created: '2008-01-25 05:53:49'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Canuckistan, the Antipodes</em>\r\n\r\n;-D\r\n\r\n\r\nAre you talking
    about the colour grey, typophilic neighbour?"
  created: '2008-01-25 07:46:24'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "Like amateur stitching. \r\n\r\nWhen I'm learning something, all the time
    I spend developing or using that skill it's like I'm adding more random stitches,
    reenforcing the jumble of tread, tightening the knot. \r\n\r\nAll the time I spend
    not doing something, or accessing certain pieces of information allows the stitching
    to loosen, come undone, wear away. "
  created: '2008-01-25 13:29:28'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "James -- hehe, Voyager was pretty good. The concept was different from the
    other series, with them being stranded in the Delta Quadrant.\r\n\r\nI can imagine
    that the titanium cylinders must be a strange idea."
  created: '2008-01-25 14:51:10'
- author:
    name: emax
    picture: 113883
  body: "This has been a very interesting read.\r\n\r\nIt makes me wonder how people
    view other abstract subjects.\r\n\r\nFor example, I tend to picture a year as
    a large disc with imprinted months/weeks, which serves as a base for various objects
    which float above to indicate events and activities.\r\nThe event icons are rather
    OS X in style... \r\n\r\nAs for my memory... it resembles a teenager's bedroom
    with massive heaps scattered about containing all of the information I've accumulated.
    Some heaps are more organized than others.\r\nI guess this is what happens when
    you don't listen to you mom telling you to clean your room..."
  created: '2008-01-25 17:29:14'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I've always appreciated this piece of work by Antero Ali, although he would
    be the first to note that it is not original.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Antero_6431.gif]"
  created: '2008-01-25 17:52:47'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[[http://www.galleryyujiro.com/Liaperjovschi/lia1.html|Lia Perjovschi]] is
    a contemporary artist who is doing some similar (though messier) \"mind maps.\"\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/today_5770.jpg]"
  created: '2008-01-25 18:30:00'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/phrenology_6731.jpg]'
  created: '2008-01-25 22:39:14'
- author:
    name: lindsay noble
    picture: 112350
  body: "theres a book called metaphors we live by (which i havent actually read,
    though its in the post) which examines how we use metaphors in everyday life to
    comprehend abstract concepts  such as memory. \r\n\r\nI love how visual all the
    personal systems are  - perhaps thats because people who like type are very visual.
    I should ask on a maths-o-phile site, see if they think in numbers.\r\n\r\nlindsayy"
  created: '2008-01-27 15:57:04'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: Memory? What memory? Oh, you mean the Steel Sieve.
  created: '2008-01-27 16:39:27'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: I'm sorry I forgot the question... :-)
  created: '2008-01-27 23:58:07'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>theres a book called metaphors we live by</em>\r\n\r\nI've heard that's
    quite good. It is cited in another book, <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/INTRODUCING-METAPHOR-Murray-Knowles/dp/0415278015/ref=sr_1_8?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1201481722&sr=1-8\"><em>Introducing
    Metaphor</em></a>."
  created: '2008-01-28 00:56:26'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: There's folders, lots of subfolders of with nothing in them but yet another
    subfolder called "new folder". Lots of shortcuts that cause a little sand glass
    to preoccupy my attention rather than actually lead somewhere. Plenty of read/write
    errors, with no time to go fully offline for a low-level scan. And I can never
    recall quite what fell out the back end of the recycle bin.
  created: '2008-01-28 05:16:59'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>...what fell out the back end of the recycle bin.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    Recycle Bin. Something in the sound of that resonates with me."
  created: '2008-01-28 06:08:39'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "I view my own memory as an engraving by M.C.Escher of a self-referential
    cycle feeding back on itself. It's like a hologram. Cut it in half and something
    very interesting happens. Instead of two halves of an image you get two complete
    images each half the size of the original. Cut those two into halves and you get
    four complete images each one quarter the size of the original. Ad infinitum.
    It keeps going. Cut it into a thousand pieces and you wind up with a thousand
    miniature holograms of the complete original scene. Some reduction in resolution
    is inevitable, but you get the idea. Memory is holographic in structure. All of
    the information is contained in every part of the brain. This phenomenon has been
    proven physically true. People who lose part of their brain retain most if not
    all of their memories, at least as accurately as these things can be measured.
    Provided you don't lose a part of the brain critical to normal functioning you
    continue to remember everything you could remember before the accident reduced
    the amount of brain material.\r\n\r\nThe feedback model is very significant for
    me, becaws it works just like a rocket engine. There's a frickin' turbopump that
    feeds kerosene (or liquid hydrogen, depending on what kind of brain you got) to
    the combustion chamber thru the part called the Injector Face, and a do-hickey
    at the business end taps off some of the power output and feeds it back to the
    turbopump. The pump then spins a heck of a lot faster, delivering mind-boggling
    quantities of fuel to the combustion chamber, in turn producing colossal thrust.
    Yeah! Burn baby burn. When I have a brainwave is \r\n\"much like\" when that turbopump
    kicks in. Wollop.\r\n\r\nOne book in my library I love is <em>Metaphors for the
    Mind -- The Creative Mind and its Origins</em> by Colin Murray Turbayne. ISBN:
    0-87249-699-6. University of South Carolina Press. Here's the back cover blurb:\r\n\r\n\"The
    author analyzes the significance of metaphor in human thought by exploring historical
    traditions of philosophy. Probing into the early philosophies of Plato and Aristotle,
    Turbayne traces the influence that Platonic metaphors have held for later important
    philosophers such as Berkeley and Kant. By showing how modern theories of human
    thought and language (including the substance and attribute theory) arose from
    the procreation model as presented in Plato's <em>Timaeus,</em> Turbayne makes
    a significant contribution in the current philosophical debates concerning relativism/realism.
    In the discussion, the author restores the model to its original state in which
    the female and male hemispheres of the mind work as partners to create our world.\r\n\r\nTurbayne,
    author of <em>The Myth of Metaphor,</em> has once again given us an original concept.
    Students delving into the sub-conscious of our culture, whether lay or academic
    readers, will find this book a rich vein.\"\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-28 09:19:13'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<strong>Bicycle tracks\r\nHolographic structure\r\nFractal branch-like structure\r\nStructure!</strong>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/puddle_5838.gif]\r\n\r\nOh
    yeah, and credit the artist --- M. C. Escher. (but you all knew that :^)\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-01-28 12:09:54'
- author:
    name: dylan
    picture: 128368
  body: "Nick said,\r\n\r\n\"My memory is a recalcitrant subordinate/child who won\u2019t
    do as told.\r\n'I thought I told you to retrieve that information. And you still
    don\u2019t have it?'\"\r\n\r\nAgreed, Nick. \r\n\r\nYour brother from a different
    mother,\r\n\r\nDylan\r\n\r\n_________________\r\nBuild a man a fire, and he'll
    be warm for a day.\r\nSet a man on fire, and he'll be warm for the rest of his
    life."
  created: '2008-01-28 12:44:58'
- author:
    name: jokemijn
  body: "Nice topic, i worked on this question for half a year during my graduating
    project. I ended up with a book of 560 pages describing and structuring '10 minutes
    in my mind'. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hoekjes_6436.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/17_5803.jpg]\r\n\r\nAs
    things change so quickly i had to name it \"10 minutes\", 'cause 10 minutes later
    i would have had a different book to make."
  created: '2008-01-28 13:50:11'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> There\u2019s folders, lots of subfolders of with nothing in them but
    yet another subfolder called \u201Cnew folder\u201D. Lots of shortcuts that cause
    a little sand glass to preoccupy my attention rather than actually lead somewhere.
    Plenty of read/write errors, with no time to go fully offline for a low-level
    scan. And I can never recall quite what fell out the back end of the recycle bin.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    like this. And files and folders that I want to delete, but somehow I don't have
    the right permissions..."
  created: '2008-01-28 14:13:46'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "@ Ricardo -- along with colour, honour, theatre....  ;-)\r\n\r\n<em>And files
    and folders that I want to delete, but somehow I don\u2019t have the right permissions...</em>\r\n\r\nEspecially
    that faulty iTunes file that keeps playing bubblegum one-hit wonders from the
    1970s over and over and over and over...."
  created: '2008-01-28 15:58:48'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"How do you view your own memory?\" ;)\r\nI think, if your can back it up,
    or delete it, in other words, control both the content and the existence of memory,
    then it is yours. Otherwise, it is either no one's, someone else's, or you've
    otherwise lost it. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-28 21:40:04'
date: '2008-01-24 18:25:04'
node_type: forum
title: How do you view your own memory?

---
