---
author:
  name: AndrewSipe
  picture: 109430
body: "http://www.digg.com/design/Helvetica_Awesome_Full_Length_Film_About_Typography\r\n\r\nOr
  more precisely Google Video... this can't be right, can it? Swiss Dots?!"
comments:
- author:
    name: Tomek Peszor
  body: "Stealing Sheeps?\r\nOr did author decided to publish it?\r\n\r\n-- \r\nregards,\r\nTom"
  created: '2008-01-24 22:06:42'
- author:
    name: Tomek Peszor
  body: .
  created: '2008-01-24 22:12:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Gary (or someone claiming to be him) has posted that this is an unauthorized
    upload...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Capture2_4981.JPG]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Capture_3611.JPG]"
  created: '2008-01-24 22:16:30'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Can't imagine someone would want to watch a movie with such bad quality.
  created: '2008-01-24 22:35:02'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: I didn't think it was a legal post, and I'm surprised that Google didn't catch
    it.
  created: '2008-01-24 22:44:33'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Google''s legal department responds only after you''ve jumped through all
    of their red tape. '
  created: '2008-01-24 23:11:40'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>&gt; jumped through all of their red tape.</em>\r\n\r\n:-)\r\n\r\n...or
    cut through all their hoops."
  created: '2008-01-25 02:32:13'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: Illegal versions of movies on the internet?! Since when?!
  created: '2008-01-25 03:01:46'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"> jumped through all of their red tape.\r\n\r\n:-)\r\n\r\n...or cut through
    all their hoops.\"\r\n\r\n:D\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-25 03:42:19'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Illegal versions of movies on the internet?! Since when?!\r\n\r\nTrue, but
    why would reasonable people think that the upload was legitimate? eg.\r\n\r\nhttp://desktoppub.about.com/b/2008/01/25/helvetica-the-film.htm\r\n\r\nIs
    it because \"font people\" are mostly unaware of Google's approach to IP? \r\n
    \r\n"
  created: '2008-01-25 18:41:23'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I think it is more along the lines of the fact that most people, including
    designers, think everything is free now. '
  created: '2008-01-25 18:44:39'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>Illegal versions of movies on the internet?! Since when?!</cite>\r\n\r\nIt's
    not as if this was a Google search result linking to a website hosting an illegal
    copy. It's Google's own proprietary video hosting service... That's what made
    me scratch my head and go \"Wha...?\"\r\n\r\nBut what's even worse is that it's
    not lost in the obscure mess that Google Video is, it was then brought to the
    attention of the mass that makes up Digg... which could be thousands... in-turn
    this could spell financial disaster for Gary and his Swiss Dots crew."
  created: '2008-01-25 19:01:23'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"why would reasonable people think that the upload was legitimate?\"\r\n\r\nI'd
    argue it's because google/youtube is normally pretty quick in taking down media
    once they receive notice from the copyright owners that it shouldn't be there.\r\n\r\n\"in-turn
    this could spell financial disaster for Gary and his Swiss Dots crew.\"\r\n\r\nNo.
    The 'digg masses' weren't likely in line to snatch up the DVD from the mall, either."
  created: '2008-01-25 19:37:37'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "<cite>Can\u2019t imagine someone would want to watch a movie with such bad
    quality.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt wouldn't be a documentary about Helvetica unless heavily
    bastardized, pirate versions of it began popping up everywhere. : )"
  created: '2008-01-25 19:45:10'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">No. The \u2019digg masses\u2019 weren\u2019t likely in line to snatch up
    the DVD from the mall, either.\r\n\r\nI don't want to overplay the damage and
    financial hardship three days on Google would have unleashed on Gary, Swissdots,
    Veer (and its owner Mr Gates) but I wouldn't be surprised if people took this
    off their Netflix list after watching it online. In the end it really comes down
    to the hassle of policing ones IP when you could be spending that time creating.
    \r\n"
  created: '2008-01-25 21:17:14'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I wouldn\u2019t be surprised if people took this off their Netflix list
    after watching it online.\"\r\n\r\nIt's been part of NetFlix's 'watch online'
    option for a while now.\r\n\r\nYou would think Google would have thought to check
    into this, though. This is a full hour and a half documentary...you'd think this
    would have raised a flag somewhere at Google HQ."
  created: '2008-01-25 21:31:03'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Google doesn't do its own policing. Just as Google Video has this one slipping
    through others are using Google's gmail and groups to share fonts. No policing
    there either. They depend upon those whose IP that has been violated to work their
    way through the questions and contact them.\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-25 21:49:31'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"No policing there either.\"\r\n\r\nI would certainly hope not. I have no
    interest in Google reading my emails. ;o)"
  created: '2008-01-25 22:14:57'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Google doesn\u2019t do its own policing.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's similar to
    Craigslist not doing its own policing... (Although they don't have to worry about
    people uploading pirated content.) But even Craigslist has had to change its policies
    lately, and now has warnings about posting illegal or inappropriate requests,
    comments, etc.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-25 22:19:32'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: The video is down. <a href="http://www.helveticafilm.com/blog/2008/01/25/on-google-video-and-the-new-paradigm/">Gary
    has posted a response.</a>
  created: '2008-01-25 22:37:47'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "<em>I think it is more along the lines of the fact that most people, including
    designers, think everything is free now.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's because it is. \r\n\r\nSomeone
    should tell Gary about these as well:\r\n\r\n[Links removed by Moderator. Please
    do not post links to such sites. Typophile does not condone the sharing of others'
    intellectual property. Should you find links that you think need to be reported
    contact a moderator or the foundry/person to whom they belong.]"
  created: '2008-01-26 06:24:17'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Torrents can certainly be another form of unauthorized distribution, but at
    least they are less accessible than a Google or YouTube video which is immediately
    viewable to the general public.
  created: '2008-01-26 08:29:46'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: Well that's true, but a 3 hours download time didn't seem to bother the 8000
    people who downloaded the mininova torrent.
  created: '2008-01-26 14:55:54'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Geez... 8,000!
  created: '2008-01-26 15:00:29'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Come on! 8,000 torrent downloads, and not *any* lost revenue? I don't believe
    that for a second. \r\n\r\nToo bad :(\r\nI don't think that there is any way on
    the planet to get a removed from the Pirate Bay site, though\u2026 you won't find
    \ a Swedish court that'll go after them, me thinks."
  created: '2008-01-26 15:29:28'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "Actually Pirate Bay owns mininova.\r\n\r\nAnyway to get it taken off mininova
    Gary himself has to email them with the information listed here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.mininova.org/faq#copyright\r\n\r\nIf
    he asks Pirate Bay nicely with no legal threats they MIGHT take it down. Just
    keep it about the film and the lost profits from being an independent film maker.
    Nothing about the horrors of piracy or whatever.\r\n\r\nOn Monday I'll check the
    members only torrent sites to see if I can find any others."
  created: '2008-01-26 15:45:01'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "<em> Torrents can certainly be another form of unauthorized distribution,
    but at least they are less accessible than a Google or YouTube video which is
    immediately viewable to the general public.</em>\r\n\r\nunless someone links to
    them from a general website"
  created: '2008-01-26 16:14:43'
- author:
    name: swiss dots
    picture: 111368
  body: "Trying to get torrents taken down, only to have someone upload it again the
    next day, is sort of a waste of effort at this point. I'd like to make more films,
    not spend my days writing cease-and-desist emails. \r\n\r\nThe Google video issue
    was different since it was instant access to the full film for anyone who wanted
    to click, no special software or overnight download needed. And since it was on
    Google, I think most of the design-blog-reading public assumed it was legitimate.
    The idea of letting the public watch a small-window, low-res version of the entire
    film to increase awareness is something we've talked about (not just for Helvetica,
    but with all the films Plexifilm releases). And it's something we might still
    do. Watching Helvetica rocket to the #1 watched video on Google was sort of flattering,
    I guess. \r\n\r\nThe question is still this: does free access to a low-res version
    of a full film, and the increased web attention that can bring, actually help
    sell more DVDs and merchandise?\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\n-Gary\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-26 17:04:47'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Gary I think the comment you posted on your site was very provocative. I
    suppose I find it to be that way mostly because I'm not in your position (or the
    position of other foundries). I don't have anything to share. Personally, and
    from some of my research into pirating, I really do not think you will generate
    a significant amount of sales by sharing it. I've watched television shows on
    the station sites because I've missed them on TV. I watched them because I like
    the shows and didn't want to miss them. But, would I buy them if that wasn't available?
    No. Maybe this isn't a good analogy. But I really question offering a full-length
    version (lo-res or not) to get others to buy it. \r\n\r\nEveryone else. I know
    we all mean well, but I get sick even seeing those shareware sites name mentioned
    here. You mention the name and you might just be educating someone who didn't
    know about it. Yeah I realize people can find out about it anyway, but why do
    they have to learn about it here? Let's keep Typophile clean of stuff like this.
    If you have links which you'd like to report you can email one of the moderators.
    I personally have contact with many foundries and would gladly send along the
    information to them. Thanks.\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-26 18:40:47'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "I liked what you said on the film's website, Gary -- namely,\r\n\r\n<em>\"My
    biggest issue is that it should be the artist\u2019s decision whether to release
    their work for free. I don\u2019t think it\u2019s fair that someone else can decide
    to give my work away, and profit from it.\"</em>\r\n\r\nIf I didn't already own
    the DVD, I would get one even if it were available online 24 hours a day. I'm
    the kind of person who would rather have a record (vinyl or CD) than a low- or
    medium- quality MP3. And for me, having the CD or DVD includes the packaging,
    the cover, the booklet. (Yes, I have songs on my computer. I admit that it's convenient.
    But I still like having \"the real thing.\") Before music was available in a digital
    format, I would often tape my friends' records, and even then I would end up buying
    certain records -- the ones I liked a lot -- anyway. Tapes tend to break after
    a while, and the sound quality is never as good as the original record. But I
    realize that not everybody acts or feels this way.\r\n\r\nGetting back to design-related
    documentaries, the other day I noticed that Hillman Curtis's films of graphic
    designers are <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Hillman-Curtis-Designer-Series/dp/B000K15WL6/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&s=dvd&qid=1201373198&sr=1-1\">available
    on DVD</a>. Apparently, the DVD was released in October of 2006, but until now
    all I knew was that they have been online, mostly on <a href=\"\">Hillman Curtis's
    website</a>. So am I going to buy the DVD? Damn straight. I can't compare these
    shorter films to a feature-length film like <em>Helvetica</em>, but I wonder if
    having his films online has hurt sales of the DVD. Or if the DVD has material
    that is not available online. Ultimately, though, it is Curtis who has posted
    the films on his own website, so in this case the artist is making that decision."
  created: '2008-01-26 19:02:27'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>If he asks Pirate Bay nicely with no legal threats they MIGHT take
    it down.</em>\r\n\r\nEven without legal threats, I doubt they will take it down.
    They always [[http://www.google.nl/search?hl=nl&q=pirate+bay+response+letter&btnG=Google+zoeken&meta=|respond]]
    with silly (yet sometimes funny) letters. If they respond at all. ;)"
  created: '2008-01-27 00:22:00'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"The question is still this: does free access to a low-res version of a
    full film, and the increased web attention that can bring, actually help sell
    more DVDs and merchandise?\"\r\n\r\nLet us know if you can figure it out. Not
    sure if it was up long enough to really map it against your online sales, but
    it certainly would be an interesting statistic.\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-28 14:57:14'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "And, re: Miss Tiffany's response, I'll say the following solely in the name
    of lively debate and certainly not in any way to be mean or snide:\r\n\r\nhttp://library.duke.edu/lilly/film-video/newvideos.html\r\n\r\n(25th
    entry)\r\n\r\n(I just find the whole library issue an interesting part of the
    overall debate)"
  created: '2008-01-28 14:59:49'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Gary\r\n\r\nIt might be worth your time to build a 15 minute or so highlight
    package and post that, in hopes that a proportion of the viewers of that will
    buy the full DVD. Like you, I'm surprised that the video shot so high ... lots
    of closet typographers out there, I guess."
  created: '2008-01-28 16:33:34'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Not sure where your going with that Darrel, but the library is a perfectly
    legitimate place to borrow (check out) a movie. No?
  created: '2008-01-28 16:59:21'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I wasn't going anywhere specific. Just adding to the discussion, really.
    One watching the movie from the library can be considered a 'lost sale' as much
    as someone grabbing it off of bittorrent. Granted, one is more socially acceptable
    than the other.\r\n\r\nThe issue is usually one of 'bits' being saved elsewhere.
    That might be a huge issue, or maybe it's not. I don't know."
  created: '2008-01-28 18:14:10'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Darrel (aluminum), that's an interesting point you bring up. DVD rental stores
    are in a similar (though not free) situation to public libraries.\r\n\r\nAside
    from the legal/socially accepted difference, there is another, perhaps more important
    difference: with libraries or DVD rentals, you have one or maybe a few copies
    of the movie on loan to individuals at any given time (when not on the shelf).
    But with a bit torrent, you have the possibility of many, many individuals accessing
    the film at the same time -- and all over the world, not just in one neighborhood
    or city.\r\n\r\nAnd don't forget that libraries and rental stores have to purchase
    a copy of the film before they can loan or rent it."
  created: '2008-01-28 19:13:45'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Ricardo:\r\n\r\nYep, those are pretty much the differences. Are those major
    differences? I don't know.\r\n\r\nAnother interesting angle to consider are used
    media stores such as used CD, Book, DVD, and Video Game stores.\r\n\r\nThey're
    actually making a profit selling media that the original artist does not get a
    share of. \r\n\r\nAgain, not trying to make any specific point other than that
    there are some interesting tangents to this type of thinking."
  created: '2008-01-28 20:08:49'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "Ricardo has a point with respect to the rate at which the media can be consumed.
    I hardly ever buy media, instead using my local library's usually adequate hold/request
    network to borrow things that I'd like to watch/read/listen to. A lot of other
    people do this, though, so the waits for certain items can be quite long. \r\n\r\nYes
    libraries are usually free, and used media outlets are usually cheaper, but they
    are rarely more convenient than the illegal methods. And besides cost, convenience
    is probably the most important factor in all of this. \r\n\r\nMedia can never
    be cheaper than free, so perhaps the only way to curb piracy is to make it markedly
    less convenient than simply paying for it. It can be argued that iTunes, Netflix,
    et al., have tried to do this.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-28 20:39:54'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: Hmm...reading that over I sound kind of defensive/apologist. I think a better
    way to say all that is that piracy is not only a product of greed or a false sense
    of entitlement but of laziness.
  created: '2008-01-28 20:56:58'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>Yep, those are pretty much the differences. Are those major differences?
    I don\u2019t know.</em>\r\n\r\nThere's also a difference in price: the \"institutional/educational\"
    DVD of Helvetica is <a href=\"http://helveticafilm.com/edvd.html>$350</a>. (I
    know because I ordered it for my university.)\r\n\r\nFrom the website: \"Institutional
    DVD copies come with a limited public performance license that allows classroom
    and library use, and on-campus screenings that are free for students of that school
    and not advertised to the general public.\""
  created: '2008-01-29 02:12:16'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>There\u2019s also a difference in price: the \u201Cinstitutional/educational\u201D
    DVD of Helvetica is $350. (I know because I ordered it for my university.)</em>\r\n\r\nThanks
    for pointing that out, Eliason. I thought of that only after I'd finished my post.
    I remember that back in the days of VHS, replacing a customer-destroyed VHS tape
    from a rental store cost a lot more than usual.\r\n\r\nBut I think that makes
    sense... A lot more people are going to get mileage out of that one DVD, or VHS,
    or book. It's not all that different from paying more to a foundry or software
    maker if you are using their product on several machines as opposed to just one
    computer.\r\n\r\n<em>Yes libraries are usually free, and used media outlets are
    usually cheaper, but they are rarely more convenient than the illegal methods.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat
    about quality? How good can an illegal, online version of a movie be? Or a DVD
    sold on the street while the movie is in theaters, for that matter? Is it going
    to be high-res? Will the picture be as crisp as on a DVD? Will the bonus material
    be there?\r\n\r\n<em>Another interesting angle to consider are used media stores
    such as used CD, Book, DVD, and Video Game stores.\r\n\r\nThey\u2019re actually
    making a profit selling media that the original artist does not get a share of.</em>\r\n\r\nThose
    stores are selling used media, and therefore the price is cheaper (if the item
    is not rare or out-of-print, that is) than for a new copy. Besides, when someone
    buys a (new) book or DVD, it's theirs, and if they want or need to sell it to
    someone else who will give them some money in exchange, well, they are entitled
    to do that. The original author of the product already made money from it. Why
    should s/he get a profit from it again?\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, buying a book
    or DVD does not give the purchaser the right to make copies of it and sell the
    copies for personal profit. And the fact that a book is available, whether in
    a store or library, does not give anyone the right to copy passages from it and
    publish them as their own.\r\n\r\nIntellectual property theft is not new... What's
    new are the means by which it is being done nowadays..."
  created: '2008-01-29 03:15:41'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Besides, when someone buys a (new) book or DVD, it\u2019s theirs, and if
    they want or need to sell it to someone else who will give them some money in
    exchange, well, they are entitled to do that.\"\r\n\r\nExactly. So, if I buy a
    digital file, and I want to share it with someone, can I? Should I? I can share
    a book. Why not an MP3? I'm not making money of the transaction. (Again, just
    playing devil's advocate here... ;o)\r\n\r\nI admit, the crux of the debate is
    the issue of 'copy'. And this *is* about copyRIGHTS, so I completely side with
    the technical point that it's wrong to copy something without getting the permission
    from the copyright holder. I just find the counter-reactions a bit extreme and
    not really warranted much of the time.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-29 14:39:19'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Exactly. So, if I buy a digital file, and I want to share it with someone,
    can I? Should I?</em>\r\n\r\nWell, as I pointed out later in the post you're quoting,
    you can \"share\" a book you buy, yes, but there are limits to that sharing. All
    you have to do is turn to the copyright notice of almost any book to find something
    along these lines: <strong>\"No part of this book may be used or reproduced in
    any manner without written permission from the publisher, except in the context
    of reviews.\"</strong>\r\n\r\nThat notice hasn't stopped pirated editions of books
    from being published in the past (before personal computers). But MOST people
    abide by the law... With digital media, suddenly it's very easy to make a copy
    of something... so easy that a lot of people don't consider it stealing.\r\n\r\nBut
    the law is still there. It's a convention that everyone agrees on. That's what
    laws are. <strong>Rules we all agree on to be able to live in society and get
    along.</strong> You don't HAVE to stop at the red traffic light... It's just a
    man-made rule... right? (Of course, if you get run over by another car while crossing
    that red light, don't blame anyone else.) Just because you CAN do something, you
    don't just go and do it. "
  created: '2008-01-29 19:14:00'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>I can share a book. Why not an MP3? I\u2019m not making money of the
    transaction. (Again, just playing devil\u2019s advocate here... ;o)</em>\r\n\r\nThere
    is something else. When you loan a physical book or record, it will be coming
    back to you (well, not always... But that's another story!). When you share an
    MP3, you're making a copy of it. Making a casette tape is a better analogy here."
  created: '2008-01-29 19:18:01'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite> Making a cassette tape is a better analogy here. <cite>\r\n\r\nFirst
    off analog-y haha...\r\n\r\nSecond, the idea of creating a mixed tape or even
    a mixed CD was rarely seen as criminal... <em>I'm not sure if anyone was actually
    processed criminally for making a mix, but I could be wrong.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's
    this gray area that has made the prospect of pirating more plausible, though on
    a much larger scale. And it's less a concept of pirating, more a concept of mass
    sharing. The idea of sharing a dubbed tape/CD with a friend times x 1000 at no
    charge. It kinda gets around the copyright issue of creating a copy and distributing
    it for profit. Like renting a movie and watching it with a very large family.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-29 19:51:53'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Ricardo:\r\n\r\nI'm certainly not trying to debate laws. That can be an interesting
    debate, but really wasn't where I was trying to go. \r\n\r\n\"First off analog-y
    haha...\"\r\n\r\n;o)\r\n\r\n\"And it\u2019s less a concept of pirating, more a
    concept of mass sharing.\"\r\n\r\nAgreed. I think part of the issue is the oversimplification
    of the argument. You're either a good sin-free consumer who buys a copy of something
    every time brand new, or you're an evil pirate.\r\n\r\nI think there's probably
    a lot of middle ground there that really hasn't been explored fully by either
    side."
  created: '2008-01-29 19:56:53'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "Watching a movie or listening to music is a passive act of sensory intake.
    Sharing it is so others can enjoy seeing or hearing it is still copyright infringement
    if a copy is made. Fonts and software are tools. Sure some people just like to
    look at them, but they are interactive tools and components of other creative
    work. If music was shared and then inserted into a TV commercial that takes the
    infringement to the level of unlicensed font usage. Fonts are made to be actually
    be used (except perhaps a few conceptual P22 fonts and some Fuse fonts) because
    of this, I feel the sharing or less euphemistic term of stealing is more offensive
    for fonts than music. Not to downplay it or be a hypocrite, I annoy friends when
    i turn down their offers to burn me some music CDs.\r\n\r\n I think Ehague hit
    the nail on the head <em>piracy is not only a product of greed or a false sense
    of entitlement but of laziness.</em>"
  created: '2008-01-29 20:11:43'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Richard, that's an important difference.\r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019m certainly not
    trying to debate laws. That can be an interesting debate, but really wasn\u2019t
    where I was trying to go.</em>\r\n\r\nOh, I wasn't debating with you... I was
    just offering hypothetical counter-arguments... More than one person can play
    devil's advocate. :-) I'm just trying to think through all of the issues, that's
    all. I'm not the one whose film or software products are being illegally reproduced.\r\n\r\n<em>Second,
    the idea of creating a mixed tape or even a mixed CD was rarely seen as criminal</em>\r\n\r\nIn
    the late 70s, record companies started making a VERY big deal about kids making
    tapes of records... They never explicitly mentioned mix tapes, but I'm sure they
    saw that as a no-no as well. (What they never thought of was lowering the price
    of records. Then, a few years later, they forced everyone to switch to CDs, and
    now it's coming back to bite them in the ***... My two cents.)"
  created: '2008-01-29 21:49:33'
- author:
    name: Tomek Peszor
  body: "I'd like to notice, that posting purchased DVD to Europe + money transfer
    tip is more expensive than the DVD itself.\r\n\r\n\r\n-- \r\nregards,\r\nTom"
  created: '2008-01-29 22:05:53'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>In the late 70s, record companies started making a VERY big deal about
    kids making tapes of records.</em>\r\n\r\nIn fact, they eventually got legislation
    passed to give music labels a portion of every blank tape sale, according to [[http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/music/inside/cron.html|this
    site]].\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-29 22:24:21'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>In fact, they eventually got legislation passed to give music labels
    a portion of every blank tape sale, according to this site.</em>\r\n\r\nDoesn't
    something similar exist for CD-R's?"
  created: '2008-01-30 02:11:50'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>Doesn\u2019t something similar exist for CD-R\u2019s?</em>\r\n\r\nLooks
    like it does, for audio CD-Rs. Wikipedia info [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Private_copying_levy|here]]
    and [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Audio_Home_Recording_Act|here]]."
  created: '2008-01-30 03:08:25'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Yeah, that's what I meant indeed.
  created: '2008-01-30 03:36:27'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Yea, I know on the perihpery there's been talk about 'taxing' internet access
    and paying a chunk of that back to the IP holders.\r\n\r\nIt's an interesting
    idea, and, in fact, I think Canada implemented something akin to that with a fee
    on all MP3 players.\r\n\r\nThe problem is that mainly benefits the big business
    folks, rather than the independent.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I would like to see a lot
    of the industry attempt a model of 'cheaper, more convnient = more sales\" strategy.
    I know I buy a lot more music now than I ever did before on CD now that Amazon
    makes it so easy to download DRM-free MP3s. \r\n\r\nOnce Apple gets a better deal
    set up with the movie rentals on iTMS, the AppleTV will start looking really nice. "
  created: '2008-01-30 15:43:19'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Sorry for this aside: Darrel, what is the bit rate on the Amazon MP3?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-30 18:02:28'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "<em>I think a better way to say all that is that piracy is not only a product
    of greed or a false sense of entitlement but of laziness.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's not
    laziness, it's that people don't want to be dictated when and where they can and
    can't consume their media. As far as I'm concerned, the MPAA and the RIAA brought
    a large portion of piracy down on themselves by not innovating or listening to
    their consumers.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-30 18:26:25'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>As far as I\u2019m concerned, the MPAA and the RIAA brought a large
    portion of piracy down on themselves by not innovating or listening to their consumers.</cite>\r\n\r\nHere,
    here... innovate or get the hell out of the way.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-30 18:37:57'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "<cite>It\u2019s not laziness, it\u2019s that people don\u2019t want to be
    dictated when and where they can and can\u2019t consume their media.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo,
    that aspect of it isn't laziness. When people become fed up with the MPAA and
    the RIAA, and are finally given a chance to dictate the terms on which they consume
    their media, they seem mostly to have decided on \"right now and for free\". I
    think, maybe wrongly, that that indicates a false sense of entitlement. \r\n\r\nThings
    may have been (or be) unjust with respect to the supplier/consumer relationship,
    but I can't help but feel like the protest is more like a looting than a picketing.
    \r\n"
  created: '2008-01-30 18:59:34'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "Ones sense entitlement depends wholly on the person you're asking :)\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-30 19:10:54'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Darrel, what is the bit rate on the Amazon MP3?\"\r\n\r\nUmm...I think
    it's VBR averaging around 256. Plenty good enough for my ears. ;o)\r\n\r\n\"is
    more like a looting than a picketing.\"\r\n\r\nI'm thinking it's somewhere in
    between."
  created: '2008-01-30 19:14:52'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "The fact remains that there are laws and rights. \r\n\r\nIf I don't like
    the rights that Foundry A or Record Label A claim then the only thing I can do
    is use Foundry B or Record Label B who both claim rights I can agree to live by.
    No?"
  created: '2008-01-30 19:31:24'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I also think that it is about time for some international law to come into
    play in regards to all of this stuff. It is far too convenient for some countries
    to rest on the laws their country sets forth when it comes to the rights someone
    in another country is claiming. Oh, wait, doesn't that exist already!
  created: '2008-01-30 19:33:00'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"The fact remains that there are laws and rights.\"\r\n\r\nCertainly. Fortunately,
    citizens and market forces can change those over time as needed. Sometimes for
    the better, sometimes for the worse. But it's nicer when the industry changes
    on their own prior to needing to involve the lawyers and politicians. "
  created: '2008-01-30 20:24:30'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Well, it'll only be a matter of time before the industry introduces a new
    superior format with new parameters for playing/copying and controlling, which
    should obscure the need/use of past formats.\r\n\r\nIt won't recoup the loses
    and damages for past performers/movies/etc... but it might maintain them for new
    releases.\r\n\r\nConsidering the use and proliferation of Wi-Fi, I'm sure this
    new format will be under constant monitoring and access will be provided via passwords/keycodes/or
    connectivity."
  created: '2008-01-30 20:41:47'
date: '2008-01-24 19:12:10'
title: Helvetica on Digg

---
