---
author:
  name: kris
body: "Thought you might be interested to read <a href=\"http://ilovetypography.com/2008/01/22/why-bembo-sucks/\">this
  little piece.<a>\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
comments:
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I enjoyed it! And you make excellent points of course. \r\n\r\nThe one downside
    to such a provocative title is that it makes you want to ask you: there is of
    course Metal Bembo isn't there? \r\n\r\nAnd of course the answer is there is no
    point specific Bembo in digital fonts yet which is really the problem. \r\n\r\nWill
    you be making one by any chance?"
  created: '2008-01-25 03:56:13'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "This brings me back to something I think about a lot lately: it\u2019s time
    to bring back the Monotype."
  created: '2008-01-25 04:04:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">it\u2019s time to bring back the Monotype.\r\n\r\nIt hasn't totally gone
    away yet. [[http://www.mwbixler.com/specimens.html|Here's an example]] of a place
    that prints from Monotype machines, and will sell you the metal Bembo, in many
    sizes.  "
  created: '2008-01-25 04:16:56'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Will you be making one by any chance?</em>\r\n\r\ni kind of got the impression
    that this article was a bit of a dig at strict revivals of typefaces from bygone
    type technologies. did i get the wrong impression. what kris seemed to be saying,
    or so i thought, was that old faces are less relevant to design today and that
    new types that embrace the framework of new media, constraints and all. Of course
    some revivals can work well, as Bembo itself is a revival based on the De Aetna
    typeface (which you all know). To me it seems a bit odd to hear talk of reviving
    Bembo instead of the De Aetna typeface, but IMO it's probably not possible to
    recreate the full feeling of these types from outside their context. Just as Bembo
    looked to De Aetna and updated it, we should work in the same manner: not looking
    to reive Bembo, but to take from it and build something new that is more relevant
    today."
  created: '2008-01-25 10:43:25'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "></em>it\u2019s time to bring back the Monotype.</em>\r\n\r\nAren't Edward
    Tufte's books typeset with Monotype machines (and Monotype Bembo?), whose text
    printed blocks are then photographed and put on the offset plates along with the
    images, etc. for the book we eventually see? One way around digital faces to spindly,
    I guess\u2026"
  created: '2008-01-25 11:22:15'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Sorry, I thought the conclusion was a non sequitur. I agree completely with
    the first half \u2014 and thought you were going to conclude that we need to do
    a better job of making digital fonts that match the style characteristics of metal
    type. But then you swing off to the left and make unfounded remarks about the
    irrelevance of older type in modern books. Given that you've just extolled the
    beauty of metal Bembo it just seems that you have two ideas running that have
    not been harmonized.\r\n\r\nJust my 2 cents."
  created: '2008-01-25 11:48:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I think Paul is right that it is not possible to recreate the *full* feeling
    of the original metal types. I think letter press looks blacker than offset, particularly
    on rough paper, which is a particularly attractive look.  \r\n\r\nHowever, I do
    think you can capture a lot of the feeling of a metal type. As I mentioned in
    the thread, by careful attention to recreating the effects of ink spread, Matthew
    Carter's Monticello recreated the feeling of the metal Linotype version pretty
    well. --That was Carter's brief, as the digital font was intended for printing
    additional volumes of Jefferson's papers, the first of which had been printed
    with metal Monticello. \r\n\r\nAs to whether it is worth recreating the look of
    a metal font, it depends on the font. Bembo was the second attempt of Monotype
    to revive the De Aetna face of Griffo, and the most successful. In fact Bembo
    is one of the best book faces from the hot metal era. So to me reviving the look
    of it would be a worthy exercise. I don't know how well Bembo Book has succeeded
    in this. \r\n\r\nAs to the question of revivals vs new types. To paraphrase Duke
    Ellington, there are two kinds of type: good and bad. Whether it's new or a revival,
    it can be good or bad. Adobe Garamond was a good revival; monotype Bembo was a
    bad revival. Not everything is worth reviving, but when a type has been *great*
    with one technology, I think it's worth reviving. That was done in the hot metal
    era, beginning in the 1890s, was done again in the brief phototype era, and is
    being done again now in the digital era. I don't think it was a bad idea, then
    or now. \r\n\r\nOh, I should add that Monticello is unusual in Carter's work in
    being a very literal revival. Generally his types are a freer interpretation of
    an earlier type. He said to me that he thinks of a revival of a type as a new
    performance of an old score. And most people think Beethoven is still worth performing. "
  created: '2008-01-25 14:08:18'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "Dan, most of Tufte\u2019s book are indeed set in lead with Monotype Bembo.
    But for his last publication, <cite>Beautiful Evidence</cite> he decided to create
    a digital font called <a href=\"http://www.edwardtufte.com/bboard/q-and-a-fetch-msg?msg_id=0000bm\">ET
    Bembo</a>, together with Dmitry Krasny and Bonnie Scranton:\r\n\r\n<em>When converted
    to an electronic font, Monotype Bembo became thin and spindly (the computer people
    ignored \"squeeze,\" the slight spreading of ink when the lead type hits the paper).
    So we made our own computer version and also made a some design changes (ligatures,
    several problems with the pi font, some letterforms, creation of a semibold).</em>\r\n\r\nI
    think it looks good as set in the book, but I seem to recall kerning issues every
    now and then. \r\n\r\nRegarding Kris\u2019 article, I too have issues with Bembo
    although my reasons are completely different. It\u2019s not so much that the digital
    pre-Bembo-Book Bembo is too thin (it is) or is misused for cultural reasons (it
    is, too, sometimes), but that during the original Monotype revival many choices
    where made that I don\u2019t particularly approve of. So my issues are not even
    with the digital version, they\u2019re with Bembo itself: I\u2019m not claiming
    Monotype Bembo is a bad typeface in general, I think it\u2019s a remarkable typeface
    and I have several books set in it that I truly love, I\u2019m just claiming it\u2019s
    a completely different beast from the De Aetna typeface designed and cut by Francesco
    Griffo da Bologna.\r\n\r\nContrast and compare Bembo with the De Aetna typeface,
    the Monotype Poliphilus typeface, and Giovanni Mardersteig\u2019s Griffo type.
    The difference are just glaring: where Bembo is all spiky and sharp, all the other
    versions are much more organic and natural.\r\n\r\n(As an aside, I\u2019d love
    to be able to see Matthew Carter\u2019s Yale typeface at a higher resolution instead
    of the low-res GIFs on the Web, and possibly also another one of Carter\u2019s
    own typefaces designed for the book <cite><a href=\"http://bielerpressiii.blogspot.com/2006/11/aldine-press.html\">The
    Aldine Press</a></cite> by Nicolas Barker, composed by Gerard Lange.)\r\n\r\nI
    have been lucky enough to be able to see the De Aetna several times already and
    it\u2019s incredible. I\u2019ve been collecting bibliography, sketches and ideas
    for a while now, and I\u2019d love to have a go at producing my own version of
    the De Aetna typeface in the not too distant future. Here\u2019s wishing for that
    dream to come true, eventually."
  created: '2008-01-25 14:28:06'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Most photo and digital versions of Bembo carried over a strange characteristic
    of the metal version. In metal, Monotype cut two versions of cap R. One R had
    a \"long tail\" and the other had a tail many typographers would consider to be
    a \"standard tail\". For some reason, the standard Monotype matrix case carried
    the long-tail R. Good Monotype composing rooms (Stinehour Press, Mackenzie & Harris)
    made sure to alter the matrix case and keybars to yield the short-tail R on the
    caster. Merely competent shops did no such alterations.\r\n\r\nThere's nothing
    wrong with the long-tail R in a well letterspaced all-cap line. But it looks like
    hell in a line of u&lc text, as the first letter in a word. It adds disruptive
    air before the following sort.\r\n\r\nMost photo and digital versions kept that
    long-tail R. Monotype or Adobe had a font in which the only sort was the short-tail
    R. But it was a pain to do the S&R to get the better R. I think Bitstream's version
    of Bembo also had that short-tail R, but their fonts had no smalls or oldstyles,
    which rendered it useless for book work. Yet I bet that 90% of books I have seen
    in Bembo (metal, photo, digital) use the long-tail R. To me that is a sign the
    typographer has not really studied the face.\r\n\r\nIs there an OT version of
    Monotype's new Bembo Book? If so, does it have both Rs? I guess I could look,
    but I'm so un-interested in Bembo these days that I have not bothered. There are
    far too many good new types to choose from: who needs Bembo anyway?\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2008-01-25 14:31:58'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Will, as I remember, Monotype always included the short-tailed \"R\" in the
    expert set, back in the type 1 days. We just reencoded the font so the long-tailed
    R was the alternate character.\r\n\r\nI still use Bembo -- need it, if you want.
    Well, our re-cut version. Not only were the fine lines of Type 1 font too thin,
    the ascenders & descenders were too short. Yes, there are a lot of new fonts to
    choose from, but they too all seem to have flaws. Might as well go with the ones
    where I've already fixed what I see as problems."
  created: '2008-01-25 15:21:56'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "On a related note, I know that there are a lot of type teachers on Typophile.
    Do you teach your students that just because the old metal fonts are considered
    classics doesn\u2019t mean that the digital revivals are really any good? I bring
    this up because it\u2019s not something that comes up in typography textbooks
    (excluding Bringhurst, but I think many students struggle with his writing), which
    seem to emphasize choosing type based largely on historic and stylistic connection
    rather than because the typeface is actually any good."
  created: '2008-01-25 15:40:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think it is fine to make good revivals that solve the problems of the digital
    world but I agree with Kris that too much reverence is given to old typefaces
    and it is assumed they will work always with todays design and communications
    issues. I am not trying to put words in Kris's mouth but I would certainly say
    that we need more new original designs which address todays world than we need
    a plethora of revivals of historic type. Historic type will always have uses,
    particularly with subject matter that is equally historic but it is not the cure-all
    solution to typography that some users make it out to be.\r\nBy the way, Kris,
    I enjoyed the piece! Nicely written.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-25 18:14:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">We need more original designs which address todays world than we need a
    plethora of revivals of historic type.\r\n\r\nWhat about revivals that address
    the needs of today's world?\r\n\r\nMatthew Carter said to me that he thinks of
    revivals as a new performance of an old score. I enjoy listening to old songs
    reinterpreted by today's singers. I think that if no one ever sang Gershwin something
    would be lost. Don't you like to sing century-old Opera songs, Chris? Should they
    be banned? \r\n\r\nAlso at some point eg a jazz interpretation of an old song
    becomes almost as much an independent creation as a newly written song. I think
    here that you are neglecting the creativity that has gone into such revivals as
    Carter's Galliard--a revival of Granjon. For example Martin Majoor says of Scala:
    \"The form principle of Scala was definitely influenced by humanist typefaces
    like Bembo and by typefaces from the mid-18th century French typographer Pierre
    Simon Fournier.\" \r\n\r\nSo is Scala a revival? I would argue that what matters
    is not how new Scala is vs how new Galliard is, but how good and useful they are.
    \ "
  created: '2008-01-25 19:11:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "William,\r\nReread my post. You have badly misinterpreted it. Nowhere did
    I say that anything should be banned. Nowhere did I say there was no value in
    older typefaces. Nowhere did I say modern original types (including Scala) should
    not be influenced by older types. That is just your misread. What I said was that
    \"Historic type will always have uses\" and that they are \"not the cure-all solution
    to typography that some users make it out to be\". My point is that older is not
    always better nor is it better by definition. If that were true, we would still
    be setting everything in Gutenberg's very first typeface and the faces that would
    have been banned from ever being designed were Garamond, Caslon, Bembo, Baskerville
    and every other face after the 15th century. Every face started out as the \"newfangled\"
    thing. When Baskerville first came out, it was not well thought of.\r\nYes, I
    love to sing arias from the 18th and 19th century. I don't sing them at rock-and-roll
    concerts though and I don't think it is a requirement that today's pop-song writers
    and performers base their music on Verdi or Mozart. If they choose to be influenced
    by older works, fine but it is not essential nor particularly advantageous a pursuit.
    There have been successful borrowing of past forms like the broadway show Kismet
    that used Borodin's music and set it to words (see \"Stranger in Paradise\").
    Miles Davis's \"Sketches of Spain\" was an adaptation of classical composition
    by Spanish composer Joaquin Rodrigo's \"Concierto de Aranjuez.\"\r\nMy concern
    is that if we deify historic work too much, there will never be a new John Baskerville
    or William Caslon to come forward. I am asking that we don't freeze time and say
    there is no room for something new. I am NOT asking that we abandon, ridicule,
    outlaw or even criticize historic work. I am just saying \"let there be more\"
    than what we already have from our ancestors.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-25 20:29:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>What about revivals that address the needs of today\u2019s world?</em>\r\n\r\nBembo
    isn't a revival any more, it's a corpse in its own right.\r\n\r\nDoes today's
    world really need another Caslon?\r\nThe market will answer when William's is
    released.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-25 20:44:48'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: So locally, the Kimbell uses Bembo. Every piece in most shows has its own
    wall text. I know I keep watching to see if the revised, heavier Bembo shows up.
    Not everything is a new project that calls for a new typeface.
  created: '2008-01-25 20:56:28'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Chris & William, nice points indeed. William to address your points; I think
    that Chris is rightly suspicious of an over fawning or overly reverential approach
    to the old designs if that results in not thinking or looking or solving for the
    situation the type will be used in. Certainly the revivals you bring up do not
    do this. Also, in text you can stray only just so far from tradition in any event
    so I think Chris' position is really just a shade of grey away from yours. Chris,
    please correct my impression if I am misinterpreting you.\r\n\r\nStill, I think
    the thrust of Kris' position is that what's needed now are point (size) specific
    designs be they new or revival flavored or something in between. And I think he
    absolutely bang on with that.\r\n\r\nJames I think you may be spinning the Bringhurst
    position a bit too far. My sense is that he is making a case for picking type
    with some sensitivity to what might resonate with the content/context of material
    being set. Do you think that's a bad idea? I don't think he is suggesting that
    you discount what is a solid font to be working with. His point was ( as I understand
    it ) \"here are some types that are solid enough that you can select from them
    with tone in mind\". You may not agree with his selections of course, but that's
    another matter."
  created: '2008-01-25 20:57:47'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>My concern is that if we deify historic work too much, there will never
    be a new John Baskerville or William Caslon to come forward.</cite>\r\n\r\nI would
    think that your own body of (albeit unreleased) type designs would make it pretty
    obvious that there are plenty of great new ideas out there, Chris. \r\n\r\n<cite>Bembo
    isn\u2019t a revival any more, it\u2019s a corpse in its own right.</cite>\r\n\r\nSomtimes
    I just fall in love with Nick\u2019s sentiments.\r\n\r\nI think something that
    has to be kept in mind is that the current trend toward rediscovering pre-modernist
    design history and appreciating historic designs is part of a larger ongoing kickback
    against modernist pedagogy and it\u2019s rejection of history in favor of a perceived
    universality via simplicity. In the short term it leads us into the yet-another-Bembo/Garamond/Bodoni/etc.
    situations, but in the long run this will be an important part of Western designers
    rediscovering their place in our culture and in relation to other cultures around
    the world. "
  created: '2008-01-25 21:13:12'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>James I think you may be spinning the Bringhurst position a bit too
    far.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think that you misinterpreted me, my point was that Bringhurst
    does explain how to pick a font because the font is good in addition to cultural
    considerations, as opposed to other texts, which tend to stop at cultural considerations.
    But I think that some design students have trouble reading Bringhurst, due both
    to the level of his writing and his tendency to segue into oddball historical
    details. It seems like every typography book aimed at undergraduates has a similar
    generic chapter about type history and Vox classification and how those can influence
    type selection, and some of the newer books hit on making connotative typographic
    decisions, but they lack a simpler version of Bringhurst\u2019s examinations of
    letterforms, spacing, formats and so on. "
  created: '2008-01-25 21:22:31'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I posted my comments on the thrust of Kris's article at the ILT site.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    revivals and revivalism, we must be aware that there are various ranges of things
    meant by various people and by various uses of the terms. I think John Downer
    did a thoughtful job of mapping out the territory in his article <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/33445\"
    target=new><cite>Call It What It Is</cite></a> for Emigre years back. Unfortunately,
    his distinctions (and especially his terminology) have not gained much currency.\r\n\r\nBill,
    I think you span quite a gamut when you cite both Galliard and Scala in the same
    breath. And you run the risk of conflating two different categories of historically
    minded interpretation.\r\n\r\nTo draw a slightly different musical analogy, we
    might compare/contrast some roughly contemporary pieces from the realm of classical
    music. On the one hand, you have Respighi's <cite>Suite of Ancient Airs & Dances</cite>
    (1917) and Stravinsky's <cite>Pulcinella</cite> (1920-22). In both cases, you
    find thoroughly modern composers looking back at 17th- & 18th-century  melodies
    and recasting them in a thoroughly modern vernacular for early-20th-century ears.
    \r\n\r\nOn the other hand, you have Prokofiev with his \"Classical\" Symphony
    No. 1 (also 1917) in which he attempts to completely absorb, assimilate, and embody
    the style of the 18th-century Haydn and re-express this in his own unique, completely
    20th-century voice.\r\n\r\nBoth approaches to historically informed work are fascinating
    and perhaps equally valid. It is interesting to note that the mining of ancient
    material by Respighi and Stravinsky was received as a rather radical move in the
    context of their times. However, it is also interesting to note that the expressive
    originality of Prokofiev's essay seems to have retained more impact over time
    (IMHO anyway).\r\n\r\nIt has always fascinated me that this kind of revivalism
    in classical music was happening at the same time as the classic type revivals
    of Monotype: Garamond, 1922; Fournier, 1925; Bembo, 1929; to name a few. \r\n\r\nA
    few years later in 1932-5, we find Dwiggins reacting, perhaps, to this literal
    sort of revivalism with his Caledonia, which I would argue is his Prokofiev-like
    approach to reviving the Scotch form.\r\n\r\nI don't think that anyone is advocating
    that the classics be \"banned,\" Bill. What I do sense is that there is objection
    to a mindless clinging to accepted classics, even when their expression no longer
    really serves. As I said in my ILT comment, the classics cannot simply rest on
    their laurels. They need to be either reinterpreted (and reinvigorated) or let
    to rest.\r\n\r\nAs I've tried to clarify, the approach to that reinterpretation
    may take legitimately different forms.\r\n\r\nAs you say, they must be judged
    on \"how good and useful they are.\"\r\n\r\nI might add: \"Just 'cause it's old,
    don't make it classic.\" \r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-25 21:31:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, I'm sorry, you're right, I did misread you. I guess I've had this
    discussion too many times, and am arguing with ghosts at this point. \r\n\r\nI
    guess the only difference between our views is a matter of nuance. I would put
    more emphasis on the fact that we can learn a lot from the old masters. This may
    be by something that calls itself 'revival', like Galliard, or something that
    holds forth as new like Scala. I think that every type made today should be designed
    to fill contemporary needs; studying the past I think can be very helpful for
    that purpose though. Now that I think of it, most of the outstanding type designers
    of the recent past have been serious students of the history of type. And many,
    Nick Shinn included, have done both revivals and new designs.    "
  created: '2008-01-25 21:34:02'
- author:
    name: akma
    picture: 110015
  body: "<em>Bembo isn\u2019t a revival any more, it\u2019s a corpse in its own right.</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    one is worth enshrining in a typography quotation book. Much as my classicist
    inclinations favor types with historic pedigrees, Nick hit a home run with that
    one."
  created: '2008-01-25 21:52:37'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "About the past, revival, history, culture...:\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<strong>Many
    typefaces in the Font Bureau catalogue, and your own fonts in particular, are
    revivals or interpretations of typefaces from previous centuries. What is so fascinating
    about the past?</strong>\r\n\r\n <strong>David Berlow</strong> : What is fascinating
    to me about the types of the past is that they take me to a particular place and
    time where a type was required to solve some problem. The solution, quite often,
    then became visually associated with the person, publication or place where the
    solution was needed. Then, if the design was still cool several decades or centuries
    later, the design was revived for new technologies. Having the first one happen
    over 400 or so years ago, and then the second one 150 years ago to 50 years ago,
    we now have several layers of technologically and culturally motivated inventions
    and revivals to peer through for inspiration. And of course, with the physically
    vacant nature of type\u2019s modern form, all of the pieces of the past that were
    used to make and use type, even the rottenest old job case, are fascinating to
    me as well.\r\n\r\n<strong>More specifically, several of your own designs are
    inspired by nineteenth-century typefaces \u2013 I\u2019m thinking of designs like
    Bureau Grotesque, Rhode, Giza. So... what\u2019s so fascinating about the 19th
    century?</strong>\r\n\r\n <strong>David Berlow</strong> : To continue what I was
    saying, I think viewers in many cultures have reactions to types from different
    times and places that infuse some of the cultural soul from those places, to the
    new places in which the type is used. In your example, the slightly decorative
    uses of type in the world that preceded Helvetica, had roots in the 19th century,
    and I, being inclined towards Anglo-American tastes quite a bit, made Grotesques,
    Egyptians and Industrial sans in response, because lots of people between me and
    the viewer wanted to take the viewer to a slightly more soulful place, perhaps.\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-25 22:09:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What was missing with the first rounds of revivals was the fact that metal
    type was, by its very nature, cut to specific size and intension. You had to hand
    cut a punch, you couldn't just stretch or shrink the piece of steel (or \"squoosh
    it) to automatically become a different point size.  Cutting steel is serious
    work and not a job for the lazy. The greatest need for text work today is multiple
    versions to fit functional scenarios. This is as true for revivals as it is for
    original designs. What helps William's Caslon have some contemporary appeal is
    that optical sizes are part of the work in progress. \r\n\r\n\"types from different
    times and places that infuse some of the cultural soul from those places, to the
    new places in which the type is used\"\r\nWe also have to realize that here and
    today is a time and place that has a soul which deserves to be marked as much
    as any previous time or place. If we don't and only revisit other times and places,
    what typeface will future generations have to transport themselves to our time
    and place?\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: \"To thyne own self be true. Neither a borrower
    or a lender be.\""
  created: '2008-01-25 23:26:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"most of the outstanding type designers of the recent past have been serious
    students of the history of type\"\r\n\r\nThere is something to be said for taking
    the beaten path and following generations of knowledgeable type designers to a
    known and popular destination. We have to remember that at one point, that path
    was \"the road less travelled\" but without the early pioneer, would never have
    been taken and that destination never found. We need both the pioneers like Kris
    Sowersby to blaze the trail of the road less travelled as well as the many users
    of the roadmap to the beaten path to keep progress afoot yet ground ourselves
    in our heritage.\r\n\r\n ChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-25 23:53:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I guess I\u2019ve had this discussion too many times, and am arguing with
    ghosts at this point.\"\r\n\r\nNo problem, William. I have been known to tilt
    at a few windmills myself :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-25 23:55:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That was very flattering, James. There are plenty of other folks out there
    who are more deserving of mention than me but I appreciate your kind words.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-25 23:58:43'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "I want to suggest that the reason digital Bembo is so popular \u2014 and
    it is phenomenally popular with book designers \u2014 is that it DOES fit the
    needs of today and DOES capture its spirit. Moreover, it is the spikiness in its
    design that is contributing to its popularity. It is like a hybrid between a Didot
    and a Jenson. Thus its popularity is due to its NOT being a faithful rendition
    of metal Bembo and NOT being a faithful version of the De Aetna font either. It
    is something new, with enough backward references to keep continuity with the
    book tradition of the last five hundred years.\r\n\r\nThe only empirical data
    points we have on what is `right for today', or `captures the soul of today' is
    what is popular with designers and readers today. That data suggests, pretty unequivocally,
    that digital Bembo is the font of NOW. \r\n\r\nAnd nothing deserves to have the
    full weight of scepticism fall upon its shoulders than a priori opinion on what
    is `right for today' that just ignores what people actually want and what they
    spend their money on.\r\n\r\nPersonally I would like to see a more faithful digital
    version of metal Bembo, done in different sizes, with the ascenders and descenders
    done accurately this time. But I don't know, and no one knows, whether it would
    be more popular than the digital Bembo we now have."
  created: '2008-01-26 00:04:07'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: In answer to a question above, Bembo Book is available in open type.
  created: '2008-01-26 00:32:52'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "You guys are losing me when it comes to the musical references, so I'll fill
    in the blanks with my own ALA Rock and Roll.\r\n\r\nBands that play cover tunes
    range all over the place, from brilliant and original, to pastiche and lame-o.\r\n\r\nThe
    people who play brilliant covers often do so without you even realizing it. Jimi
    Hendrix and Led Zeppelin are known as two of the greatest \"cover\" bands of all
    time, yet they put their own spin on the originals. They manage to pull the essence
    of the old tune into a new, modern context without destroying what it was about
    the original that was loved so much.\r\n\r\nThe people who play pastiche covers
    played at your Uncle Joe's wedding last year. What was their name again?\r\n\r\nSame
    goes for revival \"cover\" typefaces. Good ones will stand the test of time as
    rock and roll classics, even if a cover of an even older tune. Poor ones will
    be relegated to a brief and un-noticed appearance on the stage and subsequently
    forgotten. "
  created: '2008-01-26 00:55:52'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Off-topic: Dan, cover bands!! Them there are fightin'' words! ;^) They''ve
    done brilliant covers, but they are not cover bands. '
  created: '2008-01-26 01:05:11'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Well, that's what I mean. They take the old stuff, mix it with their own
    stuff, and turn out new stuff that is awesome.\r\n\r\nMaybe Slimbach matches that?
    His Jenson and Garamond are clearly his, although revivals, as they fit the name
    \"Slimbach\" as well as his originals like Myriad and Arno.\r\n\r\nBut it has
    been said, not by me, that Zeppelin is the greatest cover band of all time. "
  created: '2008-01-26 01:21:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Kent,\r\nClassical composers certainly borrowed as in Rachmaninov, Variations
    on a Theme of Correlli. Brahms, however really did it:\r\n\r\nBrahms, Paganini
    Variations\r\nBrahms,  Variations on a Theme by Haydn\r\nBrahms,  Variations on
    a Theme by Handel\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-26 01:24:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "For You, Dan, and other rockers, Paul Revere & the Raiders 1st hit was \"Like
    Long Hair\" an instrumental with some riffs based on bits of Beethoven's 5th Symphony.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-26 01:35:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The old 1934 song by Rogers and Hart, \"Blue Moon\" was doowoped into a big
    hit in the 50s by the Marcels, a bunch of guys from my old neighborhood in Pittsburgh.
    \"Bompa-pa-bompa-pa-bompa-bomp-bom, Blue Moon\" \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-26 01:45:40'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<em>Bembo sucks</em> ...\r\n\r\nB <a href=http://www.bemboszoo.com/>B But...</em>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-01-26 01:51:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Just to be clear, I don''t believe in reviving a type for the sake of reviving
    it. I think you need a very specific and compelling reason to think that it would
    be desirable to have today. And then the nature of the revival--how far or close
    to the original--will depend on the reason you are reviving it. '
  created: '2008-01-26 01:52:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Russ,\r\nThat kind of brings out Bembo's animal instincts :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-26 02:05:36'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Led Zeppelin were a great covers band for precisely one album. After that
    they were a brilliant original band for two albums. After that they were\u2026meh!"
  created: '2008-01-26 02:21:40'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Okay... so now back to Optical/Size specific design?
  created: '2008-01-26 02:42:22'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>After that they were\u2026meh!</cite>\r\n\r\nHouses of the Holy plays
    very nicely from start to finish."
  created: '2008-01-26 03:15:33'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "And I thought someone was going to counterexample me with Kashmir!\r\n\r\nOK
    back to Bembo. Does anyone know who was responsible for the initial digitalisation?
    What was the reason for cutting the ascenders and descenders?"
  created: '2008-01-26 03:27:30'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "For those of you with access to it, take a look at <cite>Introduction to
    Manuscript Studies</cite> from the University of Cornell Press. I didn't design
    the book, or set it, but I can take the blame for the type itself (a modified
    Bembo). I think it a nice Bembo, and used well in this title. I also think it
    addresses some of the issues discussed here, though not, of course, a different
    master for each size.\r\n\r\nThis isn't the best paper for Bembo, but it holds
    up I think, and given all the color plates, you can't fault them too much for
    the sheet. In passing, the color in some of the art could be better, but I saw
    the originals, and the problems stem mainly from those supplied images."
  created: '2008-01-26 03:48:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Charles, will Monotype buy and distribute your improved version?
  created: '2008-01-26 03:54:48'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "I'm sure Charles, that if you made it available there would be many who would
    be willing to purchase it (your mod, I mean).\r\n\r\nBy the way, a quick look
    at Bembo Book makes me think that it has not solved the main problems \u2014 but
    it's hard to tell without seeing a full page set in it."
  created: '2008-01-26 03:57:58'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Sssshhh. I'm not sure what I did is within the my license. My foundry fonts
    are so old I *think* they are on 5-inch floppies, & I no longer have a drive that
    will take that format. As a company, Monotype has been sold many times since then.
    \r\n\r\nI think Monotype would say that Bembo Book is quite good. I took a quick
    look at it, & the weigh issue was pretty well addressed; I'm less sure of the
    ascender/decender issue. Then too, there are other touches added over the years
    of working with it, so I'm not in the market for the Book version. "
  created: '2008-01-26 04:03:48'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Ahh a pity!\r\n\r\nThe caps in Bembo Book seem smaller \u2014 too small to
    me."
  created: '2008-01-26 04:09:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The only empirical data points we have on what is \u2018right for today\u2019,
    or \u2018captures the soul of today\u2019 is what is popular with designers and
    readers today. </em>\r\n\r\nThose are two different user groups.\r\nDigital Bembo
    is a beautiful display face. I suspect that designers like the way it looks when
    they work with it blown up on screen, and they're agonizing over how much to track
    the small caps. And they like the general impression of exquisitely sharp detail
    it creates on the page en masse. Readers may like that overall look too, but don't
    they have another need that is being short-changed when they have to read the
    text and it doesn't have enough oomph? Isn't it also flying on its reputation,
    like a certain 50-year old?"
  created: '2008-01-26 08:34:05'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi William,\r\n\r\nthanks for the link where we can see specimen in hotmetal
    print!\r\nI enjoyed Fournier a lot. Maybe one the most charming textfaces ever
    made.\r\n\r\nI had a discussion with Hrant and Raph of how to achieve metal feeling
    as\r\nI tried it for the VAL project for Mardersteig. Maybe someone is interested
    to take a look.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/34526\r\n\r\nCiao all\r\nMontypes
    metal versions are beautiful and I always enjoyed how they work\r\nwith spaces
    to make work a font without kerning. Pure rhythm.\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2008-01-26 09:35:50'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "PS \r\nBembos sharp serifs are disgusting."
  created: '2008-01-26 09:36:16'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "\"Isn\u2019t it also flying on its reputation, like a certain 50-year old?\"\r\n\r\nC'mon,
    name names."
  created: '2008-01-26 10:26:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">C\u2019mon, name names.\r\n\r\nNick can't bring himself to type H-e-l-v-e-t-i-c-a
    :)  "
  created: '2008-01-26 10:36:13'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Isn\u2019t it also flying on its reputation, like a certain 50-year
    old?</cite>\r\n\r\nWhile both types get by on reputation, there\u2019s much more
    to it. I think that Bembo users honestly believe that they\u2019re getting a fabulous
    digital version of a classic typeface, after all, there are plenty of introductory
    writings about typography that say so, and most design students don\u2019t do
    a very good job of reading even those. But I think Helvetica often flies on wings
    of sloth and contempt; lazy designers will slap together a composition with a
    whole lot of negative space, simple color contrasts and Helvetica bold, then bully
    anyone who doesn\u2019t like it with the notion that Helvetica is perfect, neutral,
    classic typeface."
  created: '2008-01-26 16:56:01'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Chris -- Theme & Variations is a slightly different tradition than I was
    thinking, although it, too, can beg questions of originality -- When is it a time-honored
    tradition of borrowing & building creatively and when is it plagiarism or exploitation?
    \r\n\r\nIn the context of my analogy, however, Theme & Variations don't usually
    have any intention of \"revivalism,\" per se, in them. The whole point is the
    formal inventions and acrobatic permutations that the variations go through. The
    theme (not always borrowed) is almost incidental and quickly gets subsumed. Look
    where Rachmaninoff takes that Paganini melody, or Brahms with that Haydn riff.
    No question of original creativity in those examples.\r\n\r\nIn contrast, my Respighi
    and Stravinsky examples are more about updating the voice of the original -- new
    harmonies and textures -- but the original material comes singing through. This
    is similar to, but not quite the same as, transcription or orchestration, like
    what Schoenberg did with Bach (grey area). Or, a more obvious example: what Stokowski
    did with Bach (\"ITC Bach\" anyone?).\r\n\r\nDan -- Sorry to leave you out with
    these rarefied references to classical music. (Just think of it as my small revenge
    for the What Are You Listening To thread ;-) But you got the idea.\r\n\r\nChris
    -- And then there was that pop singer who borrowed two Rachmaninoff themes for
    his love songs in the 70s -- <cite>All By Myself</cite> and . . . what was that
    other one? Or how about Sting putting Prokofiev's Lieutenant Kije into his song
    \"Russians\" on the <cite>Dream of the Blue Turtles</cite> album. Not revivals,
    though. Not even really reinterpretations. A whole 'nother category of borrowing
    from the past.\r\n\r\n(Sorry, Dan, probably still before your time.)\r\n\r\nBut
    to try to bring this back to type. One might think of Adobe Jenson as a reorchestration;
    ITC Legacy and Legacy Sans might be a Theme & Variations; Vendetta might be seen
    as a complete, Prokofiev-like re-expression and updating of the Jenson form.\r\n\r\n--
    K.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-26 18:32:45'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Kent, your musical analogies are good, but you\u2019re not addressing corruption
    and degradation. Remember when McDonald\u2019s turned <em>F\xFCr Elise</em> into
    a jingle for their fries, when Nike used the Beatle\u2019s <em>Revolution</em>
    in a shoe commercial, or when Vanilla Ice snatched the riff from <em>Under Pressure</em>
    without giving credit where it was due? Some revivals are fabulous reinterpretations
    and reorchestrations, but sometimes a questionable digitization of a bad phototype
    revival of a monotype revival of a\u2026 can equate to digging up the corpse of
    a font to engage in priapic activities beyond the imagination of Eric Gill. \r\n\r\nOf
    course, which revivals fall into which category often becomes a matter of taste."
  created: '2008-01-26 19:03:23'
- author:
    name: solfeggio
    picture: 112465
  body: "<em> ... your musical analogies are good, but you\u2019re not addressing
    corruption and degradation ...</em>\r\n\r\nThat'd be more like Milli Vanilli than
    Vanilla Ice, eh?\r\n\r\n;)\r\nErnie"
  created: '2008-01-26 19:31:34'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@Kent\r\nDon't get me wrong, I love me some classical music. But I tend to
    get lost in the Bach. So I stay with the heavy stuff that will rock the room,
    like Mahler, Borodin, Tchaikovsky. I get lost in the subtleties. Beethoven/Mozart
    piano stuff is also game, since I grew up sitting next to the soundboard of my
    mom's gigantic upright grand, <em>feeling</em> every note.\r\n\r\n@James\r\nI
    like your analogy, since it brings home my cheesy wedding band point even closer
    to home. You could add the myriad of classic rock songs that Puff Daddy butchered
    too. <em>Worst thing ever</em> to happen to a Police or Zep song. "
  created: '2008-01-26 19:37:57'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "<em>(As an aside, I\u2019d love to be able to see Matthew Carter\u2019s Yale
    typeface at a higher resolution instead of the low-res GIFs on the Web, and possibly
    also another one of Carter\u2019s own typefaces designed for the book The Aldine
    Press by Nicolas Barker, composed by Gerard Lange.)</em>\r\n\r\nI'm a bit late,
    but you can see the Yale typeface in PDF form here: http://www.yale.edu/bulletin/pdffiles/divinity.pdf
    . As far as I know, the Yale University Courses of Study are viewable for anyone,
    not just Yale students (especially since I'm not at the Divinity School). "
  created: '2008-01-26 20:00:49'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>I\u2019m a bit late, but you can see the Yale typeface in PDF form here:
    http://www.yale.edu/bulletin/pdffiles/divinity.pdf . As far as I know, the Yale
    University Courses of Study are viewable for anyone, not just Yale students </em>\r\n\r\nYup,
    link works for me. Interesting and instructive to zoom in on the pdf.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/yale_4532.jpg]"
  created: '2008-01-26 20:31:21'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "James -- No I'm not, you're right. In my previous comments I was only trying
    to draw out some distinctions by citing parallel approaches to revivals and revivalism
    from another art form -- focusing on some of those with more integrity.\r\n\r\nI'm
    talking about the historical classical music references above. \r\n\r\nThe foray
    into the pop references, on the other hand, was a response to Chris's citations.
    Your examples venture further into the arena of outright appropriation and further
    into areas where motives and creative integrity become suspect.\r\n\r\nThis is
    much the same territory that John Downer was exploring in his article.\r\n\r\n--
    K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-26 22:34:05'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: I think that there is an important disanalogy with the music examples. Appropriation
    of music is an appropriation of content. Reviving a typeface is an appropriation
    of a form. The proper analogy  with music would be using musical notation.
  created: '2008-01-26 23:10:57'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Scratch that suggestion of the analogy with musical notation \u2014 doesn't
    work either.\r\n\r\nMy feeling about all of these worries about NOWNESS and using
    things from the past is that the present is made up of 99.999999% past. The world
    is not made new at every moment, it consists of enduring things that resonate
    with us because we have grown up with them and remember them and their traces
    are all around us. I think the idea that there is a contemporary image which can
    be sheared off from the past is an illusion \u2014 not a dangerous illusion, just
    a misleading one."
  created: '2008-01-27 10:47:48'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: Thanks Reed, very interesting indeed.
  created: '2008-01-27 13:45:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"a contemporary image which can be sheared off from the past\"\r\n\r\nI
    am not saying contemporary time can be sheared off from the past. Time is a continuum
    like a flowing river of soup. Each generation adds something to the soup as it
    flows by but nobody removes anything. Eventually, the blend is noticeably different
    than it was in some past era. The flavor of the soup evolves. If some generation
    adds nothing to the soup and only relies on what has been flowing already for
    sustenance, their generation will not have been removed. They will just have been
    borrowers and users with such low self esteem that they think nothing they do
    could ever be of value. What if Garamond and Baskerville had never designed any
    type because they felt that only what was in the soup already was worthy? We would
    not have their work now to be appreciated.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-27 15:55:08'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/alpha_soup_3431.jpg]'
  created: '2008-01-27 21:54:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the idea that there is a contemporary image which can be sheared off
    from the past is an illusion</em>\r\n\r\nI am alive. Griffo is dead. So are the
    folks who produced Bembo.\r\nThe post-modern idea that original work is not possible
    today is toxic to present-day creatives, because it favours corporate recycling
    and facile history-mining, to the detriment of living designers and artists who
    start from scratch.\r\n\r\nOf course, one cannot divorce oneself from the past,
    and it necessarily informs one's work, and can be a huge stimulus.\r\nBut there
    is a difference between, on the one hand, \"authentic\" revivals, retro script
    fonts, facsimiles, tracing and cut and paste, and on the other, starting with
    an idea and attempting to give it form. To expand on this, I documented several
    of the different ways that some of today's type designers are doing original work
    in a 2004 article in <em>Graphic Exchange,</em> <a href=\"http://www.shinntype.com/Writing/NewPlast.pdf\">New
    Plastic Weapons.</a>\r\n\r\nBTW, I have nothing against retro, and have done a
    few revivals myself, I just think that we should hold original work in higher
    esteem--because it's so much more difficult, and it is so very hard to break free
    of the past, even a little, and find one's own voice.\r\n\r\nNew technology is
    the biggest asset, because we have tools with capabilities the old guys didn't.
    And they had some we don't. So that at least gives us a chance to be different
    and not overawed by the legacy.\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-27 22:20:37'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Chris and Nick \u2014 completely agree, I'm all for creativity and for people
    making their new contributions. I would think everyone here is for that. I suppose
    the title of this thread has given this discussion an odd gait. Praising and encouraging
    new creative idea shouldn't require disparaging the works of the old, dead guys.
    There is something a bit post-modern too about the idea that it should: as though
    \"we would be able to write top-notch plays right now if it weren't for that dead
    Shakespeare dude\". \r\n\r\nBut here: \"The post-modern idea that original work
    is not possible today is toxic to present-day creatives, because it favours corporate
    recycling and facile history-mining, to the detriment of living designers and
    artists who start from scratch.\" Completely agree."
  created: '2008-01-27 23:13:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Griffo is dead.\r\n\r\nBut his type, and type design ideas are not. \r\n\r\nAs
    Larry Oppenberg pointed out to me at the Museum of Printing, in all this churning
    of technology, with one expensive machine replacing another, and huge investment
    primarily in producing machinery, the  thing that survived were not the machines,
    but the alphabets, the type designs. \r\n\r\nGriffo's ideas are alive, as are
    Baskerville's, Bodoni's etc. \r\n\r\nThese designs are not dead because they are
    great. They are reinterpreted in every generation, and so have become 'styles',
    but they are still alive. "
  created: '2008-01-27 23:17:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "But with the exception of the proprietary Yale face, AFAIK Griffo's work
    has NOT been reinterpreted since the 1920s.\r\n\r\nPoliphilus and Bembo were reinterpretations,
    but the digital Bembo is not, and Robin Nicholas' recent version is a (useful)
    nuancing of Monotype Bembo.\r\n\r\nGaramond, Jenson & Caslon (sounds like a law
    firm) have been adapted to digital media in many and various ways, from contemporary
    letterpress specimens of their designers' day, but digital Bembo is a relatively
    verbatim transcription of the 1920s face.\r\nThat parrot is dead.\r\n\r\n<em>they
    are great...they are still alive.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd so are the works of Beethoven
    and Bach, which I enjoy from time to time.\r\nBut typography is too beholden to
    its venerable past--it's like living in a world where most radio stations play
    classical music.\r\nDon't get me started on classic rock, or Saab and Gill Sans.\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-28 00:02:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Dan,\r\nThat was BRILLIANT!! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-28 00:27:46'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "The problem with Bembo is that it is a Monotype face. Given their very long
    history it doesn't matter if it is machine comp, photocomp, digital. If one views
    the typeface in technical terms that can be considered both good or bad.\r\n\r\nIt
    really doesn't matter much it's origin (that is just sort of a lot of the old
    marketing bullshit anyway), it is actually a very good typeface design, or it
    would not have survived through those various transitions in technology and still
    be relatively popular.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2008-01-28 08:17:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Jack Yan's <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/jya/aetna-jy/\">Aetna,</a>
    2002\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-28 10:52:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, Griffo's work and Bembo are two different things. If I remember rightly,
    Garamond is in a straight line from Griffo--a line from teacher to apprentice
    of people who actually possessed Griffo's type and tried to learn from it. And
    Garamond could be classified, as an \"interpretation\" of Griffo's designs, using
    Downer's terminology. Every 'old style' shows the stamp of Griffo's work, which
    is why there is now the category called 'geralde'.\r\n\r\nAs to revivals, I think
    that fewer versions of Bembo may be due to the fact that it is still under Monotype
    copyright, and so people have gone for old styles that are less close to it. Still,
    as you point out, there are (at least) two close alternative versions, Bembo Book
    and Aetna. \r\n\r\nI think it is somewhat similar to Electra, which was also messed
    up and too anemic, and would have surely been revived except for ownership issues.
    \r\n\r\nFrankly, what I can't understand is why there are not more versions of
    Baskerville, as 'New Baskerville' is also weak in the same way. Maybe Storm's
    Baskerville fills the need, but I haven't seen it at work that I know of. \r\n\r\nBy
    the way, I think this discussion is a little too holier-than-thou. If publishers
    want to pay for a better digital Baskerville, then it is worth somebody's time
    and effort to do it. Giving people good designs that they want, which are more
    conservative than many designers want doesn't make the public philistines. The
    idea that novelty is of overwhelming importance is a narrow designer's perspective,
    and not a publisher's or author's or reader's one. Type design is a servant art,
    serving the author, publisher, and reader. If you can do that with a fresh design,
    that is awesome. But it you can do it with a better conservative design, that's
    also great. \r\n\r\nWhoring after novelty can be just as much a mistake as being
    stuck in the past.  "
  created: '2008-01-28 14:40:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, this isn't my new faces vs. your Caslon.\r\n\r\nYou're conflating mere
    novelty with doing original work. \r\nNever mind original, think of it as new
    work.\r\nOr just work!\r\n\r\nIt's not really about the typefaces, but the people
    who make them, and, by extension, all artists and designers.\r\n\r\nIt's not about
    the public being philistines, because original work can be conservative. \r\n\r\nIt's
    about book designers favoring a 1929 type design that is owned by a corporation,
    rather than recently designed faces that put money in the pocket of living designers,
    contributing to a culture of design that represents the present day.\r\n\r\nMaking
    a living telling your own story isn't whoring.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-28 16:16:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Bill, this isn\u2019t my new faces vs. your Caslon.\r\nI didn't say so,
    and don't think so. As I have said in almost every post, I think there is plenty
    of room for both good revivals and good new faces. --And I certainly hope for
    both yours and mine!\r\n\r\n>Making a living telling your own story isn\u2019t
    whoring.\r\nI didn't say it was. I do think there is such as thing as overvaluing
    novelty, particularly in the arts. Everything new is not progress. Design work
    can fail by being stale, and can fail by producing novelty that doesn't well serve
    the purpose of the design. \r\n\r\nWhat leads to good design, in my opinion, is
    identifying a real design problem, and using insight and visual imagination to
    find a good solution. When novelty comes out of that process as a by-product of
    the problem-solving, it tends to be organic and lasting. When the main aim is
    novelty, I think it tends to be superficial and flop. \r\n\r\n>You\u2019re conflating
    mere novelty with doing original work.\r\nNever mind original, think of it as
    new work.\r\nOr just work!\r\n>It\u2019s not about the public being philistines,
    because original work can be conservative.\r\n\r\nNow I'm not understanding you
    Nick. Above you seemed to be railing against conservative revivals, but now not.
    I thought that by your standards just doing a digital Bembo that better gives
    the color and look of the metal Monotype Bembo is a waste of time. Eg. the new
    face Bembo Book, or any other effort in the same line is a waste of time, and
    no designer should do it--and you seemed to say also that using such a face is
    a slap in the face to every living designer. Am I misreading you? Am I the only
    one who reads you as saying that? What do you mean? "
  created: '2008-01-28 16:45:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>you seemed to be railing against conservative revivals</em>\r\n\r\nI
    guess there are two kinds of conservative here.\r\nThe digital Bembo is a conservative
    revival, because it was taken from the 1929 drawings (AFAIK). Revivals that are
    taken from printed letterpress tend to be more interesting, because more interpretation
    is required, as there is no master image.\r\nThen there are conservative original
    designs, like Arno and Kingfisher--but these are not revivals. \r\n\r\n<em>I thought
    that by your standards just doing a digital Bembo that better gives the color
    and look of the metal Monotype Bembo is a waste of time. </em>\r\n\r\nNo, I had
    earlier said Bembo Book was \"useful\".\r\nBut it would have been more useful
    with more optical sizes, and IMO more interesting if it had been derived from
    printed samples, rather than drawings.\r\n\r\nIncidentally, that's one reason
    that the classics afford reinterpretation -- different redesigners see different
    things behind the letterpress image, with its ink gain and irregularities, and
    naturally find different ways of standardizing the type, cleaning up the image,
    and finding ways to render the trace of the letterpress process--which was part
    of the design--in high resolution digital media.\r\n\r\n<em>using such a face
    is a slap in the face to every living designer.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not criticizing
    individual instances, but systemic behaviour.\r\nI like old things, but not all
    the time.\r\nTypographers need to take the classics for a spin (I know I have).
    \r\nAnd then move on.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-28 17:31:21'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "It came up in previous threads about Griffo but I thought it was worth mentioning
    <a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/509/griffoclassico-family.html\">Griffo Classico</a>
    by Franko Luin, designed in 1993. Although he says the Roman is based on the De
    Aetna type it looks more like some earlier typefaces both by Griffo and by Nicholas
    Jenson (especially in the e and g). The italic is more interesting because it\u2019s
    inspired by Griffo\u2019s own work instead of that of the calligrapher Tagliente,
    which was the basis for the Monotype Bembo italic.\r\n\r\nAs for the general direction
    of this thread: I don\u2019t think anybody is truly arguing that the past is not
    worth studying or taking inspiration from, nor that innovation is overrated and
    we should all produce revivals without proposing anything new. In my opinion we
    need to look in both directions and try to look for goodness and fitness for purpose.
    Let\u2019s not get stuck in extreme positions!"
  created: '2008-01-30 15:35:04'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/16a-Dwi-Pada-Sirsasana_5705.jpg]'
  created: '2008-01-30 15:53:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Dan,\r\nHas this thread gotten you all bent out of shape? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-30 16:26:18'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Or just feeling flexible?
  created: '2008-01-30 17:43:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Knot exactly how I would describe it, Eben :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-30 18:09:24'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Actually, I'm head-over-heels for this thread...
  created: '2008-01-30 23:25:33'
date: '2008-01-25 00:57:04'
title: Why Bembo Sucks

---
