---
author:
  name: charles ellertson
body: Why is it that the [[superior figures]], if present, are always on the same
  body? Whether you're using them for footnote calls or scientific superiors -- or
  anything I can think of -- they need to act like proportional numbers, not tabular.
  It wouldn't hurt if they were kerned, either.
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: All typefaces? Or specific?
  created: '2008-01-28 22:17:48'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Not to say there aren't some out there, but all the fonts I have that include
    superiors have them on a common body. Anyway, Miguel gets tired of me being specific
    -- but to Adobe's credit, at least they include them in fonts that could be used
    for text.\r\n\r\nOr are you asking if specific typefaces should have \"proportional\"
    superiors, whereas others should have \"tabular\" superiors? I can't think of
    any reason to have \"tabular\" superiors, but maybe I'm missing something."
  created: '2008-01-28 22:29:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Surely when superior figures appear in a footnote, they are neater if the
    same width.\r\n(The same is true of the traditional reference marks.)\r\n\r\nThe
    space on either side of the one is part of the character, and helps distinguish
    it from l and I.\r\nNonetheless, the number 11 as a reference number in text may
    need a bit of kerning!\r\n\r\nNumerator and denominator figures may be kerned,
    for use in arbitrary vulgar fractions (sounds pretty punk, eh?)"
  created: '2008-01-28 22:56:55'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Surely when superior figures appear in a footnote, they are neater
    if the same width.</cite>\r\n\r\nOnly with one style, not much used. That style
    is flush & hang with superiors numbers. If you use paragraph style, with either
    on-line or superior numbers, it matters far less. Yes, you can make a case for
    tabular numbers, esp. if the book uses notes a lot of reference-type notes --
    <cite>ibid</cite> & title-only citations create a lot of short lines, so the numbers
    do form a sort of list.\r\n\r\nI can't remember the last time we set superior
    note numbers for footnotes proper. It does happen, in once or twice per every
    500 books.\r\n\r\nNote calls are an entirely different matter. Whether you are
    setting footnotes, end-of-chapter notes, or end-of-book notes, they have to be
    signaled in the text. Those are always superiors. Frequently, they fall after
    quote marks, periods, or commas. The way everything is spaced today (from most
    foundries), you get a very tight sequence of letter, period, quotedblright, and
    then a very gappy set of superiors. And the numbers themselves need kerning against
    the punctuation, they are too tight against a quotedblright, and too far after
    a period or comma. Then, you also run into a few authors who call a note after
    a word without punctuation. \r\n\r\nBut if you really want to do it in perfect
    harmony, have two sets of superiors for notes, one for the calls in the text,
    one for the few times when superiors are used in the note proper. And I suppose
    you could add another set for scientific superiors, if you think a particular
    font is good for setting science or math. "
  created: '2008-01-29 01:59:53'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Any reason one couldn't have both proportional and tabular superiors (and
    inferiors) in the same typeface, no?\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-01-29 02:55:15'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "No reason, I suppose. I'm sure your boffins can do it, but I can't think
    the feature code for that one through. \r\n\r\n(And if you implement it, don't
    forget the kerning with proportional!)"
  created: '2008-01-29 03:08:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks Charles, this is valuable information.\r\nCould you post some specimens
    which demonstrate your preferred spacing in the situations you mention, showing
    where you have had to add or remove kerning?\r\n\r\n<em>Any reason one couldn\u2019t
    have both proportional and tabular superiors (and inferiors) in the same typeface</em>\r\n\r\nDon't
    spoil the lad Thomas, he'll have nothing left to do if the fonts practically set
    themselves :-)"
  created: '2008-01-29 04:17:40'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "It's much more insidious than that, Nick. If, through complexity, Adobe can
    drive all non-Adobe type designers mad, we'll be the only ones left making new
    typefaces! Mwahahahaha!\r\n\r\nOr, maybe not.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-01-29 09:12:34'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Nick,\r\n\r\nOK, examples using Arno Pro, from the foundry, set in InDesign:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/footnotecall_6464.jpg]"
  created: '2008-01-29 15:33:39'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: The little-descending slash actually is a very good trick to avoid -- more
    kerning trouble with descending letters to the left!&nbsp;&nbsp;;-)
  created: '2008-01-29 16:49:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Charles:\r\n\r\n1. Yes, superior figures should be kerned to follow lower
    case letters, if for nothing else than \"f\". However, some negative kerning may
    be useful when following letters such as \"a\". So, for an OpenType font, the
    designer should create a kerning class for the superior figures, and then kern
    one of those, the two, against the lower case. Question: is there ever a need
    for superior figures to follow capitals or small caps?\r\n\r\n2. So, you're suggesting
    the 7 is too close to the quote mark? I would agree. However, in this and the
    following example, I don't have a problem with excessive space between superiors--it
    is of the same order as the space between lower case figures, and surely the goal
    is to create evenness amongst the different typographic elements? The 7 4 sequence
    is most gappy of figure combinations, but occurs so rarely, let's leave it to
    the typographer/comp to kern, if they consider it necessary.\r\n\r\n3. The problem
    with introducing kerning between a period or comma and following superiors--it
    backfires when the mark itself follows f, r, v, w, or y, and is kerned negatively
    with them. In those situations, the arm of the f, for instance, would touch the
    superiors following the mark. Therefore, as letter-to-mark is a more frequent
    occurence, mark-to-superior kerning must be left to the typographer/comp. There,
    still some work for you guys to do, at least until Adobe invents three-character
    contextual kerning!\r\n\r\n4. In an oldstyle face, where capitals and ascenders
    have different heights, and the f is frequently tallest of all, surely it's not
    a problem to have a variety of vertical alignment. As with accents (diacritics),
    it's a judgement call for the type designer, based on the face and the particular
    accent/superior, whether to align by centering along a horizontal axis, or \"flush
    bottom\".\r\n\r\n5. I'm afraid I have to disagree. IMO, the slash should, as much
    as possible, disambiguate from the vertical extremity of all other characters.
    Generally, this means it's a little above cap top, and a little below baseline,
    only lining up with ascender top in old style faces. I mean if you're OK with
    the irregular depth of old style figures, which is never the same as the descenders
    of letters, then surely having the slash somewhere else again fits in with that
    scheme. After all, if the bottom of the slash is lined up with the bottom of the
    descender, the question arise, why isn't it lined up with the bottom of the old
    style figures? It's better to have it line up with neither, which provides greater
    consistency."
  created: '2008-01-29 17:08:25'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "[An addition. Nick, I only saw your post after clicking the \"post\" button!]\r\n\r\nSpacing
    superior numerals and letters is tricky and hard to address with the current sidebearings+kerning
    approach: superiors are smaller and need less space \"within\" (inbetween two
    superiors) but more space to the outside (between normal glyph and superior).
    Solving this by pair kerning alone would require kerning them with almost the
    entire glyph set. In future this could be done contextually.\r\nThe same, btw,
    is true for all caps spacing. Uppercase letters usually are spaced to fit best
    in lowercase context. This implies that with the current pair kerning approach,
    \ uppercase-uppercase pairs requires a lot of kerning to make the white space
    in A L T V W Y disappear. Again, contextual positioning can help by not only do
    pair-wise corrections but by giving uppercase letters completely different sidebearings
    in all caps context.\r\n\r\nYour examples uncovers a weak point. Not so much of
    Arno or any other particular typeface, but of the underlying font technology."
  created: '2008-01-29 17:20:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '[Duplicate post deleted.]'
  created: '2008-01-29 17:28:42'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "First of all, I'll abandon the comment on the slash -- it is as deep as an
    old-style figure, and that's enough. And it is off-topic.\r\n\r\nBack to superscripts:
    Obviously, the clashes & too tights should be fixed, either in the font, or by
    the compositor as set.\r\n\r\nAs to kerning the superiors themselves: whatever
    balance you want should be achieved. But look at the space between 7 and 4. Just
    like any other set of numbers, if not kerned, it is far greater than the space
    between 6 and 9. And 69 & 74 as note calls could well fall in the same paragraph
    Then look at 100. The space between the one and zero is large; the space between
    the two zeros quite small. etc. Just like with any tabular number set.\r\n\r\nThe
    example I gave does not show the usual situation, justified copy, with all the
    compromises of word spacing that occur on the page. But these spaces between the
    word and the note call are fixed, in that they result from the sidebearings of
    the characters themselves. How you space them needs to accommodate a tight and
    a loose line. Ideally (I believe), there should be less space between the number
    & what it refers to than in the following wordspace, whether that space be tight
    or loose in a particular line of justified text. Nothing new here, it is simply
    that these numbers must be made to space correctly just like any other set of
    numbers.\r\n\r\nFor what it is worth, when I rework a font, I make these numbers
    proportional (varying setwidths). I then kern them against themselves. I next
    kern them individually (pairs kerning) with close quotes, periods, and commas,
    because that is the most commonly found placement. When I get the sidebearings
    just right, I probably could use class kerning for period/comma & quoteright &
    quotedblright and the \"super\" class. I suppose if you are a foundry, you'd consider
    it sloppy not to do so. For me, since as a comp I have to go back into the file
    & find my place, I use pairs kerning for important stuff.\r\n\r\nFor the rest,
    these are the characters I start with:\r\n\r\nquotesingle  asterisk exclam  bracketright
    c d e g i j k l p r s t v w x y question uni02BE uni02BF];\r\n\r\nadjusting the
    class as needed for particular fonts. \r\n\r\nAnd typical kerns:\r\n\r\n   pos
    @_quotesingle @_zero.super 50;\r\n   pos @_f2 @_zero.super 130;\r\n \r\nFWIW"
  created: '2008-01-29 21:40:41'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I think the safest thing for now might be to put in two sets, one proportional
    for setting 'numbers', and one tabular on a 1/4 em or so and shifted right until
    the biggest right kern <em>in the Family</em>, is cleared, just for setting 'notes'.\r\n\r\n\"OK,
    examples using Arno Pro, from the foundry, set in InDesign:\"\r\nThe alignment
    is bad, the weight, width, kerning, and spacing too. Are these drawn, generated
    or borrowed from Optima?\r\n\r\nI agree with Nick on the slash. I try to make
    it embrace from below the l.c. to above the U.C., regardless of descent. \r\n\r\n\"Uppercase
    letters usually are spaced to fit best in lowercase context.\"\r\nA good point.
    Uppercase in many old style faces, are also 'designed', to compose best in a lowercase
    context.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-29 21:43:09'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "The Arno was set in InDesign, with nothing done to the font, just used as
    it came from the foundry, with default ID settings.\r\n\r\nBUT. I exported a PDF,
    brought it into Photoshop, and had to resample for 600-wide pixels. That probably
    fuzzed it up. I'm not use to making screen dumps, or posting images, for that
    matter. I may not be all that good with words, but sure better with them than
    with all this new stuff.\r\n\r\nSet it yourself & see what it looks like."
  created: '2008-01-29 21:53:10'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> Question: is there ever a need for superior figures to follow capitals
    or small caps?</em>\r\n\r\nAcademics can and will footnote anything, so, yes!"
  created: '2008-01-29 21:56:35'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Sorry, I see that Nick wanted an example of a font I'd worked over. For good
    or ill, here is a worked-over Adobe Garamond set just as the previous example:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/note2_3521.gif]
  created: '2008-01-29 22:38:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks, they all look good to me, except the long slash.\r\nAnd I don't believe
    you made any change to vertical alignment in item 4.\r\n\r\nI'll be putting character-to-superior
    kerning in all my future fonts, and making the superior and inferior figures proportional
    and kerned. I just hope there's not some other important usage of superiors/inferiors
    we've overlooked where's it's necessary for them to be tabular!"
  created: '2008-01-30 00:23:35'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\"at least until Adobe invents three-character contextual kerning!\"\r\n\r\nAlready
    exists, and is supported in the AFDKO, and in InDesign. FontLab and other retail
    tools don't do it yet, however. Not sure about VOLT.\r\n\r\nAs it works just like
    other contextual stuff, I doubt that three glyphs is a limit in either AFDKO or
    InDesign, but I'm not sure how large a context has been tested.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-01-30 00:48:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Here's a usage where tabular superiors are required: price lists which use
    the \"superior cents\" style.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sups_5098.jpg]\r\n\r\nIt
    seems to me that the option of Tabular or Proportional figures should be available
    for ALL figure styles.\r\nAt the moment, the \"tnum\" feature would seem to allow
    this, but how do Quark and Adobe interpret this--if I create an OT class of tabular
    superiors and another of proportional superiors, and put the appropriate coding
    in my \"tnum\" feature, is this something that could be implemented by a layout
    application?\r\n\r\nAnother instance is \"cap figures\".\r\nI am producing several
    typefaces which have three-quarter lining figures as the default or default lining
    figure, but which also have cap figures (cap height and weight) for when \"case\"
    (all caps) is applied. At the moment, I am making most of these figures proportional
    and kerned, but that doesn't cover all potential uses. Ideally, and in honour
    of the great god Proliferation or his pal Becozwecan, why not have tab cap figures
    too? in fact, the font shown above IS with tab cap figs, because the superiors
    align with the top of the caps and cap figures, and not with the three-quarter
    figures."
  created: '2008-01-31 21:01:15'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>and put the appropriate coding in my \u201Ctnum\u201D feature, is this
    something that could be implemented by a layout application?</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    should work. The application doesn't care which glyphs your tnum or pnum cover.
    The important thing is feature order. If your superior feature precedes tnum/pnum,
    then your addition will do. If they are ordered the other way round, then your
    superior feature needs to replace tabular numerals with tabular superiors, and
    proportional numerals with proportional superiors, because the tabular vs proportional
    selection has been done already.\r\n\r\n<cite>It seems to me that the option of
    Tabular or Proportional figures should be available for ALL figure styles.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn
    a way, yes. Unfortunately every addition does not add to but multiply the number
    of numerals ... I really hate doing numerals. They cost me at least half the design
    time.&nbsp;&nbsp;:("
  created: '2008-01-31 21:48:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "OK, the simplest method is to have one set of superior figures which is both
    monowidth AND kerned.\r\n\r\nThe kerned version is of course the default according
    to the layout application, and that's good, because that's what's mostly used.\r\nBut
    on the rare occasion when tab superiors are required, just enter \"0\" in the
    kerning field and voil\xE0--tab figures!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-02 05:06:31'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Or use two (identical) sets of superiors, both tabular, but one is kerned
    while the other is not. Then 'pnum'/'tnum' would care rather than kerning settings.\r\n\r\nEarlier
    I wrote -- <cite>... superiors are smaller and need less space \"within\" (inbetween
    two superiors) but more space to the outside (between normal glyph and superior).</cite>\r\n\r\nAs
    simple solution: Imagine that superiors are spaced rather tight so that a string
    of superiors looks well spaced, but superiors and surrounding non-superior letters
    are a bit too close. Now the latter can be adjusted like this:\r\n\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;@SUPERIORS
    = [zero.sup one.sup two.sup ...]\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;@NON_SUPERIORS = [A B C
    ...] # contains all glyphs not being superiors\r\n\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;feature
    kern {\r\n\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;# here the content of your standard
    kern feature:\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;lookup standardKerning {\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;pos
    V odieresis 10;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;pos X
    one.sup 10;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;pos @UC_V
    @LC_O -50;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;} standardKerning;\r\n\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;#
    increase space between non-superiors and superiors:\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;lookup
    spaceBeforeSuperiors {\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;pos
    @NON_SUPERIORS @SUPERIORS 15;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;} spaceBeforeSuperiors;\r\n\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;#
    increase space between superiors and non-superiors:\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;lookup
    spaceAfterSuperiors {\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;pos
    @SUPERIORS @NON_SUPERIORS 15;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;} spaceAfterSuperiors;\r\n\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;}
    kern;\r\n\r\nThe trick is to use <em>two</em> additional lookups for adding space
    leftside of superiors and rightside of superiors independently. Space inbetween
    two superiors is not touched.\r\nAn advantage is that effectively you do a global
    adjustment -- and are still free to <em>also</em> kern superiors the usual way.
    Kerning values resulting from different lookups will add. E.g. the pair \"X one.sup\"
    will be kerned at 25.\r\nA disadvantage is that older and most current applications
    would ignore this kern feature completely because it contains more than one lookup.
    Adobe CS2/CS3 applications <cite>can</cite> handle this, and hopefully other applications
    will add support too. Considering that many Word users may not know how to switch
    on kerning anyway, I don't think this is a real issue.&nbsp;&nbsp;;-)\r\n\r\n(There's
    a more elegant solution with contextual positioning which would get more matches,
    but it does not work yet.)\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2008-02-05 16:41:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Or use two (identical) sets of superiors, both tabular, but one is kerned
    while the other is not. Then \u2019pnum\u2019/\u2019tnum\u2019 would care rather
    than kerning settings.</em>\r\n\r\nYes! \r\n\r\nHowever, isn't your kern feature
    code a bit of \"overkill\"?\r\n\r\nFirstly, I wonder if kerning after superiors
    is ever necessary? For closing quote marks perhaps?--but shouldn't a font already
    have enough of a left sidebearing on its quotemarks anyway?\r\n\r\nSecondly, isn't
    it best just to go through the alphabet and proportional figures, and kern each
    superior figure individually?"
  created: '2008-02-05 17:23:28'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Hello Nick!\r\nThis is as tiny as it can be.&nbsp;&nbsp;:)&nbsp;&nbsp;You
    should see the code for uppercase spacing which is built on the same basic idea
    ...\r\nEven though these additional lookups are located in the kern feature, better
    consider them as <em>spacing</em> adjustment rather than kerning. They make sure
    that else too narrow sidebearings get 'normalized' in context of glyphs other
    than superiors. It is like adjusting the fundament, based on which you would do
    the fine-tuning: Indeed you would go through relevant pair and kern them individually.\r\n(Also
    I don't say that such an adjustment is required in every typeface. It's just an
    offer. As trivial as this solution is, it can be helpful for similar general spacing
    adjustments too.)\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2008-02-05 21:56:27'
date: '2008-01-28 22:07:43'
title: Speaking of tabular figures...

---
