---
author:
  name: eliason
  picture: 109936
body: "If you had to guess, how long would you expect it to take for a newbie to design
  an alphanumeric font, u&lc? Imagine that this hypothetical person is...\r\n\r\n...
  very good with computers generally, but only moderately experienced in vector drawing
  and not at all in font design apps\r\n... pretty well versed in typographic history
  and closely familiar with a wide range of existing types\r\n\r\nHow many hours/week,
  for how many weeks or months would you estimate it to take? What other variables
  might need to be taken into consideration in estimating the person-hours required?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>What other variables might need to be taken into consideration in estimating
    the person-hours required?</em>\r\n\r\nIs the font going to be a display font,
    or a text font?"
  created: '2008-01-30 23:47:45'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Good question. I'm afraid of even starting, since Thomas Phinney came to
    my class and scared the bejesus out of everyone by telling them how long Robert
    Slimbach would work on a font. Ouch.\r\n\r\nSo here are my guesses, based on what
    I would plan on doing, 1-2 hours a day to start:\r\n\r\nThere's obviously the
    need to know the interface and workings of the design app. Maybe a week or less
    of fooling around with tutorials?\r\n\r\nThen the design stage on paper or rough
    digital, with pre-production planning, thumbnails and roughs. Maybe 1-2 weeks?
    Maybe have the basics of the entire U&lc/numerals within 3?\r\n\r\nThen the outlines
    begin, and if my Adobe Illustrator classes have taught me anything, good beziers
    only come with time and experience. For me, I'd say that this would be the bulk
    of the work. 2-3 months? Any longer than that, and I quit. This is supposed to
    be my first font, not my last.\r\n\r\nLast, spacing and kerning, which I know
    should be done roughly during the previous stage, but finalized and perfected
    here, alongside testing and revising. Maybe a month?\r\n\r\nSo, what's that add
    up to? I'm willing to invest about 5 months to get a good, solid font that covers
    all the basics and doesn't suck. I'm sure I could whip out some autotraced \"grunge\"
    font in about a week, but who'd want to?\r\n\r\nAnyone think I'm totally off base
    with my assumptions?"
  created: '2008-01-30 23:52:15'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: I think it all depends on when you define something as 'finished'. What are
    your quality standards, etc. I guess you could make a typeface in 5 months, but
    I think 2 years isn't so strange either.
  created: '2008-01-31 00:34:29'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "It depends on your level of preparation, your comfort level with the tools
    at hand, and your goals for the design. If you're limiting yourself to basic western
    Latin character sets (union of Windows Latin, MacRoman, Latin-1 and Latin-0 encodings),
    five months might be a bit long of an estimate, but not unrealistic. \r\n \r\nI
    turned out my [[http://www.1001fonts.com/font_details.html?font_id=2206|first
    font]] in about a week, but [[http://typophile.com/node/41105|the one I'm working
    on currently]] has been in progress off and on for 5 years or more."
  created: '2008-01-31 00:42:59'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "But as a first font? I'm sure you could have one in the works for two to
    ten years, but it's like anything. You need to see tangible results of your effort,
    and two years stretches the credibility of any first-time endeavor.\r\n\r\nMost
    of the people I know started out making less-than-perfect fonts because they were
    made relatively quickly, but they got bitten by the bug and their patience and
    quality control standards rise with every subsequent typeface. \r\n\r\nI'd say
    that for myself, I might very well stretch out the bezier perfection stage, because
    I'm a perfectionist when it comes to that sort of thing. (Of course, that's exactly
    what is needed in a type designer, and is precisely the reason why Slimbach will
    spend a decade on his fonts.)"
  created: '2008-01-31 00:45:58'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "My first font took a couple of months working sporadically. I don\u2019t
    know that it was ever really finished so much as I did as much as I could with
    my first big typeface idea before realizing how fundamentally flawed it was. \r\n\r\nBut
    it was definitely worth the effort."
  created: '2008-01-31 01:02:42'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: How long does it take to find a gap in the current offering of type that really
    needs to be filled?
  created: '2008-01-31 01:31:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: A more interesting question is how long after releasing your first font will
    you regret doing so? ;-)
  created: '2008-01-31 01:40:28'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: 'answer to all of the questions above: 128 hours 42 minutes 3 seconds'
  created: '2008-01-31 03:20:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Forever.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-31 03:42:30'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "I did my first font as an undergraduate thesis project. I still am happy
    with the overall concept I had, but if I were ever to bring it to market, there
    would be thousands of extra hours I'd put into it. I'd say I grossly underestimated
    what was involved in creating a font, and I'd imagine that's a common realization
    for most designers.\r\n\r\nCheck out http://www.typeworkshop.com/index.php?id1=type-basics
    for some general guidelines\r\n\r\nThe best thing to do is open up FontLab and
    look at how some fonts you love are built. The first thing I realized when doing
    this is 1) most of the bezier points are at 90 degrees or 180 degrees, and 2)
    the best fonts are not slaves to the sketch you scan in, nor do they slavishly
    try to adhere to any geometric or mathematical rules. "
  created: '2008-01-31 04:20:38'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Simon has it: first fonts aren't usually fit for release. While you're learning
    a process with so many weird variables, don't work under the expectation of a
    final product. If you happen to take on something manageable and within your capabilities,
    it MIGHT end up worth releasing, but that's not something you can determine until
    you get halfway into it.   \r\n\r\nPossibly a better question: how long until
    a good font? \r\n\r\nSince there are thousands of different approaches, and thousands
    of possible styles, there can be no standard, even if you gave the same challenge/assignment
    to 100 people of equivalent experience and skill. Some fonts are autotraced (and
    not necessarily garbage), and some are carefully hand-drawn, one glyph at a time.
    Revivals, digitized lettering, adapted handwriting, large type systems, roman
    and italics, etc. etc. are different kinds of design challenges. Your first font
    is likely to be a learning experience, so you will repeat or discard previous
    work when (yes, when) you discover it isn't right. \r\n\r\nThe other thing about
    estimating this time is the additional time that typefaces seem to need to be
    left alone, unseen, while the designer has other experiences and gets some distance
    from the design. You can't count that as design time, but the time has to pass,
    and it contributes to the design. \r\n\r\nLet's just say the answer is probably
    \"longer than you think\". "
  created: '2008-01-31 04:53:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Let\u2019s just say the answer is probably \u201Clonger than you think\u201D.\r\n\r\nGreat
    answer, Carl.  "
  created: '2008-01-31 05:00:47'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Wow. Many great answers.\r\n\r\n<em>Your first font is likely to be a learning
    experience, so you will repeat or discard previous work when (yes, when) you discover
    it isn\u2019t right.</em>\r\n\r\nSo true in my case (and I haven't touched it
    in a good two years, now). But don't be discouraged, eliason -- making mistakes
    is good, as long as you are ready to learn from them. :-)"
  created: '2008-01-31 05:27:16'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "Hey eliason, sorry I can't answer your question - I'm currently kickin' out
    one of my own. Athough I'm down with Illy and PS (etc.) I'm still in a paper and
    pen phase. And to that I've gone through about two hundred pages of drawings (including
    putting together some words), and so far - I have worked up 22 letters yeah! Only
    4 more to go! Type design is friggin awesome stuff! \r\n\r\nUsually I spend a
    couple of hours in the morning and a couple more at night 4-5 days a week for
    the past three weeks working one this 'thing'. I'll take my work into Illy in
    about a week. I'll also kick out some PS stuff featuring a few of the more groovtastic
    letters long before I get through the vector phase, just to say hello. \r\n\r\nI'm
    not using anyone else's work as a blueprint. Its all fresh. But, in a round about
    way I am trying to honor Bodoni and Glaser - just to say thanks (yeah know what
    I mean).\r\n\r\n\r\nYeah Dez - never, sounds about right ...to much fun!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-31 06:10:20'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: We should totally start a thread where the old tymers here on Typophile can
    show us some of their firsts. Ya know, just to throw something to the newbie type
    designers.
  created: '2008-01-31 06:37:40'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Personally, I'm rather embarrassed by my first typeface, and glad that it's
    hidden away on a shelf. Along with my second, third, fourth....  :)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-01-31 08:17:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: Boo hoo blub sniff.
  created: '2008-01-31 11:31:28'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Neil: To save large chunks of your time: Don't use Illustrator, and certainly
    not Photoshop (PS?). Waste of time; you can spend one week (force yourself) using
    TypeTool, Fontographer, FontLab or whatever actual type-making software, get used
    to the drawing tools, and avoid all the converting, scaling, pasting, etc. etc.
    Once you're accustomed to the environment, you will wonder why you wanted to use
    Illustrator. If you want to draw in Illustrator (or you already have), you can
    use FontLab's [[http://www.fontlab.com/font-converter/scanfont/|ScanFont]] to
    conveniently convert everything and assign it into FL cells, but that to me seems
    like a last resort. \r\n\r\nAs long as we're talking about type design taking
    forever.....   ;)\r\n\r\nIt would be fun to show early efforts, but probably psychologically
    unhealthy. Or at least cruel. "
  created: '2008-01-31 16:13:24'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Thanks to all for the answers, esp. to Dan for the detail!\r\n\r\n<em>How
    long does it take to find a gap in the current offering of type that really needs
    to be filled?</em>\r\n\r\nThis newbie's assumption would be that it is for his
    own sake, and not the world's, that this type would come to be!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-31 21:50:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The trouble is, at first, you don't know that you don't know. It takes a
    couple of years to acquire the skill and knowledge to figure out that what you
    did at first was pretty naive and that you need to learn more. The catch 22 is
    that until you have stumbled around for a while, you won't be able to properly
    perceive and absorb what you need to know. This all, perhaps, may come more quickly
    in a fine school like Reading where you are surrounded by a community of expertise
    and colleagues going through the same process--I can't say for sure. I have been
    stumbling around for 4 years now on my own and have a dozen typefaces \"in the
    works\" but none \"finished\"--whatever that means is a moving target. The more
    you learn, the more you realize that you are further from being \"finished\" than
    you first thought.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-31 22:13:08'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "I have been 'designing a typeface' for around a year. As I have never designed
    type before the year has mostly been spent learning, reading, sketching. The result,
    however, is not a pre production set of sketches ready for digital drawing, it
    is simply a better idea of what it is I want to achieve!\r\n\r\nI think my project
    is fairly ambitious for a first typeface. As a result it will take a lot longer
    and may be designed several times over. These different versions will encompass
    several attempts. \r\n\r\nMy first typeface may therefore truly be my 3rd or 4th."
  created: '2008-01-31 22:15:23'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I wonder how many \"unfinished\" typefaces there are floating around in the
    ether? I bet there are some good ones that people are too picky about the let
    go, but that in other's opinions are amazing. \r\n\r\nSee also Slimbach, Robert.\r\n\r\nI
    wonder what Garamond or Caslon's first typefaces looked like. I bet the master
    punchcutter busted them over the knuckles with a stick, and heaved the whole lot
    into the Arno river. Who knows, maybe we should go diving?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-31 22:17:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Think of it like your perspective when climbing a mountain. When you are
    at the base of the mountain, you think you clearly see the summit so you start
    to climb what looks life a reasonable obstacle. As you climb up to the first level,
    you see that what you thought was the peak, was actually just an interim step.
    You continue to climb only to see that just as you approached what you thought
    was the tallest reach, your vantage point gives you a view of something still
    higher. This continues to happen again and again the further you climb. Since
    I have yet to reach the summit, I don't know enough to tell you where it is or
    how much farther I will need to climb. I can only say that from my vantage point,
    the view to the top is now less than the view to the base down below where I started
    in 2004.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-31 22:23:09'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "It's strange that you mention that analogy ChrisL because I was thinking
    of something similar.\r\n\r\nClimbing Mount Improbable By Richard Dawkins uses
    the same analogy to make the theory of evolution more palatable."
  created: '2008-01-31 22:28:17'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Although I have just become aware of a massive contradiction in that comparison!
    Dawkins is explicity rejecting the notion of design!
  created: '2008-01-31 22:32:05'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Although I have just become aware of a massive contradiction in that comparison!
    Dawkins is explicity rejecting the notion of design!
  created: '2008-01-31 22:32:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "After rereading my last, post, I realized that it was somewhat akin to Plato's
    allegory of the cave in his Republic.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-31 22:38:57'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Most designers I know reject "intelligent design" (both kinds)  '
  created: '2008-01-31 22:40:23'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: I have not read Plato's Republic.
  created: '2008-02-01 00:09:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That is OK, 1985, I have not read \"Climbing Mount Improbable By Richard
    Dawkins\" either :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-01 00:42:45'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> After rereading my last, post, I realized that it was somewhat akin
    to Plato\u2019s allegory of the cave in his Republic.</em>\r\n\r\nI dunno, sounds
    more like Sisyphus!"
  created: '2008-02-01 02:02:09'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Who you calling a sissy?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sissy_lacy_03b_4482.JPG]"
  created: '2008-02-01 02:24:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"sounds more like Sisyphus\"\r\n\r\nHis task was unrewarding though and
    without achievement. That is not true of type design.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-01 03:18:42'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> But Sisyphus teaches the higher fidelity that negates the gods and raises
    rocks. He too concludes that all is well. This universe henceforth without a master
    seems to him neither sterile nor futile. Each atom of that stone, each mineral
    flake of that night-filled mountain, in itself forms a world. The struggle itself
    toward the heights is enough to fill a man's heart. One must imagine Sisyphus
    happy.</em> \r\n-- Albert Camus\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-01 03:37:22'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Dawkins is explicity rejecting the notion of design!</em>\r\n\r\nIndeed.
    See another book of his, <em>The Blind Watchmaker</em>, which is also about Darwin's
    theory of evolution."
  created: '2008-02-01 14:24:14'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> I wonder how many \u201Cunfinished\u201D typefaces there are floating around
    in the ether?\r\n\r\nMost of them are available on the free font sites on the
    web. \r\n\r\n:)"
  created: '2008-02-01 14:31:05'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "My first font (<a href=\"http://www.autodidakt.se/index.php?page=allfonts\">Neptuna/Exemplar</a>,
    which today is more of a \"super family\") took totally 14 years to finish, and
    it's not even out in the market yet (but almost there). But perhaps 8-10 years
    out of that I was not productive at all since I got stuck with a \"bad contract\"
    on it. \r\n\r\nMy second (<a href=\"http://www.autodidakt.se/index.php?page=navelfluff\">Navelfluff</a>),
    third (<a href=\"http://www.autodidakt.se/index.php?page=trentor\">Trentor</a>),
    fourth (<a href=\"http://www.autodidakt.se/index.php?page=trentorscript\">Trentor
    Script</a>) and fifth (<a href=\"http://www.autodidakt.se/index.php?page=autostyler\">Autostyler</a>)
    font I made in couple of months altogether, while learning FontLab, but that was
    crazy display fonts and they take less time.\r\n\r\nMy sixth font family (<a href=\"http://www.autodidakt.se/index.php?page=flieger\">Flieger</a>)
    took about one year to finish and now waits for \"administration-before-release
    issues\" to be solved.\r\n\r\nNow I have been working on my seventh font family
    for a 2-3 years, and my eight I started working on a couple of months ago.\r\n\r\nBut
    I have a full time job also."
  created: '2008-02-01 15:10:46'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Sorry to have turned this thread into a book review :)\r\n\r\nThat said,
    I believe that the above titles are all of interest to a type designer because
    the process often appears insurmountable!\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-01 15:23:41'
- author:
    name: David Sudweeks
    picture: 112594
  body: "Since we're on the subject; how long does it take to learn to play guitar?\r\nI've
    always wanted to."
  created: '2008-02-01 15:32:51'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>Since we\u2019re on the subject; how long does it take to learn to
    play guitar?\r\nI\u2019ve always wanted to.</cite>\r\n\r\nI got one as a gift
    at age 12. Wasn't mature enough to deal with lessons until I was 14. From there
    I played non stop to about age 21 when I landed at a Jazz school and realized
    I was an underexposed idiot and had no taste. Now at 41 I've wrecked my wrist
    and have convinced myself again that I do have taste. What was the question? Oh,
    it has taken me 29 years to learn not to play the guitar. Perfect!"
  created: '2008-02-01 15:59:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...The struggle itself toward the heights is enough to fill a man\u2019s
    heart. One must imagine Sisyphus happy.\r\n\u2014 Albert Camus\"\r\n\r\nThis is
    Camus' wonderful take on it and I quite agree that the undertaking of type design
    is not only a labor of love but a love of the labor. However, the intention of
    Zeus in the original was of an eternal punishment having no redeeming value for
    Sisyphus. Camus was using the classical example of Sisyphus to explain his own
    thoughts, not what Zeus had intended for the guy who pulled a Linda Tripp on him
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-01 16:43:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Since we\u2019re on the subject; how long does it take to learn to play
    guitar?\r\n\r\nGuitar lessons at Punchcut\r\n\r\nhttp://flickr.com/photos/joepemberton/1188302731/in/photostream/\r\n\r\nnow
    we know why the edit comments bug still isn't fixed ;-)"
  created: '2008-02-01 18:56:13'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: PWND
  created: '2008-02-01 20:25:24'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "<em>How many hours/week, for how many weeks or months would you estimate
    it to take?</em>\r\n\r\nIn a few weeks I'll be publishing an article on iLT about
    my type design process. I'll be using my soon-to-be-released Newzald as an example.
    Even though it isn't my 'first', it may help to answer your question!\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2008-02-01 20:34:07'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "I look forward to reading that Kris, compliments on your designs, National
    in particular!\r\n\r\nOne question; what is iLT?\r\n\r\nThanks"
  created: '2008-02-02 02:37:44'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>what is iLT?</em>\r\n\r\n[[http://ilovetypography.com/|I love typography]]"
  created: '2008-02-02 04:15:35'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "Carl, thanks for the tip(s), and I don't mind posting my work. It'll be good
    to get the funk out. I look forward to the Typophile brand of push - nothing wrong
    with honest crits.\r\n\r\nOne thing I have noticed that's very cool about Type
    design is the totality of the letters. Each letter seems to have it's own character,
    yet each letter keeps within the same groove, yeah? Letters are such characters...
    but when all combined the whole is greater than the sum of its parts.\r\n\r\nI'll
    post something in a couple weeks...\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-02 09:38:45'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I'm embarrassed to say that my first attempt at a font probably lives on
    in the critique section. I'm too scared to check.\r\n\r\nI soon realised that
    my first attempt was a dead-end and soon abandoned it. I started drawing all over
    again with a better idea of what I wanted. And then I found fatal flaws in that
    design as well, and that got aborted as well. And then rinse and repeat.\r\n\r\nWhile
    my numerous attempts so far bare little resemblance to each other (I've done garaldes,
    transitionals, bracketed serifs, wedge serifs, and waded through a broad range
    of design decisions), each successive attempt represents a refinement of the previous
    idea. So arguably, I've been working on my first font for more than two years.\r\n\r\nThe
    mountain metaphor is a good one, I find. Well, I wrote about climbing Mt Kilimanjaro
    in my college application essay, and noted how scaling the peak in the cover of
    darkness with no real sense of how much we had left to climb probably prevented
    us from giving up in despair.\r\n\r\nI remember thinking when I began my first
    font that I'd be able to finish it in a couple of months at most. I can't believe
    how untrained my eyes were at the time, and as much as my font has improved in
    the last two years, I know now that I still have a long climb to go. You can expect
    my font by 2015."
  created: '2008-02-02 15:45:00'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: I would recommend making a several fonts quickly, even if they are no good,
    rather than agonizing over the same thing for years. As a matter of fact, I would
    recommend if anyone has spent more than a few weeks on a particular font, and
    it's still not working, just put it away and start something else. The font may
    work out once you look at it with fresh eyes, but usually what you draw in the
    mean time is better anyway.
  created: '2008-02-03 21:50:15'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "I started sketching and thinking about my second font in 1999. A revival,
    mind you, and just one cut, so don\u2019t ask me why it aint finished yet.\r\n\r\nBefore
    that (around 1992 I think) I did a real quick and dirty one, with Fontographer
    (that I bought especially for this) of a book cover font that struck my fancy,
    na\xEFve and impressionable I was at the time. Took me a day or thereabouts to
    digitize the existing glyphs and make up the rest of the caps and lc. Posted in
    on the web (called CompuServe at the time, haha).\r\nAnd I did see that typeface
    being used, to my shame, (NO, I will never tell \u2014 it seems to have disappeared
    in the digital void, thank Allah).\r\n\r\nThe last four years I have been thinking
    about a new concept. Could take some time, though. But I DID buy the most recent
    software, just in case\u2026 And I have done pages and pages of sketching.\r\nNothing
    digital yet\u2026\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-02-03 22:19:18'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "As many others have said, it's probably important to start and finish a typeface,
    even if you realize more and more that you have everything to learn in the process.
    You will always be learning if you are really interested in doing good things.\r\nNot
    being a \"professional\" type designer I always suffered from the problem of not
    finishing what I started.\r\nMy first typeface with some idea behind it had been
    [[http://www.emigre.com/ot.php?id=113|Ottomat]], and I owe a lot to Rudy and Zuzana
    Licko for having published it, since I would have probably continued designing
    and perfecting things without never ending them.\r\nDepending on your motivations,
    if you work for many years - somnetime sporadically - on a family, you may end
    up realizing the face no longer relates to its premises and/or to your experience,
    and so it can happen that:\r\n1) you drop it, even if you worked on it for a long-long
    time;\r\n2) you manage to understand it in context and you re-work it considering
    the acquired gifts.\r\n\r\nFor me, I'm unable to say if my own Neoritmo (designed
    mostly between 1996 and 2000) will ever see the light in its actual state.\r\nMy
    friend Panos Haratzopoulos of Cannibal Fonts used it (designing a Greek version)
    for a great project: the new identity of the [[http://www.benaki.gr/index.asp?lang=gr&id=10101|Benaki
    Museum]] in Greece, but this, besides being a great honor, showed impiously all
    Neoritmo's problems to me\u2026"
  created: '2008-02-06 21:24:37'
date: '2008-01-30 23:21:21'
title: How long until a first font?

---
