---
author:
  name: paul d hunt
  picture: 109422
body: 'Today at [[University of Reading|Reading]], we had the first part of a series
  of seminars looking at typeface legibility. In it we presented two papers and discussed
  them, the first one being [[Kevin Larson]]''s <a href="http://www.microsoft.com/typography/ctfonts/WordRecognition.aspx">"The
  Science of Word Recognition"</a> and the second being "ClearType sub-pixel text
  rendering: Preference, legibility and reading performance" by Sheedy, et al. The
  Sheedy paper is the one that sparked my interest. In it 5 legibility studies on
  CT are discussed and if I understand correctly, the results have thus far been inconclusive
  as to whether legibility is improved with the aid of CT technology. However there
  was 1 study that asked subjects to self-rate factors of comfort of reading. It occurred
  to me that comfort may actually be a more important factor to consider than legibility
  or speed when speaking of reading. It seems less important to me to discuss whether
  people <em>can</em> read something as opposed to do they <em>want to</em> read something
  based on the degree of comfort or discomfort created by the type. Of course, there
  are some situations (such as highway signage) where legibility and speed of reading
  is important, but I believe that in a majority of situations these factors are less
  important. When focusing on the factor of comfort, the problem as it seems to me,
  is that it may appear to be a soft target when compared to legibility/reading speed.
  I have heard talk of studies that are looking at the effects of patterns created
  by type and certain patterns actually creating discomfort, even at the level of
  causing stress and fits in the reader. Personally, I think that this aspect of reading
  is the more interesting one. If any of you have opinions or can shed more light
  on this topic, I would love to hear what more can be said in regards to the comfort
  or discomfort caused by type.'
comments:
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: I totally agree! This quest for speed always seemed to me a bit modernistic.
    Form shouldn't only follow (supposed) function but other things as well.
  created: '2008-01-31 14:46:56'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "In my understanding \"readabilty\" and \"reading comfort\" are the same thing.\r\nIn
    German we don't have separate terms to describe legibility and readability, so
    I use \"Lesekomfort\" (reading comfort) to translate the word \"readability\".\r\n\r\nSo
    with reading speed you directly measure the comfort. It's not like you could read
    something fast, but feel uncomfortable doing it. It's because of the comfort that
    you can read it fast. "
  created: '2008-01-31 14:48:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">It occurred to me that comfort may actually be a more important factor to
    consider than legibility or speed when speaking of reading.\r\n\r\nPaul, I have
    been arguing for three years here on Typophile the same thing. I guess you haven't
    been interested in those threads. \r\n\r\n'Ease of reading' is the 1960's definition
    of [[readability]] that I cite in the typowiki. I have repeatedly proposed in
    these threads that decline in comprehension with time, or speed with time, or
    both, be used to measure mental fatigue. Eye fatigue is probably another matter.
    \r\n\r\nI am reading more about this now, but am about to travel. I'll post more
    when I get the chance. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-31 14:58:58'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I think that reading comfort is important because it breaking through a readers
    comfort zones can be a great way to manipulate them. For example, if the <em>Harry
    Potter</em> novels had been set in Eureka Serif and not whatever traditional Aldine
    they were set in, it would have fought against the warm fuzzies feelings Rowling
    uses to pull readers into her story. But in books that come at a reader from a
    deeper or more radical perspective, it can be useful to deliberately use something
    unexpected; good examples would be Octavia Butler\u2019s novel <em>Parable of
    the Talents</em> and Warren Ellis\u2019 <em>Crooked Little Vein</em>, both set
    in modern faces (Didones IIRC) that keep the reader from settling in effortlessly.
    Of course one has to be careful not to go too far; I\u2019ve gone through a book
    about the Bauhaus set entirely in Futura and wanted to kill the designer by the
    end.\r\n\r\nThis approach is not limited to books, of course. If a signmaker passes
    over Arial/Helvetica for Meta, the most generic sign suddenly becomes a lot more
    eyecatching, especially if there\u2019s a <strong>g</strong> in there somewhere.
    The NYT article on ClearviewHWY noted that ATT became much more successful at
    spreading its message after a switch to ClearviewHWY. At the Dallas/Fort Worth
    airport I noticed people staring at the letters in the signage, just taking in
    how good whatever typeface it was really looked; good luck pulling that off with
    Helvetica.\r\n\r\nAt the end of the day it all comes down to remembering to break
    Typographic rules now and then."
  created: '2008-01-31 15:09:35'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>In German we don\u2019t have separate terms to describe legibility and
    readability</em>\r\n\r\nThat's the great think about English, we have terms that
    split hairs infinitely. I don't think that the comfort i'm referring to here is
    the same as legibility. I think something can be perfectly legible and may yet
    be uncomfortable, but I could be wrong. Maybe what I'm interested in boils down
    to personal preferences, as what is comfortable for one person may not be for
    another. In relating to CT, I think it's great to have a tuning tool that allows
    the user to tune the rendering to their greatest degree of comfortable reading.
    The studies I cited above show that there is not a significant difference in legibility
    for differing levels of CT adjustment, but they do show that there is a clear
    preference by users for certain settings over others. It would be interesting
    to try to find out what unconcsious factors affect making decisions about what
    type readers find more or less comfortable.\r\nIn regards to the studies written
    about by Sheedy, they were funded by Microsoft. My understanding is that Microsoft's
    goal is to make the reading experience of reading on screen as comfortable as
    reading on paper. The fact is referred to that people often prefer to print out
    documents rather than to read them on screen. I doubt that printed documents are
    <em>that much more</em> legible than screen documents. I think this is due to
    the fact that it's simply more comfortable to read the printed document than the
    on-screen version.\r\n\r\n<em>I guess you haven\u2019t been interested in those
    threads</em>\r\n\r\nI used to read them, but found that they often get bogged
    down quite rapidly. I guess I should expect the same here."
  created: '2008-01-31 15:21:12'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: Legibility means it can be deciphered; decoded. It's more elemental. Readability
    does imply something about comfort; it can be read at length without discomfort.
    2 different things, Paul.
  created: '2008-01-31 15:40:45'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>I think something can be perfectly legible and may yet be uncomfortable</cite>\r\n\r\nOf
    course! I didn't talk about that, because I was assuming the people here would
    all agree on that. \r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>In relating to CT, I think it\u2019s great
    to have a tuning tool that allows the user to tune the rendering to their greatest
    degree of comfortable reading. </cite>\r\n\r\nI think this is just about what
    everyone is used to. I startet to use ClearType as soon as it was available and
    soon after that, hated it to look on screens without it. Now I am on a Mac and
    don't like to read text on Windows anymore. I don't think the Mac rendering is
    better, I am just more used to it. "
  created: '2008-01-31 15:50:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I agree with you Paul. Too often, readability threads get into pi\xDFing
    contests that become more about opinion clashes of the posters than just helpful
    discussion. \r\nI think that reading comfort, as you describe it, is different
    than the typically cited number of eye movement regressions definition of readability.
    What Paul is talking about is more the social science way of seeing preference
    of reading rather than the physiology measure of eye movements. That is not to
    say that there may be some degree of correlation between the two. What the correlation
    means, however, is still a matter of opinion. For me, there is great value in
    examining the user preference angle. I do feel it is a moving target by demographics
    or specific intended audience. My mother's type preference is not the same as
    my daughters no matter what the Larson studies say.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-31 15:50:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Perhaps much of it is about definition. Perhaps what I mean is \"User defined
    preference in reading comfort\" as opposed to physiologic measure of reading comfort.
    \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-01-31 16:07:01'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>2 different things, Paul.</em>\r\n\r\nyes, i know.\r\n\r\n<em>Readability
    does imply something about comfort</em>\r\n\r\ni think that what i'm trying to
    address is less about \"readablility\" that takes comfort into account as one
    factor, as much as it is about pure reading comfort. Personally, I feel that these
    two concepts warrant distinction, if others don't agree, i'll drop the issue."
  created: '2008-01-31 16:08:10'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Now that I think about it, how do we make Adobe aware that some of us might
    be more comfortable with the option to <em>not</em> use the rendering engines
    built into Adobe\u2019s software?\r\n\r\nEdit: I\u2019m not trying to derail this
    thread into Adobe rants, but it raises the idea that giving users options in this
    area is probably beneficial."
  created: '2008-01-31 16:08:22'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Paul, I think things become bogged down because we assume that everyone has
    a basic undestanding of what legibility and readibility are. And to a great extent
    we do. When we cannot read something because of how the characters are formed
    we say the writing is illegible, and when we cannot navigate a text because of
    how it is set or layed out we say the text is unreadable. \r\n\r\nThe problem
    arises when science introduces measures \u2014 like frequency of regressive saccades,
    or reading speed \u2014 to precisely gauge these largely lived-experiential matters.
    Science tends to use metrics that don't fully encapsulate the reality it tries
    to investigate.\r\n\r\nThe solution is to not generalize data about small differences
    in the frequency of regressive saccades or small differences in words per minute
    to bald statements about large issues. That a serif type performs better than
    a sans across a wider range of trackings is not necessarily a statement about
    relative legibility. It might just mean that sans serif types are more sensitive
    to bad spacing.\r\n\r\nYou ask about the importance of comfort relative to legibility.
    To me they are countervailing pressures. Legibility is a basic requirement, so
    should be fully understood. Comfort a human need that promotes the engagement
    a text seeks."
  created: '2008-01-31 17:46:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Peter''s last post should be read and re-read by everyone involved in this
    and other discussions on legibility and readability until it is fully absorbed:
    a clear and succinct description of the experiential and experimental context
    of these discussions, with some sensible advice re. generalisations from data.'
  created: '2008-01-31 20:43:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "There is only one crucial measure of readability, and that is comprehension.
    All other measures -- speed, comfort, pleasure -- are meaningful only relative
    to comprehension, because if one hasn't taken in what the text contains (which
    is not necessarily the same thing as understanding the text, which depending on
    the nature of the text may take years) then everything else is worthless. We read
    in order to comprehend text; everything else -- the pleasure or pain the text
    gives us, the things we do with the information therein -- is secondary. One can
    go further: comprehension is reading, reading is comprehension. If you read without
    comprehending, you are not really reading, you are just going through the mechanics,
    when what matters is the result. Most discussion of readability focuses on the
    mechanics, rather than on the result.\r\n\r\nI want people to be able to read
    comfortably because, as Peter says, comfort is a human need. So in other words
    I want people to comprehend text while in a comfortable state. There are other
    human needs that can be typographically addessed: aesthetic pleasure, cultural
    connectivity, a sense of both history and progress. Unfortunately, the most common
    experimental measure, relative to comprehension, is none of these things, it is
    speed. Capital makes speed a virtue, because 'time is money'. But speed is not
    a human need."
  created: '2008-01-31 21:02:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Comprehension, yes.\r\nAnd beyond that, will it change your life?\r\n\r\nColin
    Weildon's research, which, as he's an ad man, is in a somewhat different league
    than Kevin Larson's, asked readers questions about facts buried in the text, to
    see which type layouts work best. Sans vs. serif, that sort of thing. The goal
    was to find out what best gets readers deep enough into the text to respond to
    the \"call to action\" in an advertisement, which appears well into the copy,
    if not at the end, urging them to call now or clip the coupon.\r\n\r\nThe sense
    in which a comprehension of advertising copy may become actionable is similar
    to whether the ideas in a novel \"stick\" with the reader, because it's one thing
    to comprehend the grammar, another to get what writer is saying, something else
    to be moved by the writing, and something else again to read words that change
    your life -- whether it's buying something new or changing your political viewpoint.\r\n\r\nType
    can do all that."
  created: '2008-01-31 21:34:50'
- author:
    name: gerry_leonidas
    picture: 128150
  body: "Very strange to make this comment here, but anyway.\r\n\r\n<cite> I have
    heard talk of studies that are looking at the effects of patterns created by type
    and certain patterns actually creating discomfort, even at the level of causing
    stress and fits in the reader. </cite>\r\n\r\nThe main research in this area is
    from Arnold Wilkins, from the University of Essex. He has identified a narrow
    range of frequencies which cause discomfort (or may trigger worse effects, such
    as epileptic fits). The periodicity he has identified can be seen in any modulated
    image: from a floor pattern to a painting; of course, typeset text was a prime
    candidate to look into. He has had some interesting results, well worth looking
    into.  \r\n\r\nOh, and he was in the Department last week: we are looking to test
    the effect across scripts, and we have some ideas about the contribution of counter
    shapes to the onset of visual stress or its absence. \r\n\r\nSee you tomorrow!"
  created: '2008-01-31 22:59:26'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Nice thesis' Paul, Peter, John\r\n\r\nI think it could be useful to make
    subjective reported comfort something we look at seriously. It's squishy as hell
    as a \"measurement\" but it's also super duper cheap! If it turns out as suggested
    that that it correlates well to things that are objectively testable ( but whose
    tests are expensive/tricky to do ) it might be just the crutch needed while we
    wait for enough type research to occur to really be helpful.  Maybe I am wrong
    but I expect to be waiting a long time."
  created: '2008-02-01 01:27:29'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: My daughter's teacher just told me today her reading facility is many grades
    ahead of her actual grade, but her reading comprehension a couple of years less
    so. Maybe the type in her books is too fast!
  created: '2008-02-01 02:17:46'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "see that  old (1998) thesis:  <a href=\"http://www.psych.ucalgary.ca/PACE/VA-Lab/gkconnol/Thesis.html\">Legibility
    and Readability of Small Print:Effects of Font, Observer Age and Spatial Vision</a>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-01 04:12:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Do we really need measurements to tell us that Helvetica is the most comfortable
    typeface?--which I'm sure they will.
  created: '2008-02-01 04:47:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>but her reading comprehension a couple of years less so</em>\r\n\r\nDid
    you ask them to define what they meant by comprehension? I presume they are linking
    comprehension to vocabulary, so if someone doesn't know the meaning of a word
    they are judged not to comprehend the text even though they may have a perfectly
    sound grammatical comprehension, i.e. they understand the structure of the thoughts
    but not all the content. That's fair, but vocabulary is something that facilitates
    reading comprehension: it is a resource that is used during reading, rather than
    being something intrinsic to reading as an activity (it is also used during speaking,
    writing, and a good deal of thinking)."
  created: '2008-02-01 04:58:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Eben, do you really think we need a crutch? It seems to me that, as a species,
    we've been making language visible and reading it for many centuries now, and
    if anything we've demonstrated extraordinary facility at it. When you consider
    the range of linguistic systems, writing systems, spelling systems, and the range
    of shape sets and styles within which humans read effectively and comfortably,
    the idea that we <em>need</em> reading science to help us seems perverse. I am
    very interested in reading science, but I don't really expect it to be practically
    useful to typeface design. I think it might be able to explain the <em>why</em>
    of some things, which interests me, and one of the things I would like it to explain
    is that extraordinary facility with which humans read. That's worth knowing because
    it would tell us something about what we are. I'm not sure that it is worth knowing
    that test subjects read X typeface fractionally faster than Y typeface in document
    setting A. If I think about everything that makes typography compelling, delightful,
    significant, that kind of information barely registers. Indeed, the factors that
    might influence a typographer to use typeface Y instead of typeface X, despite
    the demonstrated readability advantage of the latter, are all more interesting
    than that advantage.
  created: '2008-02-01 05:11:28'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>I presume they are linking comprehension to vocabulary</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    anecdote the teacher related was my daughter reading aloud flawlessly and fluently
    a passage, but then being unable to answer questions about its content. It wasn't
    so much a matter of vocabulary, I think, as that her attention was on performing
    the pronunciation, not on getting the content. \r\n\r\nMaybe choices of typeface
    should be \"throttled\" to the reader, allowing him or her to go no faster than
    he or she can digest mentally! Or maybe they should be throttled to the text.
    Can't speed through the bold sans serif of your copy of \"Critique of Judgment\"?
    Good! Kant deserves the time that that printing demands! And after that, check
    out this edition of Lacan's <em>Seminars</em>, entirely in Curlz MT!"
  created: '2008-02-01 05:27:01'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Paul: \r\n\"...we presented two papers and discussed them [...] the second
    being \u201CClearType sub-pixel text rendering [...] by Sheedy, et al. The Sheedy
    paper is the one that sparked my interest [...] studies on CT are discussed ...\r\n\r\nAre
    <em> these </em> Sheedy, et al studies, illustrated with examples of the fonts
    that were used in each study?\r\n\r\nThanks in advance, so I don't have to buy
    another one and find nothing to look at :)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-01 13:24:41'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Are  these  Sheedy, et al studies, illustrated with examples of the fonts
    that were used in each study?</em>\r\n\r\nThe article is not greatly illustrated.
    There is one printed image of screenshots taken from MS Reader of Verdana 10 pt
    at each of the Clear Type levels, I didn't think that this illustration was that
    clear or helpful."
  created: '2008-02-01 14:19:13'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>Do we really need measurements to tell us that Helvetica is the most
    comfortable typeface?\u2014which I\u2019m sure they will.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe Met's
    internal style guide for wall texts etc. states that according to research Helvetica
    is the easiest to read. I've often wondered about that.\r\n\r\nTo me the legibility
    vs. comfort issue is like barometric pressure vs. melancholy. One has the promise
    of scientific measurability, the other is some amalgam of sensory input, perception,
    two eggs, and fresh oregano if you have it."
  created: '2008-02-01 15:29:18'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Do we really need measurements to tell us that Helvetica is the most
    comfortable typeface?\u2014which I\u2019m sure they will.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe great
    thing about these studies is that they\u2019re contradicted by the studies of
    features that make type easier to read. Just start contrasting them with all the
    studies that show the importance of legibility and counter spaces and the whole
    thing falls apart. Such an position might not actually get one anywhere productive,
    but at least it\u2019s easy to shut down people who argue in favor of Arial or
    Helvetica because of some horrid study. "
  created: '2008-02-01 16:00:51'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"The article is not greatly illustrated\"\r\nNo Grey Scale to look at compared
    to the CT then, thanks, saved $30 for now...\r\n\r\nJohn: \"Peter\u2019s last
    post should be read and re-read...\"\r\nI agree with you. But in my opinion, 'science'
    does not introduce measures.  I think things become bogged down because we assume
    that <em> anyone </em> has a basic understanding of what legibility and readability
    are, and I think legibility is a <em>personal</em> requirement, so <em> it can
    never, ever </em> be 'fully understood.' When one removes the human element(s)
    from discussion as Peter does, it may word well, while in practical application,
    it's an infinite loop, unless, of course, it is a dead end instead.:)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-01 16:02:49'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: there is a greyscale rendering of Verdana as well in the same graphic i mentioned
    above, i don't think the PDF article reproduced the distinction well enough in
    the illustration, but maybe it'd different in print?
  created: '2008-02-01 16:31:31'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "You write a hell of a paragraph John! And for the most part I agree.\r\n\r\nAlso
    I would be very interested in even a very short description of what you think
    make typography or even just letters/writing compelling, delightful, and significant.\r\n\r\nBut
    having read your reply I also feel like I am in a semantic trap of my own making.
    The word \"need\" isn't crucial to the meaning I had in mind but it informs a
    good deal of what you wrote. To say need does, if you spin it as you have suggest
    that there is something very broken here. That's where I agree with you - there
    isn't. Quite the opposite. You wrote <cite> ...but I don\u2019t really expect
    it to be practically useful to typeface design.</cite> And there again we agree.
    I don't either - especially any time soon. But if it was useful at some point,
    and you could actually make use of it to make a clearly more comfortable engaging
    design, then I think we would also agree that would be wonderful. Am I mistaken?\r\n\r\n*
    I can't expect a tome can I? "
  created: '2008-02-01 16:34:41'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: David, I don't think anybody is say "fully understood".
  created: '2008-02-01 17:37:07'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "Maybe it's time to drag [[http://snurl.com/7ntu|<em>The Crystal Goblet, or
    Printing Should Be Invisible</em>]] out of the closet.\r\n\r\nNick - It's pretty
    rare that I see mention of Colin W<strong>h</strong>eildon in this forum. I was
    fascinated with the results of typography's affect on comprehension <em>and</em>
    retention."
  created: '2008-02-01 17:45:41'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "David, in another place I tried to relate legibility and readability to affordance.
    This means that legibility and readability are \u2018for us\u2019 values. Perhaps
    instead of saying it should be fully understod, I should have said affordance
    ranges and thresholds, across what dimensions, and how much they vary, should
    be fully investigated."
  created: '2008-02-01 18:13:26'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'But Peter they can''t really be "fully" investigated. That suggest thats
    as a scienetist you might run out of questions. You won''t because every result
    you get has potential to raise new questions & hypothesis''. Moreover it is that
    false sense that Science could be used to swallow up a field of interest & somehow
    answer all questions that seems to motivate the seemingly fearful reactions we
    have seen. Or that''s what I think anyway. What do you say? '
  created: '2008-02-01 19:16:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Eben: <em>Also I would be very interested in even a very short description
    of what you think make typography or even just letters/writing compelling, delightful,
    and significant.</em>\r\n\r\nI like reading."
  created: '2008-02-01 19:32:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Eben: <em>But if [reading science] was useful at some point, and you could
    actually make use of it to make a clearly more comfortable engaging design, then
    I think we would also agree that would be wonderful.</em>\r\n\r\nIt would be exactly
    as wonderful as anything else that contributes to good typography -- that's the
    measure of usefulness after all -- and that takes me back to what I wrote, in
    the other thread, about scientific data becoming indistinguishable from anecdotal
    data at the point of usefulness. There is a risk that we -- or someone else, e.g.
    a customer, which I think is Nick's concern -- will fetishise scientific data
    in a way that weights it inappropriately, that treats useful scientific data as
    somehow <em>more</em> wonderful than other kinds of experiential data."
  created: '2008-02-01 19:47:27'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite>will fetishise scientific data in a way that weights it inappropriately
    </cite>\r\n\r\nTHis is well put. And I agree when that happens it is very clearly
    a mistake. It isn't that Scientific inquiry is better or as you beautifully put
    it \"more wonderful\". It's that it is differently wonderful. There is no reason
    that one kind of inquiry has to take up the space of another. Maybe when it comes
    to funding, but intellectually, no way.\r\n\r\nThat access to the benefits Science
    is not evenly or equitably available is on the other hand a legitimate gripe.\r\n\r\n<cite>...about
    scientific data becoming indistinguishable from anecdotal data at the point of
    usefulness. </cite> Maybe. We won't know until they try though. Init?"
  created: '2008-02-01 20:30:12'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "<em>there is a greyscale rendering of Verdana as well in the same graphic
    i mentioned above, i don\u2019t think the PDF article reproduced the distinction
    well enough in the illustration, but maybe it\u2019d different in print?</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    text being tested in this Sheedy article are five different forms of ClearType.
    ClearType figures out which sub-pixels should be turned on ignoring color, and
    then tries to diffuse the perception of color. The different forms are using different
    degrees of color filtering. At one extreme is nearly unfiltered text, which is
    very sharp, but very colorful. At the other extreme is a grayscale, which has
    no color but is less sharp. This is not a traditional grayscale as it doesn\u2019t
    use a box filter, but a rectangular filter. The default form of ClearType that
    we\u2019ve been using is the middle selection of the five options. \r\n\r\nUnfortunately
    it\u2019s very difficult to show these differences in print as they are dependent
    on LCD subpixels. The best way to see the differences between these text samples
    is onscreen using MS Reader. Three of these options are now available as tuning
    preferences in WPF.\r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin"
  created: '2008-02-01 22:18:51'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "I agree with the sentiment of other posters that there are many way to misuse
    the data from studies, and care needs to be taken to not overgeneralize from the
    results of any study. Our goal shouldn\u2019t be to develop a marketing/advertising
    literature, but to understand what makes a good (legible, readable, comfortable,
    pleasant, and engaging) reading experience. \r\n\r\nPeter makes a very interesting
    point when he points out that the metrics that scientists use like reading speed,
    comprehension, eye movements, distance threshold, and preference don\u2019t precisely
    match our intuitive understanding of a good reading experience. And the Sheedy
    study didn\u2019t detect reading speed or distance threshold differences between
    the five versions of ClearType, but did find that version 1 had a higher preference
    with the 10 point text and version 2 had a higher preference with the 12 point
    text. People are able to see and prefer differences between the ClearType versions,
    but they didn\u2019t result in measurable performance differences. In several
    other studies researchers were able to measure both reading speed and preference
    differences between ClearType and black & white rendering.\r\n\r\nMy intuition
    is that there is a (complicated) relationship between reading performance measures
    and a good reading experience. Of course I could be wrong. There is much still
    to be discovered, and new measures likely need to be developed. At ATypI 2006
    and in Typo Magazine I talked about one measure we developed looking at affect
    and measuring the corrugator (frowning) muscle. At ATypI 2007 I talked about research
    into measuring eye fatigue \u2013 this work will hopefully appear in Eye Magazine.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-02 00:39:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"this work will hopefully appear in Eye Magazine.\"\r\n\r\nWhat a perfectly
    named magazine to publish this subject matter in :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-02 01:02:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the results of typography\u2019s affect on comprehension and retention.</em>\r\n\r\nRight
    Steve, retention is the concept.\r\n\r\nRelated to that is re-reading.\r\nI often
    reread text, for varying reasons. It could be a software manual, and that makes
    it painful. However, I'll also reread a passage that explains a new idea perfectly
    with a clever turn of phrase, just to enjoy the writing. I read several parts
    of <a href=\"http://www.alistapart.com/articles/understandingwebdesign\">Understanding
    Web Design</a> by Jeffry Zeldman more than once, especially the section <em>The
    Sustainable Circle of Self-Respect,</em> man that guy can write, and I share his
    sentiments. If you find writing that puts your own thoughts or feelings into words,
    the clarity is worth wondering at. At the other end of the spectrum, I'll usually
    skip bits of novels I find boring. When reading <em>The Curious Incident of the
    Dog in the Night-time,</em> a novel written in the person of an autistic child
    with a penchant for maths, I must confess I didn't read a single one of the paragraphs
    containing mathematical formulae, which the author had tried so hard to integrate
    into the story.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-02 04:04:05'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Paul, to go back to the begining I wonder if you or the other participants
    of the Reading seminar are aware that my 2004 Thessaloniki presentation \u201CLateral
    Interference, Response Bias, Computation Costs and Cue Value: Perceptual Processing
    Touchstones for Typedesign and Typography; or Why Strategic Construction, a Well-Motivated
    Contrast Scheme and \u2018Space Craft\u2019 Still Matter,\" was a direct response
    to Kevin\u2019s \u201CThe Science of Word Recognition?\u201D Both were printed
    in the Czech design magazine <em>Typo</em> along with papers by Mary Dyson and
    Hran Papazian.\r\n\r\nEssentially the paper questions the \u201Cscience\u201D
    of the \u201Cscience of word recognition.\u201D and in doing so draws inspiration
    from Ole Lund\u2019s Reading PhD on legibility studies.\r\n\r\nMy focus was and
    is neither legibility studies <em>per se</em> nor human measures testing, but
    perceptual processing in reading, that is perceptual mechanics. It is meant to
    address the typographer or type designer's pre-understanding of what they are
    manipulating in the context of their making."
  created: '2008-02-02 13:47:10'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Paul, what are your thoughts?
  created: '2008-02-02 20:48:04'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: my thoughts are that i still have a lot of reading to do... the second part
    of the seminar is coming up, i'll see if this article is on the agenda...
  created: '2008-02-04 01:07:54'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I think it would be interesting to divert this thread back to \"comfort\".
    Because I am thinking about Urbana these days I thought I would suggest that one
    reason Urbana works as well as it does is that it has a nice balance of soft &
    sharp shapes. It is neither soft and amorphous nor does it sparkle. Getting a
    nice balance between these is one aspect of comfort. \r\n\r\nGot other variables
    that contribute to comfort? "
  created: '2008-02-04 16:41:17'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Impressive thread. Have not read it all. I will try to contribute soon.
  created: '2009-06-19 19:56:08'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Gee. So what does a poor schnook like me do to make the stuff on his blog
    more \"comfortable\" to read?\r\nAs the guy who owns the domain names readableweb.com/readable-web.com,
    I'm more interested in presenting the \"how to\" aspect of this subject.\r\n\r\n@ralf\r\nI
    found your information fascinating. Is there a German word for \"decipherable\"?
    In English, it seems to me the word \"legible\", in ordinary usage, is interchangeable
    with \"decipherable\". Meaning a series of glyphs large enough and detailed enough
    so as to be able to distinguish one glyph from another.\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-19 23:53:31'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "The article about eye fatigue that I mentioned above was published by Eye
    Magazine last year. The web version lacks the images, but all the text is there.\r\nhttp://www.eyemagazine.com/opinion.php?id=157&oid=414\r\n\r\nEye
    strain caused by poor typography (small text and low contrast in this study) results
    in a different physical response than eye strain cause by an inability for the
    eye to properly focus (accommodation and convergence) or eye strain caused by
    poor transmission of text to retina (glare and astigmatism). For these two poor
    typography conditions the solution is quite clear: high contrast (black/white)
    and larger text than is used on the Eye magazine website.\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-20 15:24:16'
- author:
    name: aaronbell
    picture: 117132
  body: '@kevlar. I thought that was a really good article and it had a lot of strong
    points, but I really wish they had made the font size bigger to make it easier
    to read! I ended up using <a href="http://lab.arc90.com/experiments/readability/"
    title="Readability">Readability</a> to get through it. Hahaha....'
  created: '2009-06-20 16:25:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Economy meets readability when the publishing industry has to scale down
    the text size to reduce printing cost and make room for ads.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-06-20 17:37:42'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Unuther bludy study.\r\n\r\n\"Every time you design a page of text, what
    you\u2019re really doing is creating a high-stress workout for everyone who might
    end up reading it.\"\r\n\r\nPlease, do not use the term \"you\" to include me!
    ;)\r\n\r\n\"Designers need to argue for larger text sizes to reduce the effects
    of eye strain.\"\r\n\r\nWith whom should we argue? Be precise.\r\n\r\nWhy isn't
    there a test comparing low contrast run-of-the-mill ClearType, (the kind everyone
    got as a result of the skewed studies of the past), and high contrast anti-aliased
    clear type, (the kind everyone wants)?\r\n\r\nCheers"
  created: '2009-06-21 13:01:15'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "David, it is unfortunate that the word contrast has several different meanings.
    I wish we had more words to discuss 1) the difference between the thin and thick
    strokes of a letter, 2) the contrast dial on some televisions and displays, 3)
    the sharpness of an edge, and 4) the difference in brightness between dark and
    light areas. We were only looking at the fourth definition of contrast \u2013
    the difference between the white background and the grey to black text. Black
    text is the highest contrast, and lighter levels of grey create lower contrast.\r\n\r\nThe
    overall goal of this project is to understand the physiology of eye strain. Several
    studies that are part of this project have been published and well received by
    the optometry community. ClearType was not a variable that we looked at with this
    project, but I\u2019m glad to hear that you\u2019re interested in further studies.\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-21 16:33:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The overall goal of this project is to understand the physiology of eye
    strain.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd on the side, provide some amusement to the readers of
    <em>Eye</em> under the rubric \"Opinion\", with bizarre statements such as \"Reading
    is a very stressful task.\"\r\n\r\nThose wacky scientists and their \"make the
    type bigger\", right up there with wacky clients and their \"make the logo bigger\"!"
  created: '2009-06-21 18:16:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Bigger is always better except for legal-speak and prison sentences:-)\r\nActually,
    I don't get it. I am 65 years old with trifocals and world-class astigmatism and
    narrow-angle glaucoma. With any reasonable typeface and composition, reading is
    not the least bit stressful. I prefer text type in the 9 to 10 point area, depending
    on the face.  I get annoyed with type that is too big and makes me feel like I
    am looking at highway signs instead of reading a magazine or book. The thing that
    bugs me the most is long line-widths and tight leading. This is the graphic designers
    problem, not the type designers.\r\nYes, brightness contrast is the effect Kevin
    speaks of as opposed to ratio of thick to thin that type designers view as contrast.
    \r\n\r\nActually, clients are often the ones who brow-beat graphic designers into
    making type too big to read comfortably--Or else they want to cram War and Peace
    into a pamphlet to save printing cost. The poor schmuck trying to educate the
    client yet keep the job without pis\xDFing off the guy, is in world of Sheet.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-06-21 18:53:28'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "i like big type.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-21 21:37:28'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "I've got a bad right eye, having Wet Macular Degeneration. I actually have
    a tougher time with widely set word-spacing and letter-spacing than anything else.
    At least when I use both eyes while reading. The macular degeneration causes distortion
    slightly to the right of my central field so the more words and letters I can
    get within the undistorted area, the easier it is for me.\r\nSmaller type size
    works in my favor on that score, too.\r\n\r\nAs far as the article in Eye magazine
    - I got a solid \"how to\" tip out of it:\r\n\"If your goal is to try to limit
    the amount of text that gets read, giving your reader eye fatigue is very effective.
    Try combining tiny text sizes with very light grey text. No one will even try
    to read it.\"\r\n\r\nA whole paper could probably be written on stuff like this:
    Typography As Obfuscation.\r\n\r\nTypesetting the stuff you <strong>don't</strong>
    want people to read."
  created: '2009-06-22 06:41:28'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<cite>Typesetting the stuff you don\u2019t want people to read.</cite>\r\n\r\nFamous
    David Carson-example: setting an awful article in Ray Gun Magazine in Zapf Dingbats.\r\n\r\n.
    . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-06-22 12:20:17'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: In my young days, it was 7 pt Calypso Italic. You have to be really decrepit
    to know what that is.
  created: '2009-06-22 13:51:04'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "a reference to ray gun magazine!  wowie-zowie!       :+)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-06-22 17:59:59'
- author:
    name: aaronbell
    picture: 117132
  body: '@bert_vanderveen to be fair, he did print the article in readable text in
    the back, but for sure the Dingbat version was the better version :)'
  created: '2009-06-22 18:33:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Kevlar:\r\n>1) the difference between the thin and thick strokes of a letter,
    \r\nNo\r\n>2) the contrast dial on some televisions and displays,\r\nDefinately
    no\r\n>3) the sharpness of an edge, and \r\nYes\r\n>4) the difference in brightness
    between dark and light areas.\r\n ...is hardly sounding scientific, but I'm sure
    you can define it better. \r\n\r\nAnd I would hope that making the type bigger
    is referring to screen, and if you are working with the screen, it's ALL ABOUT
    ClearType Kev. It's about all four of your contrast knobs above being disabled
    for users and designers, so size is unimportant to the designer because they can't
    control it. \r\n\r\nDon't optometrists use the web too? Don't they know yet who
    put the \"high-stress workout for everyone who might end up reading it\" into
    the world. This was not here 5 years ago, not for 'everyone'. . . \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-06-23 12:05:31'
date: '2008-01-31 14:15:40'
node_type: forum
title: legibility vs. comfort

---
