---
author:
  name: Dan Gayle
  picture: 111595
body: "A long time ago I tried to get the font from the cover of Joy Division's Closer
  album identified. See [[http://typophile.com/node/32322|This thread]]\r\n\r\nThere
  were no positives, so I decided to digitize it myself. It was missing three letters
  that I had to make myself. Can you guess which ones? \r\n\r\nMy first font, too.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/joy_5745_5436.gif]\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: The kerning looks weird to me in this setting. I went through and kerned the
    heck out of it in Fontlab, but it's not showing up well in InDesign or Photoshop.
    Any suggestions?
  created: '2008-02-03 07:28:18'
- author:
    name: writingdesigning
    picture: 112522
  body: "Looks lovely Dan. \r\n\r\nThe slightly different ones seem to be the 'X'
    and the 'K'. Can't tell which could be the third. "
  created: '2008-02-03 07:51:58'
- author:
    name: Pieter van Rosmalen
    picture: 109564
  body: Q, X and Z?
  created: '2008-02-03 08:43:00'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: What's funny is that you both have the X, but that's original :)
  created: '2008-02-03 08:50:08'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "The three you designed yourself: K, Q, Z.\r\n\r\nCrits:\r\n\r\n* B could
    be wider\r\n* T more could be done with the serifs\r\n* W looks wide\r\n* Z could
    be narrowed\r\n\r\nOtherwise it's sweet Dan.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-02-03 09:04:43'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Dan - did you confirm that the letters were drawn by Saville? I don't think
    he does that sort of work.
  created: '2008-02-03 09:18:27'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@Stewf\r\nI never was able to figure out who did the original type. From
    the inconsistencies, it actually might have been hand lettered. I guess I could
    give a phone call or email to somebody somewhere. \r\n\r\nI forgot to mention
    that in the image above, the first four lines isn't my font. It's the actual scan.
    Not bad, eh?\r\n\r\n@James\r\nThe B is about the same as the S, so I don't see
    it as a major inconsistency. The W is humongous, but that's not a problem to me.
    I followed very closely the original proportions, so I'd rather not mess with
    them.\r\n\r\nBut the Z I can fix, as you've noted that I built that puppy myself.
    \r\n\r\nWhat does everyone think of the K? I looked around for different K's that
    might match the style, but the one I created just felt better. "
  created: '2008-02-03 10:47:28'
- author:
    name: Charles Grant
    picture: 113723
  body: You can get a free version of the 'Closer' typeface [[http://www.btinternet.com/~comme6/saville/fonts.htm|here]].
  created: '2008-02-03 13:52:57'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "No, you can't. \r\n\r\nThat font certainly is NOT the same font that is on
    the cover of Closer. Close, but not Closer.\r\n\r\nWhat is more, it is an SSi
    font called Helios that has been illegally re-branded and distributed. They couldn't
    even be bothered to change the copyright info."
  created: '2008-02-03 14:26:08'
- author:
    name: ferfolio
    picture: 128984
  body: "Hello!\r\n\r\nI like the classic romans type, this type has good things,
    but some need adjustment\r\nAs allways i leave you my suggestion, take it or leave
    it, but i hope i can help:\r\n\r\n\r\n+ You have problems with the widness of
    the letters. What romans did was construct the letters from squares, triangles,
    circumsferences and half a square.\r\n+ The \"J\" looks original but it might
    be confused with the \"I\", try making it more different\r\n+ The \"V\" is bold\r\n+
    The top \"F\" arm is thin if you compare it to the \"E\", the middle arm should
    be at the same heigt in E and F.\r\n+ The \"I\" might be bold\r\n+ The lower arm
    of the \"K\" might be bold, compare it with the \"R\"\r\n\r\nHope i could help
    a bit\r\n\r\nkeep up the work!\r\n\r\nFerch\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[[http://www.tipografia-montevideo.info/|Tipograf\xEDa-Montevideo]]"
  created: '2008-02-03 14:44:17'
- author:
    name: writingdesigning
    picture: 112522
  body: "\"What\u2019s funny is that you both have the X, but that\u2019s original...\"\r\n\r\nYet,
    doesn't it seem to have a relatively lower waistline?    "
  created: '2008-02-03 14:45:43'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>What is more, it is an SSi font called Helios that has been illegally
    re-branded and distributed.</cite>\r\n\r\nIs that worthy of being called ironic?I
    think that is the company all the font-makers were in a dither about back when
    I was just starting to realize there were copyright issues with fonts. In comp.fonts
    there used to be some heated  discussions when the company president Paul Hunt
    would pop in to defend himself, and everyone would attack with such ferocity,
    I sort of felt sorry for him. I guess it all helped draw the lines of what is
    allowed.\r\n\r\n(In time I have come to find that ferocious attacks can come from
    a few misinterpreted statements, so it is best not to take things too seriously)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-03 14:59:04'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>The B is about the same as the S, so I don\u2019t see it as a major inconsistency.</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is good :^)  This is where the \"could be\" clause comes into play. There is something
    about S, as structures go, that makes it more natural in narrow form. The narrow
    B, P and R look fine.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-02-04 15:01:48'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@Strass\r\nI didn't design the widths. That's someone else's deal. I just
    stayed true to the outlines.\r\n\r\nAs to the other bits, I can certainly work
    on the weights of a few of them. The K I have carte blanche on, so I'll work on
    it.\r\n\r\n@Fontplayer\r\nThat SSi stuff is hilarious. I wonder where the original
    Helios came from :)"
  created: '2008-02-04 20:53:41'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>That SSi stuff is hilarious. I wonder where the original Helios came
    from :)</cite>\r\n\r\nI Adobe was a big part of the lawsuit against SSi, so that
    is where I'd start looking. \r\n\r\nIt was many years ago (the early '00s). If
    Typophile  existed back then, there was probably a big discussion going on here,
    since the outcome would directly affect many in the industry."
  created: '2008-02-04 21:48:57'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "The lawsuit ended in early 1998, after the judge made a summary judgment
    in favor of the plaintiffs on some key points.\r\n\r\nhttp://directory.serifmagazine.com/Ethics_and_Law/Copyright/judgement.php4\r\n\r\nGiven
    the history of thousands of other SSi typefaces, unless shown otherwise it is
    reasonable to guess that \"Helios SSi\" is a \"knock-off\" of some earlier typeface."
  created: '2008-02-05 10:46:41'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "It's hard for me to comment much on a revival or reinterpretation without
    being familiar with the original. But I do note that besides some spacing issues,
    it seems like the rounds don't have enough overshoot. Very noticeable on the \"O\"
    and a bit on the \"C' and other rounds as well.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-02-05 10:50:32'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "<em> SSi ....company president Paul Hunt</em>\r\n\r\nLets nip this bit of
    confusion in the bud. Paul Hunt may want to moderate this himself, but he was
    not the man behind SSi."
  created: '2008-02-05 14:35:24'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>The lawsuit ended in early 1998...</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>Paul Hunt may
    want to moderate this himself, but he was not the man behind SSi.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    can't believe it has been that long. \r\n\r\nI apologize for not getting my facts
    straight. The way he was being attacked in comp.fonts, it seemed he was the one
    on trial.\r\n\r\nI tended to side with him, as my font sensibilities were somewhat
    communistic back then. \"Free the fonts for the people!\" might have been the
    rallying cry. How dare the capitalistic bastards charge $40 for something as 'simple'
    as a font. Do they think they own the alphabet, or something?\r\n; )\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-05 15:25:34'
- author:
    name: Mr Barnes
  body: "Mr Schwartz drew my attention to this thread. \r\n\r\nThe original lettering
    for the \u2018Closer\u2019 album was taken from \u2018The Development of Writing\u2019
    by Hans Eduard Meier, which I believe was first published in the late 1950s and
    then in the late 1960s. The later reissue no longer shows this piece of lettering,
    though you can find it here http://www.textism.com/writing/?id=6. Its a very nice
    piece of work, even though the letter J is a little unconvincing. Perhaps its
    unfamiliarity makes it more appealing than the ubiquitous Trajan\r\n\r\nSaville
    then made PMTs of the lettering and then composed all of the lines. The use of
    Roman numerals on \u2018Closer\u2019 is a give away that Saville could not draw
    letters (or numerals). In the 1990s Tobias Frere Jones was interested in making
    a digital revival, but nothing came of it I understand. A digital version was
    made I believe for the reissues.\r\n\r\nI hope this clears up the confusion."
  created: '2008-02-05 15:34:28'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Wow. I searched all over for that info, but it's hard to find. I was about
    to hop on the phone and start calling someone. Thanks a lot for the info. I'll
    have to hunt the book down if I can to get a higher res scan.\r\n\r\nIf there
    was a digital version made for the reissues, it would have been sweet to use for
    the movie. \r\n"
  created: '2008-02-05 17:53:17'
- author:
    name: Mr Barnes
  body: I believe that Peter was asked to do them for both movies, but was unavailable.
  created: '2008-02-05 18:27:30'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "http://sleevage.com/wp-content/uploads/2007/12/worfjd.jpg\r\n\r\nViolent
    mating rituals will tear us apart"
  created: '2008-02-06 07:56:25'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: That's the dumbest image I've seen in a long time. And yet... a chuckle...
    :)
  created: '2008-02-06 08:16:59'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: So here's a question, do you think if I fixed it up nice and pretty I could
    sell it? Or, is it just the kind of thing that I should just mark up to "practice"
    and give it away?
  created: '2008-02-07 02:03:45'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>Lets nip this bit of confusion in the bud. Paul Hunt may want to moderate
    this himself, but he was not the man behind SSi.</cite>\r\n\r\nMan, am I ever
    sloooow. I just had a flashback. I meant Paul King.\r\n\r\nSorry Paul!"
  created: '2008-02-07 03:11:50'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Given how often Trajan is used and how few good alternates (let alone alternates
    with a bit more character) there are I'd say you could sell this. Will you do
    Cyrillic and Greek too?
  created: '2008-02-08 00:18:34'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Good thoughts. Perhaps some of that fancy Roman Numeral opentype coding that
    is oft rumored?\r\n\r\nCyrillic and Greek? I hadn't thought about it. I'd like
    to flesh out the Western European UC character set before I even consider designing
    those badboys. (Now that I think about it, Greek Inscriptionals aren't too far
    removed from the Roman, are they? Perhaps it's something I should look into.)"
  created: '2008-02-08 01:45:45'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Just did a little counting in the ole' Fontlab, and I guess I'm only needing
    ten characters for UC Greek. Cool. That should be fun and instructional. Let's
    see about Cyrillic...\r\n\r\nAhhh. Has a bit more letters to create, but they
    all seem to be basic constructions that can be hashed together using current parts.
    Sweet!"
  created: '2008-02-08 01:59:39'
- author:
    name: Pieter van Rosmalen
    picture: 109564
  body: "And design the lowercase glyphs and the figures to complete the font?\r\n\r\nPieter"
  created: '2008-02-08 12:14:57'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: No lowercase! See [[http://www.typophile.com/node/28295|This Thread]]
  created: '2008-02-08 16:17:32'
- author:
    name: Mr Barnes
  body: I would think that without the permission of Meier you could not make it available
    commercially.
  created: '2008-02-11 11:05:03'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Given how often Trajan is used and how few good alternates (let alone
    alternates with a bit more character)</em>\r\n\r\nMeow-miow! Trajan is a major
    clich\xE9. The Trajan inscription may be the finest example of Roman inscriptional
    capitals, but it is far from representative of the vast bulk of carved lettering
    left behind by the Romans. It's stereotypical only.\r\n\r\nI've seen some recent
    TV documentaries with pictures of incriptional capitals left by the Romans in
    Northern Africa, and the forms are quite different to the Trajan things. The Northern
    African inscriptions are remarkably close to Bodoni/Didone capitals, but with
    angled stressing instead of Bodoni's vertical stressing. I'm not kidding. Fat
    strokes and stems with hairline serifs. The hairline serifs aren't hairline as
    we know it, but somehow they managed to carve quite thin lines in stone. 'mazing.\r\n\r\n<em>Perhaps
    some of that fancy Roman Numeral opentype coding that is oft rumored?</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    do it dude. Roman numerals are a bitch for maths, but they're fun to contemplate.
    A real blast from the past. I'm impressed by your grasp of ancient history Dan.\r\n\r\n<em>So
    here\u2019s a question, do you think if I fixed it up nice and pretty I could
    sell it? Or, is it just the kind of thing that I should just mark up to \u201Cpractice\u201D
    and give it away?</em>\r\n\r\nCheck with the creators / owners of the original
    typeface first. They're the best people to ask. Certainly you can chalk this one
    up to practice, but don't give it away for zero cash outlay without first ascertaining
    if the people who matter have any objections. Play it safe.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-02-11 13:32:20'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<em>I would think that without the permission of Meier you could not make
    it available commercially.</em>\r\n\r\nHe's still alive, so maybe you're right.
    Not in a legalistic way, but perhaps in a moral way. Couldn't hurt to give Otmar
    Hoefer over at Linotype a ring. He'd be able to find Mr. Meier for me."
  created: '2008-02-11 18:42:48'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>Check with the creators / owners of the original typeface first. They\u2019re
    the best people to ask.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, according to <a href=\"http://www.textism.com/writing/?id=6\">this
    image</a> Mr Barnes linked to, the typeface is a Roman Lapidary from the first
    century AD, so asking the creators may become the hardest part in producing this
    font ;)\r\n\r\nAnyway, typeface designs are not protected by copyright in most
    countries. And most surely not if they are just an accurate rendition of something
    conceived 2000 years ago.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nJens."
  created: '2008-02-11 19:32:19'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Ok, I've fixed the missing letters according to the link from Mr Barns (Thanks!)\r\n\r\nI've
    also added Greek capitals. That's hard stuff! Let me know what you think of the
    letterforms of the Greek. I have tweaking I need to do, and no spacing has been
    done yet.\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pic-1_4891.gif]"
  created: '2008-02-15 02:15:32'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: "Nice! I think offering alternates for some of the the letters would make
    this more widely useable - J, V, and B, maybe others.  \r\n\r\nFor the Greek:
    the pi looks a bit odd - the left stem seems unnecessarily angled.  The gamma,
    phi, xi, and theta all seem a but anemic to me.  The sigma seems top-heavy to
    me.  The psi seems fruity.  ;)\r\n\r\nI think in general the Roman letters look
    stronger than the Greek - the Greek might need to be thickened up to compensate
    for the less rectilinear letterforms.\r\n\r\n(Disclaimer - I am typographically
    ignorant!)"
  created: '2008-02-17 05:08:18'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "\"(Disclaimer - I am typographically ignorant!)\"\r\n\r\nBla. What kind of
    thing to say is that? You obviously have an eye for something, because you are
    on the mark for your critiques. The eye is the final arbiter of taste.\r\n\r\nI'll
    work on some of the things you've mentioned.\r\n\r\n(By the way, the links on
    your home page don't work. JFYI)"
  created: '2008-02-17 07:22:49'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: Ugh, my front-page SiFR links had stopped working, even though I hadn't changed
    anything - did a quick and very ugly short-term fix!  Thanks.  :)
  created: '2008-02-17 23:38:08'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "Tom Perkins \u2013 a letter carver based in England and whose fluency in
    drawn lettering is second to none \u2013 has written at length about the geometry
    of Roman Lettering in the book \"Font\" published by The Ditchling Museum and
    the Edward Johnston Foundation. It inludes his own drawings of the Trajan letters.
    His book \"The Art of Letter Carving in Stone' as well as being a sumptous record
    of lettercarving today again has detailed drawing of the Trajan letters. All the
    best with your project."
  created: '2008-05-31 22:28:34'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Thanks for the resources. I'll be sure to look them up :)
  created: '2008-06-09 06:08:39'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@Jens Kutilek: <em>Anyway, typeface designs are not protected by copyright
    in most countries. And most surely not if they are just an accurate rendition
    of something conceived 2000 years ago.</em>\r\n\r\nDude, it's a matter of ethical
    conduct and moral obligation to respect the design work of others, especially
    your contemporaries. Just because typeface designs are not protected by copyright
    in most countries does not make distributing a copy of an existing type design
    right. Dan has copied the work of contemporary designers who <strong>based</strong>
    their typeface on Roman letters from 200 years ago. The Joy Divison Closer type
    is <strong>not</strong> an accurate rendition of something conceived 2000 years
    ago.\r\n\r\nYou really, really piss me off man (Jens). Don't come here and tell
    falsehoods or misconstrue the letter of the law. I will drive you away. You need
    lessons in ethics. You need to wake up to yourself and your misanthropy.\r\n\r\nWhy
    is it so often Germans who harp on technicalities? Because they're a technically-minded
    people. That's not a racist comment or a personal attack. It's an accurate observation
    with no overtones or negative implication. All you get me on this one is the straight
    dope.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-06-11 19:32:27'
- author:
    name: silencioenlaciudad
  body: ','
  created: '2011-06-25 07:06:57'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "@James: Basically, the Closer lettering is lettering, not a typeface.\r\nThus,
    it would be nice to notify the lettering designer if DanGayle decides to commercialize
    his digital typeface, but in strict sense, here we have someone turning lettering
    into a digital typeface, which is quite different from copying a contemporary,
    pre-existing typeface.\r\n\r\nI agree on the obligations side, anyway. Even just
    by saying: hey, I'm doing this, based upon your work.."
  created: '2011-07-27 17:07:30'
- author:
    name: spyoung
  body: So what is the final verdict? Has a font been made?
  created: '2012-04-20 23:27:34'
date: '2008-02-03 07:26:54'
title: Joy Division Closer Font

---
