---
author:
  name: ishamid
  picture: 111213
body: "Hi all,\r\n\r\nNow there is no GPOS lookup called \"contextual mark positioning\",
  but that's an accurate description of the scenario I'm about to describe. Consider
  the following (using Latin as a model, though the context I'm using this is not
  Latin):\r\n\r\nConsider a unicode point UniChar decomposed into a base glyph Base1
  and a mark PrimaryMark1. So\r\n\r\nUniChar => Base1 + PrimaryMark1 \r\n\r\nFor example,
  the character atilda can be decomposed into an \"a\" and a \"tilda\".\r\n\r\nThe
  feature \"ccmp\" and a single lookup takes care of this, of course.\r\n\r\nNow I
  want to add a secondary mark SecondaryMark1 to the base, say, a macron. Note that
  I am adding SecondaryMark1 to the base glyph, NOT to PrimaryMark1. \r\n\r\nThe feature
  \"mark\" and a single lookup also takes care of this.\r\n\r\nI apply this to lots
  of base glyphs and it works fine, but...\r\n\r\nFor the particular case of Base1,
  when I apply SecondaryMark1 to Base1, I need to offset the anchor coordinates of
  PrimaryMark1 for more aesthetic positioning. I cannot use \"mkmk\" because the relation
  between PrimaryMark1 and SecondaryMark1 is not constant from base glyph to base
  glyph.\r\n\r\nSo I need a contextual positioning definition that says, if SecondaryMark1
  is applied to Base1, offset PrimaryMark1 by (x1,y1).\r\n\r\nLet's express this scenario
  in feature-file syntax:\r\n\r\n# GSUB\r\n \r\n# Base1.comp is the unicode point
  in the font\r\nlookup compose_primarymarks {\r\n    lookupflag IgnoreMarks;\r\n\tsub
  \ Base1.comp by Base1 PrimaryMark1;\r\n} compose_primarymarks;\t\r\n \r\nfeature
  ccmp {\r\n      lookup compose_primarymarks;\r\n} ccmp;\t\r\n \r\n# GPOS\r\n \r\nlookup
  primarymarks {\r\n\tmark PrimaryMark1  <anchor  -7  -43>;\r\n\tpos  Base1         <anchor
  250  -67> mark [PrimaryMark1 ];\r\n} primarymarks;\r\n \r\nlookup secondarymarks
  {\r\n\tmark SecondaryMark1 <anchor 0 -90>;\r\n\tpos  Base1 <anchor 367 -175> mark
  [SecondaryMark1 ];\r\n} secondarymarks;\r\n \r\nNow I need a rule such that, if
  Base1 is marked by a SecondaryMark1, then the anchor coordinates for Base1 in the
  primarymarks lookup must be offset by (x1,y1).\r\n \r\nOpentype does have a Contextual
  Chain Positioning lookup but it is very obscure and I'm not sure it is designed
  or capable of dealing with this kind of situation (which deals with different anchor
  classes). I've spent many hours on this but cannot find a solution.\r\n \r\nI could
  add alternate glyphs and use more GSUB lookups but that defeats the entire purpose
  and will lead to the glyph mess I wanted to avoid in the first place. The point
  is to be able to control, for a given character or character string, the interrelation
  of base glyph, primary mark, and secondary mark.\r\n\r\nPut another way: If the
  string\r\n\r\nBase1 PrimaryMark1 [SecondaryMark2 SecondaryMark3 SecondaryMark4 SecondaryMark5
  SecondaryMark6]\r\n\r\nis encountered, the primarymarks and secondarymarks lookups
  are invoked. But if\r\n\r\nBase1 PrimaryMark1 [SecondaryMark1]\r\n\r\nis encountered,
  then the anchor coordinates of Base1 in primarymarks are offset by (x1,y1).\r\n\r\nThere
  is a feature-file syntax for contextual chaining positioning, but this aspect of
  the syntax is a bit obscure for me:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/devnet/opentype/afdko/topic_feature_file_syntax.html#6.h\r\n\r\nNOTE:
  I am NOT worried at this point about whether or not Uniscribe or some other renderer
  supports this. I am only concerned about representing the above scenario in valid,
  opentype form. That is, How do I represent the above scenario in an OpenType font?\r\n\r\nI
  hope the above is clear. I cannot use mkmk, and I want to avoid a multiplication
  of glyph alternates.\r\n\r\nThank you in advance\r\n\r\nBest wishes\r\nIdris"
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I'm afraid I'm not familiar enough with AFDKO/FontLab syntax to advise on
    particular implementation, and in any case I understand that this syntax might
    be liable to change and that it does not currently work properly. I suspect you
    still need to do mark positioning using VOLT, not FontLab.\r\n\r\nAs I understand
    it, you are trying to produce a situation in which \r\n\r\nbase + primary mark
    + secondary mark\r\n\r\nresults in the primary mark being positioned independently
    of the secondary mark, i.e. with an independent anchor on the base, but capable
    of being contextually shifted in presence of the secondary mark.\r\n\r\nI think
    this is not too difficult, since the secondary glyph can perform as a context
    for the primary glyph. This sort of thing happens a lot in Biblical Hebrew, which
    doesn't use any mkmk, only contextual mark lookups. [The more difficult situation
    is if the first mark needs to act as context for the second mark. Actually, I'm
    not sure at all how one would handle that.]\r\n\r\nIn VOLT, you would simply add
    a secondary lookup to your mark feature in which \r\n\r\n| secondarymarks\r\n\r\nprovided
    the context for a using a different anchor for primary marks on the base. So you
    might have an initial, non-contextual lookup in which primary marks are positioned
    on the base using an anchor called e.g. 'primark1' and a second lookup, with the
    secondarymarks context, in which the primary marks are positiong on the base using
    an anchor called e.g. 'primark2' or some similar mnemonic name.\r\n\r\nDoes that
    make sense?"
  created: '2008-02-04 03:25:25'
- author:
    name: ishamid
    picture: 111213
  body: "Hi John,\r\n\r\nThanks for the reply. I am actually using FontForge, not
    FontLab, for opentype programming, since, as we all know, adfdk is not quite there
    yet.***** I am actually amazed at the depth of FF's opentype support, even for
    mark classes (which the fea syntax does not support at all, let alone implement).\r\n\r\n\"As
    I understand it, you are trying to produce a situation in which \r\n\r\nbase +
    primary mark + secondary mark\r\n\r\nresults in the primary mark being positioned
    independently of the secondary mark, i.e. with an independent anchor on the base,
    but capable of being contextually shifted in presence of the secondary mark.\"\r\n\r\nThat's
    exactly it!\r\n\r\n\"[The more difficult situation is if the first mark needs
    to act as context for the second mark. Actually, I\u2019m not sure at all how
    one would handle that.]\"\r\n\r\nI think that's largely avoidable. If it did come
    up, we could probably express it as the reverse (relativity).\r\n\r\n\"So you
    might have an initial, non-contextual lookup in which primary marks are positioned
    on the base using an anchor called e.g. \u2019primark1\u2019 and a second lookup,
    with the secondarymarks context, in which the primary marks are positiong on the
    base using an anchor called e.g. \u2019primark2\u2019 or some similar mnemonic
    name.\r\n\r\nDoes that make sense?\"\r\n\r\nYes, I believe so. Is this contextual
    chaining positioning (GPOS lookup 8)?\r\n\r\nIn any case, I may need your help
    to walk me through this, at least the first time around. Does arabtype use this
    scenario at all?\r\n\r\nI'll play with this some more and report back. If there
    is any font you can point me to that implements this, I'd like to know. Also,
    a friend/colleague mentioned that vietnamese (which distinguishes vowel letters
    and tone marks) could be a candidate for this kind of treatment.\r\n\r\nBest wishes\r\nIdris\r\n\r\n*****
    I was very excited by the fea syntax but it is sad that Adobe is taking forever
    to a) complete and standardize the syntax; b) cover all of opentype (eg no mark
    classes); c) implement it!"
  created: '2008-02-04 04:10:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I have uploaded a very small demo font <a href=\"http://www.tiro.com/John/VOLTmarktest.ttf\">HERE</a>.
    This font has VOLT source tables included, so you can open it in VOLT and see
    how the lookups are built.\r\n\r\nHere is the output from the lookups, in the
    VOLT proofing tool:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/output_4672.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    mark.basic lookup provides individual anchors for the mark1 and mark2 glyphs.
    The mark.contextual lookup provides a new anchor for the mark1 glyph when it is
    followed by the mark2 glyph."
  created: '2008-02-04 04:37:38'
- author:
    name: Read Roberts
  body: "John Hudson's suggestion is very clever. I  have yet to come up with anything
    that works as well.\r\n\r\nI don't understand why it is a more difficult case
    when the first mark would act as context for the second. I think you could cover
    this case with a second contextual positioning rule with the context reversed,
    and referencing the same MarkToBase rule. \r\n\r\nThe one problem is that this
    approach may be cumbersome when there starts to be significantly more than two
    mark attachment points on the base glyph. Since (I think) there is no restriction
    on the sequence in which mark glyphs of different classes appear in the text string,
    than means that you must provide enough contextual rules to cover all the possible
    glyph sequences that you need to match.  For example, if the base glyph could
    have four different marks attached at once, then the  primary and secondary marks
    in a text sequence need to match a rule when they are separated by anything from
    \ none to two mark glyphs of the other classes, and you would need six contextual
    rules to cover all the cases in order to treat any single pair of mark classes
    as a special case for the MarkToBase rule.. In AFDKO syntax, these six context
    matching rules would look like:\r\n**********************************\r\npos mark1'
    mark2\r\npos mark1' [mark3 mark4]  mark2\r\npos mark1'  [mark3 mark4]  [mark3
    mark4]  mark2\r\npos mark2  mark1'\r\npos mark2 [mark3 mark4]  mark1'\r\npos mark2
    \ [mark3 mark4]  [mark3 mark4]  mark1'\r\n# do special case MarkToBase rule when
    any of the contexts above match.\r\n# The special case sets a different base attachment
    point for\r\n# glyph mark1, whenever glyph \"mark2' is also attached to the base
    glyph.\r\n**********************************\r\n\r\n\r\nHowever, I can't think
    of a more concise way to get the desired result.\r\n\r\nFYI, there is supposed
    to be a new version of the ADKO package coming out in a few months, which will
    add support for mark and attachment lookups. (See \" http://www.adobeforums.com/webx/.3c05d2bd/0\"
    for a preview of feature file syntax changes). \r\n\r\n\r\nI'd also like to check
    that I understand in detail how the example font provided by John Hudson works.
    Please correct me if I am wrong about the following.\r\n\r\nWhen I look at the
    font with the AFDKO program 'spot' , what I see is that the feature \"mark\" contains
    two lookups, which will be applied in order.\r\n\r\nThe first lookup is a MarkToBase
    type. There is only one rule in the lookup, and the rule positions both the first
    and second mark glyphs at the same attachment position on the base glyph, at (x
    = 400, y = -400)\r\n\r\nThe second is a chaining contextual position lookup. There
    is only one rule in the lookup, and it  will be applied when the glyph sequence
    is \"mark glyph 1\", \"mark glyph 2\", and the current text position is at the
    \"mark glyph 1\". The actual positioning rule which gets applied at this position
    is a MarkToBase rule. This MarkToBase  rule specifies a single attachment point
    on the base glyph at (x=140, y = -400) for the \"mark glyph 1\".\r\n\r\nThe way
    this works, as the layout program steps through the text string [base glyph, mark
    glyph 1, mark glyph 2], is as follows:\r\n\r\n1) text position is at the base
    glyph, the first glyph in the text string \"[base glyph, mark glyph 1, mark glyph
    2], \".\r\nLookup 0 is processed, but the one rule does not match the current
    context, as the current glyph is not a mark glyph preceded by a base glyph.\r\nLookup
    1 is processed, but the one rule does not match the current context. The current
    glyph is not \"mark glyph 1' followed by 'mark glyph 2'.\r\n\r\n2) text position
    is at \"mark glyph 1\"\r\nLookup 0 is processed. The MarkToBase rule  matches
    \ (because \"mark glyph 1\" is a mark glyph and is preceded by the base glyph),
    and so \"mark glyph 1\" is moved  to the base glyph attachment point at (x = 400,
    y = -400) relative to the base glyph origin.\r\n\r\nLookup 1 is processed. The
    context is satisfied for the one rule in this lookup  (\"mark glyph 1\" is followed
    by \"mark glyph 2\") - and so the associated MarkToBase rule is processed. It
    also matches - the \"mark 1 glyph\" is preceded by the base glyph - and is applied.
    It says to attach the the \"mark glyph 1\" to the base glyph at (x=140, y = -400).
    This overrides the result of processing lookup 0.\r\n\r\n3) text position is at
    \"mark glyph 2\".\r\nLookup 0 is processed. The markToBase rule  matches  ( \"mark
    glyph 2\" is a mark glyph, and is preceded by the base glyph, and the only intervening
    glyph is another mark glyph), and so \"mark glyph 2\" is moved  to the base glyph
    attachment point at (x = 400, y = -400) relative to the base glyph origin.\r\n\r\nLookup
    1 is processed, but the one rule does not match the current context. The current
    glyph is not \"mark glyph 1\".\r\n\r\n\r\nFor this to work, the lookup flag for
    lookup 0 must be set so that the rule processing will ignore all mark glyphs in
    the text sequence between the current glyph and the base glyph.\r\n\r\nThe one
    thing that I do not understand here is why the MarkToBase rule in Lookup 0 defines
    \"mark glyph 1\" and \"mark glyph 2' to be two separate mark classes, which happen
    to attach at the same location on the base glyph. It would take slightly less
    space, and would be conceptually simpler, to define a single mark class which
    contains both of them. I understand that the glyph lists of mark classes cannot
    overlap within a MarkToBase subtable, nor within the mark class definitions that
    are referenced by any lookup flag field,  but the mark classes defined in one
    subtable are completely independent of mark classes defined in other subtables,
    which in turn are independent of the set of mark class definitions referenced
    by any lookup flag.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-05 00:08:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Read: <em>I don\u2019t understand why it is a more difficult case when the
    first mark would act as context for the second. I think you could cover this case
    with a second contextual positioning rule with the context reversed, and referencing
    the same MarkToBase rule.</em>\r\n\r\nI'll have to experiment, but in a MarkToBase
    lookup, wouldn't a context string\r\n\r\nmark1 |\r\n\r\n(mark1 preceding context)
    imply mark1 preceding the base glyph, i.e.\r\n\r\nmark1 BASE mark2\r\n\r\nnot\r\n\r\nBASE
    mark1 mark2\r\n\r\n?\r\n\r\nActually, I'm not sure such a context would have have
    effect at all, because if one is defining preceding context for a MarkToBase one
    seems to need the base glyph to be part of the context, e.g.\r\n\r\nmark1 BASE
    |\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-05 01:24:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Read, re. your last query, this was a hastily made demo, and I hadn't considered
    that the two marks would have the same offset. I'd originally intended that they
    would have different offsets. As you say, if they are the same, they could share
    an anchor in this lookup.\r\n\r\nRe. anticipating arbitrary mark order. This is
    a significant issue. I don't think it makes sense for font lookups to try to anticipate
    every possible, equivalent mark order. It makes more sense, in the OpenType philosophy,
    for the shaping engine to apply some form or mark order normalisation during display.\r\n\r\nWe
    ran into this issue when developing the SBL Hebrew font. In that case, we found
    that some of the technicaly possible mark orders were actually impossible to display
    correctly because of complex contextual mark interaction in Biblical Hebrew that
    relied on specific order being followed. The issue was further complicated by
    the fact that there are similar mistaken assumptions in the canonical combining
    class assignments for Hebrew mark characters, such that Unicode normalisation
    can also result in glyph strings that are difficult or impossible to display correctly
    with OpenType (and also collapsing of textually distinct character order, which
    is a bigger problem). The solution, worked out with Microsoft, SIL, Logos and
    other participants, was to add buffered character re-ordering to the Uniscribe
    Hebrew shaping engine as part of the display. In other words, Uniscribe takes
    a variety of possible input orders and performs a display-targeted normalisation
    that produces predictable ordering for font lookups to process. The Hebrew case
    is complicated by errors in Unicode; for other scripts the Unicode canonical combining
    classes might provide appropriate normalisation. Of course, this won't solve all
    possible ordering issues, because marks within the same canonical class will not
    be reordered and will interact typographically, so these need to be anticipated
    in font lookups or users need to be encouraged to adopt consistent mark ordering
    practices."
  created: '2008-02-05 01:25:59'
- author:
    name: ishamid
    picture: 111213
  body: "Hi Read,\r\n\r\nI want to spend some time with your comment and analysis
    and perhaps say more. In the meantime, here is John's method in fea syntax:\r\n\r\n================================================\r\nlookup
    markMarkPositioninginLatinlooku {\r\n  lookupflag 0;\r\n    mark \\mark1 <anchor
    0 0>;\r\n    pos \\BASE <anchor 400 -400> mark [\\mark1 ];\r\n    mark \\mark2
    <anchor 0 0>;\r\n    pos \\BASE <anchor 400 -400> mark [\\mark2 ];\r\n} markMarkPositioninginLatinlooku;\r\n\r\nlookup
    Marktobaseattachmentlookup2 {\r\n  lookupflag 0;\r\n    mark \\mark1 <anchor 0
    0>;\r\n    pos \\BASE <anchor 140 -400> mark [\\mark1 ];\r\n} Marktobaseattachmentlookup2;\r\n\r\nlookup
    pos_chain_marklatn_0 {\r\n  lookupflag 0;\r\n    sub [\\mark1 ]'<lookup Marktobaseattachmentlookup2>
    \ [\\mark2 ] ;\r\n} pos_chain_marklatn_0;\r\n\r\nfeature \\mark {\r\n\r\n  script
    latn;\r\n     language dflt ;\r\n      lookup markMarkPositioninginLatinlooku;\r\n
    \     lookup pos_chain_marklatn_0;\r\n} \\mark;\r\n================================================\r\n\r\nI
    find the use of the <'> to be rather alienating. Most of the feature-file syntax
    is rather easy to read and write except this part. It's very error-prone.\r\n\r\nMy
    own idea was to do a huge part of the opentype programming in fea syntax, then
    compile it in FontForge or, eventually, Fontlab. For some tasks (like choosing
    ancho-coordinates) a gui is much more useful, but for other tasks the fea file
    helps me see the overall structure clearly (and to do certain kinds of repetitive
    editing tasks). But the syntax for contextual chaining is a bit obscure, and the
    examples in the spec are rather unclear. \r\n\r\nCould you, by way of example,
    explain the pos_chain_marklatn_0 lookup in english so I can understand better
    exactly what's going on? Is there another way to write this? Could there be a
    better way to syntactically express this?\r\n\r\nCould we replace (or have the
    option of replacing) the <'> by something more verbose? perhaps even a begin-end
    syntax?\r\n\r\nIn any case I do look forward to the next iteration of the fea-file
    syntax language.\r\n\r\nBest wishes\r\nIdris"
  created: '2008-02-08 05:51:35'
date: '2008-02-03 17:55:30'
node_type: forum
title: Implementing contextual mark positioning

---
