---
author:
  name: ebensorkin
  picture: 109987
body: "I am looking for examples of typefaces that that use the curve & cut interior
  shapes shown here. Urbana is one.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aso_5288.gif]\r\n\r\nThis
  sample is from Malaga by Xavier Dupr\xE9\r\n\r\nIt looks a little like a calligraphic
  interior married to a typographic exterior to me. What do you think?"
comments:
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"What do you think?\"\r\nI do't think in interior and exterior. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-02-04 17:29:10'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "The c of Yale that I posted in the [[http://dev.typophile.com/node/41301|Why
    Bembo sucks]] thread has a bit of that effect, though there you might consider
    the counter notch to be simply the beginning of a serif.\r\n\r\nTo my eyes (when
    blown up big, anyway), I start to see a three-dimensional fold from that combination
    of cut and curve. Almost like a subtler version of [[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/urw/calypso/|Calypso]]!
    Can't you imagine, for example, the inside curve on the right side of the o you
    posted coming down past the notch at the bottom of the counter and sweeping tangentially
    into the outside curve of the left side of the letter?"
  created: '2008-02-04 17:30:47'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Whoops. I think you stumbled on your 'F' key there, Eben. Urbana is not a
    FontFont.
  created: '2008-02-04 17:59:00'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "[Here\u2019s <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/cepuertas/urbana/\">a
    link to C\xE9sar Puertas\u2019 Urbana</a> \u2013\_for those who are also interested.]"
  created: '2008-02-04 18:35:31'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I think it is [[William Addison Dwiggins|Dwiggins's]] [[M-Formula|Marionette
    Theory]] through and through. You've read that, right Eben?
  created: '2008-02-04 18:41:00'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Eben --\r\n\r\nI'm not certain that I understand exactly what you're looking
    for. But to the extent that I think I do . . .\r\n\r\nXavier Dupr\xE9 plays with
    this sort of construction a lot, so in addition to your Malaga example, you should
    be sure and look at Absara.\r\n\r\nJohn Downer has also done some work in this
    vein. Look at Paperback and Vendetta. Oh, and Sam Sans.\r\n\r\nJeremy Tankard
    has some of this sort of thing going on in Enigma and Shaker (especially in the
    italics).\r\n\r\nMatthew Carter has used some of this kind of construction, but
    only very subtly. In addition to the little bit from Yale mentioned above, you
    can see some of this in Alisal, Charter, and Fenway (again, especially in the
    italics).\r\n\r\nI've been known to play a bit with this sort of thing myself.
    The arch of Whitman is well-known. I continue to explore it in some of my designs
    in development. However, I don't usually take this approach to round counters,
    focusing instead on arches. (But you're probably only interested in finished,
    published examples.)\r\n\r\nIs this the sort of thing you're looking for?\r\n\r\nI
    can generate images later, if you don't have access to some of these. But I don't
    have time right now.\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2008-02-04 20:12:18'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Stewf, hey yeah! Sorry about the FF all! I don't think I can fix it without
    reordering/confusing the sense of the thread though.\r\n\r\nTiff, yes. Solid stuff
    that. And I agree. And actually, that's a reference that C\xE9sar Puertas\u2019
    has acknowledged to me as well.\r\n\r\nDavid, How would you suggest putting it
    instead? Would it be better if I said bowls?\r\n\r\nCraig, Actually the Yale italic
    has more still! Nice. In addition to the c it has an a the upright has an a sor
    sure and almost an s defending on where you draw the line. Nice! \r\n\r\nI agree
    with what you are saying about the quasi 3d thing. I think it is partly a pen
    related effect although in urbana it starts to feel also like tape or ribbon or
    something thicker like taffy. I say pen because partly because if you look at
    Sheila Water's calligraphy ( and lots of other folks too ) you can see the same
    structure and in a more pronounced way than is typical of a font. This is true
    from her humanist miniscule to her blackletter. So I think it's a kind of chirographic
    echo. Not that these fonts are (or are not) \"chirographic\" ( separate issue)
    but I certainly I think they are they are drawing on that history/structure to
    some extent."
  created: '2008-02-04 20:33:11'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'And yet the differing treatment of inside and outside brings to mind the
    manufacture of punches, too (with a counter-punched counter and a carved outside). '
  created: '2008-02-04 21:33:08'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Agreed. Or at least a typographic mindset.
  created: '2008-02-04 21:53:44'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Fred Smeijers\u2019 FF Quadraat is the mother of all cut and carved typefaces\u2026\r\n\r\nRead
    his book Counterpunch and all will be revealed ; )\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen
    BNO"
  created: '2008-02-04 23:20:22'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "There has been an excellent sample of this style on the crit boards, called
    [[http://dev.typophile.com/kompilat|Kompilat]]. And  [[http://www.textaxis.com/img/posters/suse_pos.gif|Suite
    Serif]] from Textaxis also has it. So does [[http://www.derfaber.ch/ganzeseiten/Projekte/Schrift/gschrift1.html|Nomad]]
    from Derfaber (direct [[http://www.derfaber.ch/BILDER/PROJEKTE/NEU/Nomad.pdf|link
    to pdf]]). And one of my favorites is probably [[http://www.jarnolukkarila.com/template.php?yksikko=format_design&sivu=font_library&alasivu=xtra_sans&lang=en&catID=1|Xtra
    \ Sans]] by Jarno Lukkarila, which I think is very well executed.\r\n\r\nI found
    these a while ago when I did a bit of research for my own experiment with the
    kinks. I don't think it's appropriate to plug the url here, but it's on the sans
    serif crit boards. But I definitely have a weakness for this style. I haven't
    really found any others than the ones I mention above."
  created: '2008-02-05 00:03:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Actually, if you post the link I would appreciate it.
  created: '2008-02-05 00:03:48'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: I don't think it's safe to edit my previous post without screwing up the timeline,
    so [[http://typophile.com/node/37075|here is the link]] to my thread. It's still
    in the works.
  created: '2008-02-05 00:18:06'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "There's a touch of it in <a href=http://fontbureau.com/pdf/Prensa.pdf>Prensa</a>
    and a bit more in <a href=http://fontbureau.com/pdf/Quiosco.pdf>Quiosco</a>. The
    upper stem of the \"a\" and \"c\" are quite obvious, but there's a slight change
    in direction in some of the Prensa bowls and a stronger but rounded cut in Quiosco's.
    Font Bureau's site talks about this explicitly as the Dwiggins' influence: <em>Spanish
    for press, Prensa is a new series from Cyrus Highsmith, who arrived at this family\u2019s
    character through his process of \u2018wrapping outside curves around the inside,
    deliberately creating tension between the two,\u2019 a technique epitomized in
    Electra, a 1935 bookface by twentieth-century master W.A. Dwiggins. This tension
    really appears in the italics, which stray from the traditional forms to balance
    simplicity with vitality.</em>"
  created: '2008-02-05 01:30:49'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: Continuing with the Font Bureau vibe, <a href=http://fontbureau.com/pdf/Meno.pdf>Meno</a>
    has some subtle cuts as well. Interestingly, in some letters ("e," "n," "r," "s")
    it seems like the outside is cut more sharply and the inside smoother.
  created: '2008-02-05 01:48:05'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Great stuff. Thanks very much. I will reply in more detail later on.
  created: '2008-02-05 05:58:49'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I just noticed tonight, the logo for Hoegaarden white beer does it too. \r\n\r\nhttp://thumbnail.image.rakuten.co.jp/@0_mall/kawachi/cabinet/products2/hoegaarden330ml.jpg\r\n\r\nAnd
    speaking of Flanders, G Noordzij's Calligraphy has this feature in abundance.\r\n\r\nJelmar,
    You blew me away. That was an awesome list. And your font is super sweet as well.\r\n\r\nReed,
    Meno is interesting in that the roman is the way you say & the italic has a bit
    of the reverse emphasis.\r\n\r\nQuiosco is fascinating because it is 100% bizarre
    when you get nice and close but all that goes away and quietly contributes to
    as they rightly say - the vitality of the font, from farther away.\r\n\r\nAgain,
    thanks!"
  created: '2008-02-05 10:05:18'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "No problem. I think there might be more, especially from people who have
    been educated in typedesign via the methods of Noordzij (as you already mentioned).
    I had a little booklet  in which I think there might be another example, but I
    can't find it right now. I will post the names if there are typefaces in there
    which have the kinks, if I can find it.\r\n\r\nAnd I forgot to add [[http://typophile.com/node/40587|Weka]]
    from the serif crit board. But I think you've probably seen it."
  created: '2008-02-05 14:02:41'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I had seen it. But I hadn't formally associated it with this feature. So thanks
    very much! I think Paul was right about it actually. It does feel a bit bit Kris
    S like. It's interesting that this seems to be an especially popular feature Scala
    forward. I will get into my Linotype book to see what non WAD fonts might be using
    it prior to Scala/Noordzij.
  created: '2008-02-05 19:51:06'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "To the ones you already mentioned, I would add Patrizia by Aldo Novarese.\r\nI
    don't know when it was designed but I saw a sample of it in his book \"Alfa-Beta\",
    so it's probably prior to the 1970s.\r\nAnd if I am not wrong, Calcite Pro by
    Akira Kobayashi carries this idea to the extreme."
  created: '2008-02-05 20:08:58'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Stephen Coles brought up Calcite too. It's interesting but it does only one
    half of this thing so I am on the fence about it. Thanks for the others! I will
    look at them soon.
  created: '2008-02-05 20:21:42'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: As I said, the idea is carried to an extreme, and it does not apply, although
    the idea of Calcite starts from such an initial concept.
  created: '2008-02-05 20:37:34'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "This topic came up in a critique a few weeks ago, and I said some daft stuff
    about Ad Lib. \r\n[[http://www.typophile.com/node/40587]] Good times."
  created: '2008-02-06 14:16:57'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Here are follow-up images to some of the faces mentioned in my earlier post.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Paperback-gna_5134.gif]\r\n^
    Paperback 12 (John Downer)\r\n\r\n \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SamSans-aste_5178.gif]\r\n^
    Sam Sams (John Downer)\r\n\r\n \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/EnigmaIta-ted_6558.gif]\r\n^
    Enigma Italic (Jeremy Tankard)\r\n\r\n \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ShakerIta-belo_5541.gif]\r\n^
    Shaker Italic (Jeremy Tankard) -- obviously related to Enigma.\r\n\r\n \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FenwayIta-db_3710.gif]\r\n^
    Fenway Italic (Matthew Carter)\r\n\r\n \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fenway-at_5728.gif]\r\n^
    Fenway Roman -- it's subtle, but those are corner points at the inside stem-curve
    transitions.\r\n\r\n \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Courante-augh_5328.gif]\r\n^
    A version of something that I've been playing with on and off for the past few
    years.\r\n\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2008-02-06 15:45:24'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Also, I know you said non-WAD, but I thought you might enjoy seeing these
    unpublished pieces:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/WAD_BPL-0495_5621.jpg]\r\n^
    Dwiggins \"thin paper\" drawing for Experimental No. 223. (Jan 1939)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/WAD_BPL-0466_4193.jpg]\r\n^
    Dwiggins pen sketches for an unexplored newspaper heading design. (ca. 1946)\r\n.\r\n\r\nWas
    this guy ahead of his time or what? I doubt you'll find anything else quite like
    this pre-digital.\r\n\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-06 15:55:46'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I firmly believe it's not a question of digital or non-digital.\r\nIn Dwiggins
    you see dedicated work bearing its fruits, and it's always a rewarding and encouraging
    thing. It's great."
  created: '2008-02-06 19:23:50'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "Luciano Perondi\u2019s <a href=\"http://www.molotro.com/pdf/Zo08092004.pdf\">Zotico</a>
    and <a href=\"http://www.molotro.com/pdf/Ni15042004.pdf\">Minotype</a> are all
    about this kind of tension between curves and broken lines. Marco Comastri\u2019s
    in-progress Laulitere is, too, to some extent (sorry, no online specimen yet).
    I seem to recall Perondi and Andrea Braccaloni making use of this technique as
    well in their recent typeface for the Italian newspaper <cite>Il Corriere della
    Sera</cite>, <a href=\"http://www.leftloft.com/portfolio/lavori/solferino/solferino.asp\">Solferino</a>.\r\n\r\nKent:
    the typeface you\u2019re working on looks wonderful, and that Dwiggins sample
    is golden! BTW: the ball terminal in your a reminds me of OurType\u2019s recent
    Amalia face."
  created: '2008-02-06 20:00:26'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: You, damned Italian! :=)
  created: '2008-02-06 20:07:31'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "Eben, I hear this phenomenon is all the rage more and more lately. Here's
    a bit of my version of it:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/samplePDH020608_5445.gif]"
  created: '2008-02-06 20:41:40'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Some faces by Aldo Novarese following the same line:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Basilar_5793.gif]\r\n>
    Basilar (Haas)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ornatus_6249.gif]\r\n>
    Ornatus (Haas)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Patrizia_3657.gif]\r\n>
    and the aforementioned Patrizia, also shown in Alfa Beta.\r\n\r\n\r\nI had a curious
    digital version by The Font Company, which could explain, since I read their collection
    includes faces \"licenced from the collections of Alphabet Innovations and TypeSpectra\".\r\nBut
    after some research (and with some surprise) I found [[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/urw/continental/|this]],
    which is an URW version.\r\nBesides not listing Novarese as the designer, the
    MyFonts keywords are \"1990s, american, sansserif\", which is pretty funny, considered
    the face is prior to the 1970s, and by Novarese."
  created: '2008-02-06 20:52:40'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Antonio & Claudio, I am looking forward to checking those links out.\r\n\r\nKent,
    Thank you very much! I had been thinking that folks have seen the WAD stuff already
    but a) maybe not & b) you seems to have some mighty fine stuff! \r\n\r\nYour design
    does remind me of Amalia because it has many features in common. But I think your
    design is geared to extended text and so is robust whereas Amalia is more delicate
    and is suited to magazine story use and headlines subheads etc. When I wrote it
    up for best faces of 2006 in Typographica; \r\n\r\nhttp://typographica.org/001103.php\r\n\r\n...
    I started to get the idea that the eclectic feature set was really novel. When
    you look at it really close up the sheer cheek of it is hard not to notice. But
    I realized after a while that it was an extension of previous work. Fleishmann's
    work. What was novel about Amalia instead ( I think )is the tone it generates
    using that feature set, and the deep harmony it has.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-06 21:02:37'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: And now there are more images! This is great!
  created: '2008-02-06 21:04:31'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>I hear this phenomenon is all the rage more and more lately.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    had no idea it was, until I started doing some research on it when I started my
    own typeface about 5 or 6 months ago. But it seems it is a trend at the moment
    indeed! Of course it has been around for ages, but it's interesting such a feature
    is starting to appear more frequently.\r\n\r\nGood that you started this thread,
    Eben. I wonder why I didn't start one when I was searching around. Especially
    because all of the images and names of typefaces that people have posted so far.
    Good stuff!"
  created: '2008-02-06 21:48:54'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Eben -- \r\n\r\nYes, I remember taking notice of Amalia when I first saw
    it. Was that just last year?\r\n\r\nThat design of mine goes back to 2004 and
    grew out of a comment Cyrus made about some sketches I was working on (for a different
    concept). In my case, the sheared ball terminal derives from things I was already
    exploring in Whitman Italic. Which in turn I think I borrowed from Matthew's Charter.
    \r\n\r\nThe above characters are from a small text version, conceived as a potential
    newspaper text face -- hence the sturdiness. \r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-06 21:49:45'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: 'Kent, your "untitled" face looks amazingly strong. I think there are few
    typefaces with these qualities, it surely deserves to be finished: please do it!'
  created: '2008-02-07 18:52:28'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I like the sturdiness like Claudio. Would you tell us about the g? Is the
    ear shape mostly about ink or is something else going on there as well? Was charter
    the first sheared ball?\r\n\r\nPaul, tasty stuff!"
  created: '2008-02-08 01:03:51'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "><cite> I hear this phenomenon is all the rage more and more lately.</cite>\r\n\r\nOh,
    I didn't know that! And I started a new typeface in naive believe that it's going
    to be a little bit more unique:D\r\n\r\nThere are some letters where this previously
    unknown influence is clearly seen, maybe even too clear:)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sample_5266.png]"
  created: '2008-02-08 11:14:43'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Kent, this looks indeed very promising. Please go on... And let us know.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-02-08 11:56:25'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Gosh, thanks for the votes of confidence, all. This project hasn't been active
    since last summer. (And the previous hiatus was three years.) I wasn't necessarily
    thinking of picking it up again. But you never know.\r\n\r\nEben -- I'm not sure
    what you want to know about the g; I don't quite follow your question about ink.
    This design has some much of its structural roots drawn from an unreleased Dwiggins
    face (why are you not surprised? ;-) which in turn was inspired by a small Rosart
    sample that WAD saw in Updike. So, that ear shape traces back to some Dutch oldstyle
    traits -- Fleischmann and Rosart -- reinterpreted through my personal stylistic
    filters.\r\n\r\nI don't know if Charter was the first example of \"sheared ball\"
    (or \"half teardrop\" or whatever you want to call it) terminals. I've pretty
    much absorbed and internalized this style device, so I no longer think of it as
    emulating anything else. But if I look back for possible influences, this is the
    earliest example that comes to mind.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-08 14:00:36'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "An excellent thing about Carter is that he incessantly assimilates.\r\nWhen
    he will be 90 he will draw better typefaces than middle-age designers\u2026\r\n\r\nKent,
    I am pretty ignorant about Dwiggins, but I always admired a lot his work.\r\nWhere
    could you get the most comprehensive presentation of his developments and conception?\r\n\r\nAnd\u2026
    yes, I don't know what you are working on right now, but you should definitely
    work on that face. Keep it sober."
  created: '2008-02-08 18:50:06'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Eben --\r\n\r\nNow that we've tossed around various, wide-ranging examples
    of what you might have been looking for, can I ask: What are you really interested
    in? I'm curious: What's your angle on this? Have you found what you're looking
    for?\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-08 19:01:39'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: My angle is -  I am doing a write up on a font for Typographica and The font
    I am describing uses this feature. Before I had taken a decent stab at sample
    books or anything I started the thread so that I might finish writing the article
    in time. In the font the feature seemed spookily familiar! But this font's use
    of it seemed exemplary. Still, before I could say so I wanted to get a better
    sense of it's history, derivation and impact on the faces it is used in. And to
    see if, having seen plenty of other faces I still felt it was as exemplary as
    I originally thought it was. And I do. So I definitely did get what i wanted -
    and more really. It's a wonderful micro typographic feature.
  created: '2008-02-08 20:24:11'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Eben,\r\n\r\nI think it's worth considering (maybe for a longer essay than
    a typophile review) that there are some very different origins here, that are
    easy to confuse or conflate: The pen artifact in counters which comes about from
    tight or small letters written with wide pens, and the M-theory of Dwiggins, which,
    you can see by inspecting his drawings, does not really follow calligraphic logic
    at all. For example, he carved out space near the ear of a g where no pen would
    ever leave a notch. His interest was in creating exceptionally clear type at small
    sizes; avoiding clots and making something small read correctly at its native
    size. The impulse to include calligraphic artifacts can seem similar, but if you
    keep looking, I'm sure you'll find examples of calligraphic artifacts like these
    that actually obscure or mar clarity in small sizes; in other words the 2 origins
    may not be linked at all. Look at the bolder weights of Trajanus. There's a consistent
    calligraphic logic here, but not necessarily a high priority on clarity at small
    sizes. One approach might actually work against the other.\r\n\r\nThe funny thing
    about this trend is that printing conditions are so good, the M-theory has much
    less usefulness than in hot metal days. Remember, Dwiggins designed for the foundry
    with the most business in book typesetting. Type wasn't scalable, and display
    type didn't use these tricks; they were meant to be hidden. Much of the typography
    now that features these adorable quirks is explicit display layouts, in magazines,
    meant to show off the cuts and angles. "
  created: '2008-02-08 20:53:01'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks as always Carl! Those are great points. Especially your point about
    calligraphic artifacts having the potential to \"obscure or mar clarity in small
    sizes\".\r\n\r\nIt will be interesting to revisit my text and the font one last
    time with all those ideas in mind. If you are willing, I would love to hear your
    critique of my critique when it comes out! "
  created: '2008-02-08 23:46:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eben,\r\nWhile we are showing works in progress, here are a few Froggy glyphs
    which seem to fall into the mix.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/frofHard_3787.png]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-09 02:02:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Thanks Chris! You are certainly not following a pen derived notion of where
    to put those cuts. Not recalling perfectly; still, my sense is that this is a
    departure from the previous froggy. Is that right?
  created: '2008-02-09 02:09:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Actually. no. Those cuts were in my original drawings from day one. As I
    recall, there were even a few comments about it on the original posting in the
    critique area. I will check it out later.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-09 03:37:48'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "What is the M-theory of Dwiggins?\r\nAnyway, I don't think that devices to
    improve letters for small sizes are less useful now, nor that it will be less
    useful in the future."
  created: '2008-02-09 10:27:00'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "Claudio, see <a href=\"http://www.typeculture.com/academic_resource/articles_essays/pdfs/tc_article_37.pdf\">Tiffany\u2019s
    paper</a> on WAD, which also talks about the M formula (where M is for marionette)."
  created: '2008-02-09 12:10:52'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Claudio -- You asked about where to read more on Dwiggins. Tiffany Wardle's
    dissertation (which Antonio linked above) is a good primer on a few of his designs.
    Gerard Unger wrote an article about Dwiggins's Experimental No. 223 newspaper
    design in <cite>Quarendo</cite> xi, 4 (1981), which also discusses the M-formula
    at some length. It's been a while since I read both of these, but I seem to recall
    that there are some background elements to the M-formula that aren't drawn out.
    \r\n\r\nBut, of course, there's much more to Dwiggins than just the M-formula.
    A good overview of his other type designs can be found in Walter Tracy's <cite>Letters
    of Credit</cite>. \r\n\r\nPaul Shaw recently wrote an article for the Italian
    bibliophile journal <cite>Bibliologia</cite> about one of Dwiggins's book designs.\r\n\r\n--
    K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-09 13:57:21'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Eben -- Well, since the deadline for those reviews was yesterday, I presume
    you found what you were looking for. \r\n\r\nCarl draws out a point that I was
    thinking about (and which was sort of underlying my query as to your interests).
    When it comes to features like we've been discussing here, there are a variety
    of motives and precedents. It put me in mind of some things I said in a Typophile
    thread from many years ago. So, for what it's worth, I'll direct your attention
    to \r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/5303\r\n\r\nNot surprisingly, that thread
    is wide-ranging and it takes a little work to follow the sub thread that pertains
    to our current topic. So, I'm taking the liberty of quoting some of my own [extensive]
    comments here. I hope you all will bear with me.\r\n\r\n----------\r\n\r\n23 June
    2004\r\n\r\nI think that what A. Scott was referring to is what I have called
    a \"digital vernacular\" -- a quality of simplified and often unexpected geometry
    being applied in otherwise traditional forms. From my perspective this trend traces
    back through faces like Downer's Vendetta (1997) and Majoor's Scala (1991) to
    van Blokland's Proforma (1988) and Carter's Charter (1987) and ultimately to Unger's
    Swift (1985). Pre-digital influences include Dwiggins's experiments on the one
    hand and the Czech \"school\" (Menhart, Preissig foremost, Tyfa also) on the other.\r\n\r\nIt
    strikes me that there are two threads of motivation in these precedents -- one
    technical and the other aesthetic. The early digital faces I cited were, as Nick
    pointed out, to a large extent confronting technical constraints, and their simplified
    geometry comes from efforts to create robustness in the face of coarse resolutions,
    as well as to conserve memory. The character that comes through is influenced
    strongly by the problems set before the designers.\r\n\r\nThe other thread is
    an aesthetic one. The Czech designers were essentially operating within the general
    \"expressionist\" zeitgeist. The willfully coarse finish of Menhart and Preissig
    comes from a desire to infuse energy into traditional letterforms while at the
    same time stripping them of any excess typographic baggage.\r\n\r\nDwiggins, in
    his own way, was also motivated primarily by aesthetic concerns. His experiments
    in what he called the \"M-formula\" were foremost an attempt to infuse a certain
    \"snap\" and \"action\" to the letterforms. His newsface efforts also professed
    to combat certain optical/technical constraints as well. But I think primarily
    he was exploring a type aesthetic that was influenced by his own cultural milieu
    -- Art Deco and Cubism, among others. This aesthetic is seen more overtly in his
    stencilled ornament and illustration.\r\n\r\nNowadays, the technical constraints
    facing Unger and Carter are largely overcome (at least in print), and yet Swift
    and Charter still seem fresh and vital. The continued exploration of this formal
    territory in contemporary designs seems primarily for aesthetic effect.\r\n\r\nSpeaking
    for myself, there is a fascination with taking seemingly inexpressive, reductive
    elements -- straight lines and simple curve segments -- and carefully combining
    them to create an unexpected grace or an organic tension. The yin/yang of the
    geometric vs. the organic is an ages-old formal dichotomy that can be found interspersed
    throughout the history of visual culture. The trend that we see in some contemporary
    type designs is just another expression of that exploration.\r\n\r\nI use the
    term \"digital vernacular\" because this kind of expression seems to embody an
    inherently digital aesthetic: there is a sense of \"truth to the material\" that
    is appealing. I say <em>\"seems to\"</em> because strictly speaking, of course,
    this isn't true at all -- there is nothing about beziers that lends them more
    to straight lines or simple curves; in fact, the wonderful inventiveness of bezier
    curves is exactly the opposite, that they can be so complex and supple.\r\n\r\nSimilarly,
    there is nothing inherent in the woodcut medium that demands the rough, coarse
    cuts of the Expressionist work of Kirchner as opposed to the fine detail of engravings
    by Bewick, for example. And yet the raw woodcuts seem to evince a greater \"truth
    to the material.\"\r\n\r\n----------\r\n\r\n26 June 2004\r\n\r\n<cite> > @addison:
    And Kent, I really am interested by your take on the \"truth in materials\" because
    it's usually associated with an \"unfinished\" quality (coarse cuts in a wood
    print, visible strokes in a painting, loose lines in a drawing...). I use the
    word \"unfinished\" for lack of a better word--I would never call a Van Gogh unfinished.
    But could this same quality be applied to type? </cite>\r\n\r\nWell, I think this
    is part of the current appeal of the \"digital vernacular.\" There is a sense
    of immediacy in the forms, a sense of seeing the \"raw materials\" or being closer
    to the process, in some cases.\r\n\r\nThis notion was part of the philosophical
    underpinnings of many modern movements in visual art, beginning perhaps with the
    Impressionists and culminating in the Abstract Expressionists (think Pollock and
    DeKooning) and Color-Field painters (Morris Louis, Helen Frankenthaler, Paul Jenkins).\r\n\r\nThe
    Bauhaus had a strong \"materials\" ethic, which had a profound influence on architecture
    and graphic design. I am not surprised to see this theme appear in contemporary
    type design.\r\n\r\nBut, as I alluded to earlier, in many cases this is really
    a charade. In a digital medium, \"truth to material\" becomes a nebulous thing.
    When Bezier curves can easily be made to represent smooth, supple, and complex
    forms, why should simple geometric forms seem more \"true\" to the medium?\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure why coarseness and unrefined characteristics are viewed as somehow more
    integral to the nature of a material. But there it is. And the modern era has
    often explored the dichotomy between the coarse and the refined, between the raw
    material and the conceptual idea.\r\n\r\nIt seems to be a perennial fascination.
    \r\n\r\n----------\r\n\r\n-- Kent.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-09 14:24:07'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Cut and then curved architecture:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/stivo_3892.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-09 14:39:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Great photo, Craig!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-09 15:27:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think we can get in to a dilemma if we apply too much of the philosophical
    reasoning of past design eras to working today. Modernist \"true to material\"
    philosophy perhaps was behind the visual outcome of much of their work historically
    but, as Kent points out, does not have to apply today. That is to say the reasoning
    does not ring true but does not mean some of the visual outcome (such as the cut
    look being discussed) cannot be used for whatever other reason contemporary designers
    may have for it. It does not even need a philosophy in vogue today as a rationalization.
    \r\nIn my case, I just used it as a means to solve a visual problem--how do I
    make a join that does not have much room (as in a bold counter) but not make it
    look too soft for the rest of the face. There was no philosophical meaning or
    pen logic or truth to the medium. It was just trial-and-error problem solving.
    \r\nDwiggins may have had his own reasoning and it may have fit his own philosophical
    thought but I will leave it to the real Dwiggists to comment on that. I do think
    techniques used in the past are still open to use in the present regardless of
    past practitioners reasoning. There have always been and are sure to in the future,
    coincidental rediscoveries of techniques often even without awareness of the older
    usage. We will never know how many times the wheel was invented or how it came
    about. Perhaps one time was philosophically mimicking the round Sun as a deity
    and another, more pragmatic time, a eureka while watching a rolling stone gathering
    no moss.\r\nMy point is that it is not so much an issue of what was or is in vogue
    as it is what problem does a given technique solve for the designer. Necessity
    can always be the mother of invention where philosophy requires buying in to its
    principles before you act on them.\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-09 16:20:31'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "It's a super-interesting issue, but we should devote a separate thread to
    it, similar to what happened when John Hudson tried to underline the equivocal
    meaning of the word \"visual communication\".\r\nWithout getting lost in pointless
    \"philosophy per-se\", I think these discussions could prove really interesting
    tom underline what's of value (and what is not) in working with a computer\u2026
    :=)"
  created: '2008-02-09 20:59:46'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite>Paul Shaw recently wrote an article for the Italian bibliophile journal
    Bibliologia about one of Dwiggins\u2019s book designs.</cite>\r\n\r\nWow! Super-cool.
    I am a big fan of Paul, and I met him in person in 2002, when he was in Italy
    (he dined at my home).\r\nI will surely ask him\u2026 :=)"
  created: '2008-02-09 21:04:53'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Kent thank you very much for connecting the thread back to those ideas. And
    thanks too for the references as well!\r\n\r\nI am not sure that this set of philosophy
    questions is completely outside of the thread. But I agree it would form the basis
    of a viable thread itself. \r\n\r\nThinking about the intent and context of this
    kind of micro typographical feature is interesting. Although the feature I have
    dubbed 'cut & curved' may be recognizable in all the stuff we are looking at here
    in this thread, there is as Carl has pointed out the break between the feature
    rising out a chirographic urge and one which is more Dwiggins like. There is also
    the feature of the cut being used in a ways that may be dubious or successful
    but not derived from the Dwiggins approach. And it is possible for a person to
    reinvent \"Dwiggins wheel\" as well as Chris points out. I hope that I am developing
    my ability to discern each one."
  created: '2008-02-09 22:10:20'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Chris is totally right about the consequences of making choices \u2014 one
    could start out designing a typeface with the premisse of just using straight
    segments, amd presto: Journal!\r\n\r\nBut more OT: Cut and Curved is more Zeitgeist.
    Like rounded was last years\u2019 hip thing. (And I am talking about the left
    part of the Bell Curve).\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-02-10 00:35:23'
- author:
    name: Scalfin
    picture: 114154
  body: For some reason, some of these fonts remind me of Runic MP Condensed.
  created: '2008-02-10 00:40:55'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>one could start out designing a typeface with the premisse of just
    using straight segments, amd presto: Journal!</em>\r\n\r\nI agree. The typeface
    I've been working on (to which I've linked earlier in this thread) also has no
    real philosophy pers\xE9 behind it. I must have seen the cut and curve feature
    somewhere, since I wanted to make a typeface with it for over a year before I
    started it. The reason behind it basically is; I liked it, and wanted to see if
    I could incorporate it myself with succes. Since I was fiddling around with it
    for quite some time, I don't think I was influenced by what now seems to be a
    rage.\r\nI understood that there is a chirographic rationale behind the shapes,
    but I had no idea there was so much information about it (like the Dwiggins stuff).
    Great. :)"
  created: '2008-02-10 01:19:28'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Bert you might have something there. But what about all these Reading faces?
    They have been making that flavor of stuff for years now  - no? '
  created: '2008-02-10 08:32:58'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I would like to understand once for all what \"chirographic\" means (and
    what means to you).\r\nTo me the features coming out of a certain handwriting
    style and historical period represent a technology as much as building a letter
    out of modules or studying alternation of elements aside from handwriting, like
    Dwiggins did.\r\nI have never studied typography or graphic design, and the M
    theory of Dwiggins is something I probably assimilated indirectly through different
    designs, but I have to say it always came quite natural to me to introduce alternations
    of different elements in letters or in any other graphics.\r\n\r\nAnd ultimately
    I never give too much attention to fashionable \"trends\", because they drown
    all my interest in the things they pick up\u2026 :=("
  created: '2008-02-10 09:48:25'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "To me \u201Cchirographic\u201D in the context of fonts means having features
    that are derived from the action of a pen. If you search Typophile via google
    you will see many answers to your question. You could also look at the wiki here:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/21163?\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-10 09:53:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...the M theory of Dwiggins is something I probably assimilated indirectly
    through different designs, but I have to say it always came quite natural to me
    to introduce alternations of different elements in letters or in any other graphics.\"\r\n\r\nThat
    is exactly what I was referring to above. You just did it naturally as a part
    of your intuative working process without first looking at either current trends
    or past successes of others.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-10 15:37:06'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: 'Spontaneous reaction to the image posted [paul d hunt 6.Feb.2008 12.41pm]:
    Very nice!'
  created: '2008-02-10 16:46:32'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Eben, do you know when the word was invented [chirographic]?\r\nI mean, is
    that a recent coin, or is just me that I don't know it?\r\nAs I have a minute
    I will comment about the idea of \"derivation\" you talk about, related to letters.\r\nI
    never understood Hrant's use of that word\u2026"
  created: '2008-02-10 19:44:12'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I think he was interested in making a distinction between font designs whose
    shapes were completely (or nearly so ) determined by the logic offered by pen
    strokes and those shapes were not. This distinction is not his. The term was not
    invented by him either. Take a look here:\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chirography\r\n\r\nIn
    contrast, if decide what shapes to use based only on what you thought would help
    the design to work that could be called a-chirographic. This does not imply a
    specific solution or a specific alternative visual model but an approach to font
    making. That kind of design might be called Typographic in it's orientation although
    the term itself doesn't carry that specificity in it's meaning yet.\r\n\r\nHrant
    is keen on the work of Blosema, and Fleischman and has held them up as contrasting
    examples. Look at the Dwiggin examples here on this thread. I think They meet
    Hrant's criteria too. As does Kent's design. See also the Carl Crossgrove's post
    above. It is excellent.\r\n\r\nBut you associate him with the term and the reason
    is constant use. My impression is that he has been the most vocal champion of
    the idea that type designers - especially of text faces - should avoid excessive
    reliance on Chirographic logic. Hence his repeated use of the word. For him it
    is a kind of derogatory epithet.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-10 22:00:16'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Yes, Bert, this kind of thing is part of the current Zeitgeist -- and by
    that I mean much more than just the last year or two (which would indicate merely
    a trend). This is what I mean to imply by my use of the term \"digital vernacular.\"
    It has become part of the current vocabulary. \r\n\r\nAnd like language, this
    evolves subconsciously. You see something that seems to  express part of yourself,
    it resonates with you, and you try it on for yourself. \r\n\r\nI don't think that
    the prevalence of this characteristic in a lot of current designs is just because
    it's the latest \"hip\" thing (although there is undoubtedly an element of that
    in some cases). \r\n\r\nChris -- You know the nature of historical theorizing
    is to draw parallels and trace possible paths of development to create a context
    for understanding contemporary expressions. Sometimes it's just an overlay. It
    doesn't always necessarily prove direct or conscious cause & effect. \r\n\r\nBut
    hey -- as you know, \"the old guys stole all our best ideas,\" right?\r\n\r\n--
    K.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-10 23:28:47'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "BTW Eben, if I'm not mistaken, it was John Hudson who initially introduced
    the word \"chirography\" (during some long-ago debate on either the Typo-L or
    ATypI list, I think), which Hrant then took up for his own purposes. \r\n\r\nJohn
    can correct me if I'm mis-remembering my history.\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2008-02-10 23:33:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> I don\u2019t think that the prevalence of this characteristic in a
    lot of current designs is just because it\u2019s the latest \u201Chip\u201D thing
    </cite> I agree. I think it has real potential for utility."
  created: '2008-02-10 23:34:45'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>what about all these Reading faces?</em>\r\n\r\nthis comment is a bit
    sad really. i don't think that you can really just lump everything that comes
    out of Reading into one category.\r\n\r\nI agree with Kent that this is simply
    just another tool available to typeface designers. It can be exploited for design
    purposes or employed as a solution to different problems. the latter was what
    pushed my work so far in this direction."
  created: '2008-02-10 23:37:22'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'RE: John & Chirography; Hmm maybe so. Maybe an OED search is in order. :-)'
  created: '2008-02-10 23:41:40'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> i don\u2019t think that you can really just lump everything that comes
    out of Reading into one category. </cite>\r\n\r\nYou are quite right. If that's
    impression my comment gave then I apologize. I meant nothing disparaging. The
    potential utility of the feature would be reason enough for it to show up a great
    deal and particularly if students were emphasizing text font design which seems
    to be the case. "
  created: '2008-02-11 00:10:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Doesn't chirography cover more than the calligraphic tools? I took it to
    mean any writing by human hand.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-11 00:17:53'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I have an OED query in. I'll let you know.
  created: '2008-02-11 00:49:45'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "The OED says \r\n\r\n\"chiro{sm}graphic a., -{sm}graphical a., of, pertaining
    to, or in handwriting;\"\r\n\r\nfirst recorded use 1885.\r\n\r\nThis doesn't mean
    that John was not the first to use it as a description of a font design.  The
    OED records no use in that context. So it it's probably safe to say that used
    in this way it amounts to  specialist speech, typo-argot or jargon. "
  created: '2008-02-11 01:09:04'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Okay, having dragged poor unwitting John into this, I feel compelled to set
    the record straight. \r\n\r\nOn 4 Nov 2002, John Hudson did indeed introduce the
    term \"chirographic\" in an e-mail list discussion about the works of Gerrit Noordzij
    (which grew out of the ATypI list). He was attempting to construct an analytic
    framework for understanding Noordzij ideas in <cite>Letterletter</cite>. \r\n\r\n\"Writing\"
    is a key concept in Noordzij's essays. John was scrutinizing the use of the two
    terms \"writing\" and \"calligraphy,\" which he felt were used in an ambiguous
    relationship. He noted that \"calligraphy\" had some underlying stylistic connotations
    which he felt led to misinterpretations of what Noordzij might have been saying.
    He introduced the broader (and less heavily laden) term \"chirography\" in the
    context of trying to map some of Noordzij's interrelated concepts of typography
    and writing:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"A less common English word is chirography, literally
    'hand writing', which \r\nhas its own adjective, chirographic, although the latter
    usually refers \r\nsimply to the fact that something has been written by hand,
    rather than to \r\nany aesthetic or structural qualities of the writing.\"</cite>\r\n\r\n[I
    hope John will forgive me for this direct quote without permission.]\r\n\r\nLater,
    in mid December 2002, Hrant used \"chirography\" in a different discussion on
    the same list, and essentially as a slightly broader substitute for \"calligraphy,\"
    meaning an approach to letter formation that relies upon the logic of the hand.
    He added a footnote and said: <cite> \"* Thanks, John. This is what I've decided
    to use from now on.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nThe typo-argot meaning of the term that we
    now encounter in Typophile discussions grows directly out of Hrant's constant
    employment of the term for his purposes (somewhat like \"bouma\").\r\n\r\nThere
    you go: lexicography happening right here in our very midst.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-11 16:07:17'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks Kent! And thanks to John as well. It really is a good choice.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-11 17:18:55'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Many thanks to you all!\r\nIt's really a good thing to read yor reflections:
    far from being uselessly \"intellectual\", they help me to understand and work
    more consciously. I'm sorry I missed an Eben Sorkin and a Kent Lew for such a
    long time\u2026 :=)\r\n\r\nYes, I was tricked by Hrant's use of the world, which
    as I recall was often deprecatory.\r\n<cite>[\u2026] Hrant used \u201Cchirography\u201D
    in a different discussion on the same list, and essentially as a slightly broader
    substitute for \u201Ccalligraphy,\u201D meaning an approach to letter formation
    that relies upon the logic of the hand.</cite>\r\nIf we use \"chirography\" to
    indicate the inherent features of a writing instrument, it's clear that, as we
    stylize more the alphabet, we get past those.\r\nBut, (as I do not see typography
    as something \"basically\" different than \"handwriting\"), we should recall that
    letters, stylized as much as they can be in their \"flesh\", are forms with \"skeletons\"
    defined by the hand.\r\n\r\nI have looked into an Italian etimologic dictionary,
    and I have found the word \"chir\xF2grafo\", which means:\r\n\"document written
    by hand (XIV century, volgarized by St. Gregory the Great)\".\r\nThe etimology
    is indicated as coming from the Greek \"ch\xE9ir\xF3graphon\" (\"manuscript\"),
    composed by \"ch\xE9ir\" (\"hand\") and -graphon.\r\n\r\nSince we are still using
    mouses with our hand, I find the word as in this \"jargon\" use, still not so
    suitable to underline what Hrant deprecated in typefaces. :=)"
  created: '2008-02-13 20:44:55'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Cutting glyphs out of slices of potato with a small sharp knife will lead
    to a certain type of font.\r\nDoing the same with hardgrained wood and a chisel
    to something else.\r\nBuilding a font with Lego-like parts id ib.\r\n\r\nMy point:
    the tools define the result. Using basic forms to construct type has been around
    for a while (see Ungers experiments a la Decoder and his subsequent fonts, also
    Fred Smeijers\u2019 insightful Counterpunch). \r\n\r\nFooling around with a selection
    of interesting shapes is very easy on a computer. But if this leads to better
    typefaces? I wonder\u2026\r\n\r\nOne prediction: real blurry fonts are the next
    hip thing. Especially ones that morph realtime.\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen
    BNO"
  created: '2008-02-13 21:18:47'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"\u201D...the M theory of Dwiggins is something I probably assimilated indirectly
    through different designs, but I have to say it always came quite natural to me
    to introduce alternations of different elements in letters or in any other graphics.\u201D\r\n\r\nThat
    is exactly what I was referring to above. You just did it naturally as a part
    of your intuative working process without first looking at either current trends
    or past successes of others.\"\r\n\r\nHmmm..... Tiff, Kent, someone, can you post
    [a link to] the text of Dwiggins' Marionette theory? It's not long or technical,
    and I have a feeling some of us need a refresher. That would be more useful right
    now than more definitions of \"chirography\". "
  created: '2008-02-14 00:17:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "In Kents own words:\r\n\"For now I can summarize. The M-formula document
    was a letter written by WAD to C.H. Griffith at Mergenthaler Linotype on July
    3, 1937. It consists of four short \"memoranda\" -- brief observations that all
    orbit around an idea for treating type letters in a new fashion.\r\n\r\nThe first
    of these is a hunch that advertising printers are interested in a type letter
    that \"will carry a good charge of ink . . . and still look crisp and finished
    instead of blobby and squz-out.\"\r\n\r\nThe second is a reference to an article
    by R. Hopper in Printing Art Quarterly, March 4, 1936, entitled \"What Will Be
    Tomorrow's Types\" which predicts a return to classical forms, but with less imitation
    of hand-lettering and with a new crispness and refinement influenced by precision
    machines.\r\n\r\nThe third memorandum is the famous observation which gives the
    concept its handle \"M-formula\" -- M for marionette. This is Dwiggins's observation
    while cutting marionette faces that in order to really get the head of a young
    girl to \"read\" from the back seats, he needed to cut otherwise soft features
    as sharp planes -- \"These sharp-cut planes, when viewed on the stage, by some
    magic transformed themselves into delicately rounded curves and subtle modellings;
    and the faces looked like young girls from clear across the room, as well as from
    the front benches.\"\r\n\r\nThe final memorandum refers to his stencil ornaments
    -- which he jokingly called \"geometric spinach\"  -- and observes how curves
    and lines go together to create a dynamic grace. I quoted from this passage in
    my earlier message.\r\n\r\nDwiggins pulls these all together, saying \"I have
    been cogitating the matters touched upon in Memoranda 3 & 4, with a view to discovering
    from them a method for modelling type-letters in some other than the traditional
    way -- to produce in the printed words the quite astonishing results I get with
    marionette heads and with geometrical spinach.\" He also includes some illustrations
    of his points and some trial letters for Griffith to consider.\r\n\r\nThe practical
    essence of the M-formula was summarized by Dwiggins a year later as \"a method
    to trick the eye (in viewing objects much reduced) into seeing curves that aren't
    there.\"\r\n\r\nAlthough the image of Dwiggins having some grand epiphany while
    carving wooden marionettes has some romantic appeal, I think far too much is sometimes
    made of this \"M\" aspect of the M-formula. It's a catchy handle, no doubt, but
    the letter of July 1937 is really a culmination of ideas that Dwiggins had been
    formulating for at least a year before. In fact, about five months earlier, WAD
    had written another letter to CHG which laid out most of these exact same points
    -- referring to the Hopper article and talking about applying aspects of his ornaments
    (\"junctions sharp and square\") to type letters -- without any mention of the
    whole marionette thing.\r\n\r\nAlso, one quibble that I have with Unger's article
    is that it gives the impression (unintentionally, no doubt) that the M-formula
    was developed specifically in the context of newspaper type design, which, in
    my opinion, is not true. It is not until a year later that he applies the idea
    to a newspaper typeface in development. And even then, it is only one of five
    possible directions he presented.\r\n\r\nThe M-formula document is filed in the
    Griffith archives with the dossier on the newspaper type Hingham. And Hingham
    is unquestionably one of the fuller explorations of these ideas. But, in my opinion,
    the original letter was conceived more closely in connection with the Falcon design
    where, as I've said, Dwiggins also poured many of these ideas in search of a sharp-finished
    oldstyle, only to abandon it in the end.\r\n\r\nAgain, sorry for the lengthy and
    slightly academic tome. I hope it has proved at least somewhat interesting to
    some on the list.\r\n\r\n-- Kent.\r\n\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-14 01:09:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Here is the text of the famous RR letter:\r\n\r\n\r\n\"               WAD
    to RR\r\n        a letter about designing =type=\r\n\r\n        Harvard College
    Library\r\n        Department of Printing and Graphic Arts\r\n        1940  Cambridge,
    Massachusetts\r\n\r\n\r\n        Copyright 1940 by Harvard College Library\r\n
    \       Department of Printing and Graphic Arts\r\n\r\n        =printed under
    the supervision of gehman taylor gordon-taylor inc.  cambridge=\r\n\r\n\r\n[This
    text is a slightly expanded version of a letter written on July 21 1937 to a friend
    who wanted to know how one went about designing a typeface.]\r\n\r\n  =Dear RR:\r\n
    \ The= way I work at present\r\nis to draw an alphabet 10 times 12 point size,
    with a pen or brush, the letters carefully finished.  I start with the lower-case,
    and let its characters settle the style of the capitals.  Ten times twelve point
    is a convenient size to work; and I have a diminishing glass that reduces the
    letters to something like 12 point size when I put the drawing on the floor and
    squint at it through the glass held belt high.  This gives a rough idea of what
    the reduction does to curves and things.\r\n  Having got a start on what I want
    by this means I turn the drawing over to G.~ and he puts a few of the characters
    through -possibly lower-case _h_ and _p_.  He makes his large pattern drawings
    (64 times 12 point) cuts, casts and proves the trial characters; and sends me
    his large drawings, my 10 times drawings, & proofs on smooth and rough paper.\r\n
    \ By looking at all these for two or three days I get an idea of how to go forward
    -or, if the result is a dud, how to start over again.  From the large pattern-sheets
    I can see just how details behave when they get down to size, and can change the
    weights of serifs, thin lines, etc., etc., accordingly.  _Curves_ do all kinds
    of queer things when reduced; and the way lines running together make spots is
    a thing that will surprise you -but one or two tries on these points give you
    the information you need.  I am beginning to get the drift of it and to foresee
    from the large drawings what will happen in the type.  I can _modify_ in the large
    outline drawings, but so far I can't _originate_ in that medium.\r\n  In making
    the Falcon I tried another scheme for arriving at the characteristics of the first-run
    experimental letters.  I cut stencils in celluloid -a long and a short stem, the
    _n_ arch, and a loop -_twice_ the size of 12 point -pretty small! -and constructed
    letters from these elements by stencilling.  When I had achieved a line of these
    little 24 point characters that looked good Griffith ran them up with his `shadowgraph'
    projector to the pattern drawing size in pencil outline.  From these enlargements
    I again cut stencils, or, more properly, templets in cardboard, for stems, the
    _n_ arch, and the _b_ loop, in the 64 times size -and made my hard-pencil outline
    patterns through these, a` la French curves.  You allow for the `set-off' of the
    pencil-point in cutting the templets.  I used the templet method in order to keep
    as close as I could to the `action' of the 24 point originals.\r\n\r\n  I'd say:
    make an alphabet, carefully finished, 10 \"*\" 12 point; getting these lines accurately
    placed: { \t\r\n\t                                                   |\r\n\t  top
    of ascenders        -------------------------o--\r\n\t                                                   |\r\n\t
    \                         --o----------------------|--\r\n\t                            |
    \                     |\r\n\t  `z height'                  putting this line    |\r\n\t
    \                           where you will         |\r\n\t                                                   |\r\n\t
    \                         -------------------------o--\r\n\t  established alignment
    \                           |\r\n\t  bottom of descenders    -------------------------o--\r\n}\r\n\r\n
    \ Then have Griff.~ cut and cast two letters -the ones that will tell you the
    most.  I like _n_, and _p_, _d_, or _b_, a straight one and a looped one.  Maybe
    _hp_ would be best.  Then, with the `actual size' proofs from the type, your 10
    times drawings, and G's large-size patterns in outline, you can see what you are
    doing; you can thicken or thin your stems or modify curves for another trial if
    needed, or go ahead with the rest of the letters on the original scheme.  I adopted
    `ten times' because it was easy to work with a 0.01 inch scale -but of course
    you could work any size you liked so long as it was some exact multiple of 12
    point or what ever size you are shooting for.\r\n  When G and I have settled dimensions,
    etc., to our liking, I go ahead with the alphabet on thin bond-paper in pencil
    outline, in the working drawing size -ruling off the horizontal bounding lines
    accurately, and then drawing the letters quite freely at first, in the `positive'
    position -passing the outline back and forth from one side of the paper to the
    other, erasing the previous outline as soon as I have established its child on
    the other side -modifying toward `the idea' at each change -until I get a `positive'
    that is good enough to mark down on the other side of the paper as a precise `negative'
    in thin pencil line -=6h=.  The patterns are all negative: back side to.  This
    negative is the guide for the foundry staff's French curves and straight-edges.
    \ My drawing is free-hand (except in such cases as the Falcon templets.)  I haven't
    any complaint to make about the staff's French curves -they do a surprisingly
    faithful job.  Just what happens in the next step -the reduction to the brass-pattern
    size (the patterns that guide the engraving-tool in cutting the ultimate 12 point
    punch) I don't know.  I haven't compared working-drawing with brass yet; not easy
    to do.  But so far as I can observe from the final proof they keep the original
    touch here too.\r\n\r\n  Up to this point the affair has been pretty much under
    your control.  You have made your individual lettershapes good according to your
    lights, and have got them through to metal type....  Will they behave decently
    _when they are combined into words_?  You can't tell yet.  All you can do about
    this question, in your _drawing_ stage, is to lean hard on the hunches you have
    picked up as to what letters do to each other when they are fitted together.\r\n
    \ =Fitting= is the process of working out the exactly right amount of space to
    go between letters.\r\n  Each type-letter, wherever it goes, carries along with
    it two _fixed_ blank spaces, one on each side.  And of course, each one of the
    26 is likely to be placed alongside any one of the other 25 with _their_ fixed
    blank spaces.  So the odds against you in the fitting game would seem to be 2704
    to 1.  (Would it be that, or 2500 to 1?)\r\n  But it isnt quite so bad -the letter-shapes
    occur in groups of similars: when you have solved for _n_ alongside of _n_ you
    are close to a workout for _h i j l m_ and for the stem sides of _b d k p q_ -a
    proper fitting for _o_ gives you a line on the round shapes, etc., etc.  _a, c,
    e,_ on their open sides, and _f g r t_ are hard to fit.....\r\n  Griffith steps
    in here, with his experience, and takes a first crack: establishes the `side-bearings'
    and sets up a trial page.  If the result is not satisfactory you go on from there
    by experiment.  Usually he makes it in one.\r\n  There isn't any fitting formula
    worked out yet.  G.~ says there can't be any: that it is a job for the eye alone.
    \ I have a hunch that a `course' formula could be worked out; because there is
    certainly a `right' interval for a given weight and height of stem, varying as
    these dimensions vary.  To find out and establish these right intervals of emptiness
    between occupied regions is one of the prime jobs of design -`voids & masses.'
    \r\n          WAD\r\n\r\n\r\n        This is the third publication by the\r\nDepartment
    of Printing and Graphic Arts in the Harvard College Library Cambridge\r\n        HCL\r\n\r\n\r\n........\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-14 01:30:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I certainly didn't invent the word 'chirography', which has been around for
    a good while. But I was the first to suggest it to Hrant as an aesthetically neutral
    term meaning simply hand-writing (as distinct from 'calligraphy', which he had
    been using, which implies a specific class of writing as art). Why say chirography
    instead of simply handwriting? Chirography adapts to an adjective, chirographic,
    that may be considered more abstract than 'handwritten', so one can apply it more
    easily to describe qualities of things that are not, in fact, written by hand.
  created: '2008-02-14 02:26:34'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite>so one can apply it more easily to describe qualities of things that
    are not, in fact, written by hand.</cite>\r\nYes, but typefaces are never \"written
    by hand\", so I don't see why I should consider basically better or worse what
    is more or less influenced by handwriting instruments.\r\nSurely typefaces require
    complex geometry, but referring heavily to devices related to writing instruments
    does not automatically make a typeface worse, as it seems to be partially implied
    by the use Hrant made of the word.\r\n\r\n@Carl, you wrote:\r\n\xABHmmm..... Tiff,
    Kent, someone, can you post [a link to] the text of Dwiggins\u2019 Marionette
    theory? It\u2019s not long or technical, and I have a feeling some of us need
    a refresher. That would be more useful right now than more definitions of \u201Cchirography\u201D.\xBB\r\nFor
    which reason do you say that?"
  created: '2008-02-14 12:29:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "More WAD 'M' text. From the memorandums Kent spoke about above:\r\n\r\n\"Memorandum
    1. My spies report that he-blooded advertising printers over the country want
    a type that will carry a good charge of ink on coated stock, and that on coated
    stock will look crisp and finished instead of blobby and squz-out. They want it,
    too, for newspaper ads., to get relatively strong color and at the same time a
    look of finish and snap.\r\n\r\n\r\nMemorandum 2. I lift these quotes from the
    article by Raymond Hopper you sent me: \u201CWhat will be tomorrow\u2019s types?\u201D\r\n\r\n\u201CI
    am convinced that the next step will be\u2026 some modification of the beauty
    that once was Greece and Rome\u201D (I hope so.)\r\n\r\n\u201CThe classical forms
    we shall soon begin to return to \u2013 even now are returning to \u2013 will
    not be simply the familiar old Caslon.\u201D\r\n\r\n\u201C\u2026 Whatever\u2026
    that may follow will have\u2026 less to owe to the traditional imitation of hand-lettering\u2026
    It is cast in metal, cut by precision machines, printed, not painted\u2026 The
    hard, clean lines of gravure processes; the printing of dull inks on even glossy
    papers; familiarity with and innate love for engraving; the crisp note struck
    by so-called modernistic furniture, all tend to foster the urge for something
    brilliant, scintillating. There will be a refinement, a finesse, that was lacking
    utterly in Caslon and Cloister, however lovely their forms may have been.\u201D\r\n\r\nMemorandum
    3. In cutting marionette heads in wood I came up against the problem of projecting
    the face of a girl \u2013 so that the doll would really look like a girl of 18
    \u2013 subtly modelled features, delicate, springlike, young \u2013 to the people
    in the back row. (Aged folk like us are easy to carve, and project) I started
    by making delicately modelled heads. [Exhibit A] These were charming at arm\u2019s
    length, but the girl quality did not carry to the back benches. Then I made a
    discovery. Instead of soft curves for the cheeks, etc., I cut flat planes with
    sharp edges. [Exhibit B] These sharp-cut planes, when viewed on the stage, by
    some magic transformed themselves into delicately rounded curves and subtle modellings;
    and the faces looked like young girls from clear across the room, as well as from
    the front benches.\r\n\r\nThe Experimental Type Designs of William Addison Dwiggins\r\n\r\nMemorandum
    4. In the kind of geometrical spinach I have been growing for printers\u2019 ornament,
    I note that straight-line forms and shapes of geometric curves properly put together
    achieve more effect of grace of line and curve and motion that do combinations
    of free flowing curves and shapes. The \u201Cgrace\u201D quality is somehow augmented
    \u2013 stepped up to a higher level by the sharp angular quality of the elements.
    Also, a new kind of tingle and life is added to the brew.\r\n\r\n[Exhibit C] is
    not the best specimen to illustrate the point, but compare, re \"vitality\" (and
    projection of the \u201Cgrace\u201D quality \u2013 come right out with it), with
    Frederick\u2019s [Goudy] carefully constructed curves. [Exhibit D]\r\n\r\nI have
    been cogitating the matters touched upon in Memorandum 3 and 4, with a view to
    discovering from them a method for modelling type-letters in some other than the
    traditional way \u2013 to produce in the printed words the quite astonishing results
    I get with marionette heads and with geometrical spinach.\r\n\r\nI have tried
    various schemes, and come out with one set of letters* that, under the reducing
    glass, shows a good portion of the kind of thing I have been aiming at. You can\u2019t
    see \u201Cit\u201D except in the reduction. The reducing lens I use puts the drawings
    down to close to 12 point where the copy is on the floor and you are standing
    up.\r\n\r\nThese letters are \u201Cclassical\u201D anatomy processed \xE0la marionette.
    You will see the method in the drawings. It is more evident in the lowercase than
    in the capitals, but that is OK because most of the character of any font is in
    the l.c. [lowercase].\r\n\r\nOne can\u2019t be dead sure, of course, [but] I have
    the hunch that these letters do not parallel any existing face. They may be worth
    trying out via the photo-reduction stunt. I think there is something good close
    along this line. \r\n\r\nW.A.D.\"\r\n\r\n\r\n-----\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-14 16:12:21'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Chris -- You must have cut this out of Tiffany's paper: The line \"The Experimental
    Type Designs of William Addison Dwiggins\" right before Memorandum 4 looks like
    her footer element. It is not part of WAD's original letter.\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2008-02-14 16:32:41'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Kent, have you explored WAD's unexplored newspaper heading design? Is that
    all there is?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-02-14 16:44:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Probably so, Kent. Now if I go back and edit it, the whole thing will be
    out of order.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-14 17:07:26'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"For which reason do you say that?\"\r\n\r\nClaudio, on Typophile for years
    it seems to me we have been asking, and re-answering, the question \"What is chirography?\".
    Shouldn't this just be a wiki node?  In contrast, I think the origin, application
    and results of this M-theory of Dwiggins, are very important for type designers
    to understand, and I think the original explanation of it is best, but somehow
    this information is not so easy to find. So many type designers now are happily
    mimicking forms they see without necessarily understanding their origins or purposes.
    This kind of surface appreciation could allow one to see mechanical pen artifacts
    as interchangeable with intentional optical tricks. Especially now that so few
    have familiarity with any hand-written techniques, I feel it's important to keep
    these ideas illuminated.  \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-14 18:20:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "On the term 'chirographic', my impression is that Hrant turned it into a
    kind of swear word that he has used against stuff he doesn't like that shows influence
    of the hand. The stuff that is geometric that he doesn't like he calls subservience
    to 'das grid' or something like that.\r\n\r\nSince almost all our letter forms
    have an origin in hand writing, I asked Hrant what was specifically chirographic
    in the evil sense he has in his head. But I didn't get any answer.   \r\n\r\nPersonally,
    I think that the influence of the hand can be good or bad, and it's up to the
    designer which way it goes. "
  created: '2008-02-14 19:12:40'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "David --\r\n\r\nYes, there's more, most of it not related to the image shown.
    Robb should have copies on that CD from our BPL adventures a couple years back.
    Plus, there's a little bit of related material from Kentucky. \r\n\r\nNo, I've
    not explored the direction shown here. I've tinkered with a different one, but
    nothing's come of it (been too busy with all that custom Whitman stuff ;-) \r\n\r\n--
    K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-14 19:13:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "piccic <em>but referring heavily to devices related to writing instruments
    does not automatically make a typeface worse, as it seems to be partially implied
    by the use Hrant made of the word.</em>\r\n\r\nHrant loads the terms with his
    ideological prejudices*, but that doesn't invalidate the usefulness of the term.
    For me, the term is simply descriptive of particular qualities that may be present
    in type design in greater or lesser degree. The argument about whether those qualities
    are desirable or not is another matter.\r\n\r\n* Since ideology and prejudice
    are commonly taken as having negative connotations, I should point out that, in
    respect to Hrant's opinions, I do not intend them as such. Hrant takes ideology
    seriously."
  created: '2008-02-14 19:25:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I do not intend them as such\r\n\r\nYeah, sure John :) "
  created: '2008-02-14 19:43:54'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" (been too busy with all that custom Whitman stuff ;-)\"\r\nVery sorry.
    Will not disturb again. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-02-14 19:46:14'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "<em>been too busy with all that custom Whitman stuff ;-)</em>\r\n\r\n::ears
    perk up::\r\n\r\nAs a type consumer, it was Kent and Xavier Dupr\xE9's type designs
    that made me aware of this type design convention. It also crops up in some of
    my favorite contemporary brush script-influenced faces. It quickly became something
    I sought out, when the opportunity presented itself. Not sure why, I just love
    the contrast and the forms it creates."
  created: '2008-02-14 20:33:00'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Heh heh. Don't get me wrong, David. I don't mind being busy. Also, I don't
    really mind being \"disturbed\" by you ;-) I'll send you some stuff when I get
    a chance.\r\n\r\n(And if I spent less time on these forums, I'd get more work
    done.)\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-14 22:55:02'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> I\u2019d get more work done. </cite>\r\n\r\nBut we would not learn
    nearly as much."
  created: '2008-02-14 23:12:27'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "@Carl: You are surely right, I think there is an enormous lack of good written
    material considering the important steps of work in history (especially our work,
    especially when book design enters the industrial revolution and the split between
    \"graphic design\" and \"fine typograpjhy\" begins\u2026). In Italy we have probably
    the worst situation. Me and Antonio are trying to map it out a little\u2026 :=)\r\nHowever,
    I thought you were talking in general, not about that term [chirography].\r\nSince
    I have been here very rarely in the past 2 years, I saw it employed mostly by
    Hrant, and so I asked, because I consider the reflection upon the meaning of the
    words a very important thing. I am always delighted when I understand a word more
    properly.\r\n\r\n@John: OK, but \"chiro-\" is \"the hand\", while the \"cut and
    curved\" systematized in the M-theory is not simply a thing \"borrowed\" from
    calligraphy but \u2014 from what I have read in Tiffany's PDF about Dwiggins \u2014
    is beyond that, it's a reflection upon the variability between different elemets
    in order to create tension and features that makes things more attractive and
    more functional as well (I dare saying \"more wholesome\"?).\r\nOf course, as
    Carl Crossgrove pointed out, being conscious of what has been done and laid down,
    makes new work more fruitful. Why don't you write a book on these things? [Not
    only Dwiggins, but also other great professionals with different approaches\u2026]\r\n\r\n@Eben:
    <cite>\xABBut we would not learn nearly as much.\xBB</cite>\r\nYes, Kent should
    find a good balance\u2026 :=)"
  created: '2008-02-16 21:05:15'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Kent: \"The willfully coarse finish of Menhart and Preissig comes from a
    desire to infuse energy into traditional letterforms while [...] stripping them
    of any excess typographic baggage.\"\r\n\r\nI think the infusion of energy fonr
    the course finish, uploaded so much baggage, they had few places to go.;)\r\n\r\n\"The
    yin/yang of the geometric vs. the organic is an ages-old formal dichotomy that
    can be found interspersed throughout the history of visual culture\"\r\nI think
    the real cool thing is not geometric VS.. the organic, but geometric AS organic.
    That is to say, when something of organic origin, moves to being represented in
    a geometric construction, without becoming ying/yan-ed, so to speak.\r\n\r\nJohn
    H.: \"I certainly didn\u2019t invent the word \u2019chirography\u2019[...] But
    [...] as an aesthetically neutral term meaning simply hand-writing (as distinct
    from \u2019calligraphy\u2019, which he had been using, which implies a specific
    class of writing as art).\"\r\n\r\nI liked this part. Because it asks one to specify
    language, script and style, or make no sense. \r\n\r\n\"Chirography adapts to
    an adjective, chirographic, that may be considered more abstract than \u2019handwritten\u2019,
    so one can apply it more easily to describe qualities of things that are not,
    in fact, written by hand.\"\r\n\r\nBut I want terms for three kinds of type:\r\n1.
    represents a style of writing that could be written, with a single tool from a
    single position. (Zapf Chancery Italic)\r\n2. represents a style of type not completely
    written, but made with a single tool from a few positions. (Times)\r\n3. represents
    a style of type that requires multiple tools and positions, and writing is not
    being represented. (Eurostyle).\r\n\r\nIs that Calligraphy, Chirography, and Construgraphy?\r\n\r\n\"(And
    if I spent less time on these forums, I\u2019d get more work done.)\"\r\nMaybe,
    maybe not. I'm hardly one to talk, and it's hard to tell. I have a bell that rings
    every 15 minutes and so i almost have to go.\r\n\r\n\"But we would not learn nearly
    as much.\"\r\nYeah, you'd have to buy the fonts otherwise. ;)\r\n\r\nAs Carl points
    out, a funny thing about this trend is that printing is good. The M-theory's main
    usefulness now is to add something, sparkle, that previous generations didn't
    want at large sizes, and couldn't get at small sizes, without writing it. . .\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-18 14:55:41'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > but geometric AS organic.</cite>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/WAD_BPL-0518_5595.gif]\r\n\r\nExactly.
    I think that's what WAD was trying to achieve with his geometrical spinach. \r\n\r\nI
    think the whole M-formula \"overcoming-technical-limitations-in-small-print\"
    thing is a red herring. I think WAD did what he did because he liked the way it
    looked -- he liked the \"snap\" and \"action\".\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-18 19:24:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>@John: OK, but \u201Cchiro-\u201D is \u201Cthe hand\u201D, while the
    \u201Ccut and curved\u201D systematized in the M-theory is not simply a thing
    \u201Cborrowed\u201D from calligraphy but \u2014 from what I have read in Tiffany\u2019s
    PDF about Dwiggins \u2014 is beyond that, it\u2019s a reflection upon the variability
    between different elemets in order to create tension and features that makes things
    more attractive and more functional as well (I dare saying \u201Cmore wholesome\u201D?).</em>\r\n\r\nYes.
    I was explaining the use of the term chirographic, not justifying its use in this
    particular case (which I hadn't noticed). Dwiggins' M-formula is not chirographic,
    either in origin or in application. Indeed, what is notable about its application
    is that Dwiggins applies the cut into the thicker stem transitions, whereas a
    chirographic cut is only really possible at the thinnest transition."
  created: '2008-02-18 20:10:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>But I want terms for three kinds of type:\r\n1. represents a style
    of writing that could be written, with a single tool from a single position. (Zapf
    Chancery Italic)\r\n2. represents a style of type not completely written, but
    made with a single tool from a few positions. (Times)\r\n3. represents a style
    of type that requires multiple tools and positions, and writing is not being represented.
    (Eurostyle).\r\n\r\nIs that Calligraphy, Chirography, and Construgraphy?</em>\r\n\r\n1.
    Chirographic (of which calligraphic is one subset).\r\n\r\n2. Parachirographic
    (which covers the majority of historical type design; Peter Enneson's term).\r\n\r\n3.
    Non-chirographic (of which there are various subsets, e.g. geometrically constructed)."
  created: '2008-02-18 20:15:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Great thread! I hope to read it all one day.  :-/\r\n\r\nBTW, I propose the
    adjective: cuspy.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-09 20:15:01'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: BTW - missspelling - it should be Evert "Bloemsma"
  created: '2008-11-10 23:34:57'
- author:
    name: qu1j0t3
    picture: 109648
  body: "Under this rubric I would add: Berthold & Margaret Wolpe, noting Albertus
    as an example, as well as a lot of hand lettering such as Faber covers.\r\n\r\n(Which
    happen to be the subject of a recent web gallery at the Guardian: http://www.guardian.co.uk/books/gallery/2009/jul/10/publishing-fiction?picture=350087654
    )"
  created: '2009-07-14 03:56:59'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Wolpe is a good mention, Toby. Check out his lesser known <a href="http://bowfinprintworks.com/PegasusSample.html">Pegasus</a>.
  created: '2014-01-23 21:05:00'
date: '2008-02-04 17:05:36'
node_type: forum
title: Cut and then curved

---
