---
author:
  name: pattyfab
  picture: 109929
body: "Argh!!! The horror!!! Motivational spiritual mumbo-jumbo meets painfully hideous
  design. I can't believe this guy has a job.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TpNnbNonlA4&feature=related\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Isn't that one of those 'vile' videos all the cool kids are talking about?
  created: '2008-02-06 18:25:03'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: That dude is so boring, I can't even watch past the first minute.
  created: '2008-02-06 18:53:15'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I can no longer use the word hierarchy. :^\ This guy has learned some hot
    buzzwords. That''s it. '
  created: '2008-02-06 19:10:02'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Ha! That's crazy.
  created: '2008-02-06 19:19:42'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: It is sad :-( from <A HREF="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gutenberg_Bible">this</A>
    to that in 550 years of "progress".
  created: '2008-02-06 19:32:51'
- author:
    name: The Don Killuminati
    picture: 113938
  body: "If he invests in a nicer shirt he could be the <a href=\"#\" class=\"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J3YOIImOoYM\">Sam
    Harris</a> of typography.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-06 19:43:20'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "You know what really scares me? That there are enough book designers who
    didn\u2019t learn about hierarchy and mood in Typography 101 to fill a lecture
    hall. "
  created: '2008-02-06 19:52:02'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: I just finished all his videos. Once you get over the fact that you intensely
    hate him, he is more right than wrong.
  created: '2008-02-06 20:04:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> there are enough book designers who didn\u2019t learn about hierarchy
    and mood in Typography 101 to fill a lecture hall.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's the kind
    of thing I walk out of, but most people are too polite."
  created: '2008-02-06 20:49:07'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: He must be a great designer ... I mean, he is wearing a black t-shirt.
  created: '2008-02-06 20:53:06'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'Seems to be targeting the ''self help book/direct marketing'' demographic.
    It always boggles my mind when seemingly design-savvy publications like DWELL
    and Print resort to crappy direct marketing mail to win over customers. '
  created: '2008-02-06 21:20:34'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: I agree with Nick - this guy is awful!
  created: '2008-02-06 23:30:19'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I dunno - I'm sort of all for \"a unique wavy shape that sets a vibrational
    frequency and brands the book instantly.\" Who can argue with that???? :o)\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-02-07 00:35:17'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Oh yeah, popup windows in print. I like those too.\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-02-07 00:38:00'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Are you saying he's from Norway?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ley_Hell_3635.png]\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-02-07 00:51:15'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>I dunno - I\u2019m sort of all for \u201Ca unique wavy shape that sets
    a vibrational frequency and brands the book instantly.\u201D Who can argue with
    that???? :o)</cite>\r\n\r\nIt used to be called a radio spot."
  created: '2008-02-07 03:20:55'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Why are we letting everyone forming our imaginations for us?\r\n\r\nIt has
    gotten to the point that if I want to read a news article, I can't - it only comes
    in video. I am reminded of music in the 1980s - I liked songs and had my own interpretation
    of them - and all of a sudden there was MTV. I felt sorry for the generation growing
    up with that music - they would never be able to go into their minds and see what
    could emerge.\r\n\r\nI wrote a comment Heron2001 on that page -- and I really
    mean what I wrote. I think that person should first attend some classes in Education
    about how children are taught to read. Followed up by a trip to a bookstore to
    see what works and what doesn't work.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I am not about to sit
    down with a picture book -- and have \"pop-ups\" come into my life. I block them
    on the net - and I will block them in my reading. If I want a picture book - I
    shall buy one. But if I want a good read, and I want to interpret what the author
    has said without distraction, I'll go for the tried and true typography that will
    live on.\r\n\r\nBoy is his stuff dated - anyone here using Lithos lately?... Enough.
    I have real work to do - real page layouts that folks are going to love looking
    at to read! \r\n\r\nWhat ever happened to READING? Is it really gone...."
  created: '2008-02-07 12:55:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "What a talented guy! \r\n\r\nI'd much rather see a spread that looks like
    it's under water than that boring old-fashioned black-and-white format. Now I
    know what I've been doing wrong all these years - I must tap into my vibrational
    frequency and do something about my dynamism on the page; two things that I didn't
    even know about until now. \r\n\r\nThank goodness he's out there giving us the
    benefit of his knowledge.\r\n\r\nIt's strange that he gave no mention of taste
    and discernment.\r\n\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2008-02-07 13:32:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"strange that he gave no mention of taste and discernment\"\r\n\r\nYou can't
    show what you don't have!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-07 14:33:46'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>It\u2019s strange that he gave no mention of taste and discernment.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's
    because he has none.\r\n\r\nI'm dealing with a client who also has none - he is
    the product of market research and focus groups. It's incredibly frustrating because
    he can't have a plain old reaction to anything, it's all about whether that approach
    has been successful in the marketplace. We're talking about cookbook design here,
    not branding strategy. The editor mentioned she liked the design of the Dean &
    Deluca cookbook and his reaction was: that's a great brand. Which misses the point."
  created: '2008-02-07 14:44:56'
- author:
    name: design guild
    picture: 113418
  body: "Drew\r\ndesign guild\r\n\r\nWhat sort of work should we expect from his followers?\r\n "
  created: '2008-02-07 16:21:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "The guy makes the point that plain traditional book typography leaves the
    text open to interpretation, and doesn\u2019t allow the author to specify the
    exact points they feel are important. It\u2019s interesting that this criticism
    is leveled at holy books \u2013 any crackpot can read any interpretation they
    like into a given text. Taken to its extreme maybe we should do away with books
    completely and have a series of bulleted lists, or better yet a PowerPoint deck?"
  created: '2008-02-07 16:54:22'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The guy makes the point that plain traditional book typography leaves
    the text open to interpretation, and doesn\u2019t allow the author to specify
    the exact points they feel are important.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis guy is the ultimate
    argument against postmodern typography."
  created: '2008-02-07 17:10:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hey wait a minute, isn't this GOOD NEWS for designers!!!!\r\n\r\nI mean,
    it's not like we just get to design *one page* for a paltry fee, and then an editor
    dumps text into the format to fill up the rest of the book.\r\n\r\nNow we get
    to apply design leverage to <em>EVERY PAGE</em> in the product, and that means:
    <strong>MORE MONEY.</em>\r\n\r\nSo why ya'll bitchin'?!?!! </strong>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-07 19:10:57'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Nick made me realize what is really going on here: this is an AIGA guerrilla
    marketing scheme. But they have to keep it secret, which explains why my membership
    dues  got me some nonsense about ethnographic research producing a left-handed
    cup holder.\r\n\r\n<strong>;b</strong>"
  created: '2008-02-07 19:18:30'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "God Nick. This all makes me think about this nutty marketing guy at a college
    textbook publisher I worked for. He came in with this intro Spanish book and had
    the on-staff book designers create every single page as if the whole project was
    one big Dynamite magazine. This book eventually consumed a full third of the design
    staff, designing and redesigning for more than two years. When it was finished
    the whole thing flopped.\r\n\r\nI'm afraid there is a perception that for children
    to learn the entire universe must resemble a box of Lucky Charms.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    we will all evolve until the phone book comes in 200 volumes and every entry resembles
    a MySpace page."
  created: '2008-02-07 20:26:15'
- author:
    name: andyclymer
    picture: 110580
  body: "Another one from the same conference,\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Kge4Os4gghI\r\n\r\nSkip
    ahead to about 4 minutes. From her bio:\r\n\r\n<cite>Val is the first (and still
    the only) female writer in 500 years to design a font for her own books, called
    booklady\xAE</cite>\r\n\r\nAnyone care to dispute this claim?\r\n\r\nAndy"
  created: '2008-02-07 21:56:47'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "one word: lithos\r\n\r\nzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz"
  created: '2008-02-07 22:37:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Seems to me there have been several women type designers in the past 50 years.
    Perhaps the deal is that none of them designed fonts purely for the purpose of
    setting a book they had authored. I'll just bet that hers is just so special though
    (the book and the face) :-)\r\nI am REALLY digging \"BookLady Passionate;-P \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-07 22:45:56'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>I am reminded of music in the 1980s - I liked songs and had my own interpretation
    of them - and all of a sudden there was MTV. I felt sorry for the generation growing
    up with that music - they would never be able to go into their minds and see what
    could emerge.</em>\r\n\r\nSo true, Jackie.\r\n\r\n<em>Personally, I am not about
    to sit down with a picture book \u2014 and have \u201Cpop-ups\u201D come into
    my life. I block them on the net - and I will block them in my reading.</em>\r\n\r\nHave
    you seen the commercials for Blu-Ray DVDs? More pop-ups!"
  created: '2008-02-07 22:46:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'How many male writers have designed fonts for their own books? Not many.
    Anyway how about Gudrun Zapf-von Hesse?  '
  created: '2008-02-07 22:48:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Damn, Si, I am having enough trouble finishing a typeface, now you want me
    to write a book to print it with, too? Let's see, I will set it in Froggy Passionate
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-07 22:52:52'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Oh my <strong>GOSH</strong> -- Tom <em>Peters</em> as an <em><strong>EXAMPLE</strong></em>
    of good <strong>book</strong> DESIGN. Wow... Now I've <strong>SEEN</strong> <em>everything</em>!!!
  created: '2008-02-07 22:54:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Good point Si.\r\nCan't think of too many books written by the person who
    designed the type.\r\nWilliam Morris, of course. Several of his fantasy works,
    and poetry too.\r\n\"Goudy's Type Designs\" is written by him, and set in his
    Italian Old Style. Does that count?\r\nDidn't Eric Gill publish the odd tract
    set in Perpetua?\r\n\r\nScott Richardson, creative director at Random House Canada,
    has recently written a novel--but I don't think he designed it. Unless one is
    self-publishing, this sort of thing can be tricky, politically!\r\nhttp://www.quillandquire.com/authors/profile.cfm?article_id=7544"
  created: '2008-02-07 23:19:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "After gradually recovering from the tramua of viewing most of this, I started
    googling to get the story on this crew. The leader seems to be this Kirchenbaum,
    who says in a self-published interview that she never had an art or design lesson
    in her life and is bad at dealing with technology. \r\n\r\nShe teaches middle
    school in New York City. \r\n\r\nThe target of her 'Beyond Guttenberg' book are
    self-publishers like herself, who don't know anything about design and want to
    learn. This talk, though, was given to the National Speakers Association, which
    has nothing to do with either design or publishing. It was basically showing off
    their skills in BS--oops I mean public speaking. \r\n\r\nThe guy in the video
    posted by Patty is I don't know who. The contact person at Stunning Books (they
    sure stun me!) who supposedly is her publisher is called Martin Rimm. Perhaps
    the other videos mention who the speaker is, if not him. \r\n\r\nI don't know
    if it's the same guy, but there is a Martin Rimm who was an engineering undergrad
    at Carnegie Mellon who in 1995 wrote an infamous research report about internet
    pornography, which got into the Georgetown Law Review. But though referred to
    by Time Magazine and quoted in Congress, it was so bogus that it led to an inquiry
    and criticism by the Carnegie Mellon faculty. This same Martin Rimm seems to be
    the author of the book \"The Pornographer's Handbook: How to Exploit Women, Dupe
    Men, & Make Lots of Money\".\r\n\r\nI find all this information strangely reassuring.
    So Patty, you might breathe a little easier, as I have, knowing that in all likelihood
    this crew has never been hired by anybody to design anything. \r\n\r\nI have some
    snake oil that I might contact them about selling, though.  \r\n  "
  created: '2008-02-07 23:44:48'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: I don't think the the Martin Rimm of stunningbooks.com is the porno dude.
    In one of the videos he mentioned that he had been a student of Milton Glaser
    [sic]. Anyhoot, another woman involved in this is Ruth Rimm (wife?), and I found
    [[http://www.sys-con.com/read/342420.htm|this stunning press release]] about her
    endeavours into postmodern [sic] design.
  created: '2008-02-08 00:33:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'The dedication to investigative journalism exhibited by typophile members
    warms my heart - keep up the good work. These people need to be exposed. '
  created: '2008-02-08 01:02:41'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>Didn\u2019t Eric Gill publish the odd tract set in Perpetua?</em>\r\n\r\nCertainly,
    quite a few."
  created: '2008-02-08 01:26:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">In one of the videos he mentioned that he had been a student of Milton Glaser\r\n\r\nThe
    site goodbyegutenberg.com also quotes Milton Glaser as saying of the book: \"Bursting
    with information and ideas!\" \r\n\r\nCall me a cynic, but I don't believe it.
    \r\n"
  created: '2008-02-08 01:54:47'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\u201CBursting with information and ideas!\u201D \r\n\r\nThe yellow pages? "
  created: '2008-02-08 02:25:06'
- author:
    name: chn
    picture: 109857
  body: "<em>\"Dear Friend,\r\nI am a high school teacher at a public school in the
    Bronx, not a salesperson, so I can\u2019t give you a \"sales pitch\" here. I can
    only tell you a little more about this first edition, what makes it so special,
    and why at this price it is an amazing bargain\".</em>\r\n\r\nI thought this quote
    about her <em>Goodbye Gutenberg</em> book was funny after watching her video."
  created: '2008-02-08 02:31:32'
- author:
    name: Scalfin
    picture: 114154
  body: "This person should take a lesson from comic books: you do not put text directly
    on an image.\r\nI've though about how one might do this, as I have considered
    creating something between comic and fully textual, but I can't think of any reliable
    way.\r\n\r\nImages are a boon for things that are presented factually, and the
    writers of such works should take a lesson from scientific articles and use plentiful
    pictures, diagrams, sketches (this one is also good for first person accounts
    before the creation of popular photography, when sketching was considered a crucial
    skill), and charts."
  created: '2008-02-08 04:42:26'
- author:
    name: e_roc
  body: "Excuse me for just jumping in here, but I can't resist commenting on something
    like this. Apparently, Milton Glaser really likes this Goodbye Gutenberg Book.
    \r\n\r\n\r\nhttp://www.atlasbooks.com/marktplc/01295.htm\r\n\r\n<cite> \"...what
    world renowned graphic designer <strong>Milton Glaser</strong> described as 'the
    visual history of the universe and its relationship to writing.' \"\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Bursting
    with information and ideas.\"\r\n<strong>Milton Glaser,</strong> world renowned
    graphic designer\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nugh."
  created: '2008-02-08 04:42:31'
- author:
    name: design guild
    picture: 113418
  body: "As a snotty Canadian I could not help but note their distribution strategy...\r\n\r\n\"This
    special limited first edition of Goodbye Gutenberg is being made available to
    United States customers only.\"\r\n\r\nHmm pity."
  created: '2008-02-08 07:09:38'
- author:
    name: daniele capo
    picture: 113718
  body: Futurist Typography in the Age of Electronic Reproduction.
  created: '2008-02-08 09:39:27'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: '"There''s a new one born every minute" is what comes to mind most.'
  created: '2008-02-08 10:29:57'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Among her many accomplishments, she is the first female writer in 500 years
    to design a font for her own book\"\r\n\r\n???"
  created: '2008-02-08 13:58:00'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "How old is Milton Glaser, again?\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-02-08 14:11:32'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>How old is Milton Glaser, again?</cite>\r\n\r\nNot old enough to have
    a senior moment like that!\r\n\r\n<cite>This special limited first edition of
    Goodbye Gutenberg is being made available to United States customers only.</cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe
    Canadian customs has started confiscating really tacky stuff."
  created: '2008-02-08 14:59:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Maybe Glaser was taken out of context with \u201CBursting with information
    and ideas.\u201D?\r\nIf you add some more words the meaning changes quickly:\r\n\u201CBursting
    with information and ideas...\u201D which make you want to throwup!\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS:
    Milton must be 30 years older than I am and that makes him quite capable of a
    senior moment :-)"
  created: '2008-02-08 15:07:45'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> Maybe Canadian customs has started confiscating really tacky stuff.\r\n\r\nThey
    confiscate everything, even my font books. Then they hold them for $5 ransom,
    plus the 12 cents duty owing."
  created: '2008-02-08 15:31:50'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "If you can trust www.biography.com they say Milton Glaser was born in 1929.
    That puts him at 79 years young.\r\nhttp://www.biography.com/search/article.do?id=9312923\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-08 17:37:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I guess he must only be 15 years older than I am then, Jackie. He just looked
    so much older when I saw him since I was 32 at the time :-)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-08 17:43:06'
- author:
    name: Ingrid Paulson
    picture: 112587
  body: "<cite>Scott Richardson, creative director at Random House Canada, has recently
    written a novel\u2014but I don\u2019t think he designed it. Unless one is self-publishing,
    this sort of thing can be tricky, politically!</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, Kelly Hill designed
    his book. As Scott is her boss, it was difficult. He's VP Creative at Random House
    Canada, which includes his publisher, Doubleday. What they did was rearrange everything
    so that he didn't design any Doubleday titles for that season - nor attend any
    cover meetings, nor sales conference, so as to keep the author/publisher relationship
    on the same level as it would be for a regular author.\r\n\r\nStill, Kelly knew
    that one of Scott's favourite fonts was Filosofia... insider info."
  created: '2008-02-08 19:37:30'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "I can already see Kafka's Castle, set in comic sans with large papyrus callouts
    on glitter-sprinkled pink. \"It's dinamic and sensual, establishing a clear hierarchy
    of meaning and unifying the otherwise disjointed narrative with contextual bullet
    points. It is engaging, informative, distinct and memorable. We are building up
    a Kafka brand.\"\r\n\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-02-10 02:59:23'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "So, uh Patty? What led you down this pathway to begin with? Planning on joining
    the cult?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hat_6543.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-10 08:45:26'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I hear the Koolaid is delicious.\r\n\r\nActually I was checking out something
    else font-related on YouTube and it was there in the \"Related Videos\" column.
    Was intrigued by the title and then... ye gods. I couldn't get through the whole
    thing."
  created: '2008-02-10 15:17:48'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Ivan,\r\n\r\nSuppose we make Kafka a group project. That way, we can include
    a \"wave\" on each page and allow the type to meander -- even Kafka would have
    enjoyed that!"
  created: '2008-02-12 12:58:42'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "If someone teaches this guy the phrase \"graphic design\" his mind is going
    to be BLOWN. \r\n\r\nHis message appears to be: \"If you are a bad writer and
    you don't want your audience to think, then... use fonts... and also page layout
    and graphic design techniques, but nevermind all that.\" Motivational, self-help,
    exploitation garbage books in a nutshell. So weird, this self-help for the self-helpers.
    May they all get what they wish for. "
  created: '2008-02-12 17:25:48'
date: '2008-02-06 18:00:07'
title: Book Design in Hell

---
