---
author:
  name: Eluard
  picture: 114004
body: "I've just been setting some text in Garamond Premier and was struck by the
  fact that it looks *nothing* like Adobe Garamond \u2014 in fact it seems to have
  proportions on the page that are more like Sabon (viewed macroscopically, if you
  like).\r\n\r\nWhat do you guys think? Is this really a better Sabon?\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Well, since Sabon was designed to work (look) about the same when set with
    a Linotype linecaster, a Monotype (metal) machine, or hand-set foundry type, I'd
    say, no, it is not a better Sabon.
  created: '2008-02-07 03:57:34'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Charles \u2014 are you saying it's a *worse* Sabon. :)\r\n\r\nOr that I am
    out of line making the comparison at all?"
  created: '2008-02-07 03:59:30'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I'm not really saying either -- though in some ways, comparing the two is
    like comparing Roger Federer with Rod Laver. Neither font is quite in that exalted
    class perhaps, but you get the idea.\r\n\r\nFor me, Sabon was one of the few really
    good fonts available for the Linotron 202 to use for book-length text. It wasn't
    used so much with the earlier Linotype linecaster technology. To my eye, Janson
    was the \"really good\" linecaster font, but Janson with the 202 was quite poor.
    And for whatever reason, PostScript Sabon doesn't quite succeed.\r\n\r\nI haven't
    used Garamond Premier Pro yet. None of our customers has requested it, and I am
    not looking forward to fixing all the kerning needed for book work, so haven't
    specified it in one of my designs. I do wish it has a set of long descenders;
    the foundry font seems to have even shorter descenders than the older Adobe Garamond."
  created: '2008-02-07 14:57:13'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Why would you need long descenders for book design in particular? I'm just
    curious if they aid in legibility, or if it's a stylistic decision.\r\n\r\nAnd
    what kind of kerning fixes for book work are you talking about? This is also an
    interesting question. Is there something in general that typically needs tightening
    up?"
  created: '2008-02-07 22:27:22'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "As to the long descenders -- my belief is they've always been used for book
    work, even back in the linecaster days. Short descenders were for newspapers &
    magazines. But there were always more linotype machines sold to newspapers, so
    the *standard* fonts were for those customers and had short descenders. Makes
    commercial sense.\r\n\r\nKerning fixes are as much loosening as tightening. They
    include single to double quotes; kerning for superiors used in note calls, both
    with themselves and with the punctuation they most often follow (quotedblright,
    period, comma) and a few letters. I also don't happen to like much foundry kerning
    with spaces -- where an f+ space has a positive kern, but is a smaller value than
    the negative kern with space + quotedblleft, so the *sum* is that the quotes  beginning
    a world are closer to that \"f\" in the preceeding word than to the word where
    the quote begins. Stuff like that. Better to make a terminal \"f\"  & write a
    contextual substitution than to kern it with a wordspace. Etc. etc.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    single quote marks (raised & turned commas) are often too tight from the foundry
    (for my eye), and are used for other purposes than signaling a quote or apostrophe
    (e.g., glottal stop, pharyngeal frictive, etc.). And period & commas are used
    with number strings as well as sentences, & on & on.\r\n\r\nI've rarely claimed
    that foundry kerning is outright wrong; there are different points of view as
    to how things should look, even for bookwork -- and bookwork is a small, specialized
    market, I am told. Our books have a certain look, and that is part of what our
    customers pay for. I would note that our small shop -- six people -- has turned
    out more books that got in to the AAUP Book Show than any other shop, from 1991
    to date. With that, I can conclude that whatever we're doing, it does no harm.
    \r\n\r\nBTW, we did a book a while back where I didn't do the work to the font
    & the comp had to do a series of search & replaces. It takes me about 25 hours
    to rework the roman & italic. It took the comp 4 hours to do the series of S&Rs.
    That means the seventh time we use a font family I've worked over ahead of time,
    we're money ahead. \r\n\r\nFWIW"
  created: '2008-02-07 23:03:12'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Wow. That's interesting. If you happen to get some free time, yeah right,
    it would be really cool if you could put together either a tutorial about what
    you're talking about, or just a series of examples that others could work from.\r\n\r\nI'm
    new to kerning and spacing myself, so I want to learn all that I need to make
    professionally spaced type. \r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\nAs to the original question
    about Adobe Premier Pro vs. Adobe Garamond vs. Sabon, I think the difference that
    is being noted is that Adobe Garamond has been significantly \"smoothed down\"
    from the other two. It has less \"bite\" to it, and it is noticable when set as
    a complete page. \r\n\r\nOne of my college newspaper designs used Garamond Pro
    for body copy, and one time I did switch it out for Premier Pro, just to see if
    anyone noticed. They did, but not a single person in the room could figure out
    what was different :)"
  created: '2008-02-07 23:09:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Charles, have you ever considered collaborating with a foundry on font development?\r\nWe
    may have to compromise over the length of slashes, but please contact me offline
    if you're interested."
  created: '2008-02-07 23:42:17'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Once upon a time ... I hope I get this right ... Robert Slimbach went to
    the Plantin Moretus museum and took thousands of photos of the Garamond types
    (and I'd imagine other good stuff). He then went back and started work on what
    became Adobe Garamond. Still seen today as an excellent typeface for (from?) its
    time. Fast forward through until a couple years ago. Technology has advanced.
    His skills have increased ten-fold. He revisits his research and out pops Garamond
    Premier Pro. GPP is not a revival of Adobe Garamond. Garamond Premier Pro is what,
    I believe, Robert originally hoped to do with Adobe Garamond but for whatever
    reason is, instead, what we have today. Optical sizes for size appropriate usage.\r\n\r\nSabon
    is a lovely face. But it leaves me cold. It is too crisp and cold. Especially
    compared to Adobe Garamond and, even more so, Garamond Premier Pro."
  created: '2008-02-07 23:49:13'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Maybe crisp is the term I was looking for? Adobe Garamond certainly wouldn't
    be described as \"crisp.\"\r\n\r\nBut being \"authentic\" doesn't always mean
    better, and I'm sure that AG is better for some uses that GPP.\r\n\r\nI wonder
    what circumstances would call for one over the other? "
  created: '2008-02-07 23:58:15'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I am still getting used to using GPP having used AG for so long. But with
    new project I don't hesitate to use Garamond Premier Pro because I know all of
    my (optical) needs are met.\r\n\r\nTyfa*, Sabon, Scala Serif ... probably more
    ... all of these faces are overly sharp and better for advertising and magazines
    (when crisp can help with the shout) and letterpress (when they soften up a bit).\r\n\r\n*Although
    I'm totally guilty of using Tyfa for a series of books. But,  now when I see it
    it is just too sharp on the page."
  created: '2008-02-08 00:08:12'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Tyfa*, Sabon, Scala Serif ... probably more ... all of these faces
    are overly sharp and better for advertising and magazines (when crisp can help
    with the shout) and letterpress (when they soften up a bit).</cite>\r\n\r\nI <cite>think</cite>
    I know what you mean; I think of it more as \"anemic\" than \"sharp,\" but probably
    the same root cause.\r\n\r\nBit of a story. We have set the <cite>South Atlantic
    Quarterly</cite> since the early 1980s. It first went from Times Roman (unknown
    designer) to a redesign by Mary Mendell using Pilgrim. You could get Pilgrim from
    Linotype for the 202, & I always felt it was Gill's best text font. Linotron 202
    Pilgrim needed lots of kerning, but that's a different story. \r\n\r\nWhen we
    were ending our use of the 202 & moving to PostScript fonts in the early 1990s,
    there was no PostScript Pilgrim. What to do? Mary redesigned the journal again
    using Scala, which kept much of the flavor of Pilgrim. This was before printers
    were accepting PDF files, and as we used TeX, they weren't about to get application
    files from us. We ran out the journal on repro paper & pasted it up the old-fashioned
    way.\r\n\r\nFinally came PDF files & direct-to-plate printing. All of a sudden,
    the type looked anemic. It also looked too sharp. I scanned in samples of the
    printed journal, both repro-negative-plate and direct-to-plate, and compared them
    side by side. It didn't take too much work to get back the look of the repro-negative-plate,
    which must have been what Martin Majoor was looking at anyway, since there was
    no direct to plate printing when he cut the type.\r\n\r\nSo which is the \"right\"
    Scala? Maybe both; it is just a different look depending on different needs. It
    is impossible for a foundry to anticipate the uses their fonts will be given.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-08 02:51:15'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Interestingly, nobody mentioned the fact that Jan Tschichold's Sabon was
    based on actual Garamond types... Which was new at the time, since most of the
    available Garamond types, then, were drawn after a specimen which was wrongly
    attributed to Garamond.\r\n\r\nI know this doesn't add anything to the conversation,
    but I thought it was nice to remind it to anyone who doesn't know it yet, if any.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-02-08 12:02:10'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Charles \u2014 these are fascinating comments and, like DanGayle, I feel
    I'm learning a lot. The idea of creating a special terminal f and making it contextual
    is a great idea, and would solve a lot of problems with digital setting. Can you
    mention one of your books, maybe one where you used either Bembo or some Garamond,
    where you feel that the setting is particularly good? I'd like to have a look.\r\n\r\nI
    also agree with you, here and elsewhere, about the short ascenders and descenders
    of GPPro. It was, in fact, this that made me make the comparison with PS Sabon.
    The subjective impression is of a heavy, stumpy font with not much elegance but
    a lot of readability \u2014 a serviceable font. It is being used quite a bit by
    Oxford University Press at the moment and it looks ok without looking \"beautiful\".\r\n\r\nI'll
    stick my neck out here: I think that much that has been said about whether a particular
    font is a historically accurate revival has to do with focussing on too few points
    of comparison e.g the axis and the characteristics of the serifs. But in the small
    face sizes used in books these are micro features of the letterform. The macro
    features of a letterform \u2014 the things which just jump out at you from the
    page \u2014 are the x-height, the relation of lowercase to the capitals, and the
    lengths of the ascenders and descenders, and these are allowed to vary **wildly**
    between the *historically accurate* revivals of Renaissance fonts. Sabon looks,
    on the page, completely unlike AGPro \u2014 if both are deemed historically accurate
    then something has gone very wrong with our ideas of historical accuracy.\r\n\r\nThomas
    Phinney remarked on some thread (sorry, I've forgotten where that was now) that
    AGPro was the more historically accurate of the two Slimbach Garamond creations.
    Looking at a page set in both, I agree with him.\r\n\r\nbest\r\n\r\nEl."
  created: '2008-02-09 00:14:00'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Sorry, to clarify, where I say \"It is being used quite a bit\u2026\" I mean
    Sabon, not GPPro."
  created: '2008-02-09 00:16:54'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Can you mention one of your books, maybe one where you used either
    Bembo or some Garamond, where you feel that the setting is particularly good</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    can't think of a title offhand, but wife recently designed, & her company set
    a book called <cite>An Introduction to Manuscript Studies</cite> that used my
    Bembo. The paper isn't ideal (wasn't her choice), but given the many plates it
    was a reasonable compromise. Anyway, it uses Bembo with a terminal \"f.\"\r\n\r\nIf
    I can remember, I'll try to post a sample showing the sidebearings when I go into
    work tomorrow.\r\n\r\nThere are other uses for such a \"f,\" BTW. What I usually
    do is shorten up the terminal and increase the right sidebearing, which is just
    what an \"f\" needs when followed by a vowel with an umlaut. If you finesse it
    just right, it will work with vowels that carry a grave accent -- except for an
    accented \"i.\"\r\n\r\nOr you can go whole hog & make up a number of \"f's\" --
    one for a terminal, & others for a following vowel carrying an umlaut, grave,
    etc. occur. I don't write code anywhere near as well as a lot of the people who
    post on the forums, & that probably limits what I think of.\r\n\r\nMy terminal
    \"f's\" are just that, and are switched only when white space follows, not a period
    or comma. I don't kern punctuation that tight. But if you do, you just write a
    class & switch it for that. For the f-grave vowels, I tend to make extra ligatures,
    but someone clever could probably do it all with fewer glyphs. "
  created: '2008-02-09 01:31:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Apart from its modified proportions, GPP isn't \"historically accurate\"
    because it's too slick. It doesn't parse the irregularities and bounce of letterpress
    printing. And it's got kerning.\r\n\r\nBut it's not meant for recreating facsimiles
    of Renaissance documents, is it?\r\n\r\nPoliphilus was better able to mimic the
    documents from which it was derived than Bembo, but Bembo was created to improve
    upon mere similitude.\r\n\r\nThe idea of \"historical accuracy\" as a feature
    or benefit of a typeface is just so much marketing BS, unless it isn't ashamed
    to be a little rough around the edges.\r\n\r\nTake your pick, do you want to listen
    to Beethoven on a fortepiano or a pianoforte?\r\n\r\nIt has beeen possible for
    several years, with OpenType contextual alternates, to make fonts which duplicate
    the inconsistencies of old letterpress printing, but the thinking seems to be
    that people don't want that kind of Garamond, or that MvB Celestia Antiqua is
    best, a most obvious distress rather than something that just looks a bit off
    the pace.\r\n\r\nFunnily enough, as Goudy recounted concerning his creation of
    Garamont in 1919, many of the folk at Lanston Monotype didn't have much faith
    in his wonky interpretation, but it sold like hot cakes. It's still my favourite
    Garamond--in magazines from the 1920s.\r\n\r\nUltimately, I don't believe historical
    accuracy is a meaningful concept, it's all interpretation. \r\n\r\n\"The task
    of renovating or recreating a design from old impressions is the most difficult
    of all. The effect of impressing upon damp paper, of worn type, and of the spread
    of ink, have to be reckoned with; and great skill is needed if, while removing
    blurred outlines, the subtleties of the original engraving are not to be lost.\"
    --Stanley Morison, <em>A Tally of Type</em>"
  created: '2008-02-09 01:56:29'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Yes, \"historical accuracy\" makes it seem as though you should able to linearly
    order the approximations to accuracy \u2014 and this is obviously completely wrong.
    \r\n\r\nBut if one thinks of nearness along several parameters for the features
    that are to be approximated then you can speak about accuracy along the parameters
    that you deem most significant. There is nothing wrong with <em>that</em> idea,
    that I can see. But of course there is then room for endless disagreement as to
    whether the features deemed most significant really are the most significant,
    and you might say that such disagreement is subjective."
  created: '2008-02-09 02:49:39'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "<em>but wife recently designed, & her company set a book called An Introduction
    to Manuscript Studies that used my Bembo. </em>\r\n\r\nThanks for that Charles.
    I can see from the web that the cover of the book is mightily impressive. Can
    I ask: have you ever done any books of poetry that are worth looking at?"
  created: '2008-02-09 03:05:15'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Sabon looks, on the page, completely unlike AGPro \u2014 if both
    are deemed historically accurate then something has gone very wrong with our ideas
    of historical accuracy.</cite>\r\n\r\nEluard -- I don't believe that Sabon was
    intended to be \"historically accurate.\" Tschichold likely had some goals of
    historical similitude, but I'm sure these were quite secondary to all the technological
    constraints of the brief.\r\n\r\nWith regard to the vertical proportions of Sabon
    (vis-a-vis \"original\" Garamond), designs in the 20th century, whether for foundry
    metal or for machine composition, conformed to a few standardized alignments.
    This means that for any given point size, the baseline was set as a specified,
    standardized location on the body, effectively limiting the proportion of ascent
    and descent. The relative x-height was still discretionary, but the descender
    length was essentially fixed.\r\n\r\nPrior to the adoption of Standard Alignment,
    different fonts of the same size set on the same line were not guaranteed of having
    a common baseline.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-09 13:31:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Surely some foundries bucked the standard and produced types with long descenders?\r\nSnooty
    book types, I would guess, not bred to mix with o\u03B9 \u03C0\u03BF\u03BB\u03BB\u03BF\u03AF."
  created: '2008-02-09 17:00:03'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I'm told modern Greeks pronounce that \"ee poliee,\" and the ancients \"oi
    poloi.\"\r\n\r\nBut anyway, here is a screen shot of the terminal f. If I were
    really doing it up brown, I'd make a special ligature -- move the grave to the
    right some, while not moving, or not so much -- the \"a\". But this passes, I
    think, and the terminal works as intended. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bembof_5968.gif]"
  created: '2008-02-09 17:06:46'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Synonyms:\r\nCommoners, great unwashed, huddled masses, masses, multitude,
    plebians, proletariat, rabble, rank and file, riffraff, the common people, the
    herd, the many, the masses, the working class\r\n\r\nNew phrase to add to the
    memory banks. Thanks Nick!"
  created: '2008-02-09 17:07:02'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>Thomas Phinney remarked on some thread (sorry, I\u2019ve forgotten
    where that was now) that AGPro was the more historically accurate of the two Slimbach
    Garamond creations. Looking at a page set in both, I agree with him.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm
    quite certain I would have said the opposite. I don't know whether I used the
    phrase \"historically accurate,\" but I'll certainly grant that whether or not
    I said that, the more precise phrase would have been the the letterforms are closer
    to Garamond's originals. Heck, Rob even based the different optical sizes on specific
    sizes of Garamond's original types.\r\n\r\nI find the forms of GPP more idiosyncratic
    and less carefully balanced than AGP. (I could write a whole mini-essay on balance
    in letterforms and how one's ideas on the topic might evolve as one's skills improve....)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-02-09 19:22:41'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Yes, do! Don't hold back on secrets from "the inside". A mini-treatise on
    the Slimbach Way would be nice :)
  created: '2008-02-09 19:42:40'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Nick --\r\n\r\nYes, of course you're right. In foundry type, some designs
    came to be cast on what was called Art Line, which was a different standard alignment
    than Standard Line. But a standard nonetheless, and so it does fix the proportion
    allotted to the descenders. \r\n\r\nFor Linotype machine casting, they got around
    it by requiring the long-descender versions to be cast upon a larger line (i.e.,
    leading was mandatory in order to cast a line including these sorts). So, for
    instance, a 12-point design might be created on 12-pt alignment, but then the
    descenders would extend beyond the 12-point body. But rather than call these 13-point
    designs (which would have required a different alignment), they are 12-point fonts
    which must be cast on 13-point body. A little confusing, yes? Took Dwiggins a
    couple explanations from Griffith to get how to design for this.\r\n\r\nMy point
    to Eluard was that various standards fixed descenders in certain ways and this
    may account for why ascender/descender proportions might have been <cite>\"allowed
    to vary **wildly** between the *historically accurate* revivals of Renaissance
    fonts.\"</cite>\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-09 20:24:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks for the clarification Kent.\r\n\r\nDid the relative position of the
    standard baseline vary with size?\r\nIt seems to me that the smaller the type,
    the lower the line."
  created: '2008-02-09 20:42:39'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "<em>I\u2019m quite certain I would have said the opposite. I don\u2019t know
    whether I used the phrase \u201Chistorically accurate,\u201D but I\u2019ll certainly
    grant that whether or not I said that, the more precise phrase would have been
    the the letterforms are closer to Garamond\u2019s originals. </em>\r\n\r\n\r\nDammit,
    I knew that I'd be forced to find that comment of Thomas's. Here it is, it is
    from 2007:\r\n\r\n\"Personally, I don\u2019t feel Garamond Premier renders Adobe
    Garamond obsolete. The former is a more restrained and modernized interpretation,
    and the latter is a more directly authentic revival. There\u2019s room for both,
    and more besides.\"\r\n\r\nSo \"directly authentic\" rather than \"historically
    accurate, but apart from that\u2026\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-10 09:48:48'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Nick -- The short answer is Yes. I think I have a comparative graph or something
    somewhere. It might take some digging, but if I can find it I'll try to post something.\r\n\r\n--
    K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-10 14:24:34'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Oops, I simply reversed \"former\" and \"latter\" in that original comment
    back in 2007. Sorry about that. But trust me, it makes *way* more sense if you
    flip it around. Sorry I didn't catch it at the time.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-02-10 19:12:06'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Nick -- \r\n\r\nHere is the diagram I was thinking of. This is taken from
    <cite>Letters of Credit,</cite> p. 49, where Walter Tracy discusses the pros and
    cons of the standard. (And as you can see, he took it from a Stephenson & Blake
    catalog.)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PointLine_diagram_5388.gif]\r\n\r\nAs
    you can see, the relative placement of the baseline was not a simple proportion.
    Another part of the concept of Standard Line (also called Point Line) was that,
    not only would different fonts of the same size base-align when set alongside
    one another, but different sizes could be aligned easily using leads of incremental
    points. \r\n\r\nD.B. Updike explains this in his discussion of Standard Line on
    p. 35 of <cite>Printing Types</cite>:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"The convenience of being
    able to align different sizes of type by the use of 1-point leads or their multiples
    is no doubt appreciated by the compositor; but to make this possible, types below
    18-point are arranged, so far as 'line' is concerned, in but three groups: in
    the first are 5 and 6-point types; in the second, 7 to 10-point types; and in
    the third, 11 to 16-point.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nBoth Tracy and Updike bemoan the prevailing
    late-19th-century taste that established the set baseline so that descenders were
    given such short shrift. Updike again: \r\n\r\n<cite>\"Taking the second group
    for illustration, the 'descenders' of g, j, p, q, and y can be no longer in a
    10-point than in a 7-point face; and as they are none too long in 7-point they
    become much too short in 10-point.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nLater, into the 20th century,
    as tastes reverted back to longer descenders for book faces, various workarounds
    to the shortcomings of Standard Line were developed; but the standard remained
    a technical parameter that influenced the vertical proportions of type up to the
    photo era.\r\n\r\n-- Kent.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-10 23:05:20'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Kent \u2014 this is very helpful, thank you. It explains a lot."
  created: '2008-02-11 00:11:29'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Kent, that makes a lot more sense when you explain it then it did when I read
    it in <em>Letters of Credit</em>.
  created: '2008-02-11 01:04:25'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: This discussion makes me wonder, though, why digital revivals have kept up
    the tradition of short descenders. Is it <em>just</em> tradition now, or do the
    standard settings of apps like Word somehow enforce it?
  created: '2008-02-11 03:38:12'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Apps like MS Word use the font's bounding box to determine default line spacing,
    but I wouldn't consider that a cause of short descenders, particularly.\r\n\r\nDigital
    revivals of typefaces that were originally designed on standard line tend to inherit
    those limitations. Revivals of older typefaces don't necessarily.\r\n\r\nLooking
    at the proportions of Adobe Garamond Pro, Garamond Premier Pro Regular and Garamond
    Premier Pro Display, I see that Rob's designs optimized for 11-12 point would
    slightly exceed the \"standard line\" and GPP Display's descenders would exceed
    the standard line depth by a good 40% or so.\r\n\r\nI guess typefaces like GPP
    would need to have been cut on \"art line\" instead. That was what they called
    it, right? Anybody have a handy chart for \"art line\" like the one Kent posted
    for \"standard line\"? I don't see any details on the \"art line\" in a quick
    perusal of \"Letters of Credit.\"\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-02-11 06:54:42'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I've never encountered a similar chart for Art Line, but one could probably
    be derived from an ATF specimen -- ATF Garamond for instance. I might create one,
    if I can spare an hour or so. No promises.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-11 14:19:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Is it just tradition now, or do the standard settings of apps like Word
    somehow enforce it?</em>\r\n\r\nIf one is discussing revivals, they are by nature
    conservative, so the designer is unlikely to go out on a limb with unusually long
    descenders.\r\n\r\nThe new historicist faces of the 1920s had more extreme proportions,
    but Bernhard Modern and Koch Antiqua had teeny descenders!\r\n\r\nToday, digitally
    unconstrained, even when designing an original old style face, I haven't made
    long descenders. Frankly, I find it difficult to make the \"g\" and \"y\" look
    comfortable when low slung. I look at Perpetua, in which those characters are,
    IMO, a bit too attenuated, and think, long descenders, why bother?\r\n\r\nAnother
    question: why make all descenders the same depth? Some types have a \"g\" or \"y\"
    which is nowhere near as low as \"p\" or \"q\". Same thing with \"f\" -- it can
    be made quite a bit taller than \"l\", \"k\", etc.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-11 18:40:20'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Sorry it isn't Garamond, which would be more on-topic, but here is what I
    did for descenders with Bembo. Reworked on the left, foundry of the right -- again,
    remember this is for text-size setting only, so the glyphs have been re-weighted
    a bit over the foundry release. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/descenders_5673.gif]
  created: '2008-02-11 20:42:42'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Ah, I found the remake I did for Adobe Garamond, back in the Type 1 version.
    Compared to AG Pro, which is pretty similar, I believe. The re-worked descenders
    on the left, foundry on the right, but letter by letter this time. Looking at
    it, the "g" needs some help. I have no doubt Mr. Slimbach would have done a much
    better job, which is why I really wish the foundry would include them. FWIW[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AGdes_4046.gif]
  created: '2008-02-11 22:23:47'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Thanks Charles \u2014 in both cases I prefer your mods, particularly in the
    second case I think \u2014 though that may just be because the weights are more
    directly comparable. I take it you slotted your mods into the expert set."
  created: '2008-02-11 22:38:49'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Eluard,\r\n\r\nNo, not an expert set. With type 1 fonts, we used TeX running
    in a DOS box, and so were not limited by the Windows OS. I made up fonts having
    all appropriate glyphs in them -- in many ways, our Type 1 fonts looked like current
    OT fonts, except they were name based. We would write a different encoding vector
    when we needed other glyphs -- actually, you could, on the fly, make up temporary
    fonts & have two or three fonts from my database font -- one having small caps,
    one having tabular old style figures, one having proportional oldstyle figures,
    etc.\r\n\r\nWe even had something like OT features, but these were run using a
    program we called PreTeX on the TeX (ASCII) files. The program was font-specific
    (really, it had a place where you could plug in an extra set of routines for specific
    fonts), and so get roman to italic kerning, etc -- things we can't yet get with
    standard OpenType features. But the downside was that PreTeX put hard codes in
    the files, so when you had to make an XML file later, there was a lot to strip
    out. And (our) TeX's color management was a nightmare for anything but grayscale
    images. Finally, \"our\" implementation of TeX was the creation of my business
    partner, Larry Tseng, & both he & I are getting old. We needed to move to a system
    where he & I weren't absolutely required, so OpenType and InDesign seemed to fit
    the bill.\r\n\r\nBut there is nothing in these ideas that can't be implemented
    in OpenType, and much of it more easily."
  created: '2008-02-11 22:59:36'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Nick \u2014 one place where long descenders (and ascenders) look right is
    in the setting of poetry. In different threads here I posted two images taken
    from poetry books published in Italy in 1945\u20136, one fronm Einaudi and the
    other from Mondadori. They are strikingly elegant and show the art of setting
    poetry in a way that complements the text (using contextual alternatives for certain
    double letters that occur frequently in Italian, like rr and cc). The Einaudi
    used Linotype Estienne and the Mondadori used Monotype Pastonchi. Both are elegant
    fonts with longer than usual descenders.\r\n\r\nI can't think of too many poetry
    books that have been published in the digital age that look well-designed. Faber
    books are particularly unsuccessful, I think, but then I don't know that they
    were very good pre-digital. The best that I've seen have come from the U.S. (Hotel
    Lautr\xE9amont by John Ashbery is one of the best.)\r\n\r\nI think the problem
    of setting poetry well has been much exacerbated by the stumpy digital fonts that
    are designed with magazines in mind. There is room for alternatives in the market
    place."
  created: '2008-02-11 23:10:32'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Hi Charles \u2014 I feel your pain over the TeX stuff! I must have spent
    two or three years encoding fonts so that they could be used in LaTeX, with automatic
    use of alternates, full ligatures, etc. Endless running of fontinstall, endless
    checking over the script that was to encode them, pouring over the afm files to
    see where the glyphs are. rerunning for tweaking the kerning, etc. Now, I feel
    that I'm just too old for that stuff and want to run XeLaTeX on Opentype fonts
    and have everything nice and simple (even if I miss out on the customizability!)"
  created: '2008-02-11 23:41:06'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Thomas -- Here you go. I reconstructed an estimation of Art Line. I assumed
    that some of the same underlying considerations were in play regarding mixing
    sizes on a line. But it only worked if I allowed half-point increments.\r\n\r\nThis
    is my best guess and may or may not be entirely correct.\r\n\r\nI didn't have
    the same range of samples to work with (I have a proof of several sizes of ATF
    Garamond l.c. alphabet). In an effort to make the chart roughly comparable to
    the Point Line diagram, I inserted \"blanks\" for samples I didn't have (and guesstimated
    their alignment). \r\n\r\nIt was only when I went to resize this to match the
    Point Line post that I realized that the original diagram wasn't actually proportional
    -- that is, the 24-pt block is not twice as high as the 12-pt, and the 6-pt is
    more than half the height of the 12-pt, etc. So it's not the accurate comparison
    I'd hoped for. One would have to reconstruct the Point Line diagram from the numbers
    to see how the progressions really compare. (Which I'm not inclined to spend time
    doing ;-)\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ArtLine_reconstruction_3769.gif]"
  created: '2008-02-12 15:25:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Eluard -- The long descenders in the poetry specimen you showed are not consistent.
    The \"g\" for instance is shorter than the \"p\".\r\n\r\nThe problem for the type
    designer is that while it's possible to drop the vertical stem of \"p\" indefinitely,
    and still have a round bowl, once you lower the g beyond a certain point it begins
    to look condensed. Gill tackled this in Perpetua by adding the distance in the
    bridge of the \"spectacles\", avoiding condensing the \"eyes\" but nonetheless,
    as I said, the proportions still look odd to me.\r\n\r\nI'm afraid I can't agree
    that long descenders are graceful, which is surely the desired epithet for classic-style
    poetry setting, they look  disproportionate to me.\r\n\r\nI don't think long descenders
    are out of the question, but you can't just tack them on, it has to be part of
    an overall theme.  \r\n\r\nOswald Coooper's \"Packard\" design comes to mind.
    The style of lettering he originally developed for the Packard ads in the early
    'teens had well integrated long extenders. However, when the font was derived
    in 1915, they were reined it, for reasons of the standard line. You can see how
    Oz solved the issue of the g in his original lettering, by making it somewhat
    monocular. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/packard_5817.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-12 21:55:45'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Nick \u2014 yes, I take your point about the g and about unevenness in the
    extenders being no bad thing. The lower part of the g is so massive that it doesn't
    need to be extended downwards to the same extent as the p and q. The y could also
    be considered separately, as the diagonal makes evenness undesirable.\r\n\r\nI
    feel that I've learned a lot from this discussion. Thanks.\r\n\r\n(ATFs predictions
    of the longevity of the Packard certainly didn't come true!)"
  created: '2008-02-13 01:00:11'
date: '2008-02-07 02:48:39'
node_type: forum
title: Garamond Premier

---
