---
author:
  name: ebensorkin
  picture: 109987
body: Anybody know a Bremer Presse font with the alternative "r" and "e"? I was reading
  about Blumenthal's font Spiral (Later Emerson with monotype) which, before Monotype
  sold it, had an r with a short arm and another with a long arm. But in the book
  it mentions that Blumenthal was very influenced by ideas about paper and type that
  were in vogue at the Bremer Presse. And that the Bremer Presse had a font with the
  alternative "r" and "e". The book is called "American Proprietary Typefaces", and
  the section was written by Jerry Kelly. Actually if anybody has info on how to contact
  him that would be great too.
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "As far as I know, no one has made a digital version of the Bremer Presse
    type designed by the printer publisher Will Wiegand. If someone has, I think I
    might prefer not to know about it, because I quite like the idea of private press
    typefaces remaining what they were -- the exclusive working tools of the people
    who made them or commissioned them to be used in very particular ways in specific
    books.\r\n\r\nI have a couple of Bremer Presse books, though, Eben, and have scanned
    the 1922 12pt roman, which includes the variants to which you refer. I had not
    noticed this feature of the types before, so thank you for drawing my attenion
    to it. Interestingly, only the 12pt has them: the 1924 11pt does not.\r\n\r\nThe
    differences between the variants are quite subtle. I'm afraid I would need longer
    to track down examples of the individual variants in use, so we could determine
    in what contexts they were used.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bremer12_3906.jpg]\r\n\r\nIn
    the earlier, 1913 16pt there are variants for a f i and t, but not for r. The
    variant i is particularly interesting: the difference is in the size of the dot,
    and I'm guessing that one is for use after the non-ligating f. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bremer16_6743.jpg]\r\n\r\nThere
    are also similar variants in the eccentric Bremer Presse Greek type."
  created: '2008-02-08 04:26:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: PS. Note the question mark shape, also seen -- and much detested by some people
    -- in the Schneidler Antiqua types.
  created: '2008-02-08 04:28:50'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks very much! This is terrific.\r\n\r\nThese examples are quite wonderful.
    What I am struck by is the multiple t glyphs with their various cross bar lengths.
    They make a great deal of sense to me. I agree the double i makes sense as well
    in the context you mention. As do the double f's and perhaps especially the a's.
    The a corresponds very nicely to what I have seen H. Zapf do in his calligraphy,
    and 15th century scribes do as well. \r\n\r\nIn the book I mentioned above it
    was stated that the long r in Spiral was supposed to be set to make an over-lose
    justified line set better. The example I saw didn't suggest that to me at all.
    Instead they seemed to use the long r as a calligrapher would; setting it at the
    end of words. The short one was used next to other letters on the right. John,
    have you see the seen the book I an talking about? If not, would like to see the
    Spiral?\r\n\r\nI have requested the book shown in the sample ( RW Emerson's \"Nature\")
    but I don't know yet if I get get it. \r\n\r\nInterestingly Erik S talked about
    the utility of the ck & ch glyphs shown in the same here. Also there are two kinds
    of them. That have to be for a reason. I would like to see why they are so useful
    in general and why they would require two kinds. Maybe it was for cultural/linguistic
    reasons rather than optical ones. At the moment I don't have enough insight into
    that.\r\n\r\nIt niggles at me that \u201CAmerican Proprietary Typefaces\u201D
    is very clear about a second e but none is here. Could this be an incomplete showing?
    Or an early one; prior to the second e? Could there be another Bremer Presse type
    font/face with that feature?\r\n\r\nIt would be great if somebody would quote
    us a title so we could get ahold of it and see this face at work. Maybe we could
    get Dan to find one in Germany or Paul to dig one up at Reading..."
  created: '2008-02-08 08:43:08'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "My first thought: I wouldn't want to be the one to have to sort the i's back
    into the cases!\r\n\r\nWould these alternate sorts be marked on the type for that
    purpose?"
  created: '2008-02-08 12:37:50'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Craig, maybe it's just early, but I don't follow your question. Cold you put
    it another way?
  created: '2008-02-08 15:31:02'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'I just meant, with such subtle differences in the letterforms on these metal
    types, it would be very difficult to know which i is which when putting the sorts
    back in the case (assuming that you would want to file the one kind of i in one
    box and the other in another). But then I thought it''d be practical to have some
    marking on the type body itself -- a nick, or hole, or painted side, or engraved
    symbol or the like -- that would aid this process. '
  created: '2008-02-08 15:51:04'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I see. Yes that makes sense.\r\n\r\nJohn, do you think these faces were cast
    by Bauer?"
  created: '2008-02-08 16:20:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Eben: <em>It would be great if somebody would quote us a title so we could
    get ahold of it and see this face at work.</em>\r\n\r\nThe two Bremer Presse volumes
    I have, one about the press and one publication of the press, are <em>Die Bremer
    Presse: K\xF6nigin der deutchen Privatpressen,</em> 1964, and <em>Albii Tibulli:
    Elegiae</em> 1920. The latter is set in the 16pt type, with elegant initial letters
    and titles by Anna Simons, who did a lot of work for the Bremer Presse.\r\n\r\nA
    quick perusal of the latter book indicates that the variants of i were, in fact,
    interspered freely, and not used contextually. It would be interesting to compare
    this setting with earlier use of the type, including initial specimens if available,
    to see whether the different i characters were originally contextually selected.
    Maybe they were, and Wiegand later decided that it wasn't worth the trouble."
  created: '2008-02-08 16:28:30'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Very interesting. If they were never contextually selected -- do you know
    of any precedent in metal type of designed alternates intended to be mixed in,
    presumably to give the printed copy a more varied, perhaps handlettered appearance?
    We've seen digital fonts that introduce randomness to gain that effect, but I
    never considered that metal types might have done something similar. Might this
    have been a kind of compensation for the improved consistency in the casting technology?
  created: '2008-02-08 16:38:37'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "In general I don't think these extra sorts were to introduce randomness at
    all. Quite the opposite. I think they are there to produce a deliberately better
    optical fit. John, your theory may be right. It sounds pretty plausible. There
    is not a TON of difference in the i shapes. And if they didn't take the precaution
    Craig imagined then they might easily have been mixed.\r\n\r\n<cite> Might this
    have been a kind of compensation for the improved consistency in the casting technology?
    </cite> I don't think that was the idea. But I also don't think introducing a
    gentle noise into the forms would be an utterly bad idea. I think some gentle
    variation is pleasant for the brain/eye."
  created: '2008-02-08 16:55:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>do you know of any precedent in metal type of designed alternates intended
    to be mixed in, presumably to give the printed copy a more varied, perhaps handlettered
    appearance?</em>\r\n\r\nWilliam Dana Orcutt, discussing the design of his Humanistic
    type in <em>In quest of the perfect book,</em> writes 'I decided to introduce
    the innovation of having several characters for certain letters that repeated
    most frequently, in order to preserve the individuality of the hand lettering,
    and still keep my design within the rigid limitations of type'. I'm not sure when
    the Humanistic type was first used, but Pankow's <em>Proprietary American Typefaces</em>
    shows a setting from 1906. Here is a sample from Orcutt's book:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/OrcuttHumanistic_6246.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-08 18:13:00'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: This is really interesting. I find myself wondering how I would have set it
    differently. The g sort kills it. I admit I like the idea up to a point but I
    was building variation I would sooner see it more subtle a within a given deliberate
    fitting. Thanks very much for showing this also.
  created: '2008-02-09 03:39:28'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Wasn't this concept of alternates also part of some of the earliest fonts
    used in the incunabula? I seem to recall something about several variants for
    many, if not all, Gutenberg's letters -- the idea being to better emulate the
    work of the scribes in an effort to \"sell\" the new technology to those who were
    accustomed to variability in their manuscripts. \r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-09 13:36:29'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: FWIW, the variation in Gutenberg's letters is explained by [[http://www.open2.net/home/view?entityID=15589&jsp=themed_learning%2Fexpanding_viewer&sessionID=-1202564568669&entityName=object|these
    guys]] as resulting from his casting each letter from a unique mold, rather than
    a reusable matrix.
  created: '2008-02-09 13:47:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'The Gutenberg 42-line Bible also shows evidence, as explained by Hermann
    Zapf, of variant letters as an aid to justification: letters of different width
    are used to maintain consistent letter and word spacing. Zapf had the idea to
    do the same thing dynamically, by intelligently scaling glyphs horizontally without
    distorting them or changing stem weights. This was implemented by URW as part
    of the Hz text layout engine, but not currently active in any shipping software,
    so far as I am aware.'
  created: '2008-02-10 03:27:42'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Actually - there is one software package that does that and many other things,
    but not as an aid to composition. It''s the RMX ( Font Remix Tools ) for Fontlab
    by "Just Another Foundry". I have been meaning to try it & to read about people''s
    reaction to it on Typophile. Maybe soon.... '
  created: '2008-02-10 09:37:19'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: The methods differ, I think. According to a brochure, the hz Program would
    need a single master for this, and adjust certain glyphs' widths only if a line
    requires this (let's call this 'dynamic'). RMX needs two masters, and does its
    job on a production level (thus producing a 'static' result).
  created: '2008-02-10 16:58:48'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Good point!
  created: '2008-02-10 21:16:42'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "For the alternate 'f' in the 1913 Bremer Presse I do have a possible idea.\r\nThe
    second one with the longer crossbar might have been used at the end of words.\r\n\r\nI
    came to such a design decision in one of my font concepts (not digitalised [yet?])
    as a contextual alternative (i.e. giving the f a longer crossbar before space,
    period and comma for better balance). -- And I guess I was not the first one to
    have this idea (while I did not see it anywhere else before).\r\n\r\nInvestigating
    the actual use of the 1913 f-s would be interesting!"
  created: '2008-02-11 10:16:05'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I am trying to get a printed sample of Spiral and of Bremer Presse Roman
    via Interlibrary loan. If successful I will let you know what pattern of use I
    find. \r\n\r\nSzabolcs, extending the bar at the end of a word sounds like something
    I would try as well. And I might draw it back next to a flat letter. Maybe.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-11 10:33:00'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I talked to Jerry Kelly today and he filled me in a bit more. He suggested
    that perhaps: \r\n\r\na) the \"e\" in the bremer example may simply be on a different
    body width, or\r\n\r\nb) the \"e\" may be on the 16 pt. \r\n\r\nHe was also able
    to confirm that this Antiqua is the face in question.  \r\n\r\nHe also mentioned
    that Wili of the Bremer Presse  would explain these things unusual features in
    his type by referring back to the Gutenburg."
  created: '2008-02-11 17:25:10'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Oh, what do I see there? Speaking of alternate e-s and r-s in Bremer Presse:
    an alternate 'e' in the Georgia font as well! (Its use demonstrated in the name
    of Gutenberg)\r\n\r\n;-)))"
  created: '2008-02-12 18:12:20'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Here is a scan of the two \"r\" s  in Spiral. This is a photo reproduction
    not an actual piece of letterpress. It's in \u201CAmerican Proprietary Typefaces\u201D.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2r_3496.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-12 21:39:27'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'I got a xeroxed copy of the setting Of Emerson''s Nature with Spiral yesterday.
    Absolutely contrary to what was stated in APT the use of the long "r" is exclusively
    at the end of words. The short r is used inside words. What I am not seeing is
    the long & short "r" used to help justify a line. It''s use might be different
    later but this was it''s fist use and I think the full measure of zeal and intention
    in it''s use by Blumenthal is likeliest here. Moreover it works extremely well
    which is gratifying to me because my theory of contextual shapes ( and scribal
    tradition ) predicts this use rather than the use suggested by APT. '
  created: '2008-02-23 00:54:41'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "And now a Bremer example. In print, it's actually quite subtle - believe
    it or not.\r\n\r\nI should also note that it's use is not the same as in Blumentahl's
    Spiral in Emerson's Nature. As you see a long & a short used inside a word. I
    am wondering now was it line density that determines it's use or the letter shape
    on the right... or some combination.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/long_6348.and.short.r2.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-23 09:52:55'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: In the last example (eru) the narrower 'r' makes the whitespace less (disturbing)
    between the seriffed 'u' and itself. In the (ere) you don't have "too much" whitespace
    with the long r-form, because of the shape of the 'e'. If that was understandable.
  created: '2008-02-25 16:55:59'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Agreed. And I think that's why with narrower spacing more standard you see
    the narrower type of r become dominant in the 20th century. Of course if you take
    this too far the r ends up too narrow and it's saliency is reduced. I have seen
    some fonts where this is clearly a problem. Also how you space the letters will
    determine the ideal shape of the arm of the r. Unfortunately there is no script
    to let the arm shirk or expand with setting. But clearly a wider setting would
    make a wider arm feel better or more acceptable. Also when you have an r at the
    end of the word there cannot be too much white space because there is no next
    letter, and the full sized arm on the r looks and reads the best I think. That
    is what I think the example of Spiral above shows.
  created: '2008-02-25 19:49:35'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'I have just got a copy from the library of the Typography papers from 1997,
    #2. In it is an article about Bremer Presse. It turns out there is even more alternatives
    than we knew discussed so far including an s and a t. I will not give a synopsis
    yet. Moreover you may want to see the article yourself.'
  created: '2008-03-01 02:01:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I'd entirely forgotten about the essay in <em>Typography Papers,</em> Eben,
    thanks for reminding me. I have this, but have not looked at it for, well, a decade.
  created: '2008-03-01 02:38:26'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Your welcome!
  created: '2008-03-01 07:37:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Yes, very clever. I like the way that diagonals have been driven out of the
    lower case.\r\nBut there is always the problem of T_h and W_h, which create holes
    anyway, and these holes stand out even more when everything else is smooshed into
    greyness."
  created: '2008-03-01 20:45:46'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: You are talking about the Bremer type I think. Correct? The example I was
    looking at until yesterday ( i had to return it) was all in Latin. I did keep
    wondering what a w or v or k would do to the nice texture. As far as the Th I
    think they may have had a ligature. I'll check. I imagine they would have used
    a W with the right side in an arc to maintain the texture... and to maintain the
    style.
  created: '2008-03-10 19:39:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "In <em>Alphabets to Order,</em> Alastair Johnston notes that the classic
    type specimen text (Quousque tandem abutere etc.) was in Latin, without the diagonals,
    and hence, as he termed it, IIRC, \"prime beef\".\r\n\r\nAnother \"cheat\" in
    the old specimens (and one which I am presently reviving!) was to set justified
    copy, but without hyphens, and without even breaking words in the correct place,
    which produces nicely even text."
  created: '2008-03-10 20:43:24'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: That makes sense.
  created: '2008-03-10 21:35:34'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "What do toy think of this? It is supposed to be Circa 1650 or so\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tworshapeshighlight_3986.jpg]\r\n\r\nIt
    is plate 19 in \"Catalogue of specimens of printing types by English and Scottish
    printers and founders, 1665-1830\""
  created: '2008-03-17 16:33:11'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "A bigger image is here \r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/ebensorkin/2340146147/sizes/o/\r\n\r\nAnd
    Tiff's comment & mine are here\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/ebensorkin/2340146147/\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-17 16:43:42'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Nick\u2014<em>Another \u201Ccheat\u201D in the old specimens (and one which
    I am presently reviving!) was to set justified copy, but without hyphens, and
    without even breaking words in the correct place, which produces nicely even text.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    have to assume that you've never heard of Jost Hochuli or seen the amazing <a
    href=\"http://www.youworkforthem.com/product.php?sku=P0026\">book of his work.</a>
    \ In this book are examples of type specimens he designed (I think for phototype
    machines?) using the technique you describe\u2014they are really beautiful. I've
    <a href=\"http://www.klim.co.nz/newzald_samples.php\">also used it</a> a few times!
    It surely is an excellent technique to achieve perfect justification.   \r\n\r\n(Sorry
    for the derail, Eben)"
  created: '2008-03-17 19:55:52'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: No prob dude!
  created: '2008-03-17 20:28:35'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Very nice scanned material!\r\nThanks for showing it.\r\n\r\nIf I wouldn\u2019t
    be afraid that the world seems to be going to collapse\r\nI would have even more
    fun. :-(\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2008-03-18 11:22:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I have to assume that you\u2019ve never heard of Jost Hochuli</em>\r\n\r\nI
    read an article about him in <em>eye</em> a few years ago. I don't recall him
    using that technique.\r\nBut you're right, I can't really *revive* something that's
    never passed away!\r\n(How then is it possible to revive a typeface that has already
    been revived?)"
  created: '2008-03-18 13:54:01'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> How then is it possible to revive a typeface that has already been
    revived? </cite>\r\n\r\nGood point. Type terminology is massively arbitrary much
    of the time."
  created: '2008-03-18 14:40:47'
- author:
    name: Ludwig Mohr
  body: "Get a copy of a book printed at the Bremer Presse, open a page spread and
    look at it.  Turn the whole book 180 degrees, Look again.\r\n\r\nOptical spacing,
    \ the finest work done by any Press of that time period.  "
  created: '2011-05-22 19:33:22'
- author:
    name: Ludwig Mohr
  body: "oops. optical justification, not scaling.\r\nThe Bremer Presse by design
    restricted the number of Fonts they used. A Folio page (Bible, Tacitus) could
    take a day to set, and these were the most skilled typesetters in their Time.\r\nThe
    BP was a private Press in the true sense of the word, as it was not a commercial
    enterprise, if you look at the Cranach press and how financially draining it was
    on Kessler, you get an idea about the BP.  Fritz Krinitz (Frieda Thiersch und
    ihre Handbuchbinderei) worked with Frida Thiersch at the BP.\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-22 19:57:49'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Thanks very much Ludwig!
  created: '2011-05-30 03:38:31'
date: '2008-02-08 01:10:09'
title: Anybody know a Bremer Presse font with the alternative "r" and "e"?

---
