---
author:
  name: Dan Gayle
  picture: 111595
body: "I'm working on a font that has multiple ligs, and I'm running into a problem.
  I have <code>l_l</code> and an <code>e_l</code> ligs, set up like so:\r\n\r\n<code>sub
  l l by l_l;</code>\r\n<code>sub e l by e_l;</code>\r\n\r\nOstensibly, the order
  should make the <code>l_l</code> come <em>before</em> the <code>e_l</code>, but
  this is what I get:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture-2_4400.png]\r\n\r\nAny
  suggestions?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "The problem is that 'el' in the sequence comes before 'll', despite the order
    written in the feature code. \r\n\r\nSo that means that I need to write a contextual
    something or another that says, \"If the string el is followed by the string ll,
    do NOT substitute the e_l ligature.\"\r\n\r\nI know it can be done, I just don't
    know how to do contextual stuff."
  created: '2008-02-09 22:08:04'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: For now I've just eliminated the e_l lig, if only temporary.
  created: '2008-02-09 22:08:49'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "why <em>liga</em> and not <em>clig</em>?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-09 22:16:14'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "It has nothing to do with contextual stuff. Just replace the l with another
    l (that looks the same) so that when ell occurs l_l is 'taken' and e_l can no
    longer be processed.\r\n\r\nIf you want, I can send you the thing I'm working
    on right now. It covers more or less the  same thing.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/code_4912.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/HTTZ_4996.gif]"
  created: '2008-02-09 22:20:29'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "That would be cool. dan at dangayle dot com\r\n\r\nBut the explanation belowy
    tells why I'll keep looking:\r\n\r\n@david hamuel\r\n<cite>why liga and not clig?</cite>\r\nHonestly,
    I don't know how to use that feature. But I have a semi- script type with about
    100 ligs going on, some with alternates, so it might be handy to know. I've already
    ran into two situations like this, so a better solution is needed that won't require
    multiple redundancies."
  created: '2008-02-09 22:43:42'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> I don\u2019t know how to use that feature. But I have a semi- script type
    with about 100 ligs going on, some with alternates, so it might be handy to know\r\n\r\n\r\nBickham
    Script Pro (feature file sample): \r\n\r\nhttp://www.adobeforums.com/webx/.3bb7c828/0
    \   \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-09 22:51:40'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: Dan, ygm. I made a new (FontLab) doc with just your liga thing. I think it
    works.
  created: '2008-02-09 23:02:47'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: '** edit ** double post'
  created: '2008-02-09 23:06:44'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Although Jos' approach also works, Dan is quite right to say that this can
    be solved by contextual code, too. Personally, I'd consider that simpler and more
    elegant than adding an extra glyph, though both approaches work.\r\n\r\nSo, you
    want the l_l ligature to take precedence over the e_l ligature. There are probably
    at least three ways to do this in AFDKO/FontLab code. Here's one:\r\n\r\nignore
    sub e' l' l\r\nsub e l by e_l\r\nsub l l by l_l\r\n\r\n(Note: I haven't time to
    test this right now, but I *think* it should have the desired effect.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-09 23:15:17'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: Thomas, that would be an elegant solution. I was not familiar with this 'ignore
    command' so I've tried this, but I really can't get it to work.
  created: '2008-02-09 23:31:38'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "You do not necessarily need contextuality. You could as well use two (or
    more) lookups to get the same effect:\r\n\r\nIn a first step, create a lookup
    explicitly and put your substitution statements into it. In the example below,
    this would be the \"thenThese\" lookup. If, in your tests, you find that particular
    statements should have priority but are not executed because others interfere,
    create another lookup above the existing one, then place the higher-priority substitutions
    in it. In the example, this is the \"theseFirst\" lookup. I think two or a maximum
    of three lookups should do, it depends how complex matters are in your font:\r\n\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;lookup
    calt {\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;lookup theseFirst {\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;sub
    l l by l_l;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;} theseFirst;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;lookup
    thenThese {\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;sub
    e l by e_l;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;} thenThese;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;}
    calt;\r\n\r\nYour test word suggests that these ligatures are essential part of
    the design rather than optional, i.e. there is no need to allow a user to switch
    them on/off. In so far 'calt' is a good choice. Also, 'clig' is one of the features
    which different applications <em>may</em> handle differently (either in a UI option
    of its own, or bundled with another feature in a common UI option), so it may
    be safer to avoid such features where possible. (This is a personal comment. Others
    may disagree.)\r\n\r\nWhat's missing in the 'ignore' example is that following
    substitutions need to be contextual too:\r\n\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;lookup
    calt {\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ignore sub e' l' l;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;sub
    e' l' by e_l;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;sub l' l' by l_l;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;}
    calt;\r\n\r\n(This is one of my most frequent errors ...) However, for some reason
    this still doesn't work in the FLS preview. Haven't tested with a compiled font
    yet."
  created: '2008-02-10 00:34:17'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Ok, got it. Despite the ignore statement you'd still need two separate lookups:\r\n
    \r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;feature calt {\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;lookup
    standardWithExclusion {\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ignore
    sub e' l' l;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;sub
    e' l' by e_l;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;} standardWithExclusion;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;lookup
    highPriority {\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;sub
    l' l' by l_l;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;} highPriority;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;}
    calt;\r\n\r\nNote that in contrast to the first example in my last post, the lookup
    with standard substitutions is the first (not last) one. First, the ignore statement
    in the first lookup makes sure that e l is <em>not</em> substituted by the e_l
    ligature if another l follows. Then, the second lookup is applied to the text
    string which still contains individual l l and can substitute these by the l_l
    ligature.\r\nWhile the ignore statement can be pretty powerful, in your case it
    complicates matters more than necessary because for every substitution in the
    \"highPriority\" lookup, you would need to add an according ignore statement to
    the \"standardWithExclusion\" lookup.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2008-02-10 00:56:50'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Wow. Karsten, I have NO IDEA what any of that means :)\r\n\r\nWell, I understand
    a little. I just don't understand the why."
  created: '2008-02-10 01:09:35'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "The first example,\r\n\r\nlookup theseFirst {\r\n          sub l l by l_l;\r\n
    \      } theseFirst;\r\n       lookup thenThese {\r\n          sub e l by e_l;\r\n
    \      } thenThese;\r\n\r\nworked.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture-2_5876.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\nThe
    others wouldn't compile, giving me:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture-3_4477.gif]"
  created: '2008-02-10 02:46:08'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I can't begin to write code like you guys. But one tiny note: While \"calt\"
    is on by default, with InDesign, anyway, I believe you can turn it off, using
    the paragraph styles > OT features menu. If you turn it off with the basic paragraph,
    all paragraph styles based on that will also have calt off.\r\n\r\nStill, it is
    usually a good idea to make the comp take a conscious action rather than to depend
    on him/her to *remember* to take action. If you as the designer feel they should
    be on, put them in calt & make the comp do work to not use them."
  created: '2008-02-10 04:24:16'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "In the code, you need to replace quoteright/quoteleft by simple quotes. Typophile
    is just too smart ...\r\n\r\nIndeed, while 'calt'/'liga' are currently the best
    choices for substitutions to be on by default, they still can be switched off.
    Oh, and I must have been sleeping yesterday: since no contextuality is involved,
    'liga' is it."
  created: '2008-02-10 10:30:42'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "In OpenType Layout, each font has a list of little procedures called <b>lookups</b>.
    Those lookups are assigned to layout features. Typically, in simple Western OpenType
    fonts, one lookup is assigned to just one feature. But you also can have several
    lookups being assigned to one feature, and also one lookup being assigned to several
    features.  \r\n\r\nIt is important to realize that there are two separate lists
    of things in the font: one is a list of lookups and the other is a list of features
    (there is also the issue of languagesystems but I won't discuss it here). And
    then there are just mappings between those. The Adobe FDK for OpenType (AFDKO)
    syntax for writing OpenType Layout feature definitions, used by AFDKO itself as
    well as FontLab Studio and DTL FontMaster, hides this fact and makes you believe
    that you define the \"action code\" inside of feature definitions: \r\n\r\n<code>#
    AFDKO 1.6 / FontLab Studio 5 syntax</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature liga {\r\n  sub
    l l by l_l;\r\n  sub f i by f_i;\r\n} liga;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature swsh {\r\n
    \ sub f by f.swsh; \r\n} swsh;</code>\r\n\r\nThis is a simplified notation of
    the following: \r\n\r\n<code># AFDKO 1.6 / FontLab Studio 5 syntax</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    liga {\r\n  lookup L1 {\r\n    sub l l by l_l;\r\n    sub f i by f_i;\r\n  } L1;\r\n}
    liga;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature swsh {\r\n  lookup L2 {\r\n    sub f by f.swsh;
    \r\n  } L2;\r\n} swsh;</code>\r\n\r\nSo here, we have one lookup <code>liga1</code>
    that is assigned to the <code>liga</code> feature. If one lookup is assigned to
    just one feature, the AFDKO feature syntax allows omitting the <code>lookup</code>
    statement. But it is important to realize that it is still there, implicitly.
    \r\n\r\nActually, a more precise representation of how this information is represented
    in the font would be the following:\r\n\r\n<code># AFDKO 2.0-only / future FontLab
    Studio 6-only syntax</code>\r\n\r\n<code># Lookups</code>\r\n\r\n<code>lookup
    L1 {\r\n  sub l l by l_l;\r\n  sub f i by f_i;\r\n} L1;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>lookup
    L2 {\r\n  sub f by f.swsh;\r\n} L2;</code>\r\n\r\n<code># ...\r\n# Features</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    liga {\r\n  lookup L1;\r\n} liga;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature swsh {\r\n  lookup
    L2;\r\n} swsh;</code>\r\n\r\nThe lookup names (L1, L2) do not matter because they
    are not written into the font. Internally, lookups are just identified by numbers.
    You also can have several lookups being assigned to one feature: \r\n\r\n<code>#
    AFDKO 1.6 / FontLab Studio 5 syntax</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature liga {\r\n  lookup
    L1 {\r\n    sub l l by l_l;\r\n    sub f i by f_i;\r\n  } L1;\r\n  lookup L3 {\r\n
    \   sub e l by e_l;\r\n  } L3;\r\n} liga;</code>\r\n\r\nInternally, this would
    be written into the font as: \r\n\r\n<code># AFDKO 2.0-only / future FontLab Studio
    6-only syntax</code>\r\n\r\n<code># Lookups</code>\r\n\r\n<code>lookup L1 {\r\n
    \ sub l l by l_l;\r\n  sub f i by f_i;\r\n} L1;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>lookup L3
    {\r\n  sub e l by e_l;\r\n} L3;</code>\r\n\r\n<code># Features</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    liga {\r\n  lookup L1;\r\n  lookup L3;\r\n} liga;</code>\r\n\r\nYou can also have
    one lookup being assigned to several features: \r\n\r\n<code># AFDKO 1.6 / FontLab
    Studio 5 syntax</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature liga {\r\n  lookup L1 {\r\n    sub
    l l by l_l;\r\n    sub f i by f_i;\r\n  } L1;\r\n} liga;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    calt {\r\n  lookup L1;\r\n} calt;</code>\r\n\r\nThis corresponds to the internal
    structure: \r\n\r\n<code># AFDKO 2.0-only / future FontLab Studio 6-only syntax</code>\r\n\r\n<code>#
    Lookups</code>\r\n\r\n<code>lookup L1 {\r\n  sub l l by l_l;\r\n  sub f i by f_i;\r\n}
    L1;</code>\r\n\r\n<code># Features</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature liga {\r\n  lookup
    L1;\r\n} liga;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature calt {\r\n  lookup L1;\r\n} calt;</code>\r\n\r\nIn
    text formatting using OpenType Layout, each line of text is divided into \"runs\"
    of text that have the same formatting (i.e. font and combination of enabled OpenType
    Layout features) and directionality. In a typical European text, each line of
    text is just one \"run\", but if you have Arabic or Hebrew with interspersed European
    numerals or European phrases, those would be separate runs. \r\n\r\nEach run has
    a certain combination of features that will be applied to it (controlled by the
    user, e.g. <code>dlig</code>, as well as those that the layout engine applies
    automatically, e.g. <code>ccmp</code>). When the text is being displayed, each
    run is typeset using the default glyphs representing the text's characters (i.e.
    the glyphs that have Unicode codepoints assigned for those characters). Then,
    for some Asian scripts, special glyph reordering is being done (but not for European
    scripts). And then, the list of lookups is retrieved for the combination of features
    that are being applied. \r\n\r\nSo if I have a font with the OpenType Layout code
    defined as follows: \r\n\r\n<code># AFDKO 2.0-only / future FontLab Studio 6-only
    syntax</code>\r\n\r\n<code># Lookups</code>\r\n\r\n<code>lookup L1 {\r\n  sub
    l l by l_l;\r\n  sub f i by f_i;\r\n} L1;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>lookup L2 {\r\n
    \ sub f by f.swsh;\r\n} L2;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>lookup L3 {\r\n  sub e l by e_l;\r\n}
    L3;</code>\r\n\r\n<code># Features</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature liga {\r\n  lookup
    L1;\r\n  lookup L3;\r\n} liga;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature swsh {\r\n  lookup
    L2;\r\n} swsh;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature calt {\r\n  lookup L1;\r\n} calt;</code>\r\n\r\nAnd
    the features <code>liga</code>, <code>swsh</code> and <code>calt</code> are all
    applied to the text, then the OpenType Layout engine retrieves the list of the
    lookups associated with all those features (i.e. <code>L1</code>, <code>L2</code>
    and <code>L3</code>), and applies them. \r\n\r\nThe lookups are applied one after
    another to the entire run of text in the sequence the lookups have been defined
    in the font. So in the above example, first the lookup <code>L1</code> is applied
    to the default string of glyphs (because it is assigned to the <code>liga</code>
    and <code>calt</code> features). Let's assume that the user typesets the following
    text: \r\n\r\n<em>Hellenic figure</em>\r\n\r\nSo the default series of glyphs
    in the run would be: \r\n\r\n<code>H e l l e n i c space f i g u r e</code>\r\n\r\nThe
    lookup <code>L1</code> is \"executed\" on the run. It replaces the glyph sequence
    <code>l l</code> with the glyph <code>l_l</code> and it replaces the glyph sequence
    <code>f i</code> with the glyph <code>f_i</code>. So after the lookup as been
    applied, the glyph run looks like this: \r\n\r\n<code>H e l_l e n i c space f_i
    g u r e</code>\r\n\r\nThen, the lookup <code>L2</code> referenced by the <code>swsh</code>
    is applied to the glyph run. It replaces the glyph <code>f</code> with the glyph
    <code>f.swsh</code>. This does not produce any change in the text because the
    glyph <code>f</code> is not present in the glyph run anymore (as the <code>L1</code>
    lookup replaced it). \r\n\r\nFinally, the lookup <code>L3</code> is executed.
    It replaces the glyph sequence <code>e l</code> with the glyph <code>e_l</code>.
    This does not produce any change either, because the glyph sequence <code>e l</code>
    is not in the glyph run (we have the glyph sequence <code>e l_l</code>, but that's
    completely different). \r\n\r\nSo the final product of the processing is: \r\n\r\n<code>H
    e l_l e n i c space f_i g u r e</code>\r\n\r\nWhat if I change the order of the
    lookups defined in my font?  \r\n\r\n<code># AFDKO 2.0-only / future FontLab Studio
    6-only syntax</code>\r\n\r\n<code># Lookups</code>\r\n\r\n<code>lookup L2 {\r\n
    \ sub f by f.swsh;\r\n} L2;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>lookup L3 {\r\n  sub e l by e_l;\r\n}
    L3;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>lookup L1 {\r\n  sub l l by l_l;\r\n  sub f i by f_i;\r\n}
    L1;</code>\r\n\r\n<code># Features</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature liga {\r\n  lookup
    L1;\r\n  lookup L3;\r\n} liga;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature swsh {\r\n  lookup
    L2;\r\n} swsh;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature calt {\r\n  lookup L1;\r\n} calt;</code>\r\n\r\nThen,
    the lookup <code>L2</code> will be first applied to my default glyph run <code>H
    e l l e n i c space f i g u r e</code>. It replaces the glyph <code>f</code> with
    the glyph <code>f.swsh</code>, so after the first lookup has been applied, the
    glyph run looks like the following: \r\n\r\n<code>H e l l e n i c space f.swsh
    i g u r e</code>\r\n\r\nNow the lookup <code>L3</code> is applied, changing the
    glyph sequence <code>e l</code> into the glyph <code>e_l</code>, so the result
    is: \r\n\r\n<code>H e_l l e n i c space f.swsh i g u r e</code>\r\n\r\nFinally,
    the lookup <code>L1</code> is executed. It tries to replace the glyph sequence
    <code>l l</code> with the glyph <code>l_l</code> and the glyph sequence <code>f
    i</code> with the glyph <code>f_i</code>. None of those replacements will be carried
    out because those glyph sequences are no longer in the glyph run. So the final
    result of our processing is: \r\n\r\n<code>H e_l l e n i c space f.swsh i g u
    r e</code>\r\n\r\nOf course if only some feature were applied, e.g. only <code>calt</code>
    or only <code>calt</code> and <code>liga</code> but no <code>swsh</code>, only
    the appropriate lookups would be executed \u2014 but always in the sequence in
    which they are defined in the font. \r\n\r\nNote that in FontLab Studio, you cannot
    currently define the lookups outside of feature definitions. The lookups are defined
    inside of the feature definitions \u2014 explicitly using the <code>lookup</code>
    keyword or implicitly by just writing the substitution statements. When the AFDKO
    code is compiled into binary OpenType Layout tables, the lookups are compiled
    and stored in the font in the sequence they have been defined in the syntax, i.e.
    in the sequence the feature have been defined. So by reordering the features in
    the OpenType panel of FontLab Studio you actually change the order in which the
    lookups will be stored in the font. \r\n\r\nThis is extremely important for feature
    interaction. If you have one lookup that replaces the <code>f</code> glyph with
    the smallcap <code>f.smcp</code> glyph (this lookup is mapped to the <code>smcp</code>
    feature), and you have a lookup that replaces the glyph sequence <code>f i</code>
    by the glyph <code>f_i</code> (that lookup is used by the <code>liga</code> feature),
    you want to make sure that, when both features are applied, the smallcap lookup
    is executed first. Otherwise, you'd end up with a lonely <code>f_i</code> ligature
    sticking out of an all-smallcaps text. And the FontLab Studio method to make sure
    that the smallcap lookup is executed first is to place the <code>smcp</code> feature
    definition before the <code>liga</code> feature definition in the OpenType panel.
    \r\n\r\nThe task of writing good OpenType Layout feature definitions becomes somewhat
    challenging when you have complex feature definitions that involve many lookups,
    and you have a potentially large number of different interacting features. \r\n\r\nI
    recommend reading this article by John Hudson for further understanding of how
    OpenType Layout works: \r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/Glyph%20Processing/intro.mspx\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-10 11:02:12'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: '[Removed this post -- and changed its position ... -- since Adam''s description
    is <em>much</em> more detailed and exact. What I keep is the link to the <a href="http://www.adobe.com/devnet/opentype/afdko/topic_feature_file_syntax.html"
    target="_blank">Feature File Syntax</a>.]'
  created: '2008-02-10 16:37:39'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Wowsers.\r\n\r\nThanks Adam and Karsten!\r\n\r\nSo, if I have everything
    right, aside from cutting and pasting Karsten's code above, I should do multiple
    lookups under the same feature. Then each lookup is applied to the string of text
    in the order that the lookup is created.\r\n\r\nSo without cheating by looking,
    this is how I would accomplish my goal as set out above:\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    liga {</code>\r\n\r\n<code>lookup L1 {</code>\r\n<code>sub l l by l_l;</code>\r\n<code>}
    L1;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>lookup L2 {</code>\r\n<code>sub e l by e_l;</code>\r\n<code>}
    L2;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>} liga;</code>\r\n\r\nNo need to worry about contextuality
    then, since this definition makes <code>l_l</code> take precedence over <code>e_l</code>
    at all times. This is very helpful. Thanks again guys!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-10 16:57:21'
- author:
    name: Stephen Rapp
    picture: 111901
  body: "Dan, why not just create an e_l_l ligature as you like it and put it first
    in order.\r\nStephen"
  created: '2008-02-11 16:05:57'
date: '2008-02-09 20:28:53'
title: Ligature order

---
