---
author:
  name: peter.ricardo
  picture: 114218
body: "The following are some of the banes of my existence.\r\n\r\nWhy isn\u2019t
  [[http://www.dutchtypelibrary.nl/Elevir_rdrct.html|DTL Elzevir]], or [[http://www.dutchtypelibrary.nl/Fleischmann_rdrct.html|Fleischmann,]]
  available in OpenType? (Or at a feasible dollar price?) And why isn\u2019t the Font
  Bureau\u2019s [[http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Miller/charset|Miller]] available
  in OpenType? Didn\u2019t most foundries get their big sellers into OpenType several
  years ago?\r\n\r\nAnd Linotype: Why is your [[http://www.linotype.com/43290/baskervilleregular-font.html|Baskerville]]
  only available in your own unimpressive \u201CCom\u201D version of OpenType, which
  lacks all typographical features? Why is your [[http://www.linotype.com/56016/monticelloroman-font.html|Monticello]]
  not available in OpenType at all (and why is there no OpenType Pro version of your
  [[http://www.linotype.com/13450/timesroman-font.html|Times]] and [[http://www.linotype.com/12767/timestenroman-font.html|Times
  Ten]])?\r\n\r\nWhy can\u2019t you reissue the essential-but-tragically-spindly [[http://www.linotype.com/12775/newcaledoniaroman-font.html|New
  Caledonia]], or even [[http://www.linotype.com/13277/granjonroman-font.html|Granjon]],
  in proper new digitizations, as Monotype did with Bembo ([[http://www.fonts.com/findfonts/detail.htm?pid=420694&grab_id=0&page_id=30123&query=bembo%20book&SCOPE=Fonts|Bembo
  Book]])?\r\n\r\nWhen will [[http://www.typophile.com/node/20893|Williams Caslon]]
  be released?\r\n\r\nAnd hey there, Mark von Bronkhorst: What\u2019s up with not
  making [[http://www.mvbfonts.com/html/fonts/verdigris/pk_verdigris.htm|Verdigris]]
  available in OpenType?\r\n\r\nFinally, hello there, Mac OS X Leopard font people
  responsible for [[http://www.typophile.com/node/37122|fouling up the Typography
  panel]] in Pages and other applications that use Core Text\u2014how could you in
  good conscience release a supposedly finished product that generally fails to work
  at all, and breaks behavior from the previous OS release, with no detectible gain
  to the user? Then leave it on sale for months without an update? Do you really use
  Leopard yourselves?\r\n\r\nThis concludeth my rant. Thanks for letting me get that
  off my chest!"
comments:
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Hi Peter,\r\n\r\nwelcome to typophile.\r\n\r\n<cite>And why isn\u2019t the
    Font Bureau\u2019s Miller available in OpenType? Didn\u2019t most foundries get
    their big sellers into OpenType several years ago?</cite>\r\n\r\nWho claims Miller
    isn\u2019t available in OT? MyFonts? At least you can specify OT at <a href=\"http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Miller\">Font
    Bureau\u2019s website</a>.\r\n\r\nAnd for DTL: Yeah, that\u2019s a pity. Then
    again, DTL isn\u2019t a big foundry, so there are likely no big sellers.\r\nDemand
    determines supply. There\u2019s no conspiracy going on.\r\n\r\n<cite>And Linotype:
    Why is your Baskerville only available in your own unimpressive \u201CCom\u201D
    version of OpenType, which lacks all typographical features?</cite>\r\n\r\nUnimpressive
    to you, American sucker for ligatures and easy fractions! ;\xB0) Language support
    is a major typographical feature, too!\r\n\r\nWhat do you think of <a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/749/itcnewbaskerville-family.html\">New
    Baskerville</a>? Or Storm\u2019s <a href=\"http://www.stormtype.com/typefaces-fonts-shop/families-22-baskerville-original\">Baskerville
    Original</a>? They offer small caps and stuff.\r\n\r\n<cite>as Monotype did with
    Bembo Book</cite>\r\nYeah, but also available only since less than 3 years. Going
    Open Type is not just pressing some conversion button, is it?\r\n\r\nThat said,
    I understand your huff. The lack of standards is confusing and time consuming.
    But one has to bear in mind that fonts don\u2019t fall from the sky; they still
    have to be made by people \u2013 with limited time, and a certain focus."
  created: '2008-02-10 12:08:19'
- author:
    name: peter.ricardo
    picture: 114218
  body: "Hi Florian,\r\n\r\nThis was a product of late-night frustration! Thanks for
    listening.\r\n\r\nWith Miller and OpenType, you're right that I was generalizing
    from the other font resellers' pages: on their own site, there OpenType is as
    an option, at checkout. But since Font Bureau charges the same price for their
    OpenType version as for their TrueType and PostScript versions of Miller, and
    still segregate out special small caps and old-style figures fonts from the other
    packages, just as in PostScript, I am guessing that in this case 'OpenType' offers
    no more features than the TrueType version that is resold on, e.g., FontShop.\r\n\r\nMy
    deep love of OpenType (and especially OpenType Pro!) is, indeed, based on the
    raw pleasure of gaining easy access to small capitals, to both kinds of figures,
    and (if needed) to triple ligatures, with the easy ability to change between families
    altogether while retaining those settings. I wish Miller would join this revolution,
    since I adore the typeface.\r\n\r\nIf DTL hired a new web designer--their site
    at present seems to me an unnecessarily confusing and even ugly experience--and
    thought a little about the joys of selling lots of copies of its fonts at slightly
    lower prices, instead of selling a very few copies at higher ones, it would be
    a different world for them and for all the rest of us. Or if they would even let
    resellers offer their fonts for sale (or so much as reproduce images of them!)
    DTL seems sort of mixed up about the point of offering fonts for sale, which might
    be more to get people to use and benefit from them than to disappoint eager would-be
    purchasers.\r\n\r\nApropos of Linotype Baskerville: I know that language support
    is a major feature, it's just that I find it maddening and inexplicable that the
    best major-foundry Baskerville is still in such a limited format (even compared
    to most other offerings from Linotype).\r\n\r\nI have had Storm's John Baskerville
    for several years, and I am probably in a tiny, tasteless minority, but I actually
    find it awkward and almost inexpertly drawn, with noticeably strange spacing.
    The individual letter forms are appealingly swooshy and free, but the overall
    effect of a page set in John Baskerville is, for me, almost shudder-inducing.
    I am thinking of getting his Baskerville Ten in the hope it will be much better,
    though it probably won't (dating as it does to the same early year of his career).\r\n\r\nITC
    New Baskerville is fine. I just wish it were less sparkly and 'digital' looking.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    hopefully in time some of the people involved will pick up distant rumbles from
    the venting of frustration in venues like this one, and  some fine day we'll all
    inhabit a Shining World of OpenType!\r\n\r\nThanks again for listening."
  created: '2008-02-10 16:30:54'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>...My deep love of OpenType (and especially OpenType Pro!) is, indeed,
    based on the raw pleasure of gaining easy access to small capitals...</em>\r\n\r\nCertainly.
    From a type user's perspective, built-in smallcaps are a boon. But for type developers
    built-in smallcaps create a requirement for a complete second set of kerning values,
    as smallcap forms fit together rather differently to the way lower case forms
    fit together. It can be done but it's a pain in the rear end. It's a lot simpler
    and easier to make a separate smallcaps font.\r\n\r\nIf you're really sure of
    what DTL are doing wrong, put that into an email and send it to them. They'll
    just love being told by a disgruntled would-be customer how they should run their
    business.\r\n\r\n<em>I have had Storm\u2019s John Baskerville for several years,
    and I am probably in a tiny, tasteless minority, but I actually find it awkward
    and almost inexpertly drawn, with noticeably strange spacing. The individual letter
    forms are appealingly swooshy and free, but the overall effect of a page set in
    John Baskerville is, for me, almost shudder-inducing. I am thinking of getting
    his Baskerville Ten in the hope it will be much better, though it probably won\u2019t
    (dating as it does to the same early year of his career).</em>\r\n\r\nI think
    Storm's John Baskerville is meant to be that way. The faults you refer to are
    features, not bugs. Storm did his research on that one. It's authentic.\r\n\r\nOne
    of the bugbears I have with the so-called \"digital media revolution\" is the
    way it breeds uncompromising demand in users. If a digital product (software of
    one kind or another, whether it be a font or a proggie) does not perform exactly
    as the user imagines it should, and if it does not do everything perfectly and
    solve all former problems, and make toast and coffee for them as well --- oh dear
    no! That's just not on, is it? How terrible. How disappointing. What a letdown,
    to buy a software product only to find it doesn't work the way you imagined it
    ought to.\r\n\r\n<em>Anyway, hopefully in time some of the people involved will
    pick up distant rumbles from the venting of frustration in venues like this one,
    and some fine day we\u2019ll all inhabit a Shining World of OpenType!</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    wish. Don't dream it. Take it to the man (or woman) directly. They can't read
    your mind, and in the unlikely event they do pick up distant rumblings, they probably
    don't care. Not about one person's gripings. They've got much, much more pressing
    things to occupy them. You'd need a tidal wave of negative opinion regarding their
    font products to occur to get any action.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-02-11 13:11:56'
- author:
    name: peter.ricardo
    picture: 114218
  body: "Hi James,\r\n\r\nThanks for these thoughts. . . . When you say it would be
    good to advise DTL directly about the problems I see with their web site, pricing,
    and decisions on formats that might be keeping me and other potential customers
    from buying more of their fonts, is that the straight skinny, or sarcastic? Honestly
    unsure, though leaning toward the latter.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I wouldn't blame the
    rise of digital media for making me demanding. I would just blame me!\r\n\r\nEven
    when I am in better humor than when writing the above, I am confident that any
    foundry that doesn't move to fully OpenType now, is going to fervently wish it
    had within two or three years. It just makes too much sense. Not fully supporting
    OpenType will become the way not owning a mobile phone has gotten to be. At first
    reasonable people could opt out, but because of network effects at a certain point
    it became indispensable, and there was a sudden, unstoppable rise in adoption.\r\n\r\nI
    know the thing with Storm's John Baskerville's is that it is supposed to be extremely
    authentic, but to my eye it doesn't look noticeably more like Baskerville's original
    types\u2014you can view plenty of them yourself, without going to abandoned castle
    libraries, at Gale Group's Eighteenth Century Collections Online (ECCO)\u2014than
    Linotype Baskerville. Type set by John Baskerville looks beautiful to my eye,
    and Storm's doesn't. (E.g., type the word \"The,\" with a capital T, in italics
    in Storm's John Baskerville.) So I may stick by my opinion that its appearance
    is more bug than feature, albeit without asking you to share it. Aesthetic judgments
    are hard to dispute about.\r\n\r\nAnd yes, from the user's point of view\u2014by
    the way, since I think fonts are self-evidently made and sold for users to buy
    (at least by developers who want to support themselves with what they do), I am
    not sure I share your implicit opinion that the user's point of view is just one
    of two, equally important ones, along with that of developers (who, yes, have
    to expend extra effort to offer new features\u2014in what area of human activity
    is that not true?)\u2014from the user's point of view, it *is* disappointing to
    pay for and download a font, and then to find that it doesn't work the way you
    thought it would when you bought it.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I'll be happy to contact Linotype
    directly, but I don't know who to write or who would listen to me there. If you
    do, that would be fantastic."
  created: '2008-02-13 05:59:57'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<cite>Even when I am in better humor than when writing the above, I am confident
    that any foundry that doesn\u2019t move to fully OpenType now, is going to fervently
    wish it had within two or three years. It just makes too much sense.</cite>\r\n\r\nNot
    a valid argument, I think. Note that a lot of the early OT-re-releases didn\u2019t
    incorporate extra features, just the original character set with an Expert set
    thrown in. \r\nDeveloping a fully featured OT means adding a lot of extra glyphs
    and doing some serious programming. That takes time, costs money and thus has
    to be economically feasible.\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-02-13 13:24:12'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Hi Peter,\r\napologies for the long delay getting back to this thread. I've
    been ill for the past week.\r\n\r\n<em>When you say it would be good to advise
    DTL directly about the problems I see with their web site, pricing, and decisions
    on formats that might be keeping me and other potential customers from buying
    more of their fonts, is that the straight skinny, or sarcastic? Honestly unsure,
    though leaning toward the latter.</em>\r\n\r\nThat was the straight skinny, but
    I worded it sarcastically. If you have serious suggestions for them it wouldn't
    be unreasonable to send them your thoughts as long as you're very nice about it.
    Be very polite and explain first that it's nothing more than honest feedback,
    and with all respect for their ideas and existing vendor model and so on.\r\n\r\n<em>Even
    when I am in better humor than when writing the above, I am confident that any
    foundry that doesn\u2019t move to fully OpenType now, is going to fervently wish
    it had within two or three years. It just makes too much sense. Not fully supporting
    OpenType will become the way not owning a mobile phone has gotten to be. At first
    reasonable people could opt out, but because of network effects at a certain point
    it became indispensable, and there was a sudden, unstoppable rise in adoption.</em>\r\n\r\nYou're
    talking about \"competitive advantage\" regarding OpenType. Yes sir. It's safe
    to say the majority of type developers have already gone down the OpenType road,
    and it's hard to see how those remaining on the TrueType route can go on competing
    in the commercial sense. TrueType is already looking like a dirt track, unpaved
    and rutted, laden with pot holes and increasingly tiresome to travel for users
    and developers both.\r\n\r\nMonsoon. More soon...\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-02-21 20:45:26'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>I am confident that any foundry that doesn\u2019t move to fully OpenType
    now, is going to fervently wish it had within two or three years</cite>\r\nThat
    argument doesn't always fly with every foundry. You used the Font Bureau's Miller
    as an example, but at least THAT company will still be providing non-ot fonts
    for a long time.\r\n\r\nTheir client\xE8le is made up in large part of major newspapers
    around the world using non-opentype savvy applications, and those behemoth programs
    won't be going away any time soon because they are $$$$. Miller just so happens
    to be a well-used newspaper font that fits exactly into that category."
  created: '2008-02-22 02:13:42'
- author:
    name: peter.ricardo
    picture: 114218
  body: "Hi James et al.\r\n\r\nThanks for the interesting comments! I hadn't really
    thought about newspapers, and their legacy applications, at all\u2014I wonder
    what proportion of the business of the average foundry (if there is such a thing)
    comes from which categories of users? Knowing that might explain a lot.\r\n\r\nApparently
    MVB is in fact working on an OpenType Verdigris, which is great to know. And if
    anyone knows who to nag at Linotype about their Baskerville, please share!\r\n\r\nI
    don't completely get why the continuing existence of a market for the divvied-up
    TrueType versions of Miller would inhibit the Font Bureau from simply combining
    some of them into a nice OpenType version that includes small caps, but I guess
    success leads to a lessened sense of urgency, and it must be a fantastic seller
    for them still.\r\n\r\nFinally, I'm sort of hoping someone else will bite on my
    comments about Storm's John Baskerville! I was so disappointed when I started
    using it, and wondered whether I was alone in this. But it is just a matter of
    opinion, like all such things, I know. And in some respects (especially certain
    italic capital letters) he is certainly very faithful to the \u2018original.\u2019
    It's just that the overall effect strikes me as off.\r\n\r\nIt amazes me that
    10.5.2 (released in the days since the original rant) apparently did nothing to
    fix the Typography palette in Mac OS X. Anyway, I am about to be freed from Leopard\u2014I've
    been using an Apple Store loaner with Leopard installed on it while my PowerBook
    was repaired, but my PowerBook is all fixed and ready to pick up again. There's
    no way I am \u2018upgrading\u2019 that puppy from 10.4.11, after two nightmarish
    weeks on 10.5. I've never badmouthed any Apple computer or OS version before\u2014at
    least not in the past decade (and I never owned an Apple III)\u2014but there's
    a first time for everything. With Leopard it feels as if Apple has had some sort
    of collective corporate stroke, and lost both its taste and its quality control
    department simultaneously."
  created: '2008-02-22 07:55:27'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Although I haven't used it, I'm not too impressed with Storm's Baskerville.
    It always comes down to Storm's lower case a. Most of them in his designs just
    appear hideous to my eyes, and it totally ruins a typeface for me.
  created: '2008-02-22 08:51:18'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "<em>And if anyone knows who to nag at Linotype about their Baskerville, please
    share!</em>\r\n\r\nChecking over at the Linotype site yesterday and Baskerville
    is in Open Type."
  created: '2008-02-22 09:11:22'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"TrueType is already looking like a dirt track, unpaved and rutted, laden
    with pot holes and increasingly tiresome to travel for users and developers both.\"\r\n:-...wow.
    TT and OT are two different roads, hu?\r\nWe do everything and anything that's
    asked in OT, just ask...\r\nWe have no inhibitors, with only sleep or death to
    prevent the whole library.\r\nWhile you're waiting, go draw your own avatar and
    stop stealing bicycles.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-02-22 12:22:40'
- author:
    name: peter.ricardo
    picture: 114218
  body: "<cite> Checking over at the Linotype site yesterday and Baskerville is in
    Open Type.</cite>\r\n\r\nUnfortunately, it's only in Linotype's idiosyncratic
    OpenType \u201CCom\" version (which is \u201Coptimised for international communication
    and for use with Office applications\u201D). It lacks small caps, old-style figures,
    extra ligatures, and other typographic features commonly associated with OpenType,
    except for a scattering of characters that allow for support of Breton, Turkish,
    and the like (listed here: http://www.linotype.com/1697-21122/opentypecharactersetsopentypecom.html).\r\n\r\n<cite>wow.
    TT and OT are two different roads, hu?</cite>\r\n\r\nI might not have put it quite
    so forcefully myself! Though from an end user's point of view, sometimes it might
    feel a tiny bit that way. But I'm so delighted to know that Font Bureau can make
    more standard-issue OpenType versions of things like Miller, and overall just
    flabbergasted and delighted to hear from someone whose designs I admire so much.
    Could I be the first to request an amalgamated, \"OpenType Std\" version of [[http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Miller|Miller]]?
    (Closely followed by [[http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Eldorado|Eldorado]], which
    I adore as well!)\r\n\r\nBy the way, while you're on the line, if you still are,
    what proportions of Font Bureau's business would you say comes from individuals,
    companies, special commissions by publications, and the like? If that's trade-secretish
    sort of information, don't bother answering.\r\n\r\nThanks for noticing the bicycle--I
    have been trying to think of a more individuated avatar!\r\n\r\n\u2014Ladro di
    Biciclette"
  created: '2008-02-22 16:52:33'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Thanks for your support, and patience.\r\n\r\nJames?  \"TrueType is already
    looking like a dirt track, unpaved and rutted, laden with pot holes and increasingly
    tiresome to travel for users and developers both.\"\r\n\r\nWhat is increasingly
    tiresome to users? \r\nWhat is any kind of tiresome for developers...about TT?
    \r\nNext year will be TT's 20th birthday. 'TrueType is already looking [old]'
    means what...?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-24 14:50:15'
date: '2008-02-10 05:28:38'
node_type: forum
title: Why, oh why?

---
