---
author:
  name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
  picture: 110313
body: "I know this has been discussed a couple of times around here as I read that
  a 6x8 inches tablet is just fine and that some Typophiles are addicted to it but:\r\n\r\nAre
  Wacom tablets really efficient outside Photoshop and Corel Painter? \r\n\r\nCan
  they really replace a mouse in more publishing design oriented tasks like vector
  tracing or text editing?\r\n\r\nI'm asking because I got tendinitis on the wrist
  and would like to try a tablet for a relief but I have seen these tablets advertised
  almost exclusively for drawing applications and sloppy tagging (bamboo promo). \r\n\r\nMost
  of my work is done on Illustrator and Indesign, I do use photoshop frequently but
  mostly for adjusting the color, sharpness and contrast on photos.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
comments:
- author:
    name: nmerriam
    picture: 109650
  body: Sure, I know a number of folks who use their tablets in lieu of a mouse, particularly
    those who have carpal tunnel issues. The only reason I don't is that I generally
    use the tablet propped on my lap, which makes it fairly inconvenient for using
    the keyboard at the same time. Slapping it down on the side of the keyboard basically
    makes it like an active mouse pad, and you can even buy a Wacom mouse and switch
    back and forth as I did a few years ago (that's when it is REALLY cool and convenient
    that each device is individually programmable and automatically recognized by
    the tablet).
  created: '2008-02-11 06:51:41'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "The thing I hated about using it exclusively was that your hand, your wrist,
    drags on the pad and starts to get rubbed sore. I had one of those nice gel pads
    for my mouse, but I can't use that for the tablet.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-11 07:13:11'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "I used one of the small ones (A5-size) for years (after I started having
    problems with my wrist) and found it to be very convenient.\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert
    Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-02-11 09:38:54'
- author:
    name: dropkick
    picture: 112376
  body: 'I have the Cintiq 21UX and I can''t imagine life without it now. Vector work
    is so much less pleasant with a mouse now that I''m comfortable doing it with
    a stylus. I use it with Photoshop quite a bit, but much more frequently in Illustrator. '
  created: '2008-02-11 11:57:24'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I use a Wacom tabled with my right hand and a mouse with my left hand. I
    tend to use the left mouse for trivial work like scrolling while reading web pages,
    file copying and anywhere else where precision is not required. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2008-02-11 12:01:24'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "i began using a tablet to relieve \"mouse cramp\" and i love it. now i can't
    work without it - but i insist on  a large one. i found that with a pen i need
    to get as close as possible to a 1 to 1 scale relationship between monitor and
    hand.\r\n\r\nas noted, the tablet also allows you to work very close to the body,
    relieving arm reach and shoulder strain.\r\n\r\nif you are starting to experience
    any kind of repetitive stress- wrist, arm, or elsewhere - i strongly advise you
    to change up the ergonomics as soon as possible, and a tablet is an easy way to
    do that.\r\n\r\ni use it (in tandem with a mouse) for all sorts of non-drawing
    tasks, and it also allows me to return to mouse tasks with more endurance than
    i would have with a mouse-only station.\r\n\r\nfor drawing tasks, of course, it
    is ideal."
  created: '2008-02-11 14:34:31'
- author:
    name: iffy
    picture: 113881
  body: "I use a 6x8 and use InDesign and Illustrator almost exclusively and I never
    use my mouse. Actually I don't remember the last time I used my mouse. I use my
    tablet when online, and I even type with the pen in my hand. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-11 14:52:40'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Stangely enough, and in contrast to what Adam says, I end up using the mouse
    when precision is required and the tablet on random other occasions. \r\nThis
    is because the mouse allows me to position the cursor where I want and then let
    go of the button precisely there whereas with the pen I tend to move the cursor
    unwillingly while I lift it, messing up the carefully selected position I was
    at. Anyone else has the same problem or am I just too shaky? \r\nPlus, a pen is
    obviously not so convenient if you switch a lot between typing and using the cursor
    because you can't simply let go of it like with a mouse."
  created: '2008-02-11 15:42:39'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Great, then I'll be ordering a 6x8 Graphire soon.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2008-02-11 17:40:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I haven''t tried a Wacom tablet, but I do find a track ball is significantly
    easier for me to handle with precision than is a mouse. I originally switched
    because of a sore shoulder from repetitive motion with the mouse, and it helps
    for that too. '
  created: '2008-02-11 17:58:15'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "to tim:\r\n\r\n\"because the mouse allows me to position the cursor where
    I want and then let go of the button precisely there whereas with the pen I tend
    to move the cursor unwillingly while I lift it, messing up the carefully selected
    position I was at. \"\r\n\r\nyes, this is common for me too - i too end up going
    to the mouse sometimes when i want a precise stop. \r\ndrinking less coffee helps.
    \ ;)\r\n\r\nas for mouse ergonomics:  i love my logitech bluetooth !  \r\nit's
    the smallest mouse i've found and ergonomically perfect for me."
  created: '2008-02-11 18:36:49'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: I have 2 Wacom tablets - a medium Bamboo Fun I use at home and a 9x12 Intuos
    I use at work. I use the mouse for must design work and surfing, but the pen for
    any image editing or drawing. I could probably get used to surfing with the pen,
    but I've just never really tried.
  created: '2008-02-11 21:13:33'
- author:
    name: The Don Killuminati
    picture: 113938
  body: One of the unadvertised benefits of the Wacom mouse is that it is a bit lighter.
    Many USB mice are a bit heavier + if it isn't cordless the slight tension of dragging
    around a cable means just a bit more work with every movement. It may seem like
    a microscopic difference but over time it has an effect. I switched to a Wacom
    tablet thinking that the stylus would help relieve hand stress, but the light
    cordless mouse was itself enough.
  created: '2008-02-12 18:30:46'
- author:
    name: tomii
  body: "Hector, \r\nI think Wacom works very well for you, though it takes couple
    of weeks to get used to.. at first it isn't so easy not to make accidental clicks
    and move stuff around. :) I also had a bit of a stress in my shoulder at the beginning.
    I have Intuos3 A5 wide, and I haven't used mouse for over a year now. I work mainly
    in Indesign and Photoshop."
  created: '2008-02-12 19:30:10'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: I think mouse weight depends on the model. The Intuos is still a bit heavy,
    but the Bamboo mouse is very light.
  created: '2008-02-12 19:48:13'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: Well, if you are looking for a <cite>really</cite> lightweight mouse you should
    check out [[http://www.designodoubt.com/entry/Jelly-click-_-mouse-for-laptop|this]].
  created: '2008-02-12 22:33:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I've been using a Wacom for everything since 1992, and attribute it to keeping
    me free of hand/wrist ailments, despite a vast number of hours at the computer.\r\n\r\nThe
    reason is:\r\n\r\n1. The natural position for the wrist is with the plane of the
    palm vertical, as when standing or walking. And that's the position used in writing.
    In mousing, the wrist is rotated 90 degrees, which twists and stresses nerves
    in the carpal tunnel.\r\n\r\n2. When mousing, you're using just one finger for
    clicking. Any physical activity so exclusive is bad in the long run, because it's
    better to share the load. Therefore, clicking with a \"writing\" movement that
    spreads the work between fingers and wrist is less stressful."
  created: '2008-02-12 23:47:08'
- author:
    name: Rodrigue Planck
    picture: 109713
  body: "I use the pen and a puck digitizer as my mouse on my ARTZ II. 12 X 9. I love
    it, it is the only way to go.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nThe Truth shall set you free"
  created: '2008-02-13 01:17:36'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Spring for the Intuos. Much better than the Graphire.\r\n\r\nI have a 4\"x5\"
    Graphire, and a 6\"x8\" Intuos and a 9\"x12\" Intuos. I never use a mouse, ever.\r\n\r\nThe
    6\"x8\" is just fine for almost everything, but cutting masks in PS sometimes
    the bigger one is desirable.\r\n\r\nSaved my wrist.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-02-13 02:52:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I use the 6 x 8 Intuos.\r\nThe only problem I had when I got it was the cumbersome
    (to me) stylus, the \"Grip\" pen, that came as standard.\r\nPresumably they did
    some market research before they came up with it, but to me it was like using
    a kid's crayon.\r\nYou may prefer the more slender \"Classic\" pen, which has
    more the barrel width of a normal pen or pencil.\r\n\r\nWhat do other people think
    of stylus barrel width?"
  created: '2008-02-13 03:05:03'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I don't mind the kindergarten pencil grip pen - pretty used to it - I got
    one of the metal ones at one point and that didn't work for long - I hate the
    click button so mine is just gone - one of the nice things about the metal pen
    was that you could remove the button and replace it with a grip that had no hole
    in it.\r\n\r\nI have gone through a few and I must say I prefer the grip to the
    classic.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-02-13 04:25:40'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "What would be quite nice would a second input for the tablet, so it could
    be used parallel to a mouse. Well, at least to those few of us who have a tablet
    on the left and mouse on the right.\r\n\r\nI'd have to say that I am the only
    tablet user I associate with that hasn't transitioned to using the tablet as the
    primary input. Most seem to use it for all tasks, after a few-week acclimation.\r\n\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">C</a> <A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!</a>
    <A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">.~</a>"
  created: '2008-02-13 05:08:22'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: You probably know this, but learning the keyboard shortcuts definitely help
    lessen the repetitive motion problems. I have gone through touch-pads (my favorite,
    but got a sore finger tip), trackballs (sore thumb from left-clicking with it),
    mice (numb back of hand), and now use a Wacom tablet, and like it just fine. It
    came with a mouse, and I occasionally use it for a change of pace.
  created: '2008-02-13 05:19:05'
- author:
    name: Stephen Rapp
    picture: 111901
  body: "I use the Wacom Intuos 3. Since I work in Photoshop with handlettering/calligraphy
    a lot, its great for cleaning up lettering. I would find it hard to do with a
    mouse. The mouse that comes with the tablet is great for navigating the web and
    such. Before I upgraded my FontLab, I found the pen a little too sensitive, but
    seems to work fine in FL5.\r\n\r\nStephen"
  created: '2008-02-13 19:11:34'
- author:
    name: Rodrigue Planck
    picture: 109713
  body: "My digitizer (4 keys) acts just like a mouse, you just have to keep it on
    the tablet. Wacoms website has no less than 13 pens for the intuos, with different
    grips.\r\nThe Truth shall set you free"
  created: '2008-02-15 02:28:28'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I read somewhere that Graphire and Bamboo tablets tend to lag \xBFIs it true?\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2008-02-15 03:32:20'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I still am confused by the name of that company. Is it pronounced "whack'em",
    "walk'em", "way-calm", or what?
  created: '2008-02-15 17:27:58'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: WAY COM
  created: '2008-02-15 18:01:27'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>I read somewhere that Graphire and Bamboo tablets tend to lag \xBFIs
    it true?</em>\r\n\r\nA while back, under heavy multitasking, in windows 2000,
    on a 1.3 GHz Athlon with 1 GB ram, I'd have to say no, not at all. Unless everything
    was lagging. But I think that tables can get a reputation for that when people
    overload their computers with crazy-complex photoshop brushes - which lag with
    a mouse, too.\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">C</a> <A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!</a>
    <A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">.~</a>"
  created: '2008-02-15 19:04:04'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "Re pronunciation - I phoned the customer service line once and the guy on
    the other end pronounced it \"WAH-com\".\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2008-02-16 14:34:40'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "dohp ! thanks for the correction lex...  funny thing is \r\ni've been on
    the phone w/ them too and they didn't correct me.\r\n\r\ntomahto tomayto ?"
  created: '2008-02-16 15:32:56'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "You just reminded me of a classic Walken monologue from SNL :-)\r\n\r\n -
    Lex"
  created: '2008-02-16 15:56:46'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I read somewhere that Graphire and Bamboo tablets tend to lag \xBFIs
    it true?</cite>\r\n\r\nI think that notion is a result of users who only have
    the budget for the inexpensive tablets also having inexpensive computers. Photoshop
    and any version of Painter pre-IX are not friendly to the RAM-impaired. Learning
    to use GIMP usually fixes this problems."
  created: '2008-02-16 16:07:58'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Christopher Walken: Thank you. It\u2019s good, as always, to be here. It\u2019s
    a treat. But this time, it\u2019s extra special because it\u2019s the final show
    of the season. After how many shows, Jimmy? 505, actually. 505, Wow! I've done
    it five times - what's that? A drop in the bucket. So I thought, \"What can I
    do to make my mark?\" And then, I thought, \"Well, I'll sing a song.\"\r\n\r\nsinging\r\n\r\n\"Things
    have come to a pretty pass\r\nOur romance is growing flat\r\nFor you like this
    and the other\r\nWhile I go for this and that\r\nGoodness knows where the end
    will be\r\nOr I don't know where it's at.\r\nIt looks as if we two will never
    be one\r\nSomething must be done.\r\nYou say potato, and I say potato\r\nYou say
    tomato, and I say tomato\r\nPotato, potato\r\nTomato, tomato\r\nLet's - \"\r\n\r\nJimmy
    Fallon: Chris?\r\n\r\nChristopher Walken: Jimmy, wazzup!\r\n\r\nJimmy Fallon:
    Sorry to interrupt. I don't know if that's how the song goes.\r\n\r\nChristopher
    Walken: What do you mean?\r\n\r\nJimmy Fallon: You're singing the words the same.
    You have to say, likw, tomayto, tomahto. Tomahto, potahto.\r\n\r\nChristopher
    Walken: Tomahto? What's that?\r\n\r\nJimmy Fallon: It's just how they say it.\r\n\r\nChristopher
    Walken: Okay, I'll give it a try.\r\n\r\nsinging\r\n\r\n\"You say potahto, I say
    potahto\r\nYou say totahto, I say totahto\r\nTomahto, potahto\r\nPotahto, potahto,
    tomahto, tomahto -\"\r\n\r\nJimmy Fallon: Chris, I'm so sorry. You're doing it
    the other way now. And I think you have to alternate them.\r\n\r\nChristopher
    Walken: Alternate, shmaltermate! Jimmy, look, they're all spelled the same on
    the cards. What do you want from my life?\r\n\r\nJimmy Fallon: I think you're
    supposed to go - potayto, potahto..\r\n\r\nChristopher Walken: Jim, how old are
    you?\r\n\r\nJimmy Fallon: I'm 26.\r\n\r\nChristopher Walken: Ouch! Look, son..
    sometimes you just gotta do what you gotta do. Let me show you. And a-one, and
    a-two - "
  created: '2008-02-16 22:11:42'
- author:
    name: Thomas Levine
    picture: 112734
  body: "This was actually the original reason I got a graphics tablet. (Well, I didn't
    technically have tendonitis, but my wrists always hurt.)\r\n\r\nI'm not certified
    in any way in ergonomics, but I've read <em>a lot</em> about it. Mice are absolutely
    terrible for your hands, much worse than keyboards, (I can give you dozens of
    studies that support this.) and one study referenced in a textbook I read showed
    essentially that graphics tablets were on average the best of any pointing input
    device in terms of usability and posture and almost as easy to use as a mouse.
    I find it easier to use than a mouse.\r\n\r\nThere are some alternative mice out
    there that are better in general but put a lot of strain on the thumb muscles.
    This includes joysticks and the Gyration mice. The AerO2bic mouse looks really
    good and simple. It's expensive though. I've seen some touchscreen desks, and
    they look awesome, but they're still outrageously expensive.\r\n\r\nMy general
    recommendation is get as many different styles of pointing input device as you
    have space for them on your desk, one of which should be a graphics tablet, and
    use whichever one you feel like using.\r\n\r\nIf you're also considering getting
    a better keyboard, check the [[http://groups.yahoo.com/group/altkeyboards/|altkeyboards
    Yahoo! group]]."
  created: '2008-02-17 15:50:30'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Received my Wacom tablet today and fund myself instantly comfortable with
    it, great response and all.\r\n\r\nThe only pet pevee would be the USB cable has
    to be connected on the top side so it collides with the keyboard.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2008-04-15 22:37:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/desktopsetup_5430.jpg]\r\nI work with
    the keyboard and monitor bang in front, and the tablet to the right of the keyboard.\r\nThe
    desk is L-shaped. X is where my elbow is."
  created: '2008-04-15 22:48:07'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "<cite>What do other people think of stylus barrel width?</cite>\r\n\r\nSame.
    My first experience was with the classic (slender barrel) stylus at work. Instantly
    comfortable with the tablet. Loved it.\r\n\r\nBought a tablet for home and got
    the big fat crayon stylus. Disappointed.\r\n\r\n1 1/2 year-old daughter bit the
    trigger out of the crayon stylus and I was delighted to find you can still order
    the classic stylus.\r\n\r\nI recently converted to a standing work station and
    I cannot imagine ever sitting for 8 hours a day again. Using the stylus and keyboard
    at belly-button height is perfectly comfortable, and in fact allows for a little
    exercise when the toes start tapping and the hips start swaying to the ever-surprising
    iTunes shuffle!\r\n\r\nOh yeah...I do get that rub on the wrist bone, but it's
    mildly comforted by a mouse pad...the top of the tablet is propped up by a an
    old 5/8\" thick book to achieve the most natural writing angle for me.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-15 22:57:07'
date: '2008-02-11 06:35:11'
title: Wacom again

---
