---
author:
  name: Dan Gayle
  picture: 111595
body: "All of the talk of \"authentic revivals\" like Garamond Premier Pro has me
  wondering something. Truly authentic typesetting would use zero kerning, wouldn't
  it? For instance, if you wanted an AW sequence that didn't have a year's worth of
  space between them, you'd have to use a physically different sort, i.e., a logotype
  or ligature to make up the space between them.\r\n\r\nSo if a person wanted to create
  a truly authentic spacing setup as was used up until our modern time, how would
  you go about doing so? For instance, Caslon. An authentic Caslon would never have
  been kerned, so how would you set up a document so that the <em>spacing</em> was
  authentic, not just the letterforms?\r\n\r\nOr, what kind of metrics settings would
  a type designer build into a typeface to do the same thing?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "I guess it would be NO kerning but POSITIVELY spacing (using spacers). Common
    practice used to be fixing the apparant mistakes as they appeared (at least that\u2019s
    how we did it in our printing department at Art School).\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert
    Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-02-11 09:25:26'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "You would try to figure out what the metal spaces had been either directly
    by examining the metal or by inference.\r\n\r\nIf it was a handmade punchcut type
    it would be more complicated. If it was a Monotype or Linotype then you could
    learn about their widths which were more standardized.\r\n\r\nBut doing something
    like this wouldn't be something I would consider seriously. With real progress
    possible why create a deliberately  hobbled typo-fetish object? ...Unless you
    think you think there is a market for it. \r\n\r\nDo you?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-11 09:43:05'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "My reasoning is this: If you're gonna make a revival typeface, why not recreate
    the whole thing? Sure, most of us want to have nicely fitting type. But what if
    I WANT to create a page of type that looks like it's straight out of 17th century
    Holland?\r\n\r\nYou'd obviously not want that the default setting, but it wouldn't
    take brain surgery, I'm guessing, to create a stylistic set for just the spacing.
    That way, the Luddites, such as myself, could turn it on or off to our heart's
    content.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-11 10:30:23'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "The old punchcutters did have kerned parts in their letters. Where do you
    get the idea that they didn't? 17th century Dutch type had kerning. The 15th and
    16th century Italians had it, too, IIRC.\r\n\r\nThe Linotype machine didn't really
    have it, but I think that the Monotype machine did. There came much later anyway.\r\n\r\nKerning
    may have been *used* less in the 17th century than it is today (lots of unkerned
    cap Vs and Ws back then, I think). But kerning wasn't a foreign practice. It was
    just hard to do, not impossible."
  created: '2008-02-11 11:08:17'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Have a look at \u2018old-style kerning\u2019: <a href=\"http://www.dma.ufg.ac.at/app/link/Grundlagen:DTP/module/13712\">Article
    on hand composition by Thomas Maier</a> (scroll down to ~ top third of page; \u2018WALTER\u2019).\r\nF"
  created: '2008-02-11 12:57:31'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "As the WALTER photo shows, metal type could indeed be \"kerned\". We spent
    many an hour with saw and file undercutting parts of metal types so, for instance,
    that W could rest nicely on the shoulder of the A.\r\n\r\nThe cutting had to be
    precise so the pieces fit together sweetly, lest the kerned part break off during
    the press run, possibly fouling other parts of the forme.\r\n\r\nA clever Monotype
    keyboard operator could get the same thing to happen right on the machine, no
    sawing necessary. I forget how that was done, but I do know that few keyboarders
    knew the trick.\r\n\r\nTake a look at books designed and printed by Leonard Baskin
    at Gehenna Press. He'd set dense lines of all caps with never a thought about
    the wide spaces that come with WA, etc. And I seem to recall that he used the
    Bembo long-tail R in those settings, too. That's about as \"authentic\" as you
    could get. \r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2008-02-11 14:33:27'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > For instance, if you wanted an AW sequence that didn\u2019t have
    a year\u2019s worth of space between them, you\u2019d have to use a physically
    different sort, i.e., a logotype or ligature to make up the space between them.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo,
    Dan, you'd have to cut some of the body metal away so that the A and W would overlap.
    (As seen from the link Florian posted.) \r\n\r\nThat is, in fact, the original
    meaning of 'kern' -- a part of the type that extended beyond the body and overlapped
    with the sort beside it. The verb \"to kern\" meant to cut away some metal (producing
    a \"kerning\" element).\r\n\r\nSome foundry sorts might have been cast with a
    kern -- e.g., the f might often have a projecting terminal. Linotype could not
    accommodate any kerned elements, thus the infamous Linotype non-kerning f. Monotype
    casting, however, could accommodate kerned sorts. \r\n\r\nNaturally, kerned elements
    could be fragile. And manual kerning (with a kern saw) was time-consuming. So
    it kerning was employed sparingly.\r\n\r\nBut it's not correct to say that it
    didn't exist.\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2008-02-11 14:53:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Personally I think that authenticity in revivals is not a goal worth the
    effort, and you are going to fall short anyway, as every other 'authentic' revival
    has. What is worth it is to revive what you find good in a old type, and suit
    it for modern printing, or the screen, as the case may be. \r\n\r\nOn spacing,
    I don't see any charm in having, eg, your italic caps look like they are in another
    county from the rest of the word they go with--something you can see in old books.
    \r\n\r\nKerning in digital type is a good thing, as Martha would say. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-11 15:02:43'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>No, Dan, you\u2019d have to cut some of the body metal away so that
    the A and W would overlap.</cite>\r\n\r\nI have in my hands a Linotype specimen
    from the 50s where they are clearly selling V_A A_W W_A, etc., ligated sorts.\r\n\r\nThat
    idea of the kerned, as in cut away, sorts was something I was vaguely familiar
    with, but I was under the impression that it was rarely done. I think one of the
    old school letterpress guys here on Typophile even posted some pics at one time
    of a long overhanging f in foundry type.\r\n\r\nBut that's still going to be mainly
    for book printing, correct? What about the more ephemeral things like newspapers?
    \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMAGE089_3828.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-11 18:56:19'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: In any case, I can't seem to recall where I saw it, but didn't metal sorts
    have width sizes for standardization purposes? Something like i, n, and m widths,
    then UC specific widths? Or am I just imagining that I've seen that somewhere...
  created: '2008-02-11 18:59:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Such authenticity is not out of the question.\r\nFirstly, most type designers
    would, I imagine, make sure their typefaces are fine without kerning first, before
    they add it. The reason being it's much easier to work that way.\r\nThen, all
    the typographer has to do is enter zero in the kerning field in Quark/InDe."
  created: '2008-02-11 19:44:02'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> He\u2019d set dense lines of all caps with never a thought about the wide
    spaces that come with WA, etc. \r\n\r\nIf you are setting dense lines of all caps,
    why bother with kerning.\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\nIn the newspaper sample, there is a
    Tr and a Ve that clearly show no kerning. But then newspapers didn't worry about
    kerning until the computer generation (if they do at all). "
  created: '2008-02-11 20:30:19'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "That's my point. If I wanted to create an authentic 17th century newspaper
    *look*, would simply setting all of the kerning to zero work? \r\n\r\nPossibly
    for upright Roman faces, but not for italics, since modern metrics have the right
    sidebearings within the letterform itself. Obviously, except in the cases as mentioned
    above, NOT something that would have happened on a letter cut into a physical
    block of metal.\r\n\r\nThe sidebearings would have to be bumped to the edges of
    the letterform itself, NOT something that a modern type designer would want by
    default in all cases. Hence, the idea of a stylistic set that only effects the
    spacing, using composite glyphs that vary only in the change of sidebearings and
    kerning."
  created: '2008-02-11 20:48:23'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: Someone else can correct me if I am wrong, but I believe that italic hotmetal
    was cast on oblique type slugs. I think it is the Ludlow machine I see in my mind,
    but perhaps Linotype did the same thing? And handset?
  created: '2008-02-11 20:53:08'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "The Linotype Machine didn't have oblique matrices. In fact, the italic and
    the roman (or the roman and the bold) were often duplexed, i.e., they were one
    the same matrix, one letter above the other (e.g., roman over italic). The means,
    of course, that the two duplexed letters had to have the same character width.
    Typefaces that were designed with this limitation in mind look good. Others don't
    really\u2026"
  created: '2008-02-11 22:02:46'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Dan [Gayle] -- Sorry, didn't mean to imply that there were no ligated sorts
    (or, properly, logotypes). But that was mostly only for Linotype, because the
    nature of the linecasting technology is such that it cannot accommodate kerns
    at all. (Since an entire line is cast at once, you can't very well cut kerns manually
    either.)\r\n\r\nMonotype casts individual sorts and automatically sets them up
    in a line, and the casting technology could accommodate kerning (although, as
    Will pointed out, this might take some clever finagling). So generally speaking,
    logotypes were not provided for the kind of combinations you're talking about.
    Same for foundry type, I believe.\r\n\r\nThere were certain faces in foundry (I
    don't know about Mono) that would offer special logotype and ligatured sorts,
    but that was usually for decorative faces, not so much with workhorse text faces.
    This is not the same as the AW VA AW kind you're talking about.\r\n\r\nStarting
    around the beginning of the 20th century, Linotype acquired the lion's share of
    newspaper text market. So, you won't see any kerning in newspaper type. I doubt
    any of them ever bothered to use logotype or ligatured sorts -- too much hassle
    on newspaper deadlines. Also, as a consequence, the kind of AW or WA logotypes
    you're referring to weren't provided for newspaper faces, mostly only some book
    faces.\r\n\r\n<cite> > In any case, I can\u2019t seem to recall where I saw it,
    but didn\u2019t metal sorts have width sizes for standardization purposes? </cite>\r\n\r\nI
    think you're recalling that Monotype designs were constrained to a unitized width
    system -- initially 18 units, later 54 units -- where widths were restricted to
    certain increments of the em.\r\n\r\nNot true of Linotype or foundry type.\r\n\r\nThere
    was a system of \"quick-set\" types developed by ATF with very restricted, modular
    widths, and promoted as easier to justify quickly because of the modular nature
    of line lengths. But I don't think that was very widely embraced.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-11 23:12:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Also, as a consequence, the kind of AW or WA logotypes you\u2019re referring
    to weren\u2019t provided for newspaper faces, mostly only some book faces.</em>\r\n\r\nSure,
    no logotypes for Corona and Opticon, but a great many Linotype faces had them,
    including Times, Spartan, and Metro.\r\nWhether the operators used them is another
    matter."
  created: '2008-02-11 23:29:41'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: ">>  I believe that italic hotmetal was cast on oblique type slugs. I think
    it is the Ludlow machine I see in my mind.\r\n\r\nYou are sort of right, Don.
    The slugs themselves are not oblique. The slug, the underpinning of the line of
    type cast on a Ludlow, is no different than for roman type. Slugs are 6 or 12
    points thick, and they all look the same. So it is not correct to say that the
    slugs for italic type on the Ludlow are oblique.\r\n\r\nThe matrices for italic
    type are angled, to accommodate the \"slant\" of the letterforms. All Ludlow italic
    mats are angled to the same degree. I am not sure if this could allow for varying
    degrees of slant amongst faces; I never really looked at that.\r\n\r\nThere are
    two ways to set italic. If you are setting a line in all italic, you get out the
    \"italic stick.\" The ends of the stick are angled the same as the matrices. You
    place mats in the stick the same as roman mats or dingbat mats, lock the stick,
    slide it in the machine, click the trigger and get a slug with italic type.\r\n\r\nIf
    you wish to inert an italic word within a roman line\u2014say, a book title or
    a cuss word\u2014you insert an italic word space fore and aft of the italic. These
    are \"triangular\" word spacers. The \"flat\" side snugs tight with the roman
    mat ahead of it, and the following edge slants to receive the ital mat. Just the
    opposite at the other end of the ital sorts. Sometimes this makes for odd word
    spacing. Sometimes I'd cast two of such a slug and cut the italic out of each,
    then with the saw adjust the space either side of the ital, generally reducing
    it, and re-assemble the line.\r\n\r\nAngled mats give Ludlow lines the impression
    of kerns: look at the italic f in Ludlow Garamond (the basis for Font Bureau's
    Garamond].\r\n\r\nI have tried to find some pix on the web of these things, but
    no luck. I thought Mark Jamra had a little Ludlow movie on his site, but no can
    find tonight. & I cannot post anything, for all my books are in deep storage.
    Sorry.\r\n\r\nLudlow is so cool. I loved working one. The only way I'd ever get
    back into letterpress was if I could get a good Ludlow and good selection of mats.\r\n\r\npowers
    (an old school letterpress guy)\r\n\r\nOH: re Leonard Baskin: most of the clasic
    \"fine printers\" abhorred all-cap lines in which the spacing was not evened out
    so such as HE appeared to have the same amount of space as WA. That's all I was
    pointing out: Leonard's iconoclasm in that regard."
  created: '2008-02-12 03:15:59'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Just did a quick search on Googl\xE9, and I found this image of an italic
    composing stick for the Ludlow on Ebay:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/3309_1_4042.JPG]\r\n\r\n\r\nSo
    the idea of spaced all caps came about <em>because</em> of spacing issues? That's
    an interesting observation.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-12 06:31:20'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Thanks, Dan, very much, for giving us that photo. You're better at the web
    than I.\r\n\r\nWhat you show here is more than just an italic Ludlow stick. This
    is an italic LONG stick. There is also a long stick for roman work.\r\n\r\nFirst
    the \"italic\" part. You can see how the ends of the stick are angled so the angled
    italic mats fit into it. I wrote about that last night.\r\n\r\nNow for the \"long\"
    part. Take note of those notches on the upper edge of the stick, and of the pairs
    of diagonal lines on the bottom edge. Most Ludlow machines were built to cast
    slugs 22.5 picas long. A few were made to cast 30-pica slugs (American picas).
    This points to its dominance in news and ad work. But obviously a newspaper will
    often need heds longer than 22.5 or 30 picas. When that happens, the comp resorts
    to the long stick. He sets the entire headline, up to about 66 picas in this stick,
    I think. At those notches he sticks a special spacer, maybe about 5 picas wide.
    This spacer can go between words or letters, no matter. The spacers allow the
    comp to insert that stick full of mats into the stick holder 3 times in succession,
    each time at the \"regular\" length of 22.5 picas. Once, twice, thrice. Each slug
    is then 22.5 picas long, and they can then be butted together to set the full-measure
    hed. At the end of each slug the type is \"kerned\" (for lack of a better word)
    out over the end of the slug, and at the beginning of the next slug is empty space
    to the exact width of the kern, so the join is seamless and not noticeable in
    the printed line.\r\n\r\nI'd be happy to chat here about other Ludlow questions:
    we've gotten a bit off topic. If someone wants to start a Ludlow session, do so.
    & I'd encourage any others who once used Ludlows to join in. I hope I'm not the
    only one who has used this sweet gizmo.\r\n\r\nSPACED CAPS. I think spacing of
    all caps (and small caps) came about for two reasons. One is that the massed rectangle
    of all caps, especially when there are more vertical strokes than rounds or diagonals,
    is easier to read when some air is introduced. We do this today by adding overall
    tracking, as when a book's running head is set in spaced smalls. We also can automatically
    space lines of all-cap or all-smalls on Monotype machines that have a \"unit adder\"
    (that ain't a kind of snake). The second reason is aesthetic. Those spaced lines,
    Monotype or computer, look better if some of the letterspaces are varied a bit
    so they appear to be equal. With Leonard Baskin, un-spaced all caps was part of
    his type vision.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2008-02-12 14:16:21'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"My reasoning is this: If you\u2019re gonna make a revival typeface, why
    not recreate the whole thing?\"\r\n\r\n\"I\u2019d be happy to chat here about
    other Ludlow questions: we\u2019ve gotten a bit off topic...\"\r\n\r\nNot really.
    You are representing the knowledge Dan's 100% revival would require to properly
    use such a face.\r\nSo, if you make a face, recreate the whole thing, as metal
    would have allowed, then one had better recreate the users who could make the
    best out of it.\r\n\r\n\"The sidebearings would have to be bumped to the edges
    of the letterform itself,...\"\r\nMetal does allow some kerning to occur, you
    know. It might not last long under tough printing conditions, but letters did
    and do 'bleed' off the body.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-12 21:23:15'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite>So the idea of spaced all caps came about because of spacing issues?
    That\u2019s an interesting observation.</cite>\r\n\r\nActually it may be a re-invention
    of the wheel as much as anything. Actual Roman Roman caps were often spaced widely.
    Jan Tschichold was a big advocate. See \r\n\r\nhttp://briem.ismennt.is/2/2.3.5a/2.3.5.01.spacing.htm\r\n\r\nActually,
    the old carved letters also had a wider variety of widths than do Caps in the
    period you are talking about. Look at an E\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/canadianveggie/172779789/in/pool-visible_words\r\n\r\nI
    think this variance helped to make them read more readily ( more distinctive)
    when \"set\" as text. Making Caps whose widths were more similar probably came
    about as a result of their new use with the miniscule. Which makes me wonder if
    small cap designs aught to vary their widths more than they usually do...\r\n\r\nWhat
    do you think?"
  created: '2008-02-12 23:00:43'
- author:
    name: Robert Trogman
    picture: 111573
  body: I have some Ludlow display mats that have kerning pairs in the capital. They
    are shown in the Ludlow catalog.
  created: '2008-02-13 00:50:04'
date: '2008-02-11 08:24:49'
node_type: forum
title: '"Authentic" letter spacing of revival fonts'

---
