---
author:
  name: Simon3W
  picture: 114230
body: "Hello all.\r\n\r\nI'm not a designer or typographer, just an editor. I edit
  a small-scale UK magazine. As well as covering current affairs we review films and
  music, but it's a pretty intelligent read -- sophisticated but pretty sober. We're
  relaunching next month, going from a mono interior to full colour.\r\n\r\nObviously
  fonts are a pretty big deal. It's the designer's call, but I got a few books and
  read up just because typography interests me. I also read a bunch of blogs and forums.\r\n\r\nBut
  here's the thing. I can't understand why Mrs Eaves wouldn't be a brilliant body
  text for us. I know it's pretty common now, and I know it draws attention to itself,
  but I like that it's full of character. In comparison most other things look bland,
  particularly the Baskerville alternatives that I get presented with.\r\n\r\nThe
  designer is with me to a certain extent. He says that he loves the way it looks,
  but that I should understand that typographers have a problem with it as a body
  text. Well, I guess I do, but only insofar as it wants to be seen. I do think it's
  readable despite all that.\r\n\r\nIf we use it it'll be 11.5 on 11.5, with column
  widths of around 75mm. We'll be printing onto good-quality 90gsm satin.\r\n\r\nSo,
  if you think my subscribers will benefit, please convince me that I'm wrong (with
  alternatives). The only other font I've seen that I really like is Fabiol, and I
  reckon you'd think that was worse...\r\n\r\nThanks."
comments:
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I've set a book (over my protest) in Mrs. Eaves. The designer insisted on
    it. To my eye, it is so open & gappy you can drive smallish trucks between the
    letters. When you look for type for body copy -- text -- don't look at individual
    letterforms first. Look at sentences, or at least groups of words. Once you find
    fonts where that is comfortable, then look at letterforms if you wish.\r\n\r\nYes,
    it is readable. I once had a famous designer call me & exclaim \"I took all the
    word spaces out of the text, and I can still read it!\" I suppose you could. But
    why would anyone want to?"
  created: '2008-02-11 15:44:15'
- author:
    name: writingdesigning
    picture: 112522
  body: "''In comparison most other things look bland, particularly the Baskerville
    alternatives that I get presented with..''\r\n\r\nI think Mrs Eaves was meant
    to be a revival/reinterpretation of Baskerville. \r\n\r\nI haven't seen it used
    at small sizes, and for a lot of running text as in a magazine (But then 11.5
    is not very small). Fabiol too has somewhat eccentric details for running text.
    \r\n\r\nWhy not set a page or two with actual content in both, and get a few people
    to read it. Or have you already? \r\n\r\nBtw. You may also like to look at [[http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/fontfont/ff_absara|FF
    Absara]]"
  created: '2008-02-11 16:05:43'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 'Mrs. Eaves is very wide and, as Charles says, gappy but I like it and have
    used it for body text. '
  created: '2008-02-11 16:18:26'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Typographers argue about everything! But this is your magazine\u2026 if you
    like Mrs. Eaves, then use it! Your designer should be able to handle it without
    too much trouble. If your readers don't like it, you could always change it later,
    but they probably won't find anything to object about."
  created: '2008-02-11 16:28:08'
- author:
    name: Simon3W
    picture: 114230
  body: "I have set some pages. We found that if we kerned (I think that's the right
    term) the text to -5, the gaps seemed fine to us. Is there a specific reason we
    shouldn't be doing that?\r\n\r\nAnd yeah, it's a Baskerville revival. But the
    other Baskervilles (at least the ones I've tried, which includes the Storm ones)
    just seem pretty dull to me."
  created: '2008-02-11 16:37:26'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Tracking is the right term, and I've found a little tracking helpful in Mrs.
    Eaves too. I'm assuming you're talking about InDesign when you say -5, not Quark.
  created: '2008-02-11 16:51:39'
- author:
    name: writingdesigning
    picture: 112522
  body: "''Is there a specific reason we shouldn\u2019t be doing that?..\"\r\nI don't
    think there's one, as long as it looks good. \r\n\r\nIf it's Indesign, the other
    way of doing it is to go to 'Justification' from the 'Paragraph' tab and adjust
    Word and Letter spacing.    "
  created: '2008-02-11 18:02:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "If you are not familiar with the problems of typography, as you say you are
    not, one thing it is important to be aware of is that scale makes a big difference.
    A type can be excellent in display size, and less good or even horrible at at
    small size in extended text. \r\n\r\nIf you like the look in display you might
    consider using Mrs Eaves for display, but use another type in the text. "
  created: '2008-02-11 18:09:14'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026I know it draws attention to itself, but I like that it\u2019s
    full of character.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe problem is that the fabulous character the
    makes Mrs. Eaves so great as, for example, a business card typeface, can get really
    tedious after a while. The funky spacing and generous overshoots are really cute
    in small doses, but compound them with the high-contrast of the text and you\u2019re
    making a recipe for annoyance. Also, keep your printing techniques in mind; if
    this magazine is coming out of a not-so-great press on low-cost paper, as small
    magazines often are, the hairlines in a Baskerville will start to break up and
    disappear, especially if you use a color that isn\u2019t very dark. Topping it
    off, there\u2019s a very historical feel to any Baskerville design, and it\u2019s
    going to look very odd as body copy in a contemporary music and film magazine.
    \r\n\r\nConsider reserving Mrs. Eaves for flavor here and there in short articles,
    especially when the point size can be bumped up to compensate for magazine printing.
    But using it as body copy throughout probably won\u2019t work out too well. "
  created: '2008-02-11 20:04:23'
- author:
    name: Simon3W
    picture: 114230
  body: James that's a good point viz the dose. I may love it because it's a recent
    discovery. If I were to use it as a headline or display font, which serif font
    might work alongside it for body copy?
  created: '2008-02-11 20:26:22'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I think that you should do your designer the favor of letting him do the
    work you\u2019re paying him to do. He\u2019s a professional, and shouldn\u2019t
    have to deal with being second guessed by not only his client, but by an internet
    discussion in which he is not a participant. "
  created: '2008-02-11 20:37:57'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I'm with James there, where clients are concerned a little knowledge can be
    very dangerous. Makes me crazy when they try to educate me about fonts.
  created: '2008-02-11 21:13:38'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Mrs. Eaves is one of my favorite typefaces, but it is one of the worst spaced
    professionally released typefaces of the digital era. The spacing of the punctuation
    is especially jacked-up. \r\n\r\nSome people say the letterforms themselves are
    not good for small text, but that's nothing compared to the spacing issues. \r\n\r\n<em>where
    clients are concerned a little knowledge can be very dangerous.</em>\r\nJeez Patty,
    that one of the most elitist things I've heard in a while. Educating a client
    should look to make it easier for the designer, not harder.\r\n\r\n\"Yes, your
    designer is right. There are myriad reasons, such as such and such, why you should
    listen to your designer.\"\r\n\r\nHow does that harm the designer? In fact, it
    might even lead to a greater appreciation of type, and that leads to not only
    better typography, but better sales for the type designers.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-11 22:08:55'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I think you read into that a little deep, Dan. \r\n\r\nIt isn't a client
    who is educated that is the problem. It is a client who has read an article or
    two and thinks they are experts."
  created: '2008-02-11 22:14:53'
- author:
    name: Scalfin
    picture: 114154
  body: One thing the designer might not know about is fontin, though he might know
    how to get the permission to use it in a for-profit product.
  created: '2008-02-11 22:25:03'
- author:
    name: Simon3W
    picture: 114230
  body: "It's a fair point about letting the designer do his job, and I don't mean
    to make anyone believe that I think I have a proper understanding of the problems
    with this font. It's just that, in a sense, I'm not the real client -- my subscribers
    are, and I have to believe I understand them better than anyone. That's also what
    the designer believes (or how he flatters me) and he seems keen to get my input.
    Of course I discuss this with him, I'm just canvassing for a little opinion. Also,
    I wonder how much of this stuff comes down to fashion. I've heard a number of
    things said about Mrs Eaves that just aren\"t true, and they appear to have been
    said as much in reaction to its popularity as to its inappropriateness.\r\n\r\nEqually,
    not all designers have typography as a strength, and some advice from people who
    take it seriously has to be worth seeking.\r\n\r\nBear in mind that I was asking
    you to convince me! I wasn't looking for ammunition to use against my designer.
    We are both looking for font recommendations -- something with character that
    will hold up to this sort of use.\r\n\r\nI'm sorry if I've trodden on any toes
    -- I appreciate that I'd get uppity if a designer tried to teach me how to edit.
    I'm genuinely trying to take advantage of your knowledge."
  created: '2008-02-11 23:01:02'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<em>It is a client who has read an article or two and thinks they are experts.</em>\r\n\r\nBelieve
    me, my eyes roll whenever my editor tells me that there's \"too much white space\"
    or that Arial is the \"most legible typeface of all time\".\r\n\r\nBut that shouldn't
    discourage anyone from educating a non-designer, \"<cite>It\u2019s the designer\u2019s
    call, but I got a few books and read up just because typography interests me</cite>,\"
    who is looking specifically for help in understanding his designer's decision.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-11 23:04:33'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: Mrs. Eaves sometimes feels like Papyrus to me, except that by the grace of
    god it wasn't included in Windows, so it's only designers for the most part who
    abuse it. Same goes for Scala Sans. It's just a no-brainer go-to for designers
    working on another condo development or another organic product.
  created: '2008-02-12 01:30:14'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: My point is, if you're looking for something that feels like a historical
    revival, there are way better options out there. http://www.dstype.com/leitura.html
    -- dstype's Leitura, for example, or his not yet released Capsa http://www.dstype.com/workinprogress.html
  created: '2008-02-12 01:42:38'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Dan - way to overreact. I believe in educating the client as much as the
    next person. The problem comes, as Tiffany said, when the client thinks they know
    more than the designer. Or when they get an idee fixe about a design idea or a
    font and won't listen to other ideas. I had an editor recently who insisted the
    type be miniscule because that would make it look \"contemporary\". Another client
    who won't allow purple because he read somewhere that purple doesn't sell. I felt
    sorry for the designer of my mother's book after she showed me the galleys and
    I marked up everything that didn't work. Believe me the design was terrible and
    needed help desperately, but the last thing that poor designer needed was the
    author's daughter telling her what to do.\r\n\r\nIn any event, showing is always
    more effective than telling when it comes to design."
  created: '2008-02-12 03:24:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"it it\u2019ll be 11.5 on 11.5, with column widths of around 75mm\"\r\n\r\nNo
    leading on an open spaced face like Mrs Eaves is not the best idea. The open look
    and poor kerning will accentuate the flaws even more so when it is tightly set
    like you suggest. As the film title says, A River Runs Through It.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-12 03:39:41'
- author:
    name: writingdesigning
    picture: 112522
  body: "A large part of the fun of setting up and running your own publication, or
    any small enterprise for that matter, is the freedom it allows you to dabble in
    areas, which in a more formal structure, would be off-limits if you're a non-professional.\r\n\r\nAnd
    when you're doing that, it goes without saying that the results may not be the
    same as what a professional would have come up with. A year down you may not agree
    with your own earlier choices. \r\n\r\nIn this case, Simon's apparently working
    with a designer who's comfortable with his interventions. So I suppose it's a
    good way of growing."
  created: '2008-02-12 03:56:24'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: Have you looked at Tribute, also from Emigre. It has a similar funkiness,
    without some of the headache. Not a baskerville obviously, but worth a look.
  created: '2008-02-12 06:49:27'
- author:
    name: TypoJunkie
    picture: 112264
  body: "How about [[http://www.typetrust.com/fonts/font.php?id=NDg5|Epic]]. I bought
    it while it was on sale and absolutely love it; although I'm waiting for a REALLY
    nice project to use it in; so I couldn't tell you how it sits in the page or if
    it's the right one for you.\r\n\r\nHappy hunting!\r\n\r\nP.S. Josh's suggestion
    of using a typeface that has not been released made my day."
  created: '2008-02-12 13:58:30'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "FF Atma has a similar feel too - but I've never used it, don't own it, so
    I don't know its pitfalls.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/fontfont/ff_atma_serif_book/\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-12 14:30:36'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "I have Mrs. Eves and agree that it is loosey-goosey in terms of spacing.
    Not bad for setting small blocks of poetry.\r\n\r\nWhile they don't have the <em>same</em>
    character, two fonts you might want to look at are Cycles Eleven (no bold italic,
    though) and Freight Text Book. Both <strong>do</strong> have character and are
    some of the easiest reading and beautiful fonts I own when set at 11pt and below."
  created: '2008-02-12 19:25:49'
- author:
    name: adnix
    picture: 109591
  body: "Just don't overdo it on the ligatures.\r\n\r\nCookie Magazine in the U.S.
    uses Mrs Eaves for display type and a Garamond or Caslon for text. I don't have
    an issue in front of me, so I can't provide a sample.\r\n\r\nDavid"
  created: '2008-02-12 20:17:58'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Good point, David. Using historical alternates is always more irritating for
    the reader. Especially when that reader is me. ;^P Seriously. I've said it before
    and I'll say it again. Most historical alternates are not good for reading. The
    loops are too big or the spacing is off. Ok. Yes. I'm annoyed by them. I like
    to see them used for effect, but not in any sort of long read.
  created: '2008-02-12 20:39:46'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "\"Mrs. Eaves sometimes feels like Papyrus to me\"  (small chuckle).\r\n\r\nMrs
    Eaves (remember, no dot after Mrs) was originally one of my favorites to use,
    but I feel as if it has a really strong \"voice.\" It has this very sophisticated
    and stodgy attitude about itself. It has such a characteristic look, that i feel
    it wouldn't look right next to certain images or for certain topics. I've started
    feeling that way about a lot of Zuzana Licko typefaces (Emigre.com). Lately I've
    been leaning more towards H&FJ (typography.com). I haven't used them yet, but
    I love the type samples for Mercury and Chronicle."
  created: '2008-02-12 20:46:13'
- author:
    name: mr smith
    picture: 111553
  body: 'I agree with Cookie, Mrs Eaves won''t cut it for a body copy -- doesn''t
    set nicely. I wouldn''t write off Storm''s Baskerville, however, until you set
    a page in it. I find all of the Storm text faces work beautifully --  not boring
    at all. '
  created: '2008-02-12 21:34:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "What Dan said.\r\n\r\nIMO if you start off with something you like, you have
    a better chance of designing a page, and a magazine, that works as a whole, over
    time.\r\n\r\nI don't think the readability of faces can be considered apart from
    the layouts they're used in.\r\nPerhaps it is the very \"gappiness\" of Mrs Eaves
    that some find a flaw, which can be a virtue in the hands of other designers,
    and in the eyes of readers.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-12 23:03:02'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "@Chipman223: It used to be a favorite of mine as well. It's a go-to typeface
    for design students, because it has such an obvious \"fancy & sophisticated\"
    feel to it.\r\n\r\n@TypoJunkie: Glad to know I brought some joy to your world.
    All the coolest designers are using type that doesn't even exist yet. Which means
    a lot of white space..."
  created: '2008-02-13 01:02:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I think you may be bending over backwards a bit far there Nick.\r\n\r\nAlso
    Mrs eaves is looking more & more twee* to me over time. But that is just my taste...\r\n\r\n*chiefly
    British : affectedly or excessively dainty, delicate, cute, or quaint\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-13 02:27:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I think you may be bending over backwards a bit far there Nick.</em>\r\n\r\nAt
    least I haven't recommended Oneleigh :-)\r\n\r\nBut seriously, did you ever look
    at Garamond or Bembo?\r\nHow in the world those don't scare the pants off readers
    is beyond me.\r\nI can only assume they are blissfully oblivious of the details
    which typographers believe \"call attention to themselves\" -- or worse still,
    perhaps they do notice them, and actually enjoy reading text with a bit of flavour.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    no way is the hefty Mrs E \"twee\"."
  created: '2008-02-13 03:41:41'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Nick - I love Oneleigh and just bought it as a matter of fact. But it wouldn't
    work for magazine body copy. I may use it for a cookie cookbook. Wishing it had
    more fractions though. OSF don't make good fractions.
  created: '2008-02-13 03:53:02'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> At least I haven\u2019t recommended Oneleigh :-) </cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe
    you should - I would rather read Oneleigh than Mrs Eaves. Slightly strangely shaped
    letters are far better than poor spacing IMHO. Also Oneleigh has a vibe that is
    way more fun. But I would have to know more about what was driving this choice
    before etc. etc."
  created: '2008-02-13 05:20:26'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> BTW, no way is the hefty Mrs E \u201Ctwee\u201D. </cite>\r\n\r\nYes
    it is.  It is twee as F***. \r\n\r\nIt's not the weight but the sentiment. That's
    great for some things; but magazine copy, unless it's all frilly couches and forcing
    bulbs and small cottages (all things I have no quarrel with BTW ) - not so much. "
  created: '2008-02-13 05:25:25'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: "\"BTW, no way is the hefty Mrs E 'twee'.\"\r\n\r\nEben, I believe Nick was
    referring to the woman, not the font..."
  created: '2008-02-13 05:37:03'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Zuzana Licko is quoted as saying:\r\n\r\n\u201CI think Mrs Eaves was a mix
    of just enough tradition with an updated twist. It\u2019s familiar enough to be
    friendly, yet different enough to be interesting. Due to its relatively wide proportions,
    as compared with the original Baskerville, it\u2019s useful for giving presence
    to small amounts of text such as poetry, or for elegant headlines and for use
    in print ads. It makes the reader slow down a bit and contemplate the message.\"\r\n\r\nI
    think she is right.\r\n\r\n<cite> Eben, I believe Nick was referring to the woman,
    not the font...</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd what makes you say that?  Was she substantial?
    I have no idea what she was like in personality or form, but weight would not
    come into it."
  created: '2008-02-13 05:49:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I was talking about the typeface.\r\nI suppose its proportions--small x-height
    and long extenders--might make it a bit twee, but its low contrast and lack of
    fussy details certainly don't.\r\nIn comparison, the recent types derived from
    Fleischmann, which have been used for magazine text, have quite mannered details.\r\n\r\nBut
    really, I don't believe that one should say \"oh, such and such typeface can't
    be used for such and such kind of work\".\r\n\r\nHaving said that, I think Ms
    Licko's pushing it a bit to suggest Mrs Eaves for \"elegant headlines\", unless
    they're small headlines, as it doesn't have optical scaling."
  created: '2008-02-13 06:57:46'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "RE: Headlines That's a great point.\r\n\r\n<cite> But really, I don\u2019t
    believe that one should say \u201Coh, such and such typeface can\u2019t be used
    for such and such kind of work\u201D. </cite> I agree in general. There are choices
    that seem beyond good sense to me. I would almost certainly not set an entire
    novel in FF Amoeba for instance. \r\n\r\nAnd moreover how a typeface strikes me
    is individual. It's how your audience feels ( or client's ) audience feels that
    will count.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-13 07:14:51'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'All Emigre faces take real work with kerning especially larger sizes. At
    my site I use Tarzania Bold but it was a lot of work. I would think for a publication
    you wouldn''t have the luxury of adjusting the kerning with your deadlines. '
  created: '2008-02-13 14:42:02'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Yeah well that's where Quark comes in handy. For all it's maligned on this
    forum, Quark lets you adjust kerning pairs for each font universally. My in-house
    typesetter (when I was A.D. of a publishing house) used to go in and customize
    each font before she started. Hopefully InD will get with that program in the
    next upgrade.
  created: '2008-02-13 15:30:04'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Patty I had wondered about just that issue being new to InDesign. Thanks!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-13 15:41:33'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Those crazy overshoots make Mrs. Eaves twee as all-git-out. It sets some
    of the most crazy bouncy lines I\u2019ve ever seen."
  created: '2008-02-13 15:50:15'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I wonder why more bands don't use it, because according to Wikipedia, it's
    the very definition of Indie:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture-1_5446.gif]"
  created: '2008-02-13 18:33:49'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I think the age of twee must be over because you only get 6 months to be
    'in' now. Innit? ;-)\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.pitchforkmedia.com/article/feature/10242-twee-as-fuck\">
    Link is maybe NSFW. It uses that f word don't you know... </a>"
  created: '2008-02-13 18:47:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>crazy overshoots</em>\r\n\r\nSurely not in print. Are you talking about
    on-screen hinting?\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nInteresting text faces used in magazines:
    Goudy Old Style (Harpers), Tyfa (Fast Company).\r\n\r\nOthers?"
  created: '2008-02-13 22:29:19'
date: '2008-02-11 15:13:03'
title: Mrs Eaves -- save me from myself

---
