---
author:
  name: pattyfab
  picture: 109929
body: "Anybody over 35 will recognize at least a few of these... the rest of you kids
  just appreciate how good you've had it. On the other hand you'll all be wearing
  glasses by 30.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.drawger.com/show.php?show_id=32\r\n\r\nLoupes,
  brayers, rubylith, proportion wheels, haberrules, rubber cement thinner, rapidographs,
  and my sentimental favorite, the stat camera which launched my career. Another 80s
  artifact was the fact that my \"office\" became an after-hours hangout when the
  designers and A.D.s would come in to take advantage of the privacy and the large
  plate glass. Use your imagination. "
comments:
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Stat camera? Me too. I worked my way through school on one.\r\n\r\nGotta
    add this to the list though\u2014a real favorite for obvious reasons.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Opaline_6210.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-11 16:05:28'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: You should send that in. If I find the time I'm going to paw through the stuff
    in my art cabinet that I haven't quite been able to throw away either. I know
    I have a burnisher somewhere...
  created: '2008-02-11 16:16:30'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I'm only 34, and remember many of those. So, I just made the cut-off, I think.
    ;o)\r\n\r\nThe museum needs some keyline paper, a wax machine and border tape."
  created: '2008-02-11 17:31:46'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: I think I left a dry cleaning pad on a bookshelf at my parents place.
  created: '2008-02-11 17:37:53'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: They do have a waxer and border tape on there. Argh, beveling the corners
    of the scotch rules! Glad I don't still have to do that.
  created: '2008-02-11 17:48:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I have used everything in that picture Patty linked to except the green visor.
    The Lucie and fixative spray-by-mouth applicator bring back chuckles. Of course
    I am much closer to twice 35 than I am to 35 :-)\r\n\r\n ChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-11 18:01:06'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/regomarks_5780.jpg]\r\nWe used to line
    up print mechanical overlay sheets using registration marks from press-on sheets
    or from tape rolls.\r\n\r\nHey... we didn't need no stikin' software for color
    separation!"
  created: '2008-02-11 18:11:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: A lot of that stuff smelled real good, eh?
  created: '2008-02-11 18:44:12'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "It\u2019s sad that Pantone swatches are on there, but so many young designers
    I know don\u2019t bother to spec color properly that it makes sense."
  created: '2008-02-11 18:57:37'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Ah memories. I did some work myself with these and also grew up watching
    my dad''s employees work with them. Late at night, with lack of sleep, some things
    became weapons too. '
  created: '2008-02-11 19:11:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Norbert, We used to draw our own stinkin register targets with a drop-bow
    ruling pen! Wimp!!! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-11 19:13:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "T-squares at dawn, the duelling cry of the day :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-11 19:15:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dezoldschool_6476.jpg]\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-11 19:19:11'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "http://www.drawger.com/show.php?show_id=32&image_id=715\r\n\r\nHow do you
    measure type size with one of these?"
  created: '2008-02-11 19:26:15'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Nice, I own(ed) almost all of these items, plus some more. European brands
    of course. Takes one back\u2026\r\n\r\nBTW The handiest targets were those on
    a roll that had a stick-on counterpart included that would stick to the overlay's
    back. Using that must have saved me days of my life.\r\n\r\nI (partly) graduated
    on illustration work, printed in cmyk, with all seps done by hand (with ben day
    rub downs and so). Weeks of work. But I do know what a fles tone is made of (and
    that\u2019s something I still profit from).\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-02-11 19:38:11'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Haley - those were used to gauge leading and do quick line counts. Not for
    point size. There was another annoying tool for that, a glassine you put on top
    of the type. It had the standard fonts but wasn't all that reliable.\r\n\r\nThe
    thing was, you really needed all that stuff. Now you just need a laptop.\r\n\r\nThis
    one - not sure it belongs here... http://www.drawger.com/show.php?show_id=32&image_id=790\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-11 19:39:45'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Patty, my dad had an employee that didn''t quite understand that you could
    "layout" the work on the computer at that time. He only used the computer to "set
    the type" and then would proceed to wax it and play with line (word) spacing and
    everything. I got him in a little trouble when I showed my dad that it could all
    be done on the computer. ... Maybe that is why this little guy is listed. '
  created: '2008-02-11 19:46:13'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>This one - not sure it belongs here..</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm curling up
    in a ball thinking about that screen. My second job out of school was writing
    and editing a 2000 page, two-volume catalog using a SE. I still think that probably
    shaved a few years off my life.\r\n\r\nYes Tiffany, I included that cleaning pad
    partly because it leaves such a nice mark on the back of a black sweater."
  created: '2008-02-11 19:52:33'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I do remember that transition period, though. I remember setting type on
    the mac as galleys, then a bit later composing pages on the  Mac but still having
    to leave boxes for the FPOs, before we got a scanner. And the early Mac layout
    programs (eek remember Pagemaker) were pretty limited, not to mention the font
    selection.\r\n\r\nBut still, that little Mac doesn't qualify as \"forgotten\"
    in the same way as the rubber cement pick-up or transfer type."
  created: '2008-02-11 19:53:24'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "cool site but i must be an old fart 'cause i still use a few of these !\r\n\r\nwhen
    i draw (yes, by hand) storyboards i use ellipse templates, markers, pencils, erasers...
    \   am i the only one left ?  will smith will play me in the movie.\r\n\r\nand
    what's the pantone chip fan doing on there... these are still totally useful.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-11 19:58:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I used to teach a course years ago which included a section on copyfitting.
    One ofthe assignments I gave was to take a given typewriter written manuscript
    and specify the amount of space it would occupy after being set in type of a certain
    specification.\r\n\r\nYou had to be able to count and do arithmetic in those days
    to be a designer :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-11 20:00:39'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'The "little guy" I was referring to was the computer. '
  created: '2008-02-11 20:10:59'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: They need a Varityper headliner there, or at least one of the big circular
    type wheels that came with it. Like a Typositor, but without the hassles of worrying
    about kerning and such (there was none.)
  created: '2008-02-11 20:25:08'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Geez, I don't dare open my miscellaneous office drawer -- I know I've got
    a set of French curves in there, some really old lettering templates, a small
    Color-Aid pack, my old Staedler drawing pen set, and one of the plastic label
    makers that you had to rotate the dial to get every letter and then squeeze real
    hard.\r\n\r\n(OTOH, I just opened it, and found the Linotype slug of my name.
    In all-caps Helvetica.  Wow, I knew it was around somewhere.)"
  created: '2008-02-11 20:34:05'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "By an odd grace I skipped over all that stuff, even though I've been in this
    racket 40 years. I went from a letterpress composing room and pressroom right
    to a Macintosh in 1988. I knew all that stuff was out there, but it was never
    used in any shop I worked in. I have a drawer full of it here, though, for my
    predecessor was in this office for 30 years, and he left it all behind, even color
    charts from before the days of the zip code. & a slide rule!\r\n\r\nI have made
    maybe 3 mechanicals in my life. When that necessity arose I took a shirt cardboard,
    squared it up on the kitchen counter, and attempted to paste things down straight
    with a carpenter's square and whatever glue was around the house.\r\n\r\nAnd I
    am really glad I did not have to do that, for I am too clumsy. I could work well
    with small bits of metal type, and I loved it. But all that thin paper, good lord,
    what a time I had with it.\r\n\r\nI still do keep a sandpaper block on my desk
    to sharpen that red pen when I mark proofs, though.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2008-02-11 20:34:05'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I just found my haberrule, along with some non-repro blue pens, a burnisher,
    a brayer, some dot labels, X-acto knife + blades, assorted triangles and circle
    templates, a proportion wheel, my collection of Rapidographs no doubt clogged
    plus some ink. My T-square is gathering dust around here somewhere.\r\n\r\nTo
    be complete, you'd also need all the various assorted papers: matte board, mechanical
    board, vellum, acetate, tracing paper for cover sheets, foam core, plus a roll
    of white artists tape.\r\n\r\nAnd let's not forget spray mount. And those white
    cotton pads to remove the wax and rubber cement. And a good cutting board.\r\n\r\nAnd
    bandaids for all the slips with the X-acto."
  created: '2008-02-11 20:50:25'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> When that necessity arose I took a shirt cardboard, squared it up on the
    kitchen counter, and attempted to paste things down straight with a carpenter\u2019s
    square and whatever glue was around the house.\r\n\r\nAnd submitted it to our
    print shop. You don't want to know what we said when we saw it. :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-11 20:50:36'
- author:
    name: sondre m
    picture: 114087
  body: hey, I'm 20 and I got a polaroid camera (much loved)
  created: '2008-02-11 21:07:07'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: I love the smell of...paste-up wax...in the morning.
  created: '2008-02-11 22:17:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Bestine cocktail anyone?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-11 23:22:35'
- author:
    name: Rodrigue Planck
    picture: 109713
  body: "Ok,\r\nI'm not always smart, I never figured out how to use a percentage
    scale. However, I learned better that still helps me out today, a calculator and
    this formula:\r\ndesired size / actual size. \r\nWorks in every type of measurement
    too. No round scale for me, no way! I'm modern!\r\n\r\nRemember rubboff type,
    kinda like custom Letraset? I did a lot of that, talk about bestine cocktail X8!
    \r\n\r\n\r\nWhere is the fat type specimen? You know, the ones with all the funny
    numbers to spec type with usually 1,500-3,000 fonts? Then the one line specimens?
    I speced type too, you digital sons of a guns, who never had to do that!\r\n\r\nAny
    Ruby tape? C'mon people! :) It's cheap now!\r\n\r\nI still like E scales. \r\n\r\nI
    use a 54 year old ruler (still the best!) Metal, my last name on it! Set in Eurostile,
    while it was still new. \r\n\r\n\r\nHope people still use Pantone guides, at least
    in a pressroom?\r\n\r\n\r\nThe Truth shall set you free"
  created: '2008-02-12 01:56:07'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Patty, I've got all the paper and board stuff, but that's because I bind
    my own....  ;-)\r\n\r\nuuuuuummmmmmm. Paste-up wax!  First one in the office turned
    it on."
  created: '2008-02-12 02:29:11'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Rodrigue - the proportion wheel was for scaling - if you knew your actual
    dimensions and desired width you could calculate the height. I figured out how
    to do it on a calculator too which was much more precise.\r\n\r\nI hope people
    use Pantone books too. It's the only way to know what you're getting with print."
  created: '2008-02-12 03:29:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I still use my proportion wheel but not for sizing pictures as I used to,\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-12 03:42:46'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I still have a lot of that old stuff from the Seventies and Eighties--french
    curves, ellipse templates, eraser guides, dividers...\r\n\r\nThe little Mac in
    the museum is appropriate in my case: On my first Mac, before DTP software was
    invented, I set up a spreadsheet in Microsoft Multiplan (the predecessor to Excel)
    to calculate run-arounds and mortise cuts for spec'ing type for layouts and other
    copyfitting tasks at the magazine I worked at. I also did thumbnail layouts and
    other preliminary design stuff in MacPaint. I had one of those famous Mac bags
    and lugged the thing back and forth to work every day. The idea of a company putting
    a computer on an art director's desk hadn't come yet, but they didn't mind if
    I brought one from home."
  created: '2008-02-12 04:16:36'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I'll be turning 36 this year. I trained on all that sort of stuff when I was
    in high school and then BAM, it was al worthless. Well no, not really. I still
    have most of it though, Even one of those famous Mac bags.
  created: '2008-02-12 06:05:21'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "I used to have a \"handy\" hand operated wax machine. It had a handle with
    the electric cord coming in the way all the time. Also, once hot, it was essential
    not to knock it over. In an earlier job we had a table model, which had huge amount
    of small pieces of paper floating in the wax \u2013 all escaped from careless
    paste-up artists in a rush. In that room we made paste-ups for daily newspaper
    ads for a department store.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-12 10:55:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hi Mili! Sounds like you had a real Wax Museum there :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-12 13:34:23'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "My Opaline is a STAR baby!\r\n\r\n(That Linotype book looks nice. Any guesses
    as to what year approx. it might be from?)"
  created: '2008-02-12 14:51:57'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "I still use my roller - I find that when making newsletters for local clubs
    - it gives me the best fold mark!\r\n\r\nBTW - just in - Berkley Books still uses
    their waxer - but wait... it's for...\r\n\"For attaching comps to boards for meetings.\""
  created: '2008-02-12 14:58:24'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "><cite>My Opaline is a STAR baby!</cite>\r\n\r\nWe've got one of those in
    our office supply cabinet... but is by Koh I nor and is green... Always wondered
    what it was for :-)\r\n\r\nWe've also go boxes of Lettraset and Geotype, (type,
    drafting symbols, halftone film and colour overlay film, custom printed logos)
    and some other cool stuff.  WE keep up with the times - just not as they happen.\r\n\r\nI'll
    be taking photos.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-02-14 04:20:03'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "You all cave people!\r\n\r\nI was forced to work with some of this \"tools\"
    on the first three semesters of graphic design scool altough I started doing some
    \"design\" in highschool with word and as a kid with paint.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2008-02-14 05:22:00'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: This was, of course, after we slogged the six miles to work in the snow. But
    a quart of milk in those days was only a nickel. And then after work we'd gather
    around the wireless and drink soda pop out of the icebox.
  created: '2008-02-14 14:22:39'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "\u2026and then we would get up thirty minutes before we went to bed at night
    and do it again.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-14 14:30:10'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Cowabunga!  We used to ride our horses days to get to work, shoed them ourselves,
    lived in sod huts, and ate pemmican.  For fun, we'd play hockey on frozen lakes
    with hockey sticks held together with duct tape.
  created: '2008-02-14 14:36:39'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "You had duct tape? We used string.\r\nAnd we skiied to work/school across
    the lake Summers and Winters. Sometimes the snow and ice would melt, and we were
    forced to eithr swim the 10 km or go around the lake."
  created: '2008-02-14 15:12:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Schools? You had Schools! We had torturous pits of vipers and demons with
    whips beating us bloody until we begged to use rubber cement and a T-squarre :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-14 15:18:16'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: You had whips? Oh, never mind :^D
  created: '2008-02-14 15:29:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-14 15:32:34'
- author:
    name: akma
    picture: 110015
  body: "<cite>I was forced to work with some of this \u201Ctools\u201D on the first
    three semesters of graphic design scool altough I started doing some \u201Cdesign\u201D
    in highschool with word and as a kid with paint.</cite>\r\n\r\nMy first exposure
    to tools like these came from my elementary-school classes in Mechanical Drawing
    (alternating with Woodshop) back in the 60's. I developed a chronic obsession
    with drawing tools, and the years I spent working in a graphic arts house with
    all the implements we've been reminiscing about were among the most intensely
    satisfying of my adult life -- with regard to office supplies, anyway.\r\n\r\nI
    learned a lot from those years, including the trick of using non-repro blue pens
    to annotate books and photocopies, in case I want to make copies for my students
    (and don't want them to know what I thought noteworthy). It's been years, though,
    since I talked to an art supplies store clerk who knew what \"non-repro blue\"
    means; I have to track down the correct shade from the shelf myself."
  created: '2008-02-14 15:38:21'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>non-repro <strong>blue</strong></em>\r\nBlue? When I started work,
    the color blue wasn't invented yet!\r\nWe marked up our mechanicals with dried
    plant roots and mastodon chips."
  created: '2008-02-14 15:44:57'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "ah, yes: The old days... I once knew a person who cut his finger quite badly
    with an Exacto knife while doing some paste-up. His boss, thinking on his feet
    ran to his side, grabbed the art work and took it away before he could get blood
    on it. \r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-02-14 16:01:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Ah, yes those modern Xacto knives were quite a bit sharper than the stone
    knives we had to use when I was first working, Rus,  and our mastadon chips hadn't
    even begun to hardon yet, Norbert :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-14 16:18:04'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Maybe they should have made non-repro red and azure-lith. Isn't there a filter
    for changing the physics of light waves?\r\n\r\nI still have a little terror every
    time I hear a knife rolling. I got a couple in the foot along the way. My table
    now sits perfectly flat."
  created: '2008-02-14 16:19:35'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "and remember those wild reed atomizers ?\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CaveHand_4881.png]"
  created: '2008-02-14 17:17:15'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "James, don't you have one of those triangular rubber things that slides onto
    the X-acto to keep it from slipping? Saved a few toes in its day. Mine says SAM
    FLAX in a nice slab serif.\r\n\r\nOf course that doesn't keep you from dropping
    it."
  created: '2008-02-14 17:18:00'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Triangular rubber things that slides onto the X-acto to keep it from slipping?\r\n\r\nWow,
    those obviously never made it to Finland. Our Graphic Designer's School made a
    trip to Japan at the end of the studies, and I found in Tokyo a beautiful X-acto
    Gripster knife with a square bit in the end to stop it from rolling. I still have
    it (and the more traditional one, too)."
  created: '2008-02-14 17:49:04'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Those kinda get in my way and annoy me. I'm livin' on the edge!
  created: '2008-02-14 17:58:55'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: The razor's edge!
  created: '2008-02-14 18:18:12'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Right along with W. Somerset Maugham and Aerosmith!
  created: '2008-02-14 18:36:57'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: I am surprised I am still alive with all the chemicals I have been exposed
    to. I would suggest the youth of today should look into the biohazards of your
    working environment today. Radiation, sprays, chemicals!
  created: '2008-02-14 19:44:06'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "The youth of today is frying its eyeballs looking at screens, large and small.
    Then there is the electromagnetic issue - cell phones glued to the ear, eyes glued
    to the screen. Different type of hazard. Not so hard on the lungs tho.\r\n\r\nIt
    really used to creep me out how quickly Bestine dried on my skin, leaving that
    faint white tint."
  created: '2008-02-14 20:08:14'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: i think i had (probably sitll have) all those things in the photo, too, except
    the gary paper doll (that thing's weird!)... never wore the visor, though. but
    a lot of people i know did.
  created: '2008-02-14 20:23:05'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: the visor looks great with arm garters & spats !
  created: '2008-02-14 20:27:42'
- author:
    name: Berg
    picture: 112334
  body: " It's nice to see a picture of the first Macintosh I had, with 124k of memory
    and an external hard drive, my friends didn't understand why I spent so much money
    on a gadget with no future...\r\n I still use sometimes some of those tools, the
    metal ruler, exacto, even the rubber cement and the roller, I also love drawing
    with the sergent-major pen, I still have a boxfull of them.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SergentMajor_5188.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-15 00:43:41'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Remember when Flax had a store in Sunnyvale?\r\nI miss that place."
  created: '2008-02-15 07:34:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "No mention of Cow gum? You could do your paste-up and get as high as a kite
    in a badly ventilated room. Then, when it was dry, you could get all the superfluous
    dry rubber off with an existing giant dirty rubber ball. Kids today? - Don't know
    they're born.\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2008-02-15 12:32:30'
- author:
    name: Richard Hards
    picture: 110084
  body: "I'd quite forgotten about the Cow Gum until you mentioned it Nick. I'm sure
    I've got a tin somewhere, but I can't find it.\r\n\r\nI did find these though\u2026[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fix_6318.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/photopaque_6162.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/enamel_5433.jpg]and
    last but not least, two stainless steel stencil knives. Originally for hand cutting
    Autotype Amber and Green, and Rubylith. Still used every day to weed out computer
    cut Rubylith and self-adhesive vinyl.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/stencil
    knives_4305.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-15 14:52:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What, no Rubber Cement Pick-up square? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-15 14:52:57'
- author:
    name: umlautthoni
    picture: 111959
  body: "Am I too late? Do these count?\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/grphctoolkit_6579.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/gerber_6266.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-15 15:00:37'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Here's a drawing office classic!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arclight2_5745.jpg]\r\n_______________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2008-02-20 11:40:42'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/08_02_20 025_3775.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/08_02_20
    031_4389.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/08_02_20 041_5148.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/08_02_20
    043_5289.jpg]\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-02-21 03:57:23'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Dude those are some of my favorite toys right there.\r\n\r\nI don't know
    what I'd do without an electric eraser. \r\n\r\nI find it easier to make my own
    transfer paper though. Saral is a little waxy and hard to paint over sometimes,
    even the graphite flavored one. For other colors I get stuff from the fabric store."
  created: '2008-02-21 05:07:28'
date: '2008-02-11 15:51:43'
title: The Museum of Forgotten Art Supplies

---
