---
author:
  name: newbie_chez
  picture: 110329
body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nJust started a new job working for a property firm, I have been
  given a long Word document which has various styles and formatting that is very
  inconsistent.\r\n\r\nThe document looks like formal corporate documentation which
  has lots of numbered, indented paragraphs ie. \r\n\r\n1.1 Blah blah blah\r\n\r\n1.2
  Blah blah blah\r\n\r\nLots of bulleted lists, other sublists with dashes etc. I
  am used to typesetting from Indesign but they want me to use Word here. \r\n\r\nDoes
  anyone know any good web or book resources about Styles and Formatting in Word?\r\n\r\nI
  want it to look perfect but it is rather fiddly in this program.\r\n\r\nIn Indesign
  you can click a command using a crosshair character and everything will indent to
  that point, (I can't remember the exact command). If anyone knows any shortcuts
  to get all the paragraphs in line please advise.\r\n\r\nThere is also an annoying
  problem, with the dashed lists, like HANGING INDENTS - something I hate and want
  to eliminate in the quickest way possible throughout the document!\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: "I'm SO sorry. (not sarcasm) Good luck with that...\r\n\r\nOur condolences."
  created: '2008-02-11 21:38:26'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I'm by no means an expert, but what you need/want to do is define the built-in
    Word styles and have the document creators/maintainers use them. It'd be akin
    to using styles in XPress or InDesign...though without the same level of detail,
    unfortunately, ;o)\r\n\r\nWith styles, you can control indents and the like."
  created: '2008-02-11 21:40:33'
- author:
    name: newbie_chez
    picture: 110329
  body: "Yes it's not as good as InDesign of course. :)\r\n\r\nIt is the same as doing
    web publishing without Dreamweaver and Flash, not designed for designers!"
  created: '2008-02-11 21:43:26'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Unfortunately, there doesn't seem to be any commercial printed resources
    for newer versions of Word, although the DIY approach was quite normal when did
    this 15 or so years ago. \r\n\r\nIn particular, I worked on a lot of hardcore
    nasty scientific documentation with just Word, and the only way we ever found
    to deal with it consistently (multiple, large volumes from diverse authors, to
    be co-ordinated into one package) was to turn off the automatic numbering stuff
    (print out a hard copy first, so you know what and where your head levels are),
    and code it manually. \r\n\r\nKill all the generic Word styles and create your
    own as well, since they won't have the autonum features.  After I print out a
    reference copy, I generally dispose of all formatting, then start with a Body
    style (make the whole thing this style to start, once you've got it), devolve
    whatever I want for indents/points/quotes from that, and then create a series
    of heads after that (starting from biggest to smallest is easiest, I've found),
    and tag them as you go along.\r\n\r\nYes, it's fiddly -- you might even find it
    worth your while to create a dummy document to do all this in, then paste your
    styles as a template into the \"real\" document, but any other approach will leave
    you tearing your hair out as some point.\r\n\r\nAnd unless you want your friends
    to call you \"Baldy\".....  ;-)"
  created: '2008-02-12 03:40:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "How long is long? If you're looking at less than 100 pages, I'd suggest stripping
    all formatting - cut and paste it in and out of Notepad - and as Linda said print
    out a copy (or view a copy side by side if your monitor is big enough) as you
    apply newly defined styles.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2008-02-12 05:45:48'
- author:
    name: newbie_chez
    picture: 110329
  body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nIt's about 180 pages long. Not tooo bad I guess!\r\n\r\nI managed
    to amend and create new styles whilst working with the current template. But next
    time I will probably clear all formatting, and start from scratch as you suggested.\r\n\r\nIndeed
    the Word Styles don't let you do as much but they are still a timesaver.\r\n\r\nLinda
    - thanks in particular for the detailed advice - I am all about detail! So it's
    up to me to make Word work hard!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-12 21:58:12'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "180 pages?  Hah!  We did upwards of 50 topics, with 1-20 volumes for each,
    and anything from 50 to 500 pages for each volume. ;-)  Five senior editors, twelve
    junior editors, and upwards of 40 different formatters, tinkering the words of
    more than 100 authors -- for stuff like that, you really need a serious plan and
    have everyone sign on to it....\r\n\r\nFinding the easiest way to do it saved
    us weeks.\r\n\r\nTruth be told, when we were notified that Word was going to be
    the program of choice, more than a few of us were not happy, but it's really quite
    amazing what you can beat it into submission to do.\r\n\r\nThe most important
    thing is to format your own Body style in the beginning and to make that the default
    style for all the text -- it sets the tone for everything else you want to do
    and lets you figure out where (and how) in the hierarchy you want to move things
    up and down. Probably 85% of hardcore documentation is this style anyway...."
  created: '2008-02-13 04:48:55'
- author:
    name: newbie_chez
    picture: 110329
  body: "Wow.. that sounds intensive! You must know all the tricks of InDesign! I
    know it sounds tedious to some people but there is something I really like about
    tweaking all the details to perfection.\r\n\r\nI have got the draft back with
    amendments (sound familiar?) and I am trying to start the page numbering on the
    contents page (which is page 3 of the document), but I can't do it?\r\n\r\nPlease
    can you help?\r\n\r\nI tried for about 3 hours today!"
  created: '2008-02-15 19:55:11'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: "Basically, what you do to create a page number is go to <strong>Insert >
    Page Numbers > Format</strong>, select the number format you want (<strong>Number
    format</strong>), and then, under <strong>Page numbering</strong>, click the <strong>Start
    at</strong> radio button, then use the spinner to select the page number you want.\r\n\r\nThe
    above procedure puts the page number in a floating frame in the footer. If you
    don't like the floating frame, the alternative method is to show the header and
    footer toolbar (doubleclick on a header or a footer, or go to <strong>View > Header
    and Footer</strong>) and use the options there. This creates the page number inline.\r\n\r\nIf
    there's already a page number somewhere that you're trying to change, use the
    cursor to select the entire page number and then do the steps in the first paragraph
    above.\r\n\r\nThis is a little more complicated if you have sections and want
    different page numbering schemes in different sections, but the procedure is basically
    as described above.\r\n\r\n(Later edit: If you inadvertently create a page number
    in a floating frame when you really wanted it inline, you can cut the page number
    out of the frame, paste the number where you want it, and delete the frame. Also,
    a page number doesn't always have to be in a header or a footer; you can cut it
    out of the header or footer and paste it into the body text. But unless the page
    number is in a header or a footer, it will only show up on that one page. However,
    you can copy an in-body page number to as many different pages as you want and
    it will increment correctly.)"
  created: '2008-02-15 21:15:11'
- author:
    name: newbie_chez
    picture: 110329
  body: "Hi I tried it but it says page 3 on the contents page. It is technically
    page 3 but I want it to start the numbering from here, so it should say \"1\".\r\n\r\nDoes
    this make sense?"
  created: '2008-02-15 21:21:28'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: "I think I see what you want to do. I had unconsciously assumed that it was
    OK to have the first two pages numbered 1 and 2.\r\n\r\nIf you want the pages
    before the contents page to be unnumbered, you'll have to put in a section break
    (<strong> Insert > Break > Next page</strong>) as the very last thing on the page
    immediately before the contents page. You want all the pages before the contents
    page to be in section 1, and the contents page to be the first page in section
    2.\r\n\r\n(When working with section breaks, it really helps to show all the formatting
    marks. You can show formatting marks either by clicking the <strong>Show/Hide</strong>
    button on the <strong>Standard</strong> toolbar, or by going to <strong>Tools
    > Options > Formatting marks</strong> and selecting <strong>All</strong>.)\r\n\r\nNext
    (assuming the page number should be in the footer), go into the footer in section
    2 and disconnect it from the footer in section 1. (You can also disconnect the
    header if  you want or need to.) You do the disconnect by clicking the <strong>Same
    as Previous</strong> button on the <strong>Header and Footer</strong> toolbar;
    the button should <em>not</em> have a blue background and outline. If the headers
    or footers are still connected, there will be a <strong>Same as Previous</strong>
    message at the corner of the dotted box around the header/footer; you want that
    message to go away.\r\n\r\nAfter you have the footers (and/or headers) disconnected,
    make sure you're in section 2 and then follow the steps I described earlier (beginning
    with <strong>Insert > Page Numbers > Format</strong>). Don't put the page numbers
    in before doing the disconnect or you'll have to go back and delete them from
    section 1.\r\n\r\nIf you want to stop the page numbering at some point after the
    contents page, or change the page number format, you'll have to put in another
    section break and disconnect the headers/footers at the appropriate point."
  created: '2008-02-15 22:59:10'
- author:
    name: Thomas Levine
    picture: 112734
  body: I hardly ever use Microsoft Word, so I don't know how bad it is. If it isn't
    powerful enough, you can open it in OpenOffice Writer; the style management in
    there seems pretty good.
  created: '2008-02-16 02:21:33'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Gus nailed it, so take your pick....\r\n\r\n(Thomas -- Word can actually
    do this stuff, but it helps if you know how and where to beat it into submission.
    Heck, even old versions of WordPerfect can do this job....)"
  created: '2008-02-16 05:05:26'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Linda, those are really great tips... When I was working in multilingual
    DTP, I had to work on many documents that had been created in MS Word, and had
    to pretty much figure things out as I went along.\r\n\r\nCheryl, to the fine advice
    already posted here, I might add:\r\n\r\nTurn on invisible characters and make
    sure the margins and borders of text areas are showing up (I think that last one
    is under Tools > View, but it's been a while). Also, the Paragraph Format dialog
    box comes in handy for dealing with lots of things, like leading and hanging indents.
    Press the Alt/Option key while dragging tab arrows or boxes, to place things precisely
    where you want (rather than where the program wants).\r\n\r\nAlso, there is a
    handy little <a href=\"http://www.oreilly.com/catalog/wordpg2/\">Word Pocket Guide</a>
    from O'Reilly... (There might be more than one edition, but I'm not sure.) Might
    be of use to you for the next project."
  created: '2008-02-16 05:19:13'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Word can actually do this stuff, but it helps if you know how and where
    to beat it into submission.</em>\r\n\r\nThe separatrix strikes again!  ;-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-16 05:23:27'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>I know it sounds tedious to some people but there is something I really
    like about tweaking all the details to perfection.</em>\r\n\r\nAh, you've got
    the typesetting bug, or maybe the typesetting gene... \r\nWelcome to Typophile.
    \ :-)"
  created: '2008-02-16 05:25:38'
- author:
    name: newbie_chez
    picture: 110329
  body: "Thanks for the clear instructions! I finally got it to work using this method.\r\n\r\nI
    don't find the numbering system in Word very intuitive but now that I've just
    grasped how to do Sections it makes more sense. \r\n\r\nRicardo - yes I definitely
    have the bug! :o) At work I'm the only creative one in the office so it is nice
    to find like-minded people here who know how to set beautiful type.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-16 12:57:05'
- author:
    name: newbie_chez
    picture: 110329
  body: "I need to put some paragraphs of this document in boxes, what is the easiest
    way to ensure consistency? Is it better to set up a style or insert a table every
    time the text needs to be in a box? \r\n\r\nFor example:\r\n\r\n1.1    Text text
    text text \r\n\r\n1.2    More text but needs to have a black border around it,
    in line with the rest of the body text.\r\n\r\nAny tips would be much appreciated.
    All boxed text should have the same border, indentation from the left and a small
    inset from the edge of the box so that the text doesn't look like it is touching
    the edges!!"
  created: '2008-02-17 20:51:36'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Glad to see some people actually admitting that Word CAN actually do a lot
    of things... it's just that you have to know what you're doing to get it to do
    them. I spent 4 years doing technical radiocommunications manuals in Word, and
    the ONLY difficulty is the handover between the documenter who knows what they're
    doing in Word and the content author who doesn't, and who hands you back your
    file with everything screwed up after they were only supposed to be adding a paragraph
    here or there...\r\n\r\nCheryl, you could do either of those options. Setting
    up a style will take a little longer at the start but be waaay quicker in the
    long run. As part of the style definition you can set a border (thickness, colour,
    distance from text on each side, etc.) Don't forget that once you've set up the
    'Boxed' style you can give it a keyboard shortcut so you can apply it really quickly
    without reaching away from the keyboard to the mouse.\r\n\r\nIt you get any specific
    Word probs, google for \"Woody's Lounge\"; the MS Office experts on there are
    really knowledgeable and can help set up complex time-saving macros for practically
    any repetitive task.\r\n_____________________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2008-02-18 16:59:28'
- author:
    name: newbie_chez
    picture: 110329
  body: "Hullo\r\n\r\nLooks like I am lumbered with Word for the meantime as the authors
    want to keep working this way. \r\n\r\nI am getting better at using it thanks
    to this forum and knowing what I want to achieve. The only thing is adapting to
    Word controls.\r\n\r\nI would like to ask a question. As you have worked with
    journals, how do you go about formatting Contents pages? Do you just set up the
    style as you go along, depending on what you think looks good? Or do you ever
    use preset styles and modify them?\r\n\r\nI tried the first option but I am sure
    I did it the slow and amateur way .. !\r\n\r\nStill much prefer InDesign but the
    journals and docs I am producing in Word look ok :)\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-18 21:02:55'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Well, the journals work (thankfully) is handled by our overseas setters who
    work in InDesign and 3B2, so I don't have to worry about Word TOCs any more. But,
    from back in the day: your template will have a bunch of TOC paragraph styles
    built in. Assuming you've used proper heading styles for your headings, you can
    then let Word build the TOC for you (in Word 2003 it's at <em>Insert > Reference
    > Index and Tables</em>); the best option is to choose to use the styles \"From
    template\". The initial result will probably look naff, because by default it'll
    be single-spaced, full text measure, with dot leaders running right the way across
    to the page number aligned with the right margin. But you can fix the format after
    you've generated it.\r\n\r\nEach style in Word has a setting \"Update automatically\"
    and for most styles this is an absolute no-go area and should always be switched
    off (it means that if you apply direct, manual formatting somewhere, it changes
    the style definition to match it), but in the TOC styles it's actually worth leaving
    switched on because you know the only page(s) where the TOC styles will be used,
    and you can then just pull in the left and right indents, adjust the paragraph
    spacing, etc, in one line, and have the other parts of the TOC update to match.\r\n\r\nFirst
    thing, having created the TOC, though: recent versions of Word make ALL parts
    of the TOC into hyperlinks to the relevant sections, which is annoying when you're
    trying to restyle the TOC, so you need to switch this off so that only the page
    number is a hyperlink, like in old versions. Use the keyboard to put the selection
    point somewhere in the TOC and then press ALT+F9 to toggle to seeing the field
    code: delete the bit that says \"\\h \" and then ALT+f9 back again, then F9 alone
    and choose to \"update entire table\". Then you can select bits of the TOC and
    horse about with their formatting to your heart's content. The dot leaders can
    be a bit naff, but you can select them all (in one go, because they're a format
    associated with a single tab stop) and expand the character spacing to loosen
    them up a bit.\r\n\r\nAnother thing for speeding up repetitive formatting: you
    can \u2018copy' and \u2018paste' formatting: not with the \"format painter\" tool,
    which switches off the moment you do something else (like type some text) but
    by selecting something and hitting CTRL+SHIFT+C. That copies the formatting. Then
    at any time after that you can do CTRL+SHIFT+V to paste it onto other selections.\r\n______________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2008-02-19 11:19:18'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "Actually, if you double-click the Format Painter tool, it will stay selected
    until you double-click it again.\r\n\r\n\r\nJust to add to what dtw above says,
    macros can really speed up the process.\r\n\r\nFor example, I have used macros
    to reformat existing tables with specific text styles, borders and shading; to
    insert landscape pages into a portrait document; to pull in content from databases.\r\n\r\nYou
    could also assign frequently used styles to a toolbar, or keyboard shortcuts.\r\n\r\nThe
    \"Styles and Formatting\" task pane, when set to show \"formatting in use\", is
    handy for tracking down formatting glitches - text that is not set to one of your
    approved styles."
  created: '2008-02-19 15:18:36'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "All good points Elliott.\r\n\r\n<cite>Actually, if you double-click the Format
    Painter tool, it will stay selected until you double-click it again.</cite>\r\n\r\nTrue,
    and also handy, but still not as handy as being able to do \"work, paste format,
    work, paste format, work, scroll, switch away, switch back, paste format...\"\r\n\r\nAnd,
    although Print Layout View is essential for seeing real page positioning, Normal
    View can be set up with the Style Area down the left-hand edge, which gives you
    a quick overview of which style is applied to each paragraph. So if the text looks
    fully formatted, but <em>everything</em> says \u2018Normal', you know a lot of
    manual formatting has been applied and needs fixing."
  created: '2008-02-19 16:17:16'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: 'Wow, great thread - thanks for all the word tips!  My boyfriend''s small
    sorbet business needs a flavor list template that future non-designers can edit,
    and I was at a loss, since I''d always found Word to mangle type beautifully.  Seems
    that it''s my ignorance that''s to blame.  '
  created: '2008-02-19 22:48:23'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: "Some other style-related tips that come to mind:\r\n\r\n1. If you have a
    document with a style or styles that you like, you can copy that style or those
    styles into any other document using the style organizer (<strong>Tools > Templates
    and Add-Ins > Organizer</strong>). This is also a fast way to delete all the styles
    from an existing document, rather than deleting them one-by-one using the Styles
    and Formatting pane. Just make sure you have the correct files open in both the
    source (left-hand) and target (right-hand) panes; by default, Word opens normal.dot
    in the target pane, and there are few things more aggravating than nuking the
    styles in your carefully-constructed normal template.\r\n\r\n2. You can find and
    replace styles (<strong>Ctrl+H</strong> or <strong>Edit > Replace</strong>).\r\n\r\n3.
    You won't see any styles listed down the left-hand side of the screen in Normal
    view unless you first go to <strong>Tools > Options > View > Outline and Normal
    options</strong> and set the <strong>Style area width</strong> to something other
    than zero."
  created: '2008-02-19 23:38:15'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>I was at a loss, since I\u2019d always found Word to mangle type beautifully.
    Seems that it\u2019s my ignorance that\u2019s to blame.</em>\r\n\r\nDon't blame
    it all on personal ignorance... Those Word programmers worked extra hard to place
    menu items and commands where you'd least expect them to be! :-D"
  created: '2008-02-20 05:05:42'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Ricardo's right: the default toolbars are chock-full of near-useless or downright
    dangerous controls (*cough* bullets and numbering *cough*), while dead-handy ones
    are hidden away in the depths of the \"customise\" dialog where you've got to
    (a) know in advance of their existence and (b) have enough of an idea of their
    name to be able to find them...\r\n\r\n______________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2008-02-20 09:28:49'
date: '2008-02-11 21:05:01'
node_type: forum
title: Typesetting corporate documentation in WORD!

---
