---
author:
  name: sverri
body: "Hello typophiles!\r\n\r\nI was at first a little hesitant about asking about
  this in the fear of perhaps not being relevant enough. I've decided, however, that
  I'll at least give it a try anyway.\r\n\r\nAlrighty, my situation. I'm currently
  writing an assignment paper about typography: Its history throughout the centuries,
  notable persons, font faces, Movable Type, ligatures, and so on. So far I've come
  through it with all my limbs intact, although my sleeping routine might've been
  affected a little--it's been a good ride, though!\r\n\r\nThe paper. The place where
  I live isn't exactly known for typographic literacy, so I kind of look at my paper
  as an exclamation mark... a statement, of sorts. The problem is that the exclamation
  mark is missing its dot, it feels not quite finished yet. So I thought I'd pose
  the question:\r\n\r\nHow does the future of typography look?\r\n\r\nIt's been rather
  easy to research the past, information being relatively easy to obtain and all,
  and the current is a piece of cake, but I find it's hard to imagine how it's going
  to develop. I've covered in my paper how typography currenty works on the internet
  and on various devices, which, to me, seems quite futuristic already (although it
  has numerous limitations).\r\n\r\nWhen I think of the future, holographic displays
  and such comes to mind, but it doesn't say so much about typography. I can imagine
  that Sans-Serif fonts probably will become way more popular (in some areas in Europe
  it's become normal to use them in print, for example), but I also see fonts perhaps
  becoming more sofisticated or more/less imaginative, but in what fashion I cannot
  seem to get my head around.\r\n\r\nSo, if I could get a few moments from your time,
  I'd really appreciate it if you scribbled down what you think about the future of
  typography. Thanks!"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I'll be tied up extending my back catalog into the OpenType format for a
    while, it's something I still haven't finished.\r\nTwo new projects that I do
    however have in mind:\r\n\r\n1. Making my handwriting into an OpenType font. I
    think there's a lot of potential to get a much more natural effect, using contextual
    alternates, than has so far been achieved, so I'd like to take a crack at that.\r\n\r\n2.
    A straight forward roman OpenType face that uses alternates -- most definitely
    not ligatures -- to create a subtle effect. Not necessarily imitating the idiosyncracies
    of letterpress, but with the idea that such variations may serve a purpose.\r\n\r\nSo,
    no predictions, and somewhat self-centred, but that's as real as I can get."
  created: '2008-02-15 06:54:50'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "rss\r\n\r\nFrom a personal perspective I'd suggest there is very little to
    expect from typography in the future. I think the major upsurges (in terms of
    idealism) were from 1455 to 1501, the  major investigations at the beginning of
    the 20th century (both in regard to traditionalism and modernism), and in the
    1990s (as a consequence of the unlicensing of font formats). \r\n\r\nOther than
    than that it has been merely technological transitions (which have not been insignificant\u2014but
    seem other than what you are looking for). In terms of \"holographic displays,\"
    and similar such multi-media stuff; I'm not sure how much this actually has to
    do with typography so much as something else (and we have gone through that time
    and time again). Typography is what it is. There may be occasional questioning
    as to what it is in an idealogical sense, but ultimately it is what it is. We
    just keep coming back to the fundamentals.\r\n\r\nGerald\r\nhttp://BielerPrss.blogspot.com"
  created: '2008-02-15 07:02:24'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>From a personal perspective I\u2019d suggest there is very little to
    expect from typography in the future.</em>\r\n\r\nNow there's a wet blanket. There
    are plenty of new and interesting developments in typography to come, but the
    type industry itself and publishers and readers seem almost wholly opposed to
    innovation. People like you for example. Correct me if I'm wrong, but you seem
    to want to hit the nails firmly back into the wood before they've even popped
    up.\r\n\r\nIn general, people are terrified of change and the very idea of change.
    I am not, and it gets me into trouble.\r\n\r\nThat makes me very happy. To upend
    conservatism, or at least try to.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-02-15 07:20:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Nick - is Handsome Pro not your handwriting?\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2008-02-15 12:36:15'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> From a personal perspective I\u2019d suggest there is very little to expect
    from typography in the future.\r\n\r\nI'm with James on this one. It's like the
    person in the late 1800s who said they should close the patent office because
    there was nothing left to invent.\r\n\r\nThere will always be progress, as long
    as a product is used. The only way typography can die is if reading dies, and
    that isn't likely to happen before someone invents mental telepathy (and who knows,
    maybe that will require fonts as well.)"
  created: '2008-02-15 14:04:53'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "In the immediate future I think we\u2019re going to see more exploration
    of expressive/postmodern typography, but this time driven more by enhancing communication
    and less by the technological experimentation that was so prevalent the last time
    around. \r\n\r\nIn type design, large, versatile families and superfamilies will
    become more popular as multinational entities flex their identity muscles on a
    global scale. There\u2019s going to be a greater demand for fonts with five weights,
    three widths, and supports for every possible Latin language, Cyrillic, Chinese,
    and probably Arabic. On a somewhat related note, the \u201Cgreat designers\u201D
    of the future will no longer be the high-minded hotshots in New York and Basel,
    they\u2019ll Dubai-based geniuses who can effectively communicate across cultures.
    \r\n\r\nThe comfortable threads of nostalgia and historicism that are running
    through American design will cool off and popular type designs will be more detached
    from the past, but I\u2019m not sure how long it will be before consumers have
    a hopeful outlook on the future and designers will tire of appropriation. \r\n\r\nAt
    some point in the more-distant future there will be another revolution in reproduction
    technology when information can be blasted right into our brains, but I doubt
    that any of us is going to produce an accurate prediction about what that will
    do to type."
  created: '2008-02-15 15:16:13'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "not expecting much ? aw c'mon !!!\r\n\r\ni think the future of typography
    is really an extension of the future of language, and language is always evolving.\r\n\r\ni
    see trends such as L33T, slang, revisions in punctuation norms, and other popular
    modifications as healthy signs that the language is alive and well. sure, customized
    and colloquial usage may offend the keepers of orthodoxy, but it's inevitable
    and, imho, part of the (r)evolution. \r\n\r\ntell it to the middle english !"
  created: '2008-02-15 16:15:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The future of typography will be an extension of the needs of today. I can
    see advances in screen quality and technology to deliver better online reading
    experience. There are more small portable devices like phones and pocket entertainment
    devices coming so I imagine bringing the level of typography of print to these
    devices is a major thing to expect. \r\nThere will probably be a mess with web
    served typefaces for a while until it all gets sorted out and becomes predictable
    again.\r\nOpenType still has growth in its future and I expect to see fuller use
    of its capability made possible by applications and operating systems. There may
    \ be more automated inter-language typography improving on the so-far inadequate
    attempts by things like Babelfish.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-15 16:23:50'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "yes good answer dezcom. technology will drive developments in style - just
    as did the chisel, stylus, quill, press, crt, lcd, ipod...\r\n\r\nand there's
    a feedback loop, as stylistic needs and trends influence technology.\r\n\r\ni
    wonder how art and politics contribute to this engine ?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-15 17:26:23'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Sverri,\r\n\r\nId recommend getting your hands on a copy of Fred Smeijers
    little book <cite>Type Now</cite>. What you ask is, I think, implied by his discussion."
  created: '2008-02-15 18:17:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>L33T,</em>\r\n\r\nDamn, more kerning!"
  created: '2008-02-15 19:16:52'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> 2. A straight forward roman OpenType face that uses alternates \u2014
    most definitely not ligatures \u2014 to create a subtle effect. Not necessarily
    imitating the idiosyncracies of letterpress, but with the idea that such variations
    may serve a purpose. </cite>\r\n\r\nHooray! I think this is what we will see more
    & more of."
  created: '2008-02-16 01:58:20'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: But how would this be implemented? Something like this could easily be seen
    as tricky feathers if not implemented with care. Would this be a stylistic set?
    Would it be something a user to turn off or choose how or when?
  created: '2008-02-16 02:20:00'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Considering that 95% of designers, that I speak to, have never heard of a
    Multiple Master or an OpenType font, I think the future of typography is still
    up in the air. This cosy little Typophile space is no where near the real world.
    We're all locked in an arms race of OT features and almost no one cares.\r\n\r\nTough
    huh."
  created: '2008-02-16 02:36:15'
- author:
    name: Scalfin
    picture: 114154
  body: "Firstly, I see the long tail showing up in typography, as in everywhere else.
    This means more interesting and varied forms. I wouldn't be surprised if horizontal
    stress gains some popularity.\r\nNow, let's look at the current favorite of the
    serifed C fonts: Constantia. Based upon this, we should see a rise in wedge serifs
    and diagonal stress, the later prediction also supported by its incorporation
    in the highly scientifically designed NPS Rawlinson, which is an old style font.
    While the wedge serif will probably fade, I believe the diagonal stress will stick
    around, but it won't be old style, as advancements in technology allow for much
    greater line contrast, which typographers will take advantage of. We'll also see
    more open and larger counters, as seen in Constantia and Clearview.\r\nGiven the
    advancements in screen resolution and the increasing use of electronic paper,
    humanist sans serif fonts will dominate the sans. I can say with certainty that
    there will be at least one highly popular sans with a diagonal stress. Now, the
    fonts that I think will have the most influence are Calibri, Clearview, Optima
    (Nova), and the font designed by the guy who defended my inquiry about sans in
    the book font thread (his novelty and rejection of orthodoxy make me feel that
    he will be an innovator). Now, I don't have the specifics of Clearview or the
    unnamed typeface on hand, so I'll talk about Calibri and Optima. As duel use becomes
    more crucial (remember, electronic paper behaves like paper), typographers will
    try to make more almost-serif fonts, a popular example of which is Optima. This
    meens we'll see more flaring, with the first, furtive attempts being based upon
    Optima. Eventually, the serif/sans distinction will be a continuum. Calibri will
    have the influence of familiarity, making it the basis people will use when thinking
    about a sans for long enough to influence the majority of sans at least slightly.
    Now, the most distinctive part of Calibri is its rounded corners and ends. This
    tells me will go in the opposite direction from how they were at their height
    and become softer. Now, these two trends could combine in such a way that the
    lines will flare into a rounded end, which would look slightly reminiscent of
    a ball terminal."
  created: '2008-02-16 02:53:41'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Would it be something a user to turn off or choose how or when?</em>\r\n\r\ni
    think for the approach that eben has been advocating and that Nick is talking
    about contextual alternates would be applied. contextual alternates can always
    be turned off (at least they are supposed to be)."
  created: '2008-02-16 03:10:28'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "What are we doing, writing the final section of your paper?\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    it depends on the time frame you consider \"future.\" Your history covered over
    500 years. If you are looking 100 years ahead -- or even 50 -- it would be silly
    to expect OpenType to still be the format. PostScript has lasted 15 years. Hot
    metal lasted about 70 years. Photocomp around 40 years. The technology from the
    time of hot metal through photocomp caused certain changes in type because the
    economic emphasis was on selling the machines that set type, not the type itself.
    Typography (the type design part of it) was a servant to those machines.\r\n\r\nThe
    computer changed that. Now, for a period, anyone can produce type. But OpenType
    changes the software requirements considerably; if OpenType goes a certain way,
    it may again take a large foundry to economically produce fonts.\r\n\r\nBut that
    is very short term. Consider this. In 50 years, or 100 years, or however far into
    the future you want to project, we will still be communicating, at least in part,
    with the written word. And you can type faster than you can write longhand, and
    speak faster than you can write longhand. Therefore, type will be around. In what
    form will depend on where technology takes us."
  created: '2008-02-16 03:19:57'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: What Paul said.
  created: '2008-02-16 03:21:52'
- author:
    name: Scalfin
    picture: 114154
  body: "Speech is faster than type. Hmmm...\r\nI've got it: automated font-tone matching
    for voice recognition software(Dragonspeak), so the text can match your speech."
  created: '2008-02-16 04:17:42'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: or a robot that can make a really good salad
  created: '2008-02-16 04:23:35'
- author:
    name: Rodrigue Planck
    picture: 109713
  body: "I liked what you said Charles, but I think Postscript language specifically,
    not computers, are what changed the relationship of fonts to hardware.\r\nI think
    the future of typography is bright, but most fonts will be relegated to where
    they belong, and a few will shine on, as it always will. ITC fonts were so exciting,
    I remember waiting for releases (via Linotype), looking back, I cringe\u2026 Only
    time really tells what stands out and breaks out of its time period.\r\nFont formats
    come and go\u2026 got any type 3 fonts? or NimbusQ? or Letrafonts? Or Fonts with
    Typestyler? All these formats came out around the time of Postscript, who cares
    or needs most of these others? Font formats will only be adopted when they are
    soo much better than what is standard at any time, which is why you will see postscript
    fonts linger around for a long time, because OT fonts need to be far more compelling
    for users to be willing to purchase them, over an already purchased PS font. Only
    a fool would buy an OT font that has no more functionality than a PS font, as
    it would be redundant. \r\nPaper will carry on, the ultimate archive, we still
    have Gutenberg Holy Bibles, but we can only guess how he produced them, as his
    instruments and technology are long gone. In his life, he was a failure, financially,
    but to me, quite an evangelist!\r\n\r\nInk on paper adds the permanence, and quality
    that the publisher intends, while at the moment (we have been waiting for decades)
    screen resolutions are roughly the same as before the computer revolution. \r\nI
    believe signs will be a strong outlet for typography, which bodes well for headline
    fonts. Print will keep fighting, with costs continuing to decrease (mature technology
    plus competition from internet and far ranging competitors) and automation increasing.
    Niche market magazines (check B&N) will increase. Catalogs. More range of printed
    material but fewer copies printed, which will be good for typography in general.\r\nFonts
    and font ownership seem to be going back to metal type years. Agfa seems to own
    everything, through consolidation (Agfa (Compugraphic), Monotype, Linotype, ITC,
    and Letraset(I think). And there are lots of smaller and regional boutique font
    companies. And who can forget Adobe? \r\nThe Truth shall set you free"
  created: '2008-02-16 05:00:55'
- author:
    name: sverri
  body: "Hey, I'm back again.\r\n\r\nFirst I'd like to answer <strong>charles_e:</strong>
    <cite>What are we doing, writing the final section of your paper?</cite>.\r\n\r\nNo.
    The last section of my paper will be at least 5 pages long, so what is written
    here isn't enough for that. The paper will also be written in Faroese, so I cannot
    just copy and paste anything (and I wouldn't dream of doing that anyway). No,
    I'm asking for your opinions so I might build upon what I already have.\r\n\r\nBefore
    I asked the question here, I did have a few ideas to what I'd write about, but
    I think I've gotten quite a lot of material here, which I'm grateful for.\r\n\r\n<strong>Nick
    Shinn:</strong> <cite>1. Making my handwriting into an OpenType font. I think
    there\u2019s a lot of potential to get a much more natural effect, using contextual
    alternates, than has so far been achieved, so I\u2019d like to take a crack at
    that.</cite>\r\n\r\nPersonalised fonts. I can write about that and point to examples,
    if any.\r\n\r\n<strong>bieler:</strong> <cite>From a personal perspective I\u2019d
    suggest there is very little to expect from typography in the future. [...] Typography
    is what it is. There may be occasional questioning as to what it is in an idealogical
    sense, but ultimately it is what it is. We just keep coming back to the fundamentals.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    could suggest that there might not be happening too much in the near future, and
    my opinion on why and point to something that points towards that being the case.\r\n\r\n<strong>Don
    McCahill:</strong> <cite>There will always be progress, as long as a product is
    used. The only way typography can die is if reading dies, and that isn\u2019t
    likely to happen before someone invents mental telepathy (and who knows, maybe
    that will require fonts as well.)</cite>\r\n\r\nA very good argument for typography
    always changing, as long as people use it.\r\n\r\n<strong>James Puckett:</strong>
    <cite>On a somewhat related note, the \u201Cgreat designers\u201D of the future
    will no longer be the high-minded hotshots in New York and Basel, they\u2019ll
    Dubai-based geniuses who can effectively communicate across cultures.</cite>\r\n\r\nHighly
    competitive market = Innovation (?)\r\n\r\n<strong>Ch:</strong> <cite>i see trends
    such as L33T, slang, revisions in punctuation norms, and other popular modifications
    as healthy signs that the language is alive and well. sure, customized and colloquial
    usage may offend the keepers of orthodoxy, but it\u2019s inevitable and, imho,
    part of the (r)evolution.</cite>\r\n\r\nSlang, punctuation norms, etc. could change
    how we write.\r\n\r\n<strong>charles_e</strong><cite>Sverri,\r\n\r\nId recommend
    getting your hands on a copy of Fred Smeijers little book Type Now. What you ask
    is, I think, implied by his discussion.</cite>\r\n\r\nThank you for that. I'll
    order it right away.\r\n\r\n<strong>charles_e:</strong> <cite>Anyway, it depends
    on the time frame you consider \u201Cfuture.\u201D Your history covered over 500
    years. If you are looking 100 years ahead \u2014 or even 50 \u2014 it would be
    silly to expect OpenType to still be the format. </cite>\r\n\r\nYeah, I guess
    I should've mentioned that in the original post. I'm trying to limit it to the
    near future, perhaps around 25 to 50 years. I think looking futher than that is
    quite pointless, seeing as technology (which undoubtetly will have a big impact)
    is speeding up, and the speed at which the speed is growing is also growing.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I'm trying not to limit my thoughts to formats and stuff like that because, as
    you say, they come and go as the times change.\r\n\r\n<strong>Scalfin</strong>
    <cite>I\u2019ve got it: automated font-tone matching for voice recognition software(Dragonspeak),
    so the text can match your speech.</cite>\r\n\r\nInteresting idea, heh.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-16 16:26:47'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "@severri <cite>Highly competitive market = Innovation (?)</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    relationship between competition and innovation is universal. But in the context
    of this discussion, I believe that global communication is going to force designers\u2014and
    thus typographers\u2014to push themselves to understand and engage multiple cultures
    simultaneously. That\u2019s probably not something any one designer can pull off,
    but I expect that we\u2019ll see a lot of interesting collaboration, especially
    when it comes to ensuring that global marketing campaigns don\u2019t keep getting
    botched by non-natives bad attempts at setting a \u201Cforeign\u201D language.\r\n\r\nAnd
    on a wacky tangent, what the hell is the word foreign really going to mean fifty
    years from now?"
  created: '2008-02-16 16:39:48'
- author:
    name: Scalfin
    picture: 114154
  body: 'I also recommend looking at "The Long Tail: Why the Future of Business is
    Selling Less of More". It''s not about type per se, but the thesis really applies
    to everything.'
  created: '2008-02-16 16:43:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The Long Tail has been working for Myfonts since 1999, and has made possible
    the proliferation of independent foundries.\r\nThere's always someone somewhere
    finding a use for some font. If you produce enough of them, and have enough distribution,
    you don't need to rely on big sellers (although I always dream my next type will
    go viral...).\r\n\r\nScript fonts: the public's appetite seems unbounded.\r\n\r\nTiff:
    yes, I would make the subtle variants a contextual alternate because as James
    M notes, very few users know enough about OpenType to move beyond the default
    and turn on a stylistic set, and what's the point of putting a \"raison d'\xEAtre\"
    feature in a type that (one hopes) will become massively successful, if it's not
    going to be used?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-16 18:18:25'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "In the future I hope I can create fonts with:\r\n\r\nAlpha channels: If I
    want to create the effect of a semi transparent ink right now, I have to use multiple
    layers, crude shading using dots or noise. Users are requires to apply multiple
    layers. Alpha channels in a font format will be a new way to alter weight. Currently
    I can only adjust weight by reducing stem width, crude dots, light traps, stripes
    &c. Picture a counterless art deco display fonts like Baby Teeth, Parkitechture,
    Misirlou. Now imagine the O, instead of being solid, having a gradient so the
    centre is transparent. Picture a boringsans lowercase b. The stem width is uniform.
    Where bowl meets stem, the lines gradually fade to near transparent. Picture a
    spraypaint font that looks like real spraypaint. How about a \"lipstick on a mirror\"
    font with variable transparency? Now imagine how shitty/unconvincing those effects
    would look using current font technology.\r\n\r\nAssignable colours: Currently,
    fonts have one assignable colour. To assign multiple colours, I have to create
    separate font layers. No fun to make, no fun to use. Assignable colours could
    work with CSS to make headline fonts which correspond with a web site's colour
    scheme.\r\n\r\nHue and value shifts: Currently, a designer can assign a wood texture
    to a font and it'll looks like letters cut out of wood. But what about a hillybilly-style
    font with planks and nails? Each plank would have a fake woodgrain effect and
    self shadowing where the planks overlap. Maybe I'd like to make a cheesy 70's
    airbrush chrome effect font? To make something like that where the designer can
    apply a colour to a material, I need to be able to assign hue and value shifts.\r\n\r\nZ
    plane: I would like to be able to assign three dimensional attributes to glyph?
    Visual displays aren't going to be flat forever so why not support 3d geometry
    in a font format? Imagine Frankfurter if it were really 3D and appearing to hover
    3cm off your monitor. Face recognizing fake 3D desktops are probably only a few
    years away. Currently, designers can loft their own text but as a font designer,
    I want to be able to shape each letter precisely in three dimensions.\r\n\r\nPseudorandomization:
    Currently, I have to use OpenType ligatures to create a pseudorandom effect. That
    system doesn't allow tracking because the spacing font each ligature is fixed.
    Other systems can be used to create a pseudorandom effects but none are turned
    on by default in Adobe apps so it's unlikely that designers will use them.\r\n\r\nDesigning
    fonts with current TTF/OTF tech is like being an designer whose only tools are
    black construction paper and a pair of scissors. There are a lot of possibilities
    but after a decade of cutting shapes with black paper and scissors I'm pining
    for different art supplies. I'm primarily thinking of features that would improve
    display fonts. If you think new font capabilities wouldn't improve text fonts
    as well then try using your imagination. It seems like new fonts formats are created
    to support existing font ideas instead of giving us tools we can use to create
    something totally new.\r\n\r\nYeah, I know about Photofonts, no thx. I want vectors
    and I want it to be fully supported by default. Either the future of typography
    will involve some of the above or it'll involve me going completely nuts."
  created: '2008-02-19 01:06:43'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "From all I've seen and learned, typography is the collision of three forces:
    technology of type production, medium of use, and humanity's creativity and self-expression
    pushing up through the fertile but firm earth of those two constraints. \r\n\r\nTo
    guess about the future of typography is to guess about the future of human expression
    and communication. To speak about the future of <em>type</em> is a different but
    no less expansive thing.\r\n\r\nTo make a guess, I suggest looking at where communication
    is headed and then look at the overall trending of style as it relates to the
    prevailing cultural mindsets. For example: modernist, baroque, fascist, industrial,
    and commercial ideologies. How did their ideas manifest in typography? The contrast
    of page design in a scribal pre-literate community vs an industrial community
    vs the individualist communities of the web. Just be mindful to not get too high-minded.
    How much fine typography does the average person see vs how much cheap vinyl signage
    and cruddy Blackberry interface?\r\n\r\nA very interesting question to tackle.
    I hope this helps. "
  created: '2008-02-19 14:36:18'
date: '2008-02-15 04:51:13'
node_type: forum
title: The future of typography

---
