---
author:
  name: Isaac
  picture: 110579
body: the time has come to rise up against our oppressors. join me in this sticker
  campaign to rid our lives of this travesty of type design. we all know comic sans
  is the absolute worst. if i had millions of dollars i would buy you all a ton of
  sticker paper, but i don&#39;t, so please go get some and join the resistance. future
  generations will thank you. <BR><A HREF="http://www.bancomicsans.com" TARGET="_blank">
  www.bancomicsans.com</A>
comments:
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Hilarious. Vincent Connare--Comic Sans now infamous  <BR>designer--gives an
    equally funny response <A HREF="http://www.microsoft.com/typography/links/news.asp?nid=2648"
    TARGET="_blank">here</A>.
  created: '2002-11-04 07:50:40'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' I have a confession: at school I delete comic sans from every mac i sit
    at. Is this criminal destruction of communal property, or is it justifiable, given
    the fact that it&#39;s comic bloody sans and no one at a design school should
    even consider using it anyway? Excoriate me or justify me, either way my conscience
    needs to know. '
  created: '2002-11-04 08:15:12'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: ' Hmm, typographic activism. That probably deserves  <BR>it&#39;s own banned
    book. <BR> <BR>Anomonis, why limit yourself to Comic Sans? Why not  <BR>Sand as
    well? &#40;Ok, so I&#39;m 85% joking, but only because  <BR>I&#39;m a responsible
    citizen.&#41; For less subtle impact, you  <BR>could just put the stickers all
    over campus... '
  created: '2002-11-04 09:12:52'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' Yes, but stickers are more expensive than the recycle bin. And as for Sand...
    we shall see. '
  created: '2002-11-04 16:37:30'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: ' anomonis, i share your passion. <BR>i myself have not yet targeted <BR>sand
    for a couple of reasons: <BR>most people at my school who <BR>are clueless prefer
    comic sans, <BR>i think because it&#39;s closer to <BR>the beginning of the font
    menu. <BR>also, it&#39;s difficult to fight <BR>a war on two fronts, just ask
    <BR>hitler. so it&#39;s one amateur <BR>font at a time. by the way, <BR>your deletions
    are ingenius. <BR>even i never thought of that, <BR>and i hate comic sans more
    <BR>than ... well, i hate it more <BR>than anything. it&#39;s a sign <BR>that
    the last days are here <BR>and armageddon is near. i&#39;ve <BR>actually seen
    it on tv. <BR>mind-boggling. one last <BR>thing- i&#39;ve vectorized the <BR>image
    intended for stickers. <BR>if anyone wants it, drop <BR>me an e-mail. '
  created: '2002-11-04 16:46:34'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: ' Isaac, bring some more info for the typophiles. <BR> <BR>...Are you a design
    student? Is this ban comic sans movement a hostile thing or a laid-back thing,
    a satirical thing or a serious thing? <BR> <BR>Why include the picture of Vincent
    Connare on the sticker? HE is not comic sans. Did he ask you to take it off your
    site? If he did ask, would you? <BR> <BR>Tell us some of the fonts that you DO
    like. <BR> <BR>And is the &#34;design&#34; of the site, www.bancomicsans.com,
    a wry statement on comic sans or did it just turn out that way? <BR> <BR>bj '
  created: '2002-11-04 21:12:52'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' It&#39;s funny, the synchronicity. I work in the graphic design studio at
    my school and today my professor asked me to delete Comic Sans off of all the
    computers. Which is something I&#39;d be more than happy to do. I don&#39;t think
    he is aware of the ban comic sans campaign, but I know he is sick of seeing it
    in his student&#39;s work. <BR> <BR>It&#39;s not funny how little my peers think
    about typography. Most of them think &#34;Typography? That&#39;s words, right?&#34;
    and then they arbitrarily pick a typeface. And these are people who are going
    to graduate in a month. '
  created: '2002-11-05 04:20:51'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: ' here&#39;s the deal. i didn&#39;t mean to sound like that was my web site.
    i didn&#39;t make it, and i don&#39;t know who did. i&#39;m just a believer. my
    passion for hating comic sans is a healthy &#40;i hope&#41; blend of satire and
    frustration. i&#39;m a design student, graduating in december, and i&#39;m completely
    bewildered by other students who use it because it&#39;s &#34;cute&#34; or whatever
    reason they give. like, lewis, i think it&#39;s just an arbitrary decision on
    their part, as if typography is some kind of minor detail they slap on their project
    at the last minute. that offends me. here&#39;s a funny story from school: i was
    in the library looking for a specific book for my typography class and couldn&#39;t
    find it. i went to ask the person at the desk &#40;ostensibly a librarian, but...&#41;
    to help me find a book on typography. she said &#40;and this is an exact quote&#41;,
    &#34;a book about typing? let&#39;s see...&#34;. typing? typography! gee my krug!
    anyway, like lewis&#39; prof, i just get so tired of seeing it when there are
    so many other options.  a lot of my message also goes to the administartive offices
    at school. i don&#39;t know if they think we like it or what, but there are always
    notices and announcements on the bulletin boards set completely in comic sans,
    and sometimes they get fancy and go with corsiva. <BR>fonts i like? that&#39;s
    a huge can of worms, as you can imagine. my first love was univers &#40;don&#39;t
    laugh&#41; just because it&#39;s so simple and consistent through all of it&#39;s
    weights. i dig a lot of zuzana licko&#39;s stuff, and local heroes thirst have
    some cool stuff. btw, be on the lookout for ex-thirst designer patricking&#39;s
    new font next year. he gave me a sneak peek at it a while back. it&#39;s based
    on some herbert bayer sketches, so obviously it&#39;s going to be, y&#39;know,
    bayerish, but i love it so far. also, some of the fonts i&#39;ve seen in the critique
    boards here have blown me away. off the top of my head: review beta by jared benson
    and pill gothic by christian robetson. <BR>i feel like hrant with this ultra-long
    post. so bj, i hope you don&#39;t think i&#39;m going to assassinate vince. i
    really am a nice guy. if you&#39;re ever in chicago i&#39;ll prove it. you can
    stay at my place if you need to &#40;sorry, not in my bed. my wife has that spot&#41;,
    or i&#39;ll just make you some cinnamon rolls or something. '
  created: '2002-11-05 05:12:39'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: ' I think we can all breathe a little easier now. <BR> <BR> Thanks for the
    xplanation. I&#39;ll remember the cinnamon roll offer if I&#39;m ever in Chicago.
    <BR> <BR>btw, the site &#40;bancomicsans.com&#41; belongs to Dave Combs of Indianapolis.
    &#40;thanks Anthony&#41;. <BR> <BR> <BR>bj '
  created: '2002-11-05 06:19:03'
- author:
    name: gregorycadars
  body: ' Hope you don&#39;t know what phonetically means &#34;Connare&#34; in french:
    &#34;connard?&#34; <BR> <BR>G. '
  created: '2002-11-05 13:38:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' More interesting is the aviary connection: canard/mapgpie. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-11-05 15:38:15'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' Pemberton said: &#39;Hmm, typographic activism.&#39;  <BR> <BR>I say: not
    at all. &#40;Substantive&#41; typographic activism is a whole other thing entirely.
    <BR> <BR>----- <BR> <BR>It&#39;s funny to think of Comic Sans as an &#34;amateur
    font&#34;. Of course it is far from that, having been produced in and distributed
    by one of the largest corporations in the world. Run it through TTX and then tell
    me if you still think it is &#34;amateur&#34;. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m not going to argue
    that what typeface people use to do their typography doesn&#39;t matter, because
    that is a naive and reductive argument. It matters certainly -- up to a point.
    <BR> <BR>But really what this comes down to is a foolish exercise that doesn&#39;t
    accomplish anything. If you are motivated to spread the gospel of rational and
    diligent typography, then you should direct your efforts to something more constructive
    than deleting fonts on public computers. It&#39;s a childish, wannabe-guerilla,
    watered-down-Adbusters sort of thing to do.   <BR> <BR>Instead of wasting time
    with little web sites and clandestine font deleting, why not read some books and
    then discuss typography in a critical, engaged &#40;and engaging&#41; way? Then
    you can begin to form a plan of action for promoting typographic progress, right? '
  created: '2002-11-05 19:43:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; produced in and distributed by one of the largest corporations in
    the world <BR> <BR>Come on, large corporation mess up typography all the time.
    <BR> <BR>&#62; Run it through TTX <BR> <BR>Anybody who strikes down ComicSans
    based on technical merit is a retard. But I think the concern here is aesthetic/cultural,
    and there&#39;s no question that more typophiles dislike it than like it. Why?
    <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>I think deleting fonts does have an unethical element, and
    it&#39;s not activism; it&#39;s more like guerilla warfare. But does it help?
    I think it might. Does education also help? Certainly. What does &#34;bancomicsans.com&#34;
    accomplish? More than its absense. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-11-05 20:30:31'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: 'First, I take the &#39;ban comic sans&#39; site for what it is,  <BR>humor.
    It&#39;s on the same order as poking fun at Hobo or  <BR>creating a mockumentary
    of Cooper Black. &#40;Although,  <BR>using Connare&#39;s picture is in poor taste.&#41;
    <BR> <BR>This isn&#39;t a question of whether Comic Sans has  <BR>integrity as
    a typeface. It&#39;s a commentary on fonts in the  <BR>hands of amateurs--students,
    professionals and lay  <BR>people alike. This problem isn&#39;t new either. How
    many  <BR>times have we seen Apple&#39;s Chicago in print &#40;eww&#41;. <BR>
    <BR>Connare&#39;s own comments hit the nail on the  <BR>head... &#40;The link
    I posted earlier was broken.&#41; <BR>Read the <A HREF="http://www.microsoft.com/typography/links/news.asp?nid=2648"
    TARGET="_blank">article on Microsoft&#39;s Typography site</A>. <BR> <BR>And an
    excerpt: <BR> <BR>I have seen Comic Sans used well - Disney has used it in some
    advertising - and I have seen it used poorly - An English coach line uses Comic
    Sans as its logo font painted on the side in half meter lettering. I am too personally
    amused when I go to restaurants and have to read it off the menu. <BR> <BR>--Vincent
    Connare <BR> <BR>In the end, I agree with &#39;Your Mother.&#39; Deleting fonts
    on  <BR>public or private property isn&#39;t going to educate  <BR>anybody about
    good typography. Your energy could be  <BR>spent in more productive ways.'
  created: '2002-11-05 21:24:43'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: ' &#62;why not read some books and then discuss typography in a critical,
    engaged &#40;and engaging&#41; way? <BR> <BR>there is nothing i would like more
    in the world than to do just that, and that&#39;s why i love this website and
    have a deep appreciation for those who created it and run it. i can&#39;t speak
    for anomonis &#40;is that supposed to be anonymous?&#41;, but that is a big part
    of the reason i&#39;m frustrated. hrant is right when he says people who actually
    like and have a knowledge of type generally do not use comic sans. discussions
    in my typography classes generally boil down to me, the instructor, and one or
    two others actually participating and the rest of the students staring with mouths
    agape. once i gave a brief &#40;20 minutes&#41; presentation on the history of
    sans serif fonts and the class was bored to the point of insanity. maybe it was
    me. as far as the deletions, i agree with hrant and anomonis both. there is an
    ethical problem anytime you take someone&#39;s agency away, but at the same time,
    my experience has shown me that no amount of discussing or proseletyzing &#40;and
    i&#39;ve done tons of both&#41; can change someone if they don&#39;t want to be
    changed. deleting offensive fonts may be the only recourse some people see. and
    when i say offensive, i&#39;m referring not only to my opinion of the aesthetics
    of it, but to other students and designers lack of effort and care when they use
    it. i love typography, and when someone shows it so little respect, i get offended.
    <BR> <BR>btw, my participation in the sticker campaign is mostly just a lot of
    fun. '
  created: '2002-11-05 21:41:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; deleting ComicSans <BR> <BR>I just realized that one should let people
    know that it&#39;s been deleted: it makes it less unethical, and more importantly
    it makes it an &#42;issue&#42;. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-11-05 21:59:44'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' But Isaac, you don&#39;t seem to see the point. Bluntly: TYPOGRAPHY IS NOT
    ABOUT FONTS. TYPOGRAPHY IS NOT ABOUT COMIC SANS. TYPOGRAPHY IS NOT ABOUT YOUR
    PRESENTATION ABOUT THE HISTORY OF SANS SERIFS. You are not seeing the forest for
    the trees.  <BR> <BR>And Hrant said: &#34;Come on, large corporation mess up typography
    all the time.&#34; <BR> <BR>Hrant, you missed my point. I was responding to the
    person who said Comic Sans was an AMATEUR font. It is as far from AMATEUR as you
    get. You may think the letters in the font are ugly, but that is another thing
    entirely. It was made by a guy who was PAID to DESIGN TYPE. '
  created: '2002-11-05 22:26:37'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: ' &#62; most people at my school who  <BR>&#62; are clueless prefer comic
    sans,  <BR> <BR>Isn&#39;t being clueless subjective? How do you know that these
    people aren&#39;t trying to target an audience who might appreciate this typeface?
    It doesn&#39;t bother me personally that you do not like it, I just think your
    reasoning needs a little more work. <BR> <BR>&#62; i think because it&#39;s closer
    to  <BR>&#62; the beginning of the font menu.  <BR> <BR>I think this is an asinine
    reason. Do you really think people outside of &#34;the world of typography&#34;
    have no desire to make a statement or visually communicate to others? Isn&#39;t
    that a bit judgmental? <BR> <BR>&#62; so it&#39;s one amateur  <BR>&#62; font
    at a time. <BR> <BR>Another asinine remark. <BR> <BR>&#62; today my professor
    asked me to delete Comic Sans off of all the computers <BR> <BR>This is one solution
    to this &#34;supposed&#34; problem. But wouldn&#39;t a more appropriate solution
    be to simply educate the students about the typefaces which are not to be used
    &#40;along with sound reasoning as to why&#41;. <BR> <BR>&#62; students who use
    it because it&#39;s &#34;cute&#34; <BR> <BR>But, if this is the reason they are
    using it, maybe they feel it communicates cute. Again, subjective. <BR> <BR>&#62;
    More interesting is the aviary connection: canard/mapgpie.  <BR> <BR>Really? :-D
    How bizarre. <BR> <BR>&#62; It&#39;s funny to think of Comic Sans as an &#34;amateur
    font&#34;... <BR>&#62; I&#39;m not going to argue that what typeface people use...
    <BR>&#62; But really what this comes down to is a foolish exercise... <BR>&#62;
    Instead of wasting time with little web sites and clandestine font deleting...
    <BR> <BR>Well spoken. <BR> <BR>&#62; Anybody who strikes down ComicSans based
    on technical merit is a retard. <BR> <BR>:-D Totally agree. <BR> <BR>&#62; aesthetic/cultural
    <BR> <BR>What about the fact that this says a lot about the break-down &#40;read:
    total failure&#41; of the educational system. When I have taught typography/design
    classes I always give the students a week or two for experimentation. Then when
    they bring in roughs set in a typeface that is meant for the viewing on a computer,
    I show them and explain to them why their selection isn&#39;t sound. I have had
    a few students insist they chose the best face and to them I would smile and nod.
    I cannot design for them, I can only help in the process. It is, after all, their
    portfolio. <BR> <BR>&#62; no amount of discussing or proseletyzing <BR> <BR>This
    is sad, but true. <BR> <BR>&#62; but to other students and designers lack of effort
    and care when they use it <BR> <BR>For those that do choose poorly their typefaces,
    well it let&#39;s those of us that supposedly &#34;know&#34; what we are doing
    truly shine. &#40;Tongue in cheek&#41; Kinda separating the, ahem, men from the
    boys. <BR> <BR>--- <BR> <BR>When I was in England, Vinnie actually showed me this
    site. He thought it was hilarious. He knows the font was developed for a children&#39;s
    computer application and it was never meant to be included in the font pack for
    the public. As Joe pointed out and I&#39;ve experienced first hand, finding the
    typeface used in odd situations is a game for Vinnie. <BR> <BR>I think the ban
    should be on &#34;bad communication&#34; not the poor little unassuming typeface.
    Typography in the end isn&#39;t, as Yer Momma has stated, about the typeface.
    I think it does play a part. Certainly a typeface can communicate and imply many
    things. Comic sans is not, perhaps, the most appropriate choice for an airline
    company. <BR> <BR>I personally think more time should be spent educating ourselves
    and helping those that truly do want help. Not wasting energy and time on the
    details that really don&#39;t matter, such as banishing a typeface that doesn&#39;t
    need banishing. <BR> <BR>Maybe a bit wordy. In the end, it comes down to education
    and that makes me sad. Sad that instead of trying to educate we are simply becoming
    boring and dogmatic. Leave poor comic sans, and helvetica for that matter, alone. '
  created: '2002-11-06 01:29:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62;&#62; i think because it&#39;s closer to <BR>&#62;&#62; the beginning
    of the font menu. <BR> <BR>&#62; I think this is an asinine reason. <BR> <BR>It&#39;s
    a bad reason, but it&#39;s also true. The same thing at the other end: when a
    user is looking for a font but runs out of choices, he often chooses Zapf Chancery.
    <BR> <BR>&#62; wouldn&#39;t a more appropriate solution be to simply educate the
    students <BR> <BR>I agree that education is the &#34;main way&#34;. But deleting
    is not useless; fewer choices &#40;especially the absense of &#34;fall-back&#34;
    choices&#41; promotes clearer thinking. <BR> <BR>&#62; it was never meant to be
    included in the font pack for the public. <BR> <BR>Hmmm. It&#39;s strange how
    this seems to be a standard excuse or something. John Hudson has said that Sylfaen
    &#40;which is included with Office2000, but has flawed Armenian and Georgian components&#41;
    was never supposed to actually ship... <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>Tiffany, there is
    merit to the argument that how you &#42;use&#42; a typeface is central, especially
    from the viewpoint of a &#42;user&#42; of type. But from the perspective of a
    &#42;maker&#42; of type, there is very much a good and bad to it &#40;even if
    it&#39;s subjective&#41; - just like you can use a font well or poorly! For example,
    the letterspacing in Helvetica is &#42;bad&#42;. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-11-06 01:47:39'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' Removing Comic Sans is not a solution. When students ask where it went --
    most won&#39;t even notice -- a dicussion will be sparked as to why. And even
    if no one notices it will still be talked about. '
  created: '2002-11-06 03:23:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' What do you mean? Starting to talk is the first step. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-11-06 03:49:20'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: ' such passion, everyone! so, due to my laziness and the fact that i had to
    catch a train, i didn&#39;t properly express myself. <BR> <BR>&#62;TYPOGRAPHY
    IS NOT ABOUT FONTS. TYPOGRAPHY IS NOT ABOUT COMIC SANS. TYPOGRAPHY IS NOT ABOUT
    YOUR PRESENTATION ABOUT THE HISTORY OF SANS SERIFS. <BR> <BR>of course i don&#39;t
    think typography is about my piddly presentations, i was juxtaposing the passion
    some people have for learning as much as possible about type and others who couldn&#39;t
    care less about the difference between times new roman and helvetica. <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;students
    who use it because it&#39;s &#34;cute&#34;  <BR> <BR>&#62;But, if this is the
    reason they are using it, maybe they feel it communicates cute. Again, subjective.
    <BR> <BR>again, my laziness. i forgot that you all haven&#39;t seen it in the
    contexts i reference. comic sans on a hip hop cd cover? i reckon not. i&#39;ve
    inquired as to the use of this font during critiques, and generally the answer
    is, &#34;it&#39;s cute&#34;, or, &#34;i just thought it worked.&#34; so there
    really isn&#39;t any attempt to communicate any sort of feeling or vibe, it was
    just there. <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;i think because it&#39;s closer to  <BR>&#62;&#62;the
    beginning of the font menu.  <BR> <BR>&#62;I think this is an asinine reason.
    Do you really think people outside of &#34;the world of typography&#34; have no
    desire to make a statement or visually communicate to others? Isn&#39;t that a
    bit judgmental?  <BR> <BR>i was referencing fellow students, not the public at
    large. recent sightings of projects using comic sans include the above mentioned
    hip hop cd cover, a menu for a fancy restaurant, as part of a personal logotype
    &#40;hey, it&#39;s your logo&#41;, and as body copy in a magazine mock-up. appropriate?
    <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;so it&#39;s one amateur  <BR>&#62;&#62;font at a time.  <BR>
    <BR>i admit, that was an asinine statement. can i use scoles&#39; &#34;lack of
    sleep&#34; excuse? <BR> <BR>in the end, my fun little steam-letting-outing sticker
    game served as a poor introduction to people whose abilities and opinions i have
    come to respect as i&#39;ve been perusing these boards. maybe the all powerful
    moderators can just delete this whole thing i can start again. <BR> <BR>tiffany
    - asinine? i haven&#39;t been called that in ... well, at least a couple of days.
    but i agree with you anyway. '
  created: '2002-11-06 06:06:33'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: '<I>&#62; can i use scoles&#39; &#34;lack of sleep&#34; excuse?</I> <BR> <BR>Sure,
    Isaac! Toss in that excuse whenever you need  <BR>it. It sure comes in handy.
    I think I&#39;ll use it now: I  <BR>wrote the following on far too little sleep...
    <BR> <BR> <BR>There are a lot of assumptions being made as to why  <BR>the &#34;Ban
    Comic Sans&#34; campaign began. But the  <BR>website lists no reasons. No manifesto
    is posted.  <BR>So remember that most of what people here are  <BR>responding
    to is Isaac Stanfield&#39;s <I>interpretation</I> of  <BR>what the sticker campaign
    is about. <BR> <BR> <BR>That said, I&#39;m learning a lot from this thread. <BR>Two
    things I do know: <BR> <BR> <BR>1.  If the creator of the campaign intended to
    <I>incite  <BR>dialog</I> about... <BR> <BR> a. the merits or demerits of Comic
    Sans <BR> b. misguided typeface selection, or <BR> c. what signs point to amateurish
    design <BR> <BR>...then he succeeded. He&#39;s definitely generated a <BR>discussion,
    and that is often the purpose of a  <BR>grassroots campaign. <BR> <BR>Mostly I
    just think it&#39;s funny. People who don&#39;t might  <BR>have a different sense
    of humor, but they also might <BR>be taking this far too seriously. <BR> <BR>
    <BR>2. A font&#39;s location in the font menu can have an  <BR>influence on the
    user&#39;s selection. I know it because <BR>I&#39;ve seen it - more than once.
    People who don&#39;t care <BR>or are short on time, rush to the first font that
    agrees  <BR>with them. A font near the top of the menu has a <BR>good chance of
    getting picked. I&#39;m not talking about  <BR>designers here, I&#39;m talking
    about people who do not  <BR>earn a living using type. They are people with an  <BR>immediate
    need, whipping out a flyer or sign. Their <BR>contribution is still important
    - these people produce <BR>a pretty big part of what the world sees.'
  created: '2002-11-06 08:58:33'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'Incidently, tonight I saw Comic Sans used very <BR>appropriately: for the
    titles in a <A HREF="http://www.hbo.com/americaundercover/journeys/" TARGET="_blank">documentary</A>
    on HBO. <BR> <BR>It&#39;s rare, but it happens.'
  created: '2002-11-06 09:03:33'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: ' thanks for permission to use your excuse. my wife doesn&#39;t believe it
    anymore, but maybe you guys will. <BR> <BR>&#62;A font near the top of the menu
    has a  <BR>good chance of getting picked. I&#39;m not talking about  <BR>designers
    here, I&#39;m talking about people who do not  <BR>earn a living using type. <BR>
    <BR>exactly what i&#39;m talking about. i think it&#39;s sad that people who want
    to be designers are doing the same thing. i think they should at least care a
    little about type. <BR> <BR>i&#39;m starting to feel bad about plastering vince&#39;s
    face all over, especially since he apparently doesn&#39;t like it. i guess i should
    change the sticker. what a sheep i was to use someone else&#39;s anyway. '
  created: '2002-11-06 14:05:21'
- author:
    name: core
    picture: 110478
  body: ' The more you talk about Comic Sans, the more I am starting to like Comic
    Sans again. '
  created: '2002-11-06 14:17:17'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: ' then i have done a great disservice. '
  created: '2002-11-06 16:29:12'
- author:
    name: gregorycadars
  body: ' &#62;A font near the top of the menu <BR>has a good chance of getting picked
    <BR> <BR>Ok, so don&#39;t delete it, just rename it Zomic Sans or Verysad Sans. '
  created: '2002-11-06 17:18:31'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: If you&#39;re reading this message in a happy, bubbly &#40;although sometimes
    inappropriate&#41; typeface, then you have Comic Sans on your computer. <BR> <BR>
    However, if all you see is Arial, then there&#39;s a good chance your computer
    is the victim of a guerilla font saboteur. <BR> <BR>=&#41;
  created: '2002-11-06 21:20:11'
date: '2002-11-04 07:25:19'
title: Archive through November 06, 2002

---
