---
author:
  name: Dan Gayle
  picture: 111595
body: "While working on my Joy Division Closer font (see [[http://typophile.com/node/41650|this
  thread]]), it was suggested that I support Cyrillic and Greek letters in addition
  to the Latin.\r\n\r\nSeems simple enough, pop in the right encoding, add the characters
  that are missing because Hey Cool! Half of the letters are the same as in Latin!,
  and voil\xE1, Greek and Cyrillic, just like that.\r\n\r\nBut in reading the [[http://typophile.com/node/15982|Greek
  All Caps]] thread and the [[Greek]] Wiki it appears that it's not that simple.\r\n\r\nFirst
  of all, is there any precedent in a Roman inscriptional style upper case Greek,
  either an actual inscription or a font? I know that there was inscribed Greek, that's
  not what I'm talking about. But more like a TRAJAN-LIKE IMPERIAL inscription. Something
  grand and imposing. Something like the Romans would have done had the Romans done
  Greek.\r\n\r\nSecond, if I continue with this foolish errand, is it necessary to
  add all of accented character feature coding if there is no lower case to convert
  from? I'm guessing that there would still be some contextual programming involved.\r\n\r\nThanks!"
comments:
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Pre-Rome, the Greeks themselves did not carve large monumental inscriptions\u2026
    their stone-carved text was very small and to the point. While these letters were
    often beautiful, they do not stylistically align with the Trajan Column's letters.\r\n\r\nIn
    their Empire, the Romans did in fact carve large monumental inscriptions in Greek,
    at least on occasion. If a Greek would find these letters Greek enough is not
    for me to say.\r\n\r\nAnd now I'm gong to speculate, with no feet standing in
    the realm of my own factual knowledge: Perhaps the Byzantines, who were not Romans
    at all even though they regularly called themselves as such, made some monumental
    lettering. They did think that they were good Romans after all, and it was the
    Romans who did that sort of thing. Except that the Byzantines (at least after
    a certain point) spoke Greek instead of Latin. So\u2026\r\n\r\nAs for Cyrillic,
    after the second World War, the Russians did carve a lot of imposing monumental
    Trajan-like lettering. I mean, why wouldn't they? I bet you would, too, if you
    had been them. Moreover, their client-state artists did as well\u2026 so East
    Berlin, for example, has some odd stuff. I bet that Poland and Hungary do, too."
  created: '2008-02-16 10:27:34'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>the Russians did carve a lot of imposing monumental Trajan-like lettering</cite>\r\nYeah,
    I recall one of your Berlin photos, Dan; <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/typeoff/485109951/\">\u2018Trajan
    Cyrillic?\u2019</a>"
  created: '2008-02-16 13:01:47'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "There isn't an absolute distinction between Romans and Greeks - by the second
    century CE, and even more so in the third, it's probably fairer to say that some
    Romans wrote natively in Latin and some Romans wrote natively in Greek. Or that
    in the third century BCE very few Greeks were Romans, whereas in the third century
    CE most Greeks were Romans. The biggest and most monumental of inscriptions tended
    to be in Latin, because that was the official state language, but even imperial
    inscriptions were often in Greek in the Greek-speaking provinces.\r\n\r\nSo Greek
    inscriptions of the Roman period are Roman, but they're also Greek at the same
    time, and entirely a part of the Greek cultural tradition. For this reason, in
    fact, the exact style of monumental capitals used in Latin, like on Trajan's Column,
    isn't found much in Greek lettering of the same period; in general, the Greek
    lettering style tended to be somewhat more square, and the serifs are treated
    differently (often more angular). But the elements of the Latin monumental style
    were derived from Hellenistic Greek inscriptions, so it's all related. Byzantine
    inscriptions have a quite different style, looking \"medieval\" rather than \"Roman\"
    (think Russian icons, for example).\r\n\r\nTo get back to the original question,
    yes there were grand and imposing monumental Greek capitals, especially in the
    Hellenistic and Roman periods. No, they do not look exactly like Trajanic lettering,
    but they are culturally related and thus similar in various ways. You can see
    a ton of examples, big and small, of various periods, at the <a href=\"http://www.insaph.kcl.ac.uk/index.html\">Aphrodisias
    inscriptions site</a>.\r\n\r\nHow all of this is perceived by modern Greeks is
    another question entirely, and one I wouldn't know the answer to."
  created: '2008-02-16 13:44:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Dan, here is a photo of some Greek inscriptional lettering from within a
    Roman cultural environment. Unfortunately, I took this picture a long time ago,
    and I don't remember where. It could by in Lyons, France, or in Rome.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/36766351@N00/1345229290/"
  created: '2008-02-16 16:49:30'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Thanks Dan and John! Those are both great examples! There are some other
    good examples in that Flikr pool that it's a part of. And Dan, you're holding
    out on some Greek from the British Museum!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-16 20:08:38'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: I believe that I do have some Greek photos from the British Museum buried
    in my flickr space. But John's image shows much better what I was hinting at!
  created: '2008-02-16 20:11:21'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I'm looking at that Inscriptions of Aphrodisias page, and they have some
    cool stuff. Not always the style of lettering that I'm looking for, but check
    out this:\r\n[[http://insaph.kcl.ac.uk/iaph2007/iAph080233.html|Building dedication
    for Aphrodite, Emperors and Demos]]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/78_J_21_4227.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-16 20:15:09'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: That's heavy metal!
  created: '2008-02-16 20:15:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I have uploaded two more examples to Flickr, two halves of a single inscription
    in the Imperial Forum, Rome.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/36766351@N00/2269083743/\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/36766351@N00/2269083653/"
  created: '2008-02-16 20:49:28'
- author:
    name: solfeggio
    picture: 112465
  body: "While you're at it, you might also like to take a peek at this item:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/64189496@N00/125299697\r\n\r\nThere
    are similar-styled bilingual inscriptions to be found at Ephesus as well. Someone
    posted photos of them once upon a time (perhaps here, perhaps on Flickr). Think
    it was Hrant. (BTW, does anyone know if Hrant's okay? He's been mighty quiet lately.)\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nErnie\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-16 20:57:53'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Thanks again guys. \r\n\r\nSo here's my scenario as it plays out in my head.
    You have Ioe Schmoe, the Roman letter cutter, and he's handed a pile of Greek
    letters to add onto his inscription that has a deadline coming, literally. Looks
    at the letters and says, \"Hey, most of these letters letters are the same as
    Latin. And the ones that aren't? Vell, I'll just drav them the same vay I drav
    Latin.\"\r\n\r\nWhich looks to be the same way the guy did it on solfeggio's example.
    Cool beans!\r\n\r\nSo in my font, the Greek letters are drawn the way I think
    the same person drew the Latin. Make sense?"
  created: '2008-02-16 21:17:14'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "Here's another bilingual one, this one from a bilingual region (eastern Sicily).
    It's about a century before Trajan, so the classic Trajanic style isn't fully
    developed in it, but it shows a deliberate attempt to make the two scripts visually
    compatible while retaining their own style still, like in solfeggio's example.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bilingual-inscription_3676.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-16 21:25:19'
- author:
    name: solfeggio
    picture: 112465
  body: "The photo David [archaica] posted is interesting indeed, particularly for
    those curvaceous epsilons (rather than straight-back forms) and the lunate sigmas
    (don't confuse those with an uppercase \"C\", Dan). But it is precisely those
    forms, and in particular the lunate sigma, that gives me pause about both the
    dating and the provenance of the inscription: perhaps memory is playing tricks
    on me, but my recollections are that these forms were predominant in Eastern Greek
    scripts (even turning up on coins found in India). Let's hope someone with appropriate
    cites to hand will pipe up soon and unmuddle this.\r\n\r\nStill and all, Dan,
    giving the Latin a proper \"Greek wash\" rather than Romanizing the Greek (as
    is so often done) might make for an interesting point of departure. In any case,
    I wish you luck.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nErnie\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-16 22:28:16'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: I was wrong about the "eastern Sicily" part - it's from Palermo, in western
    Sicily. It's an odd one because the lunate epsilon and sigma weren't all that
    common until later, but the spelling of the Latin looks early - for example the
    "heic" instead of "hic" is mainly pre-Augustan. The grammar's a bit dodgy in either
    language. People tend to date it to the early 1st century CE, generally with a
    big question mark. It's ILS 7680, CIL 10.7296.
  created: '2008-02-16 23:02:05'
- author:
    name: solfeggio
    picture: 112465
  body: "Thanks for the clarifications, David. That's a tasty little oddity you've
    come across.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nErnie"
  created: '2008-02-16 23:37:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Dan, Robert Slimbach got conflicting messages from different authorities,
    and ended up doing two sets of small caps in Arno, one with accents, one without.
    Go figure.\r\n\r\nI figure do your homework but at some point you have to make
    up your own mind. So what if your designs have a foreign accent? The locals might
    find it appealingly exotic and sexy, like Chevalier or Garbo. (Before my time
    too, but you know what I mean.) "
  created: '2008-02-17 00:56:07'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Thanks Nick. I have a feeling, completely without foundation I might add,
    that when set in stone the Greek reader would have had to figure things out by
    context, i.e., no accents. \r\n\r\nWe do the same in English when txt messaging,
    etc."
  created: '2008-02-17 01:24:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>Robert Slimbach got conflicting messages from different authorities,
    and ended up doing two sets of small caps in Arno, one with accents, one without.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    not the result of conflicting messages. Historically, one finds smallcaps with
    and without accents, so there is a matter of preference, which recommends a mechanism
    by which the user can choose to display accents on smallcaps. So Adobe is, like
    other developers, using the <calt> feature to contextually supress the display
    of smallcap accents, allowing the user to turn off this feature if they decide
    they want to see the accents. Now Adobe have a policy of providing one-to-one
    glyph name to character mapping, so that if Acrobat needs to reconstruct text
    strings from raw glyph IDs it can do so accurately. This means, among other things,
    that they include e.g. /A.sc/ and /a.sc/ as smallcap variants: duplicate glyphs
    with different names for use with different layout features. The Greek smallcap
    glyphs with and without accents are another instance of the same policy, i.e.
    a smallcap Alpha with no visible accent or breathing mark may still need to be
    mapped back to a diacritic character, not to a plain Alpha."
  created: '2008-02-17 04:47:51'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: "Is it worth noticing what the little bilingual inscription is telling us?
    The Latin text, using lowercase, is <em>Tituli heic ordinantur et sculpuntur aidibus
    sacreis cum operum publicorum</em>. Books on inscriptions do not insult their
    readers by giving translations from Latin. At any rate I have not seen one for
    this inscription, although we are told that it is bad Latin (and Greek). So here
    is my very cautious attempt: \u2018Inscriptions are prepared and cut here for
    sacred and public buildings\u2019.\r\n\r\nSome of the words are easy. <em>Titulus</em>
    is a common word for an inscription. <em>Sculpere</em> means \u2018cut\u2019.
    But what about <em>ordinare</em>? Does it mean \u2018we write the words\u2019,
    or \u2018we put the words in order and choose the letterforms\u2019? Is it the
    earliest advertisement for a specialist in the layout of texts? And does the Greek
    help us with <em>ordinare</em>?\r\n\r\nThe frustrating thing is that books on
    Latin inscriptions, like Giancarlo Susini\u2019s <em>The Roman stonecutter</em>
    (English edition 1973) talk about the text without showing the inscription. The
    only picture of it that I know is a pale halftone in a good little book in Italian,
    Ida Calabi Limentani, <em>Epigrafia Latina</em>. (I have the edition of 1983.)
    She mentions another advertisement in the Vatican and suggests that it is probably
    for memorial inscriptions: <em>Titulos scribendos vel si quid marmorari opus fuerit,
    his habes.</em> Something like \u2018You can have inscriptions written here and
    cut by our workmen\u2019?\r\n\r\nThe image of the Palermo stone in the post is
    the best I have seen. The moir\xE9 suggests that it is from a printed work. Can
    we know what it is, please?"
  created: '2008-02-17 09:23:36'
- author:
    name: rcc
    picture: 112031
  body: "The Greek renders roughly thus: \"stela here chiseled and inscribed [for]
    sacred temples  and public works.\" The \"for\" is implicit, hence bracketed.
    The second \"and\" could likewise be understood as \"as well as...\" The \"public
    works\" isn't specific, so it might include anything from slabs to denote that,
    say, \"Hadrian's cousin built this place\" or perhaps even the more mundane: mile-markers
    and \"This way to Rome\" signs. Just can't say. But yes, it clearly is an advertisement
    for an early chisel wielder.\r\n\r\n<em>\"Does the Greek help us with ordinare?\"</em>
    Not much at all. But if my Latin's not too rusty, \"ordinare\" can mean to \"set
    in order\" or if you prefer, especially for the case present, \"compose.\"\r\n\r\nHope
    this helps."
  created: '2008-02-17 16:48:36'
- author:
    name: rcc
    picture: 112031
  body: "<em>... when set in stone the Greek reader would have had to figure things
    out by context, i.e., no accents.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd no spaces between words to boot,
    e.g., in the image above the words for \"sacred temples\" (\u03BD\u03B1\u03B9\u03BF\u03C2
    \u03B9\u03B5\u03C1\u03BF\u03B9\u03C2) are run together as are \u03C4\u03C5\u03C0\u03BF\u03C5\u03BD\u03C4\u03B1\u03B9
    \u03BA\u03B1\u03B9 and \u03C3\u03C5\u03BD \u03B5\u03BD\u03B5\u03C1\u03B3\u03B5\u03B9\u03B1\u03B9\u03C2.
    Lots of fun to read, ain't it? Standard practice back then. (Please, let's not
    turn next to complexities of boustrophedon. That's way too near a mindbender.)"
  created: '2008-02-17 17:59:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "John, this from the Arno specimen book:\r\n\r\n\"In developing these two
    approaches, we received valuable input from a few of our outside Greek langauge
    experts, who engaged us in a spirited exchange of ideas, before we settled on
    the two-option model.\"\r\n\r\nThat led me to believe there was a difference of
    opinion amongst the experts as to whether polytonic small caps should have accents
    or not.\r\n\r\nI solved the problem in my Greek fonts by only having the small
    caps feature work for monotonic. \r\n\r\n<em>This means, among other things, that
    they include e.g. /A.sc/ and /a.sc/ as smallcap variants: duplicate glyphs with
    different names for use with different layout features.</em>\r\n\r\nA little off-topic,
    but should \"correct\" fonts now include two sets of small cap glyphs? -- one
    for substitutions from caps, one from lower case? \r\n"
  created: '2008-02-17 18:17:30'
- author:
    name: JCSalomon
    picture: 128147
  body: "&emsp;The Jewish Temple in Jerusalem had warning signs posted in Latin &
    Greek saying something like, \"No Gentile is permitted past here; whoever is caught
    will have himself to blame for his ensuing death\".  I don't know if there's an
    extant Latin version, but the there's a picture of the Greek at [[http://www.abu.nb.ca/Courses/NTIntro/InTest/JerTem.htm]],
    about \xBEths down the page.  This would predate Trajan's inscription by probably
    less than 100 years.\r\n\u2014Joel"
  created: '2008-02-17 18:30:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I like the Alphas with the bent crossbar.
  created: '2008-02-17 18:39:04'
- author:
    name: rcc
    picture: 112031
  body: "Nick: <em>should \"correct\" fonts now include two sets of small cap glyphs?</em>\r\n\r\nA
    safe answer might be a noncommital, \"It may well depend on your audience.\"\r\n\r\nTo
    the extent one can legitimately generalize, contemporary practice in Greece has
    been this: Greek text set in all caps and/or small caps (and yes petite caps,
    too, if anyone's curious) uses practically no diacritics. The sole ones to retain
    are for the vowels with dialytika (diaeresis). Would polytonic or monotonic alter
    that? Not one whit. Of course an absent accent means one can't rightly tell, without
    context, whether \"\u039C\u0391\u039B\u0391\u039A\u0391!\" was to mean \"\u03BC\u03B1\u03BB\u03B1\u03BA\u03AC!\"
    (softly!) or \"\u03BC\u03B1\u03BB\u03AC\u03BA\u03B1!\" (wanker!), but that's another
    matter.\r\n\r\nFrankly, I've never seen Greek set in smallcaps <em>with</em> accents
    apart from some ugsome adverts produced for the Greek market by a foreign firm.
    But I've seen (and set) plenty of smallcap Greek <em>without</em> accents, quite
    independent of whether the text was Katharevousa (Purist), Archaic, Koine, or
    contemporary Demotiki.\r\n\r\nIf this sounds dismissive of the \"two-option model,\"
    well, yes, I guess it is. Just can't see the point of it, since one can either
    read the text or not. There may be historic reasons for doing otherwise but I'd
    like to learn (and see) what they are, as I'm fairly certain most \"old timers\"
    who set lead would simply snort and term it a mistake.\r\n\r\nHope this helps.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-17 19:04:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>That led me to believe there was a difference of opinion amongst
    the experts as to whether polytonic small caps should have accents or not.</em>\r\n\r\nUnderstandable.
    I was one of the people from whom Adobe sought advice, and while the discussion
    was lively it wasn't really contradictory. Most of it resolved around the best
    way to implement the historically observable options*; there wasn't a lot of disagreement
    about the need to support those options. I think at several points in the discussion
    Adobe were on the point of giving up on the whole idea of polytonic smallcaps,
    as they realised the amount of work involved in getting the casing rules implemented
    correctly. Its a testament to their commitment to quality typography that they
    stayed the course and that Arno is as good as it is.\r\n\r\n* Or at least, the
    major options. Once one starts looking at the full range of Greek typography,
    one encounters all sorts of strange practices that are well beyond what became
    the (relatively) standard norms of polytonic setting, e.g. accents after letters
    instead of before them.\r\n\r\n<em>A little off-topic, but should \u201Ccorrect\u201D
    fonts now include two sets of small cap glyphs? \u2014 one for substitutions from
    caps, one from lower case?</em>\r\n\r\nYou mean in the general sense, i.e. not
    Greek-specific? Adobe obviously want to encourage it, but I don't think they would
    use the term 'correct'. They recognise that it is a choice that depends on how
    much effort one wants to make in supporting Acrobat text reconstruction. Given
    than more and more PDFs are being produced using software that embeds the original
    character string in the document, the need for such text reconstruction is in
    decline, but it is still common enough to be a serious issue. Generally, I do
    not bother, but I always ask my clients how important it is to them that PDFs
    created from print streams, with raw GIDs instead of character codes, be accurately
    searchable. So far, other than Adobe, only one client has wanted to pay the extra
    money for this functionality in their fonts.\r\n\r\n\r\nRCC: <em>Frankly, I\u2019ve
    never seen Greek set in smallcaps with accents apart from some ugsome adverts
    produced for the Greek market by a foreign firm.</em>\r\n\r\nOne sees smallcaps
    with accents in renaissance Greek printing (i.e. outside of Greece but typically
    with the involvement of emigr\xE9 Greeks); indeed, it seems to have been the norm,
    with smallcaps apprently being treated as a variant of lowercase text rather than
    a form of all-caps.\r\n\r\nIn this, as in other aspects of Greek typography (e.g.
    the 'prosgegrammeni' vs ypogegrammeni contention for uppercase letters with mute
    iota) the issues are complicated by the independent traditions of typography for
    classical and Biblical scholarship outside of Greece. These traditions are not
    only independent of the Greek tradition, they are also independent of each other:
    German conventions differ from French conventions which differ from British conventions."
  created: '2008-02-17 19:29:13'
- author:
    name: rcc
    picture: 112031
  body: "John, thanks for those clarifications. (I wasn't being set-in-stone adamant,
    after all, for mine was a plainly hedged bet: \"To the extent one can legitimately
    generalize, contemporary practice in Greece has been..\") If you could post some
    representative examples (or cites), I, for one, would very much appreciate it.
    (Utterly off topic: Sorry to have missed a chance to meet with you, and others,
    when you were last over here, but a heart attack and hospitalization sent all
    my plans off the rails for quite a spell.)\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nRichard\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-17 19:46:50'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "The museum in Thessaloniki had many serifed Greek inscriptions which surprised
    me\r\nhttp://www.p22.com/photoalbum/ictvc3/ictvc3-Pages/Image148.html\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-17 19:59:45'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "<cite>The moir\xE9 suggests that it is from a printed work. Can we know what
    it is, please?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt's a quick-and-dirty scan from Martin Henig's <em>A
    Handbook of Roman Art.</em> The <em>ordinantur</em> means roughly \"are arranged\";
    it probably refers to the layout of the text but could maybe also have something
    to do with helping the client pick the right words to use. So the translations
    given above are correct. The Latin means something like \"Inscriptions are arranged
    and cut here for sacred temples and public works\". The Greek means something
    like \"Stelae are formed and cut here for sacred temples with public actions\".
    \r\n\r\nThe general meaning is clear enough, but there's room for doubt on the
    nuances because the wording is odd and awkward in either language. James, if you
    want to know more about it or maybe get a better image, the person to ask - who
    would know far more than I do - is Jonathan Prag at Oxford (Merton).\r\n\r\n(Apologies,
    Dan, for taking your thread so far off-topic.)"
  created: '2008-02-17 20:21:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Richard, I have posted a one example of renaissance Greek smallcaps on Flickr.
    Click on the 'All sizes' option to view a larger version of the image.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/36766351@N00/2272500310/\r\n\r\nThis
    is probably the most famous example of Greek smallcaps, and one of the earliest,
    from Laurentius de Alopa's edition of Apollonius of Rhodes, Florence 1496. Note
    the petite adscript mute iota. The scan is of the beautiful collotype reproduction
    in the original edition of Scholderer's <em>Greek Printing Types.</em> Where smallcaps
    are used for a body of text, as here, accentuation is probably more important
    than it would be in a title or other short use of smallcaps.\r\n\r\nI have a theory,
    which I would need to test against more samples, that the distinction between
    accenting smallcaps or not depends on whether the smallcaps are understood to
    represent lowercase/mixedcase text or all-cap text. In Latin script typography,
    we use smallcaps sometimes to represent lowercase letters, e.g. as a stylistic
    device in the first line of a chapter, and sometimes to represent uppercase letters,
    as in abbreviations such as UNESCO, but there is no visual distinction between
    the two. Renaissance typographers found that they could maintain a distinction
    between Greek smallcaps as variants of lowercase and Greek smallcaps as variants
    of all-caps by including or excluding accents. I don't know how consistent this
    use was, how widespread, or how long it persisted.\r\n\r\nHere is another example
    of Greek cap forms with accents from the Estienne edition of Isokrates of 1593.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/EstiennesIsokratesCaps_6145.jpg]\r\n\r\nThis
    is interesting because the title has the accents dropped, but the subhead has
    the accents. Although the capital letters in the subhead are technically not smallcaps,
    i.e. they are full size caps from an intermediate size of type, they are being
    treated as if there were smallcaps, which to this publisher at least means putting
    accents on them. But the typesetter has a problem, because accents on smallcaps
    go above the letter, not before the letter as in regular capitals, but he is using
    full size capitals from a different font so does not have sorts with accents above
    caps. So he has to insert the accents after the letters."
  created: '2008-02-17 20:50:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Perhaps Arno should have three sets of Greek small caps, also including a
    version with accents after the letters? ;-)\r\n\r\n<em>So he has to insert the
    accents after the letters.</em>\r\n\r\nThere may be more to it than that. Perhaps
    he made the distinction that small caps deserved their own style of accenting,
    so it didn't look like wannabe lower case, and so that it didn't take up too much
    vertical space (given that small caps are taller than \"kappa\" height.) And he
    came up with the \"somewhat after and somewhat above\" style. Note the different
    treatment of Omicron Varia and Omicron Oxia."
  created: '2008-02-17 21:14:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I don't think this is an attempt to create a new style for smallcap accentuation,
    Nick. I think the typesetter was making do as best as he could with what was in
    his type case. He's able to raise and slightly offset the marks over some letters,
    probably with the help of a file, using mark sorts that were designed to go over
    lowercase letters. Have you read the analysis of Aldine Greek printing in Peter
    Burnhill's <em>Type spaces</em>? The lengths that renaissance Greek printers went
    to is extraordinary.
  created: '2008-02-17 21:23:09'
- author:
    name: rcc
    picture: 112031
  body: "Thank you, John. The images are interesting indeed.\r\n\r\nIn the \"Isocrates\"
    example above, capitalization is all over the map: \u0394\u03B7\u03BC\u03CC\u03BD\u03B9\u03BA\u03BF\u03BD
    set partly in caps and the remainder in lowercase because of a syllable break
    (\u0394\u0397\u039C\u039F\u039D\u0399\u03BA\u03BF\u03BD \u2014 egad!) and \u03A0\u03B1\u03C1\u03B1\u03B9\u03BD\u03B5\u03C3\u03B5\u03B9\u03C2
    capitalized in one spot, but the declined \u03C0\u03B1\u03C1\u03B1\u03B9\u03BD\u03B5\u03C3\u03B5\u03C9\u03C2
    not so a few lines lower. This is truly wild stuff. Doubt an authentic \"pattern\"
    emerges apart from your comment \"the typesetter was making do as best as he could
    with what was in his type case.\" Nevertheless, it's fascinating.\r\n\r\nYet an
    unstated question hangs: Though examples from a relatively distant past document
    such small-cap usage, is there today a good rationale for maintaining what some
    might view as little more than a curiosity? (More baldly stated: Do you see a
    genuine market for this? The extra work entailed isn't <em>that</em> hard, but
    would it likely ever be used?)\r\n\r\nThanks again. Love those ligatures.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-17 21:54:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Yes, I've read Type Spaces.\r\nYou're right -- the typesetter appears to
    have used the lower case accents (they seem to be the same height), and has kerned
    them backwards where possible. By putting them after, and not before in the usual
    titlecase manner of cap accenting, he is pointedly saying \"these are accented
    more like lower case than upper case\". \r\n\r\nDo you think this conforms to
    any scribal practice, or is a typographic invention?"
  created: '2008-02-17 21:58:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Do you see a genuine market for this? </em>\r\n\r\nWhat's possible, and
    what's available, creates usage -- that's what's happened with the casing of certain
    Greek characters that only existed in \"upper case\" or \"lower case\" forms.
    So now we have serif fonts with that \"lightning bolt\" character (can't remember
    its name) in both cases, which AFAIK, was only ever a capital character, and sans
    serif.\r\n\r\nIt would seem that if a typographer today were going to use the
    \"accented small caps\" style, they would also want the Gamma that looks like
    Pi with a short leg (did I get that right?) and the extravagant ligatures, otherwise
    \"authentic\" isn't really authentic."
  created: '2008-02-17 22:06:31'
- author:
    name: rcc
    picture: 112031
  body: "Nick: <em>It would seem that if a typographer today were going to use the
    \u201Caccented small caps\u201D style...</em>\r\n\r\nWell, I guess more plainly
    stated, that <em>if</em> to me, at least at my present geographical remove, seems
    to loom rather large. I'm genuinely curious whether anyone is using these forms
    today for anything short of (potentially) pseudo-authentic reproductions. Would
    it be, in other words, merely a question of \"perceived value\" \u2014 cranking
    up the overall kilobyte weight by including scads of glyphs no one will likely
    ever access \u2014 or is there a bona fide contemporary need and usage? \r\n\r\nI'm
    decidedly in favor of offering extensive choices to users, mind you, but where,
    in the case present, is the tipping point at which one's merely adding something
    that's tantamount to an alien-faced alternate smiley, if you get my drift?"
  created: '2008-02-17 22:53:33'
- author:
    name: rcc
    picture: 112031
  body: "Nick: <em>... the Gamma that looks like Pi with a short leg (did I get that
    right?)</em>\r\n\r\nHave I overlooked something? Where did you see these? In the
    example John posted above there <em>are</em> a couple of capital \u03A0 characters
    with shortened right legs (\u03A0\u03A1\u039FC is one instance, \u03A5\u03A0\u039F\u0398\u0395\u03A3\u0399\u03A3,
    towards the bottom of the image is the other). Are those what you meant perhaps?"
  created: '2008-02-17 23:04:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Yes. But why are there two kinds of Pi?\r\nIs there a grammatical or typographical
    distinction?"
  created: '2008-02-17 23:17:25'
- author:
    name: rcc
    picture: 112031
  body: "Nick: <em>But why are there two kinds of Pi? Is there a grammatical or typographical
    distinction?</em>\r\n\r\nNeither, actually. It's merely an older form of Pi and,
    in the example shown, is more \"decorative\" than anything else. One might suppose,
    at first blush, that it was selected as an initial cap (for instance in \u03A0\u03A1\u039FC)
    but it's also been used in \u03A5\u03A0\u039F\u0398\u0395\u03A3\u0399\u03A3. Rather
    disorderly \u2014 if not to say devoid of apparent logic. Which is why I so readily
    agreed with John's observation that \"the typesetter was making do as best as
    he could with what was in his type case.\""
  created: '2008-02-17 23:47:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>is there today a good rationale for maintaining what some might view
    as little more than a curiosity? (More baldly stated: Do you see a genuine market
    for this? The extra work entailed isn\u2019t that hard, but would it likely ever
    be used?)</em>\r\n\r\nI don't know. One of the reasons I recommend the 'calt'
    feature approach is that it means the accents are suppressed by default: a user
    has to take an action in order to display them (and in some applications this
    isn't even an option, since they don't provide a UI mechanism to turn off the
    'calt' feature). My take on this is that the range of conventions of typesetting
    Greek is so wide and varied that providing for options is a good idea. I know
    that I tend to look further back than some people when considering what those
    options might be -- Yannis Haralambous was surprised, I think, by some of the
    older material I showed him --; I like being able to say 'Look, this thing was
    possible once, and now it's possible again'. I'd rather people have the option
    and decide not to use it than not to give them the option."
  created: '2008-02-18 06:41:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Do you think [the placement of accents after the letters in (sm)all-caps]
    conforms to any scribal practice, or is a typographic invention?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    suspect it's a typographic invention. Maybe it was invented during the typesetting
    of this particular page. I seem to recall Gerry Leonidas saying that he had seen
    similar things. I'm not aware of any scribal precedence, but then many Greek manuscripts
    were effectively monocase, using only lowercase letters."
  created: '2008-02-18 06:44:26'
- author:
    name: rcc
    picture: 112031
  body: "<em>One of the reasons I recommend the 'calt' feature approach is that it
    means the accents are suppressed by default: a user has to take an action in order
    to display them (and in some applications this isn't even an option, since they
    don't provide a UI mechanism to turn off the 'calt' feature).</em>\r\n\r\nNot
    wishing to become entangled in a coding snarl here, John, but wouldn't stylistic
    sets work equally as well? That is, why not have default smallcap and caps-to-smallcaps
    behavior for Greek, both mono- and polytonic, without accents (dialytika excepted)
    and then optionally apply accents to all these smallcaps via a stylistic set?
    If additional and/or optional typographic \"niceties\" are deemed requisite for
    said accented smallcap ranges, such could then be applied via a second stylistic
    set, right? So doing would appear to fulfill your criteria: accents suppressed
    by default, requiring users to actively choose to display them.\r\n\r\nIn fact,
    this approach seems so straightforward that I wonder why \"contextual alternates\"
    was chosen as the feature route to follow rather than \"stylistic sets.\" Issues
    of application UI support, perhaps? Less point-and-click maybe? What am I failing
    to notice on this count?\r\n\r\nThe matter appears to turn more on \"stylistic\"
    (at least by historic period) rather than \"contextual\" distinctions, but there
    may well be a Procrustean coding rationale at work in the shadows too. Please
    explain. Thank you.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-18 11:22:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "If you use the stylistic sets approach, then you are obliged to include a
    full set of Greek diacritic character smallcap variants with accents and a full
    set without accents. If you are following Adobe's approach on supporting Acrobat
    text reconstruction, then you are already including such sets, but if you are
    taking a more efficient approach to glyph set size and avoiding duplicate glyphs,
    then using 'calt' makes more sense. Also, the handling of the dialytika needs
    to be contextual, e.g. \u1F71\u03B9 needs to be replaced by \u0391\u03AA, and
    should be linked to whether or not the other accents are displayed, so it makes
    sense to include these contextual lookups in a contextual layout feature, rather
    than in a stylistic variants feature.\r\n\r\nA further thought regarding use of
    accented smallcaps: in the Laurentian edition of Apollonius Rhodius, smallcaps
    are used for the main body of text, and obviously one wants the reader to be able
    to read such text with ease, and not be concerned about possible ambiguities introduced
    by the absence of accents. Even if modern typographers choose to suppress accents
    in typical smallcap use, there may still be circumstances in which they would
    find it linguistically helpful to display them, perhaps even for individual words
    within otherwise unaccented text, in order to avoid ambiguity. Your 'wanker' example
    above might be just such a circumstance."
  created: '2008-02-18 17:46:26'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: Getting back to part one of the original question, might I mention <a href=http://www.parachute.gr/fonts.aspx?Sample=1&FontStyleID=&FontFamilyID=32&CharacterSetID=52>Monumenta</a>?
    I've no clue if the Greek is "authentic" to Latinized inscriptions, but the credits
    do say, "These letters are based on Roman and Greek characters carved on stone."
  created: '2008-02-19 14:40:12'
date: '2008-02-16 09:19:25'
title: Inscriptional Greek

---
