---
author:
  name: joeclark
  picture: 110605
body: "Just what the subject line says: Anyone still using Quark Xpress? I need a
  bit of help with a new research project (research task, really) and am canvassing
  for volunteers.\r\n\r\nThe same goes for Quark\u2019s matter/antimatter doppelg\xE4nger,
  InDesign CS3 (I have CS2)."
comments:
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: I just upgraded to CS3, and am excited about it. Can I help?
  created: '2008-02-18 15:39:15'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: I use CS 3 at work.
  created: '2008-02-18 15:57:48'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: wait till pattyfab comes online. she is the queen of quark.
  created: '2008-02-18 16:26:34'
- author:
    name: joshuaone9
    picture: 114270
  body: I still use Quark!
  created: '2008-02-18 16:43:21'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Joshua and/or Patty, do please drop me a line at <code>joeclark</code> at
    the same domain dot org.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2008-02-18 18:15:06'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: I'm using CS3. Feel free to contact me if I can assist.
  created: '2008-02-18 18:18:39'
- author:
    name: Gary Long
    picture: 112662
  body: I still use Quark 3.3 for simple things like business cards where I want I
    nice clean, fast, intuitive program. Hate InDesign CS, but had to jump to it for
    heavy-duty work when Quark wasn't keeping up.
  created: '2008-02-18 19:26:29'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "still Quark. E-mail coming to you, Joe Clark.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2008-02-18 22:07:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Print Action, the Canadian trade magazine, surveys this annually.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-18 22:54:35'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "I use Quark. I am interested in hearing more about your research. Please
    contact me at:\r\n\r\ntypographer@gmail.com"
  created: '2008-02-18 23:04:19'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I still use Quark a lot, as pointed out above. I'll drop you a line.\r\n\r\nI
    own CS3 but haven't installed it yet as I've been told it's slower on non-Intel
    macs. Is this true? I probably need to upgrade my laptop sooner rather than later
    to a MacBook Pro, so will test drive it on that. But I would be interested to
    know what other non-Intel Mac users think of CS3 as compared to 2."
  created: '2008-02-19 01:43:32'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I own CS3 but haven\u2019t installed it yet as I\u2019ve been told
    it\u2019s slower on non-Intel macs. Is this true?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt will be faster
    than CS2 unless you\u2019re low on RAM, in which case Rosetta can really be nasty.
    At work I\u2019m running CS3 on a dual G5 with 1.5 gigs of RAM and have no issues."
  created: '2008-02-19 01:56:07'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Patty, I'm hurt. You doubt my word? ;^D\r\n\r\nI'm using a 1.5 GHz PowerPC
    G4 with CS3 and am very happy that I did it. Oh and 1.5 GB of newer* SDRAM.\r\n\r\n*A
    meltdown that lead me to buying some new."
  created: '2008-02-19 05:59:49'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: 'Though I almost lost faith because of their arrogant foot-dragging over full
    OpenType support and their long refusal to offer good drop shadows and transparency,
    now that Quark 7 has caught up with everything I want, I''m back in the saddle
    with it and will never stray, foreseeably. I resent clients who presume to dictate
    my software, and I don''t permit them to do so--ever. I see no reason to have
    both clogging my system--not cheap, either. If InDesign is anything like Illustrator,
    as some have told me, then that''s another reason to spurn it: Illustrator I always
    detested as counter-intuitive.'
  created: '2008-02-19 07:35:03'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "i love and use quark. i hate indesign.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-02-19 08:35:55'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>I resent clients who presume to dictate my software, and I don\u2019t
    permit them to do so\u2014ever.</cite>\r\n\r\nEven if said client pays you around
    30Gs a year? Sorry if I'm not in a position to turn down that kind of money! You
    must have a pretty old machine if you're worried about two applications clogging
    it up. Plus, fluency in both softwares makes me much more versatile and therefore
    employable, why on earth would anyone deliberately fight that? \r\n\r\nIt is interesting
    to see so many fellow Quark users climbing out of their holes, it can feel lonely
    on this forum where Quark-bashing is somewhat of a blood sport.\r\n\r\nTiff -
    what did I say????"
  created: '2008-02-19 13:24:43'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "I jumped ship when Creative Suite 1 was introduced, and have avoided looking
    back. I've used CS1, 2, and am currently using 3 at work. Maybe the newest Quark
    is better, but they lost me at v6, for a variety of reasons. I'd been on 4.1 for
    years prior to that, with a tiny, itty-bitty stint on 3 at the beginning of my
    formal design education.\r\n\r\nThis is taking me back. Remember the authentication
    dongles? Ha!"
  created: '2008-02-19 14:28:35'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "@pattyfab : maybe our friends at adobe can chime in here, but my understanding
    was that CS2 was optimized for pre-intel macs and will run **slightly** slower
    on intel macs, and CS3 was optimized for intel macs and runs **slightly** slower
    on pre-intels.\r\n\r\nRAM, of course, makes a difference but i have both versions
    on both types of mac (both with 2 Gigs RAM) and i can't tell any difference in
    speed. i think we're talking nanoseconds..."
  created: '2008-02-19 15:25:56'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: Quark lost me when it came out with 5, I stayed with 4 until 6 came out; but
    by then I was using ID so much i rarely touched Quark. I don't mind it as a program
    at all really, But I've gotten so used to the Bridge/Illustrator/Photoshop/InDesign
    workflow I doubt I'd be as willing to switch now. To me that's the biggest thing,
    I never used Bridge before CS3, but it makes my work so much easier these days
    I'd cringe not having it for full-time work.
  created: '2008-02-19 15:29:07'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "@pattyfab - but a tech at the apple store told me that CS2 adobe bridge will
    NOT work properly on an intel mac, and CS3 bridge will not work properly on a
    pre-intel. on his recommendation i uninstalled bridge (only) on those combinations.\r\n\r\nanyone
    with insider knowledge care to clear this up ?"
  created: '2008-02-19 15:40:31'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: "To answer Pattyfab's quite reasonable objections: yes, if a big-money client
    wanted it that bad, I would add InDesign, but fortunately my clients are small,
    not very software-literate themselves, and just want output-ready files for the
    printer. \r\n\r\nThe one thing I am deeply grateful to Adobe for is Acrobat--now
    there's an application that really transformed our world!"
  created: '2008-02-19 16:44:49'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Another Quark 7 user (occasional) here. Nothing against ID, just don't have
    it...\r\n\r\nAgreed about Acrobat though!"
  created: '2008-02-19 16:57:51'
- author:
    name: The Don Killuminati
    picture: 113938
  body: "I'm a fully-committed InDesign user that only rarely launches Quark, usually
    only to re-save old documents into versions that can be converted to InDesign
    documents. \r\n\r\nAnd it's a shame, really. Using Quark on a day-to-day basis
    was a blast. I remember it as one of the most responsive and enjoyable programs
    I've ever used. As gamers would say, it had great \"playability.\" Working in
    \ Quark was like improvising on the piano. It had it's flaws for certain, but
    for practiced users it all but disappeared under your hands. \r\n\r\nAt its height
    I think Quark enjoyed 85% market share. Unfortunately the company decided to celebrate
    with intensely predatory pricing, openly hostile customer service and a manic
    obsession with security. Many of us were openly begging Adobe to hurry up with
    getting InDesign to market. And I'm sure Quark saw in Adobe the end of their monopolistic
    spree and tried to squeeze as much out of the market as possible before getting
    kicked back. \r\nI may be wrong, but it seems that these days most Quark users
    are holdovers from this earlier era. A majority of working designers have switched
    to InDesign and, unless I'm mistaken, a majority of formal design education in
    InDesign as well, so it's what all the kids are using. But surely somebody becoming
    acclimated to InDesign and <em>then</em> switching to Quark is rather rare?"
  created: '2008-02-19 17:16:37'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I find Adobe Bridge (using CS2 on a pre-Intel mac) sluggish and cumbersome.
    Every time I have tried to use it I have been frustrated. I actually use iView
    which is free and less intrusive than iPhoto and lets you organize and view your
    photos really easily. That is essential for the kind of work I do, which often
    involves sequencing photos. I set up the sequence in iView and then lay it out
    in Quark or InD. You can actually drag photos into those programs from iView.\r\n\r\nI'm
    sure Bridge is a fine software and probably just need to sit down with someone
    who can show me how it is supposed to work.\r\n\r\n@Chris - yes, that was what
    I had heard about intel/non-intel and the various CS versions, which is the main
    reason I've hung onto my CS3 without installing it. Also I really dislike the
    InDesign Interchange system; wish they had a better way to downsave. In Quark
    you just downsave and it gives you an alert that you are doing that (which of
    course you already know) but the file isn't altered."
  created: '2008-02-19 17:18:34'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Does anyone know\r\n\r\n1. If/when there is going to be a Quark 8?\r\n\r\n2.
    Does Quark 7 have compatibility issues with Leopard?"
  created: '2008-02-19 17:24:06'
- author:
    name: Steve Tiano
  body: I'm still using Quark for freelance book design and layout projects. Just
    retired 6.5 and using 7.31 full-time. I also use InDesign CS2. As 95% of the publishers
    and packagers for whom I work want Quark, I haven't bothered to upgrade to CS3
    yet. Coincidentally, I'm scheduled to start a teacher's and student's editions
    chemistry textbook project end of this week. In InDy. First InDy project in months.
    I work on a dual-processor G5 running OS 10.4.11.
  created: '2008-02-20 03:26:55'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Yeah, as Steven pointed out, book publishing is still heavily Quark oriented,
    altho a few of my publishing clients prefer InD.
  created: '2008-02-20 03:41:58'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "patty and Steve \u2014 I'm curious about this comment on publishers: Don't
    they just want a pdf at the end? Why do they care what it is composed in? Genuine
    questions, not rhetorical.\r\n\r\nbest\r\n\r\nEl.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-20 03:48:06'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "No, they want native files, not a pdf. My clients sometimes make editorial
    correx themselves too, so they need to be able to work on the files. Also, the
    printer sometimes has to be able to go into them.\r\n\r\nFor so long Quark was
    the only game in town and publishing types are not always the first to jump on
    a new application. "
  created: '2008-02-20 05:43:24'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: It depends on the kind of publishing. For the people I work with, Unicode
    has made workflow so much simpler that basically everyone went to InDesign during
    the period after the releases of Win2K, OS X, and ID2.0 and before Quark 7.
  created: '2008-02-20 06:57:16'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi all,\r\n\r\nI am also passionate about InDesign.\r\n\r\nNevertheless I
    still have to use XPress at home with my R800 Espon (on Classic platform!!;-)\r\nbecause
    from InDesign he stamps type (seems to me) as if in bitmap solution while\r\nonly
    Quark (the elder ones) gives me the sharp edged letters.\r\nDon\u2019t know why.\r\nAnyone
    with the same prob?\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2008-02-20 09:46:37'
- author:
    name: nora g
    picture: 113099
  body: 'In 1992 i began with Quark ... and you dont'' want to change what you get
    used to if there is no need ... there was need 3 years ago. I had to switch to
    InDesign because of incoming InDesign documents of some clients which i had to
    handle. I hate learning software and in the beginning it was a hard struggle,
    but today i like to work with InDesign and don''t look back anymore. '
  created: '2008-02-20 17:33:34'
- author:
    name: lmariop
    picture: 114020
  body: "I use both at a master level, they are both necessary. Quark 8 hopefully
    will be the first update to really add some features. 6.5-7 was a real wasted
    of time, whooo-hooo, drop shadows! Drop shadows are weeeeeaaaaaaak! A couple of
    new usability features but I mean come on! The only really great thing about Q7
    is the opentype support. InDesign definately takes some time getting used to.
    And if you don't like illustrator because it's not \"intuitive\" then you need
    to spend more time learning the apps before you jump right in and work on a job
    for a client. I can't actually say i've met an app the wasn't intuitive, other
    than some raw image processing apps throughout the years. Unfortunately I am not
    the most common user, I am the type of person who loves finding the limitations
    in apps in the first 30 minutes of use, then bitching and complaining about the
    hacks that programmed it to begin with! I have a running joke with some friends
    that if we ever come across someone involved with programming quark, well you
    know the rest! lol! :)\r\n\r\nCheers"
  created: '2008-02-20 18:36:55'
- author:
    name: Steve Tiano
  body: "I dunno, maybe I'm just more of a production type. Yes, I'm more familiar
    with Quark. Then again, I came to Quark at version 3. I'd been using an old version
    of PageMaker that limited me to one-page docs, and I was going to be laying out
    my very first book. This was not a design job. Quark 3 was what the book packager
    I was subbing the layout work from had their template in.\r\n\r\nAfter awhile
    PageMaker came out with a version that allowed multi-page docs and books became
    possible. A non-profit I did book design and layout for over the course of a few
    years had PageMaker and was not about to spend money and time on the upstart,
    Quark.\r\n\r\nAt the time, no one had been dealing with PDFs. This changed for
    me around 1999. Once I discovered PDFs and printers began accepting them, I tried
    to send only PDFs to my clients, retaining control over the native files in case
    of reprints and new editions. I always described them as \"cross-platform, printer-ready
    PDFs,\" hoping it wouldn't occur to the client that most of the value was in the
    native files.\r\n\r\nWhen InDesign came along, it seemed to be PageMaker on steroids.
    I learned InDy on version 2, recreating the look of a previously published book's
    new edition. It had originally been done in Quark, but whoever had done the first
    book held on to the native files, so I was hired to create a book that looked
    like the old one. InDy was easy to learn and use, tho' through the first CS version
    I wasn't much impressed with InDy's much vaunted type-handling powers. Perhaps
    it was my growing experience with InDy, but I find that in CS2, I like how it
    handles type a lot more.\r\n\r\nAs I said, most of the places for which I work
    use Quark. If it's not a design job, but straight book layout, I'm provided a
    template. 95% of the time the template is still a Quark template."
  created: '2008-02-20 21:21:06'
- author:
    name: Freeza
    picture: 114205
  body: I love InDesign CS 3 :)
  created: '2008-02-20 23:22:57'
- author:
    name: Rodrigue Planck
    picture: 109713
  body: "One thing about Quark way over ID, kerning tables, kern once, WOW! Quark
    prints great, from a production standpoint as well, ID is no slouch, but like
    a lot of programs, it is not so much better than Quark that easy migration away
    from Quark. The files I see, are 75% Quark, 22% ID, 3%\u2026you guess. ID is a
    great legitimate contender, but Quark has not been dethroned as the king of page
    layout. I'm just happy that PageMaker is finally in the past. It really does not
    matter which one you choose, they are both great.\r\n\r\nThe Truth shall set you
    free"
  created: '2008-02-20 23:41:54'
- author:
    name: lirmac
    picture: 113262
  body: "A worrying thing about the Quark v ID issue: a lot of the design colleges
    only seem to be teaching ID these days. The new crop of design students interning
    in my neck of the woods don't have any Quark experience at all, which is a huge
    disadvantage for them \u2013 at least in book design. As Patty so rightly points
    out, publishers want Quark. It doesn't matter if ID is more sophisticated (argue
    this at your leisure), Quark is what they've been using for years, and they intend
    to continue using it. I love ID, but I won't be uninstalling Quark any time soon!"
  created: '2008-02-21 11:02:44'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: Adobe has been very aggressive in pursuing academic institutions and indoctrinating
    students as well as the technology depts, which I'm sure has contributed to that
    trend. I'm not judging or criticizing, as this is a savvy and successful tactic.
    When I graduated, Adobe had formed strong ties within our school.
  created: '2008-02-21 21:48:01'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: 'Adobe has long offered an education price. Quark refused to do this, and
    priced their product so that students simply couldn''t afford it. (In Australia
    the price was astronomical. Everyone but the big companies seemed to use Pagemaker.)
    Quark have only themselves to blame for their demise. If students are trained
    on InD it shouldn''t be too hard for them to adapt to Quark. '
  created: '2008-02-21 23:17:52'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>One thing about Quark way over ID, kerning tables, kern once, WOW!</cite>\r\n\r\nThank
    you Rodrigue! I've been such a broken record on this topic I had to read back
    through the thread to make sure I wasn't repeating myself. As far as I know Adobe
    has no plans to add this feature unless \"thousands of users ask for it\", which
    is a real shame. \r\n\r\nSee here:\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/7608\r\n\r\nBoth
    apps have their strengths and weaknesses, from small stuff (like why can't you
    forward delete in InD) to how annoying it is to add/change a color swatch in Quark.
    And like Hillary and Obama, they are more alike than different. As I said, my
    clients use both, I am very fluent in both, and I think a designer does him/herself
    a disservice by not being able to master both. Quark's arrogance at the dawn of
    the OS X era left the door wide open for Adobe to jump in, and luckily for them
    they got it right. If InD had been just a Pagemaker rehash it would not have caught
    on. It does seem like the kids are all using InD tho."
  created: '2008-02-21 23:31:53'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "I remember about 5 years ago when there was all the agonising over Quark
    5, someone posted something a to mac forum about how none of the programmers who
    had done Quark 4 still worked there \u2014 they had all been let go because for
    a long time there was no work for them to do. So when it came to building Quark
    5 there was no one left who had an intimate knowledge of the code. It was outsourced
    to India and the whole thing had to be coded from scratch. Quark are still recovering
    from that huge spell where they coasted on their predatory licensing fees.\r\n\r\nCEO's
    who f***-up as badly as Quark's did should be able to be sued down the track for
    the recovery of some of their outrageous salaries. CEO's seem to be the only people
    left in the world who get paid whether they are good or whether they are completely
    crap."
  created: '2008-02-22 04:28:48'
- author:
    name: lubitel
  body: 'Here in Germany, I think there are very few people using quark. Its all InDesign.
    I used Quark untill version 4 or 5, then the whole company switched to InDesign,
    and I havent seen a Quark document in 2 years ;) and frankly, I dont miss it at
    all. '
  created: '2008-02-22 11:02:12'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: InDesign is, I believe, more popular in Finland, too. One reason is the slowness
    of getting a Finnish version of Quark out. I think one version didn't have a Finnish
    version at all. The latest localised one just came out, and the translations are
    slightly amusing. I'm a bit dubious about the proofreading, too.
  created: '2008-02-22 15:42:41'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "<em>Yeah, as Steven pointed out, book publishing is still heavily Quark oriented,
    altho a few of my publishing clients prefer InD.</em>\r\n\r\nYears ago I did a
    Teachers Guide and a Student book to go with it. Built in Quark and it was easy
    to work with. Currently I am doing a book and doing it in InDesign and it's not
    been a pretty picture of smooth sailing. Mostly because I am annoyed with how
    ID sets up TOC and Indexes.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-22 15:51:25'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "OK I just figured out something I find VERY problematic about InDesign (and
    which is requiring a lot of extra work on my part). \r\n\r\nWhen you create a
    Character Style, InD assigns it leading. If you then go back and change the leading
    of the Paragraph Style, the leading of the Character Style will override it. What
    the hell is up with that? In Quark, the Paragraph Style contains the leading,
    the point of Character Style is to apply it only to certain characters or words
    within the paragraph, not to affect the attributes of the paragraph itself.\r\n\r\nI
    also find it odd that you can change the leading of only one line of a paragraph
    in InD. In Quark you simply have to place your curser anywhere in the paragraph
    (or line if it's one line long) and you can change the leading. In InD you have
    to select the entire bloody thing.\r\n\r\nPlus - why isn't there a key command
    action in InD to call up the \"Text Frame Options\" pane? That is a very useful
    pane, and it drives me nuts to have to go to the menu each time.\r\n\r\nOK griping
    over for now."
  created: '2008-02-22 15:58:57'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: Those are just a couple of things that bug me about InDesign, Patty. I have
    a whole list. But most of my students use InD -- and very few use Quark -- primarily
    because they usually purchase the whole suite.
  created: '2008-02-22 16:07:02'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "By and large, I really like InD. I'm just kind of bugged by all the anti-Quark
    sentiment on this forum, mostly I suspect by people who probably never really
    used it much before they started using InD. As I said above, there are way more
    similarities than differences btw the apps. They are both wonderful, useful applications,
    but both have significant weaknesses.\r\n\r\nNew York finally has some serious
    snow! Of course it's supposed to melt later today."
  created: '2008-02-22 16:11:52'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Patty --\r\n\r\nThe leading thing can be turned off: Preferences > Type --
    check \"Apply Leading to Entire Paragraphs\" under Type Options. This will give
    you behavior more like Quark's. I don't know why this is off by default. I always
    tell my designers to change their default preferences to have this option turned
    on.\r\n\r\nBTW, I was an avid Quark user for many years, and even though I've
    been using primarily InDesign for the past few years, it's still not as fast and
    efficient as I was in Quark. At first I chalked it up to learning curve. But after
    a couple years, it seems to me that there are just several basic day-in-day-out
    actions that require more mousing and menu-hunting in InDesign than in Quark,
    no way around it.\r\n\r\nNow that Q7 supports OT, I should get back into it.\r\n\r\n--
    K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-22 17:58:49'
- author:
    name: mauphie
    picture: 110791
  body: "In regards to schools and students using InDesign exclusively, Speak Up recently
    touched on the subject by posting the question: Do students need to learn Quark?\r\n\r\nI
    was surprised at how vehement many of the responders were in saying Quark was
    dead and you need not bother learning it. \r\n\r\n[[http://www.underconsideration.com/speakup/archives/004449.html]]\r\n\r\nAnd
    yet on this forum, Quark seems to be alive (or at least treading water)....\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-22 18:27:48'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Kent - THANKS! Big help.\r\n\r\nI also only just learned about that thingie
    at the top left that stops InD centering everything. I am self-taught so I missed
    a lot of tips and tricks. Tiffany and Linda have been getting me up to speed on
    some of them.\r\n\r\nOne HUGE InD advantage is the ability to have your bleed
    marks automatically."
  created: '2008-02-22 19:29:25'
- author:
    name: tina
    picture: 109693
  body: "Patty, possibly this helps, too: \r\n\r\nCharacter styles in InDesign are
    a different cup of tea compared to Quark and some other programs: In Indesign
    they report <strong>only the differences</strong> between them and the paragraph
    style. So a paragraph style can contain e.g. simply a different color or size,
    nothing else. \r\n\r\nJust try e.g. creating a character style based on a word
    which is marked bold. When looking into the new character style dialog box, all
    of the definition fields are empty, there is only one field with \"bold\" in it.
    \r\n\r\nThis means, if you don't specify the leading in the character style dialog
    box, the leading of the paragraph style will be applied unchanged.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-22 20:25:33'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "I've found using stone implements superior to Quark. I enjoy being able to
    cut-and-paste most vectors from Illustrator, and transparency support (if this
    has changed in quark, I am unaware). I have found Indesign all around easier to
    use in every way shape and form than Quark. The only thing InDesign should have
    is Quark's key command to make a alien come onto the screen to delete an object
    (anyone else ever see that?)\r\n\r\n\r\nI thought a really funny part about quarks
    ad campaign a few years back is that they were boasting \"multiple undos.\" That's
    kinda like trying to sell a car merely on the merit it has brakes."
  created: '2008-02-22 20:42:02'
- author:
    name: emenninga
  body: 'There are 2 places where an alien appears in InDesign CS3 -- the print dialog
    and the about box. Google can help with the details... '
  created: '2008-02-22 21:54:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Eric, some very experienced book designers here on Typophile--Patty, above,
    and Charles Ellertson--have pointed to Quark's ability to adjust kerning globally
    in a font as a key thing they miss in InDesign. \r\n\r\nSeveral have made clear
    also that book publishing--in the US at any rate--is where adoption of InDesign
    has been much slower. Will it really take thousands of people to ask for this
    before it happens in InDesign, as someone said above? I would think that for marketing
    InDesign to book designers this would be worthwhile, but I have no idea how much
    programming is involved. "
  created: '2008-02-22 22:21:50'
- author:
    name: tina
    picture: 109693
  body: "Perhaps some useful script can be found in the scripts list provided by the
    swiss user forum \"hilfdirselbst\":\r\n\r\nKerningOrNoBreak.js\r\nWeist definierten
    Zeichenfolgen (extern) entweder automatischen Kerning oder das Zeichenattribut
    \"Kein Umbruch\" zu.\r\n(applies automatic kerning or the character style \"no
    break\" to externally pre-defined strings of characters)\r\n\r\nKerningSuchen.js\r\nErm\xF6glicht
    das Suchen nach definierten Kerningwerten.\r\n(enables seeking for pre-defined
    kerning values)\r\n\r\nsee here: http://hilfdirselbst.org/index1.php?read_article=16"
  created: '2008-02-22 22:56:11'
- author:
    name: emenninga
  body: "In response to William - \r\nI totally agree and we have heard about built-in
    kern pair editing from multiple sources; I remember the childrens' books publishers
    being especially persuasive. I could deliver the normal \"resource constraints\"
    and \"feature trade-off\" excuses but the biggest reason why this feature is difficult
    for us is that we feel it would be a mistake to have a kern pair editor that could
    not share the updated kerning with at least Illustrator & Photoshop. That makes
    InDesign's ranking of the feature less of a determining factor. We are still working
    on the global solution and we're trying to assist plugin developers who are working
    on InDesign-only solutions."
  created: '2008-02-23 00:51:17'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Eric, thank you for the first valid explanation I have yet to receive as
    to why InDesign doesn't have kerning pairs. But I will say that since Illustrator
    and P-shop are not really designed for typesetting it seems to me this feature
    is less significant there. Not a good reason to hold up implementing it in InD.\r\n\r\n<cite>This
    means, if you don\u2019t specify the leading in the character style dialog box,
    the leading of the paragraph style will be applied unchanged.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    way I create style sheets is to mock up a design I like and then select the various
    elements one by one and make style sheets directly from them. I don't know if
    everyone works this way, but it was a feature of Quark too and it is infinitely
    easier than creating style sheets from scratch. \r\n\r\nWhat happened was that
    I created a paragraph style sheet for recipe directions and then a character style
    sheet for the step numbers. I didn't do anything to the leading when I did that.
    I later changed the leading in the paragraph style sheet, and it didn't occur
    to me that I then had to change it in the character style sheet as well. And then
    I didn't notice for a long time that the char. style sheet was overriding the
    paragraph style sheet and inserting an additional point of lead. Lots of work
    to go back and fix alignments and such."
  created: '2008-02-23 03:07:16'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Although Miguel is an Adobe employee, and a really clever guy, he was overstating
    the case when he said that it would take \"thousands\" of requests to get a saved-kern-pairs
    functionality into InDesign.\r\n\r\nIf this is something you (anyone reading this)
    care about, it's a matter of moments to fill out the feature request form, here:
    http://www.adobe.com/cfusion/mmform/index.cfm?name=wishform\r\n\r\nI know for
    a fact that InDesign product management looks at every request that comes in for
    InDesign.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-02-23 06:21:04'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Thomas, thanks. As Miguel suggested in the earlier thread, I did post a request
    directly to Adobe. I encourage Rodrigue and anyone else who misses this feature
    in InDesign to do the same.
  created: '2008-02-23 16:57:31'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: Yes, "thousands" was an overstatement, but having a thousand requests for
    this feature will definitely help the product managers realize how important it
    is, and therefore instruct the engineers to implement it sooner. That said, the
    more the better!
  created: '2008-02-23 17:55:38'
- author:
    name: Rodrigue Planck
    picture: 109713
  body: "On Adobes website there is this plug-in:\r\nhttp://www.knowbody.dk\r\nLooks
    ok, but runs 100 USD for kerning, then 100 USD for tracking, and on first blush,
    not as intuitive as Quarks.\r\nPatty, it is obvious to me that Adobe does not
    care about this feature, it should have been included in PageMaker! If Adobe wishes
    not to recognize a feature that would actually pull potential clients away from
    their biggest rival, why would I want to put in a feature request? This should
    have been foundational in V1 or 1.5. \r\nChipman: Do you really think IDs counter
    intuitive box implementation is better than Quarks simple one? After 8 years of
    V1, V2, CS, CS2 and CS3, I still do not get it, or see its benefit, it is clumsy
    to me.  \r\nUltimately, anyone can make either product work quite well, but who
    does not get miffed when a feature is left out of a competing product, which claims
    so much superiority.\r\nAs many here have pointed out that Quark so inept, why
    can't Adobe match this feature? If you believe the engineers at Adobe are so much
    better than what is coming out of Quark, what is the hold up?\r\nSome time back
    people on Typophile were posting how backward Quark is/was, but to me features
    of basic typographical control are far more important than transparency, because
    I can use PhotoShop for most any transparency. There are some features that I
    love in ID, like the measurement box with 9 points in it, it is great, so precise
    for print production, far superior to Quark. \r\nThe Truth shall set you free"
  created: '2008-02-23 21:09:58'
- author:
    name: dazzer21
  body: "I'm using Quark. Have been using 4.1 on a Mac G4 for years. It's brilliant
    *in as much that* it's very fast and although it doesn't have all the bells and
    whistles, I can create just about every visual effect that v7 can by way of close
    integration with Photoshop and Illustrator without spending TOO much extra time
    on things. Now I'm using v7 on an iMac 2.8GHz (2Gb RAM). Oh dear...\r\n\r\nI'm
    sick to the back teeth of it. It garbles bitmap TIF files and the only way I can
    get the images to reproduce properly is by replacing them with .psd files, which
    adds a lot of extra weight to the documents. THEN there's the issue of PDF creation
    - it's cr@p, cr@p, cr@p!!!\r\n\r\nQuark 4 - make your document. Utilities -> create
    PDF; wait while Quark creates a reasonably sized EPS file, opens Distiller automatically,
    produces PDF file incredibly efficiently.\r\n\r\nQuark 7 - make document while
    having to work around its flaws, including the problem just mentioned. File ->
    Export to PDF. Wait while Quark creates an impossibly huge EPS file (a looooooooong
    time...) and then be amazed when after a similarly lengthy amount of time, a PDF
    of totally unusable file size has been produced. Doing it through Distiller doesn't
    make the file much smaller, but does reduce the time the PDF stage takes considerably.
    But it's the EPS file creation that is the real killer - I'm getting Gb sized
    files.\r\n\r\nI've pulled my hair out trying to get to the bottom of all of this
    via various forum discussion - it scares me just how many people come up against
    this. Does anyone here have any ideas? I'm finding all this pathetic. I have InDesign
    now. I'm not using it in anger yet, but the beauty of it being able to seemingly
    easily convert my Quark 4 files is looking all too appealing...\r\n\r\nhelp!"
  created: '2008-09-25 16:31:39'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Can you please create a new thread? Then I'll come back with my ideas.\r\n\r\nAlthough
    you sounds pretty frazzled so I will suggest just flattening your photoshop files.
    And can't you print directly to distiller? I haven't used Quark for year. Or you
    can print to a .PS (postscript) file instead of .EPS no?"
  created: '2008-09-25 18:51:22'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: Now that we have Quark 8, has anyone changed their opinion/position re the
    Quark vs. InDesign debate?
  created: '2008-10-08 12:57:04'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Why not wait three weeks and compare it to InDesign CS4?\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-10-09 05:06:51'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "i'm one of those kids who does not know quark well, i used it a few times
    in my first job, but they preferred indesign, so i used that, and since then every
    place i've worked has pretty much just used the creative suite. for me now, quark
    is just an extra expense i can't justify when i can do almost everything with
    indesign. \r\n\r\nthat said, i would love to get into the publishing industry,
    so if most publishers are using quark, i'd be happy to learn it. \r\n"
  created: '2008-11-27 00:14:19'
- author:
    name: alight2
    picture: 115149
  body: "I've been using Quark since '89. Also use InDesign CS3. Have Quark 8.\r\n\r\nI
    love the typographic control of Quark. Can't beat the ability to quickly make
    changes and design with your keyboard, rather than a clumsy mouse or even turbomouse
    as you need to mostly do in InDesign."
  created: '2009-01-15 01:42:50'
date: '2008-02-18 14:34:42'
title: Anyone still using Quark? (Also InDesign CS3)

---
