---
author:
  name: G T
  picture: 128201
body: "Cardiff, the capital of Wales unvails a new logo in an attempt to rid itself
  of dragons and daffodils and become hip and young.\r\n\r\nlame. What a load of balonium.
  \r\n\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/wales/south_east/7250149.stm"
comments:
- author:
    name: writingdesigning
    picture: 112522
  body: "That's so hugely disappointing!!! Who did it?\r\n\r\nWhat's wrong with dragons
    anyway, they tend to look so smart in destination logos like [[http://www.travelwales.org|the
    one]] for Wales Tourism. "
  created: '2008-02-18 15:22:27'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "That\u2019s pathetic\u2014did they hire the branding firm of the living dead
    for that boring, trite, dated nonsense? Given the requirements any branding person
    with half a brain should have just developed the dragon into an avatar and dumped
    that static mark concept entirely. Does anyone else feel that projects like this
    one have a lot to do with why designers still have to justify everything we do
    to so many clients?"
  created: '2008-02-18 15:32:42'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: "45k... hats off to that.\r\n\r\nbland, generic, unimaginative...\r\n\r\nencroyable"
  created: '2008-02-18 15:41:02'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'The logo undoes three years of work by the BBC to make Cardiff cool... http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Torchwood '
  created: '2008-02-18 15:49:28'
- author:
    name: writingdesigning
    picture: 112522
  body: "\"...projects like this one have a lot to do with why designers still have
    to justify everything we do to so many clients?...\"\r\n\r\nThat's very likely.
    But there are also instances where the client is extremely 'nice' and just approves
    the first thing the design firm walks in with. It is not exactly unknown for branding
    agencies to recycle options from previous briefs."
  created: '2008-02-18 15:54:17'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Sii, I was thinking the same thing! If the BBC can make Wales interesting,
    why can\u2019t a design firm? Of course, the BBC is sort of its own client, but
    still!"
  created: '2008-02-18 15:55:08'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: listen, the dark lords of branding themselves couldn't make cardiff cool.
  created: '2008-02-18 16:04:58'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i'm not sure you can call torchwood cool...
  created: '2008-02-18 16:08:45'
- author:
    name: G T
    picture: 128201
  body: "'If the BBC can make Wales interesting, why can\u2019t a design firm?'\r\n\r\nMaybe
    'cos they're far too busy trying to make it look 'fresh' and 'young' and many
    other meaningless adjectives than to make it Welsh. I know its not easy to make
    something modern and yet at the same time retain some historical references, but
    this is throwaway design.\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2008-02-18 16:08:58'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>i\u2019m not sure you can call torchwood cool...</cite>\r\n\r\nCompared
    to what Wales used to be known for, it\u2019s cool, even if it does make the sheep
    feel left out."
  created: '2008-02-18 16:12:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Bland crap - doesn't say 'City'. It says \"I'm a designer who can't be bothered
    to think of anything, but this idea is in at the moment so  I'll do this, so as
    not to waste any precious brain cells\".\r\n\r\nCircles in perspective (I'm sure
    there's a proper name for it) are the new 'arch thing' (I'm sure there was a name
    for that also).\r\n\r\nWhy are logotypes designed with built-in obsolescence nowadays?
    That is going to look so dated very quickly. In fact it will probably look dated
    by the time I post this comment.\r\n\r\n45K? Nice work if you can get it.\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2008-02-18 16:15:24'
- author:
    name: G T
    picture: 128201
  body: "why does Cardiff need to be cool. Why can't it just be Welsh.\r\n\r\nTom
    Jones isn't cool, he wears leather trousers for god's sake. But women still throw
    their pants at him, which is the effect I'm sure the client was hoping looking
    for\u2026"
  created: '2008-02-18 16:16:10'
- author:
    name: G T
    picture: 128201
  body: "'Why are logotypes designed with built-in obsolescence nowadays?'\r\n\r\nSo
    we get to design new ones in 5 years time."
  created: '2008-02-18 16:21:36'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: doesn't this thread belong on the design forum  ?
  created: '2008-02-18 16:28:54'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Why are logotypes designed with built-in obsolescence nowadays?</cite>\r\n\r\nSo
    freelance designers can get lots of phone calls about not wanting to pay more
    than $99 for a logo because the expensive ones are just a scam anyway."
  created: '2008-02-18 16:31:33'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "<cite>doesn\u2019t this thread belong on the design forum ?</cite>\r\n\r\nMunicipal
    governments overpaying for crappy design are as bad as those that hold \"contests\"
    to get decent work from inexperienced and/or desperate designers for nearly nothing
    (as San Francisco did for their bus company a decade ago; the \"winning\" design
    was never used due to the outcry). Both practices hurt us all in the graphic design
    community. It's a political and economic issue."
  created: '2008-02-18 18:13:36'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Something I don't get is why companies and organizations don't just get a
    new ident, and simply start using it. Why the press release and press conference?
    Why publicize the $'s it cost, or the designers invovled? Why the designery BS
    about synergy and dynamism? Just use it, if it can't stand on its own, then it's
    failed design. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-18 18:28:38'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Besides, as illustrated in the article, though buried way down in the comments,
    The Cardiff logo is virtually identical to the one from Greek Tourism. At least
    in that case the cluster of circles could be interpreted as a bunch of islands,
    which has <em>some</em> relevance for Greece.
  created: '2008-02-18 18:38:35'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: ">i\u2019m not sure you can call torchwood cool...\r\n\r\nPaul, to be fair,
    the two episodes that have aired since the one you saw were better ;-)"
  created: '2008-02-18 18:47:45'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Sii, the PR departments have to justify their existence somehow!
  created: '2008-02-18 18:54:58'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "@cuttlefish : yes, i see yr point about being a political issue. which brings
    me to a topic i've wanted to launch for discussion for some time, but it's loaded,
    vague, ripe for argument, and my thoughts thus far are rather superficial. \r\nbut
    the recent writer's strike got me thinking about this again :\r\n\r\nhow is it
    that composers and writers have a mechanism and several organizations in place
    to ensure residual payments over extended usage (royalties, etc) but graphic designers
    and illustrators don't ?\r\n\r\nthere are exceptions - character design, font
    design licenses, deals detailing subsequent media, etc., but in general it seems
    that the graphic artists get the shortest stick. i've commissioned music for animated
    graphics which i've produced and the composers still get royalties everytime it
    plays. i got a flat fee, end of story.\r\n\r\nany thoughts ? new thread ?"
  created: '2008-02-18 19:01:03'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "http://forum.theorchidsource.com/attachments/Krylon1.jpg\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-02-18 19:10:35'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.mymms.com/customprint/?src=112117&sc_cid=C_MC_37_N00_MA9ALN00CMC37111\">The
    story about the logo + the designer</a> :^)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-18 19:23:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>...ditching the \"stereotype\" of daffodils and dragons.</em>\r\n\r\nPicking
    on helpless daffodils is just plain mean. But no one ditches a dragon.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CardiffRevenge_4291.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-18 20:45:29'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>how is it that composers and writers have a mechanism and several organizations
    in place to ensure residual payments over extended usage (royalties, etc) but
    graphic designers and illustrators don\u2019t ?</cite>\r\n\r\nBecause neither
    designers nor their clients want to deal with the headaches involved in tracking
    logo use and calculating royalty payments. Because designers don\u2019t want to
    get a tiny payout up front and only really collect over time. Because there are
    more than enough good designers\u2014not to mention the hacks\u2014willing to
    do a job for next to nothing."
  created: '2008-02-18 22:41:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Suggests a toy telephone dial to me, and AG is very 70s, when dials were
    still used.\r\nSo it's a retro telcom brand. But there weren't telcoms before
    1981, just the GPO.\r\nToo much analysis Nick, just enjoy the pretty colours and
    the bouncy circles.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-18 23:16:11'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: ">>Because neither designers nor their clients want to deal with the headaches
    \r\n>>involved in tracking logo use and calculating royalty payments. \r\n\r\nin
    the case of music the tracking isn't done by the artists and direct (account)
    clients, it's done by a combination of dedicated tracking systems including broadcasters
    (usage) and publishers (payments). \r\n\r\n>>Because designers don\u2019t want
    to get a tiny payout up front \r\n>>and only really collect over time. \r\n\r\nwho
    said anything about a tiny payout up front ? the musicians i've worked with get
    serious fees upfront as well as residuals.\r\n\r\n>>Because there are more than
    enough good designers\u2014not to mention \r\n>>the hacks\u2014willing to do a
    job for next to nothing.\r\n\r\nso true, and yet so wrong..."
  created: '2008-02-19 00:02:25'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "Oh I get it! It symbolizes diversity!\r\n\r\nAnd Torchwood isn't cool. People
    only watch it because there are no new episodes of Dr.Who right now. I hate how
    they have to point out Captain Jack is gay in every single episode. I'm all for
    politically correct programming, but why did they have to make the only two good
    looking male characters in love with each other?!"
  created: '2008-02-19 01:13:54'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I hate how they have to point out Captain Jack is gay in every single
    episode.</cite>\r\n\r\nIsn\u2019t Captain Jack bi? He seems to shag everything
    that moves. Which might be why they set the show in Cardiff\u2026"
  created: '2008-02-19 01:26:38'
- author:
    name: Scalfin
    picture: 114154
  body: I must say, this is better than the old idols, and a little incompetent iconoclastism
    still helped.
  created: '2008-02-19 02:16:28'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: I can't be attracted to him or Yanto when all I can picture is them playing
    sexy Unit games.
  created: '2008-02-19 02:20:45'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: they didn't need a new ugly logo, they just needed to make sure that <a href="http://youtube.com/watch?v=oMLCrzy9TEs&feature=related">this
    video</a> gets seen everywhere. that makes me want to get my a** over to cardiff!
  created: '2008-02-19 02:46:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'I remember when the BBC launched Torchwood, all the guff in the interviews
    with writers and stars was about how it was more adult than Doctor Who, how by
    being broadcast later in the evening it could deal with more mature themes. The
    irony of all this is that there is nothing in Torchwood that begins to approach
    the emotional depth developed in the first two seasons of the new Doctor Who. '
  created: '2008-02-19 02:48:27'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I just realized that this conversation is putting us all in danger. A comparison
    of Doctor Who and Torchwood on a typography forum could very well create a singularity
    of nerdiness that will turn into a black hole and suck the entire solar system
    in.
  created: '2008-02-19 03:34:45'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "For the record I did not say Torchwood was cool. I said that the logo undermines
    BBC's efforts to make Cardiff cool.  \r\n\r\nI personally think Torchwood is silly,
    but the show makes Cardiff appear* infinitely cooler than it really is.\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si \r\n\r\n*Note, I was born in Basingstoke."
  created: '2008-02-19 03:45:21'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "<em>I just realized that this conversation is putting us all in danger. A
    comparison of Doctor Who and Torchwood on a typography forum could very well create
    a singularity of nerdiness that will turn into a black hole and suck the entire
    solar system in.</em>\r\n\r\nToo late! It is as in the novel Ratner's Star: we
    are already inside the black hole, and that is why such things can *appear* perfectly
    normal. The laws of physics as we know them have already broken down.\r\n\r\nThe
    moment we began discussing Cardiff and typography the curvature turned negative."
  created: '2008-02-19 03:58:05'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "EX-TER-MI-NATE!\r\nEX-TER-MI-NATE!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Dalek_cardifF_4195.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-19 04:27:39'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: This is why they should have kept the dragon. Just think about the possibilities
    for CGI Dragon Vs. Dalek commercials!
  created: '2008-02-19 04:52:07'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I found an address for typophiles to forward their complaints... \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/complaints_5181.JPG]"
  created: '2008-02-19 04:55:33'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: "<cite>I hate how they have to point out Captain Jack is gay in every single
    episode.</cite>\r\n\r\nit becomes a little tiring... the show's camper than a
    row of tents. perhaps doctor who will get a male assistant? I totally get sucked
    into watching it. Then again I could watch qvc for hours on end.\r\n\r\ncardiff...
    dodgy nightclubs, slaggy women and aggressive drunks. hold on, that's every provincial
    town in the UK ;-)"
  created: '2008-02-19 09:56:29'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: '**sigh**   ...and i wanted to talk about residuals...'
  created: '2008-02-19 14:15:28'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "I bet 1 billion dollars that some branding agency in the future brings back
    the dragons in an effort to \"respect Cardiff's rich history\".\r\n\r\nOr, if
    they like, they can hire me in 10 years, seeing as how I'm just that prescient
    and drawing dragons is, like, way fun."
  created: '2008-02-19 14:24:19'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">**sigh** ...and i wanted to talk about residuals...\r\n\r\nI think a new
    thread might be your best bet.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-19 14:25:27'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"The colours represent the city's waterfront and parks\"\r\n\r\nummmmm...ok?"
  created: '2008-02-19 14:34:35'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "Catherine Tate is going to be the next companion on Dr.Who actually. \r\n\r\nI
    hope one day it will be Dr.Who and Stephen Fry.\r\n\r\n*sigh*"
  created: '2008-02-19 15:49:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "My six year old thinks the next doctor should be a woman or a black man -
    damn you Obama and Hillary, for putting such ideas into a small girl's head! \r\n\r\nAlso
    I've never been to Cardiff. I assume its kind of like Tacoma.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2008-02-19 16:15:55'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> I hope one day it will be Dr.Who and Stephen Fry.\r\n\r\nMaybe Hugh Laurie
    could play the doctor? That would go well over here \u2013 an American Dr Who,
    on FOX!\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-19 16:19:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "To illustrate Jason's point...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/greece_6226.gif]\r\n\r\nAm
    I right in thinking that the circle of dots is in fact a 'C' and that makes everything
    OK?\r\n\r\nGreat way to make sure no-one ever forgets what your colour palette
    is."
  created: '2008-02-19 16:31:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.visitcardiff.com/\">It</a> moves.\r\n\r\n(A lot of logos
    are getting bad press because they are release in flat static formats.)\r\n\r\nNot
    sure if the movement helps though..."
  created: '2008-02-19 16:35:34'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "random google search for \"dots logo\"\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dotslogo_6471.png]"
  created: '2008-02-19 16:47:21'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "Hugh Laurie as the Doctor... with companion Ice-T!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ice-t-photo-ice-t-6203870_4856.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-19 18:29:27'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>random google search for \u201Cdots logo\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nIn the
    future, every place will be the same place. Every thing will be the same thing
    and it will be always be one-size-fits-all - For all. There will be one logo for
    everything. Apparently it is going to have a circle of dots. \r\n \r\n-=\xAE=-\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-19 22:11:07'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: dots wot u tink !
  created: '2008-02-19 22:14:06'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>\u201CThe colours represent the city\u2019s waterfront and parks\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>ummmmm...ok?</cite>\r\n\r\nIsn't
    drugging the client unethical?"
  created: '2008-02-19 22:56:17'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "uh, no... First I've heard of that rule.\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-02-19 23:27:06'
- author:
    name: sihep
    picture: 112339
  body: As mentionned by Nick Shinn above...[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fisher_6062.jpg]
  created: '2008-02-19 23:58:56'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Someone mustn't have told these guys that dragons could not be more hip with
    the young. They should have put dragons on everything!\r\n\r\nSurely this whole
    thing was the brainchild of someone who is neither hip nor young.\r\n\r\nGreat
    picture sihep! Where were you hiding that phone?"
  created: '2008-02-20 00:11:34'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Isn't Harry Potter Welsh? There's your angle.
  created: '2008-02-20 00:12:03'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "<cite>In the future, every place will be the same place. Every thing will
    be the same thing and it will be always be one-size-fits-all - For all. There
    will be one logo for everything. Apparently it is going to have a circle of dots.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn
    the future, all restaurants will be Taco Bell and you will use three seashells
    for personal hygiene."
  created: '2008-02-20 02:38:26'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tacobell_cardiff_5263.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-02-20 03:19:48'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "yup, just like that!\r\n\r\nDemolition Man: B-grade sci-fi flick or work
    of prophecy?"
  created: '2008-02-20 03:33:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Sii\r\n\r\n>Maybe Hugh Laurie could play the doctor? That would go well over
    here \u2013 an American Dr Who, on FOX!\r\n\r\nHuh? Hugh Laurie is English.\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2008-02-20 10:38:09'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ice-taco_bell_5684.png]\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-02-20 13:20:42'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "Err..Cities don't need logos anyway, they need coats of arms.\r\nStephen
    Fry as The Doctor - classy!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Escudo_de_Cardiff_6335.png]\r\n\r\n____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-02-20 18:37:32'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Cardiff_5978.png]'
  created: '2008-02-20 18:49:38'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "This one is a lot more imaginative and it even has a soundtrack.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.bahamas.com/bahamas/index.aspx\r\n\r\nIt
    also has the appropriate archipelago reference.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-20 20:38:38'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/topleft_logo_4431.jpg]\r\n\r\nYes that
    is indeed a very nice tourism logo. Much more thoughtful looking, at the very
    least, but also pleasant.\r\nIt even makes a nice page background and border.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/shorelogo_footer_5480.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-20 22:49:21'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "The new Tallinn logo has a nice vibe to it.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Tallinn_5355.png]\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-02-20 22:56:13'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: Having just seen an ad for Greek Tourism with their logo proudly displayed
    I think the people of Cardiff should all rebel. Do they really want to be identified
    with plagiarists?
  created: '2008-02-20 23:28:55'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: ">Huh? Hugh Laurie is English.\r\n\r\nHe meant Hugh Laurie playing an American
    Dr.Who."
  created: '2008-02-21 01:40:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026I think the people of Cardiff should all rebel.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    agree. The stuff Warren Ellis would write about a Welsh rebellion might be funny
    enough to put me into the hospital.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/welshmen_4855.jpg]\r\n(With
    apologies to all the wonderful Welshmen out there)\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-21 02:22:57'
- author:
    name: TomN-CA
    picture: 112736
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/crappy_6017.png]\r\n\r\nhaving said that,
    I sort of like the Haciendo logo, and the DOTS one is well, honest."
  created: '2008-02-21 04:20:44'
- author:
    name: wren_fern
    picture: 113724
  body: "Wow. Just wow. What a shame. What dreck. \r\n\r\nThat said. I have known
    my fair share of clients that get all excited by the \"logo-ey-ness\" of things..
    I think, at least as far as logos are concerned, that is the cause of the phenomenon
    where the client ALWAYS chooses your last place option as their favorite. It's
    usually the most generic, logo-ey looking thing on there. Granted, these clients
    are mostly small businesses that either had no logo, or an amateur one and they're
    just dying to look \"professional.\" Seeing their name in a way that they associate
    with other larger companies just gets them going. It takes awhile for that to
    wear off then they usually start wishing they had a really unique brand that makes
    them stand out instead of one that just makes them feel better.\r\n\r\nBut this
    is a city?? A city with rich tradition and a long history. Not a hip startup.
    The mind is boggled.\r\n\r\nKudos to the designers for convincing someone to give
    them $45k for that. As it's been said before, it will only make it harder for
    me to convince someone they should pay for the time required for a really strong,
    unique, smart identity."
  created: '2008-02-21 22:31:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Tom, that's the wrong font :-)
  created: '2008-02-21 22:38:31'
- author:
    name: TomN-CA
    picture: 112736
  body: "It's a low effort image, just like it says. And it probably should be deleted,
    like it says. :)\r\n\r\nActually, hold on.  If you want it you can have it for
    jut $10k. Look what Wales paid for theirs, this is a real deal!\r\n\r\nI'll even
    take off the stickynote for free."
  created: '2008-02-21 23:25:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I've had Avant Garde Demi for 20 years, and it still works like it ever did.
    IIRC, it was one of the Laserwriter fonts.\r\nMaybe ITC Garamond will come back
    into fashion too.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Flppy_6729.png]"
  created: '2008-02-22 09:34:02'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: ITC Garamond will come back into fashion
  created: '2008-02-22 13:33:31'
- author:
    name: Typical
    picture: 112513
  body: Did it ever go out? [ducks]
  created: '2008-02-22 14:15:12'
- author:
    name: TomN-CA
    picture: 112736
  body: "@Nick \"and it still works like it ever did.\"\r\n\r\nCould you imagine if
    digital fonts had an internal counter, and as you used them more and more, they
    started to flatten, bend, and break?  Eventually you'd have to buy them once more
    to get them all sharp and crisp. \r\n\r\nAnd if you forgot to convert it to outlines,
    you couldn't use those fonts at all until the printer sent your file back.\r\n\r\nThat
    could get pretty inconvenient.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\ne: I see this isn't a new concept
    at all and there are distorted fonts that adjust slightly. Still not quite the
    same as a font that actually wears out though. Maybe via a plugin then?\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-22 21:10:47'
date: '2008-02-18 15:05:18'
node_type: forum
title: What a cop out

---
