---
author:
  name: afonseca1974
  picture: 113276
body: "OK, I've read with attention some Mac vs. PC posts here.\r\nDont want to add
  any other discution about it.\r\nMy question is:\r\nWant to buy a PC laptop for
  graphic design/type design/multimedia development.\r\nSo I use photoshop/freehand
  (perhaps upgrad to illustrator...)/flash/premiere/dreamweaver.\r\nWhat do \"Typophile\"
  pros use?\r\nBrand and model...Pros and againt\r\nThanks in advance\r\n\r\nThanks\r\nAnt\xF3nio"
comments:
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Second, a general comment: brand and model are interesting, but key specs
    are at least as important. For example, I have a Lenovo (\"IBM\") ThinkPad T61P.
    But how I got that configured (screen size/resolution, memory, hard drive size)
    is a lot more relevant.\r\n\r\nGenerally, I recommend that you get 2 GB of RAM.
    Regular 32-bit Windows can't address more than 3 GB, and any less than 2 GB is
    a false economy for performance. If your budget is tight, you're better off getting
    a slower processor but still getting 2 GB of RAM. For whatever model you pick,
    you probably want the biggest hard drive you can reasonably afford before the
    prices start escalating crazily.\r\n\r\nRelated to screen size, a host of related
    questions: Will you be using an external monitor for most of your serious work,
    or will you be relying on the built-in LCD screen of the laptop most of the time?
    Do you have good eyesight and a high tolerance for small stuff on screen? How
    much What format of outlines are you likely to mainly be working on? (Which is
    implicitly looking for \"what em square size are you likely to be working with
    in your type design work?\")\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-02-19 00:29:06'
- author:
    name: Hofweber
    picture: 114098
  body: If I understand it right you want to know what we use regardless of whether
    it's PC or Mac. I use a Macbook Pro 15.4" base model. 15.4 inches is getting on
    the big side and isn't quite as portable as I would like it to be. Whatever computer
    you get though, consider it an investment.
  created: '2008-02-19 00:51:01'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I find that the build quality of lesser known, and cheaper, brands is only
    so-so. People are still lugging around their old Powerbooks because they are built
    more tank-like, so I suggest that in addition to the specs, you also look for
    decent build quality.\r\n\r\nCompared to other graphics applications, font production
    is fairly low in resource consumption. But Thomas' recommendations above still
    apply if you value your time and your sanity :)\r\n\r\nAlso, Freehand is dead."
  created: '2008-02-19 00:51:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Over the years, I've used Sony laptops (definitely <em>not</em> recommended),
    Toshiba laptops (pretty good, but I had repetetive trouble with hard drives),
    and a Panasonic 'Toughbook' (a nice lightweight travel machine, but a bit slow).
    But by far the best computers I have bought have been from Dell. I have one large
    Dell Inspiron 9100 laptop that I've used as my main machine for the past three
    and a half years, and recently bought the small Dell XPS 1330 to use as a travel
    machine. I particularly like the customisability of Dell computers: I maximised
    the RAM and got the fastest CPU option for the XPS 1330, and it is blisteringly
    fast compared to my older Dell.\r\n\r\nThomas, as I understand it, 32-bit Windows
    only provides applications with a 3GB flat virtual address space, but kernel components
    will address a separate gigabyte. So 4GB is the actual limit (which is what I
    got in my XPS, and I hope I didn't waste money on an unused gigabyte of RAM!).
    But in order to provide access to the full 3GB, either the computer manufacturer
    or administrator needs to set the /3GB flag in the boot.ini (in pre-Vista versions
    of Windows)\r\n\r\nhttp://msdn2.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms791558.aspx\r\n\r\nor
    the IncreaseUserVA in BCDEdit (Windows Vista)\r\n\r\nhttp://msdn2.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa906211.aspx\r\n\r\nIf
    you are buying a computer with more than 3GB of RAM, you may reasonably expect
    the manufacturer to set this, but you can ask them to confirm this.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-19 00:55:28'
- author:
    name: agostini
    picture: 111280
  body: "I'm working on a Mac intel box, 2x 2.66GHZ Dual core intel\r\nwith only one
    gig ram and a cinema screen. But in the end it \r\ndoesnt really matter, like
    in life: size doesn't matter so much\r\nit's is more what you can do with it.
    \r\n\r\nThe only thing i wouldn't get is freehand, dead software and \r\nPrepress-wise
    a pain in the butt, i would say it is better to \r\ninvest in illustrator. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-19 01:21:33'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "With any laptop, my experience is it that the extended warranty is a good
    investment. Dell has been good for me, but I heard they moved tech support to
    India, and my friend says sometimes they are hard to understand. Fortunately at
    my company, if your Dell laptop acts up, our contract is set so someone will come
    fix it in a day. \r\n\r\nIf for some reason you decide to get a Mac that can boot
    WIndows, everyone I know says the Applecare is a good investment."
  created: '2008-02-19 01:50:54'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: 'I second Thomas'' opinion on 2gb RAM. That was my #1 requirement in buying
    the last machine I bought.'
  created: '2008-02-19 02:56:46'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Thanks all for the opinions!\r\n\r\n1-I will change to illustrator. I already
    made that decision couple of months a go...but I will miss the multipage thing-
    Illustrator dont have it rigth? Why Adobe dont \"steal\" that from freehand? Its
    hard to implement or they think people dont care for that?\r\n\r\n2- I will buy
    a PC. Not mac. \r\n\r\n3- I know that the screen size/resolution, memory, hard
    drive size ar important factors that I will not forgett\r\n\r\n4-Thomas Phinney:
    I Will not be using an external monitor for most of my work. So I will rely on
    the built-in LCD screen of the laptop. I have good eyesight and a high tolerance
    for small stuff on screen.\r\n\r\n5-So what good laptop models are there with
    my specifications?\r\n\r\nThanks again.\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio Fonseca\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-19 13:57:41'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I've owned/used the following brands:\r\n\r\nApple: 1 great laptop. 1 decent
    one that crapped out after 2 years.\r\nDell: 1 that crapped out more than once\r\nToshiba:
    Crapped out after about two years.\r\nSony: Has never 'fully' crapped out, but
    has been on disability since day one with clicking hard drives, dead WiFi and
    batteries that die every 6 months.\r\n\r\nSo, uh...hmm...I don't think it matters.
    I'd suggest going cheap and just plan on upgrading every couple of years.\r\n\r\nAll
    that said, everyone seems to love their Lenovos (what used to be IBM laptops)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-19 14:44:28'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Also, FYI, I assume you wanting a PC = you want to run windows. The MacBook
    Pro was rated as one of the fastest (if not fastest) laptop for running Vista.
    So, if performance is a priority, you might want to add that to your list. Alas,
    I appears you live outside the US, and, as such, I know Apple hardware can be
    significantly more expensive.
  created: '2008-02-19 15:28:04'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "  Machine Name:\tPower Mac G5\r\n  Machine Model:\tPowerMac7,2\r\n  CPU Type:\tPowerPC
    970  (2.2)\r\n  Number Of CPUs:\t2\r\n  CPU Speed:\t2 GHz\r\n  L2 Cache (per CPU):\t512
    KB\r\n  Memory:\t2.5 GB\r\n  Bus Speed:\t1 GHz\r\n\r\nStarting to show weakness.
    I had a Mac Clone before, and a Mac IIci before that."
  created: '2008-02-19 16:22:13'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> ...but I will miss the multipage thing- Illustrator dont have it rigth?
    Why Adobe dont \u201Csteal\u201D that from freehand? Its hard to implement or
    they think people dont care for that?\r\n\r\nMacromedia made Freehand multipage
    because they didn't have a pagination option. Adobe does with InDesign. AI is
    primarily for vector illustrations, and I don't see it becoming multi page (although
    perhaps a two or four page option would be nice to be able to keep front and back,
    or packaging options in a single file."
  created: '2008-02-19 16:50:00'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Why Adobe dont \u201Csteal\u201D that from freehand? Its hard to implement
    or they think people dont care for that?\"\r\n\r\nThey want you to buy InDesign.
    ;o)\r\n\r\nFreehand was a really great multi-purpose tool. Had it gotten the care
    and attention it needed several versions back, it might have been an excellent
    page layout application in addition to a fine illustration tool.\r\n\r\nI do miss
    Freehand.\r\n\r\nAlas, it's dead. In fact, it's been on life support for quite
    a while, even when it was still in Macromedia's hands."
  created: '2008-02-19 17:32:39'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "I use freehand for more than 13 years. It was Aldus at the time...I think\r\nI
    always draw my company labels and boxes in freehand. It was great to have a file
    with mutiple pages. One for original other converted to paths to production, other
    in cmyk for other prints, and special the file with another blueprint page with
    regular information printed to be send in Fax or to print a copy to be sign, etc.\r\nThe
    fact that I could develop a logo in a page then duplicate in the same file several
    \"directions\" and print them all as independent page with the need to open extra
    files (and the time consuming...) are things that were with me.\r\nOf course today
    I can di that with Indesign...but 12 years ago I could do it with freehand...and
    still do:-)\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio"
  created: '2008-02-19 17:43:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>So what good laptop models are there with my specifications?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    recommend going to the Dell website, selecting a base model of the size you want,
    and then going through the customisation options to get the specs you want. If
    screen resolution is important to you, keep an eye out for the 1920x1200 screen
    options."
  created: '2008-02-19 17:47:18'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Antonio,\r\n\r\nThough it isn't the same thing, you might like the \"layers\"
    function in Illustrator; each layer can be turned off, locked, set to print or
    not print, act as template, or whatever; then you can discard certain layers and
    save the file as a different version. I think \"export visible layers\" would
    make things easy. That might do some of what Freehand did for you. Layers are
    absolutely essential to working with map data. \r\n"
  created: '2008-02-19 18:24:06'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: "I switched to PC a few years ago (because I am a reactionary, OK?), so I
    say this not as an apple fangirl: don't go Dell for a laptop!!!  Everyone I know
    with a Dell laptop has had it fall apart in a couple of years, and it's better
    to remove your eyes with a spoon than talk with their tech support.  Also, it
    takes an awful lot to get rid of all the bloatware that comes with their computers.
    \ Spend the extra money on something with good hardware and tech support (HP?
    IBM? I dunno).  \r\n\r\nRight now I work exclusively on a silent PC desktop built
    by my boyfriend - it works like a charm, was under $1000 (including the 22\" monitor),
    and had no bloatware.  Unfortunately, that helps not at all for laptops.   \r\n\r\nGood
    luck!"
  created: '2008-02-19 21:30:48'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "hmm...\r\nAs darrel stated I dont live in US. I'm Portuguese. So here apple
    computers are very expensive not only to buy but also in support...\r\nFor example:\r\nMacBook
    Pro 2.4GHz Intel Core 2 Duo 15 inch costs in US $2,499.00. In Portugal costs 3,532.89
    !!!!!!!!! With this money I could fly to New york buy the computer and come back
    and probably still save some money :-)\r\n\r\nBeth (against) and other (in favor)
    spoke for Dell. Dell computers are hard to find here also.\r\n\r\nThe easy and
    economic are HP, Sony, Acer, Asus, Fujitsu Siemens and Toshiba.\r\n\r\nJohn Hudson
    \r\nI have to check wich models have 1920x1200 screen option.\r\n\r\nAny further
    comments?\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-19 23:51:32'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Maybe it's true: the best PC you can get for running Windows is\u2026 a Mac.\r\n\r\nMy
    current laptop is a Titanium Powerbook 667 and it runs very well with nary a squeak
    of a problem. And I know that I am not the only one who hangs on to their Powerbooks.
    I have never heard of a PC laptop that will be reliable and in use some seven
    years down the track. I fully expect mine will last for another two years, bringing
    it to nine years old."
  created: '2008-02-19 23:59:02'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Ant\xF3nio \u2014 we posted simultaneously. Apple is expensive in Australia
    as well, but in the long run they are worth it."
  created: '2008-02-20 00:01:38'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: How about a trip to Costco in England? Here in the US they usually have good
    deals, and back it up nicely.
  created: '2008-02-20 00:11:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">So here apple computers are very expensive not only to buy but also in support...\r\n\r\nYou
    did ask \"what do the pros use?\" One of the reasons the pros have Macs is because
    it helps them hike their rates. Put yourself in the shoes of a client - two designers
    are pitching for a job - one's charging $90 an hour and toting a four year old
    HP notebook, the other's charging $120 an hour and has a spanking new Mac Book
    Air - which would you pick? "
  created: '2008-02-20 03:23:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Everyone I know with a Dell laptop has had it fall apart in a couple
    of years, and it\u2019s better to remove your eyes with a spoon than talk with
    their tech support.</em>\r\n\r\nI've heard such things. But I've been using my
    big Dell for three and a half years without any problems, and the couple of times
    I needed to call tech support the service was excellent. Now, I did pay extra
    for a business support account, and I did choose a high-end model with the best
    component options. Perhaps this makes a difference."
  created: '2008-02-20 04:53:33'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "You mentioned ASUS. They're actually quite good because they supply the parts
    to a lot of the \"branded\" laptops. Quality hardware.\r\n\r\nIn fact, if you
    do a little digging, a lot of the big time laptops are really re-branded something
    or another.\r\n\r\nFor instance, Alienware machines are in reality just a few
    doodads and whatsits and glowing-eyed alien cases added onto other company's hardware.
    Start comparing specs and Googling/newegg-ing/researching, and eventually you
    can find the source of the base computer.\r\n\r\nIf you can find it, many times
    you can save money due to the \"brand\" discount. Of course, you're taking a humongous
    risk because tech support will be non-existent or Japanese :)"
  created: '2008-02-20 08:39:41'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: "\"one\u2019s charging $90 an hour and toting a four year old HP notebook,
    the other\u2019s charging $120 an hour and has a spanking new Mac Book Air - which
    would you pick?\"\r\n\r\nSii, if I liked them equally, I'd pick the one without
    the Apple premium.  \r\n\r\nIf I could afford a new, awesome, Mac, I'd get one
    - but it would be in <em>spite</em> of it being a status symbol.  My focus is
    on usability and communication - if a client wants me to have a trendy haircut,
    designer jeans, and a MacBook, it's just not gonna work out.  This may also be
    why I can't afford a brand new Mac.  ;)"
  created: '2008-02-20 21:24:29'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Simon\r\nI wouldn't choose a designer from is computer. I prefer his work
    ;-)\r\n\r\nFound this here in Portugal. Anyone has experiences with this brand?\r\n\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pc1_3693.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-21 02:22:38'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I was not aware Packard Bell was still in business. I have heard their hardware
    has a bad reputation, but that is not based on personal experience. They used
    to have a cute logo with a head, but it appears that they don't use it anymore.
  created: '2008-02-21 05:16:03'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: I was going to say the same thing about Packard Bell. I thought they were
    bought out by HP or Compaq or whatever.
  created: '2008-02-21 05:28:40'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: BTW, my boyfriend recommends Toshiba of the brands you listed.  He's built
    several PCs, and is up on all that jazz.  Good luck!
  created: '2008-02-21 06:57:40'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Wow...Packard Bell? Back from the dead? When they were alive they were awful.
    Now that they are a zombie, I can't imagine they've improved at all.
  created: '2008-02-21 15:10:06'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "I sold Packard Bell computers for a time when they were still available in
    Canada. They had a horrid return rate. Also a disaster for service.\r\n\r\nThat
    doesn't mean that they haven't cleaned up their act in the last 15 years."
  created: '2008-02-21 16:03:18'
- author:
    name: David Sudweeks
    picture: 112594
  body: I'm very happy with my PC notebook. It's an HP nc4010. I bought it used on
    eBay. These are the commercial line of notebook; think of it as a wholly different
    company from HP's consumer line notebooks. I've had it for nearly four years.
    Support is handled over the internet and mine came with a three-year warranty,
    standard. If you're looking for current models of these, just shop around. I believe
    the nc line is still going. If so, those are built the best.
  created: '2008-02-21 18:41:48'
- author:
    name: Freeza
    picture: 114205
  body: "Seems like i'm the only Asus user :) I have a Asus G1s Laptop.\r\n\r\n-\r\n\r\nwww.nunocoelho.com"
  created: '2008-02-21 20:09:37'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Ant\xF3nio:\r\n\r\nSo, based on your reply about screens and monitors, the
    other key thing I'd say is that you have the same screen need I do: at least 1200
    vertical pixels of resolution to be able to do type design work efficiently right
    on your laptop. You can get a standard-ratio screen at 1600 x 1200, or a wide-screen
    at 1920 x 1200. But this factor alone will likely significantly narrow your choices
    - which is probably helpful.\r\n\r\nJohn Hudson and others are correct about RAM
    on PCs. I'm not saying that more than 2 GB is completely wasted, just that the
    biggest functional jump and bang for the buck is going from 1 GB to 2 GB. If you
    make heavy use of Premiere, maybe even 4 GB would be useful.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-02-22 02:49:46'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: They make plenty of Dells and stuff now with the same quad-core processors
    that the Mac Pros use (although they use two), but in agreement with the second
    post, worry about the ram as well. 2gigs is fantastic. Maybe more if you're doing
    motion (also, a better graphics card would help). I know you don't want a mac,
    but my suggestions would be to look at the specs on the new mac pro, and find
    a PC with the same. It'd probably be about a grand less just to get rid of the
    apple logo.
  created: '2008-02-22 20:47:02'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "I currently use a IBM/Lenovo Thinkpad R60 with 2ghz Core2 Duo, 2GB RAM, 7200rpm
    hard drive, 1400\xD71050px screen (a compromise between space and size), Windows
    XP. When working local, it's placed in a docking station, connected to a normal
    keyboard, mouse, large screen, scanner, external hard drive, etc.\r\nI use it
    70% local, and 30% mobile. If you are more mobile, you might want a T-series model,
    but the other series are quite ok as well. \r\n\r\nThinkpads are expensive, but
    much more affordable today, and they are robust, don't look like pseudo wannabe
    \"design\", but are streamlined for real usability."
  created: '2008-02-22 22:23:09'
date: '2008-02-18 23:51:47'
node_type: forum
title: Not a Mac vs. PC question

---
