---
author:
  name: Bald Condensed
  picture: 110564
body: "Hi everyone,\r\n\r\nI'm preparing a talk on typeface selection which includes
  a section about cultural significance of type. There is a missing link though. I
  know that the use of blackletter on rap album covers stems from the gang tattoos,
  but how/why did blackletter become the preferred type style for those tattoos?"
comments:
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "I'll bet it ties into the use of blackletter in Mexico, and then transferring
    to barrios. Then spreading in prisons as the gang members did time (sometimes
    on purpose I'm told, because it was a badge of honor to do time)\r\n\r\nAnd the
    blackletter in Mexico came from German immigrants that also brought Polkas, accordians,
    oom-pah bands, and the making a decent beer with them.\r\n; )\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-20 01:03:31'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Interesting theory. Can anybody back this up?
  created: '2008-02-20 01:11:53'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "You have probably read these but if not:\r\n\r\nwww.typophile.com/node/17496\r\nwww.typophile.com/node/28919\r\nwww.typophile.com/node/9921\r\n\r\nI
    have never heard it suggested but I think that it's a string ( or web ) of mental
    associations with blackletter where each new association being only vaguely aware
    of being influenced by the previous one.\r\n\r\nI am pretty sure that nobody has
    gone beyond speculation with each jump.\r\n\r\nFor Rap & LA culture I think you
    have a convergence of Heavy Metal music's use of it to signal \"Tough/Hard\" with
    a Mexican use which is Neighborhood/Street oriented. Heavy Metal comes to it from
    it's interest in gothic and medieval and Tolkein/fantasy imagery.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-20 01:41:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Yves, originally [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hip_hop_culture|hip-hop and
    early rap]], which originated in the Bronx, New York City, was not associated
    with gangs. It had three elements: graffiti, break dancing, and rap music \r\n\r\nThere
    seems to be a definitive documentary on early hip-hop graffiti, called [[http://www.stylewars.com/|Style
    Wars]]. That should tell you what you want to know. You can order it through the
    link. My memory is the styles of this early graphitti were not black letter, but
    I may well be wrong. \r\n\r\nThe 'gangster rap', which I believe started in LA,
    is a later development. It is important not to confuse hip hop with ganster rap,
    because the spirit is so different.  \r\n\r\nOn gangster rap, there may well be
    an influence of hispanic gangs, but I suspect that also\r\nGerald Huerta's AC/DC
    logo was an influence. He writes about it on [[http://www.typophile.com/node/20336|this
    Typophile thread.]] That spawned a whole style for heavy metal, which I think
    predates the gangster rap albums and may have influenced them. \r\n\r\nI short,
    I don't know the answer to your question, but these links might help put you on
    the right track. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-20 01:43:13'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: If there is a connection to Mexican culture, the origin would look to be Catholic.
  created: '2008-02-20 01:50:46'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>If there is a connection to Mexican culture, the origin would look
    to be Catholic.</cite>\r\n\r\nAfter the conquer of Mesoamerica the first printing
    presses set up in Mexico used blackletter type and blackletter has been a big
    part of the culture ever since. \r\n\r\nThe book <em>Mexican Blackletter</em>
    has a little information on this digging into various histories of alphabets and
    letting will turn up much more. The question of whether American gangs picked
    it up on their own or appropriated it from Mexican gangs doesn\u2019t seem to
    be answered yet."
  created: '2008-02-20 02:28:12'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Well they certainly appropriated the saints and made that aspect their own
    on many levels. I suspect the typography was part and parcel.\r\n\r\nYou can bet
    the prison system was the petri dish."
  created: '2008-02-20 02:40:41'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "100 pesos says this guy knows the back story... http://www.vanishingtattoo.com/lars_krutak.htm
    \r\n\r\nMy guess is that during the period when gang tats became popular amongst
    African American gang members the resident tattoo artists in Southern Cal were
    Hispanic or had been primarily serving the Hispanic community \u2013 where blackletter
    was the predominant letterform.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-20 03:02:23'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Well they certainly appropriated the saints and made that aspect their
    own on many levels.</cite>\r\n\r\nOr they just picked it up in school. Mexican
    ghettos aren\u2019t the only ones with Catholic schools\u2014almost a quarter
    of Americans grow up with those saints.\r\n\r\nIf anyone is bold enough to engage
    the body mod/tattoo community, it probably wouldn\u2019t be too hard to find people
    in California, Texas, or Florida who could chart the history. I wouldn\u2019t
    be surprised if various state and Federal police and prison wardens know all this,
    and have decades of photos to back it all up."
  created: '2008-02-20 04:14:41'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: I have a friend that was in a hispanic gang in Hawthorne in the 60s, and he
    has a sort of home-made newsprint publication put out by someone that showed RIP
    drawings  for their dead friends done in blackletter.
  created: '2008-02-20 04:21:25'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Think oom-pah.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-02-20 04:31:55'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: One interesting thing about Mexican Oom-pah bands (called 'banda' or 'tambora'
    at some point-popular in north Mexico) is that they often seem to never have heard
    of dynamics, with everyone blowing for all they are worth, often to the point
    of being unable to control intonation. It takes some getting used to.
  created: '2008-02-20 05:09:55'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Might it also have to do with that blackletters don't have as many curves
    as roman letterforms? Eventhough blackletter forms can be quite complex, I can
    imagine that the shapes they are made out of are easier to tatoo than lets say
    a regular typeface.
  created: '2008-02-20 12:46:36'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>One interesting thing about Mexican Oom-pah bands is that they often
    seem to never have heard of dynamics</em>\r\n\r\nThere's an old (german?) joke
    about guitarist asking the drummer to use more dynamics, who responds \"What do
    you mean, 'dynamics'? I can't play any louder!\"\r\n\r\n<em>Might it also have
    to do with that blackletters don\u2019t have as many curves as roman letterforms?</em>\r\n\r\nTrue
    for the lowercase, but not so much for the uppercase blackletter forms, which
    are often used exclusively in tattoos.\r\n\r\nJens"
  created: '2008-02-20 13:45:23'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "the exact \"how\" may be vague, but the \"why\" seems obvious: for nazis
    and gangs the style connotes an ancient or deeply rooted authority, much as medieval
    typography itself must have seemed to the common illiterate. the presumed status
    of a coded complexity just outside our reach.\r\n\r\nthe meeting of catholic and
    nazi typographic associations provides an irresistible style for co-opting by
    the underground (disenfranchised) power system."
  created: '2008-02-20 14:48:11'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "^ Both religion and gangs are highly invested in initiation rights, which
    usually deal symbolically with death it seems.\r\n\r\nI'm a little skeptical about
    the German connection simply because (and I'm no historian) the Spanish were in
    Central America well before the Germans settled in Texas. Also, if you skip over
    the border into NM you find nothing but hatred for the German influenced  Tejano
    music, yet the black letter, appropriated saints, and candle shop culture cut
    across state borders."
  created: '2008-02-20 15:04:16'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Golden thread everyone, thanks so much.\r\n\r\n> <em>Yves, originally hip-hop
    and early rap, which originated in the Bronx, New York City, was not associated
    with gangs. It had three elements: graffiti, break dancing, and rap music.</em>\r\n\r\nYeah,
    I knew that -- I was a breakdancer in my days. ;^) Thanks for the documentary
    and the tips.\r\n\r\nMy point in the presentation is that mainstream hip hop and
    R&B music picked up blackletter use via the gangsta rap sub-culture. So although
    they've got little to do with actual gangsta rap, both music genres use its specific
    typography."
  created: '2008-02-20 15:04:28'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: NWA used Mistral. What are your sources for the earliest use? Looking around
    I don't see much blackletter in the early work.
  created: '2008-02-20 15:10:42'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: No, it's a pretty recent trend.
  created: '2008-02-20 15:52:29'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "If you're looking into blackletter as tattoo art you're probably going to
    want to dig into the tattoo development side quite a lot as well. I suspect style
    and development of tattoo genres/phases influenced the lettering artists use.
    For instance, tattooing around the time of WWII lettering was a more open style,
    these days a lot of lettering is script or blackletter. A good example of the
    latter, and someone who might be able to provide insight are tattooists like [[http://www.mistercartoon.com/|Mr
    Cartoon]] and [[http://www.maxx242.com/|Maxx242]].\r\n\r\nI'd also suggest contacting
    the editor of International Tattoo Art, and going to BMEzine. You might get some
    more answers there as well."
  created: '2008-02-20 15:56:06'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "jupiterboy may have a point questioning the german influence but i suspect
    it's there, indirectly, thru the heavy metal connection.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/blackletterbands_5184.png]"
  created: '2008-02-20 15:59:05'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "i recommend you contact mike mccabe, historian of tattooing well known in
    the tattoo community.\r\n\r\nhe's hard to find, but here's a few links:\r\n\r\nhttp://tattoos.com/articles/mccabe/index.html\r\n\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Tattooing-York-City-Style-Continui/dp/0764313886\r\n\r\nhttp://www.vam.ac.uk/vastatic/microsites/tattoo/search/Blue/talks.htm\r\n\r\nhttp://books.google.com/books?id=9kjG_vxVMaUC&pg=PA351&lpg=PA351&dq=mike+mccabe+tattoo&source=web&ots=wnWKLw_-kl&sig=pDNyawWI6Mu8-LFszjIrNurhW5w\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-20 16:05:30'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "And possibly the root\u2014Hawkwind\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Warrior_on_the_Edge_5334.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-20 16:08:47'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Oh, of course somebody had to come up with nazi comparisons in a thread about
    Mexico and blackletter, with Hitler being alive and well in South America and
    all ... ;)\r\n\r\nCh: <em>the \u201Cwhy\u201D seems obvious: for nazis and gangs
    the style connotes an ancient or deeply rooted authority, much as medieval typography
    itself must have seemed to the common illiterate.</em>\r\n\r\n\"medieval\" is
    a very broad term, wasn't it Martin Luther who printed the Bible in blackletter
    and thus the people's typeface, opposed to the a bit more authoritarian catholics
    using Latin set in Antiqua?\r\n\r\nAnd for the nazis, I don't think they used
    blackletter (before they banned it, but let's not go through all that again) because
    it spoke of authority but more due to its \"v\xF6lkisch\" rustical character -
    if they had to have any reason at all to use it, other than it being the most
    widely used typeface style in Germany at the time. \r\n\r\nJens"
  created: '2008-02-20 16:11:42'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Thanks for that last bit, Jens, I can use that. :^)
  created: '2008-02-20 16:20:44'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Godwin's_law
  created: '2008-02-20 16:21:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'If it''s recent, then my bet would be that it all traces back to Gerald Heurta''s
    AC/DC logo; that''s an iconic work that has just has stuck in everyone''s head,
    and influenced legions of logos that emulated the look. So this might be the case
    of a consummate pro influencing the streets, rather than the other way around. '
  created: '2008-02-20 16:23:07'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: my point was the perceived authoritarian nature of the script among its appropriators
    thru association (correct or not), not the actuality of historical authoritarian
    usage.
  created: '2008-02-20 16:25:30'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "http://www.graphics.com/modules.php?name=Sections&op=viewarticle&artid=476\r\n\r\nSpanish
    Invade\u20141500s\r\n\r\nGermans Settlers\u20141830s\r\n\r\nHawkwind\u20141970\r\n\r\nACDC
    (Let there be Rock)\u20141975\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-20 16:28:15'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Yes, there is attribute such as \"authority\" essential to blackletter. All
    of that is imposed. It doesn't mean that these associations are not culturally
    active for a particular use. Just that they shift. That's the funny thing about
    blackletter. It pops up intermittently. And that allows it's meaning to be reinvented.\r\n\r\nThat
    Hawkwind image is super-fab! It looks a bit like an album cover for the band Yes
    although I bet it pre-dates those. How old is it?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-20 16:28:21'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "excellent link, jupiterboy. i concede the german influence is indirect at
    best, possibly thru heavy metal logos.\r\n\r\nperhaps it functioned as a sort
    of catalyst toward defiant identity mongering, or not at all. the hispanic catholic
    tradition seems to be the obvious thread.\r\n\r\n@baldcondensed: will you share
    your talk with us ?"
  created: '2008-02-20 16:36:52'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: 'There''s also a photographer, whose name i can''t recall right now, but he
    documents gangs, he might know a bit of the history. His stuff is largely b/w,
    and had a lot of neo-nazi, gang and cuban boxing imagery. '
  created: '2008-02-20 16:37:06'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I had been thinking that the hawkwind was 1920's. Except for the landscape...
    I bet a romantic cartoon from the 1920 could have had blackletter title.\r\n\r\nWhat
    about Mot\xF6rhead?\r\n\r\nDoes it's use of blackletter pre-date Hawkwind's?\r\n\r\nhttp://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/6/64/Motorhead.jpg/150px-Motorhead.jpg\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-20 16:37:24'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I think Mot\xF6rhead's use predates ACDC's BTW."
  created: '2008-02-20 16:38:28'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "All depends I guess. The Germans kids in the '60s really took to VU rather
    than Blues music. From that hot bed of rebellion against the recent past contemporary
    electronic, punk, and I would suggest metal were born. Most of it would be classified
    as prog. I could make a pretty good case that Amon D\xFC\xFCl II, with the release
    of Yeti, was the proto metal band. Can the proto electronic. Hawkwind follows
    closely in that metal/prog. tradition. A good survey of this rediscovered music
    is Julian Cope's Krautrock Sampler.\r\n\r\nBack to Mexican Blackletter, I bet
    the real thread is in Santer\xEDa and the syncretic appropriation of Catholicism."
  created: '2008-02-20 16:48:08'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Back to Mexican Blackletter, I bet the real thread is in Santer\xEDa
    and the syncretic appropriation of Catholicism. </cite>\r\n\r\nI don't think so
    so much. What has been impressed on me by a variety of sources is that Mexican
    blackletter is the opposite of special/underground/secret/dark -  it's mainstream.
    And has been for a long time. Hence ice cream signs in Blackletter.\r\n\r\nAs
    for Metal beginning with Amon Duul - certainly the timing is valid. But Deep Purple
    Led Zepplin and Black Sabbath all come in right about there too 1967,8 9.\r\n\r\nI
    am not seeing Amon D\xFC\xFCl or anybody else in blackletter though. I may be
    wrong, but the earliest use I have found so far is Motorhead."
  created: '2008-02-20 18:43:55'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "from a fascinating article in wikipedia:\r\n\r\nIn 1968, the sound that would
    become known as heavy metal began to coalesce. That January, the San Francisco
    band Blue Cheer released a cover of Eddie Cochran's classic \"Summertime Blues,\"
    from their debut album Vincebus Eruptum, that many consider the first true heavy
    metal recording.\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heavy_metal_music#History\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-20 18:53:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">earliest use I have found so far is Motorhead.\r\n\r\nIn the thread linked
    above Gerald Huerta says he used blackletter on an album cover for Blue Oyster
    Cult which appeared in early 1975, when Motorhead was just being formed. That
    experience--where he appears on the back cover!--inspired him to return to that
    style for the AC/DC album, he says. "
  created: '2008-02-20 19:13:39'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "Fascinating thread!\r\n\r\nI think the choice of blackletter as the preferred
    type style for tattoos and tattoo artist has very little to do with antiquity,
    reglion, culture, tradition or otherwise. I think deep down what appeals to the
    nature of those that chose blackletter for a tattoo are the strong and weak elements
    of the letter form itself. They graphically impart to the user a strong sense
    of community. Plus, elements of the letter offer to the tattoo artist and user
    alike, the opportunity to re-state the letter form as an indiviual statement.
    \r\n\r\nTest case - present two type choices to a hundred people in the 15-25
    age group (group dynamic male and female). One choice sans serif, and the other
    choice blackletter. And ask each person why they chose one over the other. It
    would be cool if you could do this study in some major cities on a global scale.
    \r\n\r\nMy bet is that across all cultures, forget about just the gangs, my bet
    is that blackletter will be chosen over sans serif because of its letter form
    elements and how those elements relate to each other within each letter shape.\r\n\r\nDescriptive
    words that superceed stuff like tradition, religion, and culture - are words like
    'elegant' and 'style'. Those words appeal to us all equally - regardless of religion,
    culture, tradition etc., etc... And that imho is what reaches us from the blackletter.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-20 19:22:52'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>I don\u2019t think so so much. What has been impressed on me by a variety
    of sources is that Mexican blackletter is the opposite of special/underground/secret/dark
    - it\u2019s mainstream. And has been for a long time. Hence ice cream signs in
    Blackletter.</cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe I was not very clear, but I think we are saying
    the same thing\u2014that the Spanish Catholics brought in a new culture and that
    new culture combined with the existing traditions. Special and mainstream are
    not opposed in my mind, and Santer\xEDa is a folk expression of the power of the
    introduction of western religion combined with healer/shaman traditions that existed
    before the Spanish. In my neighborhood people go to church but also the candle
    shop. I don't see much dark or underground about this at all. I see these non-sanctioned
    religious expressions on almost every porch on my street. It is just another manifestation
    of some cosmic wish fulfillment.\r\n\r\nBlue Cheer is the official line ala Rolling
    Stone, but to my ear they are heavy, but also blues influenced\u2014I don't completely
    buy it. Motorhead formed in 1975? That Hawkwind record in from 1970.\r\n\r\nAmon
    D\xFC\xFCl II had that heavy, plodding, sludgy gate\u2014along with an experimentalism
    and anger, and a hot female singer, and\u2026\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_pcla5zyZfA\r\n\r\nOdd
    video assemblage but the music is there."
  created: '2008-02-20 19:50:21'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "@hiroshige : i don't see how one can possibly divorce formal aspects from
    popular associations. as an academic exercise perhaps, but not in the real world.\r\n\r\n@jupiterboy
    : i don't think it's about blue cheer as much as it's about '68 - '69 \r\nas the
    beginning of the sound. i can't wait to seriously research this. i must know.\r\n\r\nand
    i think the blues influence is vital (led zep) - in fact it distinguishes the
    metal direction from prog."
  created: '2008-02-20 20:05:50'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "You're right. Those blues redo songs of Zep were never my favorite\u2014my
    bias shows through."
  created: '2008-02-20 20:14:59'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: 'and just out of curiousity: how many typophiles have tattoos ?'
  created: '2008-02-20 20:16:45'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: We had a thread about <a href="http://www.typophile.com/node/1156">Typophile
    tattoos</a> before. There are a couple of links in there, but very few images.
  created: '2008-02-20 20:24:42'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Chris, Godwin's Law doesn't really apply here because the mention in this
    thread is relevant and legitimate, and is not used to inflame. Furthermore --
    I left out that part because I already have that information -- I'm indeed talking
    about the shift in cultural perception in my presentation, starting off with the
    Nazi/right wing connotation of blackletter.
  created: '2008-02-20 20:31:28'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "right about godwin's law - i just get a chuckle out of it.  \r\n\r\nbut i
    repeat my question: would you be willing to share your talk with typophile ? it's
    been a scintillating read so far !"
  created: '2008-02-20 20:52:08'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: '<a href="http://www.amazon.com/Written-Body-Jane-Caplan/dp/0691057230/ref=cm_lmf_tit_18_rdssss0">Written
    on the Body: The Tattoo in European And American History</a>'
  created: '2008-02-20 20:54:05'
- author:
    name: brokenletters
    picture: 111521
  body: "I agree somewhat with what Hiroshige is saying. The reason that blackletter
    was chosen originally was for its beauty and decorative forms. \r\n\r\nI'm pretty
    sure there are other threads about this, but Nazi's had there own blackletter
    that was a mix of fractur and sans-serif.\r\n\r\nNobody is mentioning the fact
    that there are Aryan gangs in prison, and perhaps blackletter was introduced into
    the prison-system and therefore underground culture that way. \r\n\r\nIn my mind
    blackletter has come to represent many counter-cultures because it has a lot of
    power built in to its forms. It is always fun to use something that the mainstream
    culture has used for \"good\" and subvert it for your own use.   "
  created: '2008-02-20 20:58:56'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Written on the Body.... \r\n\r\nBy   <a href=\"http://www.history.ox.ac.uk/staff/postholder/caplan_j.htm\">Professor
    Jane Caplan </a>   \u2014 University of Oxford \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-20 21:06:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "James, I see now. Quite right. What I am not sure about is the Hawkwind sound.
    I mean - that looks glam to me aesthetically speaking. I need to fallow that up.
    The other thing is for all I know there is some pop record in the 60s that uses
    blackletter...\r\nWilliam thanks for the reminder about the BOC/ACDC stuff."
  created: '2008-02-20 21:08:50'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/german_club_cd27_6036.jpg]\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-20 21:34:38'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Looks like the 1972 album <em>Black Widow III</em> by [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_Widow_%28band%29|Black
    Widow]], an English group, used all-cap (yuck) blackletter on the cover. That
    predates ACDC, Motorhead, and Blue Oyster Cult (but not Elvis).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/blackwidowiii_3965.jpg]\r\n\r\n[image
    from [[http://www.progarchives.com/artist.asp?id=1059|here]].]"
  created: '2008-02-20 21:54:19'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "on Hawkwind\r\n\r\n<cite>You probably know the story, Dave Brock, the bands
    one constant over all these years forms Hawkwind in the late 60's, a top 3 single
    in the form of Silver Machine follows in 1972, the vocalist on that particular
    ditty being non other than Motorhead's main man, Lemmy, who a couple of years
    later manages to get himself busted on the US - Canadian border which in turn
    leads to his sacking!</cite>"
  created: '2008-02-20 22:04:07'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Nice! The Elvis example is really weird. It looks so heavy to me now. I am
    sure it just looked churchy/liturgical at the time. \r\n\r\nI think that in the
    UK & East coast of the US at the turn of the previous century there was a formula
    of Blackletter=Title. I can't prove it. But that is my sense. Probably that cam
    from Diplomas & Certificates.\r\n\r\nActually... the Diploma Certificate thing
    probably plays a role in the tattoo use. In all three the Blackletter has the
    role of a sort of \"super-label\"."
  created: '2008-02-20 22:09:57'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "More goodness. IDK if this is actually black letter, but aesthetic is there.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cover_doremi_5236.gif]\r\n\r\nfrom
    [[http://myweb.tiscali.co.uk/hawkwind/introduction1.html|here]]"
  created: '2008-02-20 22:17:29'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "From 1974:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/captainlockheed74_5461.jpg]
    [img:sites/default/files/old-images/phantom1974_3832.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/jonlord1974_6544.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-20 22:31:13'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: That Hawkwind story is pretty amazing. I finally heard Silver Machine... I
    think you have it now. Hands down. Hawkwind is the seed.
  created: '2008-02-20 22:33:26'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: That song makes me want roller skates, for realz.
  created: '2008-02-20 22:48:29'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> IDK if this is actually black letter</em>\r\n\r\nThe lettering looks
    more like Chevrolet than Volkswagen to me."
  created: '2008-02-20 23:35:19'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I know what you mean, but those Ws\u2026\r\n\r\n plus I'm thinking about
    what [[http://www.stormtype.com/typefaces-fonts-shop/families-47-teuton|Franti\u0161ek
    \u0160torm]] says about Teuton, which could be an interesting addition to this
    thread.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-20 23:51:49'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "> <em>but i repeat my question: would you be willing to share your talk with
    typophile ? it\u2019s been a scintillating read so far !</em>\r\n\r\nOh, don't
    make too much of it. It is an introductory presentation aimed at students, and
    this topic is merely one of a few examples in one of the many topics.\r\n\r\nIt
    might end up as an article on Unzipped though."
  created: '2008-02-21 09:10:16'
- author:
    name: Richard Hards
    picture: 110084
  body: "<cite>Craig wrote: From 1974:</cite>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Captain-Lockheed-Starfighters-Robert-Calvert/dp/B0000011L7\"
    target=\"new\">Captain Lockheed and the Starfighters</a> was by Bob Calvert who
    was in Hawkwind, so there's a connection.\r\n\r\nGreat fun, well it certainly
    was 30 years ago ;)"
  created: '2008-02-21 10:06:42'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "Ch> <em>i don\u2019t see how one can possibly divorce formal aspects from
    popular associations. as an academic exercise perhaps, but not in the real world.</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    is because the letter form has personal attributes ( ie. script) <em>and</em>
    has very strong attributes, that is why it is a popular type of choice throughout
    the body art community. \r\n\r\nYou should really get more. Go talk with the owners
    of tattoo shops. In Ottawa, places like Planet Ink (where I've been seen once
    or twice), will tell you that it is because of it's attributes blackletter is
    popular (and too a lesser extent some cursive faces). And btw, the reverse is
    also true. Monoweight sans serif is not popular. It is not popular because it
    is seen as being - plain.\r\n\r\nThese are very cool words coming from different
    societies and cultures. Words like 'style' and 'plain' will always transcend pop
    culture. Blackletter is as hip today and the century to come, as it was during
    the last century and the century before that (etc.). \r\n\r\nAnd the more 'exposure'
    it gets - the more appreciated it will become as a modern artistic statement with
    a long rich history.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2008-02-21 17:00:11'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Here's a working hypothesis. Psych picks up Uncial forms to get that earthy,
    fancy, historic vibe and as the heavier psych bands refine and reduce black letter
    replaces the uncial trend.\r\n\r\nCase One\u2014Small Faces (1967)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/There_are_but_four_small_faces_5719.jpg]\r\n\r\nCase
    Two\u2014Pesky Gee (1968\u2014quickly evolves into Black Widow mentioned above)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bwbig6_4631.jpg]\r\n\r\nCase
    Three\u2014Black Sabbath (1970)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/blacksabbath_6271.jpg]\r\n\r\nIt
    appears the desire to look fancy and old gave way to fancy, old, and\u2014as Nathan
    Explosion would say\u2014brutal."
  created: '2008-02-21 17:14:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Neil, the notion that Blackletter inherently has certain associations built
    in because of the way it looks is a mistake. I agree that Blackletter invokes
    strong feeling & Associations. That is undeniable. But the reality is that these
    are imposed on it by us. What I can agree with is that Blackletter continues to
    feel very distinctive in our Roman & Sans dominated culture.
  created: '2008-02-21 17:45:06'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i think that the whole music bent might be a red herring if you're looking
    for origins. i think tracing the history of black letter tattoos in America is
    the key and i'm guessing that Dennis is probably right that the Mexican affinity
    for black letter has greatly affected this trend.
  created: '2008-02-21 17:57:28'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Yes. We are way off track on the music. The thread has devolved into a search
    for the first use of black letter on a heavy rock oriented record. I've been looking
    at the early gangsta rap for a first instance and I'm not coming up with much.
  created: '2008-02-21 18:18:48'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "Eban><em>Neil, the notion that Blackletter inherently has certain associations
    built in because of the way it looks is a mistake.</em>\r\n\r\nYou are wrong ...sorry.\r\n\r\nIt
    is precisely because of how the elements (weak and strong) with a blackletter
    relate to one another <em>is</em> what provokes a response from deep within us,
    mexicans, germans alike ...all of us. And that my friend is called ...'good design'.
    \ \r\n\r\nBlackletter will never seem 'flat' or 'plain', and from what I know
    of the great people of Mexico - they're anything but 'plain'. The same can be
    said of those who participate in the body art community. And it was a natural
    extension for gangs to relate to blackletter.\r\n\r\nGood design will always stand
    the test of time. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-21 18:51:37'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I understand that you feel that way. I am not saying how you feel is invalid.
    Quite he opposite! But it is a cultural construct. Another culture might feel
    quite differently and draw completely different associations deep or otherwise.
    And they do. You can feel something without it being \"essential\". The idea that
    what you feel about type or art is essential and eternal is just nonsense. That
    doesn't make it feel less. It just means you are not the measure of all things.
    Is that sooo terrible? Insisting otherwise is like insisting that the universe
    revolves around you, or the earth, or the sun. It just ain't so. Have a little
    humility! \r\n\r\n<cite>Good design will always stand the test of time.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    am not sure how this relates. But I am sure that you can't recognize what was
    best and will stand the test of time in the period in which you live. That takes
    ... time.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-21 19:37:12'
- author:
    name: David Sudweeks
    picture: 112594
  body: "I lived in El Salvador for a couple years at the turn of the century. Blackletter
    has been in use in the artwork of the gangs for a long while; I can't say how
    long. I'm going to go out on a limb and say that for latin cultures the connotations
    bound to blackletter have more to do with formality and quality in general\u2014as
    opposed to the dimension of being dangerous, edgy, misunderstood, etc.\r\nFunny
    this come up today\u2014I've been drawing blackletter caps all morning."
  created: '2008-02-21 20:45:18'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Care to show us your caps?
  created: '2008-02-21 22:02:41'
- author:
    name: David Sudweeks
    picture: 112594
  body: They'll be on my type b'logue before too long. You can see sketches of my
    lowercase and figures there now.
  created: '2008-02-21 22:05:38'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>I\u2019ve been looking at the early gangsta rap for a first instance
    and I\u2019m not coming up with much.</em>\r\n\r\nMe neither. But here's 1992:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bodycount92_6660.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-22 00:49:52'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Going back to the Elvis cover above, I think that There has for a long time
    been a biblical association with blackletter - by the same people who call it
    Gothic and Old English and used it with great solemnity. I think that by extension,
    since many \"bad-boy\" heavy metal bands, use black magic and evil-uber-bad devil-worship
    themes, blackletter is the perfect choice beause of the irreverence, and like
    black magic and Satanism, it's not really a departure from religion, it's just
    a perversion, or at least, different take on it. You can't reject something if
    you don't first acknowledge it. Gangs - Biker gangs in particular, tend to use
    death's heads, a devils and tombstones to represent their chosen place as outsiders,
    (... outlaws, 1%ers, etc.) The religious reference of blackletter lettering suggests
    what it is you are outside of. Biker gangs and street gangs aren't the same thing,
    but there could easily be some cross pollination.\r\n \r\nAnd, for all the rough
    and tough-guy swaggering of gang types, there is quite a bit of flat-out sappy
    sentimentally to tattoo art. Could be that the choice of lettering for - oh, I
    don't know... \"R.I.P. Mom\" could influence the lettering chosen for gang related
    tattoos. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/new-7_3510.jpg]\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-02-22 01:12:19'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>and like black magic and Satanism, it\u2019s not really a departure
    from religion, it\u2019s just a perversion, or at least, different take on it</cite>\r\n\r\nYes.
    The \"Satanists\" tend to appear in direct proportion to the fundamentalist born-agains.
    Here in the Jethroplex we have more churches, more strip clubs and more pyramid
    schemes than anywhere else in the states. Maybe I'll escape\u2026"
  created: '2008-02-22 01:27:56'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: '"Jethroplex"! Wow. That''s a tasty one. Is that your or is it in common currency
    in TX?'
  created: '2008-02-22 02:35:49'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>I know what you mean, but those Ws\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nMaybe so. Since
    Godwin's already been invoked, I can say: they look closer to [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SS_unit_insignia|SS
    insignia]] than to blackletter.\r\n\r\n<em>plus I\u2019m thinking about what Franti\u0161ek
    \u0160torm says about Teuton, which could be an interesting addition to this thread.</em>\r\n\r\nThanks
    for that link - good stuff."
  created: '2008-02-22 04:08:57'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "hiroshige, i'm trying to understand : everything you attribute to the power
    of the blackletters is meaningful in three possible contexts : animal (pleasure),
    intellectual (aesthetix) and cultural (community). i doubt the 1st one, (depending
    on who actually made the cave paintings), i appreciate the 2nd but believe it
    to be incomplete in this case, and i have reliable experience with the 3rd. \r\n\r\n>>You
    should really get more. \r\n\r\nnot sure what you meant there, but i generally
    agree. i'm adding to my left sleeve next month. i hang out with plenty of ink
    & inkers, i'm well inked, and i've not heard much tat talk, even among the art-schooled,
    about the formal aspects of the letterforms, let alone the word blackletter. but
    i've heard plenty about heritage, background, symbolism, deeply associational
    threads, the meaning of the personal choices. \r\n\r\nacademics aside, the power
    of the letters may be in the crazy fun of them, but very much also in all the
    associations they bring to play.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nsmiling emoticon"
  created: '2008-02-22 14:04:59'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>\u201CJethroplex\u201D! Wow. That\u2019s a tasty one. Is that your
    or is it in common currency in TX?</cite>\r\n\r\nCan't take credit."
  created: '2008-02-22 17:24:21'
- author:
    name: tina
    picture: 109693
  body: "See also Lisbon ATypI: Fran\xE7ois Chastanet: \"Pixa\xE7ao letterforms \u2013
    From European Antiquity to Brazilian shantytowns\". \r\n\r\nChastanet's theory
    about the evolution of the special Sao Paolo graffity letter forms was based on
    influences by logos and album covers on 70/80ies rock band albums as well as black
    letter forms. He showed several charts and provided a theory about the formal
    development as well as lots of information about the general background. "
  created: '2008-02-23 00:28:55'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Do you have a like to that?
  created: '2008-02-23 00:35:31'
- author:
    name: tina
    picture: 109693
  body: "http://atypi.org/30_past_conferences/06_Lisbon/30_program/40_speakers/view_person_html?personid=1601\r\nhttp://www.atypi.org/30_past_conferences/06_Lisbon/30_program/20_main_program/view_presentation_html?presentid=239\r\nChastanet's
    book: http://www.francoischastanet.com/index.php?id=works&w=b&item=1\r\nthis article:
    http://glaze0101.com/index.php?s=ttsss&sbutt=Go\r\narticle in eye magazine: http://www.eyemagazine.com/feature.php?id=123&fid=540\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-23 10:33:01'
- author:
    name: akma
    picture: 110015
  body: "Following up on russellim's perspective, I had inferred that blackletter
    appeals not because of associations directly with authority or religion, but with
    the semi-chivalric ethos that many gangs cultivate. If that's correct, \"authority\"
    and \"religion\" come along as ingredients to a worldview wherein the gang member
    is a <em>knight</em>; a bike is his <em>horse</em>; he is associated with a <em>lady</em>;
    loyalty to turf, group, and leader is the fundamental law; and one protects all
    these by violence as necessary.\r\n\r\nNo other design connotes that chivalric
    ethos, so far as I can recall early on a Saturday morning, as well as blackletter
    does -- and blackletter subsequently signals \"strength\" and \"danger\" from
    its association (justified or not) with German authoritarianism, religious deviance,
    and other anti-bourgeois American phenomena.\r\n\r\nDon't ask how I came by this
    conclusion."
  created: '2008-02-23 12:54:22'
- author:
    name: tina
    picture: 109693
  body: "hm, what about ornamental & playful, but edgy instead of smooth?\r\n\r\nOr,
    the other way round: are there other typefaces that would match with these specifiations? "
  created: '2008-02-23 16:20:51'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>It is said that shoe shine boys started it all, marking their places
    with daubers</cite>\r\n\r\nfantastic"
  created: '2008-03-05 00:06:11'
- author:
    name: Wes Wong
  body: "As James Puckett mentions, there were printing presses in Mexico who stocked
    up on Blackletter. In short, it was said that this influenced the signpainters
    in Mexico to create signage in blackletter styles, eventually becoming a standard
    in headline fonts/hand lettering. It made its way up to the US as people migrated
    north. \r\n\r\nEarly Hip-Hop (early 70's) actually did have gangs, most notable
    are the 'black spades' which became the Zulu Nation. The activities included DJ'ing,
    Bboy'ing, MC'ing, & Writing/graffiti \u2013 all hobbies which predate \"hip-hop\".
    Style Wars itself is actually not a documentary on 'early' graffiti, as it was
    filmed when NYC graffiti was about 12 years old. Illegal graffiti actually has
    its origins decades before, which is where blackletter comes back into the picture.\r\n\r\nBesides
    hobo graffiti (possibly dating back to WW1), Cholo graffiti is known as one of
    the first forms of illegal writing and was done in blackletter inspired forms.
    It is said that shoe shine boys started it all, marking their places with daubers,
    eventually transcending into gangs marking territory. Chaz Bojorquez, an original
    cholo style graffiti artist, mentions... \r\n\r\n\"This squarish, prestigious
    typeface was meant to present to the public a formal document, encouraging gang
    strength, and creating an aura of exclusivity.\" \r\n\r\nChaz would probably be
    a great resource for you if you are into learning more about the cholo blackletter
    evolution. And <a href=\"http://www.graffitiverite.com/cb-cholowriting.htm\">here</a>
    is the article I quoted him from. \r\n\r\nAn interesting thing to note is that
    current (non-gang) graffiti has seen a small trend of artists painting their versions
    of blackletter. Here are a few:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/84042745_95ef3dd4f2_5004.jpg]\r\n\"Seventh
    Letter\" by Eklips\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/retna_4018.jpg]\r\n\"MINDS
    SEEK KNOWLEDGE, REVOKSABERRETNA\" Detail of a wall. Lettering by Retna\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-05 07:30:48'
- author:
    name: yellow sunshine
  body: "in response to:\r\n\r\n[[> Yves, originally hip-hop and early rap, which
    originated in the Bronx, New York City, was not associated with gangs. It had
    three elements: graffiti, break dancing, and rap music.\r\n\r\nYeah, I knew that
    \u2014 I was a breakdancer in my days. ;^) Thanks for the documentary and the
    tips.]]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n Actually it wasn't \"hip-hop\" until the media came along
    and decided to package and label these \"elements\" that specific term during
    the 1980s. Before this, it had always been there, it had always been inner-city
    youth CULTURE before \"hip-hop\", and it certainly was initially influenced by
    gangs. The act of \"getting up\" too stems from gangs and political messages,
    do your homework on what influenced TAKI 183 to start writing.. here's a hint
    \"JULIO 204\" of the Savage Skulls!!\r\n\r\n The inner-city gang culture of NYC
    was in fact inherent to the \"bad-boy\" biker gang culture of the 1950s and 60s,
    hence why many kids during those days wore DA (Duck's Ass) haircuts and why they
    wore jackets with the sleeves cut off and their gang's name patched on the back.
    Ever watch the movie WARRIORS? However, they never called themselves gangs, they
    were called \"clubs\", taken from Motorcycle Club (MC). Remember now, motorcycle
    clubs like the Hell's Angels, their early founding members were veterans, so their
    style is that of a military nature, hence the patches and the order of rank among
    it's members. Also, take a look at Afrika Bambatta, he was a high ranked Black
    Spades member before starting the Zulu Nation! Even the term \"B-Boy\" stems from
    \"Bad-Boy\", hence their attitude when \"breakdancing\"! \r\n\r\n So in ending,
    gangs were very much so associated with these so-called \"elements\". Take the
    first ever rap crews like, \"THE FEARLESS FOUR\", \"TREACHEROUS 3\", \"GRANDMASTER
    FLASH AND THE FURIOUS FIVE\", \"COLDCRUSH BROTHERS\", etc. and how they flashed
    letters like Old English and Blackletter fonts ironed-on or screen printed on
    the fronts or backs of their shirts, sweaters, and jackets, or in other words
    their \"colors\"! Even the dancers and their crews during that time did this.\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-19 12:54:59'
date: '2008-02-20 00:40:19'
node_type: forum
title: Origin of blackletter use in gang tattoos

---
