---
author:
  name: black currant
body: "Hello All,\r\nI work at a magazine and we're discussing our use of the [[ellipsis]].
  Currently, we use period, full space, period, etc. and I find it makes me crazy.
  There's just way too much space. I suggested using period, thin space, period, etc.
  but a friend told me I should just use the glyph since that's what it's there for.\r\n\r\nWhat
  type of ellipsis are people using these days?\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: diaoyudaosaf
  body: "\r\n<br><hr><br>\r\n<b><a href=\"http://www.oakley-sunglasses.asia/\">\u30AA\u30FC\u30AF\u30EA\u30FC
    \u30B5\u30F3\u30B0\u30E9\u30B9</a></b><br>\r\n<b><a href=\"http://www.oakley-sunglasses.asia/\">\u30AA\u30FC\u30AF\u30EA\u30FC
    \u30B4\u30FC\u30B0\u30EB</a></b><br>\r\n<b><a href=\"http://www.oakley-sunglasses.asia/\">\u30AA\u30FC\u30AF\u30EA\u30FC
    \u30E1\u30AC\u30CD</a></b><br>\r\n<b><a href=\"http://www.oakley-sunglasses.asia/\">\u30AA\u30FC\u30AF\u30EA\u30FC</a></b><br>\r\n<b><a
    href=\"http://www.oakley-sunglasses.asia/\">\u30AA\u30FC\u30AF\u30EA\u30FC \u6FC0\u5B89</a></b><br>"
  created: '2013-08-15 15:12:47'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: It makes me crazy too (period/space/period/space/etc) but that seems to be
    the standard in publishing. The other problem with it is line breaks, I often
    have to track it up to get all three periods on the same line. I vastly prefer
    the glyph but my editors won't go for it.
  created: '2008-02-20 16:24:43'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "FWIW here's what Chicago has to say:\r\n\r\nQ. Our writing department uses
    Chicago\u2019s style of putting spaces between the periods in ellipses. The graphic
    designers argue that in typesetting, the space is much smaller, and so use the
    ellipses character that is built into our publishing software. Who is correct?\r\n\r\nA.
    Everyone is correct. Chicago uses the spaces, but not everyone follows Chicago
    style. Someone in your department just needs to pick a style and stick with it.
    If you use the ellipsis character, make sure your typesetters know whether you
    want spaces between the dots.\r\n\r\n(of course the last sentence of the answer
    makes no sense - if you use the ellipsis character you can't put spaces btw the
    dots)"
  created: '2008-02-20 16:29:13'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "... period period period.\r\n\r\nno spaces, period."
  created: '2008-02-20 16:30:01'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "...in which case you might as well use the ellipsis character. Except when
    you're using a monospace font, where it looks stooopid.\r\n\r\nFWIW, we use the
    unspaced version in our academic journals...\r\n______________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2008-02-20 16:40:53'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I use the ellipsis character. If I didn\u2019t, my editors would be very
    unkind."
  created: '2008-02-20 17:14:47'
- author:
    name: black currant
  body: I'm just about to go into a meeting about this with our editors. I think I
    will suggest using the glyph. The dot/thin space/dot might be too much for them.
    Oh God, then there's the problem of ellipsis ending in a period... .
  created: '2008-02-20 17:24:41'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "black current:\r\n\r\nBe aware that there are multiple styles -- Associated
    Press has one style, Chicago another, Modern Language Association another . .
    .\r\n\r\nConsider this, too. If you use a fixed space between the points in (and
    perhaps around) an ellipsis, you have a character that takes up an em's worth
    of space or more, conjoined to a word that probably takes up several ems worth
    of space. You also remove those spaces within the ellipsis as \"justifying\" spaces
    in a line. Finally, many editors also don't want to have an ellipsis begin or
    end a line. All right, now if you follow all these purities (fixed spaces, no
    line breaks, etc.,) there are going to be times when, in setting justified copy,
    the few remaining justifying word spaces in a line are either have to be huge
    (loose line) or tiny (tight line), in order to set the line. I suppose if you
    are only setting 60 lines -- a brochure -- that can be worked around. If you are
    setting a book, 7,000 lines, that's a PITA with any author favoring ellipses .
    . .\r\n\r\nBTW, PattyFab, my old Chicago says to use a 3-to-the-em fixed space
    between the points. (13th ed, section 10.36). That's a honking big space -- bigger
    than a nominal justifying word space. We tried to make them see the error of that
    spec when we wrote the glossary; dunno if they made a change in later editions.\r\n\r\n\r\nCharles'
    favorite dictum: \"All editors, and all designers, would be better at their jobs
    if they had set type for a while.\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-20 17:47:09'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I wish, when putting an ellipsis character after an actual period, that the
    spacing between the period and the first ellipsis dot matched the spacing between
    the ellipsis dots.
  created: '2008-02-20 17:58:37'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: ^ that's what the editors want! And with OpenType maybe we will see an ellipsis
    with period character.
  created: '2008-02-20 18:01:18'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Most editors are traditionalists and will prefer spaced periods. Most typographers
    consider this to be usually too much space. \r\n\r\nPeriods set tight are too
    tight. Looks miserly.\r\n\r\nI think that using the ellipsis character can have
    it's own problems. For one thing, the design (spacing) of the ellipsis character
    can vary greatly among designers/foundries. Some are too tight, some are too loose.
    Usually the spacing between ellipsis and period has not been taken into consideration.\r\n\r\nCharles
    mentioned the problems with justifying, and Patty mentioned the problem with line
    breaks. (Patty, I can't remember how I used to do it in Quark, but you can search
    out the sequence period-space-period-space-period and substitute non-breaking
    spaces. I think you might have to export the text as tagged text and use the code
    for the non-breaking space, then re-import. It's been a while.)\r\n\r\nAfter some
    consideration, the practice I've arrived at in my own type designs is to space
    the ellipsis periods with an interval equal to the space character -- this yields
    an ellipsis which is a little tighter than spaced periods because is leaves out
    the sidebearings from the period character, but is looser than unspaced periods.
    \r\n\r\nI then set the sidebearings on the ellipsis so that when set alongside
    a period, the space between the two is consistent with the internal spacing of
    the ellipsis (this yields sidebearings on the ellipsis that are wider than the
    period). \r\n\r\nWhile I do some pair-kerning with the period, I don't apply the
    kerning values to the ellipsis. So there's a subtle distinction between period-ellipsis
    and ellipsis-period sequences, which shows up in the spacing relationship with
    the surrounding characters. I feel these differences support the subtle distinctions
    in how/why an author might sequence the two in either fashion.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-20 19:10:40'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "My 2 cents:\r\n\r\n**  If you use the ellipsis character with justifying
    spaces flanking, you will at times end up with huge word spaces throughout the
    line, and then those tiny spaces between the ellipsis points. Looks really stupid.
    In fact, it says to me \"the person who designed this layout or set this type
    . . . doesn't know how to make a line look good.\"\r\n\r\n**  I am not a strong
    believer that an ellipsis should not start a line. As a reader I find it no impediment
    to moving through the text. As a typographer, that little bit of open space does
    not look bad. Allowing a line to start with an ellipsis may also be a way to solve
    some other spacing problems.\r\n\r\n**  My preferred method is to use thin spaces
    within and flanking the ellipsis. If you have designed your text well, and used
    H&Js that will give you nice, tight word spaces, the thins won't be that much
    different from the justifying spaces. This is what Al Johnson at Phoenix Type
    here in Minnesota does when he sets type for me.\r\n\r\n**  If all typeface designers
    took the care with the ellipsis (and with other sorts) that Kent does we'd all
    be better off and be able to go home earlier. Few do, though.\r\n\r\n**  Don't
    let editors badger you about type . . . or ellipses. Teach them what looks good.\r\n\r\n**
    \ I was going to use the ellipsis character in this post, to make a point (so
    to speak), but I don't know where it is. I guess I don't really care since I'll
    never use it.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2008-02-20 19:34:14'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "If you use QUARK you can set up kerning pairs for multiple periods...\r\n\r\n<cite>**
    Don\u2019t let editors badger you about type . . . or ellipses. Teach them what
    looks good.</cite>\r\n\r\nbut a lot of publishers have \"house style\" and aren't
    very flexible about it."
  created: '2008-02-20 19:40:51'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: ">>  a lot of publishers have \u201Chouse style\u201D and aren\u2019t very
    flexible about it.\r\n\r\nI know. I just can't stop myself from saying crap like
    that. Because I believe it. & I have taught some editors better style.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2008-02-20 19:45:18'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "The current (15th) edition of \"Chicago\" does not specify the amount of
    space to be put between ellipsis points. It just refers to \"three spaced periods.\"
    See 11.51 through 11.66. After that initial mention of \"three spaced periods\"
    they go on to refer to \"dots\" rather than periods.\r\n\r\nIn 14 they still specified
    those godawful 3-to-em spaces Charles mentioned. In 15 they got it right.\r\n\r\nTime
    marches on . . . and wounds all heels.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2008-02-20 20:06:17'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: Try no spaces with generous tracking.
  created: '2008-02-20 20:12:00'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "This is, I think, another typewriterism that plagues typesetters. On a typewriter,
    there is no ellipsis character, so you have the choice of three periods, or three
    periods separated by spaces. The former is too tight, the latter is better, but
    too wide. Because it is better, it becomes the standard.\r\n\r\nFifty years pass.
    Typewriters become extinct. Computer fonts do have ellipsis characters, but people
    who grew up with the typewriter spaced versions think they look too tight. It
    is like the second space after a period, which we are just now beginning to train
    typewriter-indocrinated people to omit.\r\n\r\nThe solution is simple. Use the
    character that a professional typeface designer created to look perfect with his
    or her font. If that character is wrong, then you probably have a poorly designed
    font."
  created: '2008-02-20 20:33:59'
- author:
    name: black currant
  body: "I just got out of the copy-related-design-elements meeting and we will be
    using the glyphs that come with our font. I had to argue it though. I also pushed
    for thin-space before and em-dash (instead of a full space) but that was a no-go
    (although, an editor said she agreed with me philosophically). \r\n\r\nI agree
    with you Don that people are extremely attached to these \"typewriterisms\". I
    still get stories full of double spaces before each sentence. \r\n\r\nThank you
    all for your comments!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-20 21:16:56'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>I was going to use the ellipsis character in this post, to make a point
    (so to speak), but I don\u2019t know where it is.</em>\r\n\r\nOption-semicolon
    on my mac \u2026 FWIW"
  created: '2008-02-20 21:19:40'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Try no spaces with generous tracking.</cite>\r\n\r\nSo, only computer
    composition with application programs that support tracking can set \"good\" type?
    And you wonder why editor's tend not to listen to designers?"
  created: '2008-02-20 21:48:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I wish, when putting an ellipsis character after an actual period, that
    the spacing between the period and the first ellipsis dot matched the spacing
    between the ellipsis dots.</em>\r\n\r\nYour wish is granted."
  created: '2008-02-20 22:36:58'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "smackdown: \u2026   vs.   ... \r\nand the winner is...    \u2026 !"
  created: '2008-02-20 22:59:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Isn't the traditional method for foundries to make the ellipsis em-width?\r\nDoes
    that still have any merit?"
  created: '2008-02-21 00:06:32'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > This is, I think, another typewriterism that plagues typesetters.
    On a typewriter, there is no ellipsis character, </cite>\r\n\r\nI'm sorry, but
    I don't buy this \"typewriterism\" theory. There was no ellipsis character in
    the foundry case or on the Linotype/Monotype keyboard either, back when the typewriter
    was commonplace. The ellipsis was always formed from periods and spaces. The difference
    was that the typesetter had a variety of spaces at his command. The \"typewriter-er\"
    did not.\r\n\r\nI don't think there existed a pre-composed ellipsis prior to digital
    type. \r\n\r\n<cite> > Use the character that a professional typeface designer
    created to look perfect with his or her font. If that character is wrong, then
    you probably have a poorly designed font. </cite>\r\n\r\nI actually don't think
    most typeface designers create the ellipsis to look perfect with their fonts,
    since perfect (in the case of the ellipsis) is a function of the setting, not
    the typeface design.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I don't advocate the use of the pre-composed
    ellipsis for the reasons cited by Will and Charles. Given that it exists as part
    of the standard character set, I try to design it with care. But I don't use it
    myself. \r\n\r\n<cite> > Isn\u2019t the traditional method for foundries to make
    the ellipsis em-width?\r\nDoes that still have any merit? </cite>\r\n\r\nFor all
    the reasons cited here, I think the em-width approach has no merit. I think this
    was another \"standard\" developed by early digital pioneers who weren't actually
    typesetters.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-21 00:48:20'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: "<cite>So, only computer composition with application programs that support
    tracking can set \u201Cgood\u201D type? And you wonder why editors tend not to
    listen to designers?</cite>\r\n\r\nNot at all what I was getting at. I was simply
    offering one solution that I prefer, like many of the other posters on this thread.
    No need to get unchuffed.\r\n\r\nTracking, by the way is not limited to computers,
    predated by letter-spacing, as I'm sure you know. : )"
  created: '2008-02-21 14:45:13'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> Isn\u2019t the traditional method for foundries to make the ellipsis em-width?\r\nDoes
    that still have any merit?\r\n\r\nNo more than any other rule in typography that
    conflicts with the Golden Rule of Typography: It should look <i>right</i>!"
  created: '2008-02-21 15:40:04'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Isn\u2019t the traditional method for foundries to make the ellipsis
    em-width?\r\nDoes that still have any merit?</em>\r\n\r\nAccording to <a href=\"http://www.microsoft.com/typography/developers/fdsspec/punc.htm\">Microsoft's
    character standards</a>, this is the correct way to fit this glyph. However, a
    quick check of the new CT fonts found that only 1 family actually followed this
    rule."
  created: '2008-02-21 16:00:06'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I've found, in some cases, that the ellipsis character doesn't sit on the
    same baseline as the period. \r\n\r\nAnyway, given that a best case scenario would
    be to avoid the character and make each instance using the period and spaces,
    I find three basic possible configurations for the ellipsis glyph.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Example_3624.gif]\r\n\r\nWhat
    is most confusing is that in the current Chicago, it appears that the examples
    vary from what I'm showing above. Examples like number one above show a sentence
    space after the ellipsis. In examples like number two above there is a word space
    after the period. (11.63 & 11.64 for those following at home)\r\n\r\nI'm not a
    type designer, but it would seem there are uses for three separate characters,
    given that two would be identical save the side bearings.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-22 00:21:25'
- author:
    name: Typical
    picture: 112513
  body: No one has mentioned Bringhurst's <em>Elements,</em> which criticizes Chicago's
    method as being too open. Likewise, I agree with those who find the included ellipsis
    in fonts to be too tight; is it ok to have a character wider than the em in fonts?
    I currently use a macro that inserts a space, then a combination of 3 periods
    and 2 non-breaking spaces, all with character style having tighter tracking, and
    finally a normal space. This works for the fonts I use. The first line below uses
    this method; 2nd line is spaces and periods, 3rd is the font's built-in ellipsis
    with regular spaces. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/ellipsis_3504.png]
  created: '2008-02-22 05:50:24'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I think many people work with editors who are more tuned to Chicago than
    Bringhurst.\r\n\r\nWhat would be lovely would be to pick out the collective intent
    of the mark, the difficult usage situations, and a proposal for a more automated
    and universal solution. \r\n\r\nIn the example I posted above I'm using the ellipsis
    mark from the font. What I don't get is what Chicago wants in terms of a space
    after a period or other sentence ending punctuation when combined with an ellipsis."
  created: '2008-02-22 15:39:19'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Editors don't know Bringhurst from Adam. They all use Chicago.
  created: '2008-02-22 16:21:27'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Most Adobe fonts were designed with the ellipsis on an em width, per Chicago.
    When I questioned the practice a while back, David Lemon told me that it allowed
    for the ellipsis to be used as a standardized dot leader in typesetting software.
    I'm not completely convinced this is still relevant today, but it might explain
    the history.\r\n\r\nWe've recently been talking about some possibilities for contextual
    processing to use it both for the dot leader function and as an actual ellipsis.\r\n\r\n>
    I often have to track it up to get all three periods on the same line.\r\n\r\nWhy
    not just format it with \"no break\"? Or is this a feature not present in your
    DTP software?\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-02-23 12:04:31'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Editors don\u2019t know Bringhurst from Adam. They all use Chicago.</cite>\r\n\r\nThose
    of us who cry ourselves to sleep after the daily dose of AP style wish it were
    so."
  created: '2008-02-23 14:52:51'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Thomas: <cite>Why not just format it with \u201Cno break\u201D? Or is this
    a feature not present in your DTP software?</cite>\r\n\r\nIf you mean the *nobreak*
    space character, it is usually 500 units -- an en-space. Too big. \r\n\r\nBack
    when we were using TeX, we had a new customer who used Quark, and wanted an ellipsis
    with fixed space between the periods, rather than the justifying word space (my
    preference). But they had trouble specifying that fixed space. With TeX, we could
    define \\ellip{} to be anything (e.g., .\\hskip.02em{}.\\hskip.02em{}.). We set
    ellipses with about 30 different values for the horizontal skip, so they could
    pick a value. Faced with that level of choice, they just gave up & said \"set
    what you think looks good.\"\r\n\r\nVarying house style s not something the type
    designer should address. From my point of view, the ellipsis character is there
    only for those who don't really have an opinion.\r\n\r\nAs to Chicago Style, I've
    sat in too many meeting where the Chicago editors had to field complaints about
    \"Chicago style.\" Their answer, which seems perfectly appropriate to me, is that
    Chicago Style is the house style of the University of Chicago Press. Anyone who
    doesn't want to follow a particular part of it is free to do what they want. And
    while rare in practice, the University of Chicago Press does, on occasion, vary
    from their house style when it makes sense to do so. Formatting tables is one
    obvious place where the overall design of a book may require varying from the
    standard template & style. That some other editors take Chicago Style as revealed
    truth rather than a way to proceed when all other things are equal is not Chicago's
    problem.\r\n\r\nThe best answer is to think about what an ellipsis signals, and
    how this is best done within the rhythm of the text. It would be a copout to only
    look at what Bringhurst says, or Chicago says. Whatever you come up with will
    be a compromise, so pay attention to what you are willing to live with."
  created: '2008-02-23 15:26:35'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "I haven't read every scrap of text on this thread but will offer my take
    on ellipsis for what it's worth.\r\n\r\n(1) To a type designer, ellipsis is a
    single, self-contained character, consisting of three dots <strong>and no more
    than three dots</strong>. For example, there is no such thing as an ellipsis made
    up of four dots. What are the bars like on a Euro? They're slashed from top right
    to bottom left. That's the standard for a Euro. What's the definition of an ellipsis?
    Three dots. That's all there is to it. Anything more and it's not an ellipsis.\r\n\r\n(2)
    The idea of breaking up the dots of an ellipsis over two lines is preposterous
    and inconcievable. \r\n\r\n(3) When I use ellipsis in typeset material (rarely)
    it goes at the end of a line or as close to the end of a line as possible. Usually
    I use an emdash instead of an ellipsis because ellipsis has become a typographic
    clich\xE9 thanks to the internet and message boards.\r\n\r\n(4) If my editor or
    other seniors question the way I use ellipsis, or the fact I've replaced it with
    an emdash I tell them emphatically \"It's just common sense. If you don't agree,
    sack me.\" Nobody has ever sacked me for it. I always get my way becaws it's very
    easy to demonstrate why breaking the thing up or putting it on the next line when
    it clearly belongs at the end of the previous line is the most utterly senseless
    thing you can do with an ellipsis.\r\n\r\n(5) This thread and most of its participants
    are firmly in the grip of Bringhurst and the Chicago Manual of Style. The rest
    of the world is not slave to such unimaginative and stifling typesetting manuals.\r\n\r\n(4)
    You don't put a period or a comma or any other form of dot-like punctuation after
    an ellipsis. What are you guys, nuts? An ellipsis is equivelant to a period. At
    the end of a sentence it indicates that the sentence continues. It's common sense
    that if the sentence continues, there is no need for a period, no earthly reason
    for putting one there. Replace the ellipsis with an emdash---now put a period
    after the emdash. No-no-no! Common sense. It doesn't belong there because the
    dash indicates the sentence continues. So why would you do that to an ellipsis?
    Doesn't make sense.\r\n\r\n(5) Breaking the ellipsis up over two lines by typing
    it manually with periods and spaces is like taking an emdash and breaking that
    across two lines, or breaking an ampersand over two lines. Inconcievable! That
    makes no sense to me at all. I know, I know, I've covered this point twice. I
    did that on purpose because <em>I'm having trouble believing</em> that anyone
    calling themself a typographer, let alone a professional typographer or typesetter,
    would break an ellipsis over two lines for spacing reasons. Makes no sense to
    me at all and is the kind of boring pedantic act I would never contemplate.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-02-23 15:56:16'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Breaking an ellipsis over to the next line? No that's nuts. Completely bonkers.
    I can't think of anything more counterintuitive. No way dude.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-02-23 16:04:57'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Well James thanks for YOUR take on things but I work in book publishing where
    editors don't take too kindly to \"my way or the highway\". Chicago and Bringhurst
    are designed to set up common styles and conventions in typesetting that make
    it clear TO THE READER what is going on. If you want to reinvent punctuation,
    be my guest, but don't expect your readers to thank you. If you're designing a
    poster for a rock festival or a contemporary art exhibition, then sure, play around
    with punctuation, but if you're typesetting a novel for folks to read, creating
    your own punctuation styles will only confuse, distract, and annoy your readers
    (yeah, I used the serial comma there. That's in Chicago too; I don't like it but
    my editors insist on it). \r\n\r\nAn ellipsis has a VERY different function editorially
    than an em-dash. The function of an ellipsis is to indicate omission in cited
    text. Yes, it is used as well to indicate a pause or hesitation in thought or
    trailing off, but those are not its primary function. In those latter cases it
    could perhaps be replaced with another character. But in its primary function
    it must be used as is. It should NEVER be broken over two lines as you've said.
    And you are right that the punctuation (period, comma) should precede not follow
    it. "
  created: '2008-02-23 16:52:52'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Consider the challenges of publishing a book of interviews. You have missing
    info, trailing off, and interuptions to conversation. These are subtle differences
    but they can be handled consistently and will give the reader insight into the
    nuances of the conversation that would otherwise be lost.\r\n\r\nWe need editors
    working with authors to handle this aspect of decision making.\r\n\r\nEvery style
    guide has rules for using ending puncuation with the ellipsis. It is the spacing
    associated with these situations that end up holding the information. See my post
    above."
  created: '2008-02-23 17:18:46'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Sorry if I ranted above, I just think that design that doesn't respect content
    is bad design. As an art director I encountered designers that refused to respect
    editorial concerns and that arrogance really got under my skin. It does a disservice
    to our profession.
  created: '2008-02-23 17:33:16'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I've assembled style guides before. The process of bringing 60 or so NY editors
    together in agreement on micro issues that are not covered by any style guide
    convinced me that most people, even professionals, do not know about the number
    of grey areas in grammar and punctuation.\r\n\r\nI think this is an area that
    warrants a good airing out, as dreadful as it gets."
  created: '2008-02-23 17:37:44'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> And you are right that the punctuation (period, comma) should precede
    not follow it.</em>\r\n\r\nI would think that that would depend on the structure
    of the text that is being omitted. For example:\r\n\r\nORIGINAL:\r\nThey talked
    about ellipsis style in the thread. As you can see, Craig added his opinion.\r\n\r\nPERIOD
    THEN ELLIPSIS:\r\nThey talked about ellipsis style in the thread. \u2026 Craig
    added his opinion.\r\n\r\nELLIPSIS THEN PERIOD:\r\nThey talked about ellipsis
    style \u2026 . As you can see, Craig added his opinion.\r\n\r\n(Note: spacing
    just to clarify the characters used - I'm already on record as wishing the spaces
    in any period-ellipsis combo would be equal.)\r\n\r\nThe four dots are logical
    and informative and should certainly be retained where appropriate. And a dash
    is something else entirely, I believe."
  created: '2008-02-23 18:52:36'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "When I add ellipsi to fonts, I test them to see if they look nice and appropriate
    for the font. Fontlab will autogenerate an ellipsis but often it can look too
    tight. So, usually, I'll space the periods slightly further apart and pad the
    sidebearings a bit until it looks balanced.\r\n\r\nIs everyone cool with that
    strategy?\r\n\r\nIf you're scanning my old fonts for ellipsi, you'll see tight
    ones and Bringhurstian honkers so don't bother. I'm just talking about my current
    ellipsis strategy for text fonts.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-23 19:31:56'
- author:
    name: murphy.md
    picture: 114291
  body: "Why should the spacing between the dots in the ellipsis be equal to the space
    between the ellipsis and the period? It essentially means the reader has no way
    of telling if it should be read ... . or . ... (assuming they even notice there
    are four dots instead of three).\r\n\r\nPersonally, I don't see the need to use
    the period with the ellipsis anyway.\r\n\r\n<cite>Three dots ... anything more
    and it\u2019s not an ellipsis.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut this depends on how much editorial
    freedom you have."
  created: '2008-02-23 22:56:26'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>Why should the spacing between the dots in the ellipsis be equal to the
    space between the ellipsis and the period? It essentially means the reader has
    no way of telling if it should be read ... . or . ... (assuming they even notice
    there are four dots instead of three).</em>\r\n\r\nYou're right that it makes
    the parsing more difficult, so that's a pretty good point. But the space between
    the last word and the first dot should give it away: no space means the first
    dot's a period, space means it's the beginning of an ellipsis. As in jupiterboy's
    \"Granpa\" examples above, which also show different spacing after. "
  created: '2008-02-24 02:50:00'
- author:
    name: Typical
    picture: 112513
  body: "I'm looking at a page on unicode space characters and still pondering:\r\n\r\n[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Space_(punctuation)#Table_of_spaces]]\r\n\r\nEspecially
    the \"thin space,\" \"hair space,\" and \"narrow no-break space.\" However, in
    Word, none of these break. \r\n\r\nIn TNR, \"thin-space\" is the same width as
    \"narrow no-break space,\" and using combinations of these and periods may be
    a viable solution.\r\n\r\nPart of the problem is that there are so many ways to
    create the ellipses. \r\n\r\nInDesign has a character format setting that can
    specify \"do not break.\" \r\n\r\nLooking at eliason's post above, for PERIOD
    THEN ELLIPSIS it would seem allowable to allow a linebreak after the period/before
    the ellipsis, but for ELLIPSIS THEN PERIOD, to my eye, any line break at all doesn't
    work, including before the ellipsis.  \r\n\r\nAlso there is a discrepancy (in
    response to Charles_E): in newer fonts, the non-breaking space is exactly the
    same width as the regular space, but in many \"older\" (in Internet years) fonts
    it is an en-space. The unicode definition calls for the nb space to be the same
    width as regular space.\r\n\r\nThe advantage of using some type of space rather
    than a precomposed glyph is that your paragraph composer (human or programmed)
    could squeeze or stretch the ellipsis along with the rest of the line. \r\n\r\nBut
    of course if there is no ellipsis in the font many will complain ...\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-24 04:15:31'
- author:
    name: murphy.md
    picture: 114291
  body: "<cite>You\u2019re right that it makes the parsing more difficult, so that\u2019s
    a pretty good point. But the space between the last word and the first dot should
    give it away: no space means the first dot\u2019s a period, space means it\u2019s
    the beginning of an ellipsis. As in jupiterboy\u2019s \u201CGranpa\u201D examples
    above, which also show different spacing after.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, but that assumes
    that as the reader you know what editorial convention the editor has used. I still
    think it is clearer to make the spacing between the ellipsis and any periods slightly
    bigger (or smaller) than the spacing between dots in the ellipsis (if you insist
    on using them at all). I prefer to simply use the ellipsis character, even if
    I am connecting parts of a quote that ran over two sentences. I think the alternative
    can be at best ugly, and at worst confusing for the reader.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-24 09:52:12'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: I'm sure many of you don't like all the characters in the Latin alphabet.
    They make kerning hard, and some of them are downright ugly. Plus, the Latin alphabet
    is archaic. Why don't we just make a new one, with characters better suited to
    our tastes?
  created: '2008-02-24 15:00:25'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Now that we have teams we can clarify a few points. \r\n\r\n1.) Chicago does
    have a simple three dot only ellipsis method, which is appropriate for many projects.\r\n\r\n2.)
    Quoted interviews and legal language often require a level of parsing that a simple
    style can't cover. I suspect some people may not have ever set text like this.\r\n\r\n3.)
    Chicago may have not set their own book with the best examples of spacing, which
    clouds and confuses the ideas.\r\n\r\n4.) Fonts built with an ellipsis character
    that works in harmony (equal interior spaces) with ending punctuation offer those
    without the software and those in search of an automated approach a good option.
    (See \"Granpa\" lol example above.)\r\n\r\n5.) Variance in spacing could potentially
    add clarity, but this is specifically not the rule and editors won't tolerate
    looking like dunces to indulge a designer's personal sense of aesthetics."
  created: '2008-02-24 15:58:02'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "If well designed, I prefer the precomposed ellipsis personally.\r\n\r\nFor
    editorial style, it's still not uncommon to see the ellipsis placed in brackets
    for quotes, especially when the source text might include ellipses (and often
    times italicised):\r\n\r\nOriginal text: So\u2026 I went down to the big blue
    store.\r\nQuoted: \u201CSo\u2026 I went down to the [\u2026] store\u201D.\r\n\r\nThis
    often comes up in quoting poetry.\r\n\r\nIf the distinction between period-ellipsis,
    and ellipsis-period is critical to the discussion of a text, I think most article
    authors would prefer to split the quotation even if it's as simple as \u201Cand
    later states\u201D:\r\n\r\nOriginal text: Alabama is in the Deep South.  Long
    ago, the North invaded the South because the South broke away desiring stronger
    state\u2019s rights.\r\nArticle text: Matthew notes that \u201CAlabama is in the
    Deep South\u201D, and adds that the Northern Invasion, where \u201Cthe North invaded
    the South\u201D happened in 1861.\r\n\r\nNote that even in this case the punctuation
    is ambiguous, because I would still quote it as \u201CAlabama is in the Deep South\u201D
    + comma even if the original sentence were \u201CAlabama is in the Deep South
    of the United States of America.\u201D\r\n\r\nSo, I don't think it\u2019s a huge
    issue being able to distinguish the order in a period-ellipsis or ellipsis-period
    combination.  I do feel it\u2019s important that they can be connected with no
    visual break between the four dots.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan
    fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura,
    por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-02-25 23:00:50'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>So, I don\u2019t think it\u2019s a huge issue being able to distinguish
    the order in a period-ellipsis or ellipsis-period combination. I do feel it\u2019s
    important that they can be connected with no visual break between the four dots.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    is in an extended interview format that it gets tricky. Add to this a heavy name,
    and you must attempt to get these details right because the work will be quoted.\r\n\r\nHere
    are two examples that come to mind.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.stoutbooks.com/cgi-bin/stoutbooks.cgi/76420.html\r\n\r\nhttp://news.artlimited.net/news_display.php?id=432813&lg=en\r\n\r\nBoth
    have extended exerpted sections that employ the full range of possible combinations."
  created: '2008-02-26 00:51:40'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Patty: <em>Well James thanks for YOUR take on things but I work in book publishing
    where editors don\u2019t take too kindly to \u201Cmy way or the highway\u201D.
    Chicago and Bringhurst are designed to set up common styles and conventions in
    typesetting that make it clear TO THE READER what is going on. If you want to
    reinvent punctuation, be my guest, but don\u2019t expect your readers to thank
    you.</em> \r\n\r\nI have never sought to reinvent punctuation, only to keep it
    simple. Why do you assume bad faith regarding my methods (why else would you type
    in capitals)? The way I handle ellipsis is aimed at making it clear to the reader
    what is going on in a text.\r\n\r\n<em>...if you\u2019re typesetting a novel for
    folks to read, creating your own punctuation styles will only confuse, distract,
    and annoy your readers.</em>\r\n\r\nI've not done novels or story anthologies,
    but for jobs where I've set prose fiction including dialog with ellipses and emdashes
    I quizz readers about the clarity of the typesetting. It turns out very few readers
    are even aware of any difference between ellipsis and emdash. For dialog the two
    marks have much the same effect and meaning as far as readers can tell.\r\n\r\n<em>An
    ellipsis has a VERY different function editorially than an em-dash. The function
    of an ellipsis is to indicate omission in cited text. Yes, it is used as well
    to indicate a pause or hesitation in thought or trailing off, but those are not
    its primary function. In those latter cases it could perhaps be replaced with
    another character. But in its primary function it must be used as is.</em>\r\n\r\nWhy
    is ellipsis only supposed to be used to indicate omission in cited text? What
    about omission in other kinds of text? And if that's the editorial function of
    an ellipse, please define the editorial function of an emdash.\r\n\r\ncharles_e:
    <em>I\u2019m sure many of you don\u2019t like all the characters in the Latin
    alphabet. They make kerning hard, and some of them are downright ugly. Plus, the
    Latin alphabet is archaic. Why don\u2019t we just make a new one, with characters
    better suited to our tastes?</em>\r\n\r\nI love all of the characters in the Latin
    alphabet. It could be improved a great deal however, if only the world would allow
    type designers to do so.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-02-26 12:28:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: .
  created: '2010-05-08 14:02:10'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I hope you guys don't mind me reviving this interesting oldie, but I have
    to add that it seems quite US-centric. To add an international perspective: Putting
    spaces of any kind into the 3 dot sequence is not commonly done over here \u2013
    I would say not in continental Europe, but at least not in Switzerland. Perhaps
    as a consequence, the unspaced \"...\" sequence does not usually seem too tight
    to me. \r\nSo there is a cultural aspect to this, and one interesting thing that
    follows is that ellipses in American-designed fonts often seem looser to me than
    the ones in European fonts, and sometimes distractingly loose. When designing
    for an international market these regional differences might be interesting to
    consider."
  created: '2010-05-08 15:24:38'
- author:
    name: Stephan Kurz
    picture: 110847
  body: "Can anyone confirm that there was no \u201Cellipsis character\u201D before
    the advent of DTP as mentioned in one of the posts above? I saw what appears to
    be three dots on one key at a linotype keyboard (see http://www.flickr.com/photos/atoach/5944029870/,
    bottom right) -- but cannot say if that key is really for typing an ellipsis character
    (it has a different shape than the other keys). "
  created: '2012-01-15 13:10:58'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "First of all, I don\u2019t think that\u2019s a Linotype keyboard. Looks more
    like Monotype, and (as someone already pointed out there) it has a Monotype label.\r\n\r\nSecondly,
    I believe that key is for a three-dot leader. If you look at the same position
    in the left hand compartment, below the period, you\u2019ll also see a two-dot
    leader.\r\n\r\nI suppose a three-dot leader (presumably three-to-em) could have
    been used in place of an ellipsis \u2014 I don\u2019t know if that was common
    practice in Monotype composition or not. If so, then I suppose I\u2019ll have
    to stand corrected."
  created: '2012-01-16 14:05:36'
- author:
    name: Stephan Kurz
    picture: 110847
  body: "Kent, thanks for the idea with the dot leader (and for being with me helping
    revive \u201Cthis interesting oldie\u201D, as Nina put it above [back in 2010!]).
    Somewhere I came across this already, but I did not see its significance then.
    Maybe part of the aversion against using the ellipsis character is connected with
    the wideness of an em-wide dot leader that had been used on Monotype machines
    to avoid manual spacing (and several keystrokes). This makes sense, also when
    comparing different printed matter from the late 19th and early 20th century,
    where books with Monotype mentioned in the imprint do feature exceptionally wide
    ellipsis marks. I have yet to check that again, but wanted to share that possible
    connection between dot leaders and ellipses \u2013 or, rather, this confusion
    in the representation of two different functions. "
  created: '2012-01-18 23:13:15'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: Has anyone thought of using the text from spam forum posts as a source of
    lorem ipsum?
  created: '2012-03-02 10:48:04'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Cool idea for a typeface specimen actually. :)
  created: '2012-03-02 12:15:36'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Speak of the devil, and, after a pregnant pause, he shall appear.
  created: '2012-11-14 03:41:23'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: I'm seriously considering an ellipsis with only 2 periods..
  created: '2012-11-14 22:57:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Why, are you expecting another period soon?
  created: '2012-11-15 00:17:34'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: I just don't see the point in the third one.
  created: '2012-11-15 01:04:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You need to distinguish between font design and writing system design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-15 01:49:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: 'Oh, so it wasn''t menopause, Ryan? '
  created: '2012-11-15 04:19:28'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: 'Well, now that the big spam post has been deleted, my previous comment doesn''t
    make sense anymore. '
  created: '2012-11-15 12:08:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Which is worse?
  created: '2012-11-15 15:26:26'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Writing systems are not set in stone, or steel, or brass, or binary code.
  created: '2012-11-15 21:45:38'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "<blockquote>Writing systems are not set in stone</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNo,
    [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rosetta_Stone|that would just be silly]]."
  created: '2012-11-15 21:51:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ryan, I'm a big fan of reforming writing systems (see my Alphabet Reform
    work). But you can't just remove a dot from an ellipsis in a font and think you're
    doing type design; you have to think deeply about strategy at the level of the
    writing system, and <em>then</em> make fonts based on such a foundation.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-15 22:12:04'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Your method allows no innovation, Hrant.  In a world where everyone abbreviates
    everything, and where they consistently uses new combinations of old symbols (smileys)
    to express themselves, shortening an ellipsis from 3 periods to 2 strikes me as
    not only unradical, but inevitable.
  created: '2012-11-15 23:13:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I love innovation, but it either has to be subtle enough to escape conscious
    rejection, or it has to be in-your-face. And most of all -like I said- it has
    to be on the correct level (writing system versus font).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-15 23:35:10'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "My 2 period ellipsis is both subtle and in your face.\r\n\r\nTo the average
    person it is subtle. To the average type designer, it is in your face."
  created: '2012-11-16 00:16:15'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "In casual writing like emails and text messages, most folks use a series
    of periods to create an ellipsis, and the number of periods will vary depending
    on their mood and how fast they're typing. So I don't think using 2 instead of
    3 would even be noticed.   \r\n\r\nIn printed pieces, one problem with a 2-period
    ellipsis is that it may just look like a typo, a double period."
  created: '2012-11-16 01:18:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yup, two is not enough.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-16 01:35:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: What is so tough about using 3 periods?  What is gained by only using 2?
  created: '2012-11-16 01:47:44'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: How long until someone decides to repurpose the Unicode two-dot leader as
    a brand-spanking new two-dot ellipsis?
  created: '2012-11-16 10:33:29'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "Ryan: Your two-stop ellipsis is a fine abbreviation. As an abbreviation,
    however, it needs to be followed by a period.\r\n\r\n - Herb"
  created: '2012-11-17 01:53:04'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: ha ha! God catch, HVB!
  created: '2012-11-17 01:56:44'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: Have any of you made a face that uses opentype substitutions to replace three
    periods in a row with an ellipsis?
  created: '2012-11-17 16:20:15'
- author:
    name: Stephan Kurz
    picture: 110847
  body: "Speaking of two-dot ellipses, that is not a completely new idea. \r\nGerman
    poet <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stefan_George\">Stefan George</a>
    used that at the turn to the 20th century to distinguish his way of keeping his
    verse open in a more \u201Cclosed\u201D way, famously mocked by Theodor W. Adorno
    in his essay \u201CSatzzeichen\u201D. \r\nA digitised version of the font George
    had made in order to keep his poetry in line with his stylized \u201Chandwriting\u201D,
    and including a two-dot ellipsis, is available <a href=\"http://www.textkritik.de/technik/stefan_george_schrift_engl.htm\">from
    the Institut f\xFCr Textkritik, Heidelberg</a> (and another one, with serious
    flaws, from <a href=\"http://www.p22.com/ihof/stgschrift.html\">IHOF/P22</a>,
    for a discussion of said flaws, see <a href=\"http://www.textkritik.de/schriftundcharakter/sundc020george.htm\">my
    critique [German]</a>) . "
  created: '2012-11-24 11:55:02'
date: '2008-02-20 16:23:05'
node_type: forum
title: Ellipsis style

---
