---
author:
  name: Double Elephant
body: "Hi there,\r\nI'm doing a quick survey to ask, 'what was your first book about
  typography?' \r\nParticularly, which books were on your first year (freshman) university/college/apprenticeship
  reading list?  And which of these was the first that you bought, read, and referred
  to early on in your typographic education.\r\n\r\nFor me it was James Felici's Complete
  Manual of Typography.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Double Elephant
  body: "PS I realise there are other posts regarding 'books for newbies', 'best books
    on typography' and, of course, the 'Typographic Triumvirate'. But I'm really after
    the name of your first book, not your/the best. \r\n\r\nAnswers on a postcard!\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-20 11:59:43'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Erik Spiekermann and EM Ginger's <em>Stop stealing sheep and find out how
    type works.</em>
  created: '2008-02-20 12:15:11'
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Basic-Typography-Design-James-Craig/dp/0823004511\"><em>Basic
    Typography: A Design Manual</em></a> by James Craig.\r\nRequired reading before
    I began college \u2013 <cite>does exactly what it says on the tin!</cite> Certainly
    not one for igniting <em>inspirado</em>."
  created: '2008-02-20 12:16:17'
- author:
    name: Double Elephant
  body: "Thanks Dan and Conor. \r\n\r\n> Certainly not one for igniting inspirado\r\n\r\nNo
    \u2013 understandably.\r\n\r\nAs a matter of interest, when you do offer the name
    of your first book, it would be great if, like Conor, you could offer a few words
    about its impact on you and your peers. \r\n\r\nDid many of your peers buy/read/borrow
    the same book? \r\nWhat was the general class consensus? \r\nWere you in a minority?
    \r\nDid it inspire you to read more? Or did it bring on a yawn?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-20 13:46:27'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "I believe I bought both Bringhurst's <em>The Elements of Typographic Style</em>
    and Craig's <em>Designing with Type</em> at the same time in the RISD bookstore,
    but I only take one with me wherever I go. Guess which one ;-) .\r\n\r\nEDIT:
    Per Ryan's request, I'll make it more explicit. I had been into type for several
    months before buying Bringhurst, but as soon as I sat down with it, I knew I was
    passionate about what it detailed. Just one of those classics (if I can call it
    that after only two years). Craig was certainly not bad, but I read it after reading
    most of Bringhurst, and there wasn't too much new information in there. Some practical
    knowledge, though, and a better introduction to identifying common typefaces than
    Bringhurst."
  created: '2008-02-20 13:52:34'
- author:
    name: Manlio Napoli
    picture: 111362
  body: <em>Stop stealing sheep and find out how type works</em> was my first too.
  created: '2008-02-20 14:05:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The first book that I bought on typography was in 1967, \"Typographie\" by
    Emil Ruder. It was not available until a year after I graduated from design school
    but my typography professor was a student of Ruder so his teachings were part
    of our curriculum before the book was published. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-20 14:15:50'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Either Bringhurst or S. Carter's <em>Twentieth-Century Type Designers</em>
    -- can't remember which.
  created: '2008-02-20 14:20:41'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Stop Stealing Sheep.
  created: '2008-02-20 14:22:28'
- author:
    name: Double Elephant
  body: "In addition to this post, I'd like to post the same question on another forum
    for designers, which isn't so obviously for typophiles. \r\nCan anyone recommend
    such a forum? "
  created: '2008-02-20 14:28:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '<em>Types of Typefaces</em> (1967) by J. Ben Lieberman.  '
  created: '2008-02-20 14:29:59'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: I don't remember the exact title, but it was a grim technical textbook on
    how-to's. I still remember my excitement at first letterspacing and leading!
  created: '2008-02-20 16:41:31'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Type and Typography: The Designer\u2019s Type Book, Revised Edition by Ben
    Rosen\r\n\r\nI had jobs though before school so I had (and still do) a Linofilm
    by Typographics sample book."
  created: '2008-02-20 16:57:40'
- author:
    name: nora g
    picture: 113099
  body: 'Ursache und Wirkung: ein typografischer Roman (1984)  by Erik Spiekermann'
  created: '2008-02-20 17:38:05'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.typografie.de/verlagsverzeichnis/typografie/474-3.html\">Hans
    Peter Willberg, Friedrich Forssman: <em>Erste Hilfe in Typografie. Ratgeber f\xFCr
    Gestaltung mit Schrift</em></a>"
  created: '2008-02-20 17:42:35'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "I got my one 1972 and I wrote already about it.\r\nMay be you guys cannot
    read it, because its written in german. Please forgive me that I'm too tired to
    tranlate it now \u2014 but: there is a picture included:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.bleisetzer.de/cms/front_content.php?idcat=58&idart=804\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n_______________________________________________\r\n\u201EIch
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben...\u201C"
  created: '2008-02-20 19:13:25'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "In 1973, I had just gotten my journeyman's card as a hot-metal hand compositor.
    I had worked as an apprentice comp for 5 years. Though I had never read anything
    about \"typography,\" I was excited about setting type for books. That summer
    I spent 5 weeks at the Vermont farm of the great type teacher Ray Nash. I read
    both volumes of Updike's \"Printing Types\" and talked with Ray and the handful
    of other students about what I had read.\r\n\r\nWhen I had time I watched the
    Watergate hearings on TV.\r\n\r\nDiscovering the richness of typography in Updike
    made me go back to college, finish the final semester for a BA in English, and
    then commit to becoming a typographer. Here I yam, 35 years later.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2008-02-20 19:43:23'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "35 years, Will...\r\nTell me: Is this real? What is real?? Am I real???\r\nOh
    Jeeee... 35 years.\r\n\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n_______________________________________________\r\n\u201EIch
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben...\u201C"
  created: '2008-02-20 20:21:12'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Tschichold's <em>Meisterbuch der Schrift</em>, and a bit later <em>The Form
    of the Book</em>. Then at university, yet another Tschichold. He did have quite
    an impact, but meanwhile I have more sympathy for less dogmatic authors like Paul
    Renner. No idea why I prefer dead authors, though ...\r\n\r\nIt's funny to see
    that the books indicate how old its readers are. <em>Stop Stealing Sheep</em>
    readers must be the younger Typophilers.&nbsp;&nbsp;:D\r\n\r\nbleisetzer -- <cite>but:
    there is a picture included</cite>\r\n\r\nNice, I have one too!\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-20 20:35:21'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I don't remember which order they came in, but the required reading when
    I was studying type and design in college in the mid-1970s was:\r\n\r\nTypography,
    by Emil Ruder\r\nAsymmetric Typography, by Jan Tschichold\r\nDesign With Type,
    by Carl Dair"
  created: '2008-02-20 20:36:42'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "The TeXBook, by Donald Knuth.\r\n\r\nNot really a general typography book,
    being specifically for the typesetting of mathematics, but it carried a lot of
    typographic information."
  created: '2008-02-20 20:38:18'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: ">Stop Stealing Sheep <em>readers must be the younger Typophilers.</em>\r\n\r\nHmmm.
    But not <strong>so</strong> young. Wasn't the book first published in 1991 or
    1992? (I bought mine albeit much later, in 1998\u2026)"
  created: '2008-02-20 21:23:03'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: I honestly can't remember for certain, but I think it was <em>Stop Stealing
    Sheep</em>. Though the first book I bought of my own accord was Bringhurst's <em>The
    Elements of Typographic Style</em>.
  created: '2008-02-20 22:25:58'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: Bringhurst.
  created: '2008-02-20 22:27:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AT_6203.jpg]\r\nI don't recall there
    being any typography books on the curriculum of my Foundation course or Dip.AD
    (Fine Art), in the early '70s in the UK. So \"my\" first book about typography
    actually belongs to my wife, who bought it when she was studying art at the University
    of Manitoba.\r\n\r\nI've always been impressed with the asymmetric application
    of the price stickers, and their red bars which echo the bar on the dust jacket!\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-20 22:28:27'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Now that's a bullet.
  created: '2008-02-20 22:31:02'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Nick is so damned hardcore.
  created: '2008-02-20 22:31:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: But now that I think about it (for the first time, it would seem), the grey
    sticker covers up the asymmetricality of the author line.
  created: '2008-02-20 22:41:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "But Nick, 6 bucks for a book is a real deal :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-20 23:38:11'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Elements of typographic style. i jumped in on the deep end...
  created: '2008-02-20 23:47:28'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "There was a little thing I picked up in the late 1980s:\r\n<em>The Mac is
    not a Typewriter</em>\r\nNot so much a typography book, but it was enough to break
    me of typewriter habits before I got out of high school."
  created: '2008-02-21 00:04:28'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Typographic Design: Form and Communication, by Carter, Day and Meggs\r\n\r\nNot
    the most exciting of books, but solid. 95% of the class switched from print design
    to web design after Typography 101 and this book :)"
  created: '2008-02-21 01:18:35'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>95% of the class switched from print design to web design after Typography
    101 and this book :)</cite>\r\n\r\nThat book scared the living shit out of me
    during sophomore year. Now I have two copies."
  created: '2008-02-21 01:40:26'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I, unfortunately, sold it back to the school bookstore.\r\n\r\nBut the book
    set me on a path. I never intended on getting interested in type or typography.
    I went to school for photography, but our school's Visual Communications: Photography
    program required a class in basic typography.\r\n\r\nAfter that first class that
    everyone else dropped, I was hooked :)"
  created: '2008-02-21 02:13:18'
- author:
    name: richardmassey
    picture: 111481
  body: bringhurst, 20th century type, stop stealing sheep, and robin kinross' classic
    modern typography -- which i am quite surprised no one has yet mentioned -- it's
    crucial.
  created: '2008-02-21 04:05:24'
- author:
    name: TomN-CA
    picture: 112736
  body: "Bringhurst, and thinking with type.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-21 04:29:40'
- author:
    name: Thomas Levine
    picture: 112734
  body: I haven't gone to university, college or an apprenticeship. The first typography
    book I read was <em>The Elements of Typographic Style</em>.
  created: '2008-02-21 05:06:14'
- author:
    name: Zennie
    picture: 112349
  body: Mine were also Stop Stealing Sheep & The Elements of Typographic Style.
  created: '2008-02-21 07:02:24'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: "I became interested in type* long after I'd graduated college.  I've done
    a lot of internet research & went to TypeCon in 2006, but my first real typography
    book is \"About Alphabets\" by Zapf, which I read last year.  Since then, I've
    gotten a bunch from the library.  I'm still quite new to it all, though.\r\n\r\n\r\n*I've
    loved type since I was a little kid - I'd pore over books from the library on
    \"Circus Letters\" and spend hours retraining my handwriting to be big or small
    or have two-story a's, etc.  But I didn't know other people liked this and kind
    of lost track of it until a few years ago."
  created: '2008-02-21 07:21:44'
- author:
    name: Double Elephant
  body: "Excellent -- don't stop! With any luck I'll get the feedback from everyone
    on Typophile.com.\r\nDan is right about <cite>Stop Stealing Sheep</cite> -- I
    have the first English paperback edition that was published in 1993. \r\n\r\nAs
    a matter of interest: is anyone here still studying, or in some way in touch with
    current design students? Do you know what is being read Now by beginners? I spoke
    to a first year student last weekend who mentioned <cite>Type & Typography</cite>,
    by Baines & Haslam, <cite>About Face</cite> by David Jury and, obviously, one
    of Carson's books. \r\n\r\n<ul> <li>What are the main titles now being read by
    complete beginners?</li> <li>Perhaps <cite>Elements of Typographic Style</cite>
    is a bit heavy for a beginner, or do you disagree?</li> <li>Do you think many
    graphic design students read <cite>First Principles of Typography</cite> by Stanley
    Morison(?) or are such books now considered irrelevant by beginners?</li> </ul>\r\n\r\nBack
    in the beginnings of my education, I always had the opinion that anything printed
    more than 10 years before wasn't worth reading!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-21 10:43:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>anything printed more than 10 years before wasn\u2019t worth reading!</em>\r\n\r\nStudents
    would take to Morison if he were reprinted in Helvetica. "
  created: '2008-02-21 10:58:16'
- author:
    name: lirmac
    picture: 113262
  body: Before setting my first book I bought Bringhurst and John Kane's <em>A Type
    Primer</em> simultaneously. Kane's book isn't bad, but it didn't change my life.
    Bringhurst did (obviously).
  created: '2008-02-21 11:15:42'
- author:
    name: Double Elephant
  body: "Maybe that's true Nick. Please elaborate. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-21 11:18:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: :-)
  created: '2008-02-21 11:49:59'
- author:
    name: rlynch
  body: '[[http://www.amazon.co.uk/Type-Primer-John-Kane/dp/1856692914/ref=pd_bbs_sr_1?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1203597970&sr=8-1|A
    Type Primer]] by John Kane.'
  created: '2008-02-21 12:47:53'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "The <em>first</em> book I got was <em>inPrint</em> by Alex Brown. It really
    is a great <em>introductory</em> book for those who don't want to start at the
    deep end.\r\n\r\nSome people start with the (Bringhurst) Bible; others start with
    bible stories.\r\n\r\nISBN 0823025446; out of print; you can find used copies
    dirt cheap, unlike Dowding's <em>Finer Points</em> which sells for about $80.
    \ "
  created: '2008-02-21 12:57:59'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>Perhaps Elements of Typographic Style is a bit heavy for a beginner,
    or do you disagree?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt was a touchstone for me. When I was in school
    (not a very good design school) it was all backlash and '70s freedom. There was
    very little taught about classic geometry and structure. Everything was stagnant
    and the Mac was about to hit. Elements was the real deal\u2014it had all the knowledge
    my teachers didn't have, which is exactly what I wanted. I think the book works
    as a read, but also a great reference. I still look things up in it all the time."
  created: '2008-02-21 14:33:48'
- author:
    name: ingap
  body: 'I became interested in type looking at specimens used by my parents. :) But
    the first real book was "Designer''s Guide To Typography", edited by Nancy Aldrich-Ruenzel
    and John Fennell [1991] . It is the special annual edition of Step-By-Step Graphics
    magazine. '
  created: '2008-02-21 14:43:23'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>A Type Primer by John Kane.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt should be everyone\u2019s
    first. Reading Kane cleared up all the confusion I was left with after reading
    the usual stuff. \r\n\r\n<cite>Perhaps Elements of Typographic Style is a bit
    heavy for a beginner, or do you disagree?</cite>\r\n\r\nI tried reading it early
    on and was really confused as to why my professor wanted me reading all this pretentious
    nonsense that no editing department would ever go with. I often use it as a reference,
    particularly for terminology, but as a student I find the advice in it is usually
    too impractical to be of much real value. Professors who insist we read Bringhurst
    will usually see our work as boring, dated, or stuffy if we put the ideas into
    practice. And all three of my design jobs have explicitly stated not to follow
    Bringhurst."
  created: '2008-02-21 15:12:42'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: Well, it is not my first type book, but Edmund C. Arnold was my hero in my
    college days back in the 70s. He wrote several books about newspaper design during
    the 50s and 60s. At that time I thought I wanted to be a reporter ... turns out
    I really wanted to design newspapers, not write for them.
  created: '2008-02-21 15:37:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Gerald Unger's \"About Reading\" is a good blend. Batty's \"Type & Typography\",
    \ and AtypI's \"Language, Culture, Type\" are worthy reads, too.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-21 15:38:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Do you mean \"Ink on Paper\" Don?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-21 15:39:46'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "That could be one, Chris. I seem to remember two or three books by him in
    the Niagara College library back in the early 70s.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-21 15:41:48'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "I too started at the deep end with Bringhurst.\r\nIt was very interesting,
    but after that I needed something lighter - so my next was Stop Stealing Sheep.\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nSince
    then I have aquired and read quite a few books about Typography - some favourites:\r\nLogo,
    Font & Lettering Bible - Leslie Cabarga\r\nCounterpunch - Fred Smeijers\r\nDesigning
    Type - Karen Cheng\r\n...\r\nBut the best bit is actually _working_ with fonts!\r\n:-)"
  created: '2008-02-21 15:43:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Don, Arnold's  \u201CInk on Paper\u201D was the book used often in journalism
    schools in those years for editors and aimed mostly at newspaper editors.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-21 15:55:56'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I showed the <em>Logo, Font & Lettering Bible</em> to one of my teachers
    who was about to start teaching the Design 101 classes after some staff turnover,
    and he loved it. He's the grizzled oldschool graphics guy who polishes the students
    from beginners to advanced, but he's always complaining that he's getting students
    who managed to go through two typography courses without even a basic understanding
    of typography.\r\n\r\nHe's also the teacher who goes the most into logo conceptualization
    and design, so Cabarga's book was a big hit with him. He said he was contemplating
    using that book as the Design 101 textbook. I wouldn't have complained myself."
  created: '2008-02-21 16:19:06'
- author:
    name: Rodrigue Planck
    picture: 109713
  body: "Planck's Typographic specimen, from my fathers hot metal shop\u2026 I was
    4 or 5, smell the lead! I still use it for inspiration today.\r\n\r\nThe Truth
    shall set you free"
  created: '2008-02-21 16:51:21'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "<em>EoTS</em> is definitely too heavy to just throw in a new student's lap.
    It should follow a more surface-level primer, so they at least have their footing
    first. That being said, when I did a brief bit of TA'ing and teaching, I recommended
    to my students that they sit down and read it, acknowledging that they would only
    understand about 50% of it, if that. Then, a year later, they should re-read it
    and they'd be surprised at how much more they understand and how much more they
    could analyze and consider the concepts. Every so often I return to Bringhurst
    (I've read it from front to back about 3 times, but dip into it regularly) as
    both a barometer and a refresher. I don't think I'll ever understand/use 100%
    of it, but I get more and more from it each time. This, to me, is what makes it
    such a valuable and practical tool.\r\n\r\nMost of these books overlap with about
    50% of their content, so I've found that finding the right book is often just
    as much as case of the quality of the text as it is the compatibility of the reader
    and the presentation.\r\n\r\nOther books I've found useful are: Lupton's <em>Thinking
    With Type</em> and Felici's <em>Complete Manual of Typography</em>. Lupton delivers
    the message in a very digestible and skillful manner. She hits on the totality
    and reality of designing with type very well, whereas I like Felici's somewhat
    pedantic nature. It was great to have someone really get down to the nitty gritty
    and show blocks of type with different H&J settings (it's Quark 4.1-centric, which
    is now ironic, as it was published by Adobe). The further irony is that I really
    didn't like the typesetting in Felici's book. But I found the actual content to
    be very valuable at training my eye and mind to recognize subtle differences in
    set type."
  created: '2008-02-21 17:23:27'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "If my memory serves me right, the first type related books I bought were
    The Thames and Hudson Manual of Typography by Ruari McLean and Type & Typography
    by Baines & Haslam, can't recall the order. Neither was for school, and I didn't
    have a clue what to look for in a book on type. \r\n"
  created: '2008-02-21 17:37:34'
- author:
    name: Double Elephant
  body: "Thanks Chris,\r\nThis is certainly not intended to sound rude, but it would
    be interesting to know just how many of your students <cite>really</cite> read
    <cite>'Elements'</cite> whilst still at university? And who fibbed and skipped
    to the end? \r\nDo you/have you ever encouraged self-expression in your typography
    classes?\r\n\r\nA few years back, when I was at university, 'conventional' typography
    was seen as too academic and a lot of students -- myself included, initally --
    just wanted to be creative without a planned, conventional approach (whoops!).
    \r\nI think my entire class wanted to be a Stanley Donwood, or a David Carson,
    rather than an unknown who communicated conventionally! \r\nHowever, maybe that
    was just my experience, and/or perhaps this has now changed \u2013 is rational
    fashionable?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-21 18:08:37'
- author:
    name: Double Elephant
  body: "Hi Mili,\r\nIn which country did you study?\r\nDid you find either of the
    books inspiring?\r\nOne more than the other?\r\nDid you know what to look for
    in a book about typography after reading them?\r\n\r\nSorry -- so many questions.
    \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-21 18:12:51'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "What was exciting for me to read middle of the 70ies was an american magazine,
    a big formatted one, I cannot remember the name, but I think, you guys know it?
    It was called UC&L or so. A newspapier format and paper. With exciting new typography
    ideas (for me). It was the first magazine, what I got (for free!!) by mail from
    US.\r\n\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n_______________________________________________\r\n\u201EIch
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben...\u201C"
  created: '2008-02-21 18:29:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "U&lc was published by ITC and had a very large following. It was free to
    anyone on their mailing list. I still have several copies as wellth the hardbound
    book of specimens from ITC, \"The ITC Typeface Collection\". It is filled with
    the large x-height and tightly spaced faces of the era.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-21 18:45:13'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>...just how many of your students really read \u2019Elements\u2019 whilst
    still at university? And who fibbed and skipped to the end?</em>\r\n\r\nThey're
    just cheating themselves. How can you understand the ending unless you've read
    the whole thing?\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2008-02-21 18:47:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I must admit that I have attempted to read \"Elements\" a few times and just
    can't get through it. I realize everyone on earth praises it to glory but I just
    find it grueling to read. There is tons of information there, for sure, but I
    just can't connect with the writing. I have owned the book for 4 years but avoid
    it over any of the other books I own and I have hundreds of type books collected
    over the past 50 years.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-21 18:54:55'
- author:
    name: Thomas Levine
    picture: 112734
  body: "I sort of skipped the last third of <em>The Elements of Typographic Style</em>,
    but I still got a lot out of it. I think I read <em>Stop Stealing Sheep</em> next
    and <em>Designing with Type</em> third. The first two discussed differences in
    different styles of type, but <em>Designing with Type</em> explained them in a
    more exciting way. Only after reading <em>Designing with Type</em> did I understand
    the major differences among different styles of type.\r\n\r\nOne of my friends
    recently expressed interest in typography after I critiqued her use of hyphens.
    I gave her <em>The Elements of Typographic Style</em> and <em>Thinking with Type</em>.
    I was thinking about giving her <em>Designing with Type</em>, but I didn't give
    it to her, mainly because the pages are big."
  created: '2008-02-21 18:59:48'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "On the topic of current textbooks, the popular books one finds either on
    syllabi or in handouts at the Corcoran are:\r\n1st & 2nd semester: <em>Stop Stealing
    Sheep</em>, <em>Thinking With Type</em>, <em>Typographic Design: Form and Communication</em>,
    <em>Elements of Typographic Style</em>, <em>Revival of the Fittest</em>\r\n3rd
    and 4th Semester: <em>Exploring Typography</em>, <em>Type and Typography</em>,
    <em>Grid Systems (Muller-Brockmann)</em>,  <em>Designing Books</em>\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    also pretty common to see teachers recommend <em>Making and Breaking the Grid</em>,
    <em>Designing Type</em> (for logo projects) and Willi Kunz\u2019s books. Typography
    and grids are pretty important at the Corcoran."
  created: '2008-02-21 19:32:49'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I suffered from poor craft skills during my Typography 1 course. Everything
    was done by hand there, and this caused me to severely dislike the course and
    the subject. \r\n\r\nBefore I took my second semester of typography, I had a six-week
    course in stone-carving, for which the hand-lettering and carving was just more
    craft, which I did not excel at. However (God knows why\u2026) I read <em>Elements</em>
    of my own accord concurrently. Bringhurst's prose (and his magical writing alone!)
    made me fall in love with type. I read the book quickly, in a feverish rush, from
    cover to cover (except for that weird chapter on page proportion). I was only
    19.\r\n\r\nI do not buy this rubbish that young students do not read. Those that
    do not I cannot take seriously! This is just the way it is\u2026 not everyone
    who studies graphic design is cut out for typography, which isn't a bad thing.
    I'm not particularly cut out for illustration myself either, for instance.\r\n\r\nI
    know plenty of type and typography people who read. I've studied at four schools
    in three countries, and the students that were the most into type were always
    voracious readers. They read everything. In fact, we used to try to out do each
    other (\"what, you read that? goddamit! what can I read next that'll be even more
    impressive?\"). "
  created: '2008-02-21 19:49:58'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "My very first book about typography was The Lettering Book by Noelene Morris.
    I started using it from when I was about 7, and stopped using it when I was about
    12 (we stopped doing 'title pages' in our exercise book after that). I'm pretty
    sure that I still have it somewhere. Ah, the memories!\r\n\r\n\u2014K\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/The_Lettering_Book_4185.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-21 19:54:11'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>Typography and grids are pretty important at the Corcoran.</em>\r\n\r\nMaybe
    that's because typography and grids <strong>are</strong> pretty important. Typing,
    with fonts in a document, you are setting characters in a line. This line is spaced
    in relation to other lines. These multi-line blocks live in relation to their
    pages, and with other blocks, elements, images, etc.\r\n\r\nSounds like a grid
    to me ;-)"
  created: '2008-02-21 19:55:57'
- author:
    name: Freeza
    picture: 114205
  body: "Ginger\u2019s Stop stealing sheep and find out how type works. =)\r\n\r\n-\r\n\r\nwww.nunocoelho.com"
  created: '2008-02-21 19:56:59'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I do not buy this rubbish that young students do not read.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    not that they don\u2019t read, it\u2019s that they often don\u2019t read what
    they\u2019re supposed to, at least relative to their majors.\r\n\r\n<cite>Maybe
    that\u2019s because typography and grids are pretty important.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    agree. I was just making the point that we get the stuff beaten into our heads
    in every design class for three years, while at some schools only a semester of
    type is required and grids are not taught at all."
  created: '2008-02-21 21:13:28'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "<em>This is certainly not intended to sound rude, but it would be interesting
    to know just how many of your students really read \u2019Elements\u2019 whilst
    still at university? And who fibbed and skipped to the end?\r\nDo you/have you
    ever encouraged self-expression in your typography classes?</em>\r\n\r\nNo offense
    taken, certainly. It's a good question. I imagine the number was low, as I was
    not the lead professor and was simply making a recommendation. <em>EoTS</em> was
    starting its first sweep through CMU's School of Design at the time. I was simultaneously
    TA'ing for a Graphic Design Fundamentals-style crash course and teaching 4 design
    apps in 4 weeks to incoming grad students. They were a very serious and committed
    bunch, though, so I'm sure most of them checked it out and those who did read
    it, really dug into it. Because it was simply my recommendation and not a real
    directive, I didn't bother to hold them to it in any way.\r\n\r\nBecause I've
    never really run my own type class in the full sense, I wasn't in a position to
    encourage self-expression. However, I strongly believe that it's far too easy
    to swing the pendulum to either side to the detriment of the other. Some of my
    favorite professors, Karen Berntsen and Karen Moyer (these are the two relevant
    to this topic, not my only favorites) had ingenious ways of encouraging creative
    problem solving over handing out stylistic specifics. CMU was very Swiss-centric
    when it came to style, but in many ways the onus for creativity and style was
    pretty much in the laps of the students. However, it was rock-solid for teaching
    problem solving and conceptual thinking.  If I were to teach, I would put students
    on three parallel paths, intersecting with a final project: 1) rules, conventions
    and standards; 2) free-form exploration and expression; 3) problem solving and
    <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lateral_thinking\">lateral thinking</a>.\r\n\r\nI
    think there's a way to emphasize all three approaches and keep students engaged.
    In the end, the professor needs to communicate a true passion for what they do,
    particularly because graphic design and typography are such a strange brew of
    pedantic rules and heady rule-breaking. This is why Lupton's book is a good first
    step, from my perspective. It's like a friendly conversation with a passionate
    practitioner, whereas reading Bringhurst is more like gaining access to the secret
    manuscripts of the Cult of Typography;* if you don't have some degree of passion
    and knowledge already, you'll quickly lose interest in the prose and minutiae
    and become overwhelmed. I'm sure this is why Bringhurst is not as appealing to
    longtime practitioners as well: much of that knowledge is not particularly novel
    to those who've experienced pre-digital type.\r\n\r\n*Though they're certainly
    only secrets in the sense that most never think to seek them out."
  created: '2008-02-21 21:39:11'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "At school, we began with <em> Thinking with type </em> then proceeded to
    <em>Elements of Typographic style.</em>\r\nBut my real first, was an old Russian/Estonian
    book on typography and lettering <em>\"\u0421\u043E\u0432\u0440\u0435\u043C\u0435\u043D\u043D\u044B\u0439
    \u0448\u0440\u0438\u0444\u0442\" Modern Type by Villu Toots.</em>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/toots_6526.gif]\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-02-21 22:06:41'
- author:
    name: The Don Killuminati
    picture: 113938
  body: "W. A. Dwiggins' <em>Layout in Advertising</em>. \r\nA brilliant little book."
  created: '2008-02-21 22:49:13'
- author:
    name: "Alexandre B\xE9langer"
    picture: 113023
  body: "My first \"type book\" was <em>Le Ramat de la typographie</em> (sorry, no
    English translation, in a word, it's a technical book telling rules about where
    to place spaces and so on). Next followed Felici's <em>The Complete Manual of
    Typography</em>.\r\n\r\nAt University we were obligated to read Bringhurst's <em>The
    Elements of typography</em> (wich lead me to <em>A Short History of the Printed
    Word</em>) and Noordzij's <em>The Stroke</em> (wich lead me to <em>Letter Letter</em>).
    To be sure that we were reading them, our teacher asked us to do an oral presentation
    about the chapter of the week. I do like Bringhurst and do not find it difficult
    to read, but I must admit that I skipped <em>Appedix A:The Working Alphabet</em>
    (don't be rude to me, it's \"just\" a listing of glyphs!). \r\n\r\nBringhurst
    and Noordzij are still in the corpus of the University.\r\n\r\nOtherwise, I enjoyed
    <em>Making and breaking the grid</em>, <em>Grid Systems in Graphic Design</em>,
    <em>Dutch type</em>, <em>Couterpunch</em>, <em>Type now</em>, lots of Hyphen Press
    books and so on\u2026"
  created: '2008-02-21 23:19:17'
- author:
    name: umlautthoni
    picture: 111959
  body: Eric Gill's An Essay on Typography
  created: '2008-02-22 00:22:58'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "If type specimen books count then it was so long ago I couldn't tell you.
    But if it's actual books about type we're after, it was either <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Helvetica-Homage-Typeface-Lars-M\xFCller/dp/3037780460/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1203640679&sr=1-1\">Helvetica:
    Homage to a Typeface</a> or this gem. I don't have a lot of typography books.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/26letters_3926.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-22 00:45:40'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: The first one I bought was Felici's. Coming into typography from being an
    editor, not a designer, I found Felici to be a more familiar language than Bringhurst.
  created: '2008-02-22 04:10:48'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "<cite>In which country did you study?</cite>\r\nFinland, but the books were
    bought in London. The school I went to had fairly limited amount of typography
    in its agenda, and we had our own material. There weren't a lot of books on type
    in Finnish then, not even now.\r\n \r\n<cite>Did you find either of the books
    inspiring?\r\nOne more than the other?</cite>\r\nI somehow found the Hudson a
    bit old fashioned (well, it was older), Type and Typography was more interesting.
    Getting really into typography took time, there were so many other aspects in
    design to learn, too.\r\n\r\n<cite>Did you know what to look for in a book about
    typography after reading them?</cite>\r\nNot really. I don't know if I should
    even admit this, but I only learned about Bringhurst from Typophile. After discovering
    this site my typografical library has grown a lot.\r\n\r\n<cite>Sorry \u2014 so
    many questions.</cite>\r\nThat's ok :)"
  created: '2008-02-22 07:23:22'
- author:
    name: Jim Stafford
    picture: 112503
  body: "Bringhurst.\r\n\r\nFavourite, though it's not really a book on typography
    per se, is the Lubalin biography."
  created: '2008-02-22 09:31:47'
- author:
    name: Double Elephant
  body: "Thanks to all that have posted since I last logged on.\r\n\r\n<strong>Mili</strong>
    \r\nThat's quite acceptable that you learnt about Bringhurst's <cite> \u2018Elements\u2019</cite>
    on Typophile. I think the book is largely referenced in typographic circles, but
    I don't think I have ever seen it in a bookshop here in the UK. At least not since
    its original release. \r\n\r\n<strong>Chris</strong>\r\nI agree, I think Lateral
    Thinking is absolutely crucial. Learning about past and current methodologies
    before using abstract concepts. I think students who have learnt convention in
    the first stages can't help being guided by it in the lateral thinking modules,
    because it makes sense. I think one benefit of lateral thinking, is that it serves
    to show the order and balance provided by well-practiced conventional design methods
    that the student has stepped away from (in the lateral thinking module).\r\n\r\n<strong>Dan</strong>\r\nI
    agree. Reading books/articles/other comes with the territory. Sure, not every
    graphic design student is cut out for studying typography, however, unfortunately,
    many of them want to practice it. I think if you sign up to design books, brochures,
    websites, newspapers, and visual identities or, in fact anything text-based it
    would be foolish to ignore the discoveries of the people who have laid the path
    for you -- to listen to what they have to say before you make your moves. \r\n\r\nThis
    week I have seen two very worrying examples of typography. The first was a conversation
    with a student, who on the one hand told me he was a stickler for typography rules
    and on the other told me that kerning was no longer relevant to designers as \u201CIndesign
    does it for you\u201D, and past technologies (metal and photosetting) were \u2018irrelevant
    to digital typography\u201D.  I recommended <cite> \u2018Elements\u2019</cite>.\r\n\r\nThe
    second was a friend of a friend who sent us an 'e-catalogue' he'd just finished
    for his new employers. The catalogue was in flash, and when we zoomed-in the type
    at low resolution so it could not be distinguished, \"but\u201D he said, \"the
    pages-turning effect is cool\". \r\n\r\nReading is not for everyone, but sometimes
    you have to just get on with it -- it will broaden your mind.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-22 10:16:33'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "smiling emoticon.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/oneline_5321.png]"
  created: '2008-02-22 14:13:17'
- author:
    name: 4G.17
    picture: 114327
  body: "<em>The Elements of Typographic Style.</em>\r\n\r\nIt thins out the crop
    of first years."
  created: '2008-02-22 15:04:07'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026\u201CIndesign does it for you\u201D\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nI told
    a friend of mine he needed to track out some big capitals a few days ago. He thought
    I was talking about optical kerning settings :(\r\n\r\n<cite>It thins out the
    crop of first years.</cite>\r\n\r\nDoes it really thin the herd, or does it just
    turn them into kids who blow off required type classes and will spend the rest
    of their lives using software defaults and system fonts?"
  created: '2008-02-22 15:28:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Regarding \"First years\", books on typography have their place but the instructor
    has the major role to play in how the class is presented and what gets emphasis.
    The students also have a role to play in either their demise or their success
    in typography. If a student does not have the desire to learn and is trying to
    maximize their beer drinking time by ignoring their studies, then they deserve
    to be the chaff which the wind driveth away. I am an old fart and there just were
    not many typography books available in 1962 when I was a freshmen in design school.
    We did not have a text book. We were required to purchase the ATF specimen card
    stack. Everything else we learned from the instructors and by hand-setting metal
    type. The jobstick is a cruel, unrelenting teacher. I wish I had all the books
    now available as a youngster back then but I think we were a dedicated lot of
    kids who took our work seriously. Students today may also be dedicated and those
    are the ones who will succeed. The party-timers will pass with the same exhale
    as their last beer burp and evaporate.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-22 16:49:51'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "FWIW, my first was <em>Stop Stealing Sheep</em> followed rapidly by the Baines
    & Haslam. Unless you count stuff like <em>Hart's Rules</em>. Bringhurst was a
    while later.\r\n\r\n__________________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2008-02-22 16:55:46'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Oh, what the hell.\r\n\r\n<cite>The Design of Books</cite> by Adrian Wilson.
    Then Tschichold\u2019s <cite>The Form of the Book</cite>. "
  created: '2008-02-22 17:38:00'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "Funny how these things oscillate. I went into design because of my fascination
    with computers, then ended up cranking an old letterpress!\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-02-22 17:39:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Tschichold, <em>The Form of the Book.</em>\r\n\r\nThe fact that this was
    my first book on typography while Nick's was Tschichold's <em>Asymmetric Typography</em>
    probably presages many agreements and disagreements."
  created: '2008-02-22 20:20:05'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: "As a student, I started in 1991 with Edward Gottschall\u2019s <cite>Typographic
    Communications Today</cite> \u2014 then an already outdated book (there wasn't
    much to read in France at that time). I found it a useful compendium of people,
    styles and typefaces before \u201Cgraduating\u201D to Sebastian Carter and Philip
    Meggs.\r\nBeing able to recommend something more valuable to my own students was
    my main motivation for translating Ellen Lupton\u2019s <cite>Thinking with Type</cite>
    in French (I was paid a fixed fee for this translation job, so I don't feel like
    I'm squeezing money out of them when I urge them to buy it)."
  created: '2008-02-22 22:10:35'
- author:
    name: Cesar Puertas
    picture: 110665
  body: American Typography Today, by Rob Carter.
  created: '2008-02-22 22:48:31'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "by now you've surmised from my semi-literate ranting that i never formally
    studied typography or graphic design. in school i was entirely focussed on painting
    and animation. i've had, nevertheless, a broad livelihood in motion graphics,
    a small percent of it involving typography informed primarily by my eyes, imagination,
    colleagues, memories, and clients.\r\n\r\nthe photo-lettering catalog was literally
    the first book relating strictly to typography that i opened. i was a teenager
    into circus type and it blew my mind from sheer variety. over the years i've picked
    up a few of the books mentioned in this thread: sheep, manual(s) of typog, designing
    with type, tschichold, emigre, and trendy anthologies : typography now, type club
    annuals, etc.\r\n\r\ni was at mtv in the 90's when carson was mashing up print;
    everybody loved him, but i remembered saville's joy division, and i really liked
    steven gilmore's art for nettwerk. it's been an interesting process trying to
    reverse-educate myself back to foundation and classics. i am humbled, amazed,
    and educated by the posts on typophile.\r\n\r\ni've derived a mandatory reading
    list from this thread. many real thanks.\r\n\r\nsmiling emoticon."
  created: '2008-02-23 01:37:04'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "\"manuel de typographie francaise\" by Yves Perrousseaux. It opened my eyes
    on typography, and made me want to read / learn / practice more and more. 9 years
    later I asked my students to buy it and read it as well. 17 years later, this
    year, in october, I am going to release a typography book at the very same publisher,
    with contributions from Erik Spiekermann, Xavier Dupre, Ale Paul and Bas Jacobs,
    among others.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-02-23 08:28:27'
- author:
    name: Double Elephant
  body: "<strong>Chris H</strong>\r\nIt's fantastic that you've got some use from
    everyone's comments. \r\n\r\nAs a 'bonus' book I would read (if you haven't already),
    <cite>A Short History of the Printed Word</cite> (Paperback) by Warren Chappell
    (Author), Robert Bringhurst (Editor). Chappell slipped-up on some of the dates
    and used <em>far too many</em> long words, but Bringhurst definitely made the
    new addition more accurate and accessible. \r\n\r\n<cite>'Short History'</cite>
    concerns the history of the theory and practice of type design and typography
    -- essential knowledge to typographic designers, despite the grumbles of some.
    Admittedly, I wasn't aware of the importance of heritage to typography whilst
    at university; however, the more books you read on the subject, the more you realise
    that, despite appearances, in many respects it's pretty much the same under the
    bonnet as it's always been. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-23 10:36:18'
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: "My first book on typography was Otl Aicher, Typographie. It still shows ;-)\r\nNo,
    honestly it might not be very valuable in terms of a How-To-handbook, but i still
    respect the man (and the book) for his uncompromising approach. And yes, some
    points in the book have to be taken with a grain of salt, but still seem completely
    logical when considering where he was coming from in terms of thought and background."
  created: '2008-02-23 15:30:52'
- author:
    name: writingdesigning
    picture: 112522
  body: "Starting to work as a copywriter in the last days of the photo-typesetting
    era, what made me fall in love with type was not strictly a type book, but the
    Letraset type catalogue. \r\n\r\nThen came the U&LCs - again not quite type book,
    but you made the most of what you got. The first proper type book I bought was
    \"Elements...\""
  created: '2008-02-23 19:10:01'
- author:
    name: Silvermule
    picture: 111376
  body: "From my 1st Year of College\r\n\r\nTypographic Design: Form and Communication\r\nRob
    Carter, Ben Day, Philip B. Meggs\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tdfc3e_4008.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-23 19:50:48'
- author:
    name: weinziet
    picture: 110727
  body: "Digital Type & Color\r\nThinking with Type\r\nthen Bringhurst.\r\n\r\nIn
    that order."
  created: '2008-02-23 22:37:53'
- author:
    name: Hannes Famira
    picture: 110283
  body: "\"Studentenfutter\" by SpiekerErik was definitely my first book on typography.\r\nAfter
    that \"Ausgew\xE4hlte Aufs\xE4tze \xFCber Fragen der Gestalt des Buches und der
    Typographie\" by Jan Tschicholdand then \"Stop Stealing Sheep\" as so many of
    you. After that I didn't own a book about typography until I bought \"Thinking
    with Type\" by Ellen Lupton last year. In art school we didn't read books at all
    (I think...)."
  created: '2008-02-24 01:08:39'
- author:
    name: sihep
    picture: 112339
  body: Armin Hofmann's "Graphic Design Manual" + "Typography" by Emil Ruder.
  created: '2008-02-24 01:20:20'
- author:
    name: popluhv
    picture: 112707
  body: thinking w/type - Ellen Lupton
  created: '2008-02-24 05:15:22'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Designing With type. A basic Course in Typography. James Crag.\r\n\r\n\r\nbefore
    that; Lettraset catalogs.\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-02-24 05:35:10'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-02-24 05:35:55'
- author:
    name: Double Elephant
  body: "BRILLIANT. Anyone care to join in who harks from the days of metal?\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-24 09:29:29'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: '"Typiskt Typografiskt" by swedish typographer Bo Berndal. Available in swedish
    only.'
  created: '2008-02-24 15:01:25'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Hangul Design by Yoon Younggi (\uC724\uC601\uAE30\uC758 \uD55C\uAE00 \uB514\uC790\uC778).
    This is a nuts-and-bolts type design book rather than a general typography book.
    Yoon is the founder of Yoon Design, a leading Korean foundry. This 1999 book details
    the design process of a selection of hangul typefaces that Yoon and his collaborators
    worked on."
  created: '2008-02-24 17:19:45'
- author:
    name: Bubble07
    picture: 114347
  body: "Type and Typography: The Designer\u2019s Type Book\r\nand\r\nDesigning with
    Type: The Essential Guide to Typography\r\n\r\nCan't remember which one was first,
    but I think the Rosen one, they were both part of my first semester of school
    though.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-24 18:09:55'
- author:
    name: Double Elephant
  body: "Thanks to everyone who posted.\r\nAnymore for anymore? Come on! :)\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-25 10:12:50'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: ">>  BRILLIANT. Anyone care to join in who harks from the days of metal?\r\n\r\nI
    already did. Way early in this discussion.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2008-02-25 14:18:53'
- author:
    name: venticaratteruzzi
    picture: 114353
  body: "\"Lo presente libro insegna la vera arte delo excellente scrivere de diverse
    varie sorti de litere le quali se fanno per geometrica ragione\" (by. Giovanni
    Antonio Tagliente)\r\n\"Manuale Tipografico del cavaliere Giambattista Bodoni\"
    (obviously by Bodoni, in the Franco Maria Ricci edition)\r\nJoseph Muller-Brockman,
    \"The Graphic Designer and His Design Problems\"...\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-25 15:31:33'
- author:
    name: Double Elephant
  body: "Will,\r\nSorry, I meant to say 'does anyone else from the days of metal care
    to join in?' It was badly phrased.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-25 18:02:43'
- author:
    name: Double Elephant
  body: Any other current students out there who'd like to suggest any new or classic
    books?
  created: '2008-02-26 11:56:25'
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: A new one i cannot recommend enough is Richard Sennett, The Craftsman. Not
    a book about typography, but generally about work ethics, work morale and related
    problems, and an attitude of doing something for the sake of itself (put very
    simply). I find it more enlightening and thought-provoking than 20 kgs of your
    average graphic design/typography books.
  created: '2008-02-27 14:42:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...doing something for the sake of itself (put very simply)\"\r\n\r\nBut
    put very well and perfect for type design.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-27 15:44:43'
date: '2008-02-20 11:52:14'
node_type: forum
title: 'A SURVEY: What was your first book about typography?'

---
