---
author:
  name: David Rault
  picture: 112608
body: "my fellow typophiles,\r\n\r\nwould you consider it pertinent to say that there
  is a 'stylistic relationship' between Avenir (Frutiger, 1988) and Gotham (Frere-Jones,
  2000)? \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/avenirgotham_3859.jpg]\r\n\r\nthanks
  for your answers,\r\ndr"
comments:
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: No.
  created: '2008-02-22 12:59:50'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "well thanks, dan, this helps.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-02-22 13:04:44'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Another image:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/avgot_4922.jpg]\r\n\r\nGotham
    in blue, Avenir in pink.\r\n\r\nOf course, I NEVER meant to say that these types
    are 'the same' or to imply fraud etc. I love Gotham, I really do, and I understand
    they are two different typefaces. Though, they share a lot in the design, and
    considering their two very different influences (frutiger claimed being influenced
    only by Futura, and Frere-Jones claimed being influenced only by the vernacular
    inscriptions of New York buildings), it is a subject of curiosity for me, on which
    I wish to have your point of view - I hope that for some of you, it will be a
    little bit longer than a two letters word.\r\n\r\nthanks,\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-02-22 13:16:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "On the caps your samples are significantly different. Gotham follows the
    19th century pattern of relatively equal widths to the caps, whereas Avenir follows
    more the classical roman model, following being more influenced by Futura, which
    it is a an variation of. The lower cases of the two are more similar--and both
    are similar to Futura, though with shorter extenders in the case of Avenir, and
    much shorter in the case of Gotham. One of the points of Avenir vs Futura was
    to have the two story a, which Gotham also has. \r\n\r\nI suspect that if  you
    look at the lower cases of all 'geometric' sans, the differences are going to
    be even more subtle than is usually the case between typefaces. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-22 13:16:27'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Why the scare quotes around "stylistic relationship"? Is there a question
    behind the question?
  created: '2008-02-22 13:22:34'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "William: thanks, that was interesting. I am actually looking at a lot of
    geometric sans, and the differences are not that subtle: the lower case caracters
    of Kabel, Avant Garde, Futura... are really very different. the thing is, i can
    clearly see the influence of late 19th grotesques in gotham, but i tend to also
    see it in Avenir, especially in the caps, altogether with the obvious spirit of
    futura et al; if so, how come i can not find any reference about this in frutiger's
    interviews and books? or, ami i seeing something where there is nothing? \r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-02-22 13:27:19'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "ellason: no, not at all, it's just because the way i say it sounds weird,
    but at the time i didnt know how to say it in a better way.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-02-22 13:28:21'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "Is there a \u2019stylistic relationship\u2019, but yes of course. What is
    a \u2019stylistic relationship\u2019 exactly? There is a stylistic relationship
    between a great many type designs, with most new designs building on the sum of
    designs past."
  created: '2008-02-22 13:29:28'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: Avenir is the better Futura, Gotham the better Avenir.
  created: '2008-02-22 13:39:46'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>Avenir is the better Futura, Gotham the better Avenir.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    is absurd. I love and use both fonts. Gotham is more stylish and modern looking
    which is why you see it EVERYWHERE but Avenir is far easier to read for body copy
    and makes less of a statement."
  created: '2008-02-22 13:54:08'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<cite>Frutiger claimed being influenced only by Futura, and Frere-Jones claimed
    being influenced only by the vernacular inscriptions of New York buildings</cite>\r\n\r\nYou
    say it yourself: both typefaces have a common inspiration: Futura \u2014 since
    the Art Deco-ish inscriptions of those buildings were direct derivations of Futura
    and the US-made rip-offs thereof. \r\nFutura IS off course one of the most influentual
    typefaces of the modern age.\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-02-22 14:06:02'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: I agree they're all their own types (within geo sans confines), but I was
    poking a little fun at herr frutiger's statement on avenir. Yes I can see the
    difference.
  created: '2008-02-22 14:16:04'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: "And Dan...\r\n\r\ndon't be so obtuse. I'm sure we're all very impressed at
    how you can pick out the realistically minor differences between fonts..."
  created: '2008-02-22 14:20:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "David, [[http://www.linotype.com/90672/avenirnext-family.html#|this summary
    from the paragraph]] on Avenir Next is pretty revealing. Evidently Frutiger's
    'brief' was to \"humanize\" Futura, which involved introducing a bit of contrast
    between horizontal and vertical, as well has the \"a\". \r\n\r\n>Art Deco-ish
    inscriptions of those buildings were direct derivations of Futura\r\n\r\nBert,
    this is not correct. Visually the NYC stuff that was the basis for Gotham is more
    19th century (not Art Deco), having the equal width caps. IIRC, think there is
    little, if any of the early stuff on buildings with a lower case. Paul Shaw, in
    a tour of NYC lettering I went on, organized by the TDC, explained that there
    were architect's books with models for lettering on buildings, which were done
    by sign painters and stone carvers. That's why the similarity of lettering which
    became the basis of Gotham. But a lot of it pre-dates Futura. \r\n\r\nAlso Futura
    really has the wide (square) and narrow (half square) proportions of Trajan caps,
    so that can't be the model for Gotham caps. \r\n\r\nNow looking again at the samples
    here, you can see that Gotham lower case follows the model more of Futura, as
    the vertical stems are thicker in comparison. The greater modulation may be why
    Patty sees Avenir working better in text, but Gotham as having more punch.  \r\n\r\nEdit.
    [[http://typography.com/fonts/font_history.php?historyItemID=1&productLineID=100008|Here]]
    in the essay on the origins of Gotham, Frere-Jones says that there was traditionally
    no lower case. He says that his models only go back to the 30s. But in any case
    the even width style of Caps is 19th century, not Futura. \r\n"
  created: '2008-02-22 14:30:43'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "<cite>Avenir is the better Futura</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's asinine. Avenir is
    rather run of the mill, where as Futura is a towering modernist masterpiece."
  created: '2008-02-22 17:31:16'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: I see Gotham as responding to the fashion now for Gill-derived letterforms,
    especially the cap M whose center stops short of the baseline. Both families are
    very stylish and legible; the only problem with Avenir is its perverse refusal
    to go all the way on weights, whereas Gotham does cover the weight range properly.
    But if I had to choose just one to buy, it would be Avenir, the single most stylish
    and legible sans serif on the market.
  created: '2008-02-22 19:43:12'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Does [[http://www.linotype.com/90672/avenirnext-family.html|Avenir Next]]
    somehow skimp on weights? Gotham has a couple more, but mostly additional light
    weights. \r\n\r\nGill almost never worked in any kind of mechanistic idiom. Gotham
    overtly features mechanistic, industrial features. H+F-J acknowledge the \"Mathematical
    reasoning of the draftsman\" in their exclusively American models, rather than
    the sensibility of a calligrapher and stonecarver (which Gill was first and foremost).
    Gill's lettering has always held a very specifically British style, a tradition
    he learned from stonecarvers and calligraphers in the UK. His background and output
    were very regional, and continue to be very recognizable. Not sure how you can
    make a very clear connection between Gill and Gotham. I think you may have stumbled
    on the only commonality: The M. \r\n\r\nOne thing to point out about Avenir: Adrian
    Frutiger has a very recognizable tendency to draw a wide, flat-footed, cap A with
    a low crossbar. In all his sans and most of his serif designs this wide shape
    appears. Along with his also typical wide a, it can push Avenir stylistically
    away from the highly proportional style of Futura (its predecessor) towards more
    of the wide, square style of Gotham (and Proxima, and Slate, somewhat)."
  created: '2008-02-22 20:15:47'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>David, this summary from the paragraph on Avenir Next is pretty revealing.
    Evidently Frutiger\u2019s \u2019brief\u2019 was to \u201Chumanize\u201D Futura,
    which involved introducing a bit of contrast between horizontal and vertical,
    as well has the \u201Ca\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nWilliam, could you direct me more specifically
    to that language? I can't find it in the link."
  created: '2008-02-22 22:56:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Sorry, there are several places on the Linotype site, and the word 'humane'
    or 'humanize' is not in that one. [[http://www.linotype.com/294-13421/interviewwithafrutiger.html|This
    is the most extensive discussion]] that guess I remembered. There he uses the
    word 'humane'. It has fascinating detail on how and why he changed Futura to make
    Avenir. It concludes:\r\n\r\n\"Avenir\u2122 is intended to be nothing more nor
    less than a clear and clean representation of modern typographical trends, giving
    the designer a typeface which is strictly modern and at the same time humane,
    ie suitable refined and elegant for use in texts of any length.\""
  created: '2008-02-22 23:17:06'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "The origin of Gotham are the caps and that\u2019s still its strength. When
    set in all caps Gotham looks far better than Avenir (low waist bowls on R and
    P, even width as Steven pointed out). The lower case was added for a complete
    typeface. The concept of Avenir is much more that of a typeface for continueous
    textsetting from the beginning. And it shows."
  created: '2008-02-22 23:20:28'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "I have to agree with Jan on that one: when Gotham is placed next to Avenir,
    in caps, it looks slightly better (the repartition of weights, the standard wider
    spacing which makes it look more classy, the little adjustments here and there...)
    - but i'm wondering if it will still look better in, say, 5 or 8 years from now.
    Wide, sleek sans serifs are very much in these days fashion, especially in thin
    or light caps, it's a trend we tend to see everywhere (Gotham, Avenir, Verlag,
    Proxima Nova, to name but a few), and I have the feeling that Gotham, if not launched
    the trend, surely helped spreading it, but... is this gonna pass? I mean, look
    at Avenir, the design goes all the way back to 1988, and it was not widely used
    until recently. And when Linotype decided to redesign it, one thing they did was
    to add a light alternative to the package...\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-02-23 08:15:21'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "And by the way, I honestly don't see or feel much of a difference between
    Avenir and Gotham when used in lower case.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-02-23 08:16:16'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: David, take a look at extended text settings of Gotham and Avenir and I think
    you'll appreciate the differences in their lowercase letters. While superficially
    the same, Gotham's large x-height (verging on the Hrant-ian "obese") really reduces
    its effectiveness in long copy. And this is coming from someone who prefers Gotham
    overall.
  created: '2008-02-23 08:40:53'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "marcox, you are right, but these differences, still, are subtle, for me.
    well again, we come back to the fact that Avenir was designed for long copy, while
    Gotham was designed mainly for display.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-02-23 09:28:41'
- author:
    name: typerighter
    picture: 113954
  body: "On a recent trip to the [[http://www.museopicassomalaga.org/|Museo Picasso
    M\xE1laga]] I noticed the initial entrance vinyl used Gotham, but the rest of
    the museum, including captioning used Avenir (beautifully letterpressed I might
    add). As with so many exhibitions the typography stays with me much longer than
    the exhibited work. Might we add [[http://www.foundrytypes.co.uk/foundry_context/context.html|Foundry
    Context]] to this debate on stylistic relationships? B."
  created: '2008-02-24 15:42:11'
- author:
    name: Dimitris Papazoglou
    picture: 113862
  body: "...According to the similarities and the differences between the lowercase
    letters (Avenir, Futura & Gotham) this may help.\r\n\r\nDimitris Papazoglou\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AvenirGothamFutura_3696.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-24 21:17:19'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Subtle distinctions must be adamantly defended, or the whole type industry
    would be in a tangled mess that would take forever to sort out. No one wants to
    see that.\r\n; )"
  created: '2008-02-24 21:50:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don't think H&FJ should be singled out and criticized for what is a widespread
    practice, certainly not if they're following in Adrian Frutiger's footsteps! \r\n\r\nA
    \"subtle distinction\": Gotham's lower case, mining a well-worked vein from the
    1920s (consider it public domain), is nowhere near an issue for a sleazy industry
    where blatant design plagiarism is widely condoned--and has been for centuries
    with little ethical progress-- where the producer of a revival is called its designer,
    and where only the novice appropriator gets called to task--more for callow ineptitude
    than bad intent. If you're a big corporation or have something of a reputation,
    then your professional nuancing of other people's work, or stuff you developed
    that ended up looking a bit like someone else's work, won't raise much of an eyebrow.
    \r\n\r\nThe sameness is fostered by what the market asks for, which is retro,
    retro, and more of the same.\r\nAnd typophiles who harp about how glyphs that
    \"draw attention to themselves\" will compromise readability.\r\nAnd typophiles
    who like nothing better than to discuss good old Garamond and Helvetica, rather
    than anything, God forbid, designed in recent memory. (This thread an exception.)
    \r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nClients often give me the opportunity to be unethical.\r\nThat's
    not the same as asking me to do unethical things, of course.\r\n\r\nPresently
    I'm working on a commission for an agency that wants a unicase version of a well-known
    typeface for its client. The art director hasn't commissioned this kind of work
    before, and more power to him, but he needs advice on the legal technicalities,
    which is what I'm here for, among other things. So I said he could check out the
    EULA, contact the foundry, and see if they could do the job, and that I could
    do it too -- except that I would adapt one of my fonts to be \"similar to\", because
    point piracy and a verbatim copy is illegal. But there wouldn't be a problem,
    as it's a pretty generic typeface anyway.\r\n\r\nOf course, I would have preferred
    if the agency had contacted me upfront before they pitched their client, and said
    \"Nick, we need a unicase a bit like so-and-so\", which would have given me more
    design space, but that would have invested too much in what was, no doubt, one
    of several different creative approaches they were presenting. \r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nEven
    those foundries and publishers which produce a lot of new designs also publish
    some work that is straight-up derivative.\r\n\r\nAs well as criticize conservatism
    and plagiarism, it's good to big up the interesting new work -- so props to Stephen
    Coles and his ongoing \"top new fonts\" projects at FontShop.com and Typographica.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-25 01:48:49'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "Oddly enough my two favorite typefaces. My current in-house job employs Avenir
    for the identity, but I find Gotham to be a more updated version. The biggest
    differance is the elongation in Gotham. The easiest way to tell the two apart
    is the capital M. Lets remember the best form of flattery is imitation. Who better
    to imitate than Mr. Frutiger?\r\n\r\nShall we talk about Swiss 721 and Helvetica?
    or Freeway and Frutiger next? perhaps Filosofia and Bodoni? Mrs Eaves and Baskerville?"
  created: '2008-02-26 04:05:07'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Such a strong coincidence and interesting finding.\r\n\r\nI don't think H&FJ
    were imitating Avenir but ended on a very similar typographic structure by obvious
    reasons.\r\n\r\nIt's interesting how at the regular weight differences are so
    subtle but get accentuated at the extreme iterations.\r\n\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2008-02-26 06:52:03'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<cite>Shall we talk about Swiss 721 and Helvetica? or Freeway and Frutiger
    next? perhaps Filosofia and Bodoni? Mrs Eaves and Baskerville?</cite>\r\n\r\nPlease,
    Chipman, let\u2019s so not go there\u2026 ; )\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen
    BNO"
  created: '2008-02-26 08:10:02'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Well, after a few days of chatting and arguing, it seems that the answer
    is not as clear as it sounds and the opinions are different. I wish I could have
    a word about this with Tobias Frere-Jones and Adrian Frutiger, maybe they would
    have the final word about this discussion.\r\n\r\nAs of myself, I think H&FJ arrived
    to a fairly similar typeface using quite different ways, especially with the capitals,
    but I wouldn't think the same way about the lower case letters, they really share
    way too many characteristics. Anyway, both typefaces are brilliant and have enough
    singular characteristics not to be called \"rip-offs\" or something. I like them
    both, i'd use them both. And I will write two separate articles about them in
    my upcoming book.\r\n\r\nthanks to all the contributors (I mean, those who had
    something else to say than \"no\").\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-02-26 08:28:20'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I see Futura, Avenir and Gotham as being something of a continuum of geometric
    sans design. The middle of that continuum (Avenir) is the sweet spot for being
    unobtrusive and the best of the three for text. Futura is more geometric and sterile-feeling,
    while Gotham is more humanistic but also more quirky.\r\n\r\nIn the same vein,
    Futura has lengthy ascenders/descenders while Gotham has really short ones.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-02-26 20:16:05'
- author:
    name: adnix
    picture: 109591
  body: "Well, as for the original question of being 'stylistically related' I feel
    that to be related, you need to come from the same creator. They definitely appear
    to be stylistically similar, IMO.\r\n\r\nDavid"
  created: '2008-02-27 01:28:27'
- author:
    name: Textwrapper
    picture: 112864
  body: "I can't tell these apart.\r\nNow, everyone, back to work."
  created: '2008-02-27 07:01:07'
- author:
    name: Shanx
  body: "My personal preference is for Avenir. Gotham is a nifty little font itself
    with some micro-minor distinctions but too expensive. \r\n\r\nFor those looking
    for a somewhat affordable alternative that's not a great departure from both of
    these, try Proxima Nova: \r\n\r\nhttp://www.ms-studio.com/FontSales/proximanova.html\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-01 13:34:06'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: Gotham for titles, Avenir for Text.
  created: '2008-06-01 22:48:21'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "<em>\"Gotham is a nifty little font itself with some micro-minor distinctions
    but too expensive.\"</em>\r\nUnless you're talking about the updated Avenir Next
    with comperable weights and styles....\r\n<a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/86599/avenirnextopentypecdformacosandwindows-cd.html\">Avenir
    Next: $1,199</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://typography.com/fonts/font_styles.php?productLineID=100008&cpuCount=1&itemID=200059
    \">Gotham: $397</a>\r\n\r\nI like gotham because I think the cap height/x height
    proportions are better. I enjoy the fact that the caps aren't quite as tall in
    proportion to Avenir. The Ultra weight in gotham does look a little silly though."
  created: '2008-06-02 00:08:36'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: I have used both types and am not a fan. They set wide and I always felt like
    putting minus tracking on them. (But didn't) But than again I like the more humanist
    sans like Bliss and Scala Sans. Its down to personal preference really
  created: '2008-06-03 00:30:56'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "\" i can clearly see the influence of late 19th grotesques in gotham \"\r\n\r\nI
    have found something that may be related, <a href=\"http://www.typotheque.com/articles/my_type_design_philosophy/\">Two
    Lines English Egyptian</a> (1st picture in this article)."
  created: '2008-06-07 13:06:23'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "Andr\xE9, I mentioned your last post <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/46184\">here</a>.
    Very interesting article."
  created: '2008-06-07 22:57:10'
- author:
    name: PedoneRosso
  body: "Hi. New of the forum here.\r\nInteresting discussion on this topic.\r\n\r\nI'm
    in need of an info, though, that someone here might be able to answer very easily:
    I'm looking for a character which looks almost exactly the same as Futura, as
    far a I can see by careful eye examination, but with a straightened capital M
    (very similar to the Avenir capital M). Capital T has as narrow orizontal bar
    as Futura, maybe even a tad more, and lower case a is round as it is in Futura
    (while in Avenir it presents the curly shape on top).\r\nI've been looking for
    it through all my collection but I cannot seem to find the right one.\r\n\r\nThanks
    in advance for any help provided."
  created: '2015-03-26 12:51:09'
- author:
    name: canepiano
  body: "Hi PedoneRosso,\r\n\r\nIt sounds to me that what you're looking for could
    be \"Avant Garde\" (http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/itc/avant-garde-gothic/).\r\n\r\nIf
    necessary, use the \"sample text\" to look at the regular \"M\", \"T\", and \"a\",
    not the stylistic alternates. (Avant Garde has a lot of those, with a slanted
    \"M\" alternative, for instance.)\r\n\r\nIn the realm of the non-typographically
    obsessed, Futura and Avant Garde get confused a lot."
  created: '2015-03-26 23:56:48'
- author:
    name: PJay
    picture: 109541
  body: It happens that I've just noticed Avenir used in two recent books  - for captions
    and titles in 'Dataclysm' by Christian Rudder and in another current book. You
    know how it is - suddenly  you seem to see the same typeface everywhere. ( Now
    I wait for someone to say it's not Avenir, it's Gotham).
  created: '2015-04-03 19:10:16'
date: '2008-02-22 12:48:14'
node_type: forum
title: Avenir & Gotham

---
