---
author:
  name: oprion
  picture: 113612
body: "There is a discussion going on between Russian type designers over the future
  of Cyrillics. The main question, is weather the alphabet should continue on it's
  300 year journey of forced latinization (launched by Peter I) which so far has failed
  to produce a result comparable to the perfection of the Latin form, or step back
  to it's scribal roots and branch off in a fit of free-form evolution to become it's
  own thing. The problem, is that there simply isn't enought variety between the letterforms
  right now, with miniscules being near copies of majuscules, and letters like \u0428\u0429\u0427\u0426
  sticking out like sharpened rakes. What do you guys think?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: It's really hard for me to say, not speaking any Cyrillic languages. What
    do they plan to replace it with? The Latin alphabet?
  created: '2008-02-22 18:49:58'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> There is a discussion going on between Russian type designers\r\n\r\nWhere?
    who? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-22 19:03:24'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Those miniscules are vexing me too. And the kerning. \r\nThere are a handful
    of the Cyrillic miniscules that have forms close enough to Latin lower case that
    the Latin form is often inserted directly in fonts that have both character sets,
    but is this right, or do they need further adaptation?\r\n\r\nOh so much to discuss.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-22 19:27:00'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "I echo David's question: Where is this discussion taking place? \r\n\r\n300
    years is a long period for even an awkward, latinized Cyrillic to gain momentum.
    Is there any official talk of [re-]reform, or is this just a conversation between
    type designers? A few type designers are not going to force a revival of historic
    forms in general use, much as we might all appreciate them. A more complete cultural
    campaign could do it, but these days there aren't many people like Peter I around
    to dictate such sweeping changes. "
  created: '2008-02-22 19:49:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The trouble with the idea of 'going back to the scribal roots' of Cyrillic,
    if one of the concerns with the modern script is the similarity of miniscules
    to majuscules, is that the reason for that similarity <em>is</em> the scribal
    tradition. Prior to the Petrine reform, the Cyrillic script was essentially unicameral
    or uncial, with very little case differentiation per se, only letters written
    larger or smaller depending on context. The process by which the Latin and Greek
    scripts developed bicameral alphabets never really happened in Cyrillic prior
    to the typographic period. What is that process? It is the gradual development
    of a relatively quickly written formal uncial that becomes the miniscule to a
    re-imported classical style that becomes the majuscule. And the context of the
    process is scribal book production. If you look for the parallel Cyrillic context,
    you find small and large letters both derived from the same uncial forms: the
    process has not had time to evolve a more independent formal miniscule, and there
    is no convenient classical style to provide a model for distinct majuscules.\r\n\r\nPost-Petrine
    Cyrillic handwriting, on the other hand, has developed greater distinction between
    miniscules and majuscules, so might suggest a new directions in text type design.
    However, many of these distinctions are evolved from cursive speed, i.e. they
    are essentially 'italic', and existing attempts to adapt them to upright forms
    look awkward to me."
  created: '2008-02-22 20:13:03'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Maybe this has something to do with something:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2022796_5192.jpg]\r\n\r\nMore
    like that over [[http://www.hiero.ru/2022796|here.]]"
  created: '2008-02-22 22:24:49'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "The discussion is quite sporadic and unofficial. Held mostly on LifeJournal,
    in different designer [[http://eldesign.ru/sreda/2007/0131/|articles]] and occasionally
    referenced in  [[http://www.artlebedev.com/everything/izdal/kniga_pro_bykvy/|books]].\r\n\r\nThe
    basic argument, is that the only way to really match the perfection of Latin forms,
    is to adopt Latin. Alternatively, the letters should move away in it's own direction,
    and develop a unique aesthetic. Otherwise, it is often feared, that Cyrillic might
    remain second-best. This is certainly speculative and non-realistic, and there
    are neither the means nor the will to attempts these reforms. After all, some
    of us still lament the loss of \u0463 (among others).\r\n\r\nI am merely trying
    to decide, what would hypothetically constitute the best course of action in an
    ideal world.\r\n\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-02-22 22:35:41'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: 'What makes the Latin alphabet so perfect that Cyrillic designers would want
    to emulate it more than they already do? From a graphic standpoint, Unified Canadian
    Aboriginal has a lot more going for it. '
  created: '2008-02-22 22:44:53'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "\"What makes the Latin alphabet so perfect that Cyrillic designers would
    want to emulate it more than they already do?\" -The fact that it's already quite
    close to it, and thus gets constantly compared and judged against.\r\n\r\nHey!
    What a great lubok!\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-02-22 22:52:15'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: John's perspective sounds very convincing to me but I would like to see examples
    of your ideas just the same.
  created: '2008-02-22 22:52:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "As quirky as Cyrillic is now and as laborious it is to kern, I don't see
    a need to either return to older forms or adopt Latin script as the Czechs have
    done. Three hundred years of use has made it pretty ingrained by now and why confuse
    all current users even more. It isn't an issue of whether Latin or Greek or Korean
    script is better, people just will resist change as readers. \r\nFor me, Cyrillic
    has its own charm and should be kept. I like the way it looks even if it is more
    difficult to design than Latin. That is the type designers problem and we can
    deal with it. Let's not make it the reader's problem just so we can tidy it up
    and save ourselves some work.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-22 22:55:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the perfection of the Latin form</em>\r\n\r\n? The Latin script is not
    without problems.\r\n\r\nSequences with vertical stems are dodgy: so you can get
    some words, like, er, Cyrillic, which go all op art in the middle, and loosey-goosey
    elsewhere, I mean, just how much kerning should there be in C-y?\r\n\r\nAnd in
    many genres, (especially bold and condensed) diagonal lines are awkward--not a
    problem for Cyrillic!\r\nAs an aside, don't those Constructivist-era posters look
    great with all their bold condensed rectilinear letterforms!\r\n\r\nAlso, Latin
    scripts require much more kerning than Cyrillic (or Greek), on account of the
    diagonals.\r\n(Although Ge and Che, and Gamma, can be nasty.) \r\n\r\nI would
    say Cyrillic type designers should continue to be inventive in adapting what they
    have, just as Latin type designers have added a tail to lower case \"l\" and \"i\",
    in sans fonts, and employed the italic (monocular) form of \"g\" in types like
    Helvetica.\r\n\r\nRecently, Greek type designers, with the \"flipped h\" form
    of lambda, have innovated to address the question of \"problematic diagonals\".\r\nI
    believe this was the same impetus that, over time, caused the triangular Cyrillic
    \"De\" to evolve to its present squarish shape.\r\n\r\nThe role of the gatekeepers
    (Maxim and Gerry, you know I'm talkin' bout you!) in recent years has been interesting
    -- it's led to a lot of Cyrillic fonts produced by Western foundries, types that
    are \"correct\" but extremely conservative.\r\n\r\nAlphabet reform has always
    been protracted and political, and given the vast number of players today, looks
    to be evoltionary from now on, rather than decisive.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nIf you
    are holding out the Latin form as being *better* than Cyrillic, take a look at
    the Bulgarian initiative -- IMO, and as someone who has designed both serif and
    sans fonts to the Bulgarian spec, this Latinized Cyrillic is far from ideal, too
    \"blobby\".\r\n\r\nOf the various Cyrillic languages, Russian is the one with
    the fewest ascenders, descenders, and floating diacritics.\r\nIf Latin script
    is held out as exemplary, Bosnian and Serbian produce much better-looking continuous
    \"normal\" text than Russian.\r\n\r\nIn fact, this seems to be more of an issue
    with Russian, rather than Cyrillic per se."
  created: '2008-02-22 22:57:16'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "\"I don\u2019t see a need to either return to older forms or adopt Latin
    script as the Czechs have done.\"\r\n\r\nAbandoning it is certainly not an option,
    it would be a chore, and simply drown in ugly diacritics. The current alphabet
    is quite nifty in replicating the phonetic language with it's one letter per sound
    routine, so it has to stay. Nor, is it prudent to subject the folks to learn a
    whole new glyph forms (the number of people who read books is falling already.)
    But letter styles do evolve over time, and I feel there is still some room for
    Cyrillic to grow. I am merely trying to imagine a possible direction for that
    growth.\r\n\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal Art and
    Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-02-22 23:09:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Perhaps I misunderstood your original question. I thought you were talking
    about adopting a different script, not just evolving Cyrillic into something better.
    Latin has been eveolving for centuries albeit slowly. Cyrillic has had fewer centuries
    to evolve but it has to some degree includint dumping the yat. There will always
    be those who disagree with whatever change is made so acceptance is slow to come.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-22 23:14:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>gatekeepers</em>\r\n\r\nSorry, not the right word. \r\nI took a seminar
    on Cyrillics from Maxim, and he was more of an door-opener, generous in sharing
    his knowledge, and very open-minded about design possibilities!\r\n\r\nBut here's
    what I mean;\r\nIf western attempts at Greek and Cyrillic typefaces were occasionally
    \"innovative\" through a lack of knowledge, now it's more likely they'll be well-informed
    but careful not to put a foot wrong.\r\n\r\nI wonder what Cyrillic readers think
    of western typefaces that make \"mistakes\"? Do they just look ignorant, or can
    they be useful?\r\n\r\nAnd what is the opinion of Robert Slimbach's invention
    of Cyrillic pseudo-Renaissance calligraphic forms in Arno?"
  created: '2008-02-23 09:20:45'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I wonder what Cyrillic readers think of western typefaces that make \u201Cmistakes\u201D?
    Do they just look ignorant, or can they be useful?</em>\r\n\r\ni think it depends
    on whom you talk to. with a recent project of mine that included cyrillics, several
    of the \"old school\" russian camp took objection to some of my design decisions
    and some younger designers outside of russia found the same design to be well
    put together and perfectly acceptable."
  created: '2008-02-23 14:39:44'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: What sort of specific design issues are at play? I can only speak from my
    own experience and imagination, which are limited and outside any linguistic context
    respectively, so I would like to know a bit more about what I'm dealing with before
    I start slinging ideas around.
  created: '2008-02-23 15:49:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Looking at the glyphs you can quickly get a basic idea though. Obviously
    it cannot help but be naive if you are not a reader/speaker; but on the other
    hand I think if you have an eye you can start to see things. Optical issues are
    optical issues.\r\n\r\nI will have to see the \"pseudo-Renaissance\" - that sounds
    interesting/fun/funny.\r\n\r\nThis is perhaps an especially silly idea but I wonder
    if the constructed/techy/wipeout/designers republic approach to latin might better
    be used with Cyrilic. \r\n\r\nPerhaps even more silly, I also what a Chinese/
    Japanese approach would yield if only because Chinese as it began was almost geometric
    and certainly mono-line. And it was a bit unlovely IMHO. The brush forms work
    way better because the tell tale features of the tool offer, as Peter Enneson
    might say: 'salient features'."
  created: '2008-02-23 18:27:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Optical issues are optical issues.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, and getting relative
    proportion and weight right in Cyrillic is more demanding than in Latin because
    of the repetition of similar but not identical shapes. But the biggest problem
    that designers have when they start working with an unfamiliar script is lack
    of understanding of idioms. They see various shapes in various typefaces, and
    they quickly assume that these represent permissable or available forms without
    understanding their specific contexts. So they mix and match forms from different
    idioms. Imagine a designer with no prior experience working with the Latin script
    looking at specimens and deciding that he likes the shape of the y in Bodoni,
    and the shape of the a in Granjon and the little flourish on the p in Gill Sans
    Italic, and then incorporating these shapes or details into a single typeface,
    not understanding that they are particular to certain styles or idioms of the
    Latin script.\r\n\r\nOf the many things I have learned from working with Maxim
    over the past decade, the most important has been this: to see and understand
    the idioms of Cyrillic type. And the benefit I have drawn from this is confidence
    in making design decisions."
  created: '2008-02-23 18:47:34'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I think this would make a fantastic topic for this year's ATypI conference
    in St Petersburg, wouldn't it? :) \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2008-02-23 19:08:53'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "\"I wonder what Cyrillic readers think of western typefaces that make \u201Cmistakes\u201D?
    Do they just look ignorant, or can they be useful?\"\r\n\r\nHere are some of the
    more common mistakes that peeve me a little in western attempts to render Cyrillic.
    Luckily the trend seems to have stopped now for the most part, and the new typefaces
    that are coming out do a splendid job differentiating between the letterforms.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CYR_3807.gif]\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-02-23 19:45:13'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "John, interesting post. This is actually what i was trying to get at with
    this controversial thread now titled <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/38787\">Appropriate
    alternates or an anachronism</a>. Even with your example, i think that a skilled
    type designer could make all the quirky things you listed work. I think this approach
    you describe, taking design elements of design from disparate traditions, is what
    Juliet Shen means when she speaks of <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/39662#comment-243781\">\"Yankee
    eclecticism,\"</a> and we've been doing it in America for our entire history of
    type.\r\nI think my eclectic approach is what caused the rift between Slavic type
    traditions in respect to the Cyrillic I created for Underground. In particular,
    the old school objected to my choice of the trapezoidal shape of \u0414 and \u041B
    for a humanist sans, where tradition dictates that the rectangular shape should
    be used and that for \u0416 and \u041A the opposing arms top-to-bottom should
    be opposites of dynamic/static forms where mine are static (straight strokes)
    everywhere. It seems that these traditions were cultivated within Russia, as other
    Slavic designers are not as aware of them. Some younger designers object to these
    hard-and-fast rules, recognizing these directives as fabricated traditions.\r\n\r\nMy
    impression (and I haven't studied this out extensively) is that there is a greater
    divergence of letterforms found acceptable in display types and lettering (as
    is true with Latin as well) and I wonder if some of these could be incorporated
    into the body of acceptable typographic forms. I sense that many designers from
    outside Russian and some designers within Russia have begun to push the boundaries
    of what is acceptable. Some new innovations will be found acceptable while most
    will be rejected. I'm not sure that a return to scribal forms would be accepted
    after 300 years of reading a more latinized azbuka, but try it and see if it works."
  created: '2008-02-23 21:25:51'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: Ivan, could you explain what you think the mistakes are in the image you posted?
    Do you think none of the forms in the left column are suitable for Cyrillic?
  created: '2008-02-25 07:46:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Ivan's images:\r\n\r\nThe top right is the Bulgarian version.\r\n\r\nThe
    middle right is missing a serif, although if the rest of the typeface were similarly
    depleted, it might be a concept--it certainly seems to go with Zapf's \"y\"s,
    which posed a problem for his plagiarists, who thought he'd made a mistake, and
    put the serifs back on, but he hadn't, because he's German, not Russian, so he's
    allowed to do that! :-)\r\n\r\nThe bottom right is an Asian Cyrillic form, used
    in e.g. Mongolian and Kazakh as well as the one centre left, so both are needed
    for a full set of Cyrillic characters.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-25 08:30:25'
- author:
    name: Henyk
    picture: 111038
  body: "twardoch : ...fantastic topic for this year\u2019s ATypI conference in St
    Petersburg...\r\n\r\nAbsolutely, with the slogan \"300 years of disgrace and you're
    in Unicode\" ;)))\r\n\r\nUpdated with picture:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/300_years_4814.gif]"
  created: '2008-02-25 10:14:55'
- author:
    name: tarbeev
    picture: 114354
  body: "Dear Oprion, your question sounds to me like:\r\nHave germans continue latinization
    of german alphabet launched by Martin Bormann, or go back to it\u2019s scribal
    roots (Textura, Swabacher, Fractura)?"
  created: '2008-02-25 12:10:13'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Ivan,\r\n\r\n\"Abandoning it is certainly not an option, it would be a chore,
    and simply drown in ugly diacritics.\"\r\n\r\nDiacritics are beautiful.\r\n\r\n\"The
    current alphabet is quite nifty in replicating the phonetic language with it\u2019s
    one letter per sound routine, so it has to stay.\"\r\n\r\nYou might be a type
    designer, but you have no idea of linguistics. Actually, Russian orthography is
    anything but one letter per sound. Actually, it is not only utterly bad at replicating
    the phonemes (the Cyrillic letter \u043E stand for at least three different phonetic
    realisations in Russian; \u0445\u043E\u0440\u043E\u0448\u043E -- the first two
    sound definitly unlike the last) on a stipulated by you one-to-one basis, but
    it even _breaks_the_phonemes_boundaries_ in written form (I mean the yotated vowel
    signs. \u043B\u0443\u043A and \u043B\u044E\u043A both end in -/uk/ but start with
    a different sound /\u026B/- vs. /l\u02B2/-).\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nDon't misunderstand
    though. I really don't care, just wanted to put you right, as orthographies clearly
    don't have to be one-to-one phonetic mappings to work. Good example is English.
    It's all just convention, and as long as everyone sticks to it, it works out,
    guys, don't forget that!\r\n\r\nBy the way, that's the exact reason, why I don't
    believe either a script transition (to Latin) nor a glyph design transition (to
    historic scribal tradition inspired cyrillic) will be successful. The reader-base
    is too big. Don't forget, why Peter I's \"writing reform\" was so successful:
    a) he was RULING (even though some might be tempted challenge this, Russia today
    is no dictatorship), b) there was a small reader-base. I.e. relatively little
    number of people were reading and writing yet (at least except for the clergy,
    but we are talking about civil society now; remember, Peter's type style is still
    called \"civil type\" to differentiate from the scribal one). Now, it's more than
    100 million, c) there was a major technological transition. Comparably little
    was printed in cyrillic in Russian previously. (btw. the Peterian cyrillic form
    only comparatively late \"spread back\" to Rumanian (they used cyrillic pretty
    long), Bulgarian and Serbian printing tradition."
  created: '2008-02-25 14:12:06'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: It has been said that Cyrillic lacks sufficient ascenders and descenders,
    particularly evident among the miniscules. Some of the letters have, not knowing
    the proper term, drop-serifs that go below the base line; de has two and a few
    others have one. In helping the letters evolve, would anyone appreciate those
    drop-serifs morphing into "proper" descenders and if so what shape should they
    take?
  created: '2008-02-26 06:18:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick:<em>The middle right is missing a serif, although if the rest of the
    typeface were similarly depleted, it might be a concept\u2014...</em>\r\n\r\nNo,
    the problem with this 'letter' is that it is just a Latin N flipped, so the stroke
    weights are all wrong for the Cyrillic I. Likewise the ka and U forms on the right
    are misused Latin forms. The ascending ka is the least problematic of them, since
    this form is found in some styles (not only in Bulgarian) but not typically in
    text faces."
  created: '2008-02-26 07:00:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Jason, what you call ''drop-serifs'' take a variety of different forms in
    Cyrillic types and lettering (spikes, flourishes, wavy shapes, inverted spikes).
    The form to which you refer I usually call ''spikes'', in part to differentiate
    them from serif-like terminals, because they need to be much longer and heavier
    than serifs. This is one of the most common problems with people''s first attempts
    at Cyrillic type design: they make these descenders much too small. This is so
    much that case the my advice to designers is to deliberately make these descenders
    too big, obviously too big, and then reduce them in size gradually until they
    don''t look too big any more. It is better for them to be almost too big than
    for them to be too small.'
  created: '2008-02-26 07:16:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>No, the problem with this \u2019letter\u2019 is that it is just a Latin
    N flipped, so the stroke weights are all wrong for the Cyrillic I. Likewise the
    ka and U forms on the right are misused Latin forms. </em>\r\n\r\nI'm not interested
    in the fact that these are obviously Latinized forms.\r\nThey are nonetheless
    viable in Cyrillic typefaces, although the reversed contrast of the bad \"I\"
    which you draw attention could be difficult--but if other characters were given
    a similar contrary stress in a purposeful manner, why not? I've designed Latin
    faces with that kind of feature, \"flipp'ed-ness\". But, so far, nothing Cyrillicized."
  created: '2008-02-26 12:06:57'
- author:
    name: podarok
    picture: 114365
  body: "nice to hear from en-US speakers about feature of uk-UA 8))) or ru-RU\r\nI
    think You people have to assign such topics directly to cyrillic professionals\r\n-----------------------\r\n\u0410\u043D\u0434\u0440\u0456\u0439
    \u041F\u043E\u0434\u0430\u043D\u0435\u043D\u043A\u043E\r\nweb: http://my.ukrweb.info"
  created: '2008-02-26 14:12:08'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: There is a certain liberty in lettering outside one's native context. It's
    surprising what one can accomplish when one doesn't know what one can't do. That
    said, I'm just trying to get a little educated here, so as to not be operating
    from <em>pure</em> ignorance.
  created: '2008-02-26 16:53:20'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I think You people \r\n\r\nThose \"Ugly Americans\" John Hudson and Nick
    Shinn!\r\n\r\n>have to assign such topics directly to cyrillic professionals\r\n\r\nDo
    they have the power to change things? Isn't it the case that most Cyrillic text
    is rendered or printed in type designed by Matthew Carter or an anonymous foundry
    person working for Linotype or Monotype? Or are \"Cyrillic professionals\" contributing
    to the mainstream? \r\n"
  created: '2008-02-26 18:04:18'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Ugly Americans </cite>\r\n\r\nIt is probably reasonable on some level
    to want or hope that bigger foundries would employ people who are culturally grounded
    in a given Glyph set. But like any software it is likely that people will look
    for ways of doing thing more efficiently/cheaply especially if they are running
    small foundries. Simple cultural chauvinism isn't a sales pitch.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-26 18:46:31'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\"szszelp\":\r\n\r\nI agree 100% that this discussion, while *very* interesting,
    is mostly fantasy. Type designers certainly don't have the power to enact Cyrillic
    alphabet reform, and in the post-Soviet era, probably no single government does
    either. Even if Russia did it, there are many important Cyrillic-using countries
    that would not necessarily follow suit.\r\n\r\nChanges that are subtle enough
    to be acceptable to current readers might fly, but it would be hard to direct
    such evolution as a process, and it would take centuries to effect \"real\" change
    through ongoing subtle changes.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-02-26 19:06:28'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "So what are we talking about?\r\nThere must be a range of variation that
    is acceptably legible within current standards, though much of that might fall
    outside the realm of \"good design\". The same can be said for any script. But
    does this discussion we are having in any way relate to the discussion among the
    Russian designers? Are there proposals for injecting more variety? Are there any
    samples of the proposed changes we can look at? To choose between progressive
    Latinization and scribal regression seems to be a false dilemma. Why can't Cyrillic
    be its own thing? "
  created: '2008-02-26 19:55:55'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "\"it would take centuries to effect \u201Creal\u201D change through ongoing
    subtle changes.\"\r\n\r\nThats it! That's just what we need, a secret cabal, an
    elusive order of type initiates, caring forth their hidden agenda, passing the
    secret knowledge from one generation to the next, shaping the alphabet century
    after century according to their illusive doctrines! We will see a rise of the
    brotherhood of grim-faced typophiles, infiltrating the political structure, and
    subverting the corporate hegemony.\r\n\r\n\"Why can\u2019t Cyrillic be its own
    thing?\"\r\n\r\nThis is exactly it, the crux of the problem. Can Cyrillic be it's
    own thing while it's trying to mimic Latin?\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-02-26 20:00:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Si: <em>Isn\u2019t it the case that most Cyrillic text is rendered or printed
    in type designed by Matthew Carter or an anonymous foundry person working for
    Linotype or Monotype? Or are \u201CCyrillic professionals\u201D contributing to
    the mainstream?</em>\r\n\r\nThe impact that ParaType has had in Moscow and St
    Petersburg seems to be considerable. In particular, their Cyrillic versions of
    Charter and Meta are apparently very popular and to be seen almost everywhere.
    Adam Twardoch wrote something on this subject after his return from Russia.\r\n\r\nBut
    of course ParaType employ Maxim Zhukov as an expert reviewer, just as I do and
    just as Microsoft does, so the same kind of review and advice is contributing
    to all our designs. [I've had my Cyrillic type designs selected in two Russian
    design competitions, so I'm reasonably confident that I'm not doing anything terribly
    wrong.]"
  created: '2008-02-26 20:23:07'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>They are nonetheless viable in Cyrillic typefaces...</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    Latin Y as Russian U certainly is not. This is a completely different letter (and
    appears as such in some non-Slavic Cyrillic orthographies, U+04AE).\r\n\r\n<em>...although
    the reversed contrast of the bad \u201CI\u201D which you draw attention could
    be difficult\u2014but if other characters were given a similar contrary stress
    in a purposeful manner, why not?</em>\r\n\r\nSure, sure, if one is setting out
    to apply a reversed stress to all the letters as a stylistic effect, then this
    sort of shape of I makes sense. But Ivan's point was to draw attention to some
    mistakes made by some beginner foreign type designers encountering the Cyrillic
    script for the first time, e.g. taking Latin letters and flipping them (the same
    thing happens with R/Ya) without taking into account the necessary shift in stroke
    weight and other details. He's not complaining about people making carefully worked-out
    unusual typefaces; he's complaining about people being lazy and manipulating Latin
    letters instead of designing Cyrillic ones. Thankfully, as he notes, most people
    seem to have moved past that approach."
  created: '2008-02-26 20:30:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I think You people have to assign such topics directly to cyrillic professionals</em>\r\n\r\nI
    disagree, because:\r\n\r\n1. Typefaces have been globalized (Unicode + openType)\r\n2.
    Typefaces are best designed and crafted by one person (or a close team), not a
    committee\r\n\r\nTo get a type design to work well in Latin, Cyrillic, and Greek
    is the challenge, and that can be done by someone coming from any of the separate
    language backgrounds.\r\n\r\nThere is only We people, and we are type professionals.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-26 20:33:39'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<em>There is only We people, and we are type professionals.</em>\r\nDang
    Nick! That's the phrase, right there. That needs a t-shirt or something."
  created: '2008-02-26 21:17:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/51MQN16ZPBL_4783._OU01_AA240_SH20_.jpg]'
  created: '2008-02-26 21:24:18'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Is there, perhaps room for a round-writing style with Cyrillic, as there
    was with the youth-styled Japanese kana of the last decade and a half? As I imagine
    it, round-handed Cyrillic might take on a more Greek influence than Latin. Aligning
    miniscules to a center rather than base line might help too.\r\n\r\nOK, there's
    my next project. "
  created: '2008-02-26 21:27:47'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "Wow, what a great and insightful discussion. You guys are awesome. I am not
    really a type designer, just a regular kind, but the sheer amount of brilliant,
    in-depth and quite eloquently presented information that I find here is both humbling
    and exhilarating. \r\n\r\nThank you!\r\n\r\n/sniff\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-02-26 21:29:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Is there, perhaps room for a round-writing style with Cyrillic...</em>\r\n\r\nThere
    are many styles of Cyrillic <em>writing,</em> just as there tends to be for any
    script, influenced by different writing tools, surrounding artistic culture or
    subculture, etc. There is certainly a roundhand tradition, which corresponds to
    the same development in 18th and 19th century writing in France, England, etc.,
    but I suspect you are thinking of a different kind of 'round-writing' from your
    reference to kana.\r\n\r\nThere are many, many Cyrillic script types based on
    handwriting models or greater or lesser formality. Some are based on specifically
    Cyrillic models, and some are adaptations of Latin script faces (e.g. ParaType's
    version of Excoffon's Mistral and Underware's new Bello Cyrillic-- the latter
    is very nice, by the way).\r\n\r\nBut as in the Latin script, there is a distinction
    made between text faces and script faces."
  created: '2008-02-26 21:52:37'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "The round kana styles I'm talking about are called \"marui ji\" or \"koneko
    ji\". Of the fonts I've found in this style, many have corresponding Latin alphabets.\r\n\r\nexamples:\r\n[[http://www.flopdesign.com/e_font/flopfont/wa.html]]\r\n[[http://www.flopdesign.com/e_font/flopfont/47amayadori.html]]\r\n[[http://www2.wind.ne.jp/maniackers/colo.html]]\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-27 00:43:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "This has some similarity to the kana styles: brush style smallcaps from Underware's
    <a href=\"http://www.underware.nl/site2/index.php3?id1=underware&id2=custom-type&id3=bello-cyrillic\">Bello
    Cyrillic</a>. The remainder of the type is a connecting script.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bello-cyrillic-09_5569.jpg]\r\n\r\nBut
    of course this, like the kana fonts, is a display face, not intended for substantial
    text work in e.g. books or periodicals.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-27 04:17:55'
- author:
    name: podarok
    picture: 114365
  body: ">>I disagree, because:\r\n>>1. Typefaces have been globalized (Unicode +
    openType)\r\n-------------------------\r\nVery nice but it is mean that any globalization
    depending from locales and without them Unicode and Opentype are only new \"gift
    boxes\" for old style fonts with a ugly \"localized\" parts (just look at http://typophile.com/files/CYR_3807.gif
    from <strong>oprion</strong> )\r\n\r\n>>2. Typefaces are best designed and crafted
    by one person (or a close team), not a committee\r\n>>To get a type design to
    work well in Latin, Cyrillic, and Greek is the challenge, and that can be >>done
    by someone >>coming from any of the separate language backgrounds.\r\n-------------------------\r\nUps
    8( ! It is not good! Because <strong><q>one person</q></strong> can`t make true
    Unicode font - just beleive! That person can do some glyph forms for some localized
    tables - not for all of them. And without committee's control - that work often
    ugly, cause <strong>We are people</strong>. \r\n\r\n\r\nAs for example - few \"Unicode
    fonts\"\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cyr_good_5162.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cyr_bad_4766.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bad_cyr2_5595.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bad_font3_3781.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bad_font5_3680.png]\r\n\r\nSorry
    for my English\r\n-----------------------\r\n\u0410\u043D\u0434\u0440\u0456\u0439
    \u041F\u043E\u0434\u0430\u043D\u0435\u043D\u043A\u043E\r\nweb: http://my.ukrweb.info"
  created: '2008-02-27 09:01:09'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: 'I''m not sure of your point. You''ve shown that some Cyrillic fonts, while
    adequate for Russian, are deficient for Ukranian. That is unfortunate but not
    unexpected. You''ll frequently find even more deficiencies in a Latin font designed
    for English tested against requirements of Icelandic or Turkish. '
  created: '2008-02-27 09:16:12'
- author:
    name: podarok
    picture: 114365
  body: "And another \"professional\" `s fonts when glypts from 14pt all good but
    from 12pt - some of them lost. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/unicode_cyr_6481.png]\r\n-----------------------\r\n\u0410\u043D\u0434\u0440\u0456\u0439
    \u041F\u043E\u0434\u0430\u043D\u0435\u043D\u043A\u043E\r\nweb: http://my.ukrweb.info\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-27 09:31:13'
- author:
    name: podarok
    picture: 114365
  body: "2cuttlefish\r\nnope! I saw You \"ukrainian and russian\" fonts that looks
    normal at 12px(example) but lost(or cross-copied - http://typophile.com/files/CYR_3807.gif
    ) some glypts in other sizes.\r\n-----------------------\r\n\u0410\u043D\u0434\u0440\u0456\u0439
    \u041F\u043E\u0434\u0430\u043D\u0435\u043D\u043A\u043E\r\nweb: http://my.ukrweb.info"
  created: '2008-02-27 09:34:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Sorry for my English</em>\r\n\r\nNo need to apologize Andrey, and thank
    you for making the effort to contribute to this thread!\r\n\r\n<em>one person
    can\u2018t make true Unicode font</em>\r\n\r\nWell, <a href=\"http://www.shinntype.com/Figgins_Scotch.pdf\">I
    have</a> (and I'm not the only one--many independent foundries are also \"competing\"
    with Adobe, Linotype and Microsoft in this respect) but I didn't do it completely
    alone, I had some help from the Internet--and technical, aesthetic, cultural and
    linguistic help from other people here at Typophile.com. But I designed and drew
    every glyph.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-27 16:58:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>one person can\u2018t make true Unicode font</em>\r\n\r\nAny font that
    contains a Unicode cmap table is a Unicode font, even if it only contains Latin
    glyphs or even only contains one glyph. So let's presume that we're talking about
    some level of multi-script Unicode character set coverage, of which the most common
    is probably the three-script Latin+Greek+Cyrillic font. A lot of these have been
    made and a lot of them designed by single individual type designers, although
    the best of them, I think, have also incorporated the expert opinion of typographic
    experts in the individual scripts."
  created: '2008-02-27 17:14:56'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Sorry, I did miss that point. That certain characters would disappear at some
    point sizes and not others is truly bizarre behavior that is well beyond my technical
    ability to explain.
  created: '2008-02-27 17:20:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick, lookin good and ready for Spring?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-27 18:41:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>And another \u201Cprofessional\u201D \u2018s fonts when glypts from 14pt
    all good but from 12pt - some of them lost.</em>\r\n\r\nAre you basing this on
    what shows up in the MyFonts preview? This could be a problem with the MyFonts
    database mechanism, not the fonts."
  created: '2008-02-27 18:47:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Yes Chris, I might actually release it!
  created: '2008-02-27 19:12:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I might actually release it!\"\r\n\r\nThe long hard struggle finally shows
    light at the end of the tunnel :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-27 19:29:26'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: back on this, we had lectures with Gerard Unger this week and he gave a lecture
    in which he concisely explained what I think I was trying to get at before, that
    is script reform must be accepted by readers for it to become widely used. if
    something is too radical, readers will reject it and it will not catch on. Of
    course readers had to adapt to the Petrine reforms because those were imposed
    upon them, but i don't think that a cartel of designers would have the same authortiy
    as an autocrat. So although designers may want to "improve" the Cyrillic script,
    whether or not they succeed will be completely out of their hands and any changes
    that might happen will happen slowly as readers adapt to changes. This is just
    my opinion.
  created: '2008-03-08 14:29:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think you nailed it, Paul.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-08 15:01:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bulgaria?\r\nA poster to Typophile described a \"cartel\" situation there--with
    only one design school teaching typography, and a small community of typographers.
    Several type designers have gotten together in the HermesSoft foundry, and are
    promoting alphabet reform with their fonts. (The reform is to use italic or script
    letter forms in the Roman alphabet, which produces a latinized look, with more
    ascenders and descenders than usual in Cyrillic.)\r\nHow much support does this
    have within the country's education system? If Bulgarian cyrillics are being taught
    in elementary schools, that would critical.\r\nThere is also the fact that Bulgaria
    is the only Cyrillic-using country in the EU, so Bulgarian cyrillics could become
    a de facto norm in the EU.\r\n\r\nThat's all I know about the situation, but it
    was enough to persuade me to include a set of Bulgarian alternates in my Cyrillic
    fonts (along with five or six Serbian alternates). These glyphs are language-tagged,
    so are the default when the fonts are used (a) with Bulgarian language and (b)
    software that supports language tagging in OT fonts (that would be CS3--I don't
    know about MS).\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nSpeaking of Microsoft, consistent letter-forms
    were aplied to the whole range of ClearType faces. Nothing radical in the Cyrillics,
    but note that the \"single bowl\" concept of the letter ef is used. Given the
    ubiquity of the Microsoft OS, won't this have an influence in driving out the
    older, double-bowl form? More evolution than reform.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-08 19:04:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>Nothing radical in the Cyrillics, but note that the \u201Csingle
    bowl\u201D concept of the letter ef is used. Given the ubiquity of the Microsoft
    OS, won\u2019t this have an influence in driving out the older, double-bowl form?</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is an idiomatic issue. The single bowl works best in type styles based on renaissance
    humanist models, the double bowl works best in neo-classical and romantic styles,
    i.e. styles with a more vertical axis and stronger stroke contrast. The double
    bowl form is chronologically \u2018older\u2019 in the context of Cyrillic typography
    because the Petrine reform took place in the 18th century and only later did Russian
    type designers, notably Lazurksi, explore stylistically older Latin models from
    the renaissance. Lazurski was a genius who successfully re-imagined the Cyrillic
    script in a new idiom, recognising that re-introducing certain Greek features
    -- the triangular el, the single bowl ef -- contributed to a more distinctive
    and also more unified style.\r\n\r\nSee my comments above about the need to understand
    idioms, i.e. to understand what form is appropriate in what context (which is
    not to say that, understanding the 'rules' you can't break them in clever and
    thoughtful ways, only that you shouldn't break them through mere ignorance)."
  created: '2008-03-08 19:17:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I'm not so sure that understanding idiom is the major criterion here, although
    it may be for faces that fall into the clearly defined historical categories you
    have mentioned.\r\nThere are many Cyrillic faces, perhaps more hybrid, that successfully
    combine double-bowl ef with triangular el.\r\nAnd then there is the De in Futuris
    (square) and Avant Garde (triangular); the influence of Lazurski has definitely
    opened the door for Yefimov to break the rule--but surely in a way that says the
    rule now only applies to revivals.\r\n\r\nIdiomatically, I don't see much difference
    between most of the ClearType faces and, say, Meta (semi-condensed, low contrast,
    squarish), which has a double-bowl ef. Of the ClearType faces, Calibri would probably
    be better with a double bowl ef--the single bowl shape seems a bit round, given
    the squarishness of the rest of the rounds in that face.\r\n\r\nI note your point
    about vertical axis and high contrast being more conducive to the double bowl
    format, but a thin monoline face would also permit the double bowl.\r\n\r\nI suspect
    that in future, Cyrillic faces designed for OpenType may include both flavours
    of el/de and ef, in the same way that several Latin faces include single- and
    double-bowl \"a\" and \"g\", as stylistic alternates.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-08 20:10:09'
- author:
    name: acnapyx
    picture: 113394
  body: "As a Bulgarian, I can say there is not much upholding (excluding the media,
    of course!) to the HermesSoft's idea of such Cyrillics reform. The long-standing
    tradition here is related with the Russian-style typography, which was in fact
    the only choice in printing during the whole \"communist\" period (and I do not
    see this as a disadvantage). Too many books and in fact all newspapers during
    these years were using Russian-tradition typefaces, and this is not going to change
    soon (long-standing habits die slowly).\r\n\r\nIn fact, I see the HermesSoft idea
    as a way of standing some market ground against the ubiquitous Russian fonts.
    But in the mainstream typography I do not see that much usage of upright italic-style
    fontage (excluding smallcase <strong>\u0442</strong>, for which some newspapers
    here use an upright italic equivalent of latin <strong>m</strong> (which in fact
    I find extremely annoying, because of the named above habit). Same goes for the
    newspaper usage of h<strong>\u0442\u0442</strong>p in front of hyperlinks, which
    often happens here. Well, this is a matter of personal taste, of course. \r\n\r\nIMHO
    the important problem in Bulgarian typography is that too many western - and Russian
    - typographers do not pay attention is the Bulgarian equivalent of possession
    pronoun \"hers\" - the <strong>accented smallcase \u0438</strong> (which is not
    the same as <strong>ugrave</strong>). Only a few typefaces include such glyph
    (<em>namely the HermesSoft ones</em>).\r\n\r\nRegarding the Nick's comment: rven
    if there are \"Bulgarian\"-style alternates in some fonts, I honestly doubt many
    people will break the typographic tradition (at least soon).\r\n\r\nThe typographer's
    community is indeed small in Bulgaria, but in fact there is no problem to study
    typography in *respected* schools abroad (well, at least I remember I've seen
    <em>Filip Zrantchev</em> in the MATD alumni list). As a member of EU, the possibilities
    for studying in Europe are excellent. So the things are not that \"cartel\"-ish
    (but still close)."
  created: '2008-03-08 22:05:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "So do you think it will be a mistake if my Cyrillic fonts, which I am about
    to release, have \"Hermes-style\" characters as the default for Bulgarian language
    in applications such as Adobe InDesign? \r\n\r\nDo you think it would be better
    if these were an option, as a Stylistic Set?\r\n\r\n<em>the accented smallcase
    \u0438 (which is not the same as ugrave)</em>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/shorti_6633.jpg]\r\nThis
    is the glyph substitution according to Hermes.\r\nIf the \"Russian\" glyphs are
    kept as standard, would this substitution be suitable as a Stylistic Alternate?"
  created: '2008-03-08 22:28:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"the accented smallcase \u0438 (which is not the same as ugrave).\"\r\n\r\nacnapyx,
    Is this what you mean?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/u_4613.png]\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-08 22:28:41'
- author:
    name: acnapyx
    picture: 113394
  body: "@Nick: <em>\"So do you think it will be a mistake if my Cyrillic fonts, which
    I am about to release, have \u201CHermes-style\u201D characters as the default
    for Bulgarian language in applications such as Adobe InDesign?\"</em>\r\nNo, not
    a mistake in any way, I just *think* they will be not used in most cases. It is
    better still to have it, than not, in case somebody is willing to use them. But
    I consider the idea about the stylistic set way better, so these who prefer using
    this \"Hermes\" standard can use it without much hassle.\r\n\r\n<em>the accented
    smallcase \u0438 (which is not the same as ugrave)</em>\r\nAbout the look of these
    glyphs please check this [[http://www.hermessoft.com/pdf/specimens/Garamond.pdf|PDF]]
    (the <em>Technical data</em> part)\r\nBoth Nick and descom have posted the \"i
    short\" (i kratko, <em>name:afii10075, Unicode:0439</em>) in Bulgarian, which
    often is wrongly used in the place of the accented lowercase \u0438, obviously
    due to the lack of adequate glyph in most fonts. That \u0439 is not in fact considered
    a diacritics, it is a regular letter and *is* available in (almost) all cyrillic
    alphabets, including Russian.\r\n\r\nThe case I am speaking about is (excuse me
    for the lame example):\r\nI gave her the book <em>of hers</em>\r\nwhich in Bulgarian
    is \r\n\u0414\u0430\u0434\u043E\u0445 <strong>\u0438</strong> \u043A\u043D\u0438\u0433\u0430\u0442\u0430
    <strong>\u0438</strong> (both <strong>\u0438</strong> should be accented in this
    way, but too often due to lack of adequate glyphs these are substituted with <strong>\u0439</strong>
    or ugrave). I wish I could post here an example, but looks like there is no unicode
    point for such glyph, so it is provided as an alternate in HS fonts. \r\n\r\nAs
    far as I know, there is no way to provide some kind of automatic substitution
    of <strong>\u0438</strong> via <strong>calt</strong> feature, because unaccented
    <strong>\u0438</strong> is also used as a conjunction. But it is safe to suppose
    a separate <strong>\u0439</strong> (<em>afii10075</em>) can be safely replaced
    via calt with the <strong>accented \u0438</strong> glyph."
  created: '2008-03-08 23:14:52'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "acnapyx,\r\n\r\na) there is a unicode codepoint for the letters you wish:\r\n
    \  U+040D CYRILLIC CAPITAL LETTER I WITH GRAVE\r\n   U+045D CYRILLIC SMALL LETTER
    I WITH GRAVE\r\nb) even without them you could always represent it by the sequence\r\n
    \  U+0418 CYRILLIC CAPITAL LETTER I, U+0300 COMBINING GRAVE ACCENT\r\n   U+0438
    CYRILLIC SMALL LETTER I, U+0300 COMBINING GRAVE ACCENT\r\n   (and OpenType capabilities
    placing those accents into the most aesthetic way...)\r\n\r\nIt is clearly very
    wrong to replace \"i kratkoe\" with the grave-accented glyph even as a stylistic
    alternate (a calt feature would be even more fatal), as they are (as even you
    stated it) different characters.\r\n\r\n\r\nThere is quite often the problem of
    people not understanding Unicode enough...\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nPS: Asparouh is a very
    nice old Bulgar name. I like it. :-)"
  created: '2008-03-08 23:38:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>It is clearly very wrong to replace \u201Ci kratkoe\u201D with the grave-accented
    glyph even as a stylistic alternate (a calt feature would be even more fatal),
    as they are (as even you stated it) different characters.</em>\r\n\r\nThe glyphs
    I showed are for the character, U+0439.\r\n\r\nI have been referring to a font
    I bought from Hermes, Helen Pro Thin, which has the glyph that looks like \"u
    macron\" at the \"i kratko\" codepoint.\r\n\r\nHowever, that font is missing the
    characters U+040D and U+045D.\r\n\r\nI already have those characters in my fonts,
    but without Bulgarian alternates, so I will now add the alternates!\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nOn
    a related note, what is the status of the Serbian alternate glyphs?\r\nShould
    these be the default, or a stylistic set?"
  created: '2008-03-09 00:08:38'
- author:
    name: acnapyx
    picture: 113394
  body: "aszszelp, I am not in any way an Unicode expert. I just say that in Bulgarian
    this way of using \"i kratko\" is very widespread - and this letter, surrounded
    by two spaces, has no other use here. So I considered this a way of correcting
    this behaviour. Yeah, <em>I know</em> these letters are <em>different</em>.\r\n\r\nBut
    the Unicode point you mentioned is correct, I admit. My bad. (Note: <em>HermesSoft
    do not use it anyway, but name the glyph afii10074.alt01 with no Unicode reference</em>)"
  created: '2008-03-09 00:16:54'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I'm finding a lot of valuable information on this thread, so thanks to all
    of you who contributed.\r\n\r\nJohn Hudson's explanation about Lazurski and others
    exploring a new idiom based on renaissance Latin typefaces cleared up a question
    I had on this subject. Does anyone know where I can find more info on Lazurski
    and others who reimagined the Cyrillic alphabet based on renaissance forms?\r\n\r\n<cite>On
    a related note, what is the status of the Serbian alternate glyphs?\r\nShould
    these be the default, or a stylistic set?</cite>\r\n\r\nAs I understand it, Serbian
    forms of both upright and italic \u0431 and the italic \u0433, \u0434, \u043F,
    and \u0442 are mandatory for Serbian (and probably Macedonian) typesetting. So
    the locl feature should be used, but since software support for that feature is
    difficult to come by, adding a stylistic set for Serbian forms (in addition to
    the locl feature) would help the most users, I would guess. On a slightly related
    note, over at the <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/42433\">Chinese Typography
    and Graphic Design</a> thread, I discussed the possibility of a single CJK font
    that would substitute the appropriate Chinese ideograph forms as preferred by
    the Chinese, Japanese, or Koreans based on the language. This would require a
    similar solution.\r\n\r\nI would like to learn more about the origins, usage status,
    and acceptance levels of Bulgarian forms, but let me state outright that I cannot
    stand \u044E with an ascender. It just looks wrong, as if one introduced an extender
    just for the sake of adding an extender."
  created: '2008-03-09 00:46:04'
- author:
    name: acnapyx
    picture: 113394
  body: "Regarding the Serbian cyrillics, I would recommend checking out the page
    of [[http://www.tipometar.org/aktuelno/akcija%21/ResavskaBGSans/IndexLat.html|Cultural
    Secretariate of  Serbian National Assembly]]. There you can get absolutely free
    two sample Serbian cyrillic fonts, made by the Serbian designer Olivera Stojadinovi\u0107."
  created: '2008-03-09 01:15:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>reimagined the Cyrillic alphabet based on renaissance forms</em>\r\n\r\nThere
    is a word for this, taken from DC Comics (Superman etc.) and also applied to Star
    Wars(!) \"retcon\", meaning retroactive continuity.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-09 03:00:50'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: back on topic, i would love to see a bit more influence of the ustav and polustav
    styles in contemporary designs. If you could breathe a bit of <a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/7333287@N07/2339414669/in/photostream/">this</a>
    into the cyrillic lowercase, i think it could work with an innovative approach?
  created: '2008-03-17 19:03:23'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Clearly, I don't have a feel for Cyrillic letterforms. While I agree that
    sh and shch have a slight legibility problem, I think, though:\r\n\r\nThat, unlike
    Greek, which does have a problem in this area in my opinion, Cyrillic is already
    as \"perfect\" as Latin and doesn't need to be further altered in the direction
    of more Latinization.\r\n\r\nThat going back to Cyrillic's pre-Petrine roots is
    not even an option. Why not? Because it's perfectly possible to make a pre-Petrine
    typeface for Cyrillic - just as there are Blackletter, Fraktur, Uncial, Carolingian,
    and other calligraphic typefaces for Latin. These are just alternate typefaces;
    just as the <em>existence</em> of typefaces with a non-Roman sensibility for Latin
    hasn't spurred their adoption, there's no reason to expect that popular taste
    would spur an adoption of a pre-Petrine style in the Cyrillic world.\r\n\r\nBasically,
    I doubt very much that Russian readers or publishers - or advertisers - would
    see any benefit from going down that path. (Since Vladimir Putin, in his efforts
    to repeat history, but as farce, has made a token effort to appear to be persecuting
    a minority to go with his aggression, I suppose that pre-Petrine forms could be
    his answer to Fraktur, but I'm not holding my breath.)\r\n\r\nOf course, since
    certain stylistic alternates are the norm in Bulgaria, it might be that popular
    taste <em>there</em> could lead to a wholesale turn to the pre-Petrine form, but
    I have no idea if there is any prospect of that as I am completely ignorant of
    the Bulgarian type scene."
  created: '2014-10-09 13:59:28'
date: '2008-02-22 18:09:52'
node_type: forum
title: The future of Cyrillics.

---
