---
author:
  name: flare389
  picture: 114348
body: "Hey everyone,\r\n\r\nI'm trying to find information about the history/styles
  of Chinese typography and graphic design. I'm also looking for blogs related to
  that topic. I've found some resources but I  wanted to try \"crowd-sourcing\" to
  see if anyone knows of sites that I'm not aware of. I just launched a <a href=\"http://www.calebkramer.com\">blog</a>
  where I'm concentrating on advertising and design in China and Taiwan, it's a personal
  research project of sorts that I've been wanting to start for a while. So if you
  have anything that may help me, I'd be most grateful!\r\n\r\n\r\nCaleb\r\n\r\n<a
  href=\"http://www.designbrandchina.com\">www.designbrandchina.com</a>\r\n\r\n\r\n "
comments:
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: Just posted this a second ago on another post, but Hoefler & Frere-Jones had
    a really good post on their blog this past week>> http://www.typography.com/ask/showBlog.php?blogID=80.
    Of course it doesn't go into much depth about Chinese script/typography or any
    other script, but it makes an interesting point about the differences between
    a Western notion of handwriting/typography and an Eastern one.
  created: '2008-02-24 21:02:53'
- author:
    name: flare389
    picture: 114348
  body: Thanks FeeltheKern, interesting article.
  created: '2008-02-25 03:03:57'
- author:
    name: mydot2001
    picture: 112735
  body: "There are not many different fonts of Chinese characters due to the fact
    that the cost of developing Chinese characters is simply astronomical. \r\n\r\nIn
    my opinion, the best Chinese font is the calligraphy, which is not easy to convert
    into  commercial fonts, but you still can find some calligraphic fonts.\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand, I have seen some good Japanese typography (Some characters are
    the same as Chinese), which cannot be found in China.\r\n\r\nYou can check this
    out\r\nhttp://blog.iso50.com/?p=572\r\nhttp://blog.iso50.com/?p=594"
  created: '2008-02-25 06:08:52'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "That's a vast topic since typography has a long history in China. Since you're
    concentrating on advertising and graphic design, would I be right to guess that
    your focus is on the last couple of centuries only?\r\n\r\nThe latest issue of
    Japan's <a href=\"http://www.idea-mag.com/home/index_en.shtml\">Idea Magazine</a>
    is devoted to contemporary Chinese book design.\r\n\r\nHow is your Chinese? Blogs
    like <a href=\"http://samuelopen.spaces.live.com/Blog/\">this</a> might help."
  created: '2008-02-25 06:33:17'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "http://www.typophile.com/node/40032\r\n\r\nhttp://cg.scs.carleton.ca/~luc/china.html\r\n\r\nhttp://www.monotype.com.hk/modules.php?name=Content&pa=showpage&pid=11\r\n\r\nhttp://www.omniglot.com/writing/chinese.htm\r\n\r\nhttp://www.cjvlang.com/Writing/writchin.html\r\n\r\nhttp://www.cjvlang.com/Writing/writlinks.html\r\n\r\nhttp://www.askasia.org/teachers/essays/essay.php?no=11\r\n\r\nhttp://www.char4u.com/article_info.php?articles_id=2\r\n\r\nhttp://home.vicnet.net.au/~ozideas/writchin.htm\r\n\r\nhttp://www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/abs/10.1162/07479360152681092\r\n\r\nhttp://www.google.com/search?hl=en&q=chinese+calligraphy&btnG=Google+Search\r\n\r\nhttp://www.google.com/search?hl=en&q=chinese+writing&btnG=Search\r\n\r\nhttp://www.core77.com/reactor/08.04_china.asp\r\n\r\nhttp://www.businessweek.com/innovate/content/sep2005/id20050921_382610.htm\r\n\r\n(Please
    pardon the lack of explanatory texts. It's late, and I'm off to bed.)"
  created: '2008-02-25 06:38:27'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I have a question of my own. What do people think of the designs of Chinese
    ideograph (hanzi/hanja/kanji) fonts coming out of China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Japan,
    Korea, and other scenes? Are there noteworthy country-specific trends? Who does
    the best Chinese ideograph fonts for display and for text?\r\n\r\nI wonder what
    non-Koreans think of Chinese characters designed by Koreans, for instance in the
    Chosunilbo Myeongjo (used by the daily newspaper <em>Chosun Ilbo</em>) font whose
    sample appears below. The sample is a poem by Kim Sis\u016Dp (1435-1493) called
    \"Vagabond\". The original hanja (Chinese characters) on the left, the Korean
    translation in hangul (Korean alphabet) on the right.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/yugaek_6169.gif]\r\n\r\nIs
    it even possible to detect a difference in the design of the Chinese ideographs
    from works by Chinese, Taiwanese, or Japanese teams?"
  created: '2008-02-25 07:22:25'
- author:
    name: akira1975
    picture: 109727
  body: "Here are the same characters set in several famous Japanese fonts:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/japanesefonts_2_6332.jpg]\r\n\r\nLeft
    to Right (Upper): \u30EA\u30E5\u30A6\u30DF\u30F3R(Ryumin R), \u30D2\u30E9\u30AE\u30CE\u660E\u671DW3(Hiragino
    Mincho W3), \u30A4\u30EF\u30BF\u660E\u671D\u30AA\u30FC\u30EB\u30C9R\r\nLeft to
    Right (Lower): \u672C\u660E\u671DM(Hon Mincho M), \u6E38\u660E\u671D\u4F53R(Yu
    Mincho-tai R), \u5C0F\u585A\u660E\u671DR(Kozuka Mincho R)\r\n\r\nWhen I see Chinese
    fonts, I\u2019m often surprised their characters are very different from those
    of Japanese fonts.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-25 08:12:31'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "In terms of glyph forms, I think Koreans prefer the four-stroke form of the
    grass radical (looking like ++). The three-stroke form is acceptable as a simplification,
    but the four-stroke form is considered proper. The only form of the walk radical
    (as in the character \u904E) that I've seen Koreans write is the one in the Korean
    font sample. That's the way we are taught to write it. The Korean form of \u9751
    (blue/green) has a lower part that looks like \u5186 instead of \u6708, at least
    the way I learnt it. But I think Koreans are used to reading the other forms that
    you find in Japanese fonts. I think Koreans find most Japanese forms perhaps odd
    but acceptable, and most people won't even notice the differences.\r\n\r\nThe
    forms I saw in China, though, took quite a bit of getting used to, and not just
    because Simplified Chinese is used. I caught differences in characters like \u5165
    (enter) and \u5316 (become), which have forms that look almost wrong to Korean
    eyes. The character \u5929 (sky) is interesting, because the Chinese seem to use
    the form where the upper horizontal stroke is shorter than the lower one. Koreans
    write the character in the same manner, but are used to seeing the version with
    the longer upper stroke in print (maybe that's a Japanese thing?). I see though
    that Chosunilbo Myeongjo (the font I picked for the sample) has the version with
    the shorter upper stroke.\r\n\r\nFrom what I can tell, they did a lot of research
    for Chosunilbo Myeongjo to pick glyph forms considered proper by Koreans. Because
    we use a lot of hanja designs imported from elsewhere (chiefly Japan), we are
    used to seeing a proliferation of variant glyph forms for hanja in print (which
    might explain some of my struggles with hanja).\r\n\r\nI wonder how the current
    vogue in studying Chinese as a foreign language will influence the Korean preferences
    for certain hanja forms in the future."
  created: '2008-02-25 09:14:23'
- author:
    name: flare389
    picture: 114348
  body: "Wow, thanks for the response. I'll have to set aside some time to go through
    all of this. \r\n\r\n@ Jongseong : \r\n\r\nYour right, it is a vast topic. My
    <a href=\"http://www.calebkramer.com>blog</a> will focus on more recent Chinese
    graphic design and advertising but it would help me to better understand it if
    I learn about the evolution it has gone through. Western graphic design has gone
    through periods that are specifically labeled, I am wondering if there are actual
    defined periods like this for East Asian graphic design? I am also curious about
    how Korean, Japanese, and Chinese design affect each other. Which country commands
    the most influence? I suspect it's Japan but I may be wrong. \r\n\r\nAs for my
    Chinese, reading is probably my weakest area, but reading Chinese blogs will only
    help me to fix that! What are your top ten Chinese design blogs?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.calebkramer.com\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-25 21:54:11'
- author:
    name: mydot2001
    picture: 112735
  body: "As a Chinese, I really feel that there are not sufficient fonts to choose
    from. All the samples above are based on Song style, also known as Ming style
    in Japan. There may be some variations and nuances, and I have to admit that I
    enjoy those subtleties. My favorite Chinese font remains this\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f_4303.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-26 02:18:16'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Caleb, I have to confess I know very little about Chinese graphic design,
    and rely on impressions gathered from several short visits and reports appearing
    on Korean magazines and blogs. There seem to be a lot of international design-related
    conferences going on that involve people from across East Asia, and there is growing
    interest here in the Chinese and Japanese design scenes.\r\n\r\nThere was very
    little cultural exchange in general between South Korea and China until the 1990s.
    So until recently, the Korean and Chinese design scenes were largely independent
    of each other. Japan had more of an influence, at least in type production. The
    earliest western-technology hangul type, designed by Choe Jihyeok for a Korean-French
    dictionary, was cut in Yokohama in 1880. Many of the important pre-digital era
    hangul types were cut (or produced for phototypesetting) in Japan, right up to
    the 1970s.\r\n\r\nThat is for type design technology, though, and I'm not sure
    how much of an influence there was on the content, or for other areas of graphic
    design. I can only offer impressions, but I'm sure the influence is there, if
    only through the familiarity bred by Japanese magazines and manga books that are
    widely available in Korea. Japanese books and magazines make up the second largest
    section of the foreign books sections of large Korean book stores.\r\n\r\nI'm
    sorry I'm not able to answer more about graphic design and advertising since my
    interests tend to be focused on type design. I don't know any Chinese design blogs;
    I just turned that one up through searches. Then there is the language and script
    barrier between the three countries, which one has to keep in mind before overestimating
    the influence the design scenes have on each other. I'm feeling a bit guilty,
    because this thread made me realize just how little I know about the design scenes
    of our neighbours. Maybe it's not just me and Korean designers are mostly oblivious
    to developments in China and Japan. (Then again, maybe they religiously consult
    the latest Japanese design annuals.)\r\n\r\nAs for periods in East Asian graphic
    design, the only thing I can think of right now is for calligraphy. If you want
    a history of the different styles of calligraphy throughout the different dynasties
    of China, I can do some research. It will take some time, though."
  created: '2008-02-26 03:00:24'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Yifei, what is that style called? In Korea we would just call it haeseo (\u6977\u66F8),
    so would it be <em>kaishu</em> in Chinese? Or does that just refer to the style
    of calligraphy? And what font is that?\r\n\r\nI love this style as well. It's
    easily the most legible of the calligraphic styles for us, because we are so familiar
    with it. Whenever we need hanja for display uses, I prefer to use a face in that
    style. Some time ago we had some hanja printed on envelopes with such a face.\r\n\r\nBecause
    the most popular hangul text faces have calligraphic brush stroke finishes, I've
    never been completely satisfied with the Song (or Ming) style Chinese text faces
    that often accompany them. But the kaishu style (if that is what it's called)
    doesn't seem to have the right proportions for use in small texts, with small
    counters and less squarish forms. As a native reader, what do you think of this
    style in running text? Have there been any attempts to develop text faces not
    in the Song style (besides sans serifs)?"
  created: '2008-02-26 03:14:24'
- author:
    name: flare389
    picture: 114348
  body: "Thanks for all the information on typography, I'm going to look through it
    more this weekend. Is there any chance anyone can point me towards other design
    forums that I may find answers about Chinese advertising and graphic design?\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\nCaleb\r\n\r\nhttp://www.calebkramer.com"
  created: '2008-02-28 19:11:44'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>Yifei, what is that style called? In Korea we would just call it haeseo
    (\u6977\u66F8), so would it be kaishu in Chinese? Or does that just refer to the
    style of calligraphy? </cite>\r\n\r\n\u6977\u4E66 is indeed <em>k\u01CEish\u016B</em>
    in Mandarin, and it refers to a particular style of calligraphy, though it\u2019s
    so predominant that it\u2019s dubious whether it\u2019s appropriate to think of
    it as just \u2018a style\u2019 of calligraphy. Its English name is Regular Script
    (or Normal Script\u2014it also has plenty of other names). Wikipedia has a <a
    href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_script\" title=\"Wikipedia article
    about \u6977\u4E66\">fairly good \u6977\u4E66 article</a> on the topic.\r\n\r\nThe
    computer typefaces based on Regular Script are also called \u6977\u4E66 in Chinese.\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n<cite>In
    terms of glyph forms, I think Koreans prefer the four-stroke form of the grass
    radical (looking like ++). The three-stroke form is acceptable as a simplification,
    but the four-stroke form is considered proper.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn China, the four-stroke
    version of the \u8349\u5B57\u5934 was officially abolished with the advent of
    the First Simplified Character Scheme. It\u2019s still used occasionally in more
    exuberant, \u2018flowing\u2019 typefaces, but only in traditional characters (which
    the more exuberant calligraphic scripts tend to be, anyway).\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n<cite>The
    only form of the walk radical (as in the character \u904E) that I\u2019ve seen
    Koreans write is the one in the Korean font sample. That\u2019s the way we are
    taught to write it.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis form is also seen in China, but is also
    associated with traditional characters. It is seldom used among simplified characters.
    It is quite commonly written that way in handwriting, though. The regular form
    in Mainland China, \u8FB6, is merely a further simplification of \u8FB5 <em>chu\xF2</em>,
    from which the character derives (ultimately from a character written something
    like \u5F73\u6B62\u4E8D (a \u6B62 inserted into the middle of a \u884C).\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n<cite>The
    Korean form of \u9751 (blue/green) has a lower part that looks like \u5186 instead
    of \u6708, at least the way I learnt it. But I think Koreans are used to reading
    the other forms that you find in Japanese fonts. I think Koreans find most Japanese
    forms perhaps odd but acceptable, and most people won\u2019t even notice the differences.</cite>\r\n\r\n\u5186
    would perhaps be the more logical development here, but the Chinese development
    of \u6708 is also not far-fetched. \u9752 is, of course, from \u751F and \u4E39
    originally, and the \u70B9 in \u4E39 has merely become a \u6A2A, rather than a
    \u7AD6, in the Chinese form of the character. (Notice how this is also the case
    in the composite character \u9759, both in the Korean and the Japanese typefaces\u2014I
    wonder why this particular \u70B9 has developed in two different ways, apparently
    according to the complexity of the character, in Korean and Japanese.)\r\n\r\nTo
    me, though, the Korean \u6709 that has a \u6487 as its third stroke, rather than
    a \u7AD6, simply looks... odd. Very odd. I can imagine how you feel when you see
    Mainland Chinese typefaces where half the characters are somehow \u2018wrong\u2019
    like that.\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n<cite>The forms I saw in China, though, took quite
    a bit of getting used to, and not just because Simplified Chinese is used. I caught
    differences in characters like \u5165 (enter) and \u5316 (become), which have
    forms that look almost wrong to Korean eyes.</cite>\r\n\r\nWith \u5165, I assume
    you refer to the calligraphy-like style that looks merely like a reversed \u4EBA,
    without the \u2018hook\u2019 (dare one call it a serif? :-P) at the top? Both
    styles are in equally common use in China.\r\n\r\nIn the case of \u5316, the main
    difference seems to be that in China (and Japan?), the upside-down \u4EBA has
    morphed into the unique shape "
  created: '2008-02-29 02:37:56'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Thank, Janus, for your in-depth contribution! I think it's fair to say that
    Korean hanja forms tend to be quite conservative, especially compared to the character
    forms in China. Hanja has fallen out of everyday use a long time ago in Korea,
    so it makes sense that Koreans use 'fossilized' forms while the glyph forms continue
    to evolve in China.\r\n\r\nAlso, Koreans don't learn much about cursive or shorthand
    forms of Chinese characters, which seem to be the base of a lot of alternate forms
    in China and Japan.\r\n\r\nI didn't even notice that the Korean \u6709 form was
    significantly different from the other examples until you pointed it out. For
    me, it's just a stylistic variation, just like the two different and equally acceptable
    forms of the hangul vowel \u3160 (yu) where the left vertical stroke may be either
    straight or curved. It's good to learn that the Korean form looks so odd to you.\r\n\r\nIt
    looks like an opportunity is there for some team to do the research into country-specific
    forms and to develop a Chinese OpenType font with the appropriate alternates so
    that you can set culturally-appropriate Chinese, Japanese, and Korean characters
    with a single monster font family. If there is indeed a team combining the international
    expertise and the ability to put in ridiculous amounts of man-hours... One can
    dream, right?"
  created: '2008-02-29 05:38:07'
- author:
    name: Kunihiko_Okano
    picture: 110217
  body: 'I''m really curious about this topic. I don''t have enough time to go over
    this thread now but I''d like to come back as soon as possible. '
  created: '2008-02-29 06:55:30'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>It looks like an opportunity is there for some team to do the research
    into country-specific forms and to develop a Chinese OpenType font with the appropriate
    alternates so that you can set culturally-appropriate Chinese, Japanese, and Korean
    characters with a single monster font family. If there is indeed a team combining
    the international expertise and the ability to put in ridiculous amounts of man-hours...
    One can dream, right?</cite>\r\n\r\nThat would indeed be quite the font. One could
    have national varieties as simple stylistic sets."
  created: '2008-02-29 12:36:23'
- author:
    name: Kunihiko_Okano
    picture: 110217
  body: " I read an article that Akira Kobayashi of Linotype attended a type design
    competition in Shanghai as a jury last year. According to his blog, he thought
    that designing typeface skills in China would improve in a few years judging from
    the winning piece of works. Especially, type designers who had calligraphy skills
    designed good works.\r\n\r\nAfter I read his blog, I've been curious about the
    latest type design in China. Of course, the one in Korea too. And maybe some of
    Japanese typeface designers aren't aware of the development of type design in
    China. As Brian mentioned, I have little chance to know about the design scenes
    of my neighbors. I got the Idea magazine [[http://www.idea-mag.com/cgi-bin/book/catalog.cgi?language=en&item=327|No.307]]
    that featured Graphic design in Korea to know about type design in Korea few  years
    ago, which was the only stuff that I was able to know about design scenes of Korea.
    And also I bought the latest issue of Idea magazine [[http://www.idea-mag.com/cgi-bin/book/catalog.cgi?language=en&item=307|No.327]]
    \ that featured \"Book design today in China.\" Both issues are very interesting.
    I felt that there are some similarity between China and Korea but I found its
    originality in every work. I like the works that is a mixture taste of traditional
    and modern. I don't know how is the Japanese design because I'm in Japan. Maybe,
    it is easy to understand it from outside of Japan. In order to obtain the latest
    situation in Japan, you can also see Akira Yoshino's flickr photos from [[http://www.flickr.com/photos/akira1975/|here]].
    I think this library covers several categories such as posters, signage and billboards
    in Japan.\r\n\r\nI attended TypeCon 2007 Seattle last year, but there was no presentation
    concerned about East Asia area language except Robert Bringhurst's great one.
    Meanwhile, the speaker who showed about Arabic were really enthusiastic. So the
    audience seemed to be interested in their presentations. After the conference,
    I thought it was important to introduce the CJK type design to the people who
    lives in the other language area.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-01 03:19:27'
- author:
    name: mydot2001
    picture: 112735
  body: "To Jongseong\r\n\r\nSorry for replying so late at this point. Yes, you are
    right about the it. It's \u6977\u4F53. It doesn't fit into the era that we are
    in, but still it's very classy. It is based on the stand calligraphic style which
    I was learning when I was young.\r\n\r\n\u5B8B\u4F53 is also another classy font,
    but apart from being used in texts, it has little presence in other forms, partly
    due to the fact that when it gets enlarged, the strokes are not bold enough to
    be legible enough. Of course, there are some improvements out there, but maybe
    being a serif font makes it not that popular.\r\n\r\nThe current trend is using
    more sans font. \u9ED1\u4F53 is the most used font now as far as I can see. \u9ED1\u4F53
    in Konghong is much bolder than the one in Mainland, which shows the creativeness
    when it comes to types in Hongkong. I kind of like bolder version of \u9ED1\u4F53.\r\n\r\nBut
    as a whole, the design scene is China doesn't care about the types. Even the great
    designers ignore the types, which quite spoils everything. I feel sick seeing
    those ugly fonts used on the streets. Even the fonts used in the Olympic slogan
    is hideous in a way that it's so predictable as if it had been chosen randomly
    in Word.\r\n\r\nThe good thing is that everyday I see more different Chinese fonts
    appearing everywhere, which were quite non-existent. I still don't know the name
    yet."
  created: '2008-03-03 12:39:47'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "I agree with nearly all of that, except the part about liking the bolder
    \u9ED1\u4F53.\r\n\r\nIn all honesty, I can\u2019t say I\u2019ve ever seen a Chinese
    sans-serif text face that I\u2019ve liked\u2014or perhaps, I\u2019d better limit
    that to \u9ED1\u4F53-style faces, since there are some subtly seriffed faces that
    look quite good, despite being almost sans. Some of the more \u2018fun\u2019 display
    faces are okay, but they\u2019re hardly usable as text fonts.\r\n\r\nIf only there
    weren\u2019t so much work involved in creating a full CJK font, I\u2019m sure
    the development of more and different faces would go far quicker."
  created: '2008-03-03 17:52:37'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I've been looking at the <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ming_(typeface)\">\r\nWikipedia
    articles</a> on the Song (\u5B8B\u4F53)/Ming typeface. The picture that accompanies
    the Chinese version of the article seems to be an early printed sample, although
    there seems to be no more information on it.\r\n\r\nI think my problem with Song-style
    faces is that they often have spindly, thin horizontals and exaggerated triangular
    serifs, resulting in a harsh look, especially printed on glossy paper. This sample
    makes me think these features were originally introduced to compensate for ink
    gain in the past, because the forms in the sample are much warmer and more graceful
    than what I am used to seeing. I'd like to see a return to this sensibility in
    text faces.\r\n\r\nThe article mentions the Imitation Song style (\u4EFF\u5B8B\u4F53)
    faces, which I didn't know about. I'm curious about their role in Chinese typography.
    Are they acceptable text faces? Are they used in conjunction with Song style faces,
    maybe like italics are used in conjunction with roman faces?\r\n\r\nIn China,
    I think I saw a lot of sans faces with round forms or rounded corners. We don't
    see a lot of fun Chinese display faces at all in Korea, so they were really interesting
    to see, and I'm glad more different designs are appearing. But as Janus (Ois\xEDn)
    said, I don't see them or any sans faces really working for text.\r\n\r\nSpeaking
    of heavy sans faces, what do people think of TDC2 2008 winner <a href=\"http://tdc.org/news/2008Results/LogoJrBlack.html\">Logo
    Jr Black</a>, probably the blackest Chinese face I've seen?"
  created: '2008-03-04 05:39:05'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABThe article mentions the Imitation Song style (\u4EFF\u5B8B\u4F53)
    faces, which I didn\u2019t know about. I\u2019m curious about their role in Chinese
    typography. Are they acceptable text faces? Are they used in conjunction with
    Song style faces, maybe like italics are used in conjunction with roman faces?\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nJust
    to make sure we\u2019re on the same page here (since you mention being unfamiliar
    with the term), this is a (very quick \u2019n\u2019 dirty) sample text of STFangSong,
    OS X\u2019s default Imitation Song face.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fangsong_5351.png]\r\n\r\nImitation
    Song faces are sometimes used much like italics are used in Western type, for
    names, quotes, titles, &c. They are often used as regular text faces, too, though
    I\u2019m not really sure if this is considered \u2018proper\u2019 by knowledgeable
    Chinese typographers. Text set in Imitation Song faces will then often use either
    a sans-serif face or an actual Song face for the \u2018italic\u2019 function,
    although actual italics (which are of course not actual italics, but false, computer-generated
    italics) are becoming increasingly common, despite looking ghastly. The Chinese
    script was <em>not</em> meant to be digitally slanted.\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n<cite>\xABSpeaking
    of heavy sans faces, what do people think of TDC2 2008 winner Logo Jr Black, probably
    the blackest Chinese face I\u2019ve seen?\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nI have to say I rather
    dislike it. Heavy sans faces work somewhat better for Japanese in general, since
    the interspersion and mixture of kana and kanji gives the overall text a lighter
    and less stroke-heavy look than is the case for Chinese; but even for Japanese,
    I think this face is too thick. Not only a display font, but a display font only
    suitable for headings of no more than around 8\u201310 characters, to my eyes."
  created: '2008-03-04 12:11:53'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Thanks for the sample and the info on imitation song faces, Janus. I'll be
    interested to hear what Chinese typographers have to say on this topic as well.\r\n\r\n<cite>The
    Chinese script was not meant to be digitally slanted.</cite>\r\n\r\nIndeed. I
    see Korean faces being digitally slanted all the time and it drives me mad, though
    I suspect hangul responds a bit better to slanting than the Chinese script.\r\n\r\n<cite>Not
    only a display font, but a display font only suitable for headings of no more
    than around 8\u201310 characters, to my eyes.</cite>\r\n\r\nOf course, for Koreans,
    seeing even eight Chinese characters in a row is a lot and a cause of instant
    headaches. :) I think Koreans are also tolerant of thick sans serif Chinese faces.
    A main use would be in newspaper headlines, many of which might contain just a
    single Chinese character."
  created: '2008-03-05 02:10:09'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "For Korean headlines, I can imagine it might work. Though stroke-heavier
    than the Japanese kana schemes, Hangul is still far more overseeable and lighter
    than continuous hanja/kanji/h\xE0nz\xEC/characters.\r\n\r\nI would love to see
    what <em>cu\xE0n</em> or <em>b\xE8ng</em> look like in that font, though. I\u2019m
    not even sure OS X\u2019 built-in (poor) Simplified Chinese input system allows
    me to type those out. \u7228 \u2013 ah, what do you know, it does work with <em>cu\xE0n</em>.
    Not so with \u4A3B <em>b\xE8ng</em>, though.\r\n\r\nJust so people don\u2019t
    have to enlarge font sizes on the page seventeen times to see more than little
    blobs where those two characters are, a bigger sample:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cuanbeng_4528.png]"
  created: '2008-03-05 02:32:31'
- author:
    name: flare389
    picture: 114348
  body: "I found some promising resources on Chinese typography at http://www.vam.ac.uk/vastatic/microsites/1636_chinadesignnow/educational-resources
    .\r\n\r\nDownload the PDF under \"Further Reading\" \r\n\r\nIt has a list of books
    and journal entries"
  created: '2008-03-19 23:52:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Those in the UK during the next four months, might be interested in visiting
    the 'China Design Now' exhibition at the Victoria & Albert Museum:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.vam.ac.uk/vastatic/microsites/1636_chinadesignnow/"
  created: '2008-03-20 03:19:00'
- author:
    name: flare389
    picture: 114348
  body: "Has anybody seen this Wikipedia entry on Gothic typefaces in East Asia? http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Japanese_gothic_typeface\r\n\r\nGothic
    is apparently the equivalent of sans serif in East Asian typography and is classified
    even further into round and square sans. Those two categories also have a couple
    variants: overlapping and new book. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: flare389
      picture: 114348
    body: That wikipedia post also has some good information on East Asian fonts used
      on Mac and Windows
    created: '2008-03-22 01:39:40'
  created: '2008-03-22 01:01:38'
- author:
    name: flare389
    picture: 114348
  body: 'Hey I was hoping someone could answer a question for me. Since calligraphy
    is such an important art form in China I was wondering what people think of modern
    experimentation with Chinese character forms. Overall is it considered atrocious
    or is it welcomed? '
  created: '2008-04-03 16:59:44'
- author:
    name: Kunihiko_Okano
    picture: 110217
  body: "I think some of graphic designers and web designers are always looking for
    a new style fonts except Mincho and Gothic.\r\nThere are some experimental type
    design such as Logo Jr. Black and [[http://tdc.org/news/2005Results/Shouten.html
    | Shotenmaru]], which designs are award winning type designs of TDC and are used
    for commercial media.\r\nIt is hard to develop new type faces quickly because
    CJK fonts have at least 7,000 characters, but there is an experimental type design
    project. The fonts released by [[http://www.font1000.com/ | Font 1000 project]]
    have only 1,000 characters. So the type designer can develop a new and unique
    style font in a shorter time than making 7,000 characters. It is difficult to
    use them for a body text as they have only 1,000 characters, but you can use them
    for Titling, Logotype and Display.\r\nI'm afraid this is a topic in Japan but
    I would like to know the situation in China."
  created: '2008-04-04 05:06:55'
- author:
    name: flare389
    picture: 114348
  body: "These are a couple pretty cool examples of cutting edge Chinese typography.
    I pulled them off Wieden + Kennedy's Shanghai <a href=\"http://www.wkshanghai.com/blog/\">blog</a>.
    \ \r\n\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://tinyurl.com/3to7ph\">Nike Ad</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://tinyurl.com/4kcoqj\">Converse
    Ad</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-27 16:17:02'
- author:
    name: Eyedunno
    picture: 116431
  body: "I happened upon this thread by accident and felt compelled to reply.  Apologies
    for resurrecting it for the second time.\r\n\r\nJongSeong:\r\nMy feeling is that
    different CJK-using cultures have bastardized the characters in different ways
    over time, and talking about \"correctness\" is futile.\r\n\r\nIn Japan, the character
    \u62DD is used, as opposed to the more historically-correct Chinese \u62DC.  On
    the other hand, Japanese stroke order is more in tune with classical forms than
    any other CJK country.  For example, \u53F3 is written with the sloping stroke
    first in Japan, which reflects the oracle-bone form better than the more intuitive
    stroke order used in other countries.\r\n\r\nI know very little about hanja in
    Korean, but from what you posted, I will say that while most of that stuff looks
    fine (though the typeface design itself seems a little limp), \u904E and \u904A
    indeed look funny.  I would guess that this is a Korean bastardization; it looks
    like somebody mixed up the radicals for \u9032 and \u5EF6.\r\n\r\nAnd mainland
    China is, of course, guilty of the most hanzi tomfoolery with all its rounds of
    ugly simplification.  I suspect \u5929 with the top stroke shorter is another
    product of the mainland, though I can't be sure about that.  Note however that
    Microsoft's MingLiU font for traditional Chinese has the top stroke longer (though
    confusingly, the newer JhengHei font has the top shorter).\r\n\r\nAnyway, I believe
    there is already a system of putting lots of variant forms into fonts, and it's
    called Unicode.  I personally think it would be pointless to take things further
    than Unicode already does, as a lot of the things mentioned are stylistic preferences
    that don't change the fundamental legibility of the script, and as such, Koreans
    using a made-in-Korea Unicode font seems like it would be just fine.  But the
    grass radical written with either three or four strokes is not unheard-of in either
    China or Japan (\u8279, \uFA5E, and \uFA5D are all radical forms of \u8278), and
    neither is \u9751.  Even in Japan, the less familiar forms are sometimes chosen
    as a stylistic gesture.  Also note that both \u9752 and \u9751 have separate Unicode
    code points, and both variants should be found in any decent kanji/hanzi dictionary
    and in most Chinese and Japanese fonts (though Microsoft's Korean fonts only seem
    to have the latter, hrmph).\r\n\r\nakira1975:\r\nI really like to see kana when
    judging a Japanese mincho font though.  \u306F\uFF0F\u307B\uFF0F\u3051, \u3092,
    \u3046, \u3089, and \u304F in particular say a lot about a given typeface, as
    does the size of the kana compared to that of the kanji.\r\n\r\nmydot2001:\r\nActually,
    Song is known as Mincho (\u660E\u671D \"Ming Dynasty\") in Japan and Ming in Taiwan.
    \ From what I've heard, this is because, while the face is a product of the Song
    Dynasty, it really gained prominence in the Ming Dynasty."
  created: '2008-12-14 06:01:21'
- author:
    name: Eyedunno
    picture: 116431
  body: "Oh, one more thing to add that just occurred to me.  <em>Tonbo</em>, the
    Japanese word for dragonfly, is rendered in kanji as \u873B\u86C9, with \u9751
    to the right of \u866B as the only possibility, but just about every common character
    normally uses \u9752 (though, as I said above, \u9751 is still seen occasionally).
    \ So  I guess Japanese is all mixed up.\r\n\r\nAnd since I'm doubleposting, I
    might as well give some input to the OP, old thread or not.  There are several
    basic Chinese script types commonly used:\r\n1) Song/Ming (\u5B8B or \u660E) -
    Previously mentioned, this is the Chinese equivalent to a serif face, and is used
    for similar purposes.\r\n2) Hei/Gothic (\u9ED1 or Gothic) - A Chinese sans serif.\r\n3)
    Regular script (\u6977\u66F8) - Standard brush-written script\r\n4) Cursive script
    (\u8349\u66F8) - Script where even complicated characters can be written with
    a single brush stroke.  Looks like squiggles to most people, so it's not very
    useful for anything but decoration.\r\n5) Semi-cursive script (\u884C\u66F8) -
    Has the flowing beauty of cursive script with most of the legibility of regular
    script.\r\n6) Clerical script (\u96B8\u66F8) - the predecessor to regular script,
    and still used for its stylish yet very clear appearance.\r\n7) Seal script (\u7BC6\u66F8)
    - As the name suggests, this is used for carved personal seals (as in stamps).
    \ Normally straight strokes tend to be heavily curved, and examples of this can
    be extremely complicated (to frustrate potential counterfeiters).\r\n8) Oracle
    bone script (\u7532\u9AA8\u6587) - As far as I'm aware, this is the oldest Chinese
    writing, and most of the characters still look like pictograms.  This is pretty
    much used only for decoration, and rarely at that.\r\n9) Bronze script (\u91D1\u6587)
    - Used in ancient China on cast bronze.  The earliest examples resemble Oracle
    bone script, while later examples anticipate seal script.  Modern versions of
    bronze script have a tall, thin, and slightly warped appearance, which can be
    used for anything from a refined, high-class look to a spooky look.  Here's an
    example:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2008102421174495_4601.gif]\r\n10)
    Edomoji (\u6C5F\u6238\u6587\u5B57) - Japanese styles that came into use a few
    hundred years ago, but can now be seen in other countries and in Chinese computer
    fonts as well.  Most of these are very heavy faces.  I think the most common type
    of Edomoji today is Kanteiryu (\u52D8\u4EAD\u6D41).  Wiki Edomoji (or any of these)
    if you're curious.\r\n\r\n\r\nThere are also numerous pop faces that have come
    around in recent years, and I'd say that most are stylized variants of Gothic
    faces."
  created: '2008-12-14 09:17:42'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Interesting to hear that the Japanese stroke order is the most classical.
    I had a Japanese friend in university who would always laugh when she saw me write
    Chinese characters because my stroke order was all wrong. That's probably because
    my stroke order is wrong by any standard, though, including Korean. Since most
    Koreans of my generation don't really ever write Chinese characters, we don't
    bother to learn the correct stroke order.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gwagwagwagwa_6353.gif]\r\n\r\nFor
    your amusement, here are four Korean designs of the same character \u904E. From
    left to right, they are (1) Chosunilbo Myeongjo (a sample of which I posted earlier),
    (2) Batang, (3) Sinmyeong Gungseo, and (4) #Gungseo.\r\n\r\nTo my Korean eyes,
    (2) has the most recognizable form of the radical for print, and (3) is the preferred
    form for handwriting. I've already commented on (1), as has Eyedunno, and frankly
    (4) is just bizarre."
  created: '2008-12-14 22:47:16'
- author:
    name: Eyedunno
    picture: 116431
  body: "I'll go ahead and give two examples of the stroke order thing.  Here's an
    composite image from scans I made of my kanji dictionary that should make this
    easier to explain:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kanjistrokeorder_3788.png]\r\n\r\nI
    already mentioned \u53F3.  This is written the same as \u5DE6 in Japanese, but
    going back to the bronze and seal scripts, it should be easy to see that the hand
    should be drawn first, followed by the arm, which cuts through.  Incidentally,
    \u6709 is written with the same initial stroke as \u53F3, since the top part represents
    a right hand.\r\n\r\n\u5FC5 is trickier to explain.  While in classifying the
    character, \u5FC3 (heart) is treated as the radical, the original character had
    nothing to do with a heart.  It's a forked stick held down to two stakes with
    a rope.  This sense of \"tied down\" thus connects to the current meaning of \"necessary\"
    or \"must\".  In Japan, this is still reflected in the stroke order, where the
    stick is drawn first, then the rope, then the stakes.\r\n\r\nBut really, Chinese
    (and apparently Korean, according to the one Korean I've asked) stroke orders
    are designed to be more practical for education, while Japanese stroke order stays
    closer to old forms for the benefit of calligraphers.  So it ultimately boils
    down to two different ways of thinking, and each is correct, in a sense.\r\n\r\nAnd
    yeah, I agree that (4) is strange, as, from what I've heard, the part underneath
    the dot in the handwritten form IS the second dot; it's just connected.  In Japan,
    the usual standard is to omit the second dot, even in print forms.  This seems
    to be true of simplified Chinese fonts as well.  Here are some Japanese Mincho
    (Song/Ming) and Kaisho (Regular) fonts:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/minchokaisho1_6083.png]"
  created: '2008-12-15 02:02:42'
- author:
    name: lunde
    picture: 111902
  body: "The recent posts to this thread have struck a few nerves, and I mean that
    in a good sense. In other words, Eyedunno has raised several key issues related
    to ideographs.\r\n\r\nOne issue is that of simplified forms. Conventional wisdom
    states that China has embraced this, which is correct. But, Japan has as well,
    but not nearly to the same degree as in China. In fact, they share many of the
    same simplified forms, such as \u56FD (U+56FD) for \u570B (U+570B). But, there
    are some for which only Japan standardized a simplified form, such as \u9ED2 (U+9ED2)
    for \u9ED1 (U+9ED1).\r\n\r\nThe interesting thing about simplified forms is that
    they result in a more complex world. In effect, they add to the total number of
    characters, and to some extent has the opposite effect. Of our CJK fonts, our
    Simplified Chinese ones have significantly more glyphs than for other CJK locales.\r\n\r\nThe
    other is the notion of correctness. It is absolutely correct that any attempt
    to do so is somewhat futile. Each locale that has adopted ideographs as part of
    their writing system has modified it for their own use. I am reluctant to use
    the word bastardize in this context, but it is fairly accurate. Vietnam, Japan,
    and Korea have even coined their own ideographs, and a small number were borrowed
    back by the Chinese, such as \u817A (U+817A). Getting back to the notion of correctness,
    Japan is currently struggling with this in their attempt to update the Joyo Kanji
    list. The current Joyo Kanji list is built on principles, one of which is that
    the forms are simplified. Some of the kanji that they plan to add are from the
    NLC (National Language Council) Kanji set, which was defined in 2000 and contains
    1,022 characters. This set uses the traditional forms. It's a balancing act between
    simplified and so-called correctness.\r\n\r\nI predicted that in 25 years or so,
    genuine unification is likely to take place, and the catalyst for this is Unicode.
    Today, a single CJK Unified Ideograph code point may require more than one glyph
    in order to display the character as intended for each locale that uses it. Given
    enough time, mainly for the current generation to grow old and pass on, the distinctions
    that are considered important today are likely to become unimportant in the future.
    As communication mediums improve, the world gets smaller. That, along with the
    tendency for things to simply, will cause this to happen.\r\n\r\nI could go on
    and on...\r\n\r\nDr. Ken Lunde\r\nSenior Computer Scientist, CJKV Type Development\r\nAdobe
    Systems Incorporated\r\nlunde@adobe.com"
  created: '2008-12-15 13:57:36'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Plenty of good points here to mull over.\r\n\r\n<cite>I predicted that in
    25 years or so, genuine unification is likely to take place, and the catalyst
    for this is Unicode.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think a lot will depend on the handful of
    foundries are responsible for producing CJK fonts that are likely to be used by
    the wider public. I would guess that compared to the innumerable designers and
    foundries contributing to the development of latin fonts, the producers of CJK
    fonts are far fewer in number.\r\n\r\nI could see this going in either direction.
    CJK unification could be accelerated by more exchange and collaboration between
    outfits from different countries, as type designers will try to come up with single
    forms that will please the mainland Chinese as well as the Japanese, Korean as
    well as the Taiwanese. Then again, type designers might choose to emphasize the
    national differences, even to the point of creating differences where there really
    weren't any before. In any case, it might be a handful of people that end up determining
    the future of CJK font production."
  created: '2008-12-15 19:56:38'
- author:
    name: Eyedunno
    picture: 116431
  body: "Wow!  The fact that they're expanding the Joyo Kanji list is news to me.
    \ It looks like they've chosen good characters to add and get rid of, too, except
    that \u9B31 will go from a \"can you write this?\" challenge character (like \u8594\u8587)
    to something that middle-schoolers will be expected to read and write.  Oh well,
    good. :)\r\n\r\n<cite>Given enough time, mainly for the current generation to
    grow old and pass on, the distinctions that are considered important today are
    likely to become unimportant in the future.</cite>\r\n\r\nYeah, I agree with this.\r\n\r\n<cite>I
    could see this going in either direction. CJK unification could be accelerated
    by more exchange and collaboration between outfits from different countries, as
    type designers will try to come up with single forms that will please the mainland
    Chinese as well as the Japanese, Korean as well as the Taiwanese. Then again,
    type designers might choose to emphasize the national differences, even to the
    point of creating differences where there really weren\u2019t any before. In any
    case, it might be a handful of people that end up determining the future of CJK
    font production.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't really see either of these happening.\r\n\r\nOn
    one hand, there's little incentive to make truly unified forms, since memory and
    hard disk space are cheap enough that all modern OSes, and even portable devices
    like iPods, include fonts for all four CJK schemes.  I suppose it could be attempted
    as a cost-cutting move, but if the product doesn't sell, then cutting costs isn't
    worth it.  Besides, I don't know too much about type design, Asian or otherwise,
    but would imagine that a large part of an East Asian type designer's job is piecing
    together elements rather than making 10,000 characters completely from scratch.
    \ To change \u8A8D\u8B58 to \u8BA4\u8BC6seems like it would only require adding
    \u4EBA and \u53EA to \u8BA0 and fiddling a bit with the proportions of the elements.
    \ If I'm right about this, then, for example, converting a Traditional Chinese
    face to a Simplified Chinese one would be a lot easier than making a whole new
    Simplified Chinese face.\r\n\r\nAnd type designers try to sell their work to the
    public, so I can't see them making a concerted effort to create new peculiarities
    that stay confined to their country of origin (AND having it sell).  What COULD
    happen is that a quirky design could become popular in one country, but not in
    the others.  Even this seems unlikely though, given how quickly the same pop faces
    move, say, from Japan to China (with adaptations, of course).\r\n\r\nKen's prediction
    that the differences will just be less important seems much more plausible."
  created: '2008-12-16 02:06:04'
- author:
    name: "\u9577\u6C5F\u4E0A\u7684\u6905\u5B50\u5C0F\u70CF\u9F9C"
  body: "Traditional characters tend to look better in typography. Here is a blog
    post I found that explains this (in Chinese):\r\n\r\nhttp://www.andymao.com/andy/post/49.html\r\n\r\nBriefly,
    it notes that simplified Chinese characters have less variation in density and
    can therefore look quite dull. For example:\r\n\r\n\u5FC3\u81DF\uFF0C\u91AB\u751F
    (traditional Chinese)\r\n\r\n\u5FC3\u810F\uFF0C\u533B\u751F (simplified Chinese)\r\n\r\nWhat
    do you think about this?"
  created: '2011-05-25 12:46:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If <em>that's</em> \"dull\", what about Latin?!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-25 14:29:40'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@hrant:\r\n<cite>If that's \"dull\", what about Latin?! :-)</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    think they mean that printed Chinese on the page has a monotone appearance, like
    Latin text in <em>all caps</em>, as opposed to normal text, mostly in lowercase,
    with ascenders and descenders. But it has variations of its own - simpler characters
    with heavy strokes and complex characters with fine strokes."
  created: '2011-05-26 08:19:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually it sounds like it's a comparison of Traditional vs Simplified.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-26 13:41:51'
date: '2008-02-24 20:34:05'
title: Chinese Typography and Graphic Design

---
