---
author:
  name: deano86
body: "Hi! I\u2019m compiling a list of the 10 most influential classic and contemporary
  typeface, so far I have produced a list as follows;\r\n\r\nClassic typefaces\r\n\r\n1.
  Garamond\r\n2. Gill Sans\r\n3. Bodoni\r\n4. Caslon\r\n5. Palatino\r\n6. Bembo\r\n7.
  Baskerville\r\n8. Clarendon\r\n9.\r\n10.\r\n\r\nContemporary typefaces\r\n\r\n1.
  Avant Garde\r\n2. Helvetica\r\n3. Bell Gothic\r\n4. Franklin Gothic\r\n5. Futura\r\n6.
  Optima\r\n7. OCR- A\r\n8.\r\n9.\r\n10.\r\n\r\nPlease feel free to post your suggestions
  and any changes you feel necessary.\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Would that be the contemporary Franklin Gothic that was designed in 1902?\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2008-02-25 12:55:29'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "... and is that Palatino the classic typeface designed in the 1950\u2019s?
    ;-)\r\n\r\nI think you\u2019re mixing up most influential with most used."
  created: '2008-02-25 13:04:28'
- author:
    name: Will Stanford
    picture: 114286
  body: "Have you considered Univers?\r\n\r\nIt is rather good.\r\n\r\nAnd rather
    important.\r\n\r\nWil"
  created: '2008-02-25 13:29:32'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "http://www.100besteschriften.de/\r\n\r\nThere should be an English version
    of the site as well but I somehow can't find it right now."
  created: '2008-02-25 14:39:04'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: Wouldn't Times make the list? It is overused, but that doesn't mean it was
    not influential.
  created: '2008-02-25 14:45:38'
- author:
    name: venticaratteruzzi
    picture: 114353
  body: "This is the list from an italian point of view:\r\n\r\n1. Minion\r\n2. Bembo\r\n3.
    Garamond Simoncini\r\n4. Bauer Bodoni (may be also the rare OurBodoni by Vignelli)\r\n5.
    Helvetica\r\n6. Gill Sans\r\n7. Frutiger\r\n8. Dante\r\n9. MrsEaves (?)\r\n10.
    Gotham (?)"
  created: '2008-02-25 15:22:24'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Would serif and sanserif be more accurate categories than classic and contemporary?
  created: '2008-02-25 16:01:22'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Walbaum
  created: '2008-02-25 16:55:55'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I think both Mrs. Eaves and Gotham are more "influenced" than "influential".
    Both are new fonts derived from classic sources. If you want influential, you'd
    have to consider including Baskerville (which influenced Mrs. Eaves) and Futura
    (which has influenced a whole lot of contemporary sans including Avenir and Gotham.)
  created: '2008-02-25 17:02:25'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "You\u2019ve pretty much ignored the Venetian types\u2014that\u2019s a pretty
    big miss. Akzidenz belongs on that list; maybe even as #10 on the classics. Franklin
    probably doesn\u2019t belong here, but if it does, it needs to be expanded to
    cover the entire Franklin, Trade, Lightline, etc. Gothic \u201Cfamily.\u201D Univers
    and Frutiger are more important than any other modern font on the list. Optima,
    OCR-A and Bell Gothic? I don\u2019t understand why those would make the list at
    all. \r\n\r\nWhat is the basis for your list? "
  created: '2008-02-25 17:05:59'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "what is the need for lists such as this?\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2008-02-25 18:05:47'
- author:
    name: serif-serif
  body: oh my god, you are ridiculous, you complete amateur . I find the lack of diverse
    knowledge in the world of type some what sickening. I think based on that list
    you should find a new profession my friend.
  created: '2008-02-25 18:11:36'
- author:
    name: murphy.md
    picture: 114291
  body: I think that Comic Sans has been incredibly influential, particularly influencing
    me to vomit whenever I see it.
  created: '2008-02-25 18:45:16'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'So student Daniel joined typophile to post his incomplete and poorly researched
    list and Dean joined typophile to rant about it? Not sure which is sadder. Stoke-on-Trent
    must be a very dull and lonely place. '
  created: '2008-02-25 18:47:46'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: "Serif-serif, there's no need to crap on this thread's creator. It's always
    fun to swap favorites. First list: delete Clarendon (of no importance whatever)
    and add: Sabon, Galliard, and, obviously, Times. The first two kicked off the
    typhoon of new typefaces in our era\u2014more instant classics since 1970 than
    in the entire history of movable type until then. Sabon and Galliard are the St.
    Peter and St. Paul of post-metal type. \r\n\r\nI question your distinction between
    classic and contemporary: a first-rate new face aims to become a timeless classic,
    as Sabon and Galliard certainly have.\r\n\r\nAnd don\u2019t forget to give credit
    to the foundry ITC, which since the late sixties revived interest in typography
    as a living growing creative medium open to newcomers, well before digital and
    Postscript. Adobe moved into a field fertilized and sown by ITC."
  created: '2008-02-25 21:20:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "ITC? Letraset!\r\n\r\nDeano, those are not contemporary typefaces, your selections
    are all pre-digital.\r\nThis industry went digital 20 years ago.\r\n\r\nI can
    recommend \"American Type Design & Designers\" by David Consuegra, for its potted
    history of typography, which provides a good connection between technolgoy and
    design. You will find that influential designs are often prompted by a change
    in technology.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-25 21:41:33'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "mondoB\r\n\r\nhow can you say \"Clarendon (of no importance whatever)\"??!\r\n\r\nYou're
    teh problem with this site, you have idiocy posing as fact. \r\n\r\nyou;ll just
    have to ingore him deano mate, he's cleary a bit of a hack.\r\n\r\n-----------------------\r\nChopper
    Reid says \"Harden the fuck up\".\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-26 05:20:31'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Romain du Roi influenced Baskerville who influenced Bodoni and Didot.\r\n\r\nThe
    face for the London underground by Edward Johnston influenced Gill Sans which
    influenced a number of 20th century sans serif humanist typefaces.\r\n\r\nThe
    roman typeface by Nicholas Jenson is the model for all subsequent roman typefaces.\r\n\r\nThe
    typefaces by Griffo for Aldo Manuzio influenced Garamond.\r\n\r\nArrighi's chancery
    italic has to be considered influential as well.\r\n\r\nPlantin's typeface influenced
    Times New Roman.\r\n\r\nJanson typeface by Nicholas Kis influenced Caslon.\r\n\r\n\xBFCould
    Bell be considered responsible for the XIX century type style?\r\n\r\nFF Scala
    is a \"contemporary\" influential serif face.\r\n\r\nMeta is a \"contemporary\"
    influential sans serif typeface.\r\n\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2008-02-26 06:24:18'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "This is clearly the kind of post which will generate an endless string of
    rants from people who are always passionate in their strong belief of knowing
    the true truth. I've read a lot of intelligent things up there, altogether with
    complete crap (according to me, of course). If we are going in the direction offered
    by Hector, well then the only influential typeface is the first one, for all the
    other ones have been made after it... Well, I guess I have no choice but to give
    my own point of view. According to my understanding of the question, my list of
    typefaces which have \"launched a stylistic / visual trend in typography\", to
    make it simple, would be:\r\n\r\n- Jenson (basically, the first roman type, in
    1465)\r\n- Alde Manuce's italic (by Manuce and Griffo)\r\n- Garamond's Romain
    (A significant upgrade of Jenson's, Manuce's and Griffo's types)\r\n- Grandjean's
    Romain du Roi (Baskerville and Caslon, though skilled artists, were 100% influenced
    by this one)\r\n- Bodoni (a true landmark which inspired many typographers)\r\n-
    Slab serif (again, a significant upgrade to Bodoni, though it's hard to give a
    name to a specific type, for they existed as Egyptians before Clarendon was commercialized)\r\n-
    Caslon two-line egyptian (the true influence to all the grotesks of the late XIXe
    century)\r\n- Akzidenz Grotesk (significant improvement to Caslon IV's egyptian,
    direct influence to Franklin Gothic, Helvetica, Univers et al)\r\n- Erbar (direct
    and aknowledged influence to Futura, which influenced kabel, avant garde, avenir,
    and the handpainted signs of chicago or new york that influenced gotham)\r\n-
    DIN Mittelschrifft (though not designed in an aesthetic purpose, it influenced
    a great deal of typefaces)\r\n- I have to mention Optima, though it can hardly
    be considered as an influence to anything: despite its huge success, it is still
    one of a kind, 50 years after its design.\r\n- Syntax (a truely new style at the
    time, the authentic influence to most of the contemporary typefaces, including
    Stone's types and FF Meta)\r\n- Frutiger (a big improvement on humanistics sans
    serifs which influence you can see on many contemporary designs, including Myriad)\r\n\r\nand,
    I think, that's all. the remaining types are either truely successful and original,
    but didnt influence enough types to be named \"influential\" (Eurostile, FF Cocon,
    FF Dax...), or they just show their parent's eyes or mouth too obviously.\r\n\r\nthat
    of course is open to discussion.\r\n\r\ndr\r\n\r\nEDIT: I consciously omitted
    the script typefaces, otherwise I would have no time to work today."
  created: '2008-02-26 09:22:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don't believe in the great man theory of history, or the great typeface
    theory.\r\n\r\nWith a little knowledge, one can detect trends, ignore what doesn't
    fit in, and construct a narrative.\r\nWhether this has anything to do with the
    motivations of type designers is doubtful.\r\n\r\nTypefaces are designs which
    address complex issues to do with technology, page layout, and type culture--not
    sequels.\r\nAll types, that is, that aren't overly plagiaristic.\r\n\r\nHaving
    said that, I've heard that Bodoni thought Baskerville was the shiz.\r\nBut what
    really compelled Bodoni to go mod and neoclassical, and leave behind the Fournier
    frills of his youth?\r\nNo doubt he was blown away by Baskerville's hard metal,
    smooth paper, and black ink.\r\nBut I would imagine that most <em>contemporary</em>
    typefounders were making the same trip, caught up in the neoclassicism, romanticism
    and modernity of the era, inspired by  revolutions and discoveries, just as we
    are today. For various reasons, one or two are in the history books, three or
    four if you're better read."
  created: '2008-02-26 11:41:10'
- author:
    name: deano86
  body: 'Thanks to everyone who has helped here, this is a great help in my research
    and i shall consider all of your opinions. '
  created: '2008-02-26 11:52:58'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Nick: I do not agree with you. I strongly believe that in the large scale,
    typographers are followers, sometimes they upgrade existing designs with genius,
    but most of the time, they just follow one's path. I think it's a huge mistake
    to think that 2, 3, 10 typographers in the world will create a similar kind of
    type because they are making \"the same trip, caught up in the neoclassicism (...)
    of the era\". I think they are indeed mainly attracted by the commercial possibilities
    of having a type which looks a lot like the successful one from \"this other typographer\".
    You give the example of Bodoni: he always aknowledged Baskerville as his main
    inspiration, and his early types were very close in the design, but he undoubtedly
    came to a design on his own some years later that was widely copied after encountering
    fame and recognition; he spent a lot of his life arguing with Didot for plagiarism,
    as you probably know. When you say that \"typefaces are designs which address
    complex issues to do with technology, page layout, and type culture\u2014not sequels\",
    you are saying a very limited truth, for this is a true definition of, say...
    3, maybe 4% of the total amount of typographers out there. In my opinion, that's
    very idealistic; I am certain that the motives of typographers now and then was
    much more mercantile, even if their names are Morris Fuller Benton, Frederic W.
    Goudy, Eric Gill or Adrian Frutiger - this being said with a sincere respect and
    admiration for their outstanding works.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-02-26 12:12:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sorry David, I don't share your cynicism.\r\nTo speak of mercantilism in
    this way is to banalize the craft.\r\nSure, we address markets, but in a complex
    way.\r\nAlthough I have said, in another thread, that this is a sleazy business
    with a lot of plagiarism, I don't subscribe to the elitist idea of the few, 3%-4%,
    and the many, IMO there is a broad spectrum.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-26 12:22:03'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Dear Nick,\r\n\r\n\"Sorry David, I don\u2019t share your cynicism\"\r\n\r\nthis
    is your right, I am jealous actually.\r\n\r\n\"To speak of mercantilism is to
    banalize the craft.\r\nSure, we address markets, but in a complex way.\r\nI certainly
    don\u2019t subscribe to the elitist idea of the few and the many, IMO there is
    a broad spectrum\"\r\n\r\nYou are right, my answer was a simplification of a truth
    that is probably more complex, but your way of explaining the fact that marketing
    strategy is out of the frame makes me also cringe. And by no way I intend to banalize
    the craft: wonderful designs came out of a strictly \"mercantile\" commission,
    such as Helvetica, Didot or Gill Sans.\r\n\r\ndr\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-26 12:25:31'
- author:
    name: serif-serif
  body: "i consider these as very influential typefaces:\r\n\r\narial\r\n\r\nbauhaus\r\n\r\nbook
    antiqua\r\n\r\ncochin\r\n\r\ncomic sans\r\n\r\neurostile\r\n\r\nhelvetica\r\n\r\nrockwell\r\n\r\nenjoy...."
  created: '2008-02-26 13:29:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">oh my god, you are ridiculous, you complete amateur \r\n\r\n>very influential
    typefaces: ...book antiqua ...arial \r\n\r\nUm, if you are going to sneer at folks,
    it is best to have enough knowledge of the field that you don't make ridiculous
    blunders.\r\n \r\nBook Antiqua is a rip-off of Palatino. It was so egregious that
    it led Hermann Zapf to resign from Atypi. You can read the story [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palatino|here]].
    \r\n\r\nArial has a similar story, which you can read [[http://www.ms-studio.com/articles.html|in
    Mark Simonson's nice article about it.]]\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-26 14:05:50'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "serif-serif, you have got to be kidding here, i hope its just a provocation.\r\n\r\narial...
    bauhaus... book antiqua... comic sans...rockwell...\r\n\r\ni'm gonna quote a contributor
    whom you know well: \"I think based on that list you should find a new profession
    my friend.\"\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-02-26 14:32:22'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I strongly believe that in the large scale, typographers are followers,
    sometimes they upgrade existing designs with genius, but most of the time, they
    just follow one\u2019s path.</cite>\r\n\r\nTypesetters are often followers, but
    not type designers. Type designers are constantly pumping out radical new stuff.
    It\u2019s the typesetters who hold back change by treating their readers as morons
    who should only be expected to read the lowest common denominators and labeling
    anything that departs from the familiar as \u201Cdisplay\u201D type. "
  created: '2008-02-26 15:24:15'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Whoa there James. The concept of \"display\" and \"text\" faces comes from
    an era probably before you were born, where you actually ordered them from different
    compositors. Display type was set in strips and intended for headlines and titles
    and such. Text type was set in galley form and intended for body copy. They have
    very different functions, at least when it comes to book design.\r\n\r\nThe same
    font can exist both in \"text\" and \"display\" form, such as H&FJ Requiem or
    Perpetua.\r\n\r\nAs one who will be needing reading glasses very soon now, I appreciate
    the difference between thoughtfully set text faces for reading copy, and display
    faces to add character. The morons are the designers who think there is no difference
    between display and text faces and who try to foist unreadable text on their poor
    suffering readers."
  created: '2008-02-26 15:40:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Amen! '
  created: '2008-02-26 18:09:28'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "And I should add that all this display and text type was VERY EXPENSIVE.
    Which meant that if you screwed up you often had to live with it. Also meant hours
    messing around with a xerox machine and an x-acto to make sure your type choices
    were the right ones before you ordered it. Display type was priced by the word
    so we used to cheat by making up words out of our initial caps to save money.\r\n\r\nText
    type involved copyfitting, character counts, etc. If you wanted to make an inset
    for a photograph you had to specify how many lines, and copyfit around it.\r\n\r\nBut
    I'm way off topic here.\r\n\r\nOn topic: I do think Clarendon is influential (in
    response to whoever said it isn't). There are a lot of slabs that came out of
    the Clarendon mold."
  created: '2008-02-26 18:34:35'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Tell it! Clarendon good!\r\n\r\nI\u2019m loading the 4\" film now so if anyone
    needs to que\u2026"
  created: '2008-02-26 18:38:19'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: Right now, Fleischmann is looking very influential....
  created: '2008-02-26 18:47:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>your way of explaining the fact that marketing strategy is out of the
    frame makes me also cringe.</em>\r\n\r\nDifferent foundries have completely different
    strategies for productization.\r\nAfter all, there's a world of difference between
    the three main sectors of font production (megacorps, asset-holders, and independents.)\r\nOn
    the corporate side, Linotype is very much driven by the strategy of leveraging
    its brand assets.\r\nThen there's Ale Paul, combining his penchant for scripts
    with Veer customers' insatiable appetite for them.\r\nHouse and Diner have been
    driving the script market as much as following it, synergy.\r\n\r\nMy retail sales
    would be stronger, no doubt, if I turnedd out a few more script fonts, but like
    many independent designers I compromise between doing what interests me and what
    I *think* will sell. But who knows what will sell until it's been designed, produced,
    and put on the market? So what I do is follow my nose, developing ideas that interest
    me, and trying to move them into directions that I anticipate will be useful,
    in other words, that people will buy.\r\n\r\nYeah, I've noticed the Fleischmann
    thing, and it's certainly influenced me--to do the opposite!"
  created: '2008-02-26 20:53:09'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Patty, I\u2019m wasn\u2019t referring to people who might put as much thought
    into it as you did. I was referring to people who lump anything but the \u201Cclassics\u201D
    into the dustbin of display/decorative/novelty and ignore it."
  created: '2008-02-26 21:13:02'
- author:
    name: serif-serif
  body: '[ offensive comment removed by moderator ]'
  created: '2008-02-26 21:49:38'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: Daniel, this is not acceptable.
  created: '2008-02-26 22:06:08'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 'James, I am sure there are plenty of people who get their terminology wrong,
    but at the same time there are lots of designers who use more traditional display
    fonts for text and vice versa. Not that it can''t be done (and done well) of course.
    David Carson famously broke all the rules and that needed to happen, but his followers
    often tried to emulate him without really understanding what he was doing. There
    is a general blurring of the two with the computer, and I am not sure a lot of
    the students and younger members of this forum necessarily know where the terms
    come from. '
  created: '2008-02-26 22:10:33'
- author:
    name: Scalfin
    picture: 114154
  body: ">When you say that \u201Ctypefaces are designs which address complex issues
    to do with >technology, page layout, and type culture\u2014not sequels\u201D,
    you are saying a very limited >truth, for this is a true definition of, say...
    3, maybe 4% of the total amount of >typographers out there.\r\n\r\nYes, but all
    the others follow those 3%\r\n\r\n>>oh my god, you are ridiculous, you complete
    amateur\r\n\r\n>>very influential typefaces: ...book antiqua ...arial\r\n\r\n>Um,
    if you are going to sneer at folks, it is best to have enough knowledge of the
    field that you don\u2019t make ridiculous blunders.\r\n\r\n>Book Antiqua is a
    rip-off of Palatino. It was so egregious that it led Hermann Zapf to resign from
    Atypi. You can read the story here.\r\n\r\n>Arial has a similar story, which you
    can read in Mark Simonson\u2019s nice article about it.\r\n\r\nWhile that is true,
    I would contest that the copies can have had a greater influence, as a multitude
    can be inspired by something made by a man who is the only one to take inspiration
    from another work.\r\n\r\n\r\nI would say that Optima can go with Gill Sans and
    Johnston as one of the originators of humanist sans (and yes, I know Gill is partly
    based off John). They caused type designers to think outside of the geometric
    framework, and made people start thinking about making sans with the same thoughts
    as serifs. Optima might have had an even greater influence in this respect due
    to just how many pieces in broke the mold into (it is probably still the most
    obviously humanist font ever). While I am not a font historian, I can quite confidently
    say that typographers took one look at it and said \"holy sh-t, that actually
    works!\"\r\n\r\nI would have to say that TNR is probably a good idea to include,
    as it is probably the default that stays in the minds of most designers simply
    due to its omnipresence.\r\n\r\nVerdana should probably also be included, not
    because its form is influential, but because the way it was designed set the stage
    for modern designing (at least for the screen, which is why it takes precedence
    over Georgia)."
  created: '2008-02-26 22:17:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Perhaps Hermann Zapf thought Optima was \"the better Stella\" in the way
    that Adrian Frutiger considered Avenir \"the better Futura\".\r\n\r\nOr perhaps
    someone at Linotype said, \"Hermann, we need a sans\".\r\n\r\nOr perhaps it's
    a transcription of ancient stone-carved lettering.\r\n\r\nOr perhaps Zapf thought
    \"Ha--this'll give August [Rosenberger, his punchcutter] a fit!\" \r\n\r\nOr perhaps
    all four and more--the theory being that designs materialize when two or more
    congruent ideas (memes) coincide and fall into place, illuminating one another
    with a touch of synergy, creating meaning.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nAnd Melior is the
    better Optima?!\r\n\r\nI've set out on several occasions to create a news text
    face that is \"a better Utopia\", with something that looks not much like it,
    but with the same character count and apparent size. I suppose I could have used
    Charter or some other benchmark, but I had one client who commissioned me to design
    a face to replace Utopia, so that's the one it's been. An example of momentum,
    ubiquity breeds ubiquity.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-26 23:19:45'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "Dean, you might be categorizing these more as \"fonts that look old\" and
    \"fonts that look new.\" \r\n\r\nIf you want to look at influential fonts of the
    contemporary period vs. influential fonts of the \"classic\" period, you need
    to look at what the creators of these fonts were trying to accomplish. Two fonts
    that I think were very influential on contemporary type design, for example, are
    PMN Caecilia and Syntax, because they brought humanist elements into the world
    of slab serif and sans serif type. Of course, you can trace this idea back to
    older typefaces like Optima, and you start to get a picture that there's a slow
    process of evolution at work in the history of type, and things rarely pop out
    of nowhere.\r\n\r\nIn terms of \"classic\" fonts, you might want to come up with
    a different way to describe these, because \"classical\" typefaces often refer
    to a specific period in type design. \r\n\r\nThe more you study type, the more
    it becomes apparent that classifications are, at best, a way for us to hold a
    public converation about type, just like the music store has to file everything
    under a genre, even if it doesn't fit. All that is to say, do you think this exercise
    will help you in any way? "
  created: '2008-02-27 00:19:39'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "just a little edit: Nick, it's Stellar, not Stella... this is a typo i guess.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-02-27 08:39:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Yes, I always get that muddled, thanks to the Dave Farey/Richard Dawson revival,
    which for some reason I think changed the name, but didn't!
  created: '2008-02-27 17:06:16'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: Thanks, FeeltheKern, for reminding us of how influential Syntax was for years--all
    the new sans type designs that followed that lead...certainly the best index of
    influence. And then Gill Sans seemed to follow Syntax as the must-emulate model
    for new sans designs...
  created: '2008-02-27 17:16:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I designed a humanist sans in the early 1980s, when there weren't many around.\r\nI
    certainly thought of Gill Sans as a precedent, and didn't pay any attention to
    Syntax.\r\nHowever, I had been studying calligraphy at that time, as a means of
    getting inside the cheirographic soul of the typographic tradition, and I think
    that influential idea may have been \"in the air\" at the time -- no doubt reinforced
    by the presentation of Hermann Zapf's calligraphy in the trade media, as being
    an important part of his method."
  created: '2008-02-27 17:32:28'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "MondoB, I covered that point with my reference to Optima. If I was talking
    about the 90s, I wouldn't bring up Helvetica, I'd talk about Meta.\r\n\r\nOf course
    Syntax was born out of Gill Sans, but I'm talking strictly about contemporary
    faces. Syntax had a certain sense of modernity that you don't see in Gill Sans,
    and it touched off a whole new interest in humanist sans.\r\n\r\nA good example
    of this today is Galaxie Polaris http://vllg.com/Village/GalaxiePolaris/. This
    obviously owes a lot to Helvetica -- a lot of people would not be able to tell
    the difference -- but it has a feeling of \"nowness\" that has maybe evaporated
    a bit from Helvetica. The same could be said for Kai Bernau's Neutral. "
  created: '2008-02-27 17:39:08'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "Thanks Nick, that's what I'm trying to get at but didn't say very well. These
    trends in design aren't a concerted effort. They just happen as type designers
    see gaps in the type library and fill in the hole with similar solutions. Syntax
    and PMN Caecilia are just two good examples of large trends in the 80s and 90s
    -- they were very popular, and embodied the idea of humanizing seemingly cold
    and stark slab serif and sans serif typefaces. \r\n\r\nI'm sure if you went back
    in time and told the heads of type foundries 100 years ago what type they'd be
    remembered for, there'd be quite a few that were obvious to them, and quite a
    few that pissed them off."
  created: '2008-02-27 17:51:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Syntax had a certain sense of modernity that you don\u2019t see in Gill
    Sans, and it touched off a whole new interest in humanist sans.</em>\r\n\r\nLike
    I said, I don't buy that theory, which is a connect-the-dots, post-facto application
    of simplistic narrative-style history, operating from face to face. I don't thin
    type design works like that, I certainly don't.\r\n\r\nGill Sans was released
    in the 1920s, Syntax in the 60s. If they were so influential, how come there was
    no bandwagon or critical mass of humanistic sans faces emerging until the 1980s?
    \r\n\r\nI recall Shannon (1982) as another face that I noticed when I was doing
    Shinn Sans, and paid more attention to it than Syntax, as it was, indeed, a contemporary
    face. I didn't really think about Frutiger, it was just too sublime to get a handle
    on!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-27 18:01:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>They just happen as type designers see gaps in the type library and fill
    in the hole with similar solutions.</em>\r\n\r\nGood point, although it begs the
    question of why one would notice a particular gap, or whether some effort is required
    to imagine gaps into existence.\r\n\r\n[Our last posts crossed.]"
  created: '2008-02-27 18:05:10'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "Nick -- I totally agree that the deeper you get into the history of anything,
    the more it shows no clear narrative with starting points and ending points. I
    hinted at that a bit with my original response, where I said \"...you start to
    get a picture that there\u2019s a slow process of evolution at work in the history
    of type, and things rarely pop out of nowhere.\" Of course, we're also talking
    about Top 10 lists in the original post, so I don't think we can have that serious
    of a discussion :)\r\n\r\nMaybe Syntax is debatable, in terms of being the \"epitome\"
    of a certain typographic grouping -- it doesn't neatly stand out as an achievement
    of anything in a historical sense. You could say the same of Helvetica, although
    Helvetica is clearly omnipresent while Syntax is present, but by no means deserving
    of omni- status."
  created: '2008-02-27 18:33:12'
- author:
    name: Scalfin
    picture: 114154
  body: Gill Sans was from Johnston, and may have inspired Optima. It should also
    be noted that many of the "influential" classical fonts are more that 100 years
    old, and they may have had little immediate impact.
  created: '2008-02-27 23:38:27'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Not to mention that 100+ years ago you didn't exactly have people churning
    out new fonts on the computer. Not to diminish the effort of the typographers
    of the new age, I appreciate the hard work that goes into making a finely crafted
    font in any medium.
  created: '2008-02-27 23:52:18'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Scalfin: Optima was drawn almost directly from XVI. century graveyards in
    Italy, I've seen them myself, it was not inspired by Gill Sans whatsoever.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-02-28 08:22:16'
- author:
    name: beth_id8
    picture: 114396
  body: Hey! How could you miss out UNIVERS....?!
  created: '2008-02-28 12:58:06'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"Gill Sans was released in the 1920s, Syntax in the 60s. If they were so
    influential, how come there was no bandwagon or critical mass of humanistic sans
    faces emerging until the 1980s\"\r\n\r\nThis ignores the gestation of certain
    trends, as well as the monentum of existing trends. Can you imagine, in the context
    of the 1970s, a revival of the humanist sans? Absurd. From the release of Syntax
    to the proliferation of desktop type design tools, awareness of this class of
    type grew to a critical state. After that state, many designers identified the
    humanist sans as a distinct class, and believe me, Syntax in that context is very
    influential. It was at the same time that calligraphic type design started to
    really take off, Renaissance classics were being revived by Adobe, and the whole
    x-height, New York ad look was finally falling out of favor. Nick, are you saying
    that Gill Sans had no influence on Meier in his design? There is probably material
    out there illuminating exactly what that influence was. Don't discount that. \r\n\r\nIt's
    worth noting that type designers can point specifically to typefaces that influenced
    their work, whereas graphic designers would consider other designs influential.
    There's a difference between influential and \"classic\", popular or \"important\".
    There are designs that influenced my work that aren't important, classic, popular
    or otherwise prominent. Influence can come from anywhere. It doesn't have to influence
    everyone. Syntax is like that; like a musician that only other musicians have
    heard of but who is revered inside that group. "
  created: '2008-02-28 18:29:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>This ignores the gestation of certain trends, as well as the monentum
    of existing trends.</em>\r\n\r\nWell actually, that's the point I've been making!
    --that types alone don't influence new types, a variety of other factors (\"trends\")
    are in play.\r\n\r\n<em>Nick, are you saying that Gill Sans had no influence on
    Meier in his design?</em>\r\n\r\nYes, in the sense that he didn't discover it
    one day, and decide, \"hey, I'm going to make a humanist sans too\".\r\nNow doubt
    he was aware of Gill Sans as a precedent, but it was, I suspect, other factors
    that sparked Syntax.\r\n\r\nAs David notes re. Optima, it's a little too easy
    to just look at the historical \"narrative\" of type genres and say \"Gill Sans
    inspired Optima\" when in fact Zapf was a calligrapher directly prompted by a
    moment of epiphany and inspiration in a graveyard.\r\n\r\nThere are several ideas
    here that are getting confused: inspiration, precedents and influence.\r\nInspiration
    is the catalyst of the magic moment where one thinks, \"now there's an idea for
    a design\".\r\nPrecedents may effect how one \"works out\" the big idea.\r\nInfluence
    is wishful thinking on the part of historians who would like a simple story, neat
    and tidy.\r\n\r\nCarl, I have no idea what got you started on Beorcana. I'm sure
    you've rationalized it -- but does one really know? \r\n"
  created: '2008-02-28 19:18:22'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: When you study Francisco Goya, he seems to embody so much of what we consider
    modern art, and yet he's completely disconnected from the movement of Modern Art
    (with a capital M). To back up what Carl is saying, maybe Syntax is the George
    Braque of humanist sans typefaces, starting in the 60s and leading up to the present
    -- very influential, but never getting much of the limelight. So I guess if you're
    talking about what's influential, Syntax meets the criteria. But its certainly
    not a Picasso. Gill Sans seems to be the Goya in this instance -- looking at its
    various elements, it seems to live in the humanist sans family, but in the context
    of history, it's not part of any kind of trend or movement. The question then
    is what's the Picasso?
  created: '2008-02-28 19:36:22'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>Gill Sans seems to be the Goya in this instance \u2014 looking at its
    various elements, it seems to live in the humanist sans family, but in the context
    of history, it\u2019s not part of any kind of trend or movement.</em>\r\n\r\n(Pardon
    the self promotion:) As it happens, I'll be addressing this very point in a talk
    on Saturday morning, if anyone near the Twin Cities is interested. Part of an
    art history symposium. Details [[http://www.stthomas.edu/arthistory/undergraduate/files/new%20location%20ART0620.pdf|here]]."
  created: '2008-02-28 20:17:15'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: Whoa! Mind-meld!
  created: '2008-02-28 21:40:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">does one really know?\r\n\r\nI haven't studied the history of design in
    enough depth to answer that for any particular case. But I have studied some advances
    in the history of science in depth. And I found in every case that the scientist
    could describe very clearly the problem he was responding to, and what was new
    in his idea, relative to others he was aware of addressing the same problem. \r\n\r\nI
    bet that Carl can do the same with Beorcana. \r\n\r\nHow we have the creativity
    to come up with a new solution is pretty much an unknown now, so I would agree
    with on that aspect. "
  created: '2008-02-28 22:21:13'
- author:
    name: Scalfin
    picture: 114154
  body: I guess I should have said Gill set the precedent for Optima.
  created: '2008-02-28 23:59:29'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Nick,\r\n\r\nThere is a lot of clear documented history on Optima, on Syntax,
    on Gill, on lots of typefaces. I can indeed remember when certain things became
    important to me or to the development of Beorcana, and none of it is a fabrication,
    post-rationalization, or tidy, marketing-driven \"story\". I'm sorry that you
    distrust what you call the \"historical narrative\", but actually plenty of it
    is ordinary history, and not the gossipy conjecture you seem to be seeing. \r\n\r\nI
    don't think anyone has yet said or implied that there is a single, direct, one-to-one
    cause and effect relationship between one typeface and another in terms of inspiration
    or influence. I think this is another phantom you are swatting at. I think what
    is real, and what people notice, is that among all the influences, the trends,
    the cultural scene that surrounds a designer, sometimes a typeface has a very
    very strong influence or meaning for them, and sometimes they even recognize and
    acknowledge it consciously. \r\n\r\nWhen we say we're standing on the shoulders
    of giants, we are referring to specific people, because of specific work they've
    done. That doesn't erase or negate the rest of the scene. "
  created: '2008-02-29 02:16:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Carl,\r\n\r\nOrdinary history is nothing but gossip, which is the purpose
    of this thread, to bicker about which celebrity typefaces begat which other celebrity
    typefaces.\r\n\r\n<em>That doesn\u2019t erase or negate the rest of the scene.</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    it does. As soon as the gossip starts, the bell curve is replaced by the Lotka
    curve.\r\nAn even distribution of cultural phenomena is replaced by one with a
    few huge winners.\r\n\r\nThis was what happened in experiments conducted by Duncan
    Watts (written up in the Feb. 2008 <em>Fast Company</em>).\r\nIn brief, people
    were asked to rank songs they hadn't heard before.\r\nA fairly equitable ranking
    emerged, with a few songs that did slightly better.\r\nIn another group, the \"social
    influence\" group, people could see each other's rankings--which led to a small,
    elite group of songs becoming enormously popular.\r\nIn another \"social influence\"
    group, same thing, but with different songs rising to the top.\r\n\r\nWatts's
    findings are opposed to Malcolm Gladwell's \"Tipping Point\" theory, and the importance
    it places on \"influentials\".\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-29 06:58:53'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: So historians are in (or simply "are") a "social influence" group. Are designers
    not?
  created: '2008-02-29 13:43:26'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Ordinary history is nothing but gossip\r\n\r\nThat's pretty cynical. We do
    have a choice in how direct our sources are; and obviously everyone has a choice
    how honest they will be about the past. I don't consider the content of an interview
    with, or the working drawings and notes of, the original type designer as 'gossip'.\r\n\r\nThe
    study you cite mixes in \"popularity\", another factor working in parallel with
    influence, inspiration and precedent. It isn't necessarily the same influence
    on a designer (producer) of type as it would be on a user (consumer). But don't
    presume that everyone is equally socially influenced. Now you have switched from
    saying that there can be no direct influence from one typeface to another, to
    saying that every type design is mere residue of crowd behavior, with some achieving
    artificial, arbitrary prominence.\r\n\r\n????"
  created: '2008-02-29 16:49:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Are designers not?</em>\r\n\r\nIs that a rhetorical question Craig?!\r\n\r\nDesigners
    are the worst gossips of all, and their awards competitions the epitome of popularity
    contests.\r\nThe design-celebrity system emerges from these annual events, recorded
    in, er, annuals, providing historians with a neat potted resource of what is \"good\".
    But what has this history of what designers like to do with the history of graphic
    design as it is broadly practised in society? Not much.\r\n\r\nConcerning Gill
    Sans:\r\n\r\nIt's ironic that there were not a plethora of humanist sans faces
    created during the Historicist era (1900-1930), when old-style faces dominated
    typography. But at the time, sans faces were <em> infra dig</em>,  trashed by
    the authorities (eg Updike in the US, Morison in the UK) on down, and rarely used
    in publishing. \r\n\r\nI've looked through magazines and papers from the teens
    and twenties, and been unable to find an example of humanist sans lettering. I
    did find this lovely example of old-style sans lettering by Oswald Cooper, from
    1924, in the Cooper monograph, but note that it is self-promotion--I doubt he
    had any clients interested in this sort of thing.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Cooper_5103.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-29 17:38:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>That\u2019s pretty cynical.</em>\r\n\r\nCarl, you were the one who introduced
    gossip and fly-swatting into this thread.\r\nI was quite happy exploring the notion
    that what designers have to say about their work may be considered somewhat objective,
    coloured by self-interest. But thanks for the idea of design-history-as-gossip,
    I love it! \r\n\r\n<em>I don\u2019t consider the content of an interview with,
    or the working drawings and notes of, the original type designer as \u2019gossip\u2019.</em>\r\n\r\nNeither
    do I, but I would take them with a grain of salt. Sure, they are the raw material,
    the \"facts\" of history, but with plenty of opportunity for self-delusion and
    myth-making--which is a problem for any objective history of graphic design and
    typography. Also, practitioners tend to do self-promotion as well as a lot of
    our own trade coverage, and it's a small industry, so we don't want to throw your
    peers under the bus, when we'll be rubbing shoulders with them at TypeCon. The
    trenchant critics are few and far between. \r\n\r\nMany of those best informed
    about the industry are in the industry. Thankfully these days they don't seem
    to be the over-the-top do-gooder axe-grinders like Updike and Morison (although
    some of our readability proponents are getting up there), but nonetheless, if
    you're making a living writing for foundries and distributors, as well as magazines
    and books, you're going to pull a few punches. Many years ago I wrote a journal
    article criticizing the design of some fonts from a well-known foundry, and have
    always regretted the bad feelings that ensued, so tend to be more circumspect
    about the work of my peers.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-29 18:31:28'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>their awards competitions the epitome of popularity contests</cite>\r\n\r\nNot
    always."
  created: '2008-02-29 19:39:37'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>But what has this history of what designers like to do with the history
    of graphic design as it is broadly practised in society? Not much.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    think this is where I'm not following you. I think of there being a whole lot
    of overlap between \"the history of what designers like to do\" and the \"history
    of graphic design as it is broadly practiced in society.\" \r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019ve
    looked through magazines and papers from the teens and twenties, and been unable
    to find an example of humanist sans lettering.</em>\r\n\r\nI just [[http://typophile.com/node/42671|posted]]
    a 1910 ad to the type id board that might qualify (though maybe it has leetle
    Copperplate-like serifs - hard to tell from the pic I have). "
  created: '2008-02-29 22:02:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I think of there being a whole lot of overlap between \u201Cthe history
    of what designers like to do\u201D and the \u201Chistory of graphic design as
    it is broadly practiced in society.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nIf you look in the design
    history section of bookstores that specialize in the graphic arts, you will find
    that the majority of the books are about modernism. This is especially so for
    the Historicist era, where it's all about Constuctivism and the Bauhaus, which
    went completely unrepresented in popular and commercial media at the time. Don't
    you think that's a bit of a disconnect?!\r\n\r\nAs I've pointed out before, the
    \"Big Idea\" American ads from the 1960s that are in the history books are for
    VW, a small player, not GM, Ford, Chrysler and AMC. As always, design history
    is unrepresentative and misleading about the culture in general, while pandering
    to designers, who are, after all, the people who buy design books.\r\n\r\nMost
    of the books in the Graphic Design History section at Typophile are about the
    Bauhaus, Modernism, and Avant Garde movements -- including Blackwell's remix.
    Of course, this is important stuff for the profession, but in toto it produces
    a highly skewed image of what graphic designers did for a living, which can be
    easily disabused by simply opening any popular magazine from the past. I haven't
    looked at the George Lois book, but I do know that he is a design celebrity, a
    good source of anecdotes and self-promotion; of course, his work is brilliant
    and I LOVE it, but again, he was the rebel creatives look up to, representative
    of the Creative Revolution (as if that doesn't happen all the time) not the mainstream
    against which it reacts, or which follows after.\r\n\r\nMany designers don't fall
    for the big deception, hence the appeal of retro kitsch, ironically repurposed,
    of course.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-29 23:04:27'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: So, to return to the prior analogy, do you see the Chrysler graphic designers
    as akin to Watts' second "social influence" group (whose canon didn't wind up
    in our bookstore-bought histories, like their Volkswagen colleagues' did), or
    was their practice (including their understanding of their relation to past design)
    something different?
  created: '2008-03-01 00:07:48'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "You are right about the graphic design history books, maybe it's because
    we don't like looking at the ugly and irrelevant stuff in terms of graphic excellence.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2008-03-01 01:04:23'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026maybe it\u2019s because we don\u2019t like looking at the ugly
    and irrelevant stuff in terms of graphic excellence.</cite>\r\n\r\nSo instead
    we end up with books full of the same images of the same modernist works followed
    by the the same images of the painfully boring career Paul Rand and his followers.
    Maybe the reason so many designers don\u2019t know the history well is that they\u2019re
    put off by the New York crowd\u2019s myths to spend their time digging into it."
  created: '2008-03-01 02:55:50'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>ugly and irrelevant</cite>\r\nIs that what we want the designers 40
    years from now to say about our work? Those guys, the regular \"Chrysler\" designers,
    and the design climate that they worked in, believed that they were doing good
    stuff.\r\n\r\nI find that Nick's approach, looking at what <em>actually</em> happened
    as opposed to what Meggs wants us to think happened, is as much if not more relevant
    to what most designers do today than the Modernists, and I include type design
    in that as well."
  created: '2008-03-01 04:27:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>do you see the Chrysler graphic designers as akin to Watts\u2019 second
    \u201Csocial influence\u201D group</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think they had much influence.
    They were actually the art directors, creative directors, and copywriters who
    worked for ad agencies that handled the mainstream accounts that didn't want edgy,
    cutting edge creative, so they didn't win many awards, didn't get profiled much
    in trade magazines. But they did alright for themselves.\r\n\r\nIn the 49th Art
    Directors Club Annual, New York, 1970, these are the number of award winning car
    ads: eight for VW, two for Volvo, one for Renault, one for AMC. So the names of
    the creatives involved is in the record. But where are the big three? Their advertising
    budget must have dwarfed that of the award-winners.\r\n\r\nWhat about merit? Weren't
    their ads \"ugly and irrelevant\"? Maybe, maybe not; but that's not the point--do
    you want a history of brilliant doodles in the margins of society, or do you want
    to know what was really going down? Or do you want it all?!\r\n\r\nI'm taken with
    Duncan Watt's music experiment, but l wouldn't discount the possibility that his
    selection of 50 unsigned bands to provide the songs might have been lacking in
    outstanding talent. \r\n\r\nSo here are some possible mechanisms at work in selecting
    historical markers:\r\n\r\nFirstly, pure social influence, which has the effect
    of randomly creating huge favorites from pools of work where there isn't much
    difference in quality.\r\n\r\nSecondly, there are influentials, professional associations
    and networks, and market forces in play, which reinforce a metacultural status
    quo. That was certainly a dimension of the \"creative revolution\" of American
    advertising in the 1960s, that the new advertising got its edge by coming from
    more diverse, up and coming social groups.\r\n\r\nThirdly there is the quality
    of the work, which can occasionally rise above other considerations.\r\n\r\nFourthly,
    there is the possibility of fresh research from original new sources. I was blown
    away by Nicholson Baker and Margaret Brentano's \"The World on Sunday--Graphic
    Art in Joseph Pulitzer's newspaper (1898-1911)\", which revealed a continent of
    graphic design I never knew existed. Well, perhaps it would have been better known
    if it had won some Art Director Club awards, but they didn't start till 1920.\r\n\r\nYou'd
    think that \"being everywhere\", as some typefaces always appear to be, would
    count for something in recorded history. But it's no guarantee. I remember when
    I started work, Souvenir, Korinna and University Roman \"were everywhere\", but
    they didn't feature much in award-winning ads, and they're not the groovy disco
    styles we now associate with the 70s.  \r\n\r\n<em>Now you have switched from
    saying that there can be no direct influence from one typeface to another, to
    saying that every type design is mere residue of crowd behavior, with some achieving
    artificial, arbitrary prominence.</em>\r\n\r\nLet's make a disctinction between
    histories of influence, which are created around historical markers determined
    by the four mechanisms described above (including the mere residue of crowd behavior),
    and the contingencies that influence and inspire type designers individually--which
    may include \"found type\" or lettering one comes across or searches out, along
    with well-known typefaces, as well as all kinds of oblique serendipity, music,
    for instance. I mean, we talk a lot about rhythm in type, and everybody has their
    favorite kind of music which moves them, so I imagine that we would express some
    of that visually.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-01 05:59:27'
date: '2008-02-25 12:00:54'
node_type: forum
title: Influential Typefaces?

---
