---
author:
  name: picard102
  picture: 112137
body: "I hate designing things for myself. I find it impossible as I'm far to close
  to the project. So while I plan to redesign my site and marketing materials, I've
  decided to give my logo another shot.\r\n\r\nI went to the book store and flipped
  through some logo books for about 5 hours yesterday and then came home and sketched
  out some quick ideas on paper playing with the L and D in my companies name. The
  enclosures themselves I'll worry about latter, but for now I want to get opinions
  on the basics of the mark.\r\n\r\nI used a few different typefaces to create these
  comps, Helvetica, Futura, Interstate, ect.\r\n\r\nI'm not looking for something
  flashy in itself. But something that can be used in a variety of ways, in obtrusively
  on client work, distinctive on presentations and marketing material of my own. So
  something like this I think could be used with a few different background lockups
  to either emphasize or subdue it as it's so simple.\r\n\r\nBut maybe it's too simple
  and will be easily confused with other things?\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Will Miller
    picture: 109722
  body: "number 8 encapsulated in a box off to the right reminds me of something but
    i'm not sure what. number 2 is interesting as there's a strange sense of depth
    starting to emerge. i think the D shape is a little off on that one though. and
    as a whole i think alot of the strokes feel inaccurate and out of balance with
    one another. number 9 is interesting too, but again, the shapes feel forced and
    wrong. the counter shape of number 11 is interesting, again, same issue. the D
    stroke feels unbalanced with that strong right angle L\r\n\r\nw|m"
  created: '2008-02-26 00:15:43'
- author:
    name: Tintin81
    picture: 112693
  body: "I really like no. 11. It instantly hit me as a perfect balance of the two
    letters. \r\n\r\nOthers I like would be no. 7 and the box in the upper right corner
    (although you may want to shift the type to the left by about half a pixel).\r\n\r\nAll
    the other versions don't look right to me. \r\n\r\n[[http://www.designbits.de|Web
    Design Portfolio]]"
  created: '2008-02-26 00:15:55'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Of the ones you have the far upper right would be my pick. But what is the
    logo supposed to say about you anyway? What is the intended message? Depending
    on what that is it might be that all of these are wrong.
  created: '2008-02-26 00:16:09'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: "The one is in the cube and circle is just an example of enclosure types that
    any of the numbers could be placed in. The one in it now is 6. \r\n\r\nThe logo
    Isn't supposed to say anything implicitly. I'd like it to represent strength,
    versatility, creativity, what you'd normally expect from a design firms logo.
    I think the letters themselves are a good representation of strength, and the
    rest can be conveyed through different types of enclosures for different purposes."
  created: '2008-02-26 00:31:31'
- author:
    name: TDF
    picture: 111673
  body: No. 9 is a clever use of the negative space - it needs a bit of polishing,
    though.
  created: '2008-02-26 00:54:08'
- author:
    name: nvhladek
    picture: 112094
  body: "I think 2 has the most character.  The 'D' is reminiscent of a speech bubble,
    although only subtly, and suggests communication to me.  I like that one a lot.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not so hot on the rest of them."
  created: '2008-02-26 01:16:22'
- author:
    name: baskervillebold
    picture: 111819
  body: 'I''m feeling the square in the upper right corner as well. It seems like
    a stronger mark to me compared to the others. I can visualize it embossed on business
    collateral. '
  created: '2008-02-26 01:35:58'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Why strength?
  created: '2008-02-26 01:44:00'
- author:
    name: EileenB
  body: 'The one to the top right in the circle feels right to me. Familiar. Hmm. '
  created: '2008-02-26 02:42:30'
- author:
    name: Will Miller
    picture: 109722
  body: "effen vodka? same idea\r\n\r\nw|m[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot_1_3596.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-26 03:03:02'
- author:
    name: lapiak
    picture: 111789
  body: "We have the same company initials :)\r\n\r\nI've been down that road, and
    it's extremely difficult. It took months before I settled down with what I have.\r\n\r\nI
    find 11 and 6/8 to show the most promise! Tweak a bit here and there and you just
    might have something. Good luck!"
  created: '2008-02-26 03:22:29'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "One truth in graphic design is the hardest logo you will ever design is your
    own, and that you'll do it a dozen times in your career, as you'll NEVER be happy
    with it. ;o)\r\n\r\nI'm going to echo what other's said. Box in upper right (with
    some adjustments) and #11 are the ones I'd focus on. (Actually, the circle in
    the upper-right is good, too.)"
  created: '2008-02-26 14:44:05'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: "@ Eben Sorkin:\r\n\r\nI'd like to think strength and boldness communicates
    a comforting confident quality.\r\n\r\n\r\nHere is some refinements and different
    enclosures. Now with colour! Admittedly a bit garish colours on the lower half,
    those will be replaced with less vibrant colours. The idea is still that the mark
    itself is the letter forms, but that the enclosure can be swapped out to suit
    a specific need or mood.\r\n\r\nFive plays on the speech bubble aspect mentioned.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Logo2_4451.jpg]\r\n\r\nMy
    girlfriend happened to say that the square version reminded her of the TD Bank
    \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/120px-TD_logo_svg_4246.png]"
  created: '2008-02-27 06:21:41'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Do you mind if I make a visual suggestion? I ask because it can do violence
    to the integrity of a process if it is uninvited.\r\n\r\nI think your girlfriend
    makes a good point.\r\n\r\nI wonder too about using broken lines rather than curves.
    Or breaking the lines more than once. Or breaking them at an angle. What about
    a lc d? Sort of a : \"dL\"\r\n\r\nYour pinwheels are fun. What's that about?\r\n\r\nMy
    sense is that confidence can be shown in any of a wide variety of ways. The path
    chosen is not just confident. It's also a bit macho. The pinwheels work against
    that. I am not saying either thing is good or bad. I sense* that you are sort
    of shrugging your shoulders to a certain extent at my questions about intention
    even as you answer them. But I want to urge you again to think about your intended
    communication to clients. There are good counter arguments, but think there are
    far more validating ones. Here are two: the more you are certain of your intent
    the more you are inspired by it to think of options that fit; but more importantly
    a sense of intent saves time because it makes it easy to kill the many many ideas
    that are outside your intent. \r\n\r\n* Maybe I am making a mistake here but that's
    how it seems.\r\n\r\nKeep going."
  created: '2008-02-27 06:59:57'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: Go ahead and make a visual suggestion.
  created: '2008-02-27 07:07:31'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Obviously I am not taking my own advice here & designing only into your examples
    and the idea of strength. If you find these useful feel free to use or build on
    them.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/4ld_5451.gif]"
  created: '2008-02-27 07:39:52'
- author:
    name: EileenB
  body: "I like Eben's first one a lot, but as long as we're playing, I'd try the
    slashes thicker.  I might also try an oval-ish circle that matches the curve of
    the D? \r\n\r\nEileen"
  created: '2008-02-27 11:30:37'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: "I tried to do some diagonals that were a bit thicker.\r\nI'm not sure I like
    it. It reminds me of the mid 90's and the horrible futuristic themes fonts. It
    seems less refined to me and puts more emphasis on the shape being a D itself
    rather then an L and a D.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Logo3_4754.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-27 14:04:38'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Those last two aren't bad. I think the circle needs to be larger to give
    more padding to the the D, though.\r\n\r\nOf your previous batch, things were
    getting a bit busy there. However, #5 was quite interesting...forming the L and
    D and an Apostophe. The apostrophe adds an extra 'aha!' to it."
  created: '2008-02-27 14:50:43'
- author:
    name: ofisia
    picture: 128351
  body: "Yes, the 'apostophe' version is more eye-catching to me too.\r\n\r\nGrid
    based approach like Mr. Eben Sorkin's bottom left example is worth to try too
    IMHO. Although it might be ineffective when turned monochrome :)\r\n\r\nBut if
    do choose to continue developing your last design, referencing the right-hand
    version, maybe it would look more harmonious to the bottom slice if the 'L' is
    slanted or obliqued.\r\n\r\nGood luck!"
  created: '2008-02-27 21:12:18'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Like TDF, I find the original #9 intriguing and would be interested to see
    if its awkwardness could be worked out. Part of its appeal is in conveying letters
    in two different types, which could suggest a design firm with the ability to
    produce a wide range - to have command over various ways of communicating depending
    on the client's needs.\r\n\r\nThe first of the two in the 6:04 post looks like
    one of those circle-and-slash signs: \"No D's allowed\"\r\n\r\nIf you might pursue
    the apostrophe one, could you thicken the L? - it looks lopsided to me."
  created: '2008-02-27 22:27:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I agree the diagonals dont seem to work. They can be seen too many ways. The
    one you did on the left looks like a "no D" sign a little. LD is kind of funny
    too because it can sound like "el dee" and "eldy". What is the company name?
  created: '2008-02-27 22:40:59'
- author:
    name: Scalfin
    picture: 114154
  body: Maybe you should try blackletter or something.
  created: '2008-02-28 02:06:57'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: "I stayed away from blackletter and serifs in general because I tend to dislike
    them personally.\r\n\r\nTo address the motive Eben brought up here are some of
    the things I jotted down while drawing.\r\n\r\nIdeal Messages: professional; fun;
    dedicated; timeless; confident; strong; minimalistic; creative; flexible; solid.
    \r\n\r\nThe company name is Leschinski Design.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-28 04:41:21'
- author:
    name: Scalfin
    picture: 114154
  body: If all else fails, you could use a RaMBam abreviation, with LeschDe, or something.
    (or, in my case, ScAlFin)
  created: '2008-02-28 05:09:16'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: The domain is already leschinskidesign.com and gets a fair bit of organic
    traffic.
  created: '2008-02-28 05:14:24'
- author:
    name: Scalfin
    picture: 114154
  body: I meant as an alternative line of thought for the logo if you hit a wall w/
    this one.
  created: '2008-02-28 05:18:34'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I think you have a good relevant direction then, apart maybe from \"Fun\".
    These designs are serious so far - except for the pinwheels.\r\n\r\nJust for fun
    I made these from CMYK and C&M. Also, P22 Underground Pro\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dots_5272.jpg]"
  created: '2008-02-28 06:47:39'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: "I think some of the original marks are best, and suggest that you pick your
    3 favorites and work them up to [close to] perfection, then try drafting them
    in a few realistic contexts (letterhead, biz cards, bottom of client's site) rather
    than in pinwheels.  :)\r\n\r\nBest of luck!  I've been failing to finish my own
    branding for a year now...\r\n\r\n---\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/eeblet/\r\nLive
    near Oakland?  Now in Jack London Square on Sundays: screamsorbet.com"
  created: '2008-02-29 02:07:45'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "This is such a terrible venue for such a personal project. You have nice
    ideas. Don't listen to others or you will be bound to question yourself, which
    is a bad thing in this peculiar situation. Just finish it and be done with it.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-02-29 06:10:42'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: 'I really liked the No.7. '
  created: '2008-02-29 12:47:00'
- author:
    name: ofisia
    picture: 128351
  body: "Uhm...\r\nI guess Mr. Paul Cutler's opinion was right. And I should appologize
    for misleading you to take any of my previous suggestions. It is a designer's
    main task to solve problems at his/her highest capacity. In this case, since no
    client is involved, you should be free to do anything you like with your own logo.\r\n\r\nOf
    all those designs you've made, pick a few that you think the most effective as
    an identity. Then you could let us vote (only vote, not giving suggestions) and
    help you narrow it down to the final design.\r\n\r\nGood luck! (again)"
  created: '2008-03-01 22:45:44'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: I'm now working on some stationary for this logo. I've attached a collage
    of the options so far in the first post, but you can see them bigger at http://www.flickr.com/photos/picard102/
  created: '2008-07-10 05:35:56'
- author:
    name: ZUZ3L
    picture: 115403
  body: "I really liked no. 5. as it looks like L & D, AND a quotation mark... I think
    that's good when designing visual communication?\r\n\r\nI like the ideas of many
    colors in the logo as well. It's not done \"right\" tough I think. You might wanna
    take a look at http://bt.com/ .. that is, in my opinion a nice colorful logo..."
  created: '2008-07-12 13:58:07'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: Alright, so I guess I should have made a separate thread for the stationary
    then.
  created: '2008-07-12 14:39:03'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: "Well, I'm finally putting this logo to print. But after a year of using it
    online I'm beginning to wonder about my type paired with the logo. \r\n\r\nCurrently
    I use helvetica, but I was thinking about something less neutral like Gotham,
    but that isn't as overused as gotham is since the last election.\r\n\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/LD-Final_6517.jpg]\r\n\r\nIs
    helvetica a good enough pairing, or should I try another?"
  created: '2009-02-06 08:18:42'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: "Although I'm drawn to helvetica, in this case maybe something with a little
    more personality? Also I think the type and symbol should have some kind of relation,
    e.g. the symbol is round, Helvetica isn't. for instance the dot on 'i'. Maybe
    try Avenir?\r\n\r\nI also belief that if you go with the 'neutral sans'-route,
    the weight of typography and monogram in the circle should match closer. Personally
    I would look for a bit more  difference and look for a Serif which complements
    the symbol.\r\n\r\nThat said, it's looking good already. Would like to see how
    you would apply it tyo a businesscard."
  created: '2009-02-06 14:46:18'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "Two minds, similar thoughts. This guy have done something very similar to
    your logo.\r\nhttp://logopond.com/members/profile/16150\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-06 15:31:32'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: "Here is where I was with the business cards before thinking about changing
    the type. I've never been a big fan of serif's, but I'm open to suggestions what
    would pair well with the monogram.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/businesscard_6428.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    guess it wasn't too long before someone else figured out they could put an L and
    D together."
  created: '2009-02-06 18:26:22'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "I realize it's a year too late, but how about something along these lines:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ld-mark_6002.png]\r\n.\r\nPerhaps
    make the left stroke of D spiral even further inwards."
  created: '2009-02-06 20:27:40'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: Tried that, looked far too much like the TD logo.
  created: '2009-02-06 20:37:31'
- author:
    name: designtn
    picture: 113015
  body: "I would go with your visceral instinct regarding the mark, simple is better.\r\nWe
    all tend to over think our own designs. It's the nature of the beast.\r\nWhat
    you have as your Typophile icon I think works well.\r\nAs for typography, maybe
    try a bold Helvetica?\r\nIt looks simple and classic.\r\nI Hope hope that helps.\r\n\r\n:tony"
  created: '2009-02-07 01:14:01'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: "Maybe I should just stick with Helvetica. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/3262486068_574f7afb00_b_4124.jpg]"
  created: '2009-02-08 05:05:15'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Estrangelo for me (except for 'g' in 'Design').\r\n\r\nBTW, have you considered
    using either all caps or small caps ?"
  created: '2009-02-08 05:24:00'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: "Yes, I didn't think it worked out too well with most of them. Only Futura
    and Gotham seemed okay in all caps.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LD-Final2_6375.jpg]"
  created: '2009-02-08 05:29:25'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "Estrangelo's caps don't look too bad either.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2009-02-08 05:51:26'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Both of Avenir options and Din and Gotham in small caps look decent.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    I'd look at Locator and, as an alternative to Sans Serifs, - at Centaur."
  created: '2009-02-08 06:41:50'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: "Is there any advantages or disadvantages that I'm not seeing other then decreased
    readability and a general heavyness/uninviting with an all caps option?\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-08 07:34:08'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: Well, that's where it all rapidly becomes subjective. To me the all caps version
    actually reads better due to the greater uniformity of the letter shapes. I am
    not you though :) This logo is meant to reflect your traits, so in the end it
    only makes sense to go with what <em>you</em> like the best.
  created: '2009-02-08 08:09:30'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: 'Interesting. I was under the impression that the varying height in mixed
    case words allowed for easier readng, where as caps made it all one uniform shape.
    Your not the only one to suggest all caps though, so maybe I was mistaken. '
  created: '2009-02-08 09:04:07'
- body: "You're correct that lower case is easier to read. It's not really subjective.
    Several studies have been done on this topic. \r\n\r\nHere's [[http://books.google.com/books?id=iJE-UcPqUTcC&pg=PA62&lpg=PA62&dq=typography+uppercase+lowercase+readability&source=web&ots=8parphD2B6&sig=bYOMsAdLEgFYRzmHRUXoJ-cfagY&hl=en&ei=C7KOSbSQH5jAtgfAmdGYCw&sa=X&oi=book_result&resnum=5&ct=result#PPA62,M1|one
    explanation]] that's fairly well illustrated."
  created: '2009-02-08 10:24:23'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: "That's probably where I got that idea from. Have the book.\r\n\r\nDoes it
    matter with a company title though, as it's so short?\r\n"
  created: '2009-02-08 14:48:55'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: What I said above applies to the case of two words used as a word mark. I
    think the benefits of using lower case for continuous text are quite obvious,
    I didn't mean to imply the opposite.
  created: '2009-02-08 16:10:01'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "Avenir title caps\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2009-02-09 03:37:40'
date: '2008-02-25 23:59:14'
title: Design Firm Logo

---
