---
author:
  name: addison
body: I just noticed the &#34;coming soon&#34; announcement on Adobe&#39;s <a href="http://www.adobe.com/type/topics/opticalsize.html"
  target="_blank">type page</a> in the bottom right corner. Is this the new Garamond
  that Slimbach has been working on? I&#39;m assuming the optical sizes are what makes
  this version significant? Is it more historically accurate?
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Optical sizes are probably the single most important change, but I&#39;m sure
    Slimbach is also applying everything he&#39;s learned since making the original
    Adobe Garamond &#40;which was once handily trounced in an exhaustive -and in places
    exhausting- review in the APHA journal&#41;. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-04-12 22:55:11'
- author:
    name: victor
  body: Do you have a full reference for that? &#40;Or even more of a lead?&#41; Thanks.
    <BR> <BR>Victor
  created: '2004-04-12 22:57:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Victor, you mean the APHA thing? <BR>Check out the first hit for &#34;Garamond&#34;
    here: <BR><a href="http://www.printinghistory.org/htm/journal/contents.html" target="_blank">http://www.printinghistory.org/htm/journal/contents.html</a>
    <BR>&#40;Pages 69-106, in case you need to do a &#34;blind copy request&#34; from
    somewhere.&#41; <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-04-12 23:13:07'
- author:
    name: victor
  body: Perfect -- that&#39;s it. Thanks! <BR> <BR>Victor
  created: '2004-04-12 23:19:05'
- author:
    name: addison
  body: Victor, <BR>If you want more on Slimbach&#39;s new Garamond, here&#39;s this
    <a href="http://typographi.ca/000486.php#000486" target="_blank">link</a> from
    Typographi.ca, but I don&#39;t know anything else. I was hoping someone else would...
    <BR> <BR>Hrant, <BR>I&#39;ll admit that Adobe Garamond is a well-made font family,
    but I&#39;ve always thought it was kind of, well, plain &#40;I don&#39;t know
    what problems APHA found&#41;. Stempel Garamond has more character in my opinion,
    which I know can be a bad thing in some cases. George Abram&#39;s Augereau--which
    I like--was missed by many, but when the digital version came out, I never heard
    a peep. I also thought Tiro&#39;s Garamond was nice, but I never heard much about
    it either. I wonder how this one will be received...
  created: '2004-04-12 23:20:32'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: I love Adobe Garamond.  The US editions of the Harry Potter books &#40;don&#39;t
    say anything&#41; are set in it
  created: '2004-04-12 23:54:28'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Well, I&#39;ll admit to knowing a fair bit about it, though I can&#39;t comment
    on much of it. <BR> <BR>The new Garamond is more closely modeled on historical
    masters, including having optical sizes. I don&#39;t know whether Rob was influenced
    by or even aware of the critique in the APHA Journal &#40;knowing him, I&#39;d
    be inclined to guess not on both counts!&#41;, but I believe that every typeface
    he has done since 1991 has had optical size variants. <BR> <BR>In the new Garamond,
    each optical size is a completely distinct. Combining that with the extensive
    multilingual support &#40;CE, Greek and Cyrillic&#41;, and an extensive set of
    added typographic functionality, it is one of the most ambitious typefaces Rob
    has ever done. Personally, I also think it&#39;s one of the best, from what I&#39;ve
    seen so far. <BR> <BR>Partly because it hews closer to the Garamond originals,
    and partly because Rob had different objectives on this one, I think the new Garamond
    is also more &#34;flavorful&#34; than Adobe Garamond &#40;or Minion, for that
    matter&#41;. <BR> <BR>On the side, I find it interesting that some of the Typophiles
    on this board criticize Adobe Garamond and Minion for having insufficient &#34;flavor&#34;
    or distinctiveness. I subscribe to the &#34;crystal goblet&#34; theory of typography,
    which suggests that the goal of typography ought to be to show off and subtly
    enhance the message, without drawing attention to itself. I think workhorse typefaces
    like Minion and Adobe Garamond do that extremely well, while some of the typefaces
    that are put forward as superior alternatives have more flavor, but as a result
    are simply not as versatile. <BR> <BR>In my personal point of view, what will
    be really interesting to see in the new Garamond is how well Rob is able to make
    it more flavorful without much reduction in versatility. <BR> <BR>Rob&#39;s recent
    work seems to me to explore the boundaries of the possibilities in flavor versus
    versatility &#40;kind of like a production possibilities frontier curve in economics&#41;.
    Good examples of pretty masterful stabs at this in his recent work are Warnock
    and Brioso. They take different spots on the flavor/versatility curve, but they
    both seem to me to be pretty much at the maximum bounds for combining the two.
    That is, neither could have more of one without a reduction in the other. <BR>
    <BR>Regards, <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-04-13 00:48:34'
- author:
    name: addison
  body: Chris, <BR>First, anyone who says they haven&#39;t read Harry Potter is either
    lying or an over-the-top religious fanatic. Secondly, Adobe Garamond is a very
    readable, workhorse of a font family and I have great respect for it. My downfall
    in typography is that, currently, I prefer types with some quirkiness which, I&#39;ll
    admit, is not preferable in book typography. Adobe Garamond is kind of vanilla
    to me, but that is probably one of its greates attributes according to the &#34;crystal
    goblet&#34; theory &#40;you&#39;re right Mr. Phinney&#41;. <BR> <BR>Mr. Phinney,
    thanks for the teaser. I have great respect for Mr. Slimbach and his work -- I
    wouldn&#39;t expect my opinion to mean a hill of beans to him. Jenson and Warnock
    are two of my favorites along with Cronos, which I think is a beautiful humanist
    sans. Much of the feeling about Garamond and Minion may be due to their frequent
    appearance in books, magazines, annual reports, ads, and so on and so forth, but
    that probably only reinforces how usable they are. I certainly look forward to
    the new Garamond -- that&#39;s why I started this thread. <BR> <BR>Thanks, <BR>Addison
  created: '2004-04-13 01:28:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'From what I know, Slimbach was not only aware of the APHA review, but it
    actually affected him deeply, and directly motivated him to start working on an
    improved interpretation. As for casting him as some sort of hermit who doesn&#39;t
    pay attention to what&#39;s going on outside: yes, he virtually never shares any
    of his insight, but many &#40;maybe most&#41; of his designs are clearly based
    -even motivated- by what <i>other people</i> have thought and felt. &#34;Dzour
    nsdink, shidag khosink&#34; - let&#39;s sit crooked but talk straight. <BR> <BR>The
    Crystal Goblet business: I think it should be pretty obvious by now that -at least
    in this dimension- Warde was being a cheerleader for Morison&#39;s blind ideology.
    There can be no crystal goblet as long as a human being is involved in the making
    of something. And there <i>should</i> be no crystal goblet as long as the point
    of making something is other humans. <BR> <BR>That said, I do agree that versatility
    and individuality are largely opposed, and Slimbach has often struck the balance
    well. But not any more. At the moment, and for the forseeable future, we simply
    don&#39;t need any more blandness, please. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-04-13 01:31:37'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: '&#62; Slimbach has often struck the balance well. But not any more.... we
    simply don&#39;t need any more blandness, please. <BR> <BR>So you consider his
    recent work such as Warnock, Brioso, or the optical size extensions to Utopia
    to all be bland? <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2004-04-13 04:49:54'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: Hrant, what did this APHA review say?
  created: '2004-04-13 04:52:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'I think &#34;flavor&#34; isn&#39;t about how angular or dynamic the letterforms
    might be, it&#39;s maybe about how the letterforms -and their groupings- have
    <i>unexpected</i> features &#40;even though I do agree with you when you imply
    that this reduces readability - but there&#39;s much more to type design than
    readability&#41;. To be fair, Warnock does have a bit of this &#40;it&#39;s very
    clearly Slimbach&#39;s best work&#41;, but all the other fonts Slimbach has ever
    made &#40;with the possible exception of ITC Slimbach - a design that I think
    he should consider taking another look at, to see what he might have lost since
    making it&#41;, including Brioso&#42;, are simply too polished&#42;&#42; - not
    enough humanity in them, heck, not enough Robert Slimbach in them! Also, to me
    optical size extensions are a technical thing, not &#34;flavor&#34;. <BR> <BR>&#42;
    Which furthermore suffers from being too much like Rialto. <BR> <BR>&#42;&#42;
    Something you must have noticed numerous people have against many Adobe fonts.
    BTW: The best design in your entire library? Kinesis MM. <BR> <BR>Chris, look
    at the page range, dude. :-&#41; <BR>But basically the reviewer says the font
    doesn&#39;t do the original justice. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-04-13 05:15:07'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: Yet another Garamond... is this something like the refried movies?
  created: '2004-04-13 06:08:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <i>Combining that with the extensive multilingual support &#40;CE, Greek and
    Cyrillic&#41;...</i> <BR> <BR>Thomas, is the Greek based on Garamond&#39;s Grecs
    du roi, or has Robert devised his own Greek companion design?
  created: '2004-04-13 07:47:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Regarding the APHA review of Adobe Garamond, this needs to be read not merely
    as an exhaustive critique of this typeface but also of the whole method of digital
    revivals at that time. Adobe Garamond was one of the first of such revivals, so
    the APHA article is especially interesting as a critical response not only to
    Robert&#39;s design but also to digital type in general. <BR> <BR><i>The best
    design in your entire library? Kinesis MM.</i> <BR> <BR>Yikes, something else
    that Hrant and I agree on.
  created: '2004-04-13 07:52:21'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: '&#34;Chris, look at the page range, dude. :-&#41;  <BR>But basically the
    reviewer says the font doesn&#39;t do the original justice. &#34; <BR> <BR>Am
    I missing something?  There&#39;s no way to read the article is there?'
  created: '2004-04-14 05:16:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'You mean online? Not that I know of. But you could always do it the old-fashioned
    way: order a back issue; or maybe find a local university library to do an InterLibraryLoan
    for you. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-04-14 05:53:06'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: bah
  created: '2004-04-18 05:51:09'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'I went and pulled out my copy of Printing History #26/27. I just thought
    I&#39;d note that there are &#42;two&#42; reviews of Adobe Garamond in that issue.
    The one by Mark Argetsinger is quite critical, as Hrant notes. The one by Jerry
    Kelly is quite complimentary. After some minor criticisms, Kelly says that &#34;nonetheless,
    Adobe Garamond is the most accurate derivation of Claude Garamond&#39;s types
    done to date, and a significant addition to the world&#39;s typographical resources.
    In fact, some of the face&#39;s less immediately obvious features contribute substantially
    to its beauty, and bear discussion.&#34; The summation at the end of his review
    is in a similar vein. <BR> <BR>As for the Argetsinger review, it is quite interesting
    as well. His main criticisms of Adobe Garamond are that it: <BR> <BR>- diverges
    more than needed from the original, particularly in areas of regularization <BR>
    <BR>- is based on Garamond&#39;s punches without regard for their impression on
    paper &#40;the latter being the way the types appeared in actual use&#41; <BR>
    <BR>- lacks optical size variants <BR> <BR>Some time next week I&#39;ll comment
    more on the origins of Slimbach&#39;s new Garamond. <BR> <BR>Regards, <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2004-04-18 08:43:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: You&#39;re honestly comparing the breadth and depth of Argetsinger&#39;s piece
    with Kelly&#39;s? <BR> <BR>&#62; Adobe Garamond is the most accurate derivation
    of Claude Garamond&#39;s types done to date <BR> <BR>1&#41; One could say that&#39;s
    not saying much... <BR>2&#41; What does &#34;accurate&#34; really mean? I have
    to wonder if Kelly really knew the field, either in terms of what Garamonds have
    been made and what &#34;accuracy&#34; in type design really can be. Like what
    about Stempel Garamond? Wouldn&#39;t you say that the &#34;roughness&#34; in the
    Stempel makes it more authentic = accurate? <BR> <BR>I think Slimbach&#39;s efforts
    towards making a &#34;real&#34; digital Garamond are highly commendable. I just
    hope he can tame the Northern California disease of &#34;cuteness&#34; in the
    process, otherwise we&#39;ll just end up with a fancier version of the current
    Adobe Garamond. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-04-18 20:07:03'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: There you go putting words in my mouth. I did no such thing. However, I thought
    it was odd that you made repeated references to the negative review without mentioning
    the positive one. I gave more details on both. <BR> <BR>I can&#39;t tell you what
    Jerry Kelly meant. I don&#39;t know him, and haven&#39;t talked to him about the
    review. You&#39;d have to ask him. <BR> <BR>As for me, I am not all that fond
    of the extra angularity in Stempel Garamond. The lowercase &#34;a&#34; in particular
    bothers me. The shortened &#34;f&#34; is also a little irksome. But it is still
    among the better Garamond revivals. <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-04-18 20:26:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; I thought it was odd that you made repeated references to <BR>&#62;
    the negative review without mentioning the positive one. <BR> <BR>I&#39;d actually
    forgotten about the positive one, even though I&#39;d photocopied it along with
    the negative&#42;. But I think that&#39;s only because it&#39;s not nearly as
    significant a contribution. The Argetsinger piece is a venerable elephant among
    font reviews. To me it&#39;s not highly worthwhile mentioning all other Adobe
    Garamond reviews ever written in the same breath, especially not one that seems
    to have been tacked on as political appeasement. On my end, I found it &#34;odd&#34;
    that you were casting the two reviews as equals. <BR> <BR>&#42; In fact you&#39;ll
    notice that the page range that I gave covers both - I simply didn&#39;t notice
    that those last five pages of my copies were not the end of the Argetsinger piece.
    <BR> <BR>And if I&#39;m indeed exhibiting some partiality &#40;even though I really
    do try to see -and point out- good things in Slimbach&#39;s oeuvre&#41;, at least
    it&#39;s not constantly and consistently for my employer. <BR> <BR>&#62; I am
    not all that fond of the extra angularity in Stempel Garamond. <BR> <BR>Well maybe
    I&#39;m not either &#40;although actually I am&#41;, but my point here was that
    &#34;accuracy&#34; business. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-04-18 20:59:35'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: '&#62; And if I&#39;m indeed exhibiting some partiality &#40;even though I
    really do try to see -and point out- good things in Slimbach&#39;s oeuvre&#41;,
    at least it&#39;s not constantly and consistently for my employer.  <BR> <BR>Do
    you have a full-time employer in this business? If not, it&#39;s a false comparison.
    Further, are you really incapable of seeing that I spent as much of my last post
    explaining what Argetsinger critiqued as I did noting Kelly&#39;s praise? <BR>
    <BR> <BR>On the other hand, I work for Adobe in large part because I like many
    things that the company has done and continues to do. I have turned down job offers
    from companies both larger and smaller than Adobe in the last couple of years.
    So sure, I like Adobe pretty well. If I didn&#39;t, I&#39;d be working for somebody
    else or self-employed. <BR> <BR>In any case, if you want to continue the move
    toward personal attacks, I will just go back to my &#34;never respond to Hrant
    ever under any circumstances&#34; policy. It&#39;s a shame that you can&#39;t
    draw the line that most people do between discussion of ideas and assaults on
    people&#39;s character. <BR> <BR>Back on topic, I don&#39;t see that the extra
    angularity of Stempel Garamond is particularly more &#34;accurate&#34; in the
    Argetsinger sense of reproducing the original Garamond ink on paper effect. In
    fact, I would say that having more rounded shapes is &#34;more accurate&#34; in
    that sense. That&#39;s why I brought it up in response to your question. But it&#39;s
    hard to say what exactly Kelly meant; as you say, his review does not have the
    depth of Argetsinger&#39;s. <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2004-04-18 21:56:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I quite like Stempel Garamond, but it is not particularly accurate in the
    sense of being closely based on Claude Garamond&#39;s types. It is more accurate
    than the large number of &#39;Garamonds&#39; that are based on Granjon&#39;s types,
    but that really isn&#39;t saying much. The angularity is, as Thomas indicates,
    the feature of Stempel Garamond that is actually least like Garamond&#39;s types.
    <BR> <BR>Having spent several months with photographic enlargements of Garamond&#39;s
    printed types stuck up around the studio while Ross was working on his 1530 Garamond,
    I know some things about them. Angular they ain&#39;t.
  created: '2004-04-19 07:23:25'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Hrant wrote: <BR> <BR>&#34;From what I know, Slimbach was not only aware
    of the APHA review, but it actually affected him deeply, and directly motivated
    him to start working on an improved interpretation.&#34; <BR> <BR>I finally got
    around to talking to Rob about this today. He says it only &#34;affected him deeply&#34;
    to the extent that it irked him. He mostly paid attention to the criticism of
    the lack of optical size, and that was something that he was already aware of
    and had been continuing to do more with in his newer designs. <BR> <BR>If one
    looks at the chronology, in 1989 Adobe Garamond was released. It included a set
    of titling caps. In 1991, Minion was released, including a full &#34;display&#34;
    font. At the same time, Minion MM was under development, which further extended
    the optical sizes to cover everything in the typeface from 6 pt to 72 pt. <BR>
    <BR>I&#39;m not sure if Minion MM had shipped yet, but this was the context in
    which Robert read Argetsinger&#39;s review, which appears to have come out in
    early 1992. So from Rob&#39;s point of view, it was just jumping on the bandwagon
    of what was already happening in Rob&#39;s design in the intervening several years
    since Adobe Garamond had come out. There were no new insights for him. <BR> <BR>Robert
    does acknowledge a major outside influence on his new Garamond, but it&#39;s not
    that article. Instead, it&#39;s an optical size experiment Stephen Harvard put
    together in 1989. Harvard was on the Adobe type review board at the time, and
    was a big Garamond fan. He did an experiment with a lower-case Garamond &#34;a&#34;
    interpolating from a small size to a display size. Rob thought this was very interesting.
    But the temporal and technical constraints Rob was working with made it impractical
    to do anything with this idea at the time. <BR> <BR>Regards, <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2004-04-26 20:44:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Thanks for asking him directly. <BR> <BR>&#62; [Harvard] did an experiment
    with a lower-case Garamond <BR>&#62; &#34;a&#34; interpolating from a small size
    to a display size.  <BR> <BR>Bridget Lynn Johnson did that two years prior. In
    fact she analyzed a number of characters and even came up with an interpolation
    formula! The formula is linear, however, which tells me ol&#39; Garamont was good
    at optical scaling, but not exceptionally so. Look to the ATF boys &#40;they were
    engineers&#41; for the pinnacle in optical scaling. <BR> <BR>BTW, I&#39;d still
    love to see Harvard&#39;s work too - if you can dig that up that would be super.
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-04-26 21:23:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; the ATF boys <BR> <BR>To be fair to Linotype &#40;as Kent has made
    me realize&#41;, it should be said that towards the end &#40;like with their Primer
    typeface&#41; they probably rose to the same level that ATF had been - although
    it&#39;s significant how much later that was; the Lino boys could easily have
    done exactly what I&#39;ve done in extracting the optical scaling smarts from
    the ATF efforts. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-04-26 21:28:40'
date: '2004-04-12 22:39:41'
title: Slimbach&#39;s new Garamond

---
