---
author:
  name: kentlew
  picture: 110411
body: "I'd like to draw on the collective multilingual knowledge of the Typophile
  community to assemble the different forms of ordinal numbers in various languages.\r\n\r\nA
  brief refresher for those who need it: <em>Ordinal</em> means the form of a number
  when it indicates \"order\" -- for example, in English the ordinal form of \"one\"
  is \"first.\"\r\n\r\nI'm also interested in the abbreviated forms.\r\n\r\nTo start
  us off . . .\r\n\r\n<strong>English</strong>:\r\n\r\none = first = 1st\r\ntwo =
  second = 2nd <em>(2d is also acceptable in some style guides)</em>\r\nthree = third
  = 3rd <em>(3d is also acceptable in some style guides)</em>\r\nfour = fourth = 4th\r\nfive
  = fifth = 5th\r\nsix = sixth = 6th\r\nseven = seventh = 7th\r\neight = eighth =
  8th\r\nnine = ninth = 9th\r\nten = tenth = 10th\r\n\r\neleven = eleventh = 11th\r\ntwelve
  = twelfth = 12th\r\nthirteen = thirteenth = 13th\r\nfourteen = fourteenth = 14th
  \r\nand so forth: 15th, 16th, 17th, 18th, 19th\r\n\r\ntwenty = twentieth = 20th\r\ntwenty-one
  = twenty-first = 21st\r\ntwenty-two = twenty-second = 22nd\r\ntwenty-three = twenty-third
  = 23rd\r\ntwenty-four = twenty-fourth = 24th\r\nand so forth: 25th, 26th, 27th,
  28th, 29th\r\n\r\none hundred = one hundredth = 100th\r\nand so forth: 101st, 102nd,
  103rd, 104th . . .\r\n\r\nI think that covers all the patterns in English.\r\n\r\nI
  realize some other languages have genders, which may further complicate matters.\r\n\r\nWho's
  next?\r\n\r\n-- Kent.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "(Brand new user here)\r\n\r\nThe rule in Danish is very simple: add a period
    after any cardinal number to turn it into an ordinal number, so \u20184.\u2019
    means \u20184th\u2019, for example.\r\n\r\n1 en/et = f\xF8rste = 1. [\u2018En\u2019
    is common, \u2018et\u2019 is neuter\u2014no other numerals are declined according
    to gender in Danish]\r\n2 to = anden = 2.\r\n3 tre = tredje = 3.\r\n4 fire = fjerde
    = 4.\r\n5 fem = femte = 5.\r\n6 seks = sjette = 6.\r\n7 syv = syvende = 7.\r\n8
    otte = ottende = 8.\r\n9 ni = niende = 9.\r\n10 ti = tiende = 10.\r\n\r\n11 elleve
    = ellevte = 11.\r\n12 tolv = tolvte = 12.\r\n13 tretten = trettende = 13.\r\n14
    fjorten = fjortende = 14.\r\n15. femten = femtende = 15.\r\n16 seksten = sekstende
    = 16.\r\n17 sytten = syttende = 17.\r\n18 atten = attende = 18.\r\n19 nitten =
    nittende = 19.\r\n\r\n20 tyve = tyvende = 20.\r\n21 enogtyve = enogtyvende = 21.\r\n22
    toogtyve = toogtyvende = 22.\r\n23 treogtyve = treogtyvende = 23.\r\n\u2013 &c.
    The formula is [single number + \u2018og\u2019 + multiple of ten, written as one
    word for numerals under 100].\r\n\r\n30 tredive = tredivte/tredvte = 30. [Both
    forms are accepted]\r\n40 fyrre = fyrretyvende = 40.\r\n50 halvtreds = halvtredsindstyvende
    = 50.\r\n60 tres = tresindstyvende = 60.\r\n70 halvfjerds = halvfjerdsindstyvende
    = 70.\r\n80 firs = firsindstyvende = 80.\r\n90 halvfems = halvfemsindstyvende
    = 90.\r\n\r\n100 (et) hundred/hundrede = hundrede = 100. [Both \u2018hundred\u2019
    and \u2018hundrede\u2019 are accepted as the cardinal number, only \u2018hundrede\u2019
    as the ordinal number]\r\n101 (et) hundred(e) og en/et = (et) hundred(e) og f\xF8rste
    = 101.\r\n\r\n200 to hundrede = to hundredede = 200.\r\n201 to hundrede og en/et
    = to hundrede og f\xF8rste = 201.\r\n&c.\r\n\r\n1.000 = tusind/tusinde = tusinde
    = 1.000. [\u2018Tusind\u2019 and \u2018tusinde\u2019 both accepted as cardinal,
    only \u2018tusinde\u2019 as ordinal]\r\n1.001 = (et) tusind og en/et = (et) tusind
    og f\xF8rste = 1.001.\r\n1.100 = et tusind et hundred(e) = et tusind et hundrede
    = 1.100. <em>\u2014 OR:</em>\r\n1.100 = elleve hundred(e) = ellevehundrede = 1.100.\r\n1.101
    = elleve hundred(e) og en/et = elleve hundred(e) og f\xF8rste = 1.101.\r\n\r\n2.000
    = to tusind(e) = to tusinde = 2.000.\r\n2.100 = to tusind(e) et hundred(e) = to
    tusind(e) et hundred(e) = 2.100. <em>\u2014 OR:</em>\r\n2.100 = enogtyve hundred(e)
    = enogtyve hundrede = 2.100.\r\n&c.\r\n\r\n1.000.000 = en million = millionte
    = 1.000.000.\r\n2.000.000 = to millioner = to millionte = 2.000.000.\r\n\r\n1.000.000.000
    = en milliard = millardte = 1.000.000.000.\r\n&c.\r\n\r\n<p>&nbsp;</p>\r\n\r\n<p>&nbsp;</p>\r\n\r\nNotes:\r\n\r\n1.
    \u2018100\u2019 and \u20181.000\u2019 can be said with or without the cardinal
    \u20181\u2019 before them, as in English. If no cardinal is said, there is no
    indefinite article (as there would be in English), since the indefinite article
    is the same as the cardinal number one. So \u2018hundred(e) og fjorten\u2019 is
    the same as \u2018a hundred and fourteen\u2019, while \u2018et hundred(e) og fjorten\u2019
    is the same as \u2018one hundred and fourteen\u2019.\r\n\r\n2. Unlike in English,
    an ordinal followed by a noun is not always used with a definite article: \u2018for
    otteogtredivte gang\u2019 (\u2018for <em>the</em> thirty-eighth time\u2019), \u2018jeg
    bor p\xE5 niende sal\u2019 (\u2018I live on <em>the</em> ninth floor\u2019), &c.\r\n\r\n<p>&nbsp;</p>\r\n\r\n<p>&nbsp;</p>\r\n\r\n<p>&nbsp;</p>\r\n\r\n<p>&nbsp;</p>\r\n\r\nTo
    be honest, there are few points in this list I\u2019m not entirely sure of. For
    one thing, I\u2019m not sure if \u2018101st\u2019 should properly be written out
    as \u2018(et) hundred(e) og f\xF8rste\u2019 or \u2018(et)hundred(e)ogf\xF8rste\u2019.
    I <em>think</em> the first is the only correct option, but I can\u2019t find any
    definitive answer from Dansk Sprogn\xE6vn (the Danish Language Council).\r\n\r\nAnd
    some of these are so extremely rare as ordinal numbers that I had to look them
    up to find out what their ordinal forms are. I\u2019ve never seen or heard \u2018milliardte\u2019
    used. I also don\u2019t think most Danes are aware the ordinal form of \u2018hundred(e)\u2019
    is just \u2018hundrede\u2019. My first guess at spelling it, before checking with
    the dictionary, was \u2018hundredende\u2019, which is how anyone would most likely
    say it out loud.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-27 19:21:30'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Janus --\r\n\r\nWelcome. Thanks for this contribution. Very thorough. It's
    interesting that the rule for abbreviation is so simple. I would think this could
    lead to some confusion. But perhaps Danes don't abbreviate ordinals that often.\r\n\r\nWho
    else? What about French, Italian, Spanish, Dutch, and German?\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-27 23:23:51'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "The German rule is pretty much the same as the Danish: add a dot after the
    number. Boring, huh? ;\xB0)\r\nDan once <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/typeoff/876524974/\">found
    a gravestone</a> that exhibits an abbreviated notation more like it is common
    in English or French \u2013 but that\u2019s absolutely unusual.\r\n\r\nApart from
    the 4 declensions (neuter, female, male, plural), there is the form that one would
    use in enumerations: with -tens\r\n\r\n1 eins (<em>n</em> ein, <em>f</em> eine,
    <em>m</em> einer <em>pl</em> einen) = erstens (<em>n</em> erstes, <em>f</em> erste,
    <em>m</em> erster, <em>pl</em> ersten) = 1.\r\n2 zwei = zweitens (zweites, zweite,
    zweiter, zweiten) = 2.\r\n3 drei = drittens (drittes, dritte, dritter, dritten)
    = 3.\r\n4 vier = viertens = 4.\r\n5 f\xFCnf = f\xFCnftens = 5.\r\n6 sechs = sechstens
    = 6.\r\n7 sieben = siebtens/siebentes [latter is formal and unusual] = 7.\r\n8
    acht = achtens = 8.\r\n9 neun = neuntens = 9.\r\n10 zehn = zehntens = 10.\r\n\r\n11
    elf = elftens = 11.\r\n12 zw\xF6lf = zw\xF6lftens = 12.\r\n13 dreizehn = dreizehntens
    = 13.\r\n14 vierzehn = vierzehntens = 14.\r\n\r\n20 zwanzig = zwanzigstens = 20.\r\n21
    einundzwanzig = einundzwanzigstens  = 21.\r\n22 zweiundzwanzig = zweiundzwanzigstens
    \ = 22.\r\n\r\n100 (ein)hundert = hundertstens (hundertstes, hundertste, hundertsten)
    \ = 100.\r\n101 (ein)hundert(und)eins = hunderterstens  = 101.\r\n\r\n1000 (ein)tausend
    = tausendstens (tausendstes, tausendste, tausendster, tausendsten)  = 1000.\r\n\r\nF"
  created: '2008-02-28 00:23:12'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Spanish has variant forms in the written out numbers (e.g., decimoprimero
    and und\xE9cimo for eleventh), and after about 20 people don't really remember
    how to say them anyways like in English, but here goes.  Most numbers change as
    follows:\r\n\r\nSegund<u>o</u> (masculine singular)\r\nSegund<u>a</u> (feminine
    singular)\r\nSegund<u>os</u> (masculine plural)\r\nSegund<u>as</u> (feminine plural)\r\n\r\nAll
    numbers ending in -ero (1st and 3rd) also have a variant form used when placed
    in front of masculine singular nouns:\r\n\r\nPrim<u>er</u> (masculine singular
    in front of noun)\r\nPrimer<u>o</u> (masculine singular elsewhere)\r\n\r\nThe
    abbreviations are formed by using the number in digit form plus a period and a
    raised lowercase ending (underlined in the examples).  In practice the period
    can be placed directly beneath the letter or omitted. Note in my examples I'm
    not superscripting the letters because I can't on here.  Unicode has \xBA and
    \xAA, but not the er, os, and as variants.\r\n\r\n1 uno/una = primer/o/a/os/as
    = 1.er 1.o 1.a 1.os 1.as\r\n2 dos = segundo/a/os/as = 2.o 2.a 2.os 2.as\r\n3 tres
    = tercero/a/os/as = 3.er 3.o 3.a 3.os 3.as\r\n4 cuatro = cuarto/a/os/as = 4.o
    4.a 4.os 4.as\r\n5 cinco = quinto/a/os/as = 5.o 5.a 5.os 5.as\r\n6 seis = sexto/a/os/as
    = 6.o 6.a 6.os 6.as\r\n7 siete = s\xE9ptimo/a <i>-or-</i> s\xE9timo/a/os/a = 7.o
    7.a 7.os 7.as\r\n8 ocho = octavo/a/os/as = 8.o 8.a 8.os 8.as\r\n9 nueve = noveno/a/os/as
    <i>-or- </i>nono/a/os/as = 9.o 9.a 9.os 9.as\r\n\r\n10 diez = d\xE9cimo/a/os/as
    = 10.o 10.a 10.os 10.as\r\n11 once = und\xE9cimo/a/os/as <i>-or-</i> decimoprimero/a/os/as
    <i>-or-</i>onceno/a/os/as = 11.er 11.o 11.a 11.os 11.as\r\n12 doce = duod\xE9cimo/a/os/as
    <i>-or-</i> decimosegundo/a/os/as <i>-or</i>doceno/a/os/as = 12.o 12.a 12.os 12.as\r\n13
    trece = decimotercero/a/os/as <i>-or-</i> decimotercio/a/os/as = 13.er 13.o 13.a
    13.os 13.as\r\n14 catorce = decimocuarto/a/os/as = 14.o 14.a 14.os 14.as\r\n15
    quince = decimoquinto/a/os/as = 15.o 15.a 15.os 15.as\r\n16 diecis\xE9is = decimosexto/a/os/as
    = 16.o 16.a 16.os 16.as\r\n17 diecisiete = decimos\xE9ptimo/a/os/as = 17.o 17.a
    17.os 17.as\r\n18 dieciocho = decimoctavo/a/os/as = 18.o 18.a 18.os 18.as\r\n19
    diecinueve = decimonoveno/a/os/as <i>-or-</i> decimonono/a/os/as = 19.o 19.a 19.os
    19.as\r\n\r\n20 veinte = vig\xE9simo/a/os/as = 20.o 20.a 20.os 20.as\r\n21 veintiuno
    = vig\xE9simo primero / vig\xE9simo primera/os/as = 21.o 21.a 21.os 21.as \r\n30
    treinta = trig\xE9simo/a/os/as = 30.o 30.a 30.os 30.as\r\n40 cuarenta = cuadrag\xE9simo/a/os/as
    = 40.o 40.a 40.os 40.as\r\n50 cincuenta = quincuag\xE9simo/a/os/as = 50.o 50.a
    50.os 50.as\r\n60 sesenta = sexag\xE9simo/a/os/as = 60.o 60.a 60.os 60.as\r\n70
    setenta = septuag\xE9simo/a/os/as = 70.o 70.a 70.os 70.as\r\n80 ochenta = octog\xE9simo/a/os/as
    = 80.o 80.a 80.os 80.as\r\n90 noventa = nonag\xE9simo/a/os/as = 90.o 90.a 90.os
    90.as\r\n100 cien/ciento = cent\xE9simo/a/os/as = 100.o 100.a 100.os 100.as\r\n123
    ciento treinta y tres = cent\xE9simo vig\xE9simo tercer/o/a/os/as = 123.er 123.o
    123.a 123.os 123.as \r\n\r\nAnd so on.  i don't feel like tying out the rest,
    but basically you have\r\n\r\n[number] + [period] + [raised er/o/a/os/as]\r\n\r\nWith
    the er only being used for 1 and 3.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan
    fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura,
    por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-02-28 00:57:02'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "Somebody correct me if I'm wrong, but French is (with the numeral suffixes
    in superscript):\r\n\r\n1 un(e) = premier/premi\xE8re = 1er/1re\r\n2 deux = deuxi\xE8me
    = 2e\r\n3 trois = troisi\xE8me = 3e\r\n...\r\n\r\nThe rest just follow the same
    pattern: add \"-i\xE8me\" to the cardinal number, add a superscript 'e' to the
    numeral. I'm pretty sure even numbers that end with a 1 just add \"-i\xE8me\"
    (e.g. vingt et uni\xE8me, 21e). I've also seen a superscript \"i\xE8me\" after
    the numeral but I'm not sure how common that is.\r\n\r\n - Lex\r\n\r\nEDIT: Fixed
    spelling of \"trois\"."
  created: '2008-02-28 01:31:33'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "<strong>Dutch:</strong>\r\n\r\neen (or \xE9\xE9n) = eerste = 1e\r\ntwee =
    tweede = 2e\r\ndrie = derde = 3e\r\nvier = vierde = 4e\r\nvijf = vijfde = 5e\r\nzes
    = zesde = 6e\r\nzeven = zevende = 7e\r\nacht = achtste = 8e\r\nnegen = negende
    = 9e\r\ntien = tiende = 10e\r\n\r\nelf = elfde = 11e\r\ntwaalf = twaalfde = 12e\r\ndertien
    = dertiende = 13e\r\nveertien = veertiende = 14e\r\nand so forth - 15e, 16e, 17e\r\n\r\ntwintig
    = twintigste = 20e\r\neenentwintig = eenentwintigste = 21e\r\ntwee\xEBntwintig
    = twee\xEBntwintigste = 22e\r\ndrie\xEBntwintig = drie\xEBntwintigste = 23e\r\nvierentwintig
    = vierentwintigste = 24e\r\nand so forth - 25e, 26e, 27e\r\n\r\nhonderd = honderste
    = 100e\r\nand so forth\r\n\r\nI believe officially numbers to twenty are written
    out full in Dutch; \xE9\xE9n, twee, drie .. elf, zestien, etc. (1, 2, 3 ... 11,
    16). The factors of ten aswell; twintig, dertig, veertig (20, 30, 40). And also
    the rounded numbers above that; honderd, driehonderd, duizend, vijftienhonderd,
    achttienhonderd, etc. (100, 300, 1000, 1500, 1800).\r\nAdditionally for 1e, 2e
    and 3e, etc. also in use is/was: 1ste, 2de, 3de, etc. \r\nThe difference between
    'een' and '\xE9\xE9n', I think, is usually made if it stands next to the word
    'een' in a text, which means 'a' or 'an' (a house) in Dutch. Or if you want to
    emphasize that it is <em>really</em> only one of something.\r\n\r\nOther Dutch
    speakers, please correct any mistakes I may have made. :)"
  created: '2008-02-28 03:40:19'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<dl>The way the ordinals are formed in Russian is pretty complex. \r\nFirst,
    their form depends on the <em>gender</em> (male/female/neutral), e.g., 1st:<dd>(m)
    1-\u0439;\r\n(f) 1-\u044F;\r\n(n) 1-\u0435.</dd></dl>\r\n<dl>Second, their form
    varies with the <em>number</em> (singular/plural):<dd>(m,s) 1-\u0439; (m,p) 1-\u0435;\r\n(f,s)
    1-\u044F; (f,p) 1-\u0435;\r\n(n,s) 1-\u0435; (n,p) 1-\u0435. </dd></dl> \r\n<dl>Third,
    their form depends on the case of <em>declension</em>. There are six cases in
    modern Russian: nominative, genitive, dative, accusative, instrumental, and prepositional:,<dd>(m,s,n)
    1-\u0439; \r\n(m,s,g) 1-\u0433\u043E; \r\n(m,s,d) 1-\u043C\u0443; \r\n(m,s,a)
    1-\u0433\u043E; \r\n(m,s,i) 1-\u044B\u043C; \r\n(m,s,p) 1-\u043E\u043C.\r\n</dl>So
    every ordinal number can easily have up to 36 forms, many of which <em>look</em>
    and <em>sound</em> the same. Cool, huh?"
  created: '2008-02-28 04:46:11'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "It would be helpful to identify the cases where the ordinal forms of the
    language may cause ambiguities when old-style numerals are used.\r\n\r\nIn Greek,
    I think there is a way of forming ordinals by attaching an omicron at the end
    of the arabic numerals. Then you don't want to have a font where it is difficult
    to distinguish the zero and a small omicron. In Georgia (the font you are probably
    reading this in), for example, 19\u03BF (nineteenth) and 190 (one hundred ninety)
    are not the easiest to tell apart, though to its credit it does its best to make
    the troublesome letters distinguishable on screen."
  created: '2008-02-28 05:20:09'
- author:
    name: Scalfin
    picture: 114154
  body: Should I ask a Hebrew teacher I know about this?
  created: '2008-02-28 05:22:04'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Thanks all, so far. This is fascinating. English seems to have the most \"exceptions\"
    with \"st\" \"nd\" and \"rd\" abbreviations.\r\n\r\nMaxim -- <em>Declining</em>
    ordinals? Yikes. Are the abbreviations ever superscripted, as sometimes occurs
    in English?\r\n\r\nAs Matthew (guifa) notes, the ordinal abbreviations in Spanish
    are typically superscripted. The English ones, only sometimes (much debate in
    some circles). Presumably, the languages that use only periods wouldn't superscript
    them. \r\n\r\nI believe the French are fond of superscripting in certain circumstances.
    True? What about Dutch ordinal abbreviations?\r\n\r\nScalfin, Hebrew is not a
    particular focus of mine personally, but I'm sure it would add to this compilation
    if you wanted to explore this.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-28 13:39:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Great thread! I was just going through the same process. Thanks, Kent!\r\n\r\nMaxim,\r\nHow
    often do you see ordinals in Cyrillic languages?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-28 13:53:41'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Hey Jelmar,\r\n\r\nyou haven\u2019t included my favourite  Dutch word (apart
    from \u2018sinaasappelsap\u2019, that is): <strong>\u2018achtentachtigste\u2019
    </strong> [the 88th]. ;\xB0) Try pronouncing that, as a Non-Dutchman!\r\n\r\nF"
  created: '2008-02-28 14:23:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Florian, I can't even begin to say it :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-28 15:11:02'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "I adore the word <em>sinaasappelsap</em>, as well. And now <em>achtentachtigste</em>,
    too. :-)\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n<cite>It\u2019s interesting that the rule for abbreviation
    is so simple. I would think this could lead to some confusion. But perhaps Danes
    don\u2019t abbreviate ordinals that often.</cite>\r\n\r\nActually, no, it very
    rarely leads to any problems or misunderstandings. The only ambiguity is when
    the ordinal is last in a sentence, since it is then indistinguishable from a cardinal;
    but even in such situations, context is usually enough to differentiate them quite
    easily.\r\n\r\nOrdinals of more complex numbers are usually avoided in speech,
    though. Instead of saying <em>seks hundrede og toogtres tusind fire hundrede og
    seksogfirsindstyvende</em> (662,486th), most people would paraphrase and say <em>nummer
    seks hundrede og toogtres tusind fire hundrede og seksogfirs</em> (number 662,486)
    instead. This also goes (even more so, actually) for numbers that end in 100,
    1,000, 1,000,000, 1,000,000,000, &c., since those have such awkward ordinal forms.\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n<cite>Maxim
    \u2014 Declining ordinals? Yikes.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou should try Finnish, then.
    No genders, thankfully, but all numerals (cardinals and ordinals alike) are declined
    in all <a href=\"http://www.cs.tut.fi/~jkorpela/finnish-cases.html\" title=\"Finnish
    cases\">15 or so cases</a> both in the singular and the plural (yes, numerals
    in Finnish have both singular and plural forms! I\u2019ll just ignore them here,
    though). And for complex numbers, <em>all</em> constituents of the numeral have
    to be declined, so \u2018three hundred and fifty-seventh\u2019 in the allative
    case, for example, would literally be \u2018to-third to-hundredth to-fiftieth
    to-seventh\u2019. And they\u2019re written as one big long word, too (but that
    goes for all numerals).\r\n\r\nA simple example, since the entire system is too
    complex to even hint at here, using 357th to go by:\r\n\r\nFormula (see below
    for abbreviations and explanation):\r\n[Num]. [C nom] [C part] [C gen] [C ess]
    // [O nom] [O part] [O gen] [O ess]\r\n\r\n3. kolme kolmea kolmen kolmena // kolmas
    kolmatta kolmannen kolmantena\r\n100. sata sataa sadan satana // sadas sadatta
    sadannen sadantena\r\n5. viisi viitt\xE4 viiden viitena // viides viidett\xE4
    viidennen viidenten\xE4\r\n10. kymmenen kymment\xE4 kymmenen kymmenen\xE4 // kymmenes
    kymmenett\xE4 kymmenennen kymmenenten\xE4\r\n7. seitsem\xE4n seitsem\xE4\xE4 seitsem\xE4n
    seitsem\xE4n\xE4 // seitsem\xE4s seitsem\xE4tt\xE4 seitsem\xE4nnen seitsem\xE4nten\xE4\r\n\r\nPutting
    those together to form 357 is quite simple:\r\n\r\nC nom: kolmesataaviisikymment\xE4seitsem\xE4n\r\nC
    part: kolmeasataaviitt\xE4kymment\xE4seitsem\xE4\xE4\r\nC gen: kolmensadanviidenkymmenenseitsem\xE4n\r\nC
    ess: kolmenasatanaviiten\xE4kymmenen\xE4seitsem\xE4n\xE4\r\n\r\nO nom: kolmassadasviideskymmenesseitsem\xE4s\r\nO
    part: kolmattasadattaviidett\xE4kymmenett\xE4seitsem\xE4tta\r\nO gen: kolmannensadannenviidennenkymmenennenseitsem\xE4nnen
    *\r\nO ess: kolmantenasadantenaviidenten\xE4kymmenenten\xE4seitsem\xE4nten\xE4\r\n\r\n\r\nAbbreviations:\r\nC
    = cardinal\r\nO = ordinal\r\nnom = nominative\r\npart = <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Partitive_case\"
    title=\"Partitive case\">partitive</a>\r\ngen = genitive\r\ness = <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Essive_case\"
    title=\"Essive case\">essive</a>\r\n\r\nThe singular stem (and the plural stem
    in many words, but thankfully not in the ordinals) is used to form all cases except
    the nominative and partitive, which often have stems of their own. It exists in
    two <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consonant_gradation#Finnish\" title=\"Gradation
    in Finnish\">grades</a>, strong and weak. The genitive singular always gives the
    weak grade, while the essive singular always gives the strong grade (this isn\u2019t
    true for all declensions, but it\u2019s true for the numerals). It is thus necessary
    to know both the nominative and partitive for both the singular and plural, as
    well as the genitive and the essive singular, for any word in order to be able
    to decline it correctly.\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\nAs numerals, the Finnish do the
    same as the Danes and Germans: add a simple period after the last number. To be
    honest, I\u2019m not sure how they handle the cases. With cardinals, they simply
    add the (vowelless) case ending to the number, separated (as is common in Finnish)
    by a colon, so \u2018in 357 houses\u2019 would be written as <em>357:ss\xE4 talossa</em>
    (or <em>kolmessasadassaviidess\xE4kymmeness\xE4seitsem\xE4ss\xE4 talossa</em>).
    But it doesn\u2019t seem likely that \u2018in the 357th house\u2019 would be written
    as <em>357.:ss\xE4 talossa</em> (or <em>kolmannessasadannessaviidenness\xE4kymmenenness\xE4seitsem\xE4nness\xE4
    talossa</em>).\r\n\r\n\r\n* That word took about half an hour to type. Cripes.\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\nAll
    right, moving on to something slightly easier: Chinese.\r\n\r\nIn Chinese, to
    make a cardinal into an ordinal, you simply prefix it with the character \u7B2C
    (d\xEC). It\u2019s always written out as a character, and it\u2019s spoken where
    and as it\u2019s written, whether the numeral itself is written as Chinese numeric
    characters or as Arabic numerals.\r\n\r\nThus:\r\n\r\n1 <em>or</em> \u4E00 (y\u012B)
    => \u7B2C1 <em>or</em> \u7B2C\u4E00 (d\xEC y\u012B)\r\n36 <em>or</em> \u4E09\u5341\u516D
    (s\u0101nsh\xEDli\xF9) => \u7B2C36 <em>or</em> \u7B2C\u4E09\u5341\u516D (d\xEC
    s\u0101nsh\xEDli\xF9)\r\n\r\nA lot simpler. ;-)\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\nI\u2019d
    give you some info on Irish ordinals, as well, but I can barely wrap my head around
    half of those myself, so I should do some more research before trying my hand
    at it. Irish numerals are notoriously complex and tricky."
  created: '2008-02-29 01:56:18'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Hebrew, ordinals: 1st to 10th:\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nFeminine\r\n\u05E8\u05B4\u05D0\uFB2A\uFB4B\u05E0\u05B8\u05D4
    \   \r\n\uFB2A\u05B5\u05E0\u05B4\u05D9\u05EA \r\n \uFB2A\u05B0\u05DC\u05B4\u05D9\u05E9\u05B4\u05D9\u05EA
    \    \r\n\u05E8\u05B0\u05D1\u05B4\u05D9\u05E2\u05B4\u05D9\u05EA\r\n\u05D7\u05B2\u05DE\u05B4\u05D9\u05E9\u05C1\u05B4\u05D9\u05EA\r\n\u05E9\u05B4\u05C1\u05E9\u05BC\u05B4\u05C1\u05D9\u05EA\r\n\u05E9\u05C1\u05B0\u05D1\u05B4\u05D9\u05E2\u05B4\u05D9\u05EA\r\n\u05E9\u05C1\u05B0\u05DE\u05B4\u05D9\u05E0\u05B4\u05D9\u05EA\r\n\u05EA\u05BC\u05B0\u05E9\u05B4\u05C1\u05D9\u05E2\u05B4\u05D9\u05EA\r\n\u05E2\u05B2\u05E9\u05C2\u05B4\u05D9\u05E8\u05B4\u05D9\u05EA\r\n\r\nMasculine\r\n\u05E8\u05B4\u05D0\u05E9\u05C1\u05D5\u05B9\u05DF\r\n\u05E9\u05C1\u05B5\u05E0\u05B4\u05D9\r\n\u05E9\u05C1\u05B0\u05DC\u05B4\u05D9\u05E9\u05C1\u05B4\u05D9\r\n\u05E8\u05B0\u05D1\u05B4\u05D9\u05E2\u05B4\u05D9\r\n\u05D7\u05B2\u05DE\u05B4\u05D9\u05E9\u05C1\u05B4\u05D9\r\n\u05E9\u05B4\u05C1\u05E9\u05C1\u05BC\u05B4\u05D9\r\n\u05E9\u05C1\u05B0\u05D1\u05B4\u05D9\u05E2\u05B4\u05D9\r\n\u05E9\u05C1\u05B0\u05DE\u05B4\u05D9\u05E0\u05B4\u05D9\r\n\u05EA\u05BC\u05B0\u05E9\u05C1\u05B4\u05D9\u05E2\u05B4\u05D9\r\n\u05E2\u05B2\u05E9\u05C2\u05B4\u05D9\u05E8\u05B4\u05D9"
  created: '2008-02-29 03:26:37'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> It\u2019s interesting that the rule for abbreviation is so simple\r\n\r\nTurkish
    is the same (e.g  ordinal that used in titles '7.' = yedinci, seventh; streets
    -- '12. Sokak' = 12th Street)"
  created: '2008-02-29 03:59:49'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "<em>kolmantenasadantenaviidenten\xE4kymmenenten\xE4seitsem\xE4nten\xE4</em>\r\nAh
    yes, I once took a Finnish class. I had to stop because of tongue and cheek cramps,
    not to mention lack of oxygen. Kissa on sovala or something about a cat and a
    sofa is all I remember."
  created: '2008-02-29 04:01:34'
- author:
    name: Urquell
    picture: 113239
  body: "Ordinals in Polish\r\n\r\nOrdinals declines like other adjectives in Polish,
    it means the ending of the word changes depending on \r\n1) a number (single,
    plurar)\r\n2) a gender (masculine/feminine/neuter gender)\r\n3) a declension (8
    forms: Rzeczownik, Mianownik, Dope\u0142niacz, Celownik, Biernik, Narz\u0119dnik,
    Miejscownik, Wo\u0142acz)\r\n\r\nIt gives such a big amount of possible combinations
    I'd write examples <strong>only for single/masculine/rzeczownik forms</strong>.\r\n\r\nHere
    in Poland we got three ways of writing orinals: full name; only ending after the
    numeral and dash; dot after the numeral. \r\nHowever the best solution is to write
    whole words, other possibilities apply if you are short of space for a whole words,
    they can be long. It means you'd rather don't meet a 1-szy or 1. in a book, but
    you may spot it in mags, letters, etc. Grammar rules allow all three forms. So
    here it goes:\r\n\r\nnum:[basic form/declined form [1],[2],[3]]\r\n1: jeden/(1st)
    pierwszy,1-szy,1.\r\n2: dwa/(2nd) drugi, 2-gi, 2.\r\n3: trzy/(...)trzeci, 3-ci,
    3.\r\n4: cztery/czwarty, 4-ty, 4.\r\n5: pi\u0119\u0107/pi\u0105ty, 5-ty, 5.\r\n6:
    sze\u015B\u0107/sz\xF3sty, 6-ty, 6.\r\n7: siedem/si\xF3dmy, 7-my, 7.\r\n8: osiem/\xF3smy,
    8-my, 8.\r\n9: dziewi\u0119\u0107/dziewi\u0105ty, 9-ty, 9.\r\n10: dzesi\u0119\u0107/dziesi\u0105ty,
    10-ty, 10.\r\n\r\n11: jedena\u015Bcie/jedenasty, 11-ty, 11.\r\n12: dwana\u015Bcie/dwunasty,
    12-ty, 12.\r\n13: trzyna\u015Bcie/trzynasty, 13-ty 13.\r\n14: czterna\u015Bcie/czternasty,
    ...\r\n15: pi\u0119tna\u015Bcie/pi\u0119tnasty\r\n16: szesna\u015Bcie/szesnasty\r\n17:
    siedemna\u015Bcie/siedemnasty\r\n18: osiemna\u015Bice/osiemnasty\r\n19: dziewi\u0119tna\u015Bcie/dziewi\u0119tnasty\r\n\r\n20:
    dwadzie\u015Bcia/dwudziesty,20-ty, 20.\r\n21-29: dwadzie\u015Bcia + [basic form
    1 to 9]/dwudziesty + [declinated form 1 to 9]\r\n\r\n30: trzydzie\u015Bci/trzydziesty\r\n31-39:
    trzydzie\u015Bci + [basic form 1 to 9]/trzydziesty + [declinated form 1 to 9]\r\n\r\n40:
    czterdzie\u015Bci/czterdziesty\r\n41-49: czterdzie\u015Bci + [basic form 1 to
    9]/czterdziesty + [declinated form 1 to 9]\r\n\r\n50: pi\u0119\u0107dziesi\u0105t/pi\u0119\u0107dziesi\u0105ty\r\n51-59:
    pi\u0119\u0107dziesi\u0105t + [basic form 1 to 9]/pi\u0119\u0107dziesi\u0105ty
    + [declinated form 1 to 9]\r\n\r\n60: sze\u015B\u0107dziesi\u0105t/sze\u015B\u0107dziesi\u0105ty\r\n61-69:
    sze\u015B\u0107dziesi\u0105t + [basic form 1 to 9]/sze\u015B\u0107dziesi\u0105ty
    + [declinated form 1 to 9]\r\n\r\n70: siedemdziesi\u0105t/siedemdziesi\u0105ty\r\n71-79:
    siedemdziesi\u0105t + [basic form 1 to 9]/siedemdziesi\u0105ty + [declinated form
    1 to 9]\r\n\r\n80: osiemdziesi\u0105t/osiemdziesi\u0105ty\r\n81-89: osiemdziesi\u0105t
    + [basic form 1 to 9]/osiemdziesi\u0105ty + [declinated form 1 to 9]\r\n\r\n90:
    dziewi\u0119\u0107dziesi\u0105t/dziewi\u0119\u0107dziesi\u0105ty\r\n91-99: dziewi\u0119\u0107dziesi\u0105t
    + [basic form 1 to 9]/dziewi\u0119\u0107dziesi\u0105ty + [declinated form 1 to
    9]\r\n\r\n100: sto/<strong>setny</strong>, 100-ny, 100.\r\n101: sto jeden/ <strong>sto</strong>
    pierwszy, 101-szy, 101.\r\n\r\nCounting from 100 you don't decline hundreds only
    singles and decimals UNLESS it is the EXACT number, so you decline eg. 100th word
    (setne s\u0142owo).\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nAntoni"
  created: '2008-02-29 10:18:03'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>kolmantenasadantenaviidenten\xE4kymmenenten\xE4seitsem\xE4nten\xE4</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    wonder: is it Koskenkorva, or is it rather the language that has brought us this
    <a href=\"http://www.sinisetsie.net/index.php?mid=1143312729\">Finnish guy</a>?"
  created: '2008-02-29 10:51:05'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>Ah yes, I once took a Finnish class. I had to stop because of tongue
    and cheek cramps, not to mention lack of oxygen. Kissa on sovala or something
    about a cat and a sofa is all I remember.</cite>\r\n\r\nHaha! Yes, <em>Kissa on
    sohvalla</em>.\r\n\r\nMy favourite words in Finnish have to be <em>jalkapaloilijoille</em>
    (\u2018to the football/soccer players\u2019) and the somewhat artificial but highly
    amusing <em>riiuuy\xF6aieuutiset</em> (\u2018news about intentions for a dating
    night\u2019), which begins with no less than eleven vowels. :-)"
  created: '2008-02-29 12:44:16'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "What a wealth of linguistic knowledge. Thanks everyone.\r\n\r\nThe only fully
    declining language I ever studied was Sanskrit, for a few years.\r\n\r\nI'm sure
    it's easier just to learn a language from birth and then later try to understand
    the rules that describe what you've learned naturally, than to try to learn a
    complex language by starting with all the declining and conjugating rules.\r\n\r\n--
    K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-29 13:26:08'
- author:
    name: kyrmse
    picture: 112387
  body: "Oh well. Nothing new in Portuguese, for it is very much similar to Spanish:\r\nPrimeir|o|a|os|as
    = 1\xBA, 1\xAA, 1\xBAs, 1\xAAs\r\n...\r\nand similarly until you get to\r\ncent\xE9sim|o|a|os|as
    = 100\xBA, 100\xAA, 100\xBAs, 100\xAAs\r\nbecause then it goes like this:\r\ncent\xE9sim|o|a|os|as
    primeir|o|a|os|as = 101\xBA, 101\xAA, 101\xBAs, 101\xAAs\r\n...\r\nuntil the mind
    boggles     ;-)\r\nor you reach aleph-null.\r\n\r\n\r\nRonald  Kyrmse\r\nronald.info.ms"
  created: '2008-02-29 18:11:19'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Hey Kent,\r\n\r\nI was wondering what you would do with this info.\r\n\r\nDo
    you hope to create a comprehensive list of which letters you need smaller superscript
    versions to go into the 'ordn' feature in an OpenType font?\r\n\r\nDo you hope
    to create a comprehensive list of *combinations* that would feed a contextual
    OpenType 'ordn' feature?\r\n\r\nOr am I just totally off base and you have some
    other purpose in mind?\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-02-29 22:33:11'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "So, today is still the most seldom, still most useful day of the year, so
    let's give an example of Hungarian.\r\n\r\nIn Hungarian you write ordinal numbers
    as in Danish, German, Polish (and several other European traditions): with a period
    following the Arabic numeral: 1., 2., 3., etc. so that's simple. The first ten
    are spelled out (cardinal ~ ordinal)\r\n\r\n1 egy ~ els\u0151 1.\r\n2 kett\u0151
    ~ m\xE1sodik 2.\r\n3 h\xE1rom ~ harmadik etc.\r\nn\xE9gy ~ negyedik\r\n\xF6t ~
    \xF6t\xF6dik\r\nhat ~ hatodik\r\nh\xE9t ~ hetedik\r\nnyolc ~ nyolcadik\r\nt\xEDz
    ~ tizedik\r\n\r\nBasically the rule is (except for the first three; they always
    seem to be special cf. one ~ first, two ~ second... uno ~ primero) to add -Vdik
    where V stands for a vowel harmonising with the vowels of the word (vowel harmony
    is a basic feature of Hungarian) [and some minor vowel length changes in the stem
    might take place].\r\n\r\nPurely technically, Hungarian ordinals can also take
    one of the 20+ cases and be in singular as well as plural (cf. Finnish), but that's
    really not what you are looking for* ;-). In most such cases, you'd write it out.
    (Again, technically, one would write it with number, dot, dash, ending: 1.-ben
    (first[inessive case])). When writing dates (which are spoken with the ordinal
    in possessive form (Hungarian marks linguistically what is possessed as opposed
    to what is possessing in most IE languages (genetive case)) they have a slightly
    different writing rule, as in not writing/dropping the dot, just writing \"m\xE1jus
    1-\xE9n\" e.g. (May 1-[possessive marker][superessive case] meaning \"on the 1st
    of May\")\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n_____\r\n* You really don't want to go into that, as
    there are more than just the ca. 50 combinations of cases and singular/plurar,
    as Hungarian marks several other things, as. e.g. possession and the person and
    number of possessor on the item as well, and additionally, whether the possession
    is in singular or plurar... so that adds up. -- However as opposed to fully inflecting
    languages, it's comparably easy, you can imagine it as a building kit, just adding
    modules (so you don't have to remember 6x2x25x2x... endings, just 6+2+25+2+...
    endings which you can combine then in 6x2x25x... ways... it's soo simple!\r\n\r\nThis
    cannot comete with the \"somewhat constructed\" Finnish riiuuy\xF6aieuutiset (\u2018news
    about intentions for a dating night\u2019), but one the (acutally atypical) Hungarian
    vowel-word is: \"fiai\xE9i\" which means \"his sons' somethings (that were referred
    to previously)\". And merely formally, you could go on saying fiai\xE9i\xE9i\xE9i\xE9i\xE9i\xE9i...
    forever, if those somethings together again possess several somethings possessing
    together several somethings... but THAT's constructed (and noone could track it,
    right?), while the first could happen in a real conversation..."
  created: '2008-02-29 22:39:03'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>I believe the French are fond of superscripting in certain circumstances.
    True? What about Dutch ordinal abbreviations?</em>\r\n\r\nIn Dutch there is no
    official rule that says it has to be superscripted or not. As far as I know. So
    it can be both, it's a typographical choice.\r\n\r\n> <em>you haven\u2019t included
    my favourite Dutch word (apart from \u2018sinaasappelsap\u2019, that is): \u2018achtentachtigste\u2019
    \ [the 88th]. ;\xB0) Try pronouncing that, as a Non-Dutchman!</em>\r\n\r\nAh yeah,
    that is indeed a nice one. I followed Kent's English list, so 88th wasn't in it,
    unfortunately. But I can imagine that it is practically unpronouncable for non-dutch
    speakers. :D"
  created: '2008-03-01 02:54:36'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Thomas --\r\n\r\nWell, I happen to be working on Whitman superscript/ordinal
    letters right now, so that piqued my curiosity. But in addition to being a typophile,
    I also have a fascination with linguistics, so it's a little bit of both fueling
    my interest.\r\n\r\nI don't really have a grand scheme in mind, certainly nothing
    as ambitious as a contextual {ordn} feature. I doubt that would be of any practical
    benefit.\r\n\r\nBut I thought the discussion might be of general interest to the
    type design community. And I am interested to see if there is any use out there
    that is unfamiliar and eye-opening.\r\n\r\nI'm aware that, strictly speaking,
    the {ordn} feature really refers only to superscripted abbreviations -- which
    is a purely typographic convention, and really only a limited one, with seemingly
    no application to many languages.\r\n\r\nSo, really there are three semantic layers.
    There's the ordinal form itself (which is an essential semantic element); then
    there's the convention for abbreviation; and then there's potentially a typographic
    tradition of superscripting the abbreviation. I'm always interested in understanding
    the linguistic elements behind the typographic traditions and conventions.\r\n\r\nBut,
    practically speaking, I was pretty much planning to put a complete superscripted
    l.c. alphabet* in the {ordn} alignment -- different from the {sups} alignment.
    Just of good measure. I suppose to some extent, I am curious about the minimum
    letters required to handle the most common uses of superscripted ordinal abbreviations.
    I figure I should try to be aware of which of these would actually qualify as
    true \"ordinals.\"\r\n\r\n*(unaccented -- unless I can discover a convincing argument
    for an \xE9 or \xE8 in French.)\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-01 14:27:15'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Ois\xEDn, sorry, but I'm nitpicking here... It's <cite> jalkapalloilijoille</cite>.
    I'm very impressed with your grammatical knowledge of Finnish. As a native speaker
    I couldn't have presented it better. I suppose I tend not to think of the structure
    so much, just get on with speaking/writing.\r\n\r\nFlorian, have you heard M.A.
    Numminen (the man in a bunny costume) performing in German?\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M._A._Numminen\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-01 14:54:45'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>Ois\xEDn, sorry, but I\u2019m nitpicking here... It\u2019s jalkapalloilijoille.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhoops,
    that was a typo, hadn\u2019t noticed that. <em>Pallo</em> has two l\u2019s, of
    course. Unless one could make a case for <em>jalkapaloilijoille</em> meaning something
    like \u2018to the people who cause foot fires\u2019... perhaps not so likely.
    :-P\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n<cite>I\u2019m very impressed with your grammatical knowledge
    of Finnish. As a native speaker I couldn\u2019t have presented it better. I suppose
    I tend not to think of the structure so much, just get on with speaking/writing.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd
    as someone who\u2019s taken one year of Finnish (and has, unfortunately, been
    unable to take the second year this year), I do the exact opposite: I still have
    to carefully think my way through declensions and conjugations before being able
    to say very much. Such a very <em>different</em> language to wrap one\u2019s brain
    around."
  created: '2008-03-01 15:08:10'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>Florian, have you heard M.A. Numminen (the man in a bunny costume)
    performing in German?</cite>\r\n\r\nOh yes! I have a couple of his albums; I think
    his music is one of the best things Finland has to offer, next to <a href=\"http://www.humppa.com/\">El\xE4kel\xE4iset</a>.
    ;\xB0)\r\n<a href=\"http://youtube.com/watch?v=57PWqFowq-4\">M. A. Numminen sings
    Wittgenstein (on Youtube)</a> "
  created: '2008-03-01 15:35:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"have you heard M.A. Numminen \"\r\n\r\nMili, my daughter played some of
    his music for me on a road trip. My daughter has a way of finding things beyond
    the typoical on American radio.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-01 16:16:13'
- author:
    name: daniele capo
    picture: 113718
  body: "In Italian\r\n\r\n1 - uno - primo/prima - 1\xBA/1\xAA (maculine/feminine)\r\n2
    - due - secondo/seconda - \u2014\u2014\u2014\r\n3 - tre - terzo/terza\r\n4 - quattro
    - quarto /quarta\r\n5 - cinque - quinto/quinta\r\n6- sei - sesto/sesta\r\n7 -
    sette - settimo/settima\r\n8 - otto - ottavo/ottava\r\n9 - nove - nono/nona\r\n10
    - dieci - decimo/decima\r\n\r\nThen from 11\r\n11 - undici (you can form the number
    from the numbers uno and dici for dieci-ten) unidicesimo/undicesima (formed from
    undici and esimo)\r\n12 - dodici - dodicesimo/dodicesima\r\n13 - tredici - tredicesimo/tredicesima\r\n14
    - quattordici - quattordicesimo/quattordicesima\r\n15 - quindici - quindicesimo/quindicesima\r\n16
    - sedici - sedicesimo/sedicesimi\r\n17 - diciassette - diciassettesimo/diciasettesima
    \r\n18 - diciotto -diciottesimo/diciottesima\r\n19 - diciannove - diciannovesimo/diciannovesima\r\n\r\nNow,
    from 20\r\n20 - venti - ventesimo/ventesima\r\n21 - ventuno -ventunesimo/ventunesima
    (you form numbers vent(i)-uno; venti-due; venti-tre and so on, the ordinals follow
    ventiduesimo, ventitreesimo,..., ventinovesimo)\r\n\r\n30 - trenta - trentesimo
    (and, trentuno, trentadue, etc., the ordinals trentunesimo, trentaduesimo)\r\n40
    - quaranta\r\n50 - cinquanta (cinque+anta)\r\n60- sessanta \r\n70 - settanta (sette+anta)\r\n80
    - ottanta (otto+anta)\r\n90 - novanta (nove+anta)\r\n\r\n100 - cento - cento -
    centesimo/centesima\r\ncentoun, centodue, ecc.\r\n1000 - milleuno, ecc.\r\n\r\n10000
    - diecimila (dieci+mila, where mila is 1000), ecc., ordinal: diecimilesimo (who
    needs this word?)\r\n100000 - centomila (cento+mila) ecc. ordinal: centomilesimo\r\n1000000
    - un milione, ordinal: milionesimo\r\n\r\nof course, for ordinals number you have
    plurals form for masculine and feminine (sing. primo/prima - plur. primi/prime).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-02 11:06:34'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Kent wrote:\r\n\r\n<cite> I was pretty much planning to put a complete superscripted
    l.c. alphabet* in the {ordn} alignment \u2014 different from the {sups} alignment.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's
    pretty much what we're doing at Adobe in new fonts, adding the egrave.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-03-02 20:02:50'
- author:
    name: Thomas Levine
    picture: 112734
  body: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ordinal_indicator
  created: '2008-03-02 20:54:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>adding the egrave.</em>\r\n\r\n...and alternate g's and a's :-)"
  created: '2008-03-02 21:56:08'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: Shinn, elaborate on that please.
  created: '2008-03-05 18:27:52'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: I guess Nick is referring to having both single- and double-storey alternatives
    for those letters, as Thomas has included them in his [[Hypatia Sans]] (<a href="http://www.adobe.com/type/browser/landing/hypatia/pdfs/Hypatia_Sans_stylistic_sets.pdf">see
    this PDF</a>).
  created: '2008-03-05 21:06:46'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Yes, I see that he meant single-storey versions, but why would that be priority
    in ordinals? Or is this just type-designer vanity...\r\n(I think, one of the basic
    design choices and \"characteristics\" of type is which \"a\" and \"g\" style
    they go for)."
  created: '2008-03-06 15:47:39'
- author:
    name: Engrev
  body: "Very interesting reading all of you. Could I ask your thoughts on the use
    of capital letters for ordinals above 20 written in full in English?\r\ne.g. Twenty-first
    or Twenty-First etc?\r\nMany thanks!\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-28 11:37:19'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Twenty-first is how I've always seen it on diplomas and other such formal
    documents.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos
    cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-03-28 13:24:20'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "I\u2019d have to agree, unless it\u2019s for the title of a song, book, movie,
    etc.; then I\u2019d say \u2018Twenty-First\u2019. Not sure if that\u2019s just
    me or an actual rule, though."
  created: '2008-03-28 13:46:42'
- author:
    name: Engrev
  body: Ok so that about confirms my feeling that there's no actual hard and fast
    rule - Thanks to both of you.
  created: '2008-03-31 12:07:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Or is this just type-designer vanity...</em>\r\n\r\nNo, I meant that
    if a typeface has alternate versions of \"a\" and/or \"g\" in its lower case,
    it should also have alternates in its superscripts."
  created: '2010-10-06 13:00:21'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "Fran\xE7ais\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/deuxieme_4293.gif]"
  created: '2010-10-06 14:15:48'
date: '2008-02-27 16:58:58'
node_type: forum
title: Ordinal Numbers in Various Languages

---
