---
author:
  name: maltelunden
  picture: 113747
body: "I'm working on my first book for children (with the text integrated in the
  full-page illustrations - usually, the illustration has left room for the text with
  a uniform colour or texture of some sort).\r\n\r\nI might have more of these kind
  of jobs, so I'm on the lookout for fonts suitable for children's books (both display
  and text-fonts). I searched the forum, but it seems that nobody has discussed this
  before, so I'm looking forward to see what people think about it.\r\n\r\nA personal
  preference: I wouldn't like to stereotypical fonts that could risk \"talking down\"
  to the children. In other words, being <em>too</em> childish. Also, I'm aware that
  the suitability of any font depends on the specific story, but my goal here is just
  to brainstorm away and create a whole bunch of inspiration!\r\n\r\nWould <a href=\"http://www.underware.nl/site2/index.php3?id1=bello&id2=smallcaps\">Bello</a>
  in small caps work for display text? My intuition tells me it would suit for young
  boys.\r\n\r\nThank you!\r\nMalte"
comments:
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "I've been in love with House Industries \"Burbank\" since I got their mailer...\r\nhttp://www.houseind.com/index.php?page=showfont&id=565&subpage=viewfontspecimens\r\n\r\n\r\nVeer
    (veer.com) also comes to mind. They have too many typefaces to name that have
    that hand-drawn, yet refined sensibility"
  created: '2008-02-28 21:43:56'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Have a look at [[http://www.stormtype.com/typefaces-fonts-shop/families-68-juvenis|Juvenis]].\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-28 21:51:08'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I also think quirky serif fonts like Oneleigh, Kennerley,Belucian, Della Robbia
    and Worcester can work nicely, depending on the art. They suggest vintage kids
    books. The main thing is that they be easy for kids to read and work at larger
    sizes.
  created: '2008-02-28 22:02:26'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: The classic suggestion for children's books is [[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/new-century-schoolbook/|New
    Century Schoolbook]], but don't be afraid to try something fresher. Hey, it was
    good enough for Dr. Seuss.
  created: '2008-02-28 22:43:53'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "Cuttlefish beat me to the punch. Century Schoolbook is the answer. My sentiments
    exactly. Only I wouldn't suggest trying something fresher. I'd just use it without
    question. But I'm like that. If you were to try something fresher, I'd suggest
    Georgia. I learned that on Typophile! It's fun to get smarter!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-28 22:58:07'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Surely Gotham & Myriad for contemporary subjects "Johnny gets an iPod" or
    "Our New President", Avenir and Frutiger for the retro look, and something scrawly
    for the Spiderwick set.   '
  created: '2008-02-28 23:16:26'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "A kid's book is an opportunity to use those typefaces that are too showy
    or interesting for long or serious texts. \r\n\r\nChaparral, Goudy Californian
    Text (FontBureau), Garamond 3, Hightower, Truesdell, Eldorado, Alcuin, are all
    sitting in your font library waiting for a project like this. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-29 02:39:59'
- author:
    name: maltelunden
    picture: 113747
  body: "Burbank looks really great to me! It reminds me of [[http://www.justanotherfoundry.com/Zalamander/index.htm|Zalamander]],
    but just a bit more clean, soft and not so pointy. Perfect!\r\n\r\nWhat do you
    guys think of Zalamander for children's books by the way? \r\n\r\nPersonally I
    would want to use quirky serifs, like Pattyfab suggested. I think I found all
    the ones you listed, but I find it difficult to visualize them in print, from
    just looking at the screen. I like [[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/bitstream/della-robbia|Della
    Robbia]] though (maybe because the serifs are so neutral), [[http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Belucian|Belucia]]
    seems a bit too sophisticated for most purposes and I don't know what to think
    about [[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/fontfont/ff-oneleigh/regular/|OneLeigh]]..\r\n\r\nChaparral
    was a really good idea! That could end up as a standard children's font for me.
    Thanks. I couldn't find Goudy California(n), but Garamond 3 and [[http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Hightower|Hightower]]
    seem a bit too traditional. [[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/fontbureau/eldorado|Eldorado]]
    looked interesting (especially the lower-case 'a'), but I think I need to see
    more of it (in print preferably). \r\n\r\n\u2013 <em>M</em>"
  created: '2008-02-29 11:58:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I know you're brainstorming, but why you would look for a generic \"children's\"
    face, without considering the content, illustration or layout of the book?\r\nThat's
    rather patronizing.\r\nBy choosing Burbank, you are discriminating against serious
    and sophisticated children, and those who may in future become graphic designers!\r\n\r\nBut
    if you must, Carl's approach makes a lot of sense.\r\n\r\nOr, if you're stuck
    with the one-type-fits-all approach, give them Helvetica, and they will feel really
    grown-up :-)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-29 19:09:06'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: I wouldn't bring any attention to the type. Allow the Illustrations to carry
    the message. Just make the type easy to read.
  created: '2008-02-29 20:01:51'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: Nick, I agree that the typeface should compliment the illustration style and
    the story itself. I suggested Burbank on the premise that it had the same general
    class or style as Bello, but it is also better suited for body copy, and has many
    weights to choose from. I know Chris Van Allsburg would have never used it, but
    maybe Roald Dahl would have enjoyed it...
  created: '2008-02-29 20:24:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the typeface should compliment the illustration style</em>\r\n\r\nI'm
    working on it. It will be called \"DudeThatsWicked\"."
  created: '2008-02-29 23:24:29'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: My son is in first grade, and I find that the measure and leading are more
    critical than the choice of typeface. By the way, at the library we never pick
    up books with "clever" type that goes up and down, or loops around the page.
  created: '2008-03-01 08:30:05'
- author:
    name: maltelunden
    picture: 113747
  body: "Hello Nick,\r\n\r\nThanks for the input. I guess your argument is similar
    to those in the thread on \"gay types\": there's no point in finding a generic
    type, without considering the content. I have to say though, I'm certainly not
    looking for a catch-all type, but rather stirring up some inspiration \u2013 and
    now, apparently, debate :)\r\n\r\nPut simply, first I want to familiarize myself
    with a whole lot of different types suitable for children's book (a generalization:
    assuming that children's books have <em>something</em> in common, and are more
    similar than, say scientific journals), which will make it much more fun to pick
    a specific one for a specific book (by considering its specific subject).\r\n\r\nIt
    doesn't have to be either-or. You can work both generalizing and specific, by
    making a preselection.\r\n\r\nBut what do I know, I'm a child in this business
    anyway\r\n\r\n\u2013 <em>M</em>"
  created: '2008-03-01 13:05:08'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "How\u2019s your spiral?"
  created: '2008-03-01 15:24:32'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: "On another thread, Jupiterboy drew my attention to a new Storm Foundry face
    called Tusar, which would be perfect for you: big fat friendly letter proportions,
    open clear counters, and stylish numbers--a real charmer. Take a peek. Not expensive
    either, $77 for the four-font package, all properly keystroke-linked, something
    I'm always grateful for from small foundries. Download from myfonts.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Tusar_6642.png]"
  created: '2008-03-01 16:03:26'
- author:
    name: Arild
    picture: 113062
  body: How about <a href="http://www.underware.nl/site2/index.php3?id1=sauna&id2=overview">Sauna</a>
    from Underware?
  created: '2008-03-01 18:37:12'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Talking of Underware: Dolly is very friendly.'
  created: '2008-03-01 19:03:16'
- author:
    name: maltelunden
    picture: 113747
  body: "Hello jupiterboy,\r\n\r\nThanks for asking :) \r\nIt's somewhat on standby,
    although the board of direction accepted the idea/sketch, and were very happy
    about the overall concept (even eager to conjure up new uses of it).\r\n\r\n\u2013
    <em>Malte</em>"
  created: '2008-03-01 21:30:54'
- author:
    name: maltelunden
    picture: 113747
  body: "MondoB, that looks interesting, thanks for the suggestion. I will check it
    out.\r\n\r\nApparently, Underware fonts seem to do a lot of what I personally
    look for. \r\n\u2013 A colleague of mine actually used Sauna for the new danish
    edition of the Bible for children. \r\n\u2013 I <em>love</em> the look of Dolly,
    and have waited for an occasion to use it, so maybe I should put that on my childrens-list.
    Actually, I have considered Auto (another Underware font) for this particular
    job, because it seems to complement Chaparral very well (I discovered this in
    another thread here on the forum \u2013 I think it was a comment by crossgrove
    there too, so I might as well say thank you <em>twice</em>)\r\n\r\nAfter thinking
    about the subject of finding \"children's fonts\", I may have to accept that I
    am rather strongly selecting fonts from a personal aestaethic viewpoint. I'm definately
    not going for the neutral and don't-see-me-fonts, because I want the look of the
    text to compliment and \"play\" with the illustrations (though not necessarily
    in the \"clever\" way EK mentions). But I may have a slight bias towards certain
    kinds of fonts. I don't know if this is bad or good.\r\n\r\n\u2013 <em>Malte</em>"
  created: '2008-03-01 21:51:46'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: "Another option with some of the same appeal as Underware's marvelous faces
    is ESTA from Portugal's DSType...to me, it has a unique Portuguese combo of funkiness
    and old-world courtliness. Also not expensive (certainly cheaper than Underware):
    $19 per font from myfonts.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Esta_6731.png]"
  created: '2008-03-01 22:44:22'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "\"By choosing Burbank, you are discriminating against serious and sophisticated
    children\"\r\nI'll remember that next time I see the Duck Confit Happy Meal at
    McDonalds...\r\n\r\nI don't think typographers/graphic designers should be afraid
    to play with typefaces, as long as the point size, leading (you're right EK),
    and legibility (none of those random cursive characters or such) are not affected.
    Take for instance, comic books. There you will have an excellent balance of type
    to image (and also the only time center-alligned paragraphs are acceptable) where
    there is in no way any indication of classic typography. Depending on the age
    group, I wouldn't hesitate to use a \"handwritten\" sans in a children's book,
    as long as it's still legible, and makes sense in it's usage. Maybe if they're
    a little older we can go to JK Rowling's 12pt Adobe Garamond (at least for us
    in the US)."
  created: '2008-03-03 05:40:53'
- author:
    name: "Kellie Str\xF8m"
    picture: 111448
  body: "A number of children's picture books use type which is very unsympathetic
    to the art. Putting brittle type next to or over painted art looks ugly to me.
    For <A HREF=\"http://www.sadiethepilot.com\">my own first book</A> I used a version
    of Cooper Oldstyle. The blobby serifs went very well with the acrylic painting,
    I thought. Where the designer and editor suggested setting some of the type along
    curves, I created a new upright cursive non-joining font, which being my first
    I make no great claims for, but it was better than having serifs choo-chooing
    up and down curves, which is something that looks weird to me, unless it's handlettered.\r\n\r\nI
    handlettered the cover letters, which led to some problems on foreign co-editions.
    Where I got the chance I created hand-lettering for co-editions also, but most
    of them were typeset, not always in the most pleasing way.\r\n\r\nMy current project
    is a Dutch language only picture book, which I intend to handletter.\r\n\r\nI'm
    also working on another English language book where I plan to follow Maurice Sendak
    and use Cheltenham, mixing and matching the versions from a couple of suppliers
    so that I can get as traditional a 'g' as possible, and also approximate smallcaps
    by using a bold at a smaller size. I may have to draw that old 'r' myself, though.
    I can't see it for sale anywhere, nor can I see an 'ffi' for 'traffic'.\r\n\r\nI'm
    very fond of Baskerville with art, as seen in the Danish children's comic <A HREF=\"http://airforceamazons.blogspot.com/2008/02/antlerism.html\">Rasmus
    Klump</A>.\r\n\r\nCounter to all this, <A HREF=\"http://www.amazon.co.uk/s/ref=nb_ss_w_h_?url=search-alias%3Daps&field-keywords=lauren+child&Go.x=0&Go.y=0&Go=Go\">Lauren
    Child</A> uses type in a way that is extremely ugly, but integrates with the art
    perfectly, and is in its own philistine way absolutely brilliant."
  created: '2008-03-03 12:04:50'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: I've always thought that children's books should have as traditional a typeface
    as possible; they're just learning to read, so why give them a typeface that has
    interesting letterforms? I personally think something like Georgia would be a
    great choice, given the high x-height and overall legibility.
  created: '2008-03-03 12:39:35'
- author:
    name: Ana Curralo
    picture: 113658
  body: "For children\xB4s book, I suggest Sassoon Infant Regular but give a look
    on www.clubtype.co.uk or www.schulschriften.de\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-03 22:01:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I\u2019ve always thought that children\u2019s books should have as traditional
    a typeface as possible; they\u2019re just learning to read, so why give them a
    typeface that has interesting letterforms? </em>\r\n\r\nI agree with your policy,
    but not the rationale.\r\nIMO, traditional serif faces have the most interesting
    letterforms, ideal for engaging young minds.\r\nKellie mentions Cheltenham, which
    has a few \"extra\" serifs and unusual top-heavy proportions.\r\n\r\nI didn't
    design Fontesque for children, but that's a genre it's often used for.\r\nDesigners,
    perhaps, use its bounce and irregularity to signal the genre, being similar to
    the uneven quality of children's handwriting. Children also seem to like it; I
    think because it breaks the grid. They're always being told to conform, which
    is hard work, so they respond to something that doesn't. This isn't the same issue
    as \"serious/fun\", although there is some overlap. It is also possible for children
    to be serious and non-conformist at least some of the time-- after all, that's
    learning to think for oneself.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-03 22:07:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Since this is a picture book, I think that suiting the mood of the story
    and the style of the artwork should be the main considerations. The 'voice' of
    the type would be the main thing, since being large any decent typeface will be
    legible. \r\n\r\nWhat is the style of the artwork? What is the theme of the story?"
  created: '2008-03-03 22:28:47'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: "<em>I agree with your policy, but not the rationale.\r\nIMO, traditional
    serif faces have the most interesting letterforms, ideal for engaging young minds.</em>\r\n\r\nSorry,
    interesting was a bad word choice. \"Unique\" or \"different\" was more what I
    meant."
  created: '2008-03-03 23:47:36'
- author:
    name: maltelunden
    picture: 113747
  body: "Well thought out, Nick. I think that's a very inspiring explanation for which
    fonts children most often like (though, you have to admit, the mere explanation
    of such a thing is a generalization. I don't think that's a bad thing though)\r\n\r\nOn
    a general note, I have to add that <em>not all children's book are read by children</em>.
    A lot of them are read by their parents. This affects the whole discussion of
    traditional type vs. expressive type. In the case of a book where most children
    don't read themselves, I wouldn't hesitate in using an expressive type. With my
    particular book as an example: the text is disproportionally difficult in relation
    to the age-relevance of the theme and the style of the artwork. If the child could
    read it, he/she would probably be turned of by the theme and the artwork, and
    go read a more serious book.\r\n\r\nWilliam: The illustration style of the book
    is rather wild, \"pointy\" and non-smooth. But also friendly and cuddly (especially
    the huge black dog, which the protagonist finds in his daddy's car instead of
    his dad). I chose Chaparral, because I seemed to get some of the same vibes from
    this font.\r\n\r\n\u2013 <em>Malte</em>"
  created: '2008-03-04 10:40:35'
- author:
    name: johnkraft
  body: "I'm working on a new children's book, my first, and have been doing research
    on appropriate fonts.  So far Georgia is in the lead but it does seem a bit boring
    or flat compared to the illustrations.  Perhaps that's OK?  Wondered what the
    group here thought of the font \"Marker Felt\".  On first glance it seems readable
    & whimsical - but I may be losing objectivity.\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nJohn\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-06 04:04:27'
- author:
    name: aquashore
  body: "I'm either using Burbank or Century Schoolbook for mine... so far Burbank
    is winning as it suits my art.\r\n\r\n@johnkraft Marker Felt? Hmmmm I'd be hesitant
    on that one... However, I haven't read your story or seen the art to make a more
    informed comment :)\r\n\r\nDon't go too fancy for the sake of it.... I used to
    be a (video) Editor, and people starting out or learning editing used to see the
    great list of fancy transitions (like http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-zdryiNdukM
    ) and go nuts using them all... when all you really need 99% of the time is a
    simple fade/cross fade or dissolve. \r\n\r\nSo, keep it simple - you want your
    art to draw the attention, not the font."
  created: '2011-01-23 23:47:47'
- author:
    name: DesignHardcore
    picture: 121769
  body: "Burbank is Good,But Worcester is also a nice font to use.\r\n\r\nwww.creativedesignhardcore.com"
  created: '2011-01-28 05:49:01'
- author:
    name: ALEXANDRAARROWSMITH
  body: "Hey Malte\r\nHow are you getting on? Are you published yet? \r\nI read all
    of the baove and am currently looking for font options myself for my children's
    books.\r\nWhat did you settle on in the end?\r\nAA"
  created: '2012-03-15 21:12:20'
- author:
    name: ncaleffi
    picture: 113555
  body: Go with ITC Century - a timeless classic, and a perfect choice, in my opinion,
    for children's books.
  created: '2012-03-16 08:42:21'
- author:
    name: fontdesigner2
  body: Try pizzadude fonts. They're really cool and they're free. Just make sure
    to create outlines before you print them.
  created: '2012-04-09 06:18:10'
- author:
    name: audesigner
  body: "I worked as a graphic designer for a children's museum for over 3 year and
    what I have found is that kids need consistency and legibility above all else.
    Especially if your audience is younger kids, just learning to read. Don't pick
    fancy or decorative fonts. At the museum, we were very specific to using only
    fonts with infant characters (round a's and g's) because those are what children
    recgonize best. Some are:\r\n\r\nFutura\r\nCentury Gothic\r\nAndika Basic (I think
    this was designed especially for children): http://www.dafont.com/andika-basic.font\r\nGill
    Sans Infant\r\n\r\nThere are probably others. I also had a MFA Graduate classmate
    who did a thesis on typography in children's books. Again, consistency and legibility
    are the most important things."
  created: '2012-04-12 20:43:25'
date: '2008-02-28 21:30:25'
title: Fonts for children's books

---
