---
author:
  name: BlueStreak
  picture: 111058
body: You probably have to be in your 40s to answer this, but maybe not. Maybe younger
  and astute students of recent type history will have opinions. Will Gotham ten years
  from now seem like Eurostyle did in the '80s? Is it so popular and such a summation
  of the current times that in ten years it's going to seem dated and trite? Eurostyle
  was everywhere in the '70s and then in the '80s it quickly fell out of favor. Is
  the same fate waiting for Gotham? I'm off to a meeting where Gotham may be the best
  type choice. But I'm hesitant to consider it because this project will need to have
  legs for many years to come, and I'm thinking that Gotham is over the line of being
  overused the way Eurostyle was in the 1970s.
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I doubt Gotham will go the way of Eurostile because Gotham is much less noticeable
    than Eurostile. Eurostile is a wonky design that really stands out and screams
    for attention. Gotham was designed after years of research into vernacular letterforms
    that people are used to seeing; it\u2019s popularity will eventually make it a
    vernacular typeface and/or ensure that plenty of derivative works pop up. I see
    the future of Gotham as being similar to FF Meta; designers will be a lot more
    reserved about using it, identity systems around it will get redone for the same
    reasons they always do, and it will remain out there but be a lot less everywhere."
  created: '2008-02-29 16:08:33'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Based on the models used for Gotham it''s already stood the test of time.
    The only way I can see if falling from grace is if Microsoft licenses it and ships
    it with Windows or Office. '
  created: '2008-02-29 16:36:02'
- author:
    name: wesmo
  body: "I hear your concerns. In my opinion, its already saturated. I think the difference
    with Eurostile (or Microgramma as I call it) is that it was more adaptable than
    Gotham. For example, Microgramma could be used on letterhead, but it could also
    be used for dishwashers, car batteries, and tennis shoes with distinction and
    prose. Gotham cant do that. On the plus side, Gotham is more \"safe\", and its
    harder to pick it apart, so a lot of designers want a more bullet-proof campaign,
    but in a sense, that also makes it less memorable, so its a trade off of sorts.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-29 16:44:38'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: I love you, Si.
  created: '2008-02-29 17:39:29'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Will Gotham ten years from now seem like Eurostyle did in the \u201980s?\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://predictions.astrology.com/cb/\">The Crystal Ball's reply:</a>\r\n\r\n<em>Probably
    not going to happen</em>\r\n\r\n\r\nSo, don't worry too much. Use it. "
  created: '2008-02-29 17:53:35'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I think Gotham will stand the test of time, it's an instant classic, but it
    is so overused right now that you might want to consider an alternative just to
    distinguish your design from the pack.
  created: '2008-02-29 18:57:27'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Stephen,\r\n\r\nCare to enumerate the alternatives to Gotham? Might be very
    handy...."
  created: '2008-02-29 19:00:37'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Gotham is the new Helvetica. Like it or not, it builds on the heritage of
    the past and distills the essence of American vernacular lettering into a single
    typeface, which gives it broad and lasting appeal (particularly in America). Maybe
    my likeness falls short in respect to Gotham's universal appeals. I'd be curious
    to find out if it is as much used in countries other than the states.
  created: '2008-02-29 19:01:42'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>I\u2019d be curious to find out if it is as much used in countries
    other than the states.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, it\u2019s not like Gotham was some
    peculiar face that would catch one\u2019s eye \u2026 but I must admit I haven\u2019t
    noticed it <em>at all</em>, neither in publications nor public space, over here
    in Germany. Maybe I\u2019m just ignorant \u2026 on the other hand, I <em>do</em>
    notice Univers, Helvetica, DIN, Frutiger, AG or Meta all the time."
  created: '2008-02-29 19:25:03'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Gotham is the new Helvetica\r\n\r\nMore simple: Gotham is Gotham.\r\nAnd
    what is 'overused' \u2014 100? 200? 2,000? . We say 'popular/successful song/book/band/movie....'.
    \u2014 what's wrong with popular or successful  font? "
  created: '2008-02-29 19:34:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>And what is \u2019overused\u2019</cite>\r\n\r\nOverused is when designers
    use it because it\u2019s cool, not because it\u2019s appropriate. I can think
    of a few places in DC that picked Gotham because it\u2019s hot, and not because
    they were looking for a font that wouldn\u2019t look out of place ten feet tall
    and stuck on the front of a Beaux-Arts building. The same goes for the health
    club management magazine I saw using Neutraface on the cover."
  created: '2008-02-29 19:41:48'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "When the underground goes pop, it sells out then loses its street cred. You
    gotta keep it real and only be popular among those who liked you before you got
    popular. Who wants to belong to a club that would have them as a member?\r\n\r\nComplete
    nonsense, but so it goes."
  created: '2008-02-29 19:44:16'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Overused is when designers use it because it\u2019s cool\r\n\r\n\r\nSo,
    the right term/word is misused. And why to \"blame\" the font; \"blame\" the designers,
    no?"
  created: '2008-02-29 19:50:02'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "I agree with all that Gotham is a classic and will not go out of fashion
    like more stylized or faddish typefaces. It's around for the long haul, and I'm
    fine with that.\r\n\r\nFor some jobs, it makes sense to go for something different.
    The most obvious alternative to Gotham is Proxima, which actually preceded it.
    <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/mark_simonson/proxima_nova_complete_ot/\">Proxima
    Nova</a> gives you more weights and widths, and alternative glyphs like a single-story
    'a' \u2014 a small detail that can convey a surprisingly different feeling overall. "
  created: '2008-02-29 19:50:11'
- author:
    name: andyclymer
    picture: 110580
  body: Actually, as an aside, Gotham's conversion to OpenType brought it an alternate
    single-story "a" which can be accessed from Stylistic Set 3 and the Stylistic
    Alternates feature.
  created: '2008-02-29 20:06:27'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "Thanks for all of the input. I was thinking that someone might ask me what
    kind of product, company, or service I was thinking of using Gotham for. Then
    I wondered if it would matter. Would it?\r\n\r\nOverused is when a type is used
    for everything, everywhere. (Neutraface was slow to get momentum in this category,
    but is well on its way now.) Considering the use of Gotham more, it seems to have
    potential, to my sensitivities at least, to be used for almost anything, anywhere.
    Also from my perspective it <em>is</em> being used for everything and used everywhere.
    So I find myself feeling about that face the same way I feel about Helvetica.
    It's the best possible choice and the worst possible choice all at the same time."
  created: '2008-02-29 20:17:27'
- author:
    name: mila
    picture: 114404
  body: "Helvetica? Helvetica was designed to be non-vernacular, it's almost anti-vernacular,
    it's opposite to Gotham.  \r\nMaybe Gotham replaces Interstate in the graphic
    design scene - with the advantage of being more carefully built. In fact Gotham
    seems so carefully built that time will probably be fair to this charming face
    (the italics are too slanted for my taste, but that's part of its charm).\r\nEurostile
    reminds me of Stainless: it's fashionable and interesting, but it speaks too loud
    and we soon get tired of it. That's not the case of Gotham, which is a more subtle
    font."
  created: '2008-02-29 20:18:41'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>And what is \u2019overused\u2019 \u2014 100? 200? 2,000? . We say \u2019popular/successful
    song/book/band/movie....\u2019. \u2014 what\u2019s wrong with popular or successful
    font?</cite>\r\n\r\nOverused means it is everywhere you look. It is in magazine
    designs, subway ads, web sites, logos (hello Typophile) you name it. It is a versatile,
    attractive font\u2014understated yet with character. Nothing is wrong with that,
    of course (especially if you're H&FJ!) but if you use it right now you do run
    the risk of seeming to follow rather than lead the pack.\r\n\r\nDavid, haven't
    you ever grown tired of a song you like because it's being used in car ads on
    TV?"
  created: '2008-02-29 20:22:38'
- author:
    name: adnix
    picture: 109591
  body: "I think Gotham has a more neutral look, similar to Helvetica, and will help
    it look less dated in 10 years, whereas Eurostile comes in and out of fashion
    because it is more stylized.\r\n\r\nIt will get used less, but probably because
    something will come along to replace it as the favorite font, not because there
    is anything wrong with Gotham.\r\n\r\nDavid"
  created: '2008-02-29 22:22:12'
- author:
    name: wesmo
  body: I think the original poster of the thread is referring to its use in multiple
    applications. You all speak mostly of Gotham's advertsing & marketing uses. Does
    Gotham cover a lot of ground there? Saturatedly yes. Does it cover as many physical
    applications as Microgramma could? No. And the same would apply today as well.
  created: '2008-02-29 22:41:33'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: "I disagree with your premise: when I started designing in the seventies,
    all us young designers in NYC thought Eurostile was crap and in fact we seldom
    saw it used, well or badly.\r\n\r\nAnother thread went into Avenir vs Gotham pretty
    thoroughly, and I agree that Avenir will prove the more lasting because its excellence
    is less obtrusive, more natural, nearly transparent. But I have nothing against
    Gotham: it just has a way of calling attention to itself that Avenir does not.
    \r\n\r\nNow if you asked, back when it was new, if Syntax would be old milk in
    ten years...it's been around since 1968 and it's stronger than ever, having inspired
    a long run of wannabee type designs."
  created: '2008-03-01 04:33:30'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: I may not have the best insight here, as I was under ten years old for the
    entire decade of the eighties, but are we speaking of Eurostile's current applications,
    or it's applications when it was new and fresh in the eighties? I would relate
    it more to that of the one-trick-pony Bank Gothic, which we have all learned is
    required by law on all sci-fi/action epic movie titles, end credits, and dvd cases.
    Eurostile to me only has this one voice, whereas Gotham has an overal neutral
    tone to it. For the sake of discourse, if we were to say that Gotham is kind of
    like Helvetica in it's voice, then I think the applications are decidedly more
    endless than that of Eurostile.
  created: '2008-03-01 19:13:24'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: If anyone knows what will be considered popular, inventive, classic, or influential
    in 2018, then they are going to be the only millionaire in type design.
  created: '2008-03-01 19:40:22'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> when it was new and fresh in the eighties</em>\r\n\r\nThe 80s was actually
    seeing a revival of Eurostile, which dates from the early 60s (or really the early
    50s if we consider its beginnings in the all-caps Microgramma). \r\n\r\nWhich
    may suggest that if Gotham looks outdated in 10 years, in 20 it might be worth
    another look!"
  created: '2008-03-01 19:42:11'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "http://www.onthemedia.org/episodes/2008/02/22/segments/94075\r\n\r\nThis
    was on several blogs last week. Sam Berlow from The Font Bureau talks about the
    various typefaces and identities used by the various presidential candidates.
    For Obama, he compares Gotham to a \"set of freshly manicured nails,\" and says
    its the \"metrosexual\" one of the bunch. I don't know if I agree entirely with
    that statement, but I do think it's harder to make Gotham look blunt, dull and
    ugly than Helvetica, which is a rather easy task."
  created: '2008-03-02 01:41:04'
- author:
    name: Hofweber
    picture: 114098
  body: "You said it, Josh. Gotham can be easier to abuse given certain contexts,
    but it's a much easier font to work with in the genres implied. \r\n\r\nAs far
    as font usage in ratio to neutrality, it should scale upwards, in that eurostile
    is far more discernable it should be far less used than Gotham. The same can be
    said when using Gotham and Avenir. The more identifiable a font is, the less it
    should be used overall. Although more applications in which a graphic designer
    is hired tend lend themselves to a certain style that we think of as being \"metrosexual\"
    etc.\r\n\r\nAs a side note, I was in San Francisco this weekend and saw enough
    Futura and Eurostile to make me hurl, and any use of Gotham was a breath of fresh
    air. That being said, I do rather wish we could catch ourselves so as to not have
    the same thing happen with Gotham, as the OP was talking about."
  created: '2008-03-03 04:34:45'
- author:
    name: albriks
  body: "<em>The only way I can see if falling from grace is if Microsoft licenses
    it and ships it with Windows or Office.</em>\r\n\r\n\r\nThey probably won't. They
    might however do their own version that will elevate the Microsoft haters to yet
    another level. "
  created: '2008-03-03 11:34:30'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: I think it's becoming harder and harder for people to hate on Microsoft's
    type, especially with Apple settling into serious mediocrity with the fonts they
    ship. I haven't worked on a PC since Windows 98, but the new "C" fonts that shipped
    with Vista are not only good for Windows, but are some of the best fonts released
    in the last few years. And with ClearType and everything, it's clear Microsoft
    has placed typography as a high priority. Everything in the world has gone completely
    upside down!
  created: '2008-03-03 19:47:04'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: Maybe in 10 years, Microsoft will be seen as the gold-standard of quality
    typography? Of course, they can never take fonts out once they've added them,
    so Windows will always have fonts that will end up as god-awful email signatures
    for secretaries across the land.
  created: '2008-03-03 19:50:56'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\r\nRight, it's hard to take fonts out of a product - but like the Cylons
    there is a plan. #1 sell fonts to Apple so they get the positive glow aura effect
    of shipping on the iPhone, and #2 add font management features to the products
    so although the Secretary-loved fonts are still there under the hood they may
    not be as redily exposed.     \r\n"
  created: '2008-03-03 20:07:48'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'This makes me wonder what would anger more people: keeping Comic Sans and
    Arial around forever, or getting rid of them.'
  created: '2008-03-03 20:35:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: " There was an erroneous article in the German press a few years back that
    said Arial was going away \u2013 that article generated a much greater degree
    of concern amongst customers than the blanket use of Comic Sans in restaurant
    menus across Europe ever has.   "
  created: '2008-03-03 20:52:25'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> David, haven\u2019t you ever grown tired of a song you like because it\u2019s
    being used in car ads on TV?  \r\n\r\nLet me think...... :^) "
  created: '2008-03-03 22:50:05'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "[[Gotham]] is much more likely to go the way of [[Meta]] or of [[Trade Gothic]]
    or of [[DIN]]. Each of these is classic, and will always remain classic. But as
    with any classic it will show its stamp of time. \r\n\r\nSo, what is today's Eurostile?"
  created: '2008-03-04 02:54:29'
- author:
    name: farquart
  body: "This is my first post, I've been watching for a long time. Can it really
    be said that Gotham will be like Meta and Trade Gothic? I never see the lowercase
    used, only caps, and the italics seem to be less than popular, no?\r\n\r\nFarquart"
  created: '2008-03-04 03:35:16'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "<em>So, what is today\u2019s Eurostile?</em>\r\nIronically, I believe it
    is the square sans superfamily. Klavika, Apex etc. I think this look is characteristic
    of our times and will fall from grace."
  created: '2008-03-04 06:18:25'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "Randy -- totally agree with you, although I must admit I use these square
    sans faces on a ton of projects. Probably not a good option for long-term identities,
    but it works well for a lot of ephemeral projects. Comparing Apex and Klavika:
    Apex will probably age more gracefully, and Klavika will probably scream \"first
    decade of 2000s.\" Apex kind of makes me think of Legacy Sans -- obviously from
    the 80s, but still suitable for a lot of projects. I imagine Apex will be like
    this: obviously from this decade, but still suitable for making things look clean,
    crisp, and machined 20 years from now.\r\n\r\nSii -- I love the idea of having
    the ClearType collection on Apple Products. Any idea when this will start shipping
    on iPhones and Macs? (Maybe it already has, since I haven't looked at new computers
    in a couple years)."
  created: '2008-03-04 21:38:56'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Hi Josh, nothing to announce on that front as of now. However, Apple does
    add fonts based on customer demand, so ping your favorite Apple employee (like
    that guy with all the piercings and tats who works at the U-Village Apple store).
    Also if you work for a big Apple customer a request is more likely to make it
    down the chain to the Apple font group. ;-)
  created: '2008-03-04 23:51:24'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: 'I will alert the geniuses at the GeniusBar -- "add ClearType." I''m not familiar
    with the tat dude, but I love the girl with curly hair at the Genius Bar, she
    knows what she''s doing. I know a lot of designers at MS use Macs (at least upper-level
    people who can get away with it), so I wonder if there''s people at Apple who
    use PCs? Probably not -- guru Jobs would have them cleansed from the eyes of the
    chosen. '
  created: '2008-03-05 02:21:05'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "The 'ilarious irony of this thread, (to me) is, that as a result of the decisions
    made in OS lands, the simplified square sans are going to be the rats, pigeons,
    and cockroaches of type's future. The simplified square sans is what survives
    best on TV and the web in the face of low resolution, and ad hoc, or semi-ad hoc
    rendering. When the previously mentioned decision-makers 'took away' size-dependent
    type enabling of all kinds, they sealed the deal against such marvels as Gotham,
    because both clients and designers understand, visually, what works best for both
    print and screen-based media, wins for both! So, get used to 'em.\r\n\r\n\"...\u2014
    I love the idea of having the ClearType collection on Apple Products.\"\r\nHey!,
    have you looked at 'em on the Mac? You can kiss, Apple and Apple's big customers
    from foot to navel, inclusively, and it ain't a gonna make your idea look better.
    The ClearType collection ain't just dressed in frog suits you know. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-03-05 13:08:18'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "David -- I don't particularly want the ClearType collection because I think
    those fonts are going to help me design better, although I think they're all beautifully
    done and wouldn't necessarily count out using them for design projects. It's just
    that, as most deisgners can attest to, clients invariably run Windows, as do a
    lot of office-type people you need to communicate with. When you're talking about
    sending a client a .pdf for review, fine, who cares what fonts they have. But
    having ClearType fonts would be great when there's PowerPoint presentations and
    Word .docs being edited by people who run Windows, but you still want it to look
    semi-presentable and don't want to use Arial. This would just be really useful
    for office communications between Mac and PC users. I don't see how any harm (at
    least for the general consumer and designers) could come out of Microsoft licensing
    their ClearType fonts to Apple.\r\n\r\nAs far as square sans being the cockroaches
    and pigeons of type, you have a good argument. I love using them precisely for
    the reason you brought up -- I know they'll look good on screen and on paper.
    However, it doesn't matter how perfectly suitable these fonts are for various
    media, if people are forced to look at them long enough there's going to be a
    reactionary response, and everyone will start using condensed Bodoni or something
    for screen :)"
  created: '2008-03-06 01:21:25'
- author:
    name: ultrasparky
    picture: 109750
  body: The latest version of Office for the Mac includes the ClearType fonts, conveniently.
  created: '2008-03-06 08:06:02'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'True, that and the fact that Ascender has been offering them to the graphic
    designer market since June addresses most of Josh''s Mac scenarios. Beyond that
    however I think there''s still value in them becoming as ubiquitous as the Web
    fonts, shipping with various devices and all OSs.  '
  created: '2008-03-06 15:57:57'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "I agree that Gotham is a classic in the making. I say \"in the making\" because
    I think we're still a tad too close to it for it to be a classic just yet. I think
    the design community's collective love and appreciation of H&F-J is also contributing
    to Gotham's popularity (I am one of these appreciators, by the way). Its impression
    and structure is timeless, but it's not without its own unique characteristics.
    Gotham's widespread use will help it set into the concrete of visual cultural
    memory, making it feel familiar to even those who don't pay attention.\r\n\r\nBut,
    as has been pointed out elsewhere, it is a nod and a wink away from Avenir, particularly
    in situations where the full character set is not in use, so time will be the
    true test of Gotham's staying power. My vote is that it will endure, but who can
    say what will and will not linger? That's for future generations to decide.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-06 16:08:38'
- author:
    name: qmanning
    picture: 110592
  body: "I'm addicted to Gotham. I dunno why - I can usually find a way to use it
    in a project and have it work and have a hard time finding a substitute because
    it doesn't resonate with me like Gotham does. \r\n\r\nIt's sort of annoying :p"
  created: '2009-07-08 21:03:17'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: Only a year later and Gotham seems to be becoming a has-been to me. Now everyone
    seems to be getting drunk on Klavika.
  created: '2009-07-10 14:51:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...widespread use will help it set into the concrete of visual cultural
    memory...</em>\r\n\r\nEspecially if it becomes a reference point in the metaculture,
    which seems to be the case--for instance it is the main typeface of David Rault's
    new book <em>Guide pratique de choix typographique</em>, which will soon be published
    in English, I believe. (BTW, thanks for the book David--send me your address and
    I'll return the favour).\r\n\r\nI do think that types which achieve a critical
    mass of usage will continue to be used, this is my experience with Fontesque,
    which was very popular 15 years ago and continues to sell steadily at a modest
    level. \r\n\r\nI always think of Ridley Scott's scifi movies, Alien and especially
    Blade Runner, where past genres persevere, and Green Day!\r\n\r\nHas it always
    been that way, or does the present digital era erase the distinction between museum
    and warehouse, with the artefacts of culture remaining perpetually shiny and new?
    For all that one may criticize font formats, it is surely a huge benefit to foundries
    that font software formats have remained viable for twenty+ years."
  created: '2009-07-10 17:48:50'
date: '2008-02-29 15:52:47'
title: Gotham in Ten Years

---
