---
author:
  name: Thomas Phinney
  picture: 128358
body: "Recently, in a completely off-topic post in another thread, \"Fanatic Font
  Addict\" wrote:\r\n\r\n<cite>I\u2019ve been on Typophile less than twenty-four hours
  and am not a professional font designer. However I felt obliged to point out the
  following. I notice there are repeated references in this forum to FontLab. However,
  no one seems to be familiar at all with a product called FontCreator. FontCreator
  is vastly superior to anything put out by Fontlab. I advise you to go to cnet.com
  and download a 30 day trial copy and see for yourself. (And I most certainly do
  not work for the company.)</cite>\r\n\r\nI have never used FontCreator from HighLogic.
  Looking at its feature list, it seems to be appropriately priced for what it does,
  and it may be quite capable in some areas. It supports up to 64K glyphs, and the
  \"professional edition\" is only $149.\r\n\r\nHowever, just going by the comparison
  chart on the HighLogic web site (http://www.high-logic.com/comparisonchart.html),
  it has several *huge* shortcomings for many, probably most, professional users:\r\n\r\n1)
  FontCreator only runs on Windows (http://www.high-logic.com/fontcreator.html). Most
  professional font developers use a Mac as their primary machine. (I'm not one of
  them, but I think it's important.)\r\n\r\n2) It can generate final fonts only with
  TrueType outlines, as .ttf (OpenType TrueType / Windows TrueType). It can't generate
  fonts as Mac TrueType, Mac Type 1, or Windows Type 1.\r\n\r\n3) It can only open
  .ttf and .otf fonts - it cannot open Type 1 (\"PostScript\") fonts.\r\n\r\n4) FontCreator
  has no built-in support for OpenType layout features - they expect you to use VOLT
  instead.\r\n\r\nI'm not saying these things to slam FontCreator. It may very well
  be a really wonderful tool for what it does. But I think the combination of those
  factors would utterly rule it out for the huge majority of professional type designers,
  which hardly makes it \"vastly superior.\"\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
comments:
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "But are you disputing their claim of having the \"most popular font editor\"?
    \ ;)\r\n\r\nI think lack of OT features, PS outlines only, in and out, and PC
    platform only pretty much kill it as an option for me. \r\n\r\nThere has always
    been a market for this kind of tool but I don't think it really overlaps with
    the market for FL. "
  created: '2008-02-29 23:43:29'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'Perhaps they should be comparing themselves with the other entry-level font
    editor: <a href="http://www.fontlab.com/cgibin/t.cgi?a=310911&e=font-editor/fontlab-studio/">TypeTool</a>.
    But even then, I don''t think FontCreator matches up.'
  created: '2008-03-01 00:01:32'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I  have tried it.  I'm working a couple typefaces and can't afford to buy
    Fontlab at the moment... \r\n\r\nFont Creator's vector editing tools are cumbersome
    and unpleasant to use.\r\n\r\nFor that reason, I drew my characters in Corel.
    FontCreator lets you import shapes as JPEGs or gifs or you can drag and drop vectors,
    so I thought Id make the outline in Corel and turn them into a font in FontCreator.
    However, I found that (at least in my experience) it messed them up, adding nodes
    where none were intended or required and even adding bevels to some corners. So,
    I'll just save my pennies.\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-03-01 02:22:20'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I should note that it wasn't the folks from Highlogic claiming their tool
    was better than anything from FontLab, it was our newbie Typophile \"Fanatic Font
    Addict.\"\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT "
  created: '2008-03-03 10:14:16'
- author:
    name: fanatic font addict
    picture: 114337
  body: "Just some remarks explaining my previous endorsement of FontCreator.  Its
    obviously a very complex product and also seems to be comprehensive in its functionality.
    \ But it also seems very well designed to me. I as a novice have been able to
    perform some fairly obscure tasks using it.  Example one:  I wanted to change
    the line spacing for an existing font, and was able to accomplish this within
    an hour of downloading FontCreator for the first time, having never used it or
    FontLab or any other font creation software previously.  The second example is
    even more obscure.  For a project I'm working on, I wanted to create a font that
    consisted of nothing more than varying advance widths - a different advance width
    for each character and no glyphs at all.  FontCreator was the only product I figured
    out how to do it on, and I downloaded FontLab and several other products.  Furthermore,
    FontLab seems to have all these different products with overlapping functionality,
    as if they've been operating as a partial monopoly and are really trying to maximize
    they're revenue through marketing. \r\n\r\nFinally, (and this is the primary reason
    I am adding to this thread now)  I registered at the High-Logic Font Creator forum
    for the first time less than two hours ago, and my original question I posted
    in this forum has already been answered over there.\r\n\r\nSo, it just surprised
    me that no one here really seemed to be familiar with them at all."
  created: '2008-03-06 21:47:45'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I first heard of Hi-Logic here on Typophile, so somebody here knows about
    it. \r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-03-06 23:24:07'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\"seems to be comprehensive in its functionality\"? Hmmm. That's kind of
    funny, I thought all four of those things I cited in my first post were really
    fundamental omissions.\r\n\r\nI think it's great that you find FontCreator easy
    to use. I would not for a moment defend the ease of use or approachability of
    FontLab, and I'm quite willing to believe that FontCreator could be vastly easier
    to use. \r\n\r\nBut of course all of the functionality you mentioned is present
    in FontLab (and presumably DTL FontMaster and FontForge as well, among others).
    None of those functions are particularly advanced or obscure, IMO.\r\n\r\nI'm
    curious about one thing, though: when you changed the line spacing, WHICH kinds
    of line spacing in the final font did you change? You see, there are several different
    values relating to vertical spacing in a TrueType font, and they are used in different
    ways on different platforms, and sometimes even by different applications on the
    same platform.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-03-07 05:49:33'
- author:
    name: fanatic font addict
    picture: 114337
  body: "T:\r\n\r\nAs far as the line spacing problem, there was this font I found
    that had a mottled antiquated times new roman appearance (\"Titus Cyberbit Basic\"),
    at least when rendered as bold I think, which I wanted to embed in an application
    I was developing.  However, the line spacing was ridiculously large.  So I downloaded
    FontCreator, could have been the first thing I found,  and you're right, there's
    a profusion of terminology pertaining to this and just about everything else related
    to fonts.  And yet I  accomplished my task pretty quickly, and the fact the font
    was embedded in my own application made other platform-related issues a nonconcern.
    \  It looks like I tweaked typo line gap, win ascent, win descent, ascender, descender,
    line gap and probably some other things until I got the results I wanted. \r\n\r\nThat
    second problem I mentioned, developing a font consisting of varying advance widths,
    actually involved other things as well.  For example I wanted the size of the
    font to be calculated only above the baseline.  This as well I could only figure
    out how to do with FontCreator.  (Development of this \"font\" had to do with
    embedding images in text.)\r\n\r\nHowever, when a complete novice can in short
    order be productive with a big complex piece of software, I think its an indication
    its very well designed.\r\n\r\nAs far as the four problems you mentioned, two
    of them were just that FontCreator doesn't run on a Mac.  But those aren't deficiencies
    per se, just marketing decisions.  \r\n\r\nJust think about it -  FontLab has
    the fiecely loyal following and FontCreator is the new kid on the block.  What
    do they have to bring to the table other than superior design and functionality.
    \ (Sort of how Mac survives against the PC.)"
  created: '2008-03-07 14:41:58'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I used the trial edition of FontCreator for my first attempt at type design
    three years ago. I have a very vague recollection of it, though I don't remember
    being that impressed with its bezier handling. As I didn't advance beyond the
    stage of drawing glyphs, I didn't get a chance to try out its full functionality.\r\n\r\nFrom
    Thomas's list, I see that it's got a number of major strikes against it. However,
    if it does support up to 64K glyphs and the professional edition is only $149,
    then that's a critical point of consideration for someone looking to generate
    CJK fonts. FontLab Studio only generates fonts of up to 6400 glyphs, which is
    simply not enough for this purpose, and AsiaFont Studio, which can handle 65536
    glyphs, costs $1999.\r\n\r\nEven if one is limited to .ttf fonts without Opentype
    features, the mere possibility of generating a full CJK font for an affordable
    price range is an important argument in FontCreator's favour. I could imagine
    that a CJK font designer would pay for FontCreator just to generate a large font
    whose individual glyphs were designed using other font creation software."
  created: '2008-03-09 12:18:07'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"FontLab seems to have all these different products with overlapping functionality,
    as if they\u2019ve been operating as a partial monopoly and are really trying
    to maximize they\u2019re revenue through marketing.\"\r\n\r\nIt usually takes
    people years to figure this out, if they ever do. Well done!\r\n\r\nAs Thomas
    rightly points out, FC has some shortcomings for professionals in the production
    department, but if you can do your stuff for $199 and not be bothered, go for
    it! As you can probably see now, it's  very hard to compare until you've been
    through lots of fonts, and perhaps more importantly, lots of clients. \r\n\r\nTime,
    is on FC's side though, as I don't think it's likely that FL'll improve, without
    competition, and even then, it's probably only 50%-50% (that is to say, 50% of
    what they change will be retrograde.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-03-10 13:24:21'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>As far as the four problems you mentioned, two of them were just that
    FontCreator doesn\u2019t run on a Mac. But those aren\u2019t deficiencies per
    se, just marketing decisions.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe decision to support only one operating
    environment can have fairly significant consequences from a software engineering
    perspective. Once product development goes down the dark and narrow path of relying
    heavily on platform-specific components, its really hard to go back. I would be
    just as skeptical of a Mac only product, perhaps more so, because I want to maintain
    the ability to chose. \r\n\r\nThe problem is that FontCreator doesn't compete
    against FontLab, it competes against TypeTool for the low end market. Font creation
    is a sufficiently small niche that there aren't enough customers to support lots
    of competing products. If there were such a thing as FontCreator Pro, might feel
    differently. FC is taking market share without providing any of the functionality
    that pro users need. "
  created: '2008-03-10 20:38:29'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: There is always Font Forge and that is free. And it is incredibly sophisticated.
  created: '2008-03-10 22:11:54'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Hmmm,\r\n\r\n\"FC is taking market share without providing any of the functionality
    that pro users need.\"\r\n\r\nReplace FC, with GoogleDocs, Buzzword, Star Office
    or even Mac OS. It's a slippery slope, don\u2019t you think. Competition is good.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-11 01:38:14'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "<cite>I don\u2019t think it\u2019s likely that FL\u2019ll improve, without
    competition, and even then, it\u2019s probably only 50%-50% (that is to say, 50%
    of what they change will be retrograde.</cite>\r\n\r\nHm... :-)"
  created: '2008-03-11 18:38:49'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Hm... :-)\"\r\n\r\nI can prove it. :)\r\n\r\nI can also show that multiple
    requests for upgrades to a paying customer have been ignored for months. \r\n\r\nIs
    there anyone even home there?\r\n\r\nCheerz!"
  created: '2008-03-12 12:54:46'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Dave, to be fair, Fontlab isn\u2019t a company with a whole lot of customers
    or much of a budget to work with. It may not be the best piece of software in
    the world, but given how small the market is I\u2019m sort of surprised Fontlab
    even exists."
  created: '2008-03-12 13:51:14'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: I am sorry for being silent for some time, and I am not ready to announce
    anything specific, but some exciting announcements are to be expected soon. I
    am not retired yet :)
  created: '2008-03-12 19:54:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I would hope at least bug fixes are being attended to.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-12 20:13:50'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/BugBackpack_4231.jpg]'
  created: '2008-03-12 23:23:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am glad you got a leg up with that one, Dan :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-13 02:03:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "What ever it is Yuri, I'm certainly hoping for the best!\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-03-13 11:25:05'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\"As far as the four problems you mentioned, two of them were just that FontCreator
    doesn\u2019t run on a Mac.\"\r\n\r\nNo, *one* of them was not running on a Mac.
    Another was not generating a bunch of formats, which included some Mac formats
    but also Windows Type 1.\r\n\r\nI believe I remember some tool which actually
    solved the problem of generating Mac format fonts on the Windows platform - it
    spit out the fonts in an archived file which could then be uncompressed on Mac
    OS! It was a very clever solution for a tool that wanted to run only on Windows,
    but allow the Windows user to support Mac clients.\r\n\r\nDave B: I agree that
    FontLab has overwhelming market share with their products. But that doesn't stop
    them from needing/wanting to innovate: they want upgrade revenue. If the value
    isn't there, their existing customers won't buy new versions, and if they already
    have major market share, how do they make money? The same applies to lots of companies
    who have major market share in some particular areas, whether it's Adobe or Microsoft.\r\n\r\nSome
    companies do fail to pursue this path, but it costs them both in upgrade revenue
    and the eventual emergence of competitors. Think what happened to Brand X after
    they dropped the ball for a few years too many in a software competition we're
    all familiar with....\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-03-14 06:40:39'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>I believe I remember some tool which actually solved the problem of
    generating Mac format fonts on the Windows platform </cite>\r\n\r\nI think this
    was the \"Macromedia PC to Macintosh Font Conversion Utility\" which shipped with
    the Windows version of Brand X. "
  created: '2008-03-14 20:48:39'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: "I use FC, and it has its issues. As far as the not supporting OT features
    natively, some of the more avid users have now compiled tutorials on their forum
    on how to add those features, and it is something the developer is considering
    adding. It's a fairly lively, if small, community of users, and it is being actively
    developed and reworked to get better. What it does, it does pretty well. It's
    no world beater, but it is easier to use than FontForge, if not nearly as powerful.
    I agree with the comparison to TypeTool rather than FontLab.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-14 22:09:59'
- author:
    name: allanm1
    picture: 110782
  body: "I personally think Font Creator is great, and I use it at my workplace. The
    features that I use are the global glyph transformations and the creation of outlines
    from bitmap images (something that FontLab can't do - you need ScanFont). But
    as a font designer's tool it is useless, because it doesnt have proper bezier
    drawing tools (see [[http://www.cr8software.net/article004.html]]). \r\n\r\n<cite>Time,
    is on FC\u2019s side though, as I don\u2019t think it\u2019s likely that FL\u2019ll
    improve, without competition</cite>\r\nFontCreator is aimed at a different market
    (there ARE non-designers out there that need to use font editors, and for whom
    font lab is WAY too complex). There is no hope of competing with FontLabs products
    within their market niche. They purchased Fontographer, and also DTP's Type Designer
    (now no longer on the market). This is sad, because, as you imply, competition
    leeds to better products and better prices.\r\n\r\nAlso, regarding Jongseong's
    comment - does anyone know why FontLab Studio is limited to 6400 glyhs? Lesser
    font editors (including TypeTool) can handle over 65,000. Seems like a deliberate
    limit to encourage the purchase of AsiaFont Studio to me.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-15 02:44:15'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>something that FontLab can\u2019t do - you need ScanFont</cite>\r\nWhat
    are you talking about? Fontlab can scan bitmaps. I do it all the time."
  created: '2008-03-15 03:12:11'
- author:
    name: allanm1
    picture: 110782
  body: "<cite>What are you talking about? Fontlab can scan bitmaps. I do it all the
    time.</cite>\r\nSorry, you are right - you can do that in version 5. (Last version
    that I used was 4.6)."
  created: '2008-03-15 05:31:06'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I must admit that Fontlab Ltd. currently has a somewhat confusing list of
    products for font editing. So, let's take a look: \r\n\r\nTypeTool 3 (US$99) is
    a font editor that support Type 1, OpenType PS (.otf) and OpenType TT (.ttf),
    note that it supports up to 65,535 glyphs and generally serves as a rather effective
    font editor for non-professionals. The \"core\" of TypeTool is based on FontLab
    Studio 5, so the generated fonts have the same quality (with autohinting etc.).
    No support for adding OpenType Layout features, so you may need to use Microsoft
    VOLT or Adobe FDK for OpenType for that. Obviously, as I work for Fontlab Ltd.,
    it would be unfair for me to draw any comparisons with FontCreator, but I'd be
    thrilled to see a comparative review between TypeTool and FontCreator some time.
    \r\n\r\nFontographer ($349) is really in a 'transitional' state. Two years ago
    we acquired the product to salvage it from complete extinction (something that
    happened to FontStudio and many other font editing products). We have upgraded
    it to Mac OS X but nothing much less happened, the last feature upgrade was done
    by Macromedia back in 1996. We have great plans for Fontographer in the future,
    but it's too early to announce something. \r\n\r\nFontLab Studio ($649) is our
    high-end font editor, the one that most of Typophile readers are probably familiar
    with. We are working on the next version of the product right now. The 6,400 glyph
    limit has been introduced back in the days when we launched a separate product,
    AsiaFont Studio, specifically for the Asian market. The limit was not much of
    a problem then because hardly any non-Asian font reached that limit, and for simple
    font work there was always TypeTool that did not have this limitation. These days,
    even European OpenType fonts can reach the 6,400 limit if they come with lots
    of alterates, so we are considering the possibility to lift that limitation in
    the next version. \r\n\r\nAsiaFont Studio ($1999) is \"FontLab 4.6 on steroids\",
    an editor based on the previous version of our high-end editor, extended with
    some features for Asian type design and supporting some Asian font formats. We
    are currently working on the next version of a font editor for that segment, details
    to be announced. \r\n\r\nThere is a comparison chart showing the main differences
    between the four font editors at:\r\nhttp://www.fontlab.com/fontlab-products/compare/\r\n\r\nAs
    far as our competition goes, we are thrilled to see something going on. We view
    FontForge, FontCreator and DTL FontMaster as interesting alternatives, or sometimes
    as complements to our own products. For example, I know some users who use FontLab
    Studio combined with FontForge or with some DTL FontMaster modules. We think that
    competition on the market, be it as small and specialized as font editing software,
    is essential and good. I have been in regular (though occasional) e-mail contact
    with Erwin Denissen (FontCreator), Frank Blokland (DTL FontMaster) and George
    Williams (FontForge), the tone of those exchanges was always friendly, and I doubt
    there is any 'negative competition' going on. \r\n\r\nWe think that Fontlab Ltd.
    can compete successfully in questions of both product quality and support. I realize
    very well that we need to improve in both aspects, and I can assure you all that
    we're not letting us rest on this. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam Twardoch\r\nFontlab Ltd.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-16 10:45:24'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "That may all be true, but it don't help when the start point will not turn
    blue and interpolate, as there is no reason for it not to! ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-03-18 13:44:50'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "\u2018[\u2026] As far as our competition goes, we are thrilled to see something
    going on. We view FontForge, FontCreator and DTL FontMaster as interesting alternatives,
    or sometimes as complements to our own products [\u2026]\u2019\r\n\r\nSeptember
    last year Miguel Sousa of Adobe and I gave a duo presentation at the FM Track
    during the ATypI TypeTech Forum in Brighton. Using two beamers we compared some
    parts of the font production for which at Adobe the FDK is combined with FontLab
    and for which FM is used at DTL. The comparison was informative and enjoyable
    and overall well received.\r\n\r\nPerhaps we could repeat such a comparison on
    a larger scale and with multiple beamers starring FontLab, FontForge, FontCreator
    and DTL FontMaster, for instance in the main program of the coming ATypI conference
    at St. Petersburg. The submission deadline has been extended till the 14th of
    April, so there is time to come up with a joined proposal.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-31 13:25:12'
date: '2008-02-29 22:57:02'
node_type: forum
title: FontCreator vs FontLab

---
