---
author:
  name: dux
  picture: 110146
body: "In my opinion this feature is detrimental to discussion.\r\n\r\nThings are
  said and that is that. You can retract or change opinion, but to overwrite (or delete)
  a previous comment is disengenuous and unhelpful for discussion. Besides, you can't
  do it in speech as much as you might want to!\r\n\r\nIn a previous thread a message
  was removed that essentially changed the conversation and appearance of what I was
  saying. So much so, someone emailed me to say they were offended by what appeared
  to them was bullying, when in fact it was v. much the opposite.\r\n\r\nLet's edit
  this feature out\r\n\r\njust me? ok..."
comments:
- author:
    name: coach outlet online-spammer
  body: "<P>Before we begin thinking the GHD IV Styler is following the same trend
    as video & DVD players, lets take just show just a few major differences. Firstly,
    the GHD IV Styler has almost nothing realistic competition. The GHD IV styler
    is widely regarded for a consumer and high end (hairdressers) while the number
    1 hair styling tool.Secondly, as techniology developes the money necessary production
    reduces thus retail prices reduce. Well my answer suggestions that GHD haven\u2019t
    handed over, any reduction in production costs with the retailer (salon owners).
    In fact cost prices have gone up resulting from <a href=\"http://www.louisvuittonpursebag.com/\"><strong>louis
    vuitton bags</strong></a>  a surge in the RRP. Here we are at in the event the
    GHD MK1 to <a href=\"http://www.coachfactoryoutleti.org/\"><strong>coach factory
    outlet</strong></a>  Mk3 were discounted one of the a RRP of ??99, the actual
    MK4 GHD styler provides a RRP of ??119.</P><P></P><P>Exactly what continues to
    be lowering the retail prices? The result we have found simple. Online competition,
    with online retailer endeavoring to out do eath other ghd hair straightener for
    being the lowest priced website for GHD IV Styler . I personally, work at a hairdressing
    salon <a href=\"http://www.coachoutletonlinepicke.com/\"><strong>coach outlet
    online</strong></a>  and i know which price range of GHD IV Styler. Despite that
    these web based stores receive massive discounts on there products, they could
    still merely be making between <a href=\"http://www.coachoutletonline-bag.com/\"><strong>coach
    outlet online</strong></a>  ??6-8 a hard and fast and perhaps any loss. I possed
    this with a senior GHD worker from a GHD event in the year. Her response, was
    which she believed, people were with their company as loss leaders to operate
    individuals to there sites. In the hope they retain the prospect for <a href=\"http://www.buyscoachoutletonline.net/\"><strong>coach
    outlet online</strong></a>  future purchases of hair & bath and body goods.I cannot
    really buy into this theory.Lots of individuals will for sure invest in a straightners
    without additional shampoos and styling products. So, i\u2019m not really really
    sure the way this works, in the form of long-term business strategy. The very
    first thing for several though, would be that the consumer might be gaining from
    these reduced prices. </P><P></P><P>In order <a href=\"http://www.coachpurseoutletss.net/\"><strong>cheap
    coach purses</strong></a>  to find out about GHD and locate the ideal price on
    GHD hair straighteners, <a href=\"http://www.cheapcoachbagusas.com/\"><strong>cheap
    coach purses</strong></a>  then visit our website GHD IV Styler Stockists.Stories
    about Britney Spears and her hair disasters are not uncommon, but was damage to
    britney\u2019s hair just before the infamous shaving incident caused buy faulty,
    broken or damaged ghd hair straighteners? Faulty ghd\u2019s usually are not all
    that uncommon and so they can on occasions over-heat and cause terminal damage
    to curly hair. Maybe Britney must have used a ghd repair service, there are a
    couple companies these days which can participate in a ghd repair shop with regard
    to ??19.95 likely the biggest ghd repair company in england and wales is Ion Originals
    Ltd. they run websites that include www.ghdrepair.co.uk It is advisable to get
    those ghd\u2019s inspected they were eradicated or become faulty.Common ghd faults
    include: sparking, buzzing, intermittent power, cable faults & over-heating. </P><P></P>"
  created: '2012-11-30 02:59:49'
- author:
    name: Renko
    picture: 111443
  body: 'I second that. '
  created: '2008-03-03 13:20:50'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I disagree. This topic has come up before, ever since the update last summer
    which has caused edited posts to drop to the bottom and therefore out of context.\r\n\r\nIt
    was a long tradition on the Type ID board for people to post a quick ID and then
    go back in and add the link. The edit feature was very important there.\r\n\r\nI
    often reread my posts and edit for spelling, grammar and clarity. I only (now)
    do this when there isn't another post after mine, but there have been MANY times
    when I've wished I could change or add something and have refrained for fear of
    the thread not making sense.\r\n\r\nAdditionally there have been times when I've
    said something in the heat of the moment and later regretted it. In those cases
    where I edit for content, I always indicate that I have done so.\r\n\r\nMy suggestion
    would be to allow the edit feature as before, where the comment remains in its
    proper order in the thread, but for there to be a way for readers to know that
    the comment has been edited."
  created: '2008-03-03 14:19:21'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: Since this will probably become an opinion poll, I vote FOR edit. Many times
    I hit post, and then see a typo as the file goes into the ether. I hate typos,
    and like the ability to correct such for a short time.
  created: '2008-03-03 14:30:12'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: ">>In a previous thread a message was removed that essentially changed the
    conversation and appearance of what I was saying. So much so, someone emailed
    me to say they were offended by what appeared to them was bullying, when in fact
    it was v. much the opposite.\r\n<<\r\n\r\nDux; I guess the moral of the story
    is you should cut and paste a quote from the message you're responding to in your
    own message. Unfortunately that will make the threads longer than they'd need
    to be.\r\nBut you're right, otherwise someone who doesn't agree with you could
    edit their comment after you've replied and completely change the meaning of your
    response.\r\n\r\nJason C"
  created: '2008-03-03 14:38:11'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I'd vote for being able to edit for a period of time (24 hours?).\r\n\r\nEditing
    makes perfect sense for typos/spelling/clarification, but not so much for being
    able to go back to a month old conversation and start changing the entire history
    of the discussion (which has happened)."
  created: '2008-03-03 14:45:49'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: What Patty said.
  created: '2008-03-03 14:56:51'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "The problem with that, Patty, is that it can really change the whole conversation.\r\n\r\nBob:
    You are a jerk.\r\nSam: No, YOU are a jerk.\r\nBob: You are a really stupid jerk.\r\nSam:
    No, you are the stupidest jerk face ever!\r\n\r\nBob may regret that a year later
    and change the whole conversation:\r\n\r\nBob: You are a fine human being.\r\nSam:
    No, YOU are a jerk.\r\nBob: I don't know why you are being so hateful. I find
    you to be pleasant and caring.\r\nSam: No, you are the stupidest jerk face ever!\r\n\r\n(Kind
    of unfair to Sam).\r\n\r\nOK, yea, maybe a stretch, but I think the point is there."
  created: '2008-03-03 15:13:33'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I vote for edit staying around. At one time or another we\u2019ve all written
    something that came out backward and read horribly, and only realized it five
    minutes later. Being able to go back and fix it real quick keeps Typophile pretty
    civilized.\r\n\r\nOne suggestion I do have is that edits be tracked with comments
    regarding the nature of the edits so that moderators can spot people who abuse
    the feature. I frequent a few other forums that handle edits this way, and it
    keeps people in line."
  created: '2008-03-03 15:48:05'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "i reserve my right to edit anything i write if given the opportunity. if
    my words in digital archives are going to outlive me you can bet i'm going to
    optimize them as time and reflection allow.\r\n\r\nnot sure if the edit in question
    was a self-edit or admin imposed ? \r\nno reason for the latter beyond de-flaming,
    but that doesn't seem to be a problem among this erudite group.\r\n\r\nwhat exactly
    does it mean to \"abuse the feature\" ? \r\nas far as i can tell in this GUI i
    have no ability to edit anyone else's posts, and i'm not a coder. self-editing
    for accuracy and clarity makes sense to me, possibly with some sort of notice
    : \"edited\".\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-03 16:01:49'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Aluminum, that is why I think it's important that it be made clear the post
    has been edited.\r\n\r\nBob: (edited) You are a fine human being.\r\nSam: (edited)
    I humbly bow to your excellence, sir.\r\n\r\n(editor's note: this post has now
    slipped out of order. Ironically it seems that if you put the word \"edited\"
    btw carats it disappears. I had to change it to parens)\r\n\r\nI have no problem
    with typophiles being able to edit offensive comments and return the debate to
    the topic at hand.\r\n\r\nThere are also times when posts need to be edited in
    order to remove references to, say, site which give away pirated commercial fonts.\r\n\r\nEvery
    time this subject comes up we have the same debate..."
  created: '2008-03-03 16:06:58'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: The current configuration is so open to mischief and accidental oddity I kind
    of like it.
  created: '2008-03-03 16:07:08'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: ">>There are also times when posts need to be edited in order to remove references
    to, say, site which give away pirated commercial fonts.\r\n\r\nMods should always
    reserve the right to edit an offending post. That's not the issue here. The issue
    is that people can fundamentally change an entire conversation unfairly. I've
    seen it done, MANY times, here on Typophile.\r\n\r\nBeing able to edit spelling
    and grammar errors is one thing, materially changing the intent and content of
    a post is another. A time element sounds like the best idea to me. You have 24
    hours to edit your post. After that? You go down in cache as the stupidest jerk
    face ever."
  created: '2008-03-03 16:26:28'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: I agree with jupiterboy's comment. The edit feature is kind of quirky, I likes
    it.
  created: '2008-03-03 16:41:47'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: I think Bob was kind of being a (edit) not-very-nice-person.
  created: '2008-03-03 17:22:05'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Jupiterboy is onto something. It certainly opens things up to some fun mischief.
    ;o)\r\n\r\nPatty...I think we're just disagreeing where that 'line' is between
    'rephrasing something we recently said in the heat of stupidity' vs. 'affecting
    the permanent record'.\r\n\r\nRephrasing during a debate/discussion is fine. Changing
    history by altering 2-year-old posts can lead to some issues, however.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-03 17:29:12'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Aluminum: to the person who would edit a two-year old post I say get a life.\r\n\r\nAltho...
    I did do that once when I client I had mentioned by name (it was germane to the
    discussion) came across the thread in a google search and wasn't happy. I had
    called her the client from hell - which she was. We had long severed our working
    relationship by then, but still I didn't want that on the record."
  created: '2008-03-03 17:32:53'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "You should have until another post shows up and then no editing. That is
    the only fair way.\r\n\r\nCorrecting grammar? Type slower.\r\n\r\nSaid something
    you wish you didn't? Think before you post.\r\n\r\nPatty has made a perfectly
    reasonable case for the Type ID forum - let that be editable but keep the rest
    of it real, real time, really\u2026\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-03-03 17:48:39'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "When you speak with someone in the same room, your words don't hang in the
    air forever. Here, they do.  \r\n\r\nResponsible people can and will edit responsibly.
    \r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-03-03 17:51:47'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABYou should have until another post shows up and then no editing.
    That is the only fair way.\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd if that happens to be 2.3 seconds
    after you make your own post?\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s so easy to miss a typo or a left-out
    word while typing that it should always be possible to come back to correct your
    misfortunes, whether someone else has posted since or not. Imposing a time limit
    (24 hours works quite well on most board I\u2019ve frequented that have time limits)
    is a good compromise. If you haven\u2019t caught your typo within 24 hours, chances
    are no one else has, either; and your options for attempting to alter the outlook
    of the thread for posterity are limited.\r\n\r\nAnd naturally all edits should
    be visible. The most efficient way I\u2019ve seen of doing this is the Wikipedia-style
    way of displaying edits. In it, a string of text will be automatically inserted
    into the post, along the lines of, \u201CLast edited on Wed 23 July 2007 by Poster.
    Edited 5 times in total. <a href=\"#\">View post history.</a>\u201D\r\n\r\nWith
    this system, not only can all viewers see when the post was last edited and by
    whom, but if they so wish, they can also view an entire threaded display of previous
    versions of the post, with typos, vitriol, broken HTML, and whatever gems may
    be lurking in the hidden shadows quite intact. It makes it impossible to completely
    alter the way a thread looks for posterity, since the original remarks will always
    be visible. It also forces the poster to consider that previous actions are visible
    when editing, so turning, \u201CYou are such a moron\u201D into, \u201CI\u2019ve
    always really liked you\u201D doesn\u2019t work. Instead, one would have to find
    other workarounds, such as, \u201CHeat-of-the-moment personal attack removed with
    apologies\u201D."
  created: '2008-03-03 18:11:21'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "<em>I often reread my posts and edit for spelling, grammar and clarity. I
    only (now) do this when there isn\u2019t another post after mine, but there have
    been MANY times when I\u2019ve wished I could change or add something and have
    refrained for fear of the thread not making sense.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is what i
    often use it for."
  created: '2008-03-03 18:12:36'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Patty:\r\n\r\nYour example of the client is a fine example of why one would
    want to change a past thread. However, it seems as if that would be something
    that an admin could do upon request fairly easily/willingly.\r\n\r\nThe examples
    you are giving are all valid reasons why editing should be left on indefinitely.
    Alas, there's a lot of reasons to NOT do that do. ;o)\r\n\r\n\"Responsible people
    can and will edit responsibly.\"\r\n\r\nYep. But until one can somehow restrict
    a forum so only responsible people post, it probably makes sense to NOT leave
    editing on indefinitely. ;0)\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-03 18:45:58'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>until one can somehow restrict a forum so only responsible people post,
    it probably makes sense to NOT leave editing on indefinitely. ;0)</em>\r\n\r\nAluminum,
    you make a very good point. If I edit a post I make it a point to add \"[EDIT]\"
    before the amendment, but you're right... I hadn't really thought of that. Some
    of the responses to <a href=\"http://www.designobserver.com/archives/030925.html\">a
    recent Design Observer post by Steve Heller, asking for people to start using
    their real names when commenting</a>, seems to bear this out."
  created: '2008-03-03 19:23:50'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: May I suggest until editing is fixed that you simply post again with your
    corrections and/or retractions? I find reading a thread that has people's posts
    out of order tiresome. For those of you who see a typo if you can catch it right
    away, fine, but if it is late in the game, why bother?
  created: '2008-03-03 19:25:19'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Punchcut had said awhile back that fixing the edit bug was a priority, but
    I guess they are waiting until they do a more substantial upgrade.
  created: '2008-03-03 21:53:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I often edit, for many reasons:\r\n-fix grammar and spelling\r\n-fix bad
    coding of html\r\n-to improve meaning and delete stupidity\r\n-to remove possible
    offence\r\n-to replace image (too wide, or better image available)\r\n-to acknowledge
    crossed posts\r\n\r\nA lot of this is because what we're doing is honest-to-goodness
    typography, which looks different when set in Georgia in the Typophile page layout,
    than Lucida Grande or whatever in the \"Post new comment\" interface.\r\n\r\nA
    \"preview\" of what one's post will look like might be an option."
  created: '2008-03-03 22:20:34'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Let\u2019s edit this feature out\r\n\r\nThe perfect is the enemy of the
    good.\r\n\r\nAnd I'm with Nick. "
  created: '2008-03-03 22:30:57'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Nick - you can preview your posts.
  created: '2008-03-03 22:31:12'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "[Edit]\r\nNick, I second your opinion\r\n\r\n\r\n> you can preview your posts.\r\n\r\nLet\u2019s
    edit this feature out :^) "
  created: '2008-03-03 22:36:31'
- author:
    name: Scalfin
    picture: 114154
  body: "It seems some people here oppose the edit function because it allows the
    rare individual with way to much free time to cause an annoyance.\r\nDoesn't the
    existence of the use of the the edit button to clarify and correct prevent more
    headaches than unidentified jerkwads showing up and editing post which are doubtful
    to be read?\r\n\r\nedit for ninja (anther good use): the preview function is an
    unwieldy annoyance."
  created: '2008-03-03 22:37:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick - you can preview your posts.</em>\r\n\r\nThanks Patty. I have no
    idea why I don't use that, as it's right next to the \"Post comment\" button.\r\nPerhaps
    because \"Preview comment\" is grammatically ambiguous?\r\nI've read it many times,
    but it's never meant anything to me (software interfaces can have that effect).\r\nMaybe
    it's the redundancy of the word \"comment\" that I find offensive?\r\nI'm not
    sure whether I'll use it, though, it's more exciting not to.\r\n\r\nAnd even so,
    the Preview doesn't show one's comment <em>in situ,</em> so it lacks that page-layout
    reality.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-03 23:08:40'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "what's the big deal with editing ? what's the problem ? this really seems
    like a non-issue to me. since when are improvements a problem ? people correct
    themselves in various ways all the time - conversationally and in writing - why
    not here ?\r\nin my way of thinking, it's unrealistc and unfair to be deprived
    of that possibilty.\r\n\r\nmy second thought is usually clearer than my first.
    i don't post to groups without an edit function. i consider it one of the best
    features of typophile !\r\n\r\nyes, it would be great if edits remained in their
    original place in the thread. \r\n\r\non my system the preview option does in
    fact display the true layout and font, which is helpful. i use returns for emphasis
    sometimes, creating shorter lines than the default line break.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-03 23:26:26'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "I'm all for editing. I type at like a kazillion words a minute, and going
    back to check my spelling a few min later is exceedingly helpful. \r\n\r\nOn the
    other forum I frequent, posts that have been edited have a small [edited on xx/xx/xx]
    on them."
  created: '2008-03-04 02:06:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'The subject of this thread says it all: the kind of content editing Luke
    describe is a <em>misuse</em> of the feature. If we got rid of everything that
    could potentially be misused, or even had been misused, there would be little
    of anything left. Heck, we''d have to dump the entire Internet!'
  created: '2008-03-04 03:08:59'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Come on guys, the problem is not with the edit function per se., but its
    implementation here. I'm a moderator on another forum, where if you edit, the
    post stays in its original place, but the line \"<cite>last edited by XXX at [time]</cite>\"
    prints across the bottom of the post.\r\n\r\nI understand it can't be done (yet)
    on Typophile, but the edit function is valuable.\r\n\r\nAlso on my wish list is
    that posts could be displayed in reverse order -- so the first post given is the
    most recent. Nice when there are 50 posts, and you're only interested in the latest
    one."
  created: '2008-03-04 03:41:48'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "right on charles_e - that's the way.\r\ni'm still not clear on what the edit
    dux cited was.\r\noh well, now i'd rather read about typography.\r\nsmiling emoticon."
  created: '2008-03-04 04:25:04'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: "I'm happy to keep the edit feature. I rarely use it, but there is the odd
    occasion when the ol' grey matter has turned like turf and words appear inside
    out. Some kind of evidence of the original post, whether literal or not, needs
    to remain in place if not just 'Edited 3 times' etc.\r\n\r\nA 24hr period seems
    a very workable solution to me, but I take your comment on board John ;-)\r\n\r\nCh:
    the edit in question was from the 'tared apart' thread."
  created: '2008-03-04 13:31:55'
- author:
    name: albriks
  body: As long as its the last comment on a thread you should be able to edit. If
    someone posts after you, then you shouldn't be able to edit in my opinion. That
    seems to work just fine on other boards.
  created: '2008-03-04 13:52:43'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"what\u2019s the big deal with editing ? what\u2019s the problem ? \"\r\n\r\nSee
    my previous post. It's not an issue of editing...but allowing indefinite editing.\r\n\r\nJohn:
    I don't think anyone is saying get rid of the editing feature...rather, just put
    a limit on it...give people x hours/days/weeks to make their edit. (dux's 24 hours
    seems like a fine suggestion). If one can't properly form/edit their thoughts
    in a period of hours or days, then they probably never will. ;0)\r\n\r\nAny 'emergency'
    edits after that fact (which should be few and far between) could then just go
    through the admins.\r\n\r\nThis isn't really that revolutionary of an idea...most
    boards that do allow editing also put the time limit feature in."
  created: '2008-03-04 14:29:03'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "i could live with a 24-hour limit or some sort of edit/date stamping, \r\nbut
    to be cut off after the next post makes no sense. as pointed out above, \r\nsometimes
    the next post is almost instantaneous. out of luck !\r\n\r\ni still don't see
    what the problem is with edits. it's a great feature to be able to rethink a bit,
    just like in real life !  typophile is great all around. if punchcut could just
    fix the edit feature to keep posts in their original place in the thread.\r\n\r\nno
    more posts from me on this topic. smiling emoticon."
  created: '2008-03-04 15:35:11'
- author:
    name: David Sudweeks
    picture: 112594
  body: 'Good edit functions allow a few minutes'' window to correct any mistakes,
    slightly alter tone, etc., but even as good as they are they most likely won''t
    ever be the perfect solution for every user who uses the edit feature. People
    edit for different reasons. Because most edit to correct small mistakes, the system
    should accommodate this use adequately. Some do more; much more. But as has been
    discussed, it''s not realistic to expect the forum to document every move you
    make. I don''t want my discussion muddied up with frequent notes of changes in
    the text. If there are notes that contain potentially important information, (e.g.
    The comment originally read: ...) they should exist hierarchically lower than
    the text. For most edits, the appropriate level for explanatory notation is none,
    invisible.'
  created: '2008-03-04 22:18:51'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABI don\u2019t want my discussion muddied up with frequent notes
    of changes in the text. If there are notes that contain potentially important
    information, (e.g. The comment originally read: ...) they should exist hierarchically
    lower than the text.\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nIf this was in response to the scenario
    I suggested (which works at another forum I frequent), I might have made myself
    unclear. There is only ever one line of \u201CLast edited by XXX at XX:XX PM\u201D
    text, which contains a link that has to be actively clicked. This then brings
    up a pop-up window that contains previous versions of the post, in reverse chronological
    order.\r\n\r\nThis line of text including link is placed (at that forum) below
    the post, i.e., where the \u201CEdit\u201D and \u201CReply\u201D links are as
    it is now under our own posts."
  created: '2008-03-04 23:00:58'
- author:
    name: Textwrapper
    picture: 112864
  body: "I'm for editing, since I often drink and blog.\r\nThe idea for a notice which
    says \"edited\" is good."
  created: '2008-03-05 05:37:19'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: '*this post has been edited for content*'
  created: '2008-03-05 09:50:22'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Hey Mr. textwrap\r\n\r\nhttp://www.goodsamclub.com/\r\n\r\nbut I guess you
    know that."
  created: '2008-03-05 14:10:59'
date: '2008-03-03 12:31:30'
title: Misuse of 'edit' feature

---
