---
author:
  name: JDERO
body: "I am new here and found this site when I was searching for an answer to my
  subject question\r\n\r\nI recently was asked to help with the design of a 100pg,
  10X10, hardcover book. \r\nAll photos and what is going to be the text will be provided.
  I am only providing \r\n\r\n*cover design\r\n*font \r\n*all layout\r\n*find book
  printer\r\n\r\nI am more of a graphics/branding guy so this is new for me. I do
  not want to turn it down because it could help me and the person who asked is a
  friend. This would be funded by a company and they want to make 1000 books.\r\n\r\nIf
  anyone could help I would greatly appreciate it. Ask me questions as well if needed.\r\n\r\nThanks\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: baskervillebold
    picture: 111819
  body: "I would look into the [[http://www.gag.org/pegs/index.php | Graphic Artists
    Guild - Pricing and Ethical Guidlines book]]. I believe there is a section regarding
    book design.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-03 21:59:12'
- author:
    name: JDERO
  body: thank you for that.
  created: '2008-03-03 22:00:58'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: "In November, 2006 I asked that question of Typophile stalwart pattyfab, aka
    book designer Patricia Fabricant, who replied:\r\n\r\nFor an illustrated book
    for a commercial publisher, I usually charge between $40 and $50 per page. That
    includes design, layouts, typesetting plus one round of revised, additional corrections
    at $50/hour. Does not include picture research, scanning, retouching art, or dealing
    with the printer.\r\n\r\nFor a non-profit publisher or university press I\u2019d
    probably charge the lower end of my scale - i.e. about $40/page (with the caveats
    above) for an illustrated book. For a non-illustrated book either around $20-25/page
    all in - plus extra for aa\u2019s.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-04 01:19:26'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>For a non-profit publisher or university press I\u2019d probably charge
    the lower end of my scale - i.e. about $40/page (with the caveats above) for an
    illustrated book. For a non-illustrated book either around $20-25/page all in
    - plus extra for aa\u2019s.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo university press I know of would
    pay that much, esp. for a non-illustrated book. Typical design fees for the interior
    of a university press book with a few illustrations range from $600 to $850 for
    a complicated text. This for a 6-1/8 x 9-1/4 trim, with anywhere from 500,000
    to 1,500,000 characters. \r\n\r\nComposition is around $1.50/M characters, with
    a $0.50 per-page make-up fee. If you're setting a 2,800 character page, that would
    sum to around $4.75-$5.00 per page if the manuscript is supplied editorially correct
    on disk. We get a rather hefty penalty if there are fewer than 400,000 total characters.
    Placing illustrations with caption is around $2.50 each. Improving the usually
    terrible images is rather more. Alterations around $1.35 per occurrence (not line,
    that went out with repro). Paper proof sets extra. \r\n\r\nA rather well-known
    designer (whose book on design is often recommended on Typophile) has a minimum
    of $800 for a text interior -- that's design only, composition would be extra,
    but along the lines of the paragraph above.\r\n\r\nThe jacket is on top of that.\r\n\r\nI
    guess things are far different in the commercial world; I've noticed students
    graduating from design school seem to expect a higher starting salary than I get
    now.\r\n\r\nAn illustrated book can be far different, it depends on what is needed.\r\n\r\nI've
    been doing the composition bidding for my company since 1980. We use more or less
    the prices I've mentioned, and we are considered a little pricey. We only deal
    with university presses; I don't feel comfortable venturing guesses about commercial
    publishing. They do require faster schedules.\r\n\r\nI do know of museum catalogs
    going for $20,000 back in the late 1980s (just design & layout), but you could
    count the number of people who got that kind of work with available fingers &
    toes."
  created: '2008-03-04 02:29:31'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "My fee quoted above includes the cover design.\r\n\r\nI don't do a lot of
    non-illustrated books and those I do are usually for trade publishers, not university
    publishers. I have done art books for university presses (Yale and Princeton)
    and their fees are commensurate with what I quoted above. I do have one publisher
    client who pays a bit less - more like $30/page but their books have very little
    text, they are mostly picture/caption, so once you have the grid and sequence
    it goes very quickly. I do a lot of cookbooks, where the composition is far more
    involved than, say, a novel.\r\n\r\nIt's much more common to use a per word rate
    than per character for text-only books. It can range from 3 to 7 cents a word
    depending on the publisher. I used to do a complicated x per page + y per picture
    + z per word type of formula but life is too short for that.\r\n\r\nI charge a
    fairly hefty fee for dealing with the printer basically because I hate doing that
    and would rather the publisher/client take care of it themselves.\r\n\r\nCharles's
    quotes seem low to me. Even 10 or 15 years ago you could get $5 or more per picture.
    But like I said, I find it easier to establish a page rate all in. Seems to work
    ok for me, as long as there is some flexibility on both ends."
  created: '2008-03-04 05:32:44'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>It\u2019s much more common to use a per word rate than per character
    for text-only books. It can range from 3 to 7 cents a word depending on the publisher.</cite>
    \r\n\r\nAgain, must be a difference between trade publishers and university presses.
    I've bid a lot of jobs, including long-term contracts prepared by the presses,
    and never seen a per-word quote. (We too work with Yale Press; but I'd guess Patty
    works with the Mary M side.)\r\n\r\nThe reason image work costs rather more is
    that you can be asked to spend so much time on each one. If you are given a picture,
    told where to crop it, how big it should be, where to place it, etc., it doesn't
    take much time. That's the $2.50 price -- actually, the $2.50 is just to place
    it with the caption, we also charge a minimum of $5.00 more to deal with as an
    image.\r\n\r\nIf you are given a picture and have to do that work yourself, the
    time can rise sharply. If you are asked to improve the image quality, the time
    can really rise. My partner does the best image work at our shop; and to fix a
    color image takes at least 1 hour, and that's just to correct the color balance
    & enhance detail. Black & white can take 20 minutes each. None of our customers
    will pay the costs of this work, it has to be \"subsidized\" by the text profit.
    & BTW, our shop time is a bit higher than Patty's. When all is said & done, if
    we have to scan the image, prepare it (includes \"image enhancement\") & place
    it, our typical charge is about $15 for B&W continuous tone, and $25 for color.
    That still doesn't quite cover all our costs, the text subsidizes the art. If
    there isn't much text, you (well, we) would have to charge more. But it doesn't
    sound like you are being asked to do that amount of work.\r\n\r\nAnd yes, dealing
    with a printer can be time consuming. Esp. if you do the color management work
    (and you'd better; the number of printers who do a good job of this is quite small).
    You can ask for their numbers, but about half the time what they give you is nonsense.
    Then, if you care, there needs to be a test & you have to work out the numbers
    for them. If it's color job, work to their proof system; they can be expected
    to get their presses to match their proofer -- well, not all can at first, but
    it's a good starting place.\r\n\r\netc.\r\n\r\nEDIT: I'm sorry, one of the reasons
    I got off on this & gave such detail is that it points out there are different
    markets, different pricing structures, different rates, and different schedules.
    When you are starting to work in an area, a book dealing in generalities like
    the one referenced above, can be misleading. It all depends on a particular market.
    \  "
  created: '2008-03-04 13:34:58'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I think the Graphic Artists Guild book mentioned above skews VERY high in
    its suggested fee structures, at least for books. If I insisted on those rates
    I'd have no clients. I only use that book as a hammer with recalcitrant clients
    who try to nickel and dime me.
  created: '2008-03-04 13:38:50'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Let me confirm what charles_e says, but from the other side of the table.
    The press where I am design & production manager is not located at a university,
    but we publish in that realm, and are active in the Association of American University
    Presses. Design fees for trade or scholarly books start a bit lower than the fee
    charged by the well-known designer Charles mentions and go to about that upper
    limit: design fee only, for which I get specifications and a Quark or InDesign
    file upon which the compositor can base its work. Shops I hire for trade or scholarly
    book composition charge pretty much what Charles notes. Most of those shops give
    us a per-page charge and a photo placement charge. Illustrated books are considered
    individually: a 4-c book throughout, with tint bleeds, might get a different fee
    than a duotone book with photos placed on white. & jackets or covers are of course
    additional.\r\n\r\nThe highest fees for museum catalogs I have heard come from
    one of the top-flight Manhattan designers of this sort of book. Six years ago,
    when I was trying to establish a fee for a freelance job, I had no idea what to
    charge. I consulted this pal, who told me a decent fee would be about $20 per
    page, to include design and composition; editorial alts to be extra. Knowing that
    my university press client would not pay that I came in at around $12 / page,
    plus air fare for two trips to the campus to work on photo sequencing and design.
    I felt like I was making huge bucks on that.\r\n\r\nThe only time I see the sort
    of fees Patty cites are when I approach big-dog designers on special projects.
    They tell me the fee they\u2019d charge for a corporate book, and then we negotiate
    down. The prices I get are still pretty stratospheric for my market, but we at
    times pay them for this kind of expertise.\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t pay folks to deal
    with printers. That\u2019s my job, and is dependent in large on relationships
    built over many years, relationships I cannot necessarily count on freelancers
    to have.\r\n\r\npowers\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-04 14:39:44'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Interesting. I'm certainly not a top-flight designer, but generally have
    no problem getting the rates I quoted above, or only slightly less. I have heard
    of designers getting as much as $100/page. And as I said above, my page rate does
    include the jacket.\r\n\r\nCharles - yes, I did work with Mary M.\r\n\r\nOne of
    the reasons I like book design is that there is a structure. There are editors
    for the editing (altho an eagle eye designer is always appreciated) and production
    managers to handle the printing. Schedules are *generally* reasonable. The scope
    of your job is clear, and the fee structure is also transparent. When I do work
    for other types of clients I often find myself having to pick up far more of their
    end than I want to. They don't always understand or appreciate exactly what I
    do. And furthermore they think they own you, that it's ok to call friday evening
    and expect something first thing monday, failing to grasp that you have other
    jobs, other commitments, and perhaps even a life. The art directors, editors and
    production managers I deal with in book publishing generally have the same investment
    in the project that I do - we all want to make the book the best it can be, but
    it isn't our \"baby\". Or, that is, we have a lot of babies and have to find time
    for all of them. Most of the time when I stray outside of book design I end up
    regretting it."
  created: '2008-03-04 15:06:04'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I just picked my copy of the Graphic Artists Guild book - it is so old (1997)
    that it discusses cutting up galleys and distinguishes between the "dummy" and
    the "mechanicals". Back in those days they estimated $8-25 per page for dummy;
    $15-40 for mechanicals, exclusive of jacket or design. Since these two processes
    have now folded into one, I'd be curious to see what this book recommends as a
    per page rate for illustrated books.
  created: '2008-03-04 16:32:55'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Will,\r\n\r\nI'd point out one large difference; Patty is including the jacket
    with the charge for the interior. A jacket design would add at least another $800
    to the book. The two are usually separate in university press publishing -- for
    example, I'll design an interior, but will not touch a jacket. There are people
    who will do both, but there are also people who prefer to do just jackets, or
    occasionally, like me, just interiors.\r\n\r\nIf you sum the costs, say $800 for
    the jacket, $700 for the interior design, and $2,500 for comp, thats $4,000. If
    it is a 250-page book, that's $16 a page. That would cover about 20 images, text
    size B&W. That is a little less than what Patty's talking about, but I imagine
    the art books she deals with have rather more image requirements.\r\n\r\nAh well,
    back to taking apart & re-doing Arno. It would add 4-6 hours for every job if
    I don't re-kern & re-write the features. With Arno, it'll take a week, but after
    the first 10 books, we'll be money ahead.   \r\n\r\nCharles\r\n\r\nEdit:\r\n\r\nWill,
    good duotone work costs more than 4-c work. At least from us. Note I said \"good.\""
  created: '2008-03-04 17:06:50'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "The jacket is inseparable from the design of the book's interior in my line
    of work. I realize that's not the case in other types of publishing. I found that
    it was easier to get a publisher to wrap their mind around a flat per page rate
    all in (and much less work for me) than if I broke it down too far. I can do that
    if they ask to but they don't. And it would come out more or less the same.\r\n\r\nJackets
    can command more like $1500 from trade publishers. More if you are doing custom
    work - photoshop, commissioning illustration, hand lettering, etc.\r\n\r\nAnd
    yes, I work on books that often have images on every page, or several. Each page/spread
    requires individual attention.\r\n\r\nCharles - are you working in Quark or InDesign?
    As I am sure you know, Quark lets you save your kerning tables for other jobs."
  created: '2008-03-04 17:17:20'
- author:
    name: JDERO
  body: "WOW, thanks for all of that!\r\n\r\nI will take this all in and see what
    I come up with.\r\nI was shooting for $30 per page. \r\n\r\nI have never done
    this but am comfortable with layout and dealing with the printers and all of that.
    The photographer and creator of this book idea has provided me with alot of references
    and design ideas but these are only suggestions and I shouldn't take anything
    off the end price just because if that, right?\r\n\r\nIs that standard? To receive
    a guideline for the design, or references of how they want the final product to
    generally look like?\r\n\r\nAnyway, I appreciate your responses and I will check
    back later.\r\nThank you\r\n\r\nJustin"
  created: '2008-03-04 17:47:10'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>Is that standard? To receive a guideline for the design, or references
    of how they want the final product to generally look like?</cite>\r\n\r\nIn my
    experience this is neither standard nor unusual. It can be very helpful, especially
    if this is your first illustrated book design. You should definitely not lower
    your price just because they have given you some ideas to work with. "
  created: '2008-03-04 18:01:29'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Charles - are you working in Quark or InDesign? As I am sure you know,
    Quark lets you save your kerning tables for other jobs.</cite>\r\n\r\nWe now work
    in InDesign. Before 2007, we worked with our implementation of TeX, which let
    us have almost all the features of OpenType. The problem was dealing with color
    management, and it was almost unsurmountable. Too, both Larry Tseng & I are getting
    on, as they say. Using TeX made us dependent on Larry, and our database fonts
    made us dependent on me.\r\n\r\nWe now use only OpenType fonts. I have never gotten
    a font from a foundry I considered adequate for our work, at least not <cite>economically</cite>
    adequate. But I've said this before, just rehashing old news. Arno needs work
    with the punctuation, and the superscripts for note calls. Too, I have never liked
    Adobe's too-tight kerning. IMSLTHO, Arno needs other touches, like separate arithmetic
    operators (plus, minus, multiply, etc.) for lining versus old-style numbers. What
    comes with the font is a compromise in size & height, not right for either figure
    style. Etc."
  created: '2008-03-04 18:54:48'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: ">> I\u2019d point out one large difference\r\nIt\u2019s all a matter of how
    you parse it, Charles. There\u2019s really no difference. We just calculate our
    costs differently. I don\u2019t bring design & composition costs for a jacket
    or cover into calculations of per-page costs for text design & comp. That\u2019s
    all.\r\n\r\n\r\n>> The jacket is inseparable from the design of the book\u2019s
    interior in my line of work.\r\nI entirely agree with that, and that is the way
    most of our books are treated. Again, I was relating some accounting practices.\r\n\r\n\r\n>>
    good duotone work costs more than 4-c work\r\nI was only relating design costs
    as I have experienced them, Charles, not the work it takes to make duotones print
    well. Designers I work with will often give us a lower rate if they are doing
    a design that is only two colors, and does not involve a range of page tints and
    type colors. It does not mean that design of duotone books is not quite complex
    and even difficult; it just reflects what I\u2019ve been charged. That\u2019s
    all.\r\n\r\n\r\n>> I\u2019m certainly not a top-flight designer\r\nI\u2019m not
    sure that\u2019s true, Patty. I just looked at your www site. You get a lot of
    good work, work a lot of book designers would like to do, if only they had the
    skills to master those kinds of design. (I speak from very close personal experience
    here.)\r\n\r\nI also am very happy that I\u2019ve restricted my work to book design.
    I have done other sorts of graphic design work (ad agency type director), and
    none gives me the satisfaction book work does.\r\n\r\nAnd many others feel the
    same way. There is no dearth of designers who want to concentrate on book work,
    despite its lower wages. & some are very good. I have just recently met with several
    recent design school grads who wish to eschew the allure of flash and color and
    work with books. At times I have hired some, and gotten good work, but work that
    comes only with a good deal of mentoring.\r\n\r\nJustin: good luck with this project;
    have fun.\r\n\r\npowers\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-04 18:55:12'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>I have just recently met with several recent design school grads who
    wish to eschew the allure of flash and color and work with books.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd
    I not too long ago put a roomful of design students to sleep telling them about
    the glories of book design. Maybe I'm just a lousy teacher... and in truth one
    girl did come up to me afterwards to ask me for help getting her foot in the door."
  created: '2008-03-04 20:23:57'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Patty,\r\n\r\nLook for the ones that don't wear black. There may be some
    hope for them.\r\n\r\nI believe Rich Hendel, Jill Shimabukuro, and Amy-Ruth Buchannan
    are going to teach a design seminar in North Carolina later this summer. Told
    Rich the thing to impress on them is that it takes great skill to tart things
    up without doing harm. If they're young, they seem to have to be *very graphic*;
    the trick with books is learning how to get through that period without damaging
    everything you touch. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-04 21:18:20'
- author:
    name: typehunter
    picture: 111683
  body: "This is a great thread.  My background is mostly in magazine design, but
    since I started my own business 6 years ago. I have started to do more book projects.
    \ Of all the work i do, it is the most interesting, but least lucritive part of
    my business.  The company I do most of my book work for produces some pretty nice,
    high-end, design, art & architecure books.  But they have a take-it-or-leave-it
    price policy, that doesn't make any adjustments for complexity of the book that
    goes like this: $1000 for the cover; $800 for the dummy design that can include
    8-10 spreads; and then $20 per page for production (and there are at least 2-3
    rounds of edits that are included in that).  The rates haven't changed in at least
    6 years. On some with little text, and large photos (they take care of all prepress
    and production) this doesn't work out TOO bad, but on others, they get so complex,
    and someetimes they have so many changes, that I end up making nothing. They will
    almost never pay more for extra work or complexity. Hence, i don't do that many
    projects for them any more, even though i would like to.\r\n\r\nAlll my other
    projects, i quote a rate.\r\n\r\nSince I do like doing books, I plan to actively
    look for new book projects this year. I really would like to have a better idea
    what other publishers pay.  Will have to do some math on Patty's numbers, because
    while it seems a lot lower that these guys pay, since it sounds like the cover
    and initial design stage are included in the page rate, maybe it's not quite as
    bad.\r\n\r\nPatty, your work l;ooks great, by the way."
  created: '2008-03-05 05:21:01'
- author:
    name: typehunter
    picture: 111683
  body: "This is a great thread.  My background is mostly in magazine design, but
    since I started my own business 6 years ago. I have started to do more book projects.
    \ Of all the work i do, it is the most interesting, but least lucritive part of
    my business.  The company I do most of my book work for produces some pretty nice,
    high-end, design, art & architecure books.  But they have a take-it-or-leave-it
    price policy, that doesn't make any adjustments for complexity of the book that
    goes like this: $1000 for the cover; $800 for the dummy design that can include
    8-10 spreads; and then $20 per page for production (and there are at least 2-3
    rounds of edits that are included in that).  The rates haven't changed in at least
    6 years. On some with little text, and large photos (they take care of all prepress
    and production) this doesn't work out TOO bad, but on others, they get so complex,
    and someetimes they have so many changes, that I end up making nothing. They will
    almost never pay more for extra work or complexity. Hence, i don't do that many
    projects for them any more, even though i would like to.\r\n\r\nAlll my other
    projects, i quote a rate.\r\n\r\nSince I do like doing books, I plan to actively
    look for new book projects this year. I really would like to have a better idea
    what other publishers pay.  Will have to do some math on Patty's numbers, because
    while it seems a lot lower that these guys pay, since it sounds like the cover
    and initial design stage are included in the page rate, maybe it's not quite as
    bad.\r\n\r\nPatty, your work looks great, by the way."
  created: '2008-03-05 05:21:09'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Thanks. I think some of the high end art/architecture/design book publishers
    get away with a lower rate because they know everyone wants to do their books.
    Phaidon for example is notorious for low pay. But they don't use American designers
    anyway. And they don't care if you can actually READ their books.
  created: '2008-03-05 15:20:40'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "And on an alternate note, I've seen book designs pay twice the rate Patty
    mentions. However, the services can extend far beyond typesetting, and could even
    include multi-month stays at an artist\u2019s studio to sort out and arrange photography
    for new works created specifically for a show or publication. Add to that the
    changes associated with donors and availability of works and you have a much different
    sort of project."
  created: '2008-03-05 15:45:41'
- author:
    name: alight2
    picture: 115149
  body: "This thread is great!\r\n\r\nI have about 31 years of graphic design background
    in the corporate, publishing, everything world and have just recently shifted
    my focus to designing memoirs and books on spirituality, art and poetry.\r\n\r\nPatty,
    I used your pricing methods on a memoir I completed over the summer, but that
    was for a pretty high end client.\r\n\r\nI am working now mostly for individuals
    from the private sector. Not companies. I'm unclear as to what to charge these
    folks.\r\n\r\nI looked at your site, Patty. I think your work is gorgeous. \r\n\r\nAny
    thoughts from anyone on pricing for this market?\r\n\r\nThanks."
  created: '2008-10-09 19:28:44'
- author:
    name: LisaJacksonDesign
  body: My guess is $3,000 if they want rights for the entire U.S.A. for just a run
    of 1,000. If they want another run, charge more. Why do I have to guess? Because
    I've not done it yet! Pay more attention to the answers of the people who've actually
    done it a few times. They know how much work is in it!
  created: '2008-10-14 18:38:48'
date: '2008-03-03 20:59:46'
title: What Do I Charge for Book Design?

---
