---
author:
  name: Eluard
  picture: 114004
body: "here is a warning message thrown us by FontForge on opening up Adobe Jenson
  Light:\r\n\r\n\"Warning: Mac and Windows entries in the 'name' table differ for
  the\r\n  Fullname string in the language English (US)\r\n  Mac String: Adobe Jenson
  Pro Light\r\n  Windows String: AJensonPro-Lt\r\nThe 'size' feature of this font
  conforms to Adobe's early misinterpretation of the otf standard\"\r\n\r\nI also
  noticed that the old style numbers are labelled as \"zerooldstyle\", not \"zero.oldstyle\",
  etc. Does this create any problems?\r\n\r\nAgain, I'm wondering if there are things
  wrong here that I need to try to correct.\r\n\r\nthanks \r\n\r\nEl.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "name - Naming Table\r\n\r\n'Full font name; this should be a combination
    of strings 1 and 2. Exception: if the font is \"Regular\" as indicated in string
    2, then use only the family name contained in string 1.\r\nAn exception to the
    above definition of Full font name is for Microsoft platform strings for CFF OpenType
    fonts: in this case, the Full font name string must be identical to the PostScript
    FontName in the CFF Name INDEX.'"
  created: '2008-03-06 09:54:23'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>here is a warning message thrown us by FontForge</cite>\r\n\r\nTranslating
    Mr Blokland's quote from the specs: In CFF-OT fonts, name ID4/Win, ID6/Win, ID6/Mac
    and CFF-Name-INDEX should be identical. This <em>implies</em> that if ID4/Mac
    is supposed to be nice and readable, then ID4/Mac and ID4/Win need to differ.
    Nothing to worry about. Looks like a unnecessary warning.\r\n[ID4 = Full Name,
    ID6 = PS Font Name]\r\n\r\n<cite>I also noticed that the old style numbers are
    labelled as \u201Czerooldstyle\u201D, not \u201Czero.oldstyle\u201D, etc. Does
    this create any problems?</cite>\r\n\r\nAny problems with Adobe fonts so far?&nbsp;&nbsp;:)\r\nIn
    your own fonts however you should follow Adobe's naming recommendations."
  created: '2008-03-06 14:12:51'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>Again, I\u2019m wondering if there are things wrong here that I need
    to try to correct.</em>\r\n\r\nWhy would you need to correct it? "
  created: '2008-03-06 14:31:46'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "<em>Why would you need to correct it?</em>\r\n\r\nJust in case it fails in
    some circumstance, for some program, that is especially fussy about how the glyphs
    are named. No one wants to be surprised by these kinds of failures."
  created: '2008-03-06 23:44:24'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: Thanks for the clarification, guys. I should add that I am using XeLaTeX with
    a Fontspec interface to the fonts and it is not always clear what will work with
    what opentype hooks. Thanks again.
  created: '2008-03-06 23:50:05'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "1. The warning in FontForge is wrong, the name table entries are correct.
    \r\n\r\n2. You might consider upgrading to version 2.0 of Adobe Jenson Pro which
    has the glyph names and the size feature corrected. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-07 04:18:06'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Thanks Adam \u2014 I bought this one (licensed it) years ago \u2014 I'll
    have to enquire how much they'd charge to upgrade it.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-07 05:42:36'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>This implies that if ID4/Mac is supposed to be nice and readable, then
    ID4/Mac and ID4/Win need to differ.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn order to better understand
    font naming in otf fonts, I \"scrupulously\"  applied <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/15485#comment-193430\"><strong>Miguel
    Sousa's recipe</strong></a> with  <a href=\"http://www.adobe.com/devnet/opentype/afdko/\"><strong>ADFKO</strong></a>'s
    \ <code><strong>MakeOTF</strong></code> command on the (\"scrupulously\"  modified)
    Minion Pro Caption example Adobe provides. More precisely, I replaced  a few lines
    in the file <code><strong>fontmenunamedb</strong><code> by\r\n\r\n<code><strong>[MinionPro-Capt]\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;f=Familyname\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;s=StyleName\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;c=WinMenuName\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;c=1,MacMenuName\r\n</strong></code>\r\n\r\n(yes,
    literally) and then ran <code><strong>makeotf</strong></code>. I then applied
    <code><strong>ttx</strong><code> to the resulting otf font\r\n\r\n<code><strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;ttx
    -t name MinionPro-Capt.otf</strong></code>\r\n\r\nand, looking only at the namerecords
    for the Macintosh in the resulting file <code><strong>MinionPro-Capt.ttx</strong></code>,
    I saw this\r\n\r\n<code><strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;nameID=\"1\"&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Familyname&nbsp;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;nameID=\"2\"&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;StyleName&nbsp;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;nameID=\"4\"&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Familyname&nbsp;StyleName&nbsp;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;nameID=\"6\"&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;MinionPro-Capt&nbsp;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;nameID=\"18\"&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;MacMenuName&nbsp;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;nameID=\"256\"&nbsp;&nbsp;Regular&nbsp;\r\n</strong></code>\r\n</body></html>\r\nI
    then confidently :) installed the above <code><strong>MinionPro-Capt.otf</strong></code>
    font with <code><strong>FontInst</strong></code>. I am running OSX 10.4.11 on
    a PowerPC. For Word and Excel (Office 2004) the font is <code><strong>MacMenuName
    Normal</strong><code> as we can see here (with Word): \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/names30_6343.gif]\r\nFor
    <code><strong>textedit</strong></code>, <code><strong>XeTeX</strong></code> and
    even <code><strong>TeXShop</strong></code> (which is absolutely not opentype savvy,
    I can't even select a single word and make it bold), the font is of Family \"Familyname\"
    and Typeface \"StyleName\" as we can see here (with textedit):\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/names31_4018.gif]\r\nI
    have failed to find a situation where <code><strong>ID4/Mac</strong></code>, namely
    the string <code><strong>\"Familyname StyleName\"</strong></code>, is used. Where
    is it ever needed to be \"nice and readable\".\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-12 02:59:58'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>I have failed to find a situation where ID4/Mac, namely the string
    'Familyname StyleName', is used. Where is it ever needed to be \"nice and readable\".</cite>\r\n\r\nAbsolutely
    true.\r\nIf ID18/Mac <em>is present</em> in the name table, then application that
    I've tested will not show ID4/Mac nor identify a font by way of it. Exactly this
    is why -- <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/17059#comment-251081\" target=\"_blank\">in
    another thread</a> -- I wondered if we couldn't forget about ID18/Mac and abbreviate
    name ID4/Mac right away; the effect might be the same.\r\nIf however ID18/Mac
    is <em>not present</em> in the name table, then ID4/Mac will be shown. You will
    have noticed that the MakeOTF manual, p.6, also says that 'c1=' (ID18/Mac) needs
    to be provided as soon as a 'c=' (ID1/Win) was defined (to divide a larger family
    into a bunch of Windows-compatible 4-style families); this means: in some cases
    <em>no</em> ID18/Mac is, nor needs to be, present in the name table."
  created: '2008-03-12 09:30:27'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: 'Even Adobe Brush Script Std which comes in just one weight defines ID1/Win
    and thus ID18/Mac (at least OTF Version 1.020). Would it not be a good standard
    to always provide ID1/Win, ID18/Mac, and let ID4/Mac identical to ID4/Win? '
  created: '2008-03-12 13:16:13'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "ID1/Win is always present in the name table. It is ID16/Win which will be
    added only if it differs from ID1/Win. (If you do not provide the compatible windows
    name in AFDKO, then the family name will go into ID1/Win rather than ID16/Win.)\r\n\r\nActually,
    to some degree assigning font names is also a matter of taste. What you suggest
    doesn't look wrong, and there are fonts out there where ID4 is identical for Mac
    and Win. In general I would suggest to stick as close to common naming practices
    as possible, for the simple reason that they have proven to work."
  created: '2008-03-12 14:56:06'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>If ID18/Mac is present in the name table, then application that I\u2019ve
    tested will not show ID4/Mac nor identify a font by way of it. </cite>\r\n\r\nI
    just tested more with XeTeX; I replaced ID4/Mac above with \"familyname StyleName\"
    (font selection is case sensitive) and managed to select the font with either
    \"Familyname\" or \"familyname StyleName\";  both ID1/Mac and ID4/Mac can be used
    to identify the above font in XeTeX.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-12 22:27:40'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Hi Michel \u2014 slightly off topic, but since you are here and you replied
    to me on the Font Forge list about the curled quotes in XeLaTeX, the situation
    is this: the main call of a font using fontspec produces, for the font that is
    called, the correct curled quotes. But suppose later in the preamble you call
    another face from a different font with `\\newfontface\\blah\u2026' that font
    will not have the quote marks curled correctly because this call does not apply
    the default language to this font. So lacking knowledge of the correct language
    it will leave the quotes as straight apostrophe quotes. Obviously there should
    be a way to tell the second font that is called what language it should be in:
    or if there is such a way, I haven't found it.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-13 09:26:11'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Even more off-topic, but I am curious:\r\n\r\nYou write -- <cite>I just tested
    more with XeTeX; ... and managed to select the font with either \"Familyname\"
    or \"familyname StyleName\"; both ID1/Mac and ID4/Mac can be used to identify
    the above font in XeTeX.</cite>\r\n\r\nSince I never used TeX -- how exactly did
    you select fonts in TeX syntax? I am asking because ID1 alone may not be sufficient
    to identify a font since all styles of the same family share the same string in
    name ID1.\r\n\r\nWould you mind extending your test a bit? You could add \"Win\"
    to all Windows platform names, and \"Mac\" to all Mac platform names. (It's most
    reliable to do this adjustment in TTX: names with platform ID3 are Windows, and
    with platform ID1 are Mac. But do not change ID6.) And then again try selecting
    fonts in XeTeX with name ID1 or ID4, once with the Mac platform strings, once
    with the Windows platform strings.\r\nI suspect that TeX, like most other applications,
    actually uses the Windows platform name records rather than Mac platform name
    records, so that the latter is not relevant at least for TeX."
  created: '2008-03-13 11:22:23'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: " [...] <cite> the main call of a font using fontspec produces, for the font
    that is called, the correct curled quotes.</cite>\r\n\r\nHow do you do that? What
    feature are you using? "
  created: '2008-03-13 16:06:29'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: <strong>Question.</strong> Prove that if the <strong><em>n</em></strong> last
    posts are yours and if nobody posts in the meantime, you can  always edit those
    <strong><em>n</em></strong> posts and restore them to their original order :)
  created: '2008-03-13 17:01:13'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>I suspect that TeX, like most other applications, actually uses the
    Windows platform name records rather than Mac platform name records, so that the
    latter is not relevant at least for TeX.</cite>\r\n\r\nHere are the values I gave
    to various IDs and yes means that XeTeX selected the font; \r\n\r\n<code><strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ID1/Mac&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Familyname&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;yes\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ID4/Mac&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;familyname&nbsp;StyleName&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;yes\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ID6&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;MinionPro-Capt&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;yes\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ID1/Win&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;WinMenuName&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;no\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ID4/Win&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;MinionPro-Capt&nbsp;Win&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;yes\r\n</strong></code>\r\n\r\nFor
    instance the input file containing the three lines\r\n\r\n<code><strong>\\font\\test=\"MinionPro-Capt
    Win\" at 48pt\r\n \\test Minion Pro Caption\r\n\\bye\r\n\r\n</strong></code>\r\n\r\ngave
    me the expected pdf output, namely \"Minion Pro Caption\" in 48 points.\r\n\r\nPS.
    This post has been edited (you can also see that from its comment number in the
    html file of this thread).\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-13 17:50:49'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Word and textedit had their picture; to do justice, here is the one with
    TeXShop:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/xetextest_5642.jpg]"
  created: '2008-03-13 21:21:21'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: :)
  created: '2008-03-13 21:44:48'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Michel asked: <em>How do you do that? What feature are you using?</em>\r\n\r\n\r\n\\setromanfont[Mapping=tex-text,Numbers=OldStyle,Ligatures={Common,Rare}]{BemboBookMTPro-Regular}\r\n\\setsansfont[Mapping=tex-text]{Futura}\r\n\\setmonofont{Monaco}\r\n\r\n\r\n\u2026And
    of course for all these the quote marks are curled correctly.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-14 22:36:37'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>Mapping=tex-text</cite>\r\n\r\nThanks! That's great for using the same
    input files for pdflatex and xelatex. Maybe I was lucky but it seems to me that
    it is enough to add <code>Mapping=tex-text</code> in the call to <code>\\newfontface</code>.
    And now, what requires more work is getting straight quotes. Do you know of any
    better solution than what follows?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/textext_6566.jpg]\r\n\r\nPS.
    Edited."
  created: '2008-03-15 01:32:42'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Yup, Mapping=tex-text does the trick!  :)  *Slaps forehead!*\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    think that probably is the best way to get the straight quotes.\r\n\r\nAnd goddammit,
    I didn't say \"Michel AKSED\". :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-15 10:28:47'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>And goddammit, I didn\u2019t say \u201CMichel AKSED\u201D. </cite>\r\n\r\nI
    removed \"Check spelling as you type\" in TeXShop to get screen shots without
    red underlines and was not careful enough; with those nice spell checkers, we
    get less attentive, I am afraid. I swap letters much too often. I did it with
    AFDKO too, above.  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <code><strong>s/aksed/asked/</strong></code>
    and <code><strong>s/ADFKO/AFDKO/</strong></code>"
  created: '2008-03-15 12:19:36'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: There is now a generation of Australians who mispronounce 'asked' as 'aksed'.
    I thought you were making a wry comment upon them. :) But no worries, as we are
    also wont to say!
  created: '2008-03-15 12:50:42'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: According to <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Futurama">Futurama</a>,
    everyone pronounces it "aks" by the year 3000.
  created: '2008-03-15 14:42:58'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "<em>According to Futurama, everyone pronounces it \u201Caks\u201D by the
    year 3000.</em>\r\n\r\nSomething to look forward to then. :("
  created: '2008-03-15 22:15:02'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I just heard a man give a talk where he pronounced the word 'facts' as 'fak'.
    Noticeable, but not the end of the world. Now if it were in Australia, it might
    literally have been at the 'end of the world,' so I might have gotten worried.\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, why would anyone use TeX? I understand that it is great for setting math
    text, but why for general usage? What benefits are there over either a commercial
    product or non-commercial such as Scribus?\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-16 19:09:28'
- author:
    name: Scott Thatcher
    picture: 111324
  body: "I use TeX in my professional work as a Mathematician, but in my amateur roll
    as editor of a church newsletter, I've used every free-software program on Linux
    that's remotely suitable, including Scribus, OpenOffice, KWord, etc. I've put
    at least a couple months into using so that I can get the hang of how it works,
    and I've finally settled on TeX for this newsletter as well.  Since I've already
    gotten over the somewhat steep learning curve of TeX, I find the increased efficiency
    of doing all formatting from a text file where I never have to remove my fingers
    from the keyboard to be the best part about using TeX.  I like being able to type
    \\begin{twocolarticle}... \\end{twocolarticle} (after defining this environment)
    and knowing that the text will be formatted correctly. Of course, styles in more
    visually-oriented programs do the same kind of thing, but I've realized that what
    really makes the difference for me is not having to use the mouse.\r\n\r\nIn projects
    such as a multiple-chapter church history, I like the relatively easy generation
    of structure: chapters, table of contents, footnotes, index, cross-references
    etc.  I'm sure there are professional products that do this kind of thing, but
    the tools available in OpenOffice or Microsoft Word are just so much harder to
    use (in my opinion).\r\n\r\nFinally, when I did a church photo directory, I liked
    the fact that it was easy to use a database to automatically generate the TeX
    code for each entry.\r\n\r\nHope this helps.\r\n\r\nst"
  created: '2008-03-16 20:03:31'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "I also use LaTeX for typesetting mathematics. One great asset of LaTeX is
    the packages that people have contributed to it. If you need to write a multilingual
    text and hyphenate each language correctly, the babel package gives you simple
    macros you can call to do it. LaTeX is great when it (edit: i.e. the text to typeset)
    gets technical but sometimes even then I wonder: for instance, there is a package
    called <a href=\"http://www.ctan.org/tex-archive/macros/latex/contrib/ledmac/\"
    target=\"_blank\">ledmac</a> (see also <a href=\"http://www.djdekker.net/ledmac/\"
    target=\"_blank\">http://www.djdekker.net/ledmac/</a>) for typesetting critical
    editions. Here is grab from an output using the sample file villon.tex; I used
    XeLaTeX with Adobe Garamond Pro and a custom single substitution to get Q.alt
    instead of Q (and threequartersemdash instead of emdash). \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/xevillon_3836.jpg]\r\nWhen
    I look at some of the .tex source examples, I wonder if there is no other tool
    able to handle footnotes and margin notes that would make life easier, but I confess
    I know nothing of critical editions.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-16 23:13:04'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "For some mysterious reason, last night I browsed other sites and saw that
    my quotes for feet and inches above were not right; they should have been U+2032
    and U+2033. I can't get them with XeLaTeX. So, back to the old days with LaTeX,
    taking advantage of the math font (support for math fonts still seems incomplete
    in XeTeX).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tall_5305.jpg]"
  created: '2008-04-02 20:48:46'
date: '2008-03-06 03:33:29'
node_type: forum
title: Weird Adobe Jenson Warning

---
