---
author:
  name: heymendoza
body: Designing a series of Jazz book covers. They will have line art illustrations
  that reflect the bebop Jazz era. The three books will cover Charlie Parker, Miles
  Davis, and Dizzy Gillespie. I wanted to bring a little influence of the jazz records
  but since it is a 3 book series I need to bring them together with 1 or 2 typeface.
  One typeface for the headline or name of the Jazz player and the second typeface
  for the standard name of the book series that will be placed on all three books
  (author name, series name, publisher, etc). Any suggestions on typefaces and combination
  would help out. I'm out of ideas.
comments:
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I always think Clarendon is pretty jazz-y. A simple condensed sans a la Akzidenz
    or Trade Gothic would work too. They also do a lot with blocks of color: blue,
    orange, red.\r\n\r\nYou might look here for inspiration too. There are hundreds
    of samples:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.pixagogo.com/7180565202\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-06 20:43:52'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Maybe... http://www.myfonts.com/person/harvey/michael/
  created: '2008-03-06 20:45:43'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I like Franklin Gothic mixed with News Gothic. Take a good look at the Blue
    Note album covers. Definitive jazz graphics.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-03-06 20:48:08'
- author:
    name: baskervillebold
    picture: 111819
  body: How about [[http://www.p22.com/products/daddyo.html | P22 - Daddy-O.]] I've
    seen a few vintage jazz covers with a similar typeface.
  created: '2008-03-06 20:48:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I agree with Paul about the authenticity of bold condensed sans (grot or
    square--pre Univers/Helevetica), but that might be a bit too clean and structured
    for the social memory of improvised jazz. So perhaps a little looseness/distress
    might work, e.g. my <a href=\"http://www.shinntype.com/brown.html\">Brown,</a>
    say Extra Bold Condensed, and paired with a gestural cursive script (Mistral comes
    to mind) to really capture the free flow.\r\n\r\nThe line illustrations sounds
    like a nice idea.\r\n\r\nIMO, Daddy-O is a bit crazy and lacks gravitas, those
    were serious dudes and very laid back. I never got to see Bird play, but I love
    on the youtube videos it's like he's so cool he's completely motionless, and yet
    there's this amazing stream of melody.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-06 21:34:01'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I saw Miles during the electric phase - I believe the album was \"Bitches
    Brew\". He was definitely not an entertainer, but he could blow. He could also
    smoke - I saw him take a drag on a cigarette that was probably half of it - blew
    out an enormous cloud and then continued playing.\r\n\r\nI don't think anything
    defines that period graphically better than Blue Note. Really moody design in
    muted blues and purples, occasional splashes of color, progressive typography
    using the tools of the day, and very interesting photo treatments. Love it.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-03-07 02:13:58'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "I could picture the Beorcana italic on the cover of a book about Jazz. It
    looks be-boppy to me.\r\n: )\r\n\r\n(Coming from someone who missed out on a good
    part of Rock history he lived through because jazz was everything at the time)"
  created: '2008-03-07 03:24:14'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "If you take a look at the most influential graphic works on jazz - blue note
    records covers by reid miles - you'll understand that the standard he created
    uses a quite limited amount of typefaces, which you can use today without fear
    of schocking. these \"helvetica of jazz types\" would be clarendon, franklin gothic
    / news gothic / akzidenz condensed. now of course nothing holds you from using
    something else and create your own mood about it, but if i had a go on a project
    like this, i would definitely (at least) use a clarendon-like among my choices,
    and it would actually most probably be clarendon itself.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-03-07 07:52:42'
- author:
    name: JVB
    picture: 128511
  body: "I create a logo for a Jazz restaurant few weeks ago!\r\nI combined two fonts
    from the same type designer \u2013 Eric Gill!\r\nJoanna was used for the logotype
    and Gill Sans for other stuff (ads...)\r\n\r\n \r\nXO\r\nJ itsa JOTAOITENTA&CINCO"
  created: '2008-03-07 09:50:03'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "But what about the other side of Jazz? Sure Blue Note is absolutely \u2014
    no argument here \u2014 the stereotypical essence of Jazz. But what about labels
    like <a href=\"http://www.ecmrecords.com/Startseite/startseite.php\">ECM</a> (
    b. 1969) ? Their album covers, especially the earlier stuff, were a study in controlled
    cool. \r\n\r\n(Don't get me wrong, I love Blue Note's album covers, how they embody
    the music, but they aren't the only Jazz music label which has great album covers.)"
  created: '2008-03-07 18:07:07'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "ECM represents a completely different era of jazz than he's talking about.
    As much as I like some of the covers (and some of the early records were actually
    pretty good until they collapsed into new age jazz) I don't think that's the vibe.\r\n\r\nOne
    of the big problems with ECM records is that they engineered the life out of jazz.
    While stunning from a recording engineer perspective (and that is one I have)
    the pristine recordings are rather lifeless in retrospect, at least for me.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-03-07 18:34:40'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "The artists mentioned are bop into cool though. I cut my teeth on the ECM
    releases and still love Ralph Towner. Even John Abercrombie makes the edge fuzzy
    having made <cite>In a Silent Way</cite> such a great recording before making
    his name on ECM.\r\n\r\nLook at Riverside as well as Blue Note, and think about
    the production techniques that made that design style so solid.\r\n\r\nHere's
    something to look at:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/58675_3603.jpg]\r\n\r\nAlso
    look at the Herbie Nichols complete box. It has three discs \"in the style of\",
    each with a slightly different flavor.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.artistdirect.com/nad/store/artist/album/0,,138991,00.html\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-07 19:05:57'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I am not saying that jazz hasn't been very well engineered for many years
    - the Miles / Gil Evans collaborations come to mind. But there is a sheeniness
    that most of the ECM recordings have that doesn't stand the test of time for me.
    I loved it when I first heard it, that's when I was a record producer and engineer
    and that was definitely a leap forward, especially the cymbals, which had a sparkle
    that I hadn't heard before. I will assume (although I could be very wrong) that
    some of those first engineers for ECM had cut their teeth on classical music,
    perhaps at  Deutsche Gramophone, since classical music was the laboratory for
    recording acoustic instruments and DG LPs were the gold standard.\r\nIt was a
    quantum leap in separation of sound, really amazing acoustic engineering, but
    for me the cleanness is antithetical to what I love about jazz.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-03-07 20:49:35'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "My musical taste at 16 was suspect, but it still is now for that matter.
    \ That\u2019s about the age I started buying ECM records. Later I got to the root
    of it. I did have a sweet little vertical linear tracking table at that age. I
    think it shaped my musical tastes a bit by virtue of making well recorded music
    sound good.\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve still got a copy of Timeless (a lovely package design)
    that will always be cherished for its title track."
  created: '2008-03-07 21:09:36'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Musical taste is never suspect since it is completely subjective. As far
    as I'm concerned the opinion of a 12 year old that likes Hannah Montana/Miley
    Cyrus is just as valid as Leonard Feather's. I would definitely rather read his
    writing though. -:)\r\n\r\nThe fact that you're a music fan is wonderful. I am
    not per se, because once I started playing instead of practicing I was interested
    in my own music too much to be a fan anymore. \r\n\r\nThere's music I like but
    I am not passionate about it and I rarely listen.\r\n\r\nOne of my criteria for
    judging music is whether I think that the artist wants to be a star or not. So
    I don't listen to popular music or radio. I have a large collection of gypsy music
    from around the world and I like it both musically and theoretically because in
    these societies musicians are no more important than bread bakers, which is how
    it should be in my opinion. I also like the fact that the gypsies are another
    class of scorned people, who have always had the best music because that's one
    of the only things that couldn't be taken from them.\r\n\r\nMy last musical \"hero\"
    was Fred Frith, who I think is still one of the finest instrumentalists in the
    improvisational world.\r\n\r\nMy collection ranges from Mauricio Kagel to Romica
    Puceanu, the gypsy siren of Romania. I have more CDs of sound effects than anything
    else.\r\n\r\nMy favorite series of covers are for Faust.\r\n\r\nSo it's a complicated
    mix\u2026\r\n\r\npbc\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-07 21:43:49'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Snakefinger FTMFW\r\n\r\nI quit playing to be a fan and a graphic designer."
  created: '2008-03-07 21:48:43'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I could never quit playing, it's the healthiest thing I can do for myself
    spiritually. I miss playing live, the rest of it can go to hell\u2026 -:)\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-03-07 22:03:09'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I hear what you are saying about the \"sheen\". I am introduced to something
    new through <a href=\"http://www.allaboutjazz.com/php/contrib.php?id=2925\">my
    brother</a> all the time. He is very good at explaining what is happening in the
    music to me. Although I have to admit some of the more atonal stuff is very jarring
    and takes several listens before I find something to enjoy.\r\n\r\nWhat I was
    really talking about is the design of the album covers. The simplicity. Their
    use of Univers. "
  created: '2008-03-07 22:23:39'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "and that wonderful green record center with the silver ink. \r\n\r\nI migrated
    to the ECM sound on my own looking for Jazz when I was young and didn't know what
    it was. I didn't really get it though until I got to NTSU/UNT. Summers at that
    school were so wonderful. No one followed sportsl, it was all about the horn players
    and the Jazz school. Like your brother, Love Supreme did a number on me and started
    me on the good foot.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/13350f_5385.0.jpg]"
  created: '2008-03-07 22:37:06'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "This looks very similar to the Deutsche Gramophone Avant Garde series covers.
    Interesting. They were cut out around 1973 and I picked them up for nothing. They
    were more minimal than this, just color and typography, very nice stuff. Long
    gone by now.\r\n\r\nCouldn't find an example to post. They put out my favorite
    Mauricio Kagel LP \"Der Schall\".\r\n\r\nPerhaps the Germans were collaborating
    or influencing each other.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-03-08 00:40:46'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I did find this cover for Der Schall - pretty small so it's hard to make
    out. Basically the entire series were monotone gradients (banded like the ECM
    example) with typography. No other graphics.\r\n\r\npbc\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/737498_6524.png]"
  created: '2008-03-08 00:48:53'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "This is a photo of the packaging we did when we released \"below the level
    of observation\" by International Metal Supply. That was the last group I formed
    after finally quitting rock for good. The other player was a classically trained
    percussionist who had worked with Kagel and John Cage, among many others. We designed
    and built our own instruments, all metal with contact microphones. He is still
    one of my good friends and that was a really fun period of my life. The pinnacle
    of our performances was performing soundtracks to silent films. Really fun. I
    remember leaving my body during one of the performances.\r\n\r\npbc\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cd2_3791.jpg]"
  created: '2008-03-08 00:57:42'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Sounds like the Shellac mythos.
  created: '2008-03-08 01:07:59'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: Hey Paul that IMS CD is pretty cool. Where can one purchase on of those?
  created: '2008-03-08 01:28:26'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Couldn't find that online. Are they from California? California has always
    been a hotbed of percussion inventors. From Harry Partch to Richard A. Waters
    to Kraig Grady in the modern day there have just been a lot of percussion instruments
    invented here. Harry Partch is well worth checking out - he created instruments
    from glass, his own microtonal scale that all his music is based on and he was
    impervious. When the classical world got interested in him he refused to take
    his instruments anywhere, just wasn't interested. I like that.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-03-08 01:30:01'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Chicago. Note the custom heads and Travis Bean. AKA  [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5Pij6QXzyts&feature=related|Shellac
    of North America]].\r\n\r\nMore [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GqvK1QxqBW8&feature=related|fun]].\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-08 02:44:23'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "> Hey Paul that IMS CD is pretty cool. Where can one purchase on of those?\r\n\r\nLimited
    edition sold out long ago. Thanks for your interest.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-03-09 19:42:46'
- author:
    name: David Sudweeks
    picture: 112594
  body: On the subject of Reid Miles' cover work, which cut of Clarendon available
    today most closely approximates the one he used? I'm drawn to its charm.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/4803~Sonny-Clark-Trio-Posters_3459.jpg]
  created: '2008-03-09 23:13:38'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "You might like Farao\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/storm/farao/\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-10 04:32:05'
- author:
    name: Curiousity
    picture: 113826
  body: "I like your site set up Nick. Brown seems like a good choice for the job.\r\n\r\nI
    find it interesting how history often mandates the future when it comes to graphic
    treatment. I guess that's because they often had it right in the first place?"
  created: '2008-03-10 05:59:51'
- author:
    name: gulliver
    picture: 110581
  body: "Also consider other great period Clarendon alternates such as <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/urw/volta/\">Volta</a>,
    <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/urw/impressum/\">Impressum</a> or <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/search?search%5Btext%5D=Egiziano\">Egiziano</a>.\r\n\r\n\r\nDavid
    Thometz"
  created: '2008-03-10 06:09:02'
- author:
    name: Pieter van Rosmalen
    picture: 109564
  body: Parry by Artur Schmal, www.ourtype.be
  created: '2008-03-10 11:36:58'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Wow that ourtype site is painful to use.
  created: '2008-03-10 13:36:28'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: ">Wow that ourtype site is painful to use.\r\nNo direct linking possible and
    that stuff, right. But the typesetter is grand, here it's possible to format a
    textblock in the different styles and weights of the typeface!\r\n\r\nPS Parry
    is nice!"
  created: '2008-03-10 14:05:55'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: It was more the flashing and scrolling I had trouble with. Good thing I don't
    have epilepsy.
  created: '2008-03-10 14:54:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '[[http://www.fonts.com/FindFonts/RecentReleases/2007/Soho.htm|Soho]] would
    be another alternative. It is a very well done slab serif with a lot of punch
    and a contemporary look. '
  created: '2008-03-10 15:22:24'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Egiziano sounds about right to me - the remake is Giza - correct?\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-03-10 17:38:27'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Sonny Rollins <cite>Saxophone Colossus</cite> uses a nice blocky slab for
    comparison.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/8d8c124128a0989fde1b6010_4171.L.jpg]
  created: '2008-03-10 18:41:40'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: ">Sonny Rollins Saxophone Colossus uses a nice blocky slab for comparison.\r\nIs
    this Rockwell Extra Bold?"
  created: '2008-03-10 19:58:28'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Very well could be. My digital version looks less condensed and also the
    <cite>X</cite> doesn\u2019t drag its back foot like that."
  created: '2008-03-10 20:03:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Italia?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-10 20:07:40'
- author:
    name: heymendoza
  body: Wow, thanks for the suggestions. I'm glad it got people talking. I will take
    a look at all the typefaces suggested and see which one works. I'm really excited
    about the project now.
  created: '2008-03-10 22:17:03'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Yes if you give us 10 minutes we will write a dictionary, and a thesaurus,
    and an encyclopedia, etc\u2026 :)\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-03-10 23:52:59'
- author:
    name: Co
  body: "> Wow that ourtype site is painful to use.\r\n> It was more the flashing
    and scrolling I had trouble with. Good thing I don\u2019t have epilepsy.\r\n\r\nCome
    on pattyfab, where is this bitterness coming from?\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-11 06:27:58'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Patty wasn't being bitter. We're all free to have our own opinions, no?
  created: '2008-03-11 16:34:43'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Thanks, Tiff. I didn't mean to sound bitter. There are a lot of foundry sites
    that are very hard to look at, or to use. They don't do themselves a service if
    they scare people away before we even get to the fonts.
  created: '2008-03-11 17:21:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'The current very annoying blinking at the beginning was not there earlier,
    I think; that''s a real problem. The way you can easily blow up and test the fonts
    in all styles with your text is superb. '
  created: '2008-03-11 18:01:04'
- author:
    name: Co
  body: "Pattyfab, I cannot speak on behalf of those 'a lot of foundry sites', but
    as far as ourtype site is concerned -- on one thing we might agree: ourtype site
    isn't a sample of middle-of-the-road-webdesign. \r\n\r\nand yes, Tiff, long live
    the difference of opinions ;-)"
  created: '2008-03-11 18:45:12'
- author:
    name: gulliver
    picture: 110581
  body: "Ah! For good, chunky, geometric slab-serifs like on the Sonny Rollins poster,
    check out <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/urw/beton/\">Beton (Extra Bold)</a>,
    <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/urw/stymie/\">Stymie (Black)</a> or similarly
    weighty veriants of <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/memphis/\">Memphis</a>
    or <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/rockwell-mt-2/\">Rockwell</a>.\r\n\r\nDavid
    Thometz"
  created: '2008-03-11 20:59:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Also look at Serifa.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.linotype.com/1463/serifa-family.html?gclid=CP_Hp9b-hZICFShMGgodgHiOUw\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-11 21:23:13'
date: '2008-03-06 20:11:48'
node_type: forum
title: Suggestions for Jazz  typefaces

---
