---
author:
  name: AndrewSipe
  picture: 109430
body: "I'm well aware that there are many Grammarians on Typophile. I see it often
  in several threads. So, I thought the rest of us might take a cue and learn something
  from this.\r\n\r\nEnjoy.\r\n\r\nDirect Link: http://grammar.quickanddirtytips.com/top-ten-grammar-myths.aspx\r\nReproduced
  Text:\r\n\r\n<strong>Grammar Girl's Top 10 Language Myths:</strong>\r\n\r\n<strong>10.</strong>
  A run-on sentence is a really long sentence. Wrong! They can actually be quite short.
  In a run-on sentence, independent clauses are squished together without the help
  of punctuation or a conjunction. If you write I am happy I am glad as one sentence
  without a semicolon, colon, or dash between the two independent clauses, it's a
  run-on sentence even though it only has six words. (See episode 49 for more details.)\r\n\r\n<strong>9.</strong>
  You shouldn't start a sentence with the word however. Wrong! It's fine to start
  a sentence with however so long as you use a comma after it when it means \"nevertheless.\"
  (See episode 58 for more details.)\r\n\r\n<strong>8.</strong> Irregardless is not
  a word. Wrong! Irregardless is a word in the same way ain't is a word. They're informal.
  They're nonstandard. You shouldn't use them if you want to be taken seriously, but
  they have gained wide enough use to qualify as words. (See episode 94 for more details.)\r\n\r\n<strong>7.</strong>
  There is only one way to write the possessive form of a word that ends in s. Wrong!
  It's a style issue. For example, in the phrase Kansas's statute, you can put just
  an apostrophe at the end of Kansas or you can put an apostrophe s at the end of
  Kansas. Both ways are acceptable. (See episode 35 for more details.)\r\n\r\n<strong>6.</strong>
  Passive voice is always wrong. Wrong! Passive voice is when you don't name the person
  who's responsible for the action. An example is the sentence \"Mistakes were made,\"
  because it doesn't say who made the mistakes. If you don't know who is responsible
  for an action, passive voice can be the best choice. (See episode 46 for more details.)\r\n\r\n<strong>5.</strong>
  I.e. and e.g. mean the same thing. Wrong! E.g. means \"for example,\" and i.e. means
  roughly \"in other words.\" You use e.g. to provide a list of incomplete examples,
  and you use i.e. to provide a complete clarifying list or statement. (See episode
  53 for more details.)\r\n\r\n<strong>4.</strong> You use a before words that start
  with consonants and an before words that start with vowels. Wrong! You use a before
  words that start with consonant sounds and an before words that start with vowel
  sounds. So, you'd write that someone has an MBA instead of a MBA, because even though
  MBA starts with m, which is a consonant, it starts with the sound of the vowel e--MBA.
  (See episode 47 for more details.)\r\n\r\n<strong>3.</strong> It's incorrect to
  answer the question \"How are you?\" with the statement \"I'm good.\" Wrong! Am
  is a linking verb and linking verbs should be modified by adjectives such as good.
  Because well can also act as an adjective, it's also fine to answer \"I'm well,\"
  but some grammarians believe \"I'm well\" should be used to talk about your health
  and not your general disposition. (See episode 51 for more details.)\r\n\r\n<strong>2.</strong>
  You shouldn't split infinitives. Wrong! Nearly all grammarians want to boldly tell
  you it's OK to split infinitives. An infinitive is a two-word form of a verb. An
  example is \"to tell.\" In a split infinitive, another word separates the two parts
  of the verb. \"To boldly tell\" is a split infinitive because boldly separates to
  from tell. (See episode 9 for more details.)\r\n\r\nAnd now, the number one grammar
  myth, which my Twitter friends chose over splitting infinitives [fanfare music]\r\n\r\n<strong>1.</strong>
  You shouldn't end a sentence with a preposition. Wrong! You shouldn't end a sentence
  with a preposition when the sentence would mean the same thing if you left off the
  preposition. That means \"Where are you at?\" is wrong because \"Where are you?\"
  means the same thing. But there are many sentences where the final preposition is
  part of a phrasal verb or is necessary to keep from making stuffy, stilted sentences:
  I'm going to throw up, let's kiss and make up, and what are you waiting for are
  just a few examples.  (See episode 69 for more details.)\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: http://ngm.typepad.com/rogers_rules/ is a great blog for grammar tips. I particularly
    like the entry on the demise of hyphenation.
  created: '2008-03-08 17:24:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "a fun collection of anti-anti-isms :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-08 18:42:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "That was great!\r\n\r\nBut I bogged down in item four when you started discussing
    the letter \"a\" without quote marks, as I thought it was the indefinite article,
    rather than a noun. I often write about letters, and find that sometimes quote
    marks are necessary, sometimes not. \r\n\r\nFollowing the general principle \"omit
    the mark if doing so doesn't disturb meaning\", it would seem that it's better
    to discuss the letters of the alphabet without quotes; however, the fact that
    \"a\" may be mistaken for an indefinite article scotches that idea. Also, single
    letters may be mistaken for typos (i.e. the accidental addition of a space, or
    an \"i\" that has been inadvertently uncapitalized). So, although it might seem
    a bit pedantic, it's probably best to put quote marks around the letters of the
    alphabet when they're being used as names."
  created: '2008-03-08 19:27:17'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "So is <cite>over/more than</cite> over?\r\n\r\nAnd have we given up on <cite>begs
    the question</cite> as a logical fallacy in favor of the more common usage?"
  created: '2008-03-08 20:03:51'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "<cite>7. There is only one way to write the possessive form of a word that
    ends in s. Wrong! It\u2019s a style issue. For example, in the phrase Kansas\u2019s
    statute, you can put just an apostrophe at the end of Kansas or you can put an
    apostrophe s at the end of Kansas. Both ways are acceptable. (See episode 35 for
    more details.)</cite>\r\n\r\nWrong.  Arkansas's is the only correct form for the
    possessive of Arkansas, as decreed by the Arkansas State Legislature (note that
    also it is against the law to mispronounce the name of the state whilst in Arkansas).\r\n\r\nA
    better site for discussion of English grammar is [[http://itre.cis.upenn.edu/~myl/languagelog/|Language
    Log]].\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos
    cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-03-08 20:58:12'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: These are mostly correct, but I object to the elevation of "irregardless".
    Comparing it to "ain't" is nonsense. "Ain't" is practically as old as the English
    language; in strict usage it is a contraction of "am not". The illogically constructed
    "irregardless" is born of ignorance, and no more deserving of validation through
    repetition than "nukular" or "asterick".
  created: '2008-03-08 21:26:01'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: Seems a pretty ho hum list to me. I don't see how exposing any of these trivial
    "myths" is going to liberate anyone's writing and make it better.
  created: '2008-03-08 22:03:34'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I for one am from this day forward, going to write way more better irregardless.
    <em>(Irregardless is in my spell checker so it must be a word,eh?)</em>\r\n\r\nOne
    of the people who installs signs for me is wont to say things like \"Stay where
    you're at 'til I comes where you're to.\" \r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-03-08 22:49:08'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: But "ginormous" is a cromulent word, ain't it?
  created: '2008-03-08 23:34:54'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Ginormous is more than cromulent. It is!
  created: '2008-03-09 00:03:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sometimes you's guys jist hav'ta have fun wit stuff irregardless of if it
    be good :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-09 00:03:46'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "\"Me? Fail English? That's unpossible!\"\r\n   --Ralph Wiggum"
  created: '2008-03-09 00:14:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I had an English teacher who used to go ballistic if anybody used the word
    \"got\".\r\n\"BOY!\" he would thunder, \"Excise that word from your vocabulary!\"\r\nThat's
    why I tend to get (sorry) a bit sesquipedalian at times."
  created: '2008-03-09 00:17:30'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: As someone who has just written a looong book on the disastrous consequences
    of not being clear about when one is referring to a linguistic item and when one
    is referring to a thing ---  ie on the non-use of quotation marks --- I second
    Nick's complaint. The letter 'a' in the initial post, and various other references
    to words and letters, need quotation marks. If they should be there, put them
    in.
  created: '2008-03-09 00:41:04'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: 'There is also a converse to number 10 that I want Word''s Grammar checker
    to get through it''s thick skull: not every long sentence is automatically a run-on
    sentence.'
  created: '2008-03-09 00:43:24'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABYou shouldn\u2019t end a sentence with a preposition. Wrong! You
    shouldn\u2019t end a sentence with a preposition when the sentence would mean
    the same thing if you left off the preposition. That means \u201CWhere are you
    at?\u201D is wrong because \u201CWhere are you?\u201D means the same thing. But
    there are many sentences where the final preposition is part of a phrasal verb
    or is necessary to keep from making stuffy, stilted sentences: I\u2019m going
    to throw up, let\u2019s kiss and make up, and what are you waiting for are just
    a few examples. (See episode 69 for more details.)\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat the
    bloody hell?!? WRONG WRONG WRONG WRONG WRONG! [There\u2019s a run-on sentence
    for ya!]\r\n\r\nI thought this guy was supposed to be <em>breaking</em> myths,
    not empowering and continuing them!\r\n\r\nThe reason the myth that \u201Cending
    a sentence in a preposition is bad\u201D even exists is that purists in the 14th
    to 16th centuries all thought Latin was the greatest thing ever and French should
    be used as an ideal role model at all times; and in Romance languages, it <em>is</em>
    wrong to end a sentence in a preposition.\r\n\r\nBut English is a Germanic language,
    and <em>there is never anything wrong with ending a sentence in a preposition
    in any Germanic language</em> (assuming it makes logical and grammatical sense
    to do so, of course), it\u2019s a perfectly natural result of the rather complex
    patterns of word inversion that appear in all Germanic languages when fronting
    a sentential topic (some more complex than others, of course).\r\n\r\nAnd when
    it comes to \u2018throw up\u2019 and \u2018make up\u2019 &hellip; well, that just
    goes to show that the [excuse the harsh language] idiot who wrote this list doesn\u2019t
    know a thing about language or grammar. \u2018Up\u2019 in these two phrasal verbs
    are <em>not</em> prepositions, they\u2019re bloody adverbs! A preposition requires
    the possibility of adding an object, which neither of these two have. If an object
    is added, it\u2019s the object of the verb, not the preposition (which is an adverb).\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n<cite>\xABWrong.
    Arkansas\u2019s is the only correct form for the possessive of Arkansas, as decreed
    by the Arkansas State Legislature (note that also it is against the law to mispronounce
    the name of the state whilst in Arkansas).\xBB</em>\r\n\r\nBut he was talking
    about Kansas, not Arkansas. ;-)\r\n\r\n(I have to admit, I don\u2019t know if
    a similar situation exists for Kansas)\r\n\r\nAlso, he completely neglects to
    mention here that where personal names taken from antiquity are concerned, there
    is in fact no choice: an apostrophe without an s is the only choice.\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n<cite>\xABI
    had an English teacher who used to go ballistic if anybody used the word \u201Cgot\u201D.\r\n\u201CBOY!\u201D
    he would thunder, \u201CExcise that word from your vocabulary!\u201D\r\nThat\u2019s
    why I tend to get (sorry) a bit sesquipedalian at times.\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nUgh,
    I hate people (teachers) who do that. <em>Get</em> is a good Ol\u2019 Norse (that
    was a pun) word that\u2019s been frequently used and has formed part of the basic
    core of English verbs and auxiliaries for at least seven or eight centuries. There
    is absolutely no reason to excise it.\r\n\r\n(And surely there is nothing wrong
    with sesquipedalianism, as long as it\u2019s not outright hippopotomonstrosesquipedalianism)"
  created: '2008-03-09 12:46:33'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>The letter \u2019a\u2019 in the initial post, and various other references
    to words and letters, need quotation marks.</cite>\r\n\r\nDunno about Australia,
    but in the States, and following the dreaded Chicago style, the single quotes
    \ are allowed only in books about philosophy. That lets  philosophers have their
    sense-reference distinction. For any non-philosophical topic, the editor will
    change single quotes to double quotes.\r\n\r\nBefore you think philosophers are
    on to something, consider that in philosophy, the statement \"I don't understand\"
    is a serious criticism of an argument just offered, and in no way refers to the
    intellectual capacity of the person who says \"I don't understand.\" Rather different
    situation in mathematics, engineering, computer science, and even English.\r\n\r\n*
    * *\r\n\r\nI once asked an editor what was the difference between \"regardless\"
    and \"irregardless.\" He replied \"breeding.\"\r\n\r\nThen there is the <cite>Irregardless
    Cafe</cite> in Raleigh, North Carolina . . ."
  created: '2008-03-09 13:34:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>There is absolutely no reason to excise it</em> [get]. \r\n\r\nHis reason:
    that \"get\" is an all-purpose word which lazy pupils will use when they can't
    be bothered to think of anything more precise or interesting, and such bad habits
    will stunt the growth of their vocabulary, impoverishing their means of expression
    (and exam results). So:\r\n\r\nI got up this morning: I arose \r\nI got angry:
    I became angry\r\nI've got to go: I must go\r\nI get the point: I understand\r\n...and
    so on\r\n\r\nBut you have a point, perhaps he would have been better to allow
    us a few legitimate uses, explaining when it's appropriate to be terse and vernacular,
    rather than long-winded and pretentious. That was earlier in my school career
    though, and we got (ah-ha!) a dose of Pinter and Beckett later on."
  created: '2008-03-09 15:56:19'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "<cite>And when it comes to \u2018throw up\u2019 and \u2018make up\u2019 \u2026
    well, that just goes to show that the [excuse the harsh language] idiot who wrote
    this list doesn\u2019t know a thing about language or grammar. \u2018Up\u2019
    in these two phrasal verbs are not prepositions, they\u2019re bloody adverbs!
    \ </cite>\r\n\r\nHe would have been better off just calling them particles, which
    is a better catch-all term for the preposition/adverb/etc that follows the root
    verb in a phrasal verb.  (in English, at least)\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una
    l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB.
    (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-03-09 17:35:51'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "Conjunction Junction, what's your function?\r\nHooking up words and phrases
    and clauses. "
  created: '2008-03-09 20:52:57'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABHe would have been better off just calling them particles, which
    is a better catch-all term for the preposition/adverb/etc that follows the root
    verb in a phrasal verb. (in English, at least)\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nBut that wouldn\u2019t
    fit this particular context well, since dangling prepositions (or, if we\u2019re
    including this airhead\u2019s examples, dangling particles in general) is one
    of the cases where distinguishing between prepositions and adverbs actually becomes
    relevant, since it is possible\u2014in most cases\u2014to front prepositions,
    but never adverbs, in phrasal verb constructions.\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n<cite>\xABHis
    reason: that \u201Cget\u201D is an all-purpose word which lazy pupils will use
    when they can\u2019t be bothered to think of anything more precise or interesting,
    and such bad habits will stunt the growth of their vocabulary, impoverishing their
    means of expression (and exam results). So:\r\n\r\n<em>I got up this morning:
    I arose\r\nI got angry: I became angry\r\nI\u2019ve got to go: I must go\r\nI
    get the point: I understand\r\n...and so on\xBB</em></cite>\r\n\r\nI honestly
    cannot see why the existence of \u2018get up\u2019 should deny \u2018arise\u2019,
    or vice versa. This kind of teaching has always struck me as odd.\r\n\r\nNaturally,
    the students need to know that there are various different ways of expressing
    the same thing, and they need to realise that there are register differences between
    them. They should know that in a written work aspiring to be terse, epic, or poetic
    in character, writing, \u201CI got out of bed this morning\u201D is an inferior
    choice to, \u201CI arose this morning\u201D. But they should also know that in
    a colloquial, verbal setting, when chatting with your mates, the latter sentence
    would sound almost ridiculously formal, while the former would be neutral and
    expected.\r\n\r\nTo say that only the higher-register forms should exist, and
    the lower-register forms should be expunged altogether is as much a crime against
    the language as the opposite would be. It\u2019s linguistic snobbery, something
    that has plagued the history of the English language in particular (though many
    others have been nearly as affected by it) in the past demi-millennium."
  created: '2008-03-10 00:02:25'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla
    nosotros mismos\xBB.\r\n[La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero]\r\n\r\nThat is far
    my understanding can go. My head is a big salad of languages. Is there a Tip\xF3filo
    (Tipophilo) rom\xE1nico?\r\n\r\nAs to add wood to the fire of discussion, a word:\r\n\r\nGorgeosity\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-10 00:30:06'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "<em>\"The reason the myth that \u201Cending a sentence in a preposition is
    bad\u201D even exists is that purists in the 14th to 16th centuries all thought
    Latin was the greatest thing ever and French should be used as an ideal role model
    at all times; and in Romance languages, it is wrong to end a sentence in a preposition.\r\n\r\nBut
    English is a Germanic language, and there is never anything wrong with ending
    a sentence in a preposition in any Germanic language (assuming it makes logical
    and grammatical sense to do so, of course), it\u2019s a perfectly natural result
    of the rather complex patterns of word inversion that appear in all Germanic languages
    when fronting a sentential topic (some more complex than others, of course).\"</em>\r\n\r\nEnglish
    is a a hybrid language formed from a Germanic base and with much French influence,
    starting in the 11th Century, thus causing the enormous difference between Middle
    English and Anglo-Saxon. If you are going to shout on a forum at least shout things
    that are true. \r\n\r\n(That said, I don't disagree with what you said about prepositions
    here \u2014 merely your argument for that conclusion.)"
  created: '2008-03-10 00:30:35'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "Is fascinating that folks can talk among themselves in italian spanish and
    catalan, not knowing the other ones language and parlar.\r\nSorry no ap\xF3strofes.\r\n\r\nA
    line for a specimen:\r\n\r\nIMAGINARIUM LANGUAE\r\n\r\nI don't even know if it
    exists, catalogued. But authought uncertain its meaning\r\n\r\nIT IS A GREAT LINE
    \r\n\r\nfor my coming rom\xE1nica type face. Nothing fancy. A exercise, the rummering
    the curve.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-10 01:06:11'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABEnglish is a a hybrid language formed from a Germanic base and
    with much French influence, starting in the 11th Century, thus causing the enormous
    difference between Middle English and Anglo-Saxon. If you are going to shout on
    a forum at least shout things that are true.\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nBut English is
    not a hybrid language, it is a purely Germanic language. It\u2019s true that it\u2019s
    been under extremely heavy Romance influence, but its base is still unequivocally
    Germanic\u2014if anything, its <em>vocabulary</em> is hybrid.\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    also true that Romance languages have had some influence in the fact that certain
    sentence patterns and structures have fallen into disuse or at least become less
    common or more stilted than they once were (a good example is the reduced use
    of inversion in Modern English, a simplification that was no doubt partially spurred
    on by the relative lack of inversion in French); but that doesn\u2019t make the
    English language itself any less Germanic in base.\r\n\r\nAnd really, in the entire
    period between Anglo-Saxon (I take it that by using this term, rather than \u2018Old
    English\u2019, you are referring to the earlier stages of the language?) and Middle
    English, Early French was hardly a major contributor in causing the rapid evolvement
    of the language. In the earlier parts of this interval, various Celtic languages
    and Latin were by far the largest influences, and in the later parts of it, Old
    Norse was\u2014and of these, only Old Norse managed to really make any kind of
    lasting impression beyond the simple vocabulary level. It was only towards the
    very final stages of Old English, and especially in the early stages of Middle
    English, that French really began to be a heavy influence.\r\n\r\nBut anyways\u2014this
    is all neither really here nor there, nothing more than a derailment. Apologies
    if I came off like I was \u201Cshouting on a forum\u201D, that wasn\u2019t my
    intention. I just get all riled up when people create these \u2018myth-busting\u2019
    articles and publish them for all the world to read, and then include such elemental
    errors. No hard feelings, I hope. :-)"
  created: '2008-03-10 01:34:05'
- author:
    name: gulliver
    picture: 110581
  body: "Supposedly, an editor had clumsily rearranged one of Winston Churchill\u2019s
    sentences to avoid ending it in a preposition.\r\n\r\nThe British Prime Minister,
    very proud of his style, reportedly scribbled this note in reply:\r\n\r\n\u201CThis
    is the sort of bloody nonsense up with which I will not put.\u201D\r\n\r\nhttp://www.wsu.edu/~brians/errors/churchill.html\r\n\r\nDavid
    Thometz"
  created: '2008-03-10 06:35:06'
- author:
    name: solfeggio
    picture: 112465
  body: 'Sagacious tip from Mark Twain: "Substitute ''damn'' every time you''re inclined
    to write ''very''; your editor will delete it and the writing will be just as
    it should be."'
  created: '2008-03-10 07:52:37'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "\"3. It\u2019s incorrect to answer the question \u201CHow are you?\u201D
    with the statement \u201CI\u2019m good.\u201D Wrong! Am is a linking verb and
    linking verbs should be modified by adjectives such as good. Because well can
    also act as an adjective, it\u2019s also fine to answer \u201CI\u2019m well,\u201D
    but some grammarians believe \u201CI\u2019m well\u201D should be used to talk
    about your health and not your general disposition. (See episode 51 for more details.)\"\r\n\r\nHm...
    isn't \"to be\" polysemic? Both a linking word (a _copula_), but also a regular
    verb?\r\nWhile it's correct, that copulae bind adjectives to nouns, when it's
    used as a verb, it is modified with an adverb.\r\n\r\nSuch, \"I'm good\" means
    \"I am a good person\", \"I'm well\" means \"I'm feeling well\".\r\n\r\nTo answer
    the question \"How are you?\" with \"I'm good\" is either misunderstanding the
    question, or being the opposite of modest... :-)\r\n\r\n\r\nWell, that for the
    theory. In practice, a lot of people \"say\" I'm good. So from a descriptive point
    of view, it's correct. One ought not write it though. \"You bloody don't write
    everything that leaves your dirty mouth\". ;-)"
  created: '2008-03-10 12:44:22'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "On quoting \"a\".\r\n\r\nIn some linguistic typesetting traditions, when
    speaking of a word on the meta level, you italicise it, rather than using quotes.\r\n\r\nAlso
    a nice solution."
  created: '2008-03-10 12:47:01'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABHm... isn\u2019t \u201Cto be\u201D polysemic? Both a linking word
    (a _copula_), but also a regular verb?\r\nWhile it\u2019s correct, that copulae
    bind adjectives to nouns, when it\u2019s used as a verb, it is modified with an
    adverb.\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nI can\u2019t think of any (normal) instances where \u2018to
    be\u2019 is not a copula. A copula is not merely a verb that binds an adjective
    to a noun; rather, it\u2019s any verb that connects the subject of a sentence
    with the subject complement. As such, it is a verb that connects to equal sentential
    units, and they must both be nominal (\_=\_either a noun, a nominal phrase, or
    an adjective). It cannot connect a nominal unit with a verbal or adverbial unit
    (using \u2018adverbial\u2019 in the non-systemic sense of \u2018anything that\u2019s
    neither nominal nor verbal\u2019). The verb \u2018to be\u2019 is never modified;
    rather, is used as a \u2018dummy placeholder\u2019 in the required verbal position
    in the sentence when the subject itself is what\u2019s being modified.\r\n\r\nWhether
    you say, \u201CI am good\u201D or \u201CI am well\u201D, \u2018good\u2019 and
    \u2018well\u2019 are both adjectives. \u2018Good\u2019 means what you say it means,
    dealing with inherent qualities (being a good person, &c.), but it is also, albeit
    informally so, used as a subsitute for the adjective (not adverb!) \u2018well\u2019,
    which means \u2018healthy, free of illness\u2019. So, \u201CI am good\u201D can
    mean both things, depending on context.\r\n\r\nConsider that substituting a different
    adjective for \u2018good/well\u2019, but the sentence ceases to make sense if
    you substitute an adverb in their stead: \u201CI am angry\u201D works fine, but
    \u201CI am angrily\u201D does not. The only case where the latter might be said
    to work is if you take \u2018to be\u2019 in its meaning of \u2018to exist\u2019:
    \u201CHe exists angrily\u201D would then imply the way in which he carries out
    his existence. It\u2019s a bit far-fetched, but it\u2019s the only way \u2018to
    be\u2019 can be used with an adverb that I can think of."
  created: '2008-03-10 13:54:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am oh, so glad I never chose a career as an editor :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-10 15:35:02'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Chris, everyone who respects the English language and good spelling is glad
    I didn't.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-03-10 16:15:27'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: "> If you write I am happy I am glad as one sentence without a semicolon,
    colon, or dash between the two independent clauses, it\u2019s a run-on sentence
    even though it only has six words.\r\n\r\nUm. It depends on the thought you're
    trying to express. If you're saying the same thing two different ways (e.g., to
    be poetic, to intensify the thought, or because you're misquoting the Cream song),
    then yes, it's a run-on sentence. But perhaps you mean that you're pleased to
    be feeling glad: \"I am happy (that) I am glad.\" That's not a run-on sentence."
  created: '2008-03-10 16:38:33'
- author:
    name: hatch_xanadu
  body: I've got no problem with "irregardless", as long as it ain't used to mean
    "regardless".
  created: '2008-03-11 15:20:08'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "\"I would like to share a revelation that I have had\". It is just a drawing;
    made back in the nineties. I used to make this quick drawings using china ink
    and color markers.\r\n\r\nI believe it has a relationship to something I was thinking
    back then related to idiomatic expressions, and pertinent to the topic of THE
    discussion.\r\n\r\nI noted also that there are some romanesqve lines in the drawing.
    The drawing is just a vision, so, what you see, is what you get.\r\n\r\n(It doesn't
    have a title. I ended up writing this one, which is pertinent)\r\n\r\n**[img:sites/default/files/old-images/romanesqve-idiomatic_4390.jpg]\r\n\r\n\"Romanesqve
    Idiomatic\" [3\"x4\"]"
  created: '2008-03-11 16:31:28'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "man, dis \u2019ish is off da mugga fuggin chain!!!\r\n\r\nmeaning roughly-
    \u201Crequisite collection of grammatical dictums\u201D\r\n\r\nMikey :-)"
  created: '2008-03-11 19:59:40'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: Irregardless appears to be an inflammable topic.
  created: '2008-03-11 22:30:01'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "when I was a kid in Back of Beyond, British Columbia, we were driving along
    behind a big truck that had the word INFLAMMABLE in big bold red letters across
    the back and along the sides. I asked my dad if that meant that whatever it was
    carrying would or wouldn't burn. It was confusing. If it won't burn, then why
    the warning signs? He said, it means it won't burn, it'll just explode. I never
    knew if he just made that up or not, but he was a miner at the time, so I figured
    he knew what he was talking about. :-)\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-03-12 03:55:17'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "It means the cargo can become inflamed.\r\n\r\nI wonder if this jacket is
    breathable?"
  created: '2008-03-12 03:57:40'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "\"INFLAMMABLE\" means that it can burn. The trick is that the in- in inflammable
    is not the same as in e.g. \"inable\".\r\nBoth are Latin verbal prefixes, but
    one relates to English \"in-\", the uther to English \"un-\".\r\n\r\nThe one in
    \"inable\", \"inadvertable\" means (related to \"un-\") means \"not\": not able,
    not advertable, it's also the \"ir-\" in irrelevant (not relevant), but there
    the \"n\" turned into an \"r\" due to phonological processes in Latin.\r\n\r\nThe
    one in \"inflammable\" (related to \"in-\") means the same as the preposition
    \"in\", it signifies direction, movement (in an abstract sense as well), or the
    following in time (metaphoric usage of \"movement\" used instead of space for
    \"movement\" in time). Here inflammable inflamm- (from inflammare) means to start
    burning (where the \"start\" semantic component comes from \"in\", the \"burning\"
    from flamm(are); flamm(are) is kin to \"flame\"), so inflammable means: it can
    start burning, it's burnable.\r\n\r\nFlammable is a neologism which is derived
    from the original inflammable (probably also through contamination with the English
    word \"flame\".\r\n\"inflame\" (of which inflammable is derived with -able) is
    attested as of 1340. \"flammalbe\" is first attested 1813."
  created: '2008-03-12 14:21:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Perhaps (for more clarity) the sign on the truck should have read: \"This
    sucker will burn will burn your arse of so stay the hell away!\" :-)\r\n\r\n ChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-12 15:10:53'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: aszszelp, not saying you're wrong, but wouldn't that sense of "in" more commonly
    be rendered "en," so inflammable would be enflammable?
  created: '2008-03-12 16:37:05'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "r\xE9ellement, je pense que le camion est venu du Qu\xE9bec... pre federal
    regulations on bilingualism in Canadia. \r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-03-12 17:49:01'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Gus, en- would be usually used if the word was taken via Norman-French (or
    later from French). Not however, if it was taken directly from Latin via \"scholarly\"
    knowledge/introduction etc. Remember: in 1340 those who could write were 99.5%
    monks and would know (and use) latin all the time!\r\n\r\nWell, English had to
    endure a lot of \"mixing\"...\r\nto sum up, verbal prefixes with the meaning \"in\"
    can be (at least): in-, en-\r\nverbal prefixes with the meaning \"not\" can be
    (at least): in-, un-, a-, an-, non-, etc."
  created: '2008-03-13 16:28:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "English was a melting pot language which is why we have so many exceptions
    to so many rules.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-13 16:49:22'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABGus, en- would be usually used if the word was taken via Norman-French
    (or later from French).\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nOr from Greek (in which case it means
    \u2018inside\u2019, i.e., in a locative sense, rather than \u2018into\u2019 in
    an accusative sense).\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n<cite>\xABverbal prefixes with the
    meaning \u201Cnot\u201D can be (at least): in-, un-, a-, an-, non-, etc.\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd
    all but the last come from the exact same word, logically enough simply <em>n\u0325</em>
    (wonder how that will look in Georgia). <strong>Edit.</strong> Apparently none
    too good. That was supposed to be a syllabic n, an n with a ring under it.\r\n\r\nWe
    should have just stuck with PIE while it was still a more or less homogeneous
    and manageable can of worms. Would have been much easier."
  created: '2008-03-13 23:45:08'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: '"non" (Latin for not) also has the PIE syllabic "n" with the semantics of
    "negation" in there. The difference is, that the others were already verbal prefixes
    in the languages from which English took over the words in question, while the
    non-construct is more-or-less an English invention (using a latin word as a verbal
    prefix).'
  created: '2008-03-14 13:31:50'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: The n-ringbelow does not look that bad... but at that leading the bottom half
    of the ring is cut off / not rendered (at least in FF).
  created: '2008-03-14 13:33:13'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "Oh\u2014in Safari (at least here), it appears as an <em>n</em> with a big,
    fat square after it. Which is rather untelling.\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n<cite>\xAB\u201Cnon\u201D
    (Latin for not) also has the PIE syllabic \u201Cn\u201D with the semantics of
    \u201Cnegation\u201D in there.\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, but it also has <em>oenum</em>,
    unlike the others.\r\n\r\n<em>Non</em> sort of worked as a prefix in Latin, too,
    the same way it does in English: it could be used to negate adjectives (especially
    present participle- or gerundive-based ones), and would then lead to units that
    could almost be considered semantically close enough to form a word, even in Latin."
  created: '2008-03-15 01:35:04'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "Hi there good folks. I am back. I have a little gift that everyone will love:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1st-Page-Bible_3417.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    posted here earlier, some \"stuff\" and, although some of you may consider this
    coming out of some crazy book or cinematographic animation; \"Am I dreaming\"
    you would say that, but it is pure and simple right out of own head.\r\nI posted
    something in this blog because I have a feeling that my English skills (?) are
    kind of amusing, and I hope you will like the entertainment, \"this is only the
    beginning\". If that is your case, you are welcome.\r\nI did not post here my
    comments as to inmiscuate myself in somebody else's business nor to illustrate
    myself as a \"Total Informal\" entity. I do that sometimes... I am still trying
    to figure out why, huuummm; why do I do (...) that?\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nPara aquellos
    de Ustedes qu\xE9 hablan Espa\xF1ol, todo ser\xEDa m\xE1s f\xE1cil si pudieramos
    simplemente olvidar la Lengua Inglesa.\r\nEn may\xFAsculas.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nPour
    ceux de vous qui parlez le fran\xE7ais, j'\xE9tends mon grand respect et admiration,
    parce qu'un monde sans France serait inconcevable \u2014 Salud.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nFor
    sometime, right after coming to upstate New York from Lisbon, I attended English
    classes. The students were from all places, Japan, Chinese-Canadians, Italians
    and so many other good folks. The teacher, Ms. Proust was german. She spoke clean
    beautiful English. The first day of class, she wrote her name and asked to the
    students to pronounce it. Out of a dozen students I was the only one who spelled
    it correctly. She also said some time later that she was happy that the German
    language wasn't poluted by Latin. I pronounced her name correctly by a series
    of guessings (!) right out of my own round head.\r\nFew months down the road I
    simply stop attending classes, because the thick accent of most of the students
    were actually poluting my mind, in a way that I would dislearn(?) what I already
    knew.\r\n\r\nI actually learned some English talking to Germans, good folks. I
    was lucky to have so good teachers. I did also studied English as a kid, but the
    course of English in a public school was more a curiosity of the teachers then
    actually education.\r\n\r\nI love the diccionary in the Mac OS X. I found this
    in there (hehe):\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/BE_3728.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    highlighted a definition that, for my EYES has to do with what we are talking
    here.\r\n\r\nMy first posting in the Tipophile was \"AGL Grand Opening\" A Letterpress
    Shop.\r\nIt is dreamy, though, but it is my vision. It seems informal, but THIS
    IS AN ARTIST'S VENUE and therefore appropriate.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nP.S.: I come
    here a couple of days after my second comment and the blog was no longer on top
    of the \"hottest\" list. Then I thought:\r\n\r\nOooPsss....\r\n\r\nCheers\r\n\r\nThe
    Small Printer\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-15 12:00:51'
date: '2008-03-08 16:38:21'
title: Are you a Grammarian? 10 Grammar Myths

---
