---
author:
  name: blank
body: I know that most font designers start their designs with sketches of varying
  levels of detail and quality. But do type designers draw out entire alphabets, or
  just the draw key characters and the design elements that give a font personality,
  and then use the computer to build up the rest?
comments:
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "As another aspiring type designer, I can say for certain one thing I've figured
    out: there's no magic formula to creating a great typeface, and everyone has their
    own method. Of course, the one I use, and which I think is quite typical, is to
    draw out the UC and lc of \"hamburgefonstiv\" (there are lots of similar words,
    like \"handgloves\"), to define all the basic rules of the typeface. I scan these
    in, trace them in FontLab, and then work entirely digitally from there. Translating
    the essence of your sketch to bezier curves is probably the hardest thing to do
    as a type designer, at least in my opinion.\r\n\r\nIf I could be a fly on the
    wall and copy Jonathon Hoefler's or Matthew Carter's working process, I'm not
    sure it would improve my type design skills at all. Unfortunately, the only way
    to design an amazing typeface is to design a bunch of crappy ones and figure out
    what doesn't work. I have been happy with the concepts of all my typefaces, but
    I don't think I've made one yet that succeeds aesthetically -- each new one does
    get better, though."
  created: '2008-03-08 20:46:05'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>Use the computer to build the rest?</cite>\r\n\r\nHuh?"
  created: '2008-03-08 21:00:17'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Huh?</cite>\r\n\r\nI was referring to constructing letters from a series
    of similar parts and then making adjustments to the individual letters. "
  created: '2008-03-08 23:14:19'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: 'Yeah I usually draw about half and use the computer for the rest. I think
    really it depends on the style of the font though. For me I would think a script
    would require a higher number of sketches than say a sans serif. '
  created: '2008-03-08 23:43:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I do damn little drawing by pencil/pen if any and just go straight to a blank
    FontLab screen and draw it the bezier way.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-09 00:07:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I draw by hand with FontLab's vector tools, by way of Wacom.\r\n\r\nI occasionally
    sketch, but only to work out an idea, not for use as artwork that will be scanned.\r\n\r\nRight
    Haley, I am considering doing a handwriting font, so that would be *written* and
    scanned. But not drawn!"
  created: '2008-03-09 00:23:42'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Like Nick I sketch ideas on paper with a gel pen or similar writing instrument,
    but they're only ideas, not plans for typefaces. Producing a font is a construction
    process; I draw each glyph in detail in Fontlab with its excellent drawing tools
    and sometimes with a tablet for spontenaity. For most fonts I don't do any sketching
    on paper. I visualize what I am going to draw in my mind.\r\n\r\nUnless you are
    making a script or handwriting font, scanning drawings on paper---no matter how
    neat you manage to make the drawings---is a cumbersome and unneccessary way to
    transfer material from paper to Fontlab. Scanning a sketch then cleaning up the
    bitmap and importing it into Fontlab, then drawing over the top of the bitmap
    used as a mask, and perfecting the vector drawing---all that is a time-consuming
    hassle. I find it easier to tape the sketch to the shadow mask of the monitor
    and simply reproduce digitally what I see in the glyph window, drawing it by eye.
    That method has improved my bezier drawing skills lots.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-03-09 01:55:39'
- author:
    name: Andy Martin
    picture: 111412
  body: "I prefer to use pen/pencil and paper to get ideas out. Otherwise I think
    I'd be sitting staring at blank screen for quite some time. The Script font I'm
    working on has taken a considerable number of attempts with pen and ink to obtain
    the desired characteristics for each letter. As Nick says this is written as opposed
    to drawing.\r\n\r\nI tend to work my scans up into vectors by way of Illustrator,
    then into Fontlab. I personally find it quicker that way."
  created: '2008-03-09 02:10:22'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "I wish I knew what the original question aims at.\r\nIf you have some experience
    in designing typefaces -- you know how letterforms are 'constructed', know about
    different types of contrast, etc -- then you may need only few or no written or
    drawn sketches and derive the rest digitally. (Mind that answers in this direction
    came from experienced type designers!)\r\nIf you are still new to type design,
    then you better take <em>a lot of</em> time, sit down at your desk with pens and
    pencils, and write and draw so you get a feeling for letterforms. And then scan,
    trace, and refine the outlines. You will notice that switching the medium in this
    process will raise questions you would not have encountered otherwise. (Things
    like: Corners seem to be rounded after scanning the drawings -- do I keep them
    rounded, or do I transform them into corners? I need to make a decision. This
    is very different from doing corners right from the start and never thinking about
    an alternative.) This is a slow process and may seem odd, but may help to not
    repeat existing typefaces which almost naturally happens if digital type is inspired
    by other digital type.\r\n\r\nAnd please ... even though we ship typefaces as
    fonts, we are <em>type</em> designers, not <em>font</em> designers. (Trying hard
    to imagine you 'designing' a font directly in TTX.)"
  created: '2008-03-09 14:15:13'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>I was referring to constructing letters from a series of similar parts
    and then making adjustments to the individual letters.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut you would
    use this technique regardless of the tools used. That is what type design is.
    No?\r\n\r\nI remember doing some work with Ed Benguiat years ago. We were developing
    a corporate font for a cosmetics company. Ed did the drawings and I did all the
    digitizing. Ed had such a dismissive attitude towards the computer tools. He said
    he felt he could do a better job drawing by hand and try as I did, I could not
    get him to try working with bezier tools. I had to laugh, since the way Ed had
    worked for years was the analog equivalent of the same technique. Ed would draw
    basic shapes and have them shot onto film. He would then cut the film up and strip
    the elements together. Have another film shot and retouch the results. This shooting
    of film positives and film negatives went on until he was happy with the results.\r\n\r\nSame
    technique, different tools."
  created: '2008-03-09 14:17:35'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Great story, James!\r\n\r\n> even though we ship typefaces as fonts, we are
    type designers, not font designers\r\n\r\nI like Nick Sherman's analogy: it's
    like calling songwriters \"mp3 writers\"."
  created: '2008-03-09 18:53:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "You mean tunesmiths?\r\nI'm surprised, working in foundries as we do, that
    we aren't called fontsmiths.\r\nWell, actually, there is this bloke named Jason..."
  created: '2008-03-09 19:15:31'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "Shinn,\r\n\r\nIs there someone making real metal mats around?"
  created: '2008-03-09 19:23:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Sorry, I haven't a clue.
  created: '2008-03-09 22:00:03'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "James, to get back to your original question, with my early attempts I drew
    a lot of the characters by hand and then went to the computer... Later I wised
    up and started drawing only a few key characters by hand, as others have already
    mentioned, before switching to digital tools.\r\n\r\nEven then, when I go to the
    computer first I draw the characters needed to spell \"hamburgerfonts\" (\"hamburgerfontivs\"
    and \"handgloves\" are other alternatives), in upper case as well as lower case,
    before I draw any others."
  created: '2008-03-10 04:21:04'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Thanks for all the answers. I have been experimenting with all sorts of process
    methods with my fonts; my own experience and this thread have really confirmed
    my feelings that paper just doesn\u2019t translate to a digital font well enough
    to justify spending a whole lot of time at the drawing board."
  created: '2008-03-10 04:59:59'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: I draw by hand directly on a computer and do the spacing at the same time
    as I draw the character. Since the result is going to end up as beziercurves I
    feel it is so much better to do these right away instead of trying them out on
    paper first.
  created: '2008-03-10 13:56:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "A mouse or a digital pen are the same as a graphite pencil if you know how
    to use them.\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2008-03-10 14:13:03'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>paper just doesn\u2019t translate to a digital font well enough to justify
    spending a whole lot of time at the drawing board</em>\r\n\r\nWell, I wasn't saying
    that... If I were making a script face, or something that needs to look hand-drawn,
    I might very well draw everything by hand and then scan it in...\r\n\r\n[EDIT]
    ...or I might use a digital pen, as Nick says."
  created: '2008-03-10 14:29:11'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: 'I''m interested in what order more experienced type designers go about designing
    their letters. Do you start with h? o? Capital R? Maybe a more unusual character? '
  created: '2008-03-10 23:07:32'
- author:
    name: Stephen Rapp
    picture: 111901
  body: "Since I work mostly as a lettering artist for greeting cards, I typically
    do casual scripts fonts. I'm not as used to drawing from scratch with bezier tools,
    so I import most of my letters from Photoshop files that are pretty closed to
    finished. I usually end up doing most of my letters by hand first, but at some
    point I copy and tweak things in FontLab to get some additional glyphs.\r\n\r\nStephen
    Rapp"
  created: '2008-03-11 04:20:29'
- author:
    name: Andy Martin
    picture: 111412
  body: I have to admit I do actually enjoy the feel of pen on paper as opposed to
    stylus on tablet, maybe that's the old artist in me trying to claw it's way back.
    Plus it's a quick way to jot ideas down and it gets me away from the computer
    for a while, which I need from time to time.
  created: '2008-03-11 16:31:28'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>I\u2019m interested in what order more experienced type designers go
    about designing their letters. Do you start with h? o? Capital R? Maybe a more
    unusual character?</cite>\r\n\r\nIf you really think about it, the answer should
    present itself to you. Typeface design is system design. What are the most useful
    elements in the system? The repetitive ones that influence the majority of shapes.
    One would hope that you would make a decision regarding those shapes before you
    got to far along. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-12 01:57:42'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "<cite>If you really think about it, the answer should present itself to you.
    Typeface design is system design. What are the most useful elements in the system?
    The repetitive ones that influence the majority of shapes. One would hope that
    you would make a decision regarding those shapes before you got to far along.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    usually start with h, then a-m-b-u-r-g-e-f-o-n-s-t-i-v in sequential order, followed
    by the caps version of that. I've sometimes wondered if it might make more sense
    to work with the unruly characters -- s, uppercase N, x, for example -- and then
    build the rest of the letters around those. Letters like these are difficult to
    fit into rule systems, and look overworked and massaged when they are, so maybe
    it makes more sense to let these letters set the rules."
  created: '2008-03-12 07:53:33'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Letters like these are difficult to fit into rule systems, and look
    overworked and massaged when they are, so maybe it makes more sense to let these
    letters set the rules.</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve had some similar thoughts recently,
    mostly because I\u2019ve been learning what a PITA it is to draw a good sans W.The
    cap N is another nasty one\u2014I just redrew most of the majuscules in my thesis
    font because the widths I had been working with produced a hideous M. It\u2019s
    funny how one can trap out a bunch of too-narrow letters and somehow make them
    work, but once the N comes up all the crap falls apart and it\u2019s time to start
    over."
  created: '2008-03-12 12:27:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I\u2019ve had some similar thoughts recently\r\n\r\nJames P., James M. is
    very experienced, and in my much more limited experience I think he has his priorities
    right. I would not let the cap M change the whole font. If you've got a good design
    idea, and OoHn right in accord with the idea, and interactively adjust those with
    aeg, and all is still good, then you've basically got a good font design. The
    diagonal letters are challenging, but they've been solved a lot of ways in the
    past, and its just up to you to make them work, given the rest of the font.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not saying that you shouldn't interactively massage everything as you go on, but
    as far as setting the look of the font the 'control letters' are generally the
    approach of experienced designers. For example, Erik Spiekermann basically drew
    only these for Meta Serif, and then asked Christian Schwartz to do the rest. Schwartz
    and Kris Sowersby did the rest, but just those few letters (which admittedly he
    took years to figure out, and finally only in discussion with Schwartz) are still
    maybe 50% of the new design ideas, though a small fraction of the many, many hours
    of work.  "
  created: '2008-03-12 13:23:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "William, you\u2019re right, but there\u2019s a big difference between the
    mistakes Messrs. Spiekermann and Montalbano might make and some of the really
    dumb stuff I do. They\u2019ve been at it long enough to draw the important characters
    and know that they\u2019ll work well with the rest of the alphabet; I\u2019m working
    on fonts 2 and 3 and just beginning to get the hang of this stuff."
  created: '2008-03-12 13:44:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "James, you have a point. Something I have found helpful is to compare what
    I am doing with two or three fonts of different design I have open at the same
    time--ones that I admire as being well done. And if you are having trouble with
    a letter, look at it in ten different fonts--in context with other related characters
    in all the fonts. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-12 14:42:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I\u2019ve sometimes wondered if it might make more sense to work with the
    unruly characters\"\r\n\r\nI have done that but not with the same set of \"unrulies\"
    as you mention. I think you first have to figure out what your intention is for
    the typeface. If it is a text face, the lowercase will probably dominate your
    decisions. You also have to work out the text density and efficiency ratio desired
    so you can determine x-height to cap height ratio. Testing problem children like
    double-bowl g and a with o and n to figure out weight can be enlightening learning
    experience. I am not saying this is a suggested way to approach a design, I am
    just saying I have started several typefaces in different ways and learned different
    things each time. My reasoning is not to find the most efficient way straight
    off but to learn as much as I can about the design process by doing lots of \"what
    if\" scenarios. My warning would read something like: \"Stunt performed by self-trained
    type designer. Don't try this at home, unless you are more interested in learning
    than finishing quickly\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-12 15:28:11'
- author:
    name: inde
    picture: 112647
  body: i will agree with FeeltheKern, i had designed one typeface some time ago and
    i was not satisfied with the result, afterwards i tryed out to make a new one,
    i used a lot of new elements and a lot of the elements of the previous font, the
    next font came out to be a great font and much appreciated (advent font). What
    i can say is that its all bout "reading" the wave, see what people need and project
    the design lines of the age, i dont disagree with the design of "old" typefaces
    fut i say we live in the future!.
  created: '2008-03-12 15:32:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I\u2019ve been learning what a PITA it is to draw a good sans W\"\r\n\r\nDrawing
    a sans may sound easier than a serif face but I don't believe it. Both have their
    challenges and, to me, are equally difficult.  With a serif face, the contrast
    difference gives you some wiggle room and the serifs fill in the holes for you.
    With a more monoline sans, the weight can clog up really quickly with a double-bowled
    \"g\" or a \"w\". To make a sans look simple and clean is far from simple.\r\n\r\n
    ChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-12 15:38:08'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "William\u2014where did you hear/read this:\r\n\r\n\"For example, Erik Spiekermann
    basically drew only these for Meta Serif, and then asked Christian Schwartz to
    do the rest. Schwartz and Kris Sowersby did the rest, but just those few letters
    (which admittedly he took years to figure out, and finally only in discussion
    with Schwartz) are still maybe 50% of the new design ideas, though a small fraction
    of the many, many hours of work.\" \r\n\r\n?\r\n\r\nJames\u2014how much of a font
    do *I* draw out by hand? About 0.5%. Is that useful?\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2008-03-13 02:49:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Kris, that was based on what I read on 'Unzipped', where there are some trial
    drawings by Spiekermann from 2001, on Typophile, on the FontFont site, etc. I'm
    sorry if I got it wrong. Please correct me!\r\n\r\nNice account of your Newzald
    on \"I love typography\". \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-13 03:31:52'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "William, all it says on the <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.be/details.php?entry=239\">Unzipped
    thread</a> is <em>In Erik\u2019s own words: \u2018I kept sketching it, but it
    sucked.\u2019</em> He didn't give Christian any sketches, but they have worked
    together on many projects already. Christian understands what Erik likes and Erik
    knows how to describe things to Christian. So to answer James's question\u2014it's
    possible to design a typeface not by drawing on paper, or in FL, but by talking.\r\n\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2008-03-13 04:43:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks, Kris. I should have re-read the Unzipped Thread rather than relying
    on memory. I guess I was remembering this: \"Initially Erik may make sketches
    or send rough files, but sometimes they just sit together and look at other stuff
    to say \u2018a bit like this, and a little like that, but not quite like that.\"
    I also remembered the sketches, and my memory put two and two together wrongly.
    As you say the thread makes clear that Christian and you were more active in the
    design at the idea stage, and then there were significant changes while drawing. "
  created: '2008-03-13 12:27:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2014it\u2019s possible to design a typeface not by drawing on paper,
    or in FL, but by talking.</em>\r\n\r\nIf a client, say a magazine art director,
    had commissioned the face, and said \"I want something that's a bit like Meta,
    with serifs\", and provided verbal direction during the development process, would
    you credit them as the designer? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-13 14:01:08'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Link to Kris\u2019 account of creating Newzald:\r\nhttp://ilovetypography.com/2008/03/12/newzald-moleskine-to-market/\r\nVery
    informative.\r\n\r\nNick, that would be like a movie credit:\r\n<cite>Written
    by Suchandso, based upon a play by Thisandthat, based upon a book by Anotherguy,
    based upon an original idea by Geniusfellow.</cite>\r\nGood ideas have many creators
    (designers).\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-03-13 15:18:50'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "William\u2014no worries mate! I had a feeling you'd accidentally mixed up
    you sources.\r\n\r\nNick\u2014is that a rhetorical question?\r\n\r\nBert\u2014thanks!\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2008-03-13 17:56:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"If a client, say a magazine art director, had commissioned the face, and
    said \u201CI want something that\u2019s a bit like Meta, with serifs\u201D, and
    provided verbal direction during the development process, would you credit them
    as the designer?\"\r\n\r\nPerhaps I would if they had also been the designer of
    Meta.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-13 19:13:07'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "To answer the original question: \"It Depends\"...If I am doing something
    very much based on handwriting or rough calligraphy, there will be lots more time
    drawing, or even writing, and much less time fiddling onscreen. There might be
    a big scanning/autotrace session in there too. For other more modular or mechanical
    designs there might be very little drawing and considerably more cutting and pasting.
    Many designs can't really be resolved without extensive proofing, now best done
    in the digitized state. So drawings might just be sketches that get digitized
    immediately.  \r\n\r\nKey characters do help you get the \"DNA\" as Matthew Carter
    has said in the Helvetica film. HOnh to start with for contrast and other basic
    things like bowl shape, serif length, x-height to cap ratio, etc. Then the letters
    that combine those: Db. Get the spacing of all these right and you're on your
    way. Add other letters that give more character and style info like ABEGRSabegv.
    Many of us have rushed to finish the whole alphabets, then the figures, then the
    italic, then then then, only to look at the original efforts months later and
    realize it was all garbage and has to be re-done from scratch. This is \"measure
    twice, cut once\", applied to type design. \r\n\r\nJames, I'm not sure how much
    it will help you to know the answer to this; everyone works a different way, and
    it's really the results that matter. There are terrible designs with hundreds
    of hours of fussy handcrafting, and wonderful designs that are almost just autotraced
    sketches. Each designer might use a dozen different techniques. If your technique
    shows, or you aren't in control of the tools, that will weaken the design. This
    is why some people stick to certain methods. But as you can see, there is a huge
    range of strategies, from telling someone else what you want, all the way to carefully
    hand-drawing every character at 500 point and specifying digitization points.
    Some people don't even do digital outline work themselves; they draw and have
    others digitize. Again, it's the results that matter. \r\n\r\nCaveat: I think
    a weak and flawed strategy is taking someone else's finished outlines and trying
    to modify them enough to call it original. Very few designers are capable of this;
    too often the telltale essential structure remains. For that matter, how many
    skilled designers would take this route, knowing the limited benefit it will bring?
    I don't necessarily make the same decisions about point placement or anything
    else that another designer would, so I find this a useless method.  It's somewhere
    between \"homage\" and \"knockoff\". "
  created: '2008-03-13 23:31:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2014is that a rhetorical question?</em>\r\n\r\nNot really, I don't
    think there's a simple answer. \r\nI've been in the position I described, and
    had the good fortune to be able to call the result my own face, rather than that
    of the person who commissioned it and gave it direction and personality, by the
    power of speech alone. But the face was not an adaptation, so I had more claim
    on authorship.\r\nI would be interested in your opinion.\r\n\r\nCarl, well put,
    I'm with you most of the way on that.\r\n\r\nOne thing I do note is that design
    themes in different typefaces may be best represented (or thorniest) in different
    groups of characters, so those are the characters you want to refine the theme
    on first. So for one face, much might depend on the way <em>r</em> and <em>a</em>
    fit together, whereas for another with interesting curves, it wouldn't be a good
    idea to leave binocular <em>g</em> till the end. This follows on from Carl's observation
    of how some letters tell you more about spacing, others about style, with some
    faces being predicated more on style, others more on spacing."
  created: '2008-03-14 08:07:43'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Right. Besides what Nick points out, we all know that certain shapes are
    just more fun to work on than others. They give character. It's hard to do the
    dry stuff first, and in certain cases it really is filler, or mechanical finish
    work. In some designs, the letter shapes don't need a lot of anguished finessing,
    it's spacing, or the joining scheme, or the terminal shapes that take all your
    time. \r\n\r\nI ought to have said this in parallel with my other comments: Every
    typeface is different. Combine that with the different methods and backgrounds
    of type designers and you have potentially unlimited new challenges, no matter
    how much experience you have. Every design I work on has something new to show
    me. And if I'm extending the character set of another designer's work, my decisions
    are influenced by that. So many variables! "
  created: '2008-03-14 17:38:04'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Nick\u2014<em>If a client, say a magazine art director, had commissioned
    the face, and said \u201CI want something that\u2019s a bit like Meta, with serifs\u201D,
    and provided verbal direction during the development process, would you credit
    them as the designer?\u2026I would be interested in your opinion.</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    depends. I prefer to put \"under direction from\u2026\" if that is truly the case.
    But Meta Serif was different as the direction came direct from Erik, the designer
    of Meta. It was verbal, sure, but it was more that enough! \r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2008-03-17 20:43:45'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> If a client, say a magazine art director, had commissioned.....\r\n\r\n\r\n.....an
    illustration?  Who's the illustrator \u2014 the art director? the artist -illustrator?
    \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n------------------\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/43264\">and
    read this</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-17 21:07:57'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Dear James,\r\n\r\nI have drawn typefaces by hand in my beginning years.\r\nThan
    I spent much time digitalizing analog typefaces (i.e. from hotmetal)\r\nNowadays
    I do not use handdrawn sketches at all.\r\nI am designing exclusively on monitor
    for my own faces\r\npassing from FontStudio to FontLab now.\r\n\r\nbest wishes\r\nStefan"
  created: '2008-03-19 09:35:46'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "The few typedesigns I have done up till now, all started on paper. Drawing
    the characters -- usually the whole alphabet, or most of it -- works much faster
    for me. I can quickly sketch out ideas, and then draw a more tidy version of it
    to scan and trace. I guess I could start directly with vectors, but it doesn't
    really work for me, because I can draw curves more naturally by hand. \r\n\r\nSo
    for me drawing it first is faster, more spontaneous, but I also just <em>like</em>
    drawing type! :)"
  created: '2008-03-19 19:35:44'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi Jelma!\r\n\r\nI do not quite agree with the thing you said about spontaneity.
    I think the truth lies on the contrary.\r\nAt least in my eyes. I can do the basics
    of a new design idea throughout an our or two (although it depends\r\nmuch on
    how inspiration is flowing) and then I work it over on monitor.\r\nThe problem
    with the Bezi\xE9rs (I believe) is that they really do not work good with analog
    form, i.e. interpreting\r\nit. So, too much painstaking work has to be done in
    that process and in the end it always weakens type in its\r\nidea and forms somehow
    - makes it become/look digital. \r\nSo I abbandoned (wrong spelling sorry;-) designing
    by hand completely although I love it definitely.\r\nI think we have 2 different
    worlds here colliding.\r\nFor me designing on monitor has become something comparable
    to \u201Cengraving\u201C.\r\nSounds funny but it is like directly forming type
    in the \u201Cmetal\u201D/material for which it is purposed in the end.\r\n(though
    not monitor but bezi\xE9rs) I try to cancel the step from analog to digital in
    my work.\r\nThough I sometimes envy you guys ;-)))\r\n\r\nSalute\r\nStefan"
  created: '2008-03-20 06:41:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"For me designing on monitor has become something comparable to \u201Cengraving\u201C.\r\nSounds
    funny but it is like directly forming type in the \u201Cmetal\u201D/material for
    which it is purposed in the end.\"\r\n\r\nI like that analogy, Stephan! It feels
    right. The only difference is that it is too hard to erase a mistake in an engraving,
    there is no \"undo\" command :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-20 13:29:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I think of it as \"sculpting\" letters, because you add a little, take away
    a little--as I guess you do with clay--until you like the look. \r\n\r\nSomewhere
    on another thread like this David Berlow said something like: whatever you do
    before hand, it doesn't start to count until it's on the computer screen. That's
    because Bezier curves tends to push you in certain directions, which are yours
    to use or contradict. Bezier curves are the medium you're working in. I can understand
    that in a script face, the hand *written* original might be much more important. "
  created: '2008-03-20 13:39:05'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "I think (honestly) that a lot of sketches that people use in advertising
    purposes or articles to show \"the creative progress\" are actually made up afterwards
    to sync the final design.\r\n\r\nHow about that?"
  created: '2008-03-21 09:16:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Goran, in advertising, anything that is going to be shown to the client is
    looked at and approved by a few different people. The creative director or art
    director may have some changes to suggest to the designer who made the sketch.
    If they have to go back to an old sketch that the client has not seen, I am sure
    that it gets reworked to put both the suggested solution and the ad agency in
    the best light. Could there be some revisionism in this process? Yes.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-21 13:21:07'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "Hi all,\r\n\r\nShinn says it all.\r\nIt was a long time ago I have used a
    french curve to draw... Most of what I do now is done in the computer. Even the
    sketchs. Is there a rule?\r\n\r\nHow about \"print and scan\". The curve is autotrace.
    For example: I have a \"Modern Italic N.o 20\" and it is a body six. I hand typeset
    it and print and scan the proof. Then retouch the thing in psd - may take a week
    to get it read to cast. \r\n\r\nThe adventures of the small printer to get a font!\r\n\r\nCheers\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-21 16:02:36'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: ohh... gdm it! I doubled the thing when revising "sketch"...
  created: '2008-03-21 16:03:34'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Stefan, while I can see what you mean, when I draw by hand I can make fluent
    curves with one move of my wrist. It's direct. When I do the same with b\xE9ziers,
    in my eyes, it is less spontaneous. You have to fiddle around with handles, nodes,
    points, and whatnot. You have to think about every move you do to make the line/curve,
    instead of drawing it subconsiously. If you know what I mean.\r\n\r\nI don't mean
    to say I hate b\xE9ziers, because I eventually always end up with them. Also,
    I see 'autotrace' mentioned here a couple of times. When I scan hand drawn type,
    I always trace them by hand. That way I try to interpret my drawing as closely
    as possible, but take the contraints of b\xE9ziers in account as well (instead
    of leaving this interpretation in the hands of the autotrace feature).\r\n\r\nAfter
    that, I go from there, and tweak and change the shapes. The end result might not
    resemble my original drawing that much, but I feel I am able to transfer my idea
    to paper and then to screen much better this way."
  created: '2008-03-21 17:08:10'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "But doing a \"finish\" by hand is by no means spontaneous. \r\n\r\nAfter
    getting the pencil drawing tight as it can be, its time to do the inking. Days
    of careful work, not thinking about designing, just thinking about creating that
    line as cleanly and perfectly as possible. Becoming a machine. Having to make
    the decision about the \"point of now return\". When it is more economical to
    start over than to do corrections. \r\n\r\nThen after the inking is finished it
    is time for the retouching. Will it be white and black paint? Or, my personal
    favorite, shooting films and scraping and painting the film positives and negatives.\r\n\r\nI
    spend years creating finished camera ready art with pen and ink, and I think drawing
    with beziers is about as spontaneous as it gets.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2008-03-21 22:15:16'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>But doing a \u201Cfinish\u201D by hand is by no means spontaneous.</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    maybe my choice of the word 'spontaneous' isn't right. English is not my native
    language. I just mean I don't have to think of anything else than the shape, when
    drawing by hand. There is no software or user interface I have to pay attention
    to, just the shape. Also, I never said any drawings I do are \"finished\", they're
    a mere starting point where I can quickly put down ideas.\r\n\r\n> <em>After getting
    the pencil drawing tight as it can be, its time to do the inking. Days of careful
    work, not thinking about designing,...</em>\r\n\r\nActually, when drawing something
    by hand, is when I can think about the design. I don't have to consider handles,
    or points on extrema, or anything which have to do with the technique or software,
    which are unimportant to the design itself. I do not ink my drawings, they are
    just semi-tight pencil drawings.\r\n\r\nEveryone his own. For me drawing it by
    hand first, works better. \r\nHats off to those who can draw immediately with
    b\xE9ziers, I guess. :)"
  created: '2008-03-21 23:33:20'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "This is an informative thread.  \r\n\r\nGiven my background in signage and
    screen printing, I'd planed to try cutting finished shapes in Rubilith or translucent
    vinyl if I were working by hand. Then, I'd only do the minimum number of shapes
    possible (even down to half an \"o\" if it is to be symmetrical) and then I'd
    scan and vectorize then finish the rest of on the computer. The computer is after
    all, just a glorified pencil but with the added benefits of a memory, the ability
    to replicate shapes. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-03-22 01:35:09'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "If you ever get a chance to see Dave Farey give a demonstration on stencil
    cutting, do not pass it up! \r\n\r\nDave, Frieda Sack and several others worked
    at Letraset cutting rubylith masters for the final artwork for the Letraset rub
    down lettering.\r\n\r\nAmazing skill."
  created: '2008-03-22 01:54:01'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026I\u2019d planed to try cutting finished shapes in Rubilith or
    translucent vinyl if I were working by hand.</cite>\r\n\r\nIIRC Adrian Frutiger
    often refines type by cutting it out with a scissors."
  created: '2008-03-22 02:57:11'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I still usually work out the basic concept of a font on paper first. It's
    faster and easier to figure out the proportions and feel and logic of the structure
    on paper. But I stopped doing final art on paper (or any other physical medium)
    over twenty years ago when I started working digitally. Learning to work with
    B\xE9ziers is no more difficult than learning to work with french curves, ellipse
    and circle templates, compasses, technical pens and all that, but it's infinitely
    more forgiving."
  created: '2008-03-22 03:59:33'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi William!\r\n\r\n>I think of it as \u201Csculpting\u201D letters, because
    you add a little, take away a little\u2014as I guess you do with clay\u2014until
    you like the look.\r\n\r\n>Somewhere on another thread like this David Berlow
    said something like: whatever you do before hand, it doesn\u2019t start to count
    until it\u2019s on the computer screen. That\u2019s because Bezier curves tends
    to push you in certain directions, which are yours to use or contradict. Bezier
    curves are the medium you\u2019re working in. I can understand that in a script
    face, the hand *written* original might be much more important.\r\n\r\nGreat!\r\nI
    will go deeper in this thread. Actually I am at work.\r\nTypedesign IS sculpturing
    infact.\r\nAnd Bezi\xE9r DO push things in their direction.\r\nSo you have to
    search ways to put spontaneity in THIS process,\r\ndirectly on the monitor.\r\n\r\nYes,
    Jelma, beeing spontaneous on monitor is very hard to achieve (just like\r\nthe
    art of engraving was) but it is possible after years of training.\r\n\r\nSomeone
    said what about the undo comand.\r\nIt is also a great evil! But thats another
    aspect to discuss..\r\n\r\nStefan\r\nsalutes all"
  created: '2008-03-27 11:29:26'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi all,\r\nand especially Jelma and James,\r\n\r\nI also spend years  retouching
    films of classic letter shapes ( I started then with Garamond, then Jenson and
    also Bodoni - the original one that was also used, I think, to make 72 of ITC
    Bodoni). It was and is a great joy to do so!\r\n\r\nIt required a lot of time
    but it was very satisfying more from a philosophic and maybe even meditational
    point of view.\r\nI have to admit I never really finished a usable typeface in
    that way. Yet, it buildt may grounds from which I live up \u2019til today.\r\nMy
    first Garmond letters (the Imprimerie one from Paris) were drawings with pencil
    (up to even 30 cm high) which I later inked on transparent paper (that I had glued
    on a sort of transparent acryl material to give it a body). Then I did Bodoni
    directly inking and scratching on film (20cm) to end up with scratching and inking
    with a folio pencil and cutter on very tiny films for Jenson (lower than 1cm)
    The later method - so far for the analog ones - seemed to be the best. The smaller
    you can get, the more successful your letter shapes are. And by the way, although
    there is discussions and theories and systems..we are still talking about shapes
    in the first line, don\u2019t we? ;-)\r\n\r\nThan came the computer and Bezi\xE9rs,
    shook my world.\r\nThe rest is to leave for another discussion (of how to treat
    Bezi\xE9rs) (and get to know Raph!)\r\nIt is all may time, that I spend now, to
    try and do researches of making shapes with that curves that do NOT look and feel
    like digital digital digital..\r\nAh, I think we used a wrong word with \u2018spontaneous\u2019
    think it was FEELING that we talked about. Am I right? ;-)\r\n\r\nSalute\r\nStefan\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-29 10:19:37'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>Ah, I think we used a wrong word with \u2018spontaneous\u2019 think
    it was FEELING that we talked about. Am I right?</em>\r\n\r\nI meant that there
    is no other concern than the line, curve or shape. E.g. no extrema, handles, control
    points and whatnot. :)"
  created: '2008-03-29 11:30:42'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Yes, I did understand, Jelma.\r\nIt was meant in a more general sense. ;-)\r\n\r\nYou
    catched the point but what happens when you translate your analog design into
    Bezi\xE9rs? That is the critical situation, I guess. No, I \u2018know\u2019.\r\nI
    do not mean by that that the designer will not be able to do a design that comes
    quite \u2018near\u2019 to what he wanted. The question is, are Bezi\xE9rs then
    able to keep his original FEELING of the form he found.\r\nThe even most minimal
    change can destroy everything. That is a fact, in my eyes at least.\r\nDigital
    and analog design are different from each other. I don\u2019t like to say, computer
    is just a tool.\r\nIt isn\u2019t. At least a tool that forces his user to do things
    that in original sense he didn\u2019t wanted to do.\r\nAnd in the worst case he
    doesn\u2019t even recognize the change it has made out of his design, of his shapes
    (that he drew spontaneously and with feeling/inspiration - call it as you like!).\r\n\r\nThat
    has to be discussed. At least among those who do not look on type in a purely
    intellectual way ;-)\r\nWhat the old fellows did was a craft. And in a craft automatically
    feeling and inspiration was envolved (it had to - if you think how tiny those
    sculptures were that the first engravers as Jenson did!!) Here we are talking
    about processes in the subconscious! That is the thrill.\r\nAnd, as you said,
    doing things - as I now formulated it (I think it is the same thing you meant)
    in the subconscious - it is far away from working with curves on the monitor.
    (at first)\r\nAnd so I once came to the conclusion to work from the start on monitor
    as the engraver did in metal (did they have sketches in the beginning? I speak
    of Jenson f.e.?) In a way to introduce subconscious processes again in a design
    method that in the end we are forced to manage. \r\n\r\nAfter all its only a theory,
    I know. And as someone said, maybe its without rules, at all...\r\n\r\nsalute\r\nStefan\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-29 13:02:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Stephan,\r\nYes, beziers have a mark that can be felt in the final product
    but so does every other tool ever used by man in history. The brush, the scribe
    the chisel, the brad-nibbed pen, the flexible pointed steel pen, the flat brush,
    the rubylith and exacto knife, the clay tablet, the papyrus, the stone, the etching
    plate, the steel punch, etc., have each left their mark on the final product.
    The truth is, between the flexibility of beziers and OpenType, there is far more
    possible now than ever with historic tools. Besides, no one is restricted from
    using historic tools if they wish. There is still some fine lettering cut in marble
    and granite to be found and superb calligraphy as well. I understand old masters
    like Zapf still work in traditional means and allow others to carry out the work
    to conclusion.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-29 16:38:36'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>The question is, are Bezi\xE9rs then able to keep his original FEELING
    of the form he found. The even most minimal change can destroy everything. That
    is a fact, in my eyes at least. Digital and analog design are different from each
    other.</em>\r\n\r\nNo, those changes caused by the technique are unavoidable.
    You're right.\r\n\r\nBut I feel I can get close enough to my pencil drawings.
    The changes that occur are not a problem: the characters change a great deal while
    working on the typeface anyway. Usually my semi-finished (digital) characters
    don't really look like my original drawings at all. Yet, I find it handy to have
    something to go by, when using b\xE9ziers. Maybe when I get even more used to
    working with b\xE9ziers, I get better at starting directly on screen...\r\nHowever,
    I like it that I don't have to sit at the computer to <em>design</em> the shapes
    themselves. I like to kick off my shoes, sit in a relaxing chair with a capuccino,
    and sketch out some ideas. :)"
  created: '2008-03-29 18:00:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I like to kick off my shoes, sit in a relaxing chair with a capuccino,
    and sketch out some ideas. :)\"\r\n\r\na man after my own heart :-)\r\n\r\nI do
    have my capucino shoeless at the computer though :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-29 18:54:42'
- author:
    name: shockomotive
    picture: 114581
  body: "I don't see why such a hard distinction should exist between drawing on paper
    or with bezier curves. \r\n\r\nParticularly because the two processes are not
    diametrical opposites but merely <strong>the process of giving shape to an idea</strong>
    that is executed with different tools. Great results can be achieved with both,
    like a good sketch can be done with a pencil, marker or even a wax crayon.\r\n\r\nOf
    course I would never deny that each method has got its very own feel to it. Sketching
    on paper just <em>feels</em> so much different on putting down the points, but
    I would never regard someone who prefers to work without paper as inferior to
    a sketching person.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I tend to draw up sketches first, model
    my characters in vectors afterwards, without actually scanning anything. Then
    I print out characters I am not satisfied with and touch them up with opaque white
    and black and a brush. I can't exactly say how, but the brush gives me excellent
    curve control. Then I apply changes to the vectors and repeat all of that for
    quite a while."
  created: '2008-03-30 13:20:25'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Jelma,\r\n\r\nthis Cappuccino argument ist damned good! ;-)\r\n\r\nI agree\r\nStefan"
  created: '2008-03-30 15:11:38'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: ">.. with a capuccino, and sketch out some ideas. :)\r\n\r\nPS Guess, that\u2019s
    why Bodoni did such excellent letters.. ;-)\r\n\r\nStefano"
  created: '2008-03-30 16:01:22'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>PS Guess, that\u2019s why Bodoni did such excellent letters.. ;-)</em>\r\n\r\nCapuccino
    for the win! ;)\r\n\r\nbtw, you're dropping the r in my name. :p"
  created: '2008-03-30 22:06:59'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Sorry!\r\n\r\nHere it is...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bild-1_5552.gif]"
  created: '2008-03-31 10:00:53'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Haha, thats great. :)
  created: '2008-03-31 12:09:01'
date: '2008-03-08 18:35:40'
node_type: forum
title: How much of a font do *you* draw out by hand.

---
