---
author:
  name: AndrewSipe
  picture: 109430
body: "Howdy Web gurus and masters of the code. I'm hoping to illicit a bit of direction
  from the masses on getting my web game in order.\r\n\r\nA few years ago, I designed
  a website, and only one website. It was a chaotic mess built mostly of images and
  HTML. It's still in use, but it's falling apart. (<a href=\"http://www.indivijewels.net\">view
  here</a>) <em>Sorry, about the front page, the client tried to make changes and
  messed it up something awful.</em> (This was not posted as a critique, just an example
  of my current level.) \r\n\r\nThis being my infant step into the wondrously humongous
  world of web, it was extremely overwhelming to me. I'm still frightened by web design,
  but understand that if I'm going to develop and expand as a designer, it's an important
  tool to have in my arsenal.\r\n\r\nThat's why I'm calling for help. I know that
  if I'm going to have a passing chance at web design, I'm going to need to understand
  more than making pretty images and some basic HTML. I also know I can't rely solely
  on my web development software to make designs that are both web friendly and work.
  So, I need to at least learn CSS, if I'm going to make a run at this.\r\n\r\nI'd
  like to find some literature (be it web based or hard copy) that gives a no-nonsense
  approach to the building blocks of web design. I don't want to learn advanced techniques
  until I understand the basics. Something that instills good markup and semantics
  would be also appreciated. \r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "The <a href=\"http://w3.org\">W3C (World Wide Web Consortium)</a> have a
    site that is a cornucopia of information, but it\u2019s a bit daunting in the
    beginning. Ok, very daunting.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.w3schools.com/\">W3
    School</a> are easier to approach and are aimed at <em>teaching</em>, rather than
    being a place to look up information.\r\n\r\nThere are literally thousands of
    books written on how to learn to code web design, and it\u2019s hard to give recommendations
    on specific titles\u2014try browsing through whatever your local library has and
    see which ones seem the best. Just make sure they\u2019re new, \u2019cause (X)HTML
    standards and mores have evolved quite a bit over the past few years.\r\n\r\nAnd
    there is of course always the time-honoured way of learning: go through the source
    code on Web sites you like and learn from their greatness.\r\n\r\nI would suggest
    that you first learn XHTML (don\u2019t bother with plain HTML, it\u2019s still
    supported, but is being phased out as a recommended standard) and CSS. These two
    are both fairly simple and straightforward to learn, since they\u2019re both markup
    languages. And of course learn them the right way to begin with: by using XHTML
    for structuring information, and CSS to control all layout.\r\n\r\nA very good
    place to get under the skin of CSS (not really to <em>learn</em> it, but to understand
    it on a deeper level) is the <a href=\"http://www.csszengarden.com\">CSS Zen Garden</a>.
    Click on some of the designs on the right and see the power of CSS\u2014the XHTML
    markup is precisely the same for all pages, only the CSS is changed.\r\n\r\nOnce
    you feel good and comfortable with XHTML and CSS, I\u2019d suggest learning some
    basic JavaScript and PHP. These two languages are the two most widely used ways
    of creating dynamic content and database interaction, at least in *NIX-based server
    environments. In Windows-based environments, ASP is probably more common than
    PHP, but I\u2019d learn PHP anyway, since it, unlike ASP, is platform-independent."
  created: '2008-03-10 14:32:27'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Take a class taught by a working web designer. Learning how XHTML/CSS actually
    do work (as opposed to how the W3C or designers want them to work) will make life
    a lot easier.\r\n\r\nWhen it comes to reference works, nothing beats <em>Web Design
    in a Nutshell</em> and <em>The Zen of CSS Design</em>.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-10 15:05:03'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>W3 School are easier to approach and are aimed at teaching, rather
    than being a place to look up information.</cite> Easier is best! \r\n\r\n<cite>There
    are literally thousands of books written on how to learn to code web design</cite>
    Ain't that the truth. I've looked at a lot of literature and websites over the
    past few years. It was always difficult to know what to look at and focus on though,
    since I don't have any formal web training outside of an HTML class I took 7 years
    ago. I didn't know about XHTML being the better mark up language, and I've only
    recently learned of the power of CSS, but not really how to implement it.\r\nI've
    read articles from http://www.digital-web.com, http://particletree.com/ and http://www.sitepoint.com/
    but a lot of the information just went over my head. \r\n"
  created: '2008-03-10 15:10:43'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: <cite>Take a class taught by a working web designer. Learning how XHTML/CSS
    actually do work (as opposed to how the W3C or designers want them to work) will
    make life a lot easier.</cite> This is ideal, but not realistic in my area. All
    the colleges/schools that offer web classes require enrollment. I can't just take
    them piece meal or as extended learning. I might be able to take a weekend seminar
    though my work, but I'm still waiting on approval from the higher-ups.
  created: '2008-03-10 15:14:42'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "Hi Andrew, when learning the wonders of CSS I found this site to be a nice
    resource: \r\n\r\nhttp://www.alvit.de/handbook/\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-10 15:20:03'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "I recommend this book: <a href=\"http://www.simplebits.com/publications/bulletproof/\"><em>Bulletproof
    Web Design</em> by Dan Cederholm</a>.\r\nEric Meyer\u2019s <a href=\"http://more.ericmeyeroncss.com/\">books
    on CSS</a> are very good for starters, too.\r\n\r\n<cite>learn XHTML (don\u2019t
    bother with plain HTML, it\u2019s still supported, but is being phased out as
    a recommended standard)</cite>\r\nI don\u2019t claim that this is wrong \u2026
    but it\u2019s a little bit like saying \u2018Don\u2019t learn InDesign \u2013
    learn InDesign <em>CS3</em>!\u2019. No? ;-)"
  created: '2008-03-10 15:22:04'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Florian, I've looked at all of those books. While they seem very rich in
    content, and I've heard nothing but praise from the community. They're way above
    my current skill level.\r\n\r\nNeil, that's a massive resource. I'll bookmark
    that for later scrutiny. "
  created: '2008-03-10 15:36:53'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABI don\u2019t claim that this is wrong \u2026 but it\u2019s a little
    bit like saying \u2018Don\u2019t learn InDesign \u2013 learn InDesign CS3!\u2019.
    No? ;-)\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nYou\u2019re right, that was sloppy wording. What I meant
    was of course that it is better to learn the HTML 4.01 Standard through the filter
    of the XHTML 1.0 specification, and to specify doctypes as XHTML, rather than
    HTML 4.01. :-)\r\n\r\nI\u2019m still a bit miffed that they decided to only publish
    the <em>change</em> in the XHTML 1.0 Specification, rather than the full thing.
    It\u2019s so tiresome having to go back and forth between the HTML 4.01 specification
    and the XHTML 1.0 specification to check if something still applies or has been
    amended in XHTML 1.0. Lazy bastards, they are."
  created: '2008-03-10 17:13:31'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>What I meant was of course that it is better to learn the HTML 4.01
    Standard through the filter of the XHTML 1.0 specification...</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    started going through the W3Shool on XHTML, and from I've gathered, it doesn't
    seem too much different from HTML, other than it's more strict in the actual coding.
    (which seems better practice anyway.) I've learned basic computer coding when
    I was in high school and you had to be strict or your functions wouldn't work
    right. XHTML goes the route of it's \"better to be safe, than sorry.\" Personally,
    I'd like to learn it that way, it gives more visual reasoning behind why a function
    (or in this instance an element) is set up, it would keep things more uniform
    and organized. Dot all my i's and cross all my t's. "
  created: '2008-03-10 17:36:13'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "That is precisely the difference: XHTML is stricter than HTML. Sloppy coding
    that worked in HTML (neglecting to close tags, using semi-proprietary or even
    fully proprietary tags, &c.) will not fly in XHTML\u2014at least not if you want
    your document to validate, which is always a good thing, though never a replacement
    for extensive browser testing."
  created: '2008-03-10 17:45:40'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "If we're in agreement, I'll take that as a good sign that I'm learning something.\r\n\r\nI
    finished the surprisingly short tutorial on XHTML (and got a 19/20 on the quiz),
    now I'll move onto the CSS tutorial.\r\n\r\nEventually, I'd like to take the site
    I posted originally and try recreating it using XHTML and CSS (it's all built
    in code from Dreamweaver MX). The site is simplistic enough that the transition
    shouldn't be too difficult (though I will probably have to rebuild all the pages.)\r\n\r\nI
    really appreciate all the input guys!  "
  created: '2008-03-10 17:56:24'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABEventually, I\u2019d like to take the site I posted originally
    and try recreating it using XHTML and CSS (it\u2019s all built in code from Dreamweaver
    MX).\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nAs you guess, that shouldn\u2019t be too hard, though you
    will have to rebuild every page, that\u2019s true. If nothing else, then at the
    very least to get rid of that horrendous light blue text on the beige background
    in the <code>:hover</code> state defined for the footer links. ;-)\r\n\r\nMight
    I suggest waiting until you\u2019ve grasped some basic PHP to redo the site, though?
    Or, alternatively, ask someone who does know some PHP to give you a hand. The
    <code>include()</code> function is, in my view, absolutely indispensable when
    making the menu system, since it enables you to define the menu in one single
    file and then simply include that file in every other page. That means that any
    site-wide changes to the menu system (or any other site-wide element, of course)
    can be changed once and then propagated to the entire site."
  created: '2008-03-10 18:31:11'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>If nothing else, then at the very least to get rid of that horrendous
    light blue text on the beige background in the :hover state defined for the footer
    links. ;-)</cite> I'm glad you pointed that out (is having a footer like that
    still necessary I wonder?) Honestly, I'm not a fan of the color scheme (it was
    selected by the client) and would love to change it. Hopefully with the addition
    of CSS this won't be too difficult to do in the future (if necessary at all.)
    \r\n\r\n<cite>Might I suggest waiting until you\u2019ve grasped some basic PHP
    to redo the site, though?</cite> Right now, I have no clue what value PHP offers
    to a website other than it's used in database coding. From what you're suggesting,
    it does sound like a valuable feature though. However, for this site I won't be
    too concerned about having to change the menu system (or the work involved in
    doing it manually for all the pages.) The client hasn't shown interest in investing
    in any major updates or a site wide overhaul at this point. I'm going to update
    it only to learn from it (since it's available, simplistic and finished.) \r\n\r\nEthically,
    I don't feel right charging the client to learn on their dime. If things go well,
    I'll equal out the time invested as an educational discount and sell the updated
    site to the client finished. Anyway, that's a discussion for another thread at
    a different time.\r\n\r\nIf you have suggestions on how I should start the update,
    I'm all ears."
  created: '2008-03-10 18:48:35'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "For the love of God, can we get BLOCKQUOTE on this damned system?> I know
    that if I\u2019m going to have a >\r\n> \tpassing chance at web design, I\u2019m
    going to need to understand more >\r\n> \tthan making pretty images and some basic
    HTML.\r\n\r\nBasic (i.e., Web-standards-compliant) HTML is <em>the most important</em>
    thing to know.\r\n\r\n> \tI\u2019d like to find some literature (be it web based
    or hard copy) that\r\n> \tgives a no-nonsense approach to the building blocks
    of web design. \r\n\r\nThe <a href=\"http://www.htmldog.com/book/\" title=\"By
    Griffiths\">HTML Dog book</a> will teach you basic semantics. <cite>Designing
    with Web Standards</cite> by Zeldman teaches separation of structure, presentation,
    and behaviour (HTML, CSS, and [usually] JavaScript, respectively). \r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \tThere are literally thousands of books written on how to learn to\r\n> \tcode
    web design, and it\u2019s hard to give recommendations on specific\r\n> \ttitles\r\n\r\nIt's
    very easy to give recommendations <em>against</em> certain titles, namely most
    of them.\r\n\r\n> Just make sure they\u2019re new, \u2019cause (X)HTML\r\n> \tstandards
    and mores have evolved quite a bit over the past few\r\n> \tyears.\r\n\r\nOnly
    the mores have evolved. The standards are fixed in stone, which is one of the
    problems. And the only evolution was from 1999 (tables and font tags) to 2000
    (Web standards). We are still in the Web-standards era even if some of your friends,
    and Microsoft users, think otherwise.\r\n\r\n> \tAnd there is of course always
    the time-honoured way of learning: go\r\n> \tthrough the source code on Web sites
    you like and learn from their\r\n> \tgreatness.\r\n\r\nDon\u2019t do that unless
    you know up front that the developer is a standardista. <em>Especially</em> don\u2019t
    do that for JavaScript.\r\n\r\n\r\n> \tI would suggest that you first learn XHTML
    (don\u2019t bother with plain\r\n> \tHTML, it\u2019s still supported, but is being
    phased out as a recommended\r\n> \tstandard)\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s false. XHTML has
    no advantages whatsoever for general Web sites and many disadvantages (e.g., a
    single capital letter in an element name makes your whole page invalid). HTML
    Strict is much more forgiving yet semantically identical to XHTML.\r\n\r\nXHTML
    is interpreted by browsers in all cases, save for XHTML 1.1 and XHTML 1.0 served
    with the right MIME type, as HTML with added slashes. Repeat: XHTML is not better
    than HTML. They are approximately the same thing.\r\n\r\n> These two are both
    fairly simple and\r\n> \tstraightforward to learn, since they\u2019re both markup
    languages.\r\n\r\nCSS is not a markup language.\r\n\r\n> \tA very good place to
    get under the skin of CSS (not really to learn\r\n> \tit, but to understand it
    on a deeper level) is the CSS Zen Garden.\r\n\r\nThe Zen Garden <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0321303474/joeclark-20/\"
    title=\"&lsquo;The Zen of CSS Design&rsquo;\">book</a> is a good visual place
    to start.\r\n\r\n> \tTake a class taught by a working web designer. Learning how\r\n>
    \tXHTML/CSS actually do work (as opposed to how the W3C or designers\r\n> \twant
    them to work) will make life a lot easier.\r\n\r\nThe way the W3C wants them to
    work is generally the way they do work in all browsers that aren\u2019t called
    Internet Explorer. While you were sleeping, Web standards took over.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \tYou\u2019re right, that was sloppy wording. What I meant was of course\r\n>
    \tthat it is better to learn the HTML 4.01 Standard through the filter\r\n> \tof
    the XHTML 1.0 specification, and to specify doctypes as XHTML,\r\n> \trather than
    HTML 4.01. :-)\r\n\r\nWrong in practice.\r\n\r\n> \tI\u2019m still a bit miffed
    that they decided to only publish the change\r\n> \tin the XHTML 1.0 Specification,
    rather than the full thing. It\u2019s so\r\n> \ttiresome having to go back and
    forth between the HTML 4.01\r\n> \tspecification and the XHTML 1.0 specification
    to check if something\r\n> \tstill applies or has been amended in XHTML 1.0. Lazy
    bastards, they\r\n> \tare.\r\n\r\nBecause next to nothing was invalidated. XHTML
    <em>is</em> HTML with self-closing tags, an all-lower-case requirement, quoted
    attribute values, and a small list of additional minor differences (like valid
    entity names, few of which come up in Unicode documents).\r\n\r\n\r\n> \tI started
    going through the W3Shcool on XHTML, and from I\u2019ve\r\n> \tgathered, it doesn\u2019t
    seem too much different from HTML, other than\r\n> \tit\u2019s more strict in
    the actual coding. \r\n\r\nThat\u2019s not entirely true. It's more accurate to
    say that HTML, even Strict HTML, is more permissive. For example, you can leave
    off <code>&lt;/p&gt;</code> in most cases, and many elements, even HTML and BODY,
    just aren\u2019t needed at all.\r\n\r\nNonetheless, you can write an HTML document
    (any flavour) with all its tags closed and all its attribute values quoted and
    all its element names in lower case. At that point, almost certainly the only
    difference between that an an equivalent XHTML document is self-closing tags.\r\n\r\n>
    \tThat is precisely the difference: XHTML is stricter than HTML.\r\n\r\nFalse.
    HTML and XHTML both have document-type definitions, i.e., both have rules. Transitional
    and Strict document types constitute another subset of rules.\r\n\r\n> \tSloppy
    coding that worked in HTML (neglecting to close tags, using\r\n> \tsemi-proprietary
    or even fully proprietary tags, &c.) will not fly\r\n> \tin XHTML\u2014\r\n\r\nFalse
    some of the time. There are many HTML elements that don't have to be closed, including
    P, LI, HTML, and BODY. <em>Only</em> the elements in the spec may be used for
    all HTML and XHTML documents, though technically you can define your own elements
    for XHTML. (Ask me about <code>embed</code> sometime.)\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe
    Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2008-03-10 18:57:01'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABFor the love of God, can we get BLOCKQUOTE on this damned system?\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nYes,
    please. Or at the very least set the <code>cite</code> elements properly apart
    from other text.\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n<cite>\xABOnly the mores have evolved. The
    standards are fixed in stone, which is one of the problems. And the only evolution
    was from 1999 (tables and font tags) to 2000 (Web standards). We are still in
    the Web-standards era even if some of your friends, and Microsoft users, think
    otherwise.\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nYou\u2019re right, of course. What I should have
    said was that mores and descriptions of the standards in web design books have
    changed, not the standards themselves. Even in books that are no more than three
    or four years old, it\u2019s not uncommon to see authors advising <em>against</em>
    using CSS properly and using tables to create layout.\r\n\r\nAnd what does \u201Csome
    of your friends\u201D refer to?\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n<cite>\xABCSS is not a markup
    language.\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nI wasn\u2019t aware of that. I thought stylesheet
    languages were considered a subset of markup languages, actually. What I meant
    by that comment, though, was that both (X)HTML and CSS have very simple and limited
    syntax components, compared to most scripting or programming languages.\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n<cite>\xABThe
    way the W3C wants them to work is generally the way they do work in all browsers
    that aren\u2019t called Internet Explorer.\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s a bit
    Utopian, isn\u2019t it? So far, to my knowledge, no other browser than Safari
    WebKit Nightly r30881 has even managed to reach the 90 per cent mark in the ACID3
    test. And even for simple, normal, validating XHTML pages, there are plenty of
    small bugs that creep up, though to be fair, some of those represent gaps in the
    specifications, rather than aberrant browser behaviour.\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n<cite>\xABWrong
    in practice.\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nHow do you mean, \u201Cin practice\u201D? It\u2019s
    still not worded very well, but I don\u2019t see why it\u2019s any more wrong
    in practice than in theory.\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n<cite>\xABBecause next to nothing
    was invalidated. XHTML is HTML with self-closing tags, an all-lower-case requirement,
    quoted attribute values, and a small list of additional minor differences (like
    valid entity names, few of which come up in Unicode documents).\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    doesn\u2019t mean the entire Recommendation shouldn\u2019t be available as a single
    document. Laws are constantly amended, small bits at a time, but that doesn\u2019t
    mean the original document should not be updated whenever such an update takes
    place. Most commonly, unfortunately, they are not; but that does not mean they
    shouldn\u2019t be.\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n<cite>\xABFalse. HTML and XHTML both have
    document-type definitions, i.e., both have rules.\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd the rules
    in XHTML impose more restrictions or demands on the layout of the document than
    the rules in HTML do, whether we\u2019re talking Strict, Transitional, or Frameset.
    I would call that being stricter, or more restrictive.\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n<cite>\xABFalse
    some of the time. There are many HTML elements that don\u2019t have to be closed,
    including P, LI, HTML, and BODY. Only the elements in the spec may be used for
    all HTML and XHTML documents, though technically you can define your own elements
    for XHTML.\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m not sure how that makes what I said false
    some of the time?\r\n\r\nBy \u201Cwork\u201D, I was referring to validation, not
    actual browser behaviour, which is of course a topic entirely divorced from validation.
    Failing to close a <code>p</code> tag in HTML will not cause the page not to validate;
    it will in XHTML. I don\u2019t consider that a disadvantage, by the way, in the
    same way that I don\u2019t consider JavaScript\u2019s permissiveness compared
    to many other scripting languages to be an advantage. If anything, the permissiveness
    is the disadvantage."
  created: '2008-03-10 20:19:33'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "XHTML doesn\u2019t say anything about \u201Cthe layout of a document.\u201D\_HTML
    doesn\u2019t, either.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2008-03-10 20:46:25'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "Well, what\u2019s a better word for it, then? The \u2026 physical shape?
    No. The way the document is built? No.\r\n\r\nThe word I\u2019m thinking of (which
    fits perfectly) is <em>udformning</em>, but I can\u2019t think of a proper English
    word for it, if there is one. Something like the way that each element in the
    whole of the document is expressed/typed/put. Or something.\r\n\r\nWhen typing
    an element in an XHTML document, there are tighter restrictions that must be adhered
    to than when typing an element in an HTML document. Thus, XHTML is more restrictive
    than HTML. That\u2019s the best way I can word it."
  created: '2008-03-10 21:05:05'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>udformning</cite>\r\n\r\nI suppose in Swedish this means more than
    just \"design\". "
  created: '2008-03-10 21:12:10'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "It doesn\u2019t mean anything in Swedish (where it would be <em>utformning</em>).
    ;-)\r\n\r\nBut in Danish, yes, it means more than \u2018design\u2019. In fact,
    it rarely means just \u2018design\u2019. It\u2019s more to do with the structural
    form, design, and order of the individual components that make up a larger whole."
  created: '2008-03-10 21:15:39'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"That is precisely the difference: XHTML is stricter than HTML. \"\r\n\r\nNot
    really. You can have strict OR loose HTML OR XHTML.\r\n\r\nXHTML is simply HTML
    that follows the XML standard. As for learning one or the other, there really
    isn't much of a difference. Most would argue that there's little point in using
    XHTML these days *unless* you have a specific need for your HTML to be XML compliant.
    \r\n\r\nBut, yea...in summary, the key to understanding any medium is to understand
    the tools and process. That'd be HTML and CSS to begin with. Add some Javascript,
    Flash and back end stuff to taste.\r\n\r\nI'd forgo a tech-school class. Most
    of them will teach you DreamWeaver and not really teach you HTML.\r\n\r\nIt's
    not rocket science...but it can take some time. As stated, the biggest hurdle
    will be fighting the Microsoft flavored web browser rendering engines (though
    with IE8 on the horizon, we may FINALLY be reaching a point where that's a moot
    issue in the next several years)."
  created: '2008-03-11 13:51:21'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Can someone answer this question then,\r\n\r\nIf HTML is the content on the
    page, and CSS is the style on that content, which controls the layout/location
    of that content? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-11 14:21:57'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABNot really. You can have strict OR loose HTML OR XHTML.\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nLike
    I already said, I wasn\u2019t referring to flavours.\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n<cite>\xAB(though
    with IE8 on the horizon, we may FINALLY be reaching a point where that\u2019s
    a moot issue in the next several years)\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nI wish I shared your
    positivism, but I fear a, \u201CKeep dreaming\u201D is more in order.\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n<cite>\xABIf
    HTML is the content on the page, and CSS is the style on that content, which controls
    the layout/location of that content?\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nHow do you mean?"
  created: '2008-03-11 15:01:43'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>If HTML is the content on the page, and CSS is the style on that content,
    which controls the layout/location of that content?</cite>\r\n\r\nCSS does. It
    can be used to \u2018style\u2019 elements \u2013 to specify colours, fonts, borders,
    background-colours, background-images, all kinds of typographic formatting etc
    pp.\r\nBut you can also arrange the elements with CSS \u2013 define the size,
    the margins, the padding, whether they are \u2018inline\u2019 or \u2018block\u2019
    (whether they trigger a new line or not), even the exact position within the viewport.\r\nDoes
    that answer your question?\r\n\r\nF"
  created: '2008-03-11 15:11:00'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>\xABIf HTML is the content on the page, and CSS is the style on that
    content, which controls the layout/location of that content?\xBB\r\n\r\nHow do
    you mean?</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is what's really confused me about web design, the
    actual visual layout of the data and how the code controls that layout. The WYSIWYG
    end of web design. I know I can set up a row of images and buttons and text boxes
    with HTML, but apparently (from what I've gleaned) it's better to do it in CSS,
    which could change the layout on the fly if need be. So, from a visual design
    perspective, understanding CSS would be more beneficial than HTML. Correct?"
  created: '2008-03-11 15:17:43'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABI know I can set up a row of images and buttons and text boxes
    with HTML, but apparently (from what I\u2019ve gleaned) it\u2019s better to do
    it in CSS, which could change the layout on the fly if need be. So, from a visual
    design perspective, understanding CSS would be more beneficial than HTML. Correct?\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    still not entirely sure what you mean. You can\u2019t understand only <em>either</em>
    HTML <em>or</em> CSS. Well, you can, of course, but it won\u2019t do you much
    good.\r\n\r\nIn your example, you would define a sequence of images, buttons,
    and text boxes in HTML. In HTML, you would specify at which logical point in the
    undisrupted flow of the document each of these elements comes, as well as the
    source of the images, whether the buttons were selected by default, and whether
    any text appears in the text boxes when the page is loaded.\r\n\r\nAfter you had
    done this, you would create a CSS file that contains information on how these
    elements should be presented: should the images have borders, what should the
    background colour of the text boxes be, should they all appear on one long line
    or each with their own line, &c."
  created: '2008-03-11 15:31:56'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "I think Asvetic has identified a key point on the web design learning curve
    here, and one that colleagues and I have had problems with. This is how I see
    many individuals grasp of HTML/CSS develops (I'm writing quickly between jobs
    so hope it makes sense):\r\n\r\nOne discovers early on that writing HTML *does*
    determine both layout and appearance of a document - because browsers have inbuilt
    stylesheets, invisible to the user, thus ways of rendering it.\r\n\r\nThis confuses
    right from the start by conflicting with the \"correct\" model of HTML being purely
    structural.\r\n\r\nRe Oisin above, the buttons, images and text would show up
    in the right place on screen with no use of CSS at all.\r\n\r\nCSS is then found
    to be a  convenient way of globally specifying fonts and colours, maybe margins,
    but not much more - it's a fairly superficial layer which *adds* to the appearance
    of plain HTML.\r\n\r\nPeople often find that more complete uses of CSS fail to
    render as they expect, so abandon further experimentation. For example, trying
    to lay out complex forms. Or when trying to put together an HTML email. Tables-for-layout
    work better for both, so are seen as a reliable method, and the individual's understanding
    of the HTML+CSS model stalls - this is why they are sometimes seen as alternatives.\r\n\r\nI
    think use of 'reset' stylesheets can help with this by eliminating the inbuilt
    browser styling.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-11 16:04:23'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "So a better analogy could be HTML is the skeleton, nervous system, and all
    the organs (where they're located mostly) and CSS is the skin and hair and color
    of the organs and blood. Depending on how the HTML is set up, I could have a foot
    where my hand is, and a heart where my brain is. CSS doesn't control this, but
    it controls how tan my skin is and how far set my eyes and ears are. \r\n\r\nHTML
    is the broad layout, and CSS is the nudged version of that layout. And if I create
    the website with this in mind, HTML, then CSS... that would render a more exact
    visual design."
  created: '2008-03-11 16:22:02'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Print design is you take the content, and visually lay it out on the page.
    You end up with a single piece in the end.\r\n\r\nWeb design is you take the content,
    format it so it's *meaningfullly* organized, and then you lay it out/style it
    for a particular display.\r\n\r\nIn otherwords, the 'content' of HTML may be used
    in many different ways, so it's important that it has some structure and meaning
    to it 'in the raw'.\r\n\r\nFor example, it may be shown in a visual web browser
    on your computer. It might be read to someone via an aural web browser. Some folks
    might parse the content sans any style. Someone might view it via their handheld
    device. Someone might be programmatically accessing the raw content (ie, google).\r\n\r\nIt's
    a bit like architecture. You can't 'WYSIWYG' a house plan very efficiently. Unless
    you dive into the framing and plumbing and elecrtical BEFORE you start randomly
    laying out rooms and picking out wallpaper, it won't be a very efficient product
    in the end.\r\n\r\n\"One discovers early on that writing HTML *does* determine
    both layout and appearance of a document - because browsers have inbuilt stylesheets,
    invisible to the user, thus ways of rendering it.\"\r\n\r\nThat's not the HTML
    determining that. That's that one particular web browser's default rendering of
    the HTML. I think you're saying the same thing, but be careful stating it's the
    HTML making that decision (as you state, it's the browser's built in style rendering).\r\n\r\n\"So
    a better analogy could be HTML is the skeleton, nervous system, and all the organs
    (where they\u2019re located mostly) and CSS is the skin and hair and color of
    the organs and blood.\"\r\n\r\nIt's hard to find a specific analogy that works
    well for this, but if I had to try:\r\n\r\nHTML = the movie script\r\nCSS = directing,
    cinematography, acting, set design, etc.\r\n\r\n\"HTML is the broad layout, and
    CSS is the nudged version of that layout.\"\r\n\r\nNo, HTML is the pure content.
    CSS is the rest.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-11 16:36:34'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Geez, we're getting to far off the path. I understand that designing for
    web isn't like designing for print. Prints more absolute, what you see IS what
    you get. Where designing for web, you can put the elements into places and hope
    that the format of your code keeps them there, but depending on who views it that
    will most certainly change. There are too many variables to create a single definite
    design and expect it to stay that way.\r\n\r\nIt's something to keep into consideration
    when creating a design, but I just want to learn how to recreate my vision in
    web media. The syntax and the semantics of web design go over my head like low
    flying aircraft.\r\n\r\nSorry, I appreciate you guys running with the ball, but
    I have to pull the reigns in on this thread, you're loosing me. "
  created: '2008-03-11 16:45:29'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> If HTML is the content on the page, and CSS is the style on that content,
    which controls the layout/location of that content?\r\n\r\nActually, the hardest
    part of a web designers job is to realize that the user controls much more than
    the designer does (in the true spirit of HTML).\r\n\r\nThe user decides the size
    of the page, always. He can change the size of the window, and gets to choose
    what resolution the monitor is at.\r\n\r\nThe user gets to decide on the size
    of the type, ideally (if the designer is savvy enough to use ems, % or another
    scalable size, and not fixed dimensions like points or pixels.) Some people need
    larger type to read clearly they should be able to do so with the browser controls
    that allow for larger type.\r\n\r\nThe user can even control the default typeface,
    which is pretty terrifying to the print designer. If I want my default sans to
    be Comic Sans, and my default serif to be Algerian, I should be able to do so
    (although I would probably be able to be certified insane for doing so). Then
    all I have to do is get rid of the rest of the fonts on my system to see all your
    pages in their prime ugliness.\r\n\r\nLearning these limitations exist, and then
    learning to design around them are the hardest parts of making the jump from print
    to web."
  created: '2008-03-11 17:06:42'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABThen all I have to do is get rid of the rest of the fonts on my
    system to see all your pages in their prime ugliness.\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nOr use
    a browser that allows user styles to override page styles, so that <em>all</em>
    text on any page on the Internet is rendered in Comic Sans or Algerian.\r\n\r\nAnd
    <em>then</em> you can scoot right along to the insane asylum, \u2019cause that
    would drive anyone up the walls in a day."
  created: '2008-03-11 17:12:07'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"It\u2019s something to keep into consideration when creating a design,
    but I just want to learn how to recreate my vision in web media. The syntax and
    the semantics of web design go over my head like low flying aircraft.\"\r\n\r\nWell,
    you might be loosing us too. Is your aim to learn the syntax and semantics? If
    not, then the best way to 'recreate your vision' is to team up with someone that
    can do that back end stuff for you. Might be the least painless/most effective
    path. I do that for a handful of very talented print/visual designers that just
    didn't have the need/want to dive into the back end space.\r\n\r\nOtherwise, if
    you do want to learn the syntax and semantics, I'd suggest looking at it from
    a slightly different angle. Get the semantic content down/in-place first (the
    HTML) and then build your vision from that. \r\n\r\nIn otherwords, don't start
    with the photoshop mock-up. Start with the content.\r\n\r\n\"Actually, the hardest
    part of a web designers job is to realize that the user controls much more than
    the designer does\"\r\n\r\nYep. My favorite way to explain it:\r\n\r\nprint design
    = you dictate the visual design\r\nweb design = you're just suggesting a visual
    design\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-11 18:10:40'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: "This should help to put all of the above into perspective:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/design1_6444.jpg]"
  created: '2008-03-11 19:09:41'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>Well, you might be loosing us too. Is your aim to learn the syntax
    and semantics? If not, then the best way to \u2019recreate your vision\u2019 is
    to team up with someone that can do that back end stuff for you. Might be the
    least painless/most effective path. I do that for a handful of very talented print/visual
    designers that just didn\u2019t have the need/want to dive into the back end space.</
    cite>\r\n\r\nI want to learn, I want to understand the developer's end. Knowing
    the capabilities of web design will help me make decisions within a design. I'd
    be designing smarter. \r\n\r\nEvery now and then I get into these web learning
    kicks, and every time I get overwhelmed and eventually loose interest/focus. The
    unstructured approach and not knowing where to start doesn't help either. I figure
    if I can learn and create sites with the basic understandings of the web, then
    adding to that would be natural. I was hoping I'd get responses from people that
    went through what I'm going through and would respond with their experiences/suggestions.
    \r\n\r\nI appreciated the replies. When Janus suggested learning XHTML would be
    a better approach then learning the more forgiving and looser HTML 4, I thought
    that was a wise suggestion... then the debates started.\r\n\r\nPerhaps I should
    have asked a question like this: \r\n<strong>If YOU had to teach someone how to
    do web design/development, what would your teaching outline look like? Where would
    you start and what would come next?</ strong>\r\n\r\nRegardless, I'm going to
    follow the HTMLdog tutorials. It's definitely shorter (and less overwhelming)
    than the books I've seen. Hopefully, by the end of the tutorials I'll understand
    enough HTML and CSS to be able to take my original site and rebuild it (or at
    least optimize the code better.)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-11 19:19:01'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "I did teach HTML, for about 10 years. I always started with a course in HTML,
    hard coding with Notepad (or the Mac text editor of your choice). CSS was a second
    course, and then, after the students knew code, they were introduced to Dreamweaver
    and FrontPage (this was back when the latter had a trace of relevance.)\r\n\r\nWithin
    the HTML portion, we spent considerable time building pages that were dynamic
    ... in other words, they would be workable at any size then current (640x480 was
    the minimum at that time, and later 800x600 was the minimum). The max was what
    the monitors at any time would take. I remember changing the screen background
    image so that it contained boxes of 640x480 and 800x600 as well as full screen
    so that the students would reduce their browser windows to those dimensions to
    see how the page would look to folk with older computers.\r\n\r\nThe other big
    concern I remember at that time was that pages had to work correctly in both the
    current IE and Netscape (today it would be IE and Firefox). The only other browser
    at that time with much share was Opera, but such a small usage that it could be
    safely ignored.\r\n\r\nOne thing I didn't do at that time, that I would now, is
    to insist on validated code. Anyone wanting to submit invalid code would have
    to supply me with an essay explaining why the end results justified the invalid
    code."
  created: '2008-03-11 19:28:17'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: <cite>Anyone wanting to submit invalid code would have to supply me with an
    essay explaining why the end results justified the invalid code.</cite> What would
    invalid code be considered, is that the same as deprecated code?
  created: '2008-03-11 19:37:09'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"If YOU had to teach someone how to do web design/development, what would
    your teaching outline look like? Where would you start and what would come next?\"\r\n\r\nGood
    question.\r\n\r\nNot an entire course, but specifically the process to build an
    HTML page:\r\n\r\n1) Get the content. All of it. \r\n2) How to mark it up with
    HTML in a semantic manner and talk about issues like SEO and Accessibility.\r\n3)
    How to layout out the page structure via CSS (and adding the necessary additional
    HTML as needed).\r\n4) How to now bring your visual layout (photoshop mockup)
    into the mix.\r\n5) Polishing it all up adding the images, typography, color,
    to the CSS file.\r\n6) Now let's talk about why it looks like crap in IE and how
    to fix it. ;o)\r\n\r\n\"What would invalid code be considered, is that the same
    as deprecated code?\"\r\n\r\nInvalid code is code that doesn't validate:\r\n\r\nhttp://validator.w3.org/\r\n\r\nThe
    closest analogy I can think of is pre-press flight checking.\r\n\r\nDeprecated
    code is usually something that has been replaced with something 'newer and better'
    though the 'better' part can often be debated. ;o)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-11 20:00:07'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite> \"1) Get the content. All of it.\" </ cite>\r\nCheck\r\n\r\n<cite>
    \"2) How to mark it up with HTML in a semantic manner and talk about issues like
    SEO and Accessibility.\" </ cite>\r\nI think I understand the idea of semantic
    coding (it's using the simplest code elements to describe the content). I don't
    know what SEO is. Accessibility is coding for the disabled right, like putting
    in descriptions for images?\r\n\r\n<cite> \"3) How to layout out the page structure
    via CSS (and adding the necessary additional HTML as needed).\" </ cite>\r\nThis
    is what I'd really like to learn.\r\n\r\n<cite> \"4) How to now bring your visual
    layout (photoshop mockup) into the mix.\" </ cite>\r\nI assume this is where Dreamweaver
    comes into play.\r\n\r\n<cite> \"5) Polishing it all up adding the images, typography,
    color, to the CSS file.\" </ cite>\r\nAgain, understanding CSS is still a major
    hurdle for me.\r\n\r\n<cite> \"6) Now let\u2019s talk about why it looks like
    crap in IE and how to fix it. ;o)\" </ cite>\r\nThe FEAR is almost crippling.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-11 20:14:32'
- author:
    name: acnapyx
    picture: 113394
  body: "SEO=Search Engine Optimization.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-11 20:44:17'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I think I understand the idea of semantic coding (it\u2019s using the simplest
    code elements to describe the content).\"\r\n\r\nIt's more about using the proper
    markup.\r\n\r\n\"I don\u2019t know what SEO\"\r\n\r\nSemantic markup  can help
    with Search Engine rankings.\r\n\r\n\"Accessibility is coding for the disabled
    right\"\r\n\r\nIt's a bit broader than that. It's more about making sure your
    content is accessible by a wide range of people and devices. But, in a nutshell,
    yes, it's related to things like the ADA.\r\n\r\nUltimately, it sounds like you
    really just need to start diving into CSS. Here's some good  books on it:\r\n\r\nhttp://simplebits.com/publications/"
  created: '2008-03-11 20:51:40'
- author:
    name: bvfonts
    picture: 109983
  body: I like the Tizag Tutorials http://tizag.com/ Most tutorials confuse me even
    more but these are so easy to follow. -Jess
  created: '2008-03-12 18:53:11'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> What would invalid code be considered, is that the same as deprecated code?\r\n\r\nBasically,
    there are times that invalid code makes sense, perhaps in relation to javascript
    or other tools. I remember the W3 validator refusing to accept a link that was
    used on a site (due to the ? and # stuff within in). The sys admins were quite
    happy with their invalid links, and a mere designer could not force them to change
    their minds.\r\n\r\nMy goal as a teacher is (was?) to make the student validate
    the code, and correct anything that can be corrected. But in some cases invalid
    code is needed. I was trying to create designers, not autocrats.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-12 20:02:07'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: microspective, that chart speaks right out of my heart!
  created: '2008-03-13 16:06:15'
- author:
    name: ofisia
    picture: 128351
  body: "I was just like you two years ago, Asvetic. Back then, I used to save web
    pages a lot so i can analyse the source code (both html and css) locally. And
    looking at CSS ZenGarden is a must at that time.\r\n\r\nSo, my advice is: save
    web designs that you think awesome, then try to imitate it (it's normal for beginners).
    You'll learn faster when you like it. Of course, always keep \"the manual\" at
    hand so you can quickly find out about unfamiliar tags.\r\n\r\nThen, just exercise
    often. Try designing from scratch (writing code by hand) without Dreamweaver's
    scripting aid.\r\n\r\nActually, I'm still just like you. Still learning about
    the new features of CSS3. :-)"
  created: '2008-03-14 00:13:42'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I find that it is not much different than how type was spec'd back in the
    olden days of yore. You have your type-written page of text, with notes written
    on it about how wide the columns are to be, what kind and size of font, what kind
    of alignment, etc.\r\n\r\nWith HTML and CSS, the HTML is the typed out page of
    text, and the CSS is the notes telling the browser how to set it.\r\n\r\nEasy
    as that."
  created: '2008-03-14 07:04:01'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Don McCahill\u2019s post about the occasional need for invalid code is incorrect
    (save for embed, which you can make valid by XHTML) and can be safely ignored.
    In fact, the only way to stay safe <em>is</em> to ignore it.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe
    Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2008-03-16 13:38:52'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "This weekend, I had a good buddy (and webhead) walk me through a simple CSS
    layout. He used the [http://csstinderbox.raykonline.com/?page_id=12] center box
    template to help illustrate things.\r\n\r\nThings are starting to make more sense
    to me now. I'm definitely a visual learner, so this walk-through was a major eye-opener.
    He used a program called CODA to help illustrate things better, sadly it's a MAC
    only program (I use a PC). I think I understand div and class better and he illustrated
    padding, margin and borders, explaining the Box Model more clearly. I loosely
    equated it to the stroke palette in illustrator.\r\n\r\nSurprisingly, he didn't
    know that you could use em and % for padding and margins. This was an easy concept
    for me to understand (thanks to understanding EM and EN widths in type). However,
    we're not sure what the base is, or what 100% or 1em is equal to. (I assume it's
    the browser's default text size, which is usually Medium/ 16 pt/px, right?) I
    do recall reading something about if a container is in another container, then
    that is the new base. This concept sounds confusing, especially if there are several
    layers of containers.\r\n\r\nNow all I need to learn is how to add rounded corners
    and rollover buttons that are CSS adapted, and I should be able to redo that website."
  created: '2008-03-17 14:53:23'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>I\u2019m definitely a visual learner, so this walk-through was a major
    eye-opener.</cite>\r\n\r\nThese two Firefox add-ons will make your learning even
    easier:\r\n<a href=\"https://addons.mozilla.org/de/firefox/addon/1843\">Firebug
    by Joe Hewitt</a> and <a href=\"https://addons.mozilla.org/de/firefox/addon/60\">Web
    Developer by Chris Pederick</a>.\r\nStrongly recommended. :-)"
  created: '2008-03-17 15:06:51'
- author:
    name: ofisia
    picture: 128351
  body: "Actually, you can easily found tons of CSS tutorials scattered on the internet
    these days. But maybe you might want to browse A List Apart's archives for articles
    like <a href=\"http://www.alistapart.com/articles/howtosizetextincss\">this one</a>.\r\n\r\nIn
    addition to the above Firefox add-ons, I also used <a href=\"https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/4111\">this</a>
    and <a href=\"https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/2104\">this</a>.\r\n\r\nGlad
    you're doing well Asvetic. :)"
  created: '2008-03-17 20:15:57'
date: '2008-03-10 13:56:23'
title: Webheads - A Call for Help

---
