---
author:
  name: victor ivanov
  picture: 111726
body: "Hi fellow type addicts.\r\n\r\nI am doing a Research Project for my honors
  in Communication Design and I am interested in looking closely at some typefaces,
  and the messages they carry. After watching \"typomania\" from Erik Spiekermanns
  blog, I have become rather interested in the subject, investigating  the kind of
  message a certain type style carries. \r\nI am wondering if you can help me for
  a list of some decent research material for this topic, be it articles, videos,
  pdfs, books etc.\r\n\r\nThanks in advance!"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Have you watched <a href=\"http://www.helveticafilm.com/\">Helvetica?</a>
    There may not be a better work on this topic. Kai Bernau\u2019s thesis <a href=\"http://www.letterlabor.de/book.php\">Neutral</a>
    is also a great read on this subject, albeit in a very roundabout way. "
  created: '2008-03-11 00:26:21'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: There's been a great deal written and spoken in the last few months about
    the typefaces chosen by the US presidential candidates. Obama has received a great
    deal of praise from the design-world for his consistent use of Gotham, whereas
    Hillary Clinton's identity has been seen as very old-fashioned. It might be an
    interesting starting point to think about how a typeface can help or hinder someone
    running for political office.
  created: '2008-03-11 01:56:29'
- author:
    name: victor ivanov
    picture: 111726
  body: "Thanks James, I'll see if I can find Helvetica in local stores or at library.\r\nUnfortunately
    I don't have a credit card, so limited to in-store purchases/library.\r\n\r\nFeeltheKern
    : do you have any links to those discussions? \r\n"
  created: '2008-03-11 02:54:15'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Vic:\r\n\r\nThese threads contain discussions on presidential branding, as
    well as links to discussions on other blogs (found by googling \"Obama\" on typophile):\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/31338\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/42054\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/40583\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/35349\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-11 03:28:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Certainly, typefaces tell design professionals something, but they have no
    inherent meaning for the non-professional reader, who only notices the most broad
    distinctions of genre, such as <a href=\"http://www.shinntype.com/Writing/Scriptom.pdf\">scripts/a>.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-11 05:30:56'
- author:
    name: victor ivanov
    picture: 111726
  body: "Thanks for all the input!\r\n\r\nNick, do you not think that type of different
    styles has different connotations, in regards to the nature of the product it
    is placed on."
  created: '2008-03-11 05:53:56'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: I definitely agree with Nick that most people aren't going to be able to tell
    Univers from Helvetica, or even Garamond from Times New Roman. The general population
    doesn't think too much about type, but has an innate feel for its various connotations.
    With Nick's script example, I'd say your average person could break scripts down
    into smaller groupings -- fancy wedding scripts, handwritten cursive, 50s brush
    scripts -- but wouldn't be able to talk much about the finer points of what differentiated
    them. And if you asked them to look at a bunch of fonts that all qualified as
    ornate Spencerian scripts, or "wedding scripts," they'd have a hard time telling
    the difference. Almost everyone would have no trouble picking out their favorite,
    though -- very few could articulate why, but that never prevents people from having
    strong opinions.
  created: '2008-03-12 08:15:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick, do you not think that type of different styles has different connotations,
    in regards to the nature of the product it is placed on.</em>\r\n\r\nNo, not for
    the reader.\r\nBut it does have connotations for the typographer, which provide
    ideas for the way in which the type may be set, and the layout arranged, interacting
    with the other elements.\r\nIt's only when all the design variables are determined
    that the piece as a whole acquires a meaning that can effect the reader.\r\n\r\nFor
    instance, the same typeface may look old-fashioned or trendy, depending on what
    kind of a project its used in, and how it's set.\r\nA typeface that looks friendly
    and inviting can become menacing, by increasing its size and reducing its leading,
    or changing its colour or tone.\r\n\r\nIf typefaces have \"product connotations\",
    how is it that so many typefaces can be used for many different kinds of products
    and readerships? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-12 11:59:20'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: Pieces of clothing is a good analogy. Some of them have connotation within
    context only, and some of them (more "extreme", creating a very specific association)
    even without context.
  created: '2008-03-12 12:32:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "But what about, for instance, the very \"extreme\" type form of blackletter?\r\nWhat
    connotation does that have without context?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-12 20:49:50'
- author:
    name: victor ivanov
    picture: 111726
  body: "well, what about logos/corporate identity?\r\nfor instance, if you were to
    create a visual style system for an established business, like an old winery for
    instance? I personally would consider using a typeface that has a Roman feel to
    it, something with serifs that resembles old inscriptions. \r\nHowever when thinking
    about fashion magazine, i would consider something modern, perhaps something that
    resembles bodoni.\r\nIs it just me?\r\nAnd if that is true, what would you suggest
    i research, in order to become more obsessed with type, and gain a greater knowledge
    of it?\r\n\r\nthanks"
  created: '2008-03-12 22:17:32'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: Blackletter might be an interesting case study, because it has so many different
    meanings throughout history. I doubt medieval monks ever imagined blackletter
    would be co-opted by LA thugs. While it has all these different connotations,
    there might a running thread of things that are very serious, like words that
    you want to present before the eyes of god -- in this way, an illuminated Bible
    is similar to a "thug life" tattoo, because they're all about being "official."
  created: '2008-03-12 22:28:52'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "There was a magazine designer who spoke at a journalism design conference
    that I went to. He created something like 20 different thought bubbles with the
    word \"hello\" in them.\r\n\r\nWhen set in 20 different typefaces, they all had
    enough personality to tell what the speaker's \"voice\" was. This one is a 16-year-old
    girl, this one is a sophisticated French woman, this one was an athelete, and
    so on.\r\n\r\nAdmittedly, most were \"display\" faces, but the same principle,
    I feel, works its way all the way down to the text faces.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-12 22:39:20'
- author:
    name: Scalfin
    picture: 114154
  body: 'You know, while the average reader won''t know what distinguishes a 70''s
    typeface, they sure as hell can spot one. That''s the thing: the average reader
    will get a feel for the lettering the same way we can quickly tell how heavy something
    is going to be.'
  created: '2008-03-13 01:58:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Being able to describe a difference accurately and being affected by a difference
    are two different things. While I will certainly concede that the non-type professional
    \ reader will not be able to describe much about differences in type, they may
    still be affected by it and not perceive why. The type is just part of the whole
    communication piece. The type's success or failure to take part in the communication
    is subject to how well the whole job was done, writing, concept, layout, placement,
    delivery method, and audience. The skill of the graphic designer or typographer
    will make or break it. If you have great tires on a racecar that breaks down in
    a race you won't win or even know if the tires would have done their job well.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-13 02:18:35'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I think Nick is right about context. You can put a 1970's typeface in a modern
    setting and it implies something very different than if you set in in a \"period\"
    piece.\r\nOn another level from my reading here I understand that the best text
    faces are invisible. They don't speak, they whisper.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-03-13 03:35:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Admittedly, most were \u201Cdisplay\u201D faces, but the same principle,
    I feel, works its way all the way down to the text faces.</em>\r\n\r\nBut surely
    this absence/presence of personality is the very distinction between the way that
    text and display types work? Readers can spot the personalities in display types,
    for they have the kind of noticeable idiosyncracies that are removed from text
    faces, both because one wants these to have a broad and generic usage and not
    filter the neutrality of prose that is objectively written, or imply character
    when called upon in successive paragraphs to represent quotes from quite different
    people; and secondly because peculiarities are considered to draw attention to
    themselves and disrupt the immersive reading experience. If the faces presented
    to the readers had been Minion, Times, Utopia, Quadraat, etc., I doubt the spread
    of personalities would have been so broad and obvious, and suspect that such traditional
    serifed faces would have all suggested the character of someone who is serious,
    bookish, and old-fashioned."
  created: '2008-03-13 10:01:07'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "Let's talk children's books for a minute. One might think that Century Schoolbook
    is a boring mechanical typeface designed to help us learn how to read, and that
    other \"childlike\" faces, like Comic Sans, for example, exude silliness. What's
    neat about this is the irony  found in Dr. Seuss books, where the mechanical Century
    Schoolbook is used to illustrate very silly text, and therefore this mechanical
    typeface assumes a silly personality, and makes learning \"fun.\" Maybe. At least
    that's how it worked for me, and that's why I still love Century Schoolbook so
    much. This goes along with the context theory. It is also very probable that most
    people's first exposure to Century Schoolbook is not in a Dr. Seuss book, but
    rather in a very dry mathematics text book, and for those poor folks, Century
    Schoolbook might forever be associated with dullness.\r\n\r\nSo this begs the
    question, \"How much does a typeface's first impression figure in to its lasting
    personality in a person's mind?\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-13 15:36:16'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Dezcom said it best.  To put it as my old new (heh) media professor would
    say it, \"People can understand design language without being able to speak it\".
    \ That is, in a horror film, while people might not be able to explain why the
    tremolo strings in heightens the tension (other than that it's a common feature
    in such films), they receive the intended effect.  Film is full of such examples,
    and type is the same way.\r\n\r\nFor my masters thesis (non-type related) I had
    to read a book which to be as a guy was rather disgusting (something about women
    and liberation of women through their bodies) and something about the font was
    bothering me too.  It was a very feminine font, and while I think the majority
    of the population would get that, they might not be able to explain <i>why</i>
    it was like that.  For women I supose it would make the text more inviting, for
    men, well, that much more repulsive (seriously, printing a book with an x-height
    at 90% of your ascender/cap height?).\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea
    tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz
    Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-03-13 18:47:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I hope you're not questioning the manliness of Ed Benguiat's type designs
    :-)
  created: '2008-03-13 21:40:03'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: Vic -- it might be interesting to try and create a disconnect for readers.
    The Bible set in Comic Sans, or a Garfield cartoon set in Courier, for example.
    What message do they get from an inappropriate typeface, if any?
  created: '2008-03-13 22:23:25'
- author:
    name: victor ivanov
    picture: 111726
  body: "thank you guys, this is all good stuff!\r\ngreat to hear your opinions on
    the topic. \r\nI like how Dezcom put it, with the idea being that though a reader
    might not be able to understand why, he is still affected by type. \r\nKoppa,
    thank you for providing an example.\r\nI myself am unfortunately unfamiliar with
    the publications you've stated (I was born, and brought up in Russia, at 13 i
    went to UK, then New Zealand to do my Ba  and now live and study in Melbourne,
    Australia) but i will try to find images on google.\r\nFeeltheKern, thanks for
    your suggestion, it does sound interesting, and if i can somehow implement that
    somewhere in my project i will! \r\n\r\nGuifa, I love that, understanding design
    language without being able to speak it!\r\n\r\nAs a result of my research, I
    want to design a typeface, and promo stuff like Poster, Specimen, maybe a website,
    and some sort of a small publication that utilizes it.\r\n\r\nI hope that we continue
    discussing this as I am really getting some interesting ideas and perspectives
    from you guys! \r\nDoes anyone have any books they suggest me to read. \r\n\r\nI've
    tried to find helvetica video but failed, so i had to download it, but I would
    really love to see if i can order the real thing, I love owning stuff like this.
    I am going to watch it tonight, very excited about it!\r\n\r\nAlso, if you guys
    have visuals to any examples you provide, and are feeling generous, feel free
    to embed  them.\r\n\r\nThanks for all the responses, looking forward to more discussions!\r\n "
  created: '2008-03-13 22:45:22'
- author:
    name: Scalfin
    picture: 114154
  body: Try getting Oceans Thirteen and watching the extra on casino design. It is
    a good demonstration of how much subtle details do.
  created: '2008-03-14 00:02:28'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Nick, take his Panache and then push its x-height up even higher, and then
    print an entire book about how man's vagina complex is the source of women's problems
    and how liberation of women can only occur by recognizing and refusing the female
    castration complex in said font, and I think you'll understand the difficulties
    I had :)\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos
    cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-03-14 11:10:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: A stern challenge indeed to your powers of objectivity, Matthew, but I'm not
    sure the typeface should be blamed for the book designer's transgressive behvior--it
    seems to be as much a victim of the text as you were.
  created: '2008-03-14 18:11:24'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: Every font has its own character. Script font is girly, flowing...etc. You
    should get a feel of the attributes each font carries.
  created: '2008-03-15 00:30:51'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Oh I agree.  As a display font, or titling font, or even heading font it
    would have been far better for the book.  But, I think it was chosen for that
    reason.  The book is very heavy, throwing its views at the reader, and setting
    the entire book in such a font greatly aided it.\r\n\r\nI'm sure to the average
    reader it was far more of a subtle effect.  But, certain subtleties are lost on
    me.  \r\n\r\nIn any case, back on the main topic, another thing that Victor may
    want to look comes out of the poetry world and highly relevant the discussion.
    \ Summed up, \"traditional\" poetry is composed on two components: the aural and
    semantic.  Individuals words were only perceived to have these two qualities.
    \ Two words could have the same semantic value, but they were unique in their
    aural.  However, starting in the <em>Vanguardismo</em> period (I put it in Spanish
    because avant-garde in English has different meanings and connotations) at the
    beginnings of the 1900s, views changed.  Words were then seen as having three
    components: the aural, semantic, and <em>graphic</em>.  That's to say, simply
    changing the appearance of letters, spacing them further, making them bold, stretching
    them, would change the effect that the word had on the receiver and how the poem
    should be structured, so that two words with the same semantic and aural components
    (which would have been identical in traditional views) could be radically different.
    \ Iberian America is quite well known for its concrete poetry which is almost
    a direct result of this view. \r\n\r\nNeedless to say, these ideas are quite important
    to typography folk.  You see it on this forum when people ask the best way to
    set the word \"Exclusive\" (I think that was the business IIRC) so that it would
    give off that feeling.  If it's set in Comic Sans, it becomes a joke.  In another
    face, antiquated.  Another, modern and hip.  But it's not the name or word or
    the spelling of the word that gives off that feeling rather it's the font.  In
    logos it's far more pronounced as it's a single word, but in body text it can
    be much the same.\r\n\r\nPS Some other good poets in this vain include Jos\xE9
    Juan Tablada, Carlos Oquenda de Amat, Roberto Hidalgo, and the Oswald de Andrade
    (and the rest of the Andrade family).\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea
    tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz
    Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-03-15 00:32:01'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Nick, when I said heavy I meant the density of the material.  And besides
    if you're from the South like I am, *ahem* we have a lot of heavy girls.  (and
    guys too, I think Alabama is the 47 or 48th fattest state).\r\n\r\nAlso, those
    are indeed layout qualities, but I was just treating the historical events (and
    like typefaces, they are a purely graphical element of a poem, distinct from the
    aural and semantic).  With the thousands of typefaces available today combined
    with modern layout engines, one could only imagine the stuff the <em>vangardistas</em>
    would have come up with today.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina
    que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por
    Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-03-15 02:52:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The book is very heavy, throwing its views at the reader</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    how can a girly font be so butch?\r\nSurely it is not the font itself which is
    overtly heavy or sexual, these are attributes which are created by the book designer,
    exploiting content and context to invest the typeface with these qualities.\r\n\r\n<em>That\u2019s
    to say, simply changing the appearance of letters, spacing them further, making
    them bold, stretching them, would change the effect that the word had on the receiver
    and how the poem should be structured, </em>\r\n\r\nThese are not primarily typeface
    qualities, but layout qualities. \r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nAccording to Saussure, the
    sign is completely arbitrary, i.e. there is no necessary connection between the
    sign and its meaning.\r\nAnd so the shape of the Latin \"p\" signifies the sound
    \"p\" to me, but in the Greek script if signifies the sound \"r\". (Sorry, I would
    express that in phonetics if I knew how.)\r\nThe same is true for typefaces. A
    particular glyph in a typeface can signify different qualities to different typographers,
    and many things to readers, depending on how the typographer sets the face. \r\nThis
    is not to deny that there are broad clich\xE9s which everyone is \"supposed\"
    to get, but from a deconstructive perspective, these connotations are primarily
    dependent on the identity of the reader. \r\n\r\n[Sorry, this is out of order,
    I should have added that as a second post.]"
  created: '2008-03-15 03:03:19'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: "\"...the sign is completely arbitrary, i.e. there is no necessary connection
    between the sign and its meaning.\"\r\n\r\nI've been told that in Japanese two
    signs for \"woman\" combined mean \"to argue\" and three signs for \"woman\" combined
    mean something like \"immorality\", while \"beauty\" includes a sign for \"sheep\".\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2008-03-15 18:30:57'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "C. S. Pierce's semiotics, rather than semiotics in the Saussurean vein, might
    be more applicable to type design. Pierce talks about some signs being \"symbols\"
    which, like Saussure's sign, are related to the signified only arbitrarily or
    conventionally -- but there are also \"icons\" which share resemblance with their
    signifieds and \"indices\" which share a more direct relationship (e.g. causal)
    with their signifieds. \r\nSo in [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semiotic_elements_and_classes_of_signs_%28Peirce%29#II._Icon.2C_index.2C_symbol|Pierce's
    terms]] (as I understand them):\r\n\r\nthe letters d-o-g are a symbol of /dog/\r\na
    drawing of a dog is an icon of /dog/\r\na pawprint of a dog is an index of /dog/\r\n\r\nIn
    which way might type design be read as a sign? I can imagine arguments for all
    three."
  created: '2008-03-15 19:29:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"C. S. Pierce\u2019s semiotics,\"\r\n\r\nand Roland Barthes?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-15 19:34:54'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "It's important to note that both Pierce and Saussurean's terminology is not
    necessarily referring to written language.  Pierce's can be expanded to it, but
    Saussurean was looking exclusively at the aural v semantic distinction.  Natural
    languages are spoken first and written later and a lot of his research was focused
    on earlier prerecorded languages so it was all worked out via how the languages
    would have been said.  So, while for instance (using Japanese as an example),
    \u6728 means tree, \u6797 wood, and \u68EE forest, the words for these are not
    simply \"ki\", \"kiki\" and \"kikiki\" rather \"ki\", \"rin\" and \"mori\" (I
    looked up the pronunciations, they might be off, I welcome corrections), which
    have very little in common, although their graphic and semantic representations
    do link them, their aural components are quite different and unrelated with their
    meaning.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos
    cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-03-15 20:08:35'
date: '2008-03-11 00:13:12'
node_type: forum
title: typefaces and what they tell us

---
