---
author:
  name: 72p
body: "I have just seen the Gary Hustwit's Helvetica Documentary. \r\nQuite late,
  but I guess it is better late than never.\r\n\r\nI felt very disappointed and did
  not enjoy it as much as I was told I would.  \r\nSame faces, same stories, same
  work...\r\n\r\nWhat did you guys feel about it?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Ivo
    picture: 128123
  body: "The only thing I really liked was Erik's part. As always he leveraged the
    documentary \u2026 at least a bit.   "
  created: '2008-03-11 16:33:13'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "I loved it. :-)\r\nBut then again: I didn't know many of the people featured/interviewed.\r\nI'm
    looking forward to having time to watch the bonus DVD - I hope for much more of
    Erik Spiekermanns ramblings.\r\n\"In a sans serif design many try to make the
    letters look similar. Why? Why would they want the letters to look like each other!?\"\r\nClassic.
    :-D"
  created: '2008-03-11 16:52:16'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "They're showing it in Seattle this week, and I've thought about going again.
    But I probably won't. It's weird, because now all of the trendy \"designers\"
    have caught on to the film and think they are hip and \"into\" fonts because they've
    seen the film.\r\n\r\nReally, it's quite sad. The movie was good, and the guys
    involved in it were good, but I don't know if it's a \"second time on the big
    screen\" movie. Maybe I'll go just to network."
  created: '2008-03-11 17:03:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: I thought it was fabulous, and bought the DVD, which is even better. Not only
    do you have very amusing additional interviews, but you can skip through all those
    shots of that damn Helvetica!
  created: '2008-03-11 17:12:27'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I loved it and also the DVD extras. Can't get enough Spiekermann.
  created: '2008-03-11 17:16:40'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Just when you thought it was safe to go back to the video store... Helvetica
    blu-ray - http://www.helveticafilm.com/blog/2008/03/05/blu-wednesday/ '
  created: '2008-03-11 17:48:45'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Does the bluray edition come with enhanced explosions and chase scenes?
  created: '2008-03-11 18:00:25'
- author:
    name: bobfet1
  body: I don't have a blu-ray player but I want to get one now because of that package
    design :)
  created: '2008-03-11 18:11:28'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "I saw it at NWFF in Seattle this week, after seeing it on DVD. The audience
    seemed to be pretty into it, although I'd guess probably 50% were designers. The
    head of our local AIGA chapter even gave away a Helvetica poster to the first
    person who could produce something from their pocket with Helvetica on it -- it
    took about 5 seconds for a winner to pop up.\r\n\r\nMy non-designer friend I saw
    it with liked the interviews, particularly with the more cantankerous designers
    like Massimo Vignelli and Erik Spiekermann, but felt the ending kind of fell apart.
    I'd have to agree with that. I was expecting something more poignant at the end,
    and it kind of fell flat. There was this build-up to show Helvetica as a microcosm
    of 20th century western thinking, but it never came full circle."
  created: '2008-03-12 08:02:26'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Does the bluray edition come with enhanced explosions and chase scenes?\r\n\r\nThink
    of the DVD as the PostScript Type 1 font and the bluray as the OpenType Pro version
    of the same font. "
  created: '2008-03-12 13:42:34'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: 'Coming soon: <em>Helvetica</em> in 3D!'
  created: '2008-03-12 14:32:25'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "72p, here are two other Typophile threads devoted to the film:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/27479\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/35686"
  created: '2008-03-12 14:35:49'
- author:
    name: 72p
  body: "Thank you Ricardo, I new this couldn't have been the first discussion but
    I could not find those you pointed out before.\r\n\r\nIf you guys haven't seen
    the extras on the DVD make sure you don't miss them! \r\n\r\nI must admit I was
    expecting more of the documentary, brave and solid but to me it felt out-of-the-book
    and half way there. Although just seeing someone setting type on a large screen
    still turns me on,  I demand more.\r\n\r\nHope you do not mind me disagreeing."
  created: '2008-03-12 16:38:16'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Finally, my Playstation 3 is justified!
  created: '2008-03-12 19:01:29'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "For those who've missed this the HelvBlu just went on pre-sale and the Helvetishop
    - 125 clams for the special edition, 26 for the \r\n\r\nhttp://www.helveticafilm.com/blog/2008/03/12/tangled-up-in-blu/ "
  created: '2008-03-12 20:16:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Hope you do not mind me disagreeing.</em>\r\n\r\nI agree with you, and
    that's why I haven't seen the film."
  created: '2008-03-12 21:13:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I liked the film much more than I expected that I would. After seeing it,
    I bought the DVD. I thought they did a decent job with it and would recommend
    anyone see it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-13 02:36:18'
- author:
    name: swiss dots
    picture: 111368
  body: "<cite>I agree with you, and that\u2019s why I haven\u2019t seen the film.</cite>\r\n\r\nRight
    on, Nick. Do not see the film, ever. Keep the faith. \r\n\r\nAnd Si, thanks for
    the Blu-ray order!"
  created: '2008-03-13 02:45:19'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">And Si, thanks for the Blu-ray order!\r\n\r\nThank you Gary! I've got 'til
    May to save up for a player ;-)"
  created: '2008-03-13 03:58:06'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Sii, you don\u2019t have a Playstation 3 yet? \r\n\r\nSeriously tho, we got
    one here and it\u2019s fabulous\u2014but all the games suck, which is good because
    the last thing I need with graduation two months away is video games."
  created: '2008-03-13 04:21:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Right on, Nick. Do not see the film, ever. Keep the faith.</em>\r\n\r\nDo
    I detect a note of sarcasm, Gary?\r\nI also won't be seeing No Country for Old
    Men, so you're in good company :-)"
  created: '2008-03-13 04:46:11'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Sii, you don\u2019t have a Playstation 3 yet?  \r\n\r\nNo, got an XBox 360
    for Xmas.  "
  created: '2008-03-13 04:58:09'
- author:
    name: albriks
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/413975598_35a181a886_5274.jpg]\r\n\r\nToo
    close? Love the film, though!"
  created: '2008-03-13 07:50:28'
- author:
    name: swiss dots
    picture: 111368
  body: "<cite>I also won\u2019t be seeing No Country for Old Men, so you\u2019re
    in good company :-)</cite>\r\n\r\nTrue, both films are infamous for their hairstyles
    and excessive violence. I wanted to have a scene where Spiekermann is chased by
    a pit bull, but I couldn't find one in Berlin..."
  created: '2008-03-13 13:01:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, FYI the film hangs a history of the last 50 years of graphic design
    on the peg of the 50th anniversary of Helvetica. And it is from the mouths of
    some of the leading participants, who are all pretty colorful and articulate characters.
    Also, many of them dislike or detest Helvetica. \r\n\r\nPersonally, I don't see
    how you can love type and not really enjoy this film. "
  created: '2008-03-13 13:53:41'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: I wish they had interviewed James McAvoy. Because then my wife would watch
    it.
  created: '2008-03-13 15:45:18'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>FYI the film hangs a history of the last 50 years of graphic design on
    the peg of the 50th anniversary of Helvetica</em>\r\n\r\nThat's exactly right
    - it winds up being much more a profile of the typography/graphic design field
    than of the typeface. I liked it for that (though I'd also have enjoyed the movie
    I expected it to be: a closer history of Helvetica's design).\r\n\r\nAnd I liked
    the music too."
  created: '2008-03-13 16:23:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t see how you can love type and not really enjoy this film.</em>\r\n\r\nThere's
    just something about talking head documentaries on the big screen that makes me
    squirm.\r\nAnd I imagine Helvetica itself has major screen time in the eponymous
    doc, so on the same principle I don't go to Mel Gibson movies as I'd have to spend
    a lot of time watching close-ups of him..."
  created: '2008-03-13 17:17:29'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Interesting how many Helvetica-film evangelists there are out there trying
    to convert the unbelievers. ;-) '
  created: '2008-03-13 18:03:18'
- author:
    name: 001_sam
  body: I'm not sure why but after having seen it a couple of weeks ago @ school,
    i wasnt sure wether i like or loathed the font itself. I'm new to all of this,
    but i thought some opinions (good or bad) were a bit... snobbish.
  created: '2008-03-13 18:17:23'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: ">>the film hangs a history of the last 50 years of graphic design on the
    peg of the 50th anniversary of Helvetica\r\n\r\nI would have liked to see more
    Univers vs. Helvetica, because they share the same birthday, and were equally
    important to the whole last 50 years debate..."
  created: '2008-03-13 21:00:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Univetica_6541.png]'
  created: '2008-03-13 21:55:53'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: I would like to have seen more on its place in history. Jonathon Hoefler headed
    a bit in that direction, but overall the movie made it seem as though it was this
    massive jump forward in modernism. Helvetica, to me, is just the perfect storm
    of being at the right time at the right place. Maybe that's true of all art history,
    though?
  created: '2008-03-13 22:18:56'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/heliverse!_5078.png]'
  created: '2008-03-13 22:29:48'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "nick: how do you so perfectly match the typophile background color ? \r\n\r\nwhen
    i analyze it and create a digital rgb match, the result posts a bit off. see above."
  created: '2008-03-13 22:32:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "1. Duplicate layer.\r\n2. In top layer, select white area around type (and
    inside: non-contiguous) with magic wand.\r\n3. Delete this selection\r\n4. Delete
    background layer\r\n5. Save as .png\r\n\r\nBTW, Univetica is a 50/50 blend."
  created: '2008-03-13 22:48:06'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "ahh - so the background is actually from typophile. duh. \r\n\r\nyes your
    hybrid is swell; wish i'd had time to play. \r\n\r\nit's nerve wracking posting
    even humorous type-set asides to this group, \r\nas the standards are impeccable!
    as they should be. bravo."
  created: '2008-03-13 23:01:43'
- author:
    name: victor ivanov
    picture: 111726
  body: "I'm going to watch it tonight, looking forward to it. \r\nWe can argue all
    the pros and cons of helvetica forever, however it is an important typeface that
    undoubtedly had a great impact on the design history, and for that reason I want
    to watch it. Well that and interviews with Erik Spiekermann :) "
  created: '2008-03-13 23:08:27'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: don't miss the dvd extras, vic one.  :-)
  created: '2008-03-14 04:00:26'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "albriks, um yeah...\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Helvetica_hustlE_5504.gif]\r\nI
    think we'll see another charity auction, lol.\r\n\r\n<em>\"Why these spirals you
    might ask? Well, first of all, the disc-like forms refer to the idea of formats:
    Blu-ray, vinyl, etc. Secondly, we liked the idea of Helvetica as a typeface spiralling
    out of control, or revolving almost like a planet, or a dark sun, or a universe
    in itself. We also thought that the spiral-like disc would refer to rays, radiation,
    etc., underlining the idea of Blu-ray. \r\n\r\nBut most of all, we really wanted
    to show the typeface in a sort of deconstructed type specimen. We thought it would
    be interesting to show the typeface, without actually showing it. As you see,
    the forms shown on the sleeve are not recognizable as letters, but you can still
    notice the shapes that are characteristic for Helvetica.\"</em> helveticafilm.com/blu.html\r\n\r\nYeah,
    ok pal. Not to mention the design is nothing more than just a spin - like the
    typeface itself?\r\n\r\n...sigh \r\n"
  created: '2008-03-14 16:23:41'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Neil, you missed the attribution... "Explains Experimental Jetest, in an email
    to Plexifilm:" - blame the designers, not the client! ;-)
  created: '2008-03-14 17:28:34'
- author:
    name: swiss dots
    picture: 111368
  body: "Experimental Jetset says they hadn't seen the Westinghouse brochure before
    this similarity was pointed out, post-release, and I believe them. They're some
    of the most brilliant designers I've met. Let's look at the full designs side
    by side (excuse my thumb):\r\n\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/jetset_4691.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    think they're very different concepts. \r\n\r\n-Gary"
  created: '2008-03-15 04:09:29'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "\r\nSorry, can someone explain what this post is about?\r\n\r\nSomeone didn't
    like the Helvetica film.......and?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nInto the archives you
    go."
  created: '2008-03-15 04:27:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Gary,\r\nI have a question about the Westinghouse Emergencies cover. Years
    ago when I was a young buck, I worked for Westinghose Corporate design Center
    in Pittsburgh. I know this piece from those days. I am trying to remember if it
    were done by Ken Hiebert, Peter Megert, or Eddy Byrd. We were all very Gerstner
    \"Designing Programmes\" conscious in those days so this is no surprise to see.
    My guess would be that it was a Hiebert design since he was a Basle guy. He was
    one of my professors and I worked for him part time in the mid-sixties. Peter
    was a Mueller-Brockmann apprentice and came to Westinghouse in 1968. He was my
    boss while I was there. I am having trouble remembering who actually designed
    this piece and hope you can come up with the correct name? Fred Troller is another
    possibility but I doubt if it was him.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-15 15:21:30'
- author:
    name: albriks
  body: "I don't think of it as plagiarism as its clearly not. I only posted it because
    it reminded me about it. It is, like Gary points out, different concepts, but
    perhaps rooted in a similar idea. The EJ version is also much better in my opinion
    if you look away from the BS statement, though. That might work on a normal client,
    but come on, do they really think designers would buy that crap?\r\n\r\nedit:
    Certainly not suggesting the client in this case is stupid. They could've just
    spared themselves as I don't think it was neccessary to say in order to sell the
    idea/design."
  created: '2008-03-15 18:44:25'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Christian, if you read on you'll see a quote from Gary... \r\n\r\n\"...I
    nearly peed myself. That's technical jargon for: I appreciated their wit and creativity.\"
    \r\n\r\ntranslation - \"great packaging + wonderfully over-the-top BS explanation.\"
    \r\n\r\nDesigners don't need to \"buy\" the explanation, they just need to buy
    the product. ;-) \r\n"
  created: '2008-03-15 18:55:13'
- author:
    name: swiss dots
    picture: 111368
  body: "The Jetset have historically done statements explaining their process (see
    <a href=\"http://www.experimentaljetset.com\">the website</a>) and frankly, that's
    what I like about their work. If you know them, have seen one of their exhibits/lectures,
    or have followed their designs over the last decade, you'll get it. If not, you
    might not. I don't think that text is BS, and I was the one who asked them to
    let us include it on the site. I like it. \r\n\r\nAnd Chris, I don't have any
    further info on that Westinghouse brochure, unfortunately. It's great work, though.\r\n\r\nIn
    response to the comment that started this thread: we've all got our own opinions
    of what a documentary about type could or should be. <cite>Helvetica</cite> just
    happened to be mine. The film had its world premiere a year ago, and if someone
    had been reading the press and blogs about it for the past year and then just
    watched it now for the first time, who knows what they'd be expecting. And veteran
    designers will have different opinions than students, or non-designers, etc. \r\n\r\nIf
    anyone has their own ideas about how a film about type should be made, by all
    means pick up a camera and make it. And I'm not saying that as a challenge to
    criticism... I'm not saying \"put up or shut up.\" I just really want to see more
    films about design, as a viewer! That's the reason I made <cite>Helvetica</cite>,
    to be able to watch the film I had in my head. Other people have different points
    of view, and I'd like to see those on the screen. Filmmaking should be a conversation,
    not a declaration, and in terms of design films there are still plenty more issues
    and people that we can focus on (no pun intended).\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\n-Gary"
  created: '2008-03-16 19:19:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, Gary! There have been so few (0) films in the area of typography
    that I was thrilled to see yours come out and hope more is coming from others
    as well. I know it it one of those vertical market things and hard to see reaching
    a broader market. Helvetica the typeface had the better chance of getting some
    viewing as a film for the very reason so many people get riled up about it. It
    made the fatal error of becoming extremely popular. Something like Perpetua might
    have its share of fans but this is a tiny bunch of type geeks, not a mass appeal.
    Dirty little scandals about folks like Gill might have some market bump but not
    because of the type. It would be about the sleeze factor.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-16 19:45:19'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: Chris, were you speaking hypothetically, or referring to  [[http://www.sussex-southdowns-guide.com/Looking-for-Mr-Gill.html|Looking
    for Mr Gill]]?
  created: '2008-03-17 13:55:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I was speaking hypothetically--I was not familiar with the link you posted.
    I was just trying to show an example of what kind of thing gets movies made more
    often than typography.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-17 14:13:29'
- author:
    name: BrooklynRob
    picture: 110975
  body: "I loved the Helvetica film -- it is really a joyous celebration of design.\r\nI
    also love it because I've shown it to three friends and my partner, none of them
    designers, who all were riveted (wasn't expecting that, I'll admit) and now they
    understand quite a bit more about what design is and, consequently, what I do
    for a living.\r\nAs a result, they now will sometimes initiate conversations about
    typefaces... it's not unusual for one of them to ask me out on the street if a
    poster is set in Helvetica or Univers... (!)\r\n\r\nBy the way, I think the Experimental
    Jetset package is both a better design *and* a stronger concept than the Westinghouse
    cover.\r\n\r\n--Rob"
  created: '2008-03-26 02:20:13'
- author:
    name: 72p
  body: "As a closure to this wonderful conversation, impossible to imagine without
    the piece of film itself, I would like to thank you all for your always passionate
    and sincere comments. \r\n\r\nI now believe, many posts after, that  the part
    of me that viscerally rejected this documentary and that automatically and irrationally
    initiated this topic was the same one that received it as an unauthorized biography.\r\nNever
    before I had felt so uncomfortable watching a piece of film, and It surely was
    because this time every single frame was a close-up of a very important part of
    me.  Just like it no doubt was of many of you.\r\n\r\nIt was probably inappropriate
    to even start this topic in the first place and the question should have stayed
    as a personal reflection. But the number of comments, even if just motivated by
    the relevance of the typeface in question, have surely made the journey worth
    it and the evolution of the internal debate much more interesting.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    I will even start a similar topic one day asking for opinions on a piece of film
    of my own. And hopefully somebody will try to define it as an \u201Corange plastic
    olivetti typewriter roman holiday expresso\u201D.\r\n\r\nH\r\n\r\n\r\n---"
  created: '2008-04-14 11:24:08'
date: '2008-03-11 16:04:49'
title: Helvetica Documentary

---
