---
author:
  name: blank
body: How many of you got in trouble when you were kids for drawing the letter a with
  two stories instead of one?
comments:
- author:
    name: Rafe Copeland
    picture: 114032
  body: "I was in year 1 (or whatever it might be called in various other parts of
    the world, when you are five and start school) only 15 years ago, and even that
    recently I was very clearly told that you do not write the letter a with two stories.
    Only single storey. And until a few months ago I have done just as I was taught.
    Now I use double-stories in my handwriting and I hugely prefer them.\r\n\r\nCan't
    say I got in trouble though, I was always one to try and please the teacher back
    in primary school :P\r\n\r\n-Rafe"
  created: '2008-03-12 04:54:50'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>How many of you got in trouble when you were kids for drawing the letter
    a with two stories instead of one?</cite>\r\n\r\nDid your teacher (or anybody
    else) want you to write a double-storey \u2018a\u2019?"
  created: '2008-03-12 08:38:26'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: I was a big fan of adding serifs to my letters if I got done early. I loved
    the double-story "a", and especially the double-story "g". I stopped doing that
    around 4th grade or so.
  created: '2008-03-12 08:48:51'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "When I reached the ripe old age of six or seven years, one day one of my
    teachers made my mum come in to the school and made her watch me write out the
    letters of the alphabet, because they were concerned about me drawing my stems
    from top to bottom instead of bottom to top like all the much-alike kids, and
    presumably adults, did. There were a few other unusual ways I had of drawing characters
    which they pointed out and made my mum observe me comitting to paper with a pencil.\r\n\r\nShe
    looked at this jerk teacher and said, \"Yes?\" The teacher hummed and hah-ed,
    but was unable to really say that what I was doing was bad. He shrugged and said,
    \"It's just unusual that's all. No big deal, but we would like him to draw his
    letters the same way everybody else does.\" My mum laughed and told him what a
    ridiculous waste of everybody's time he had made. My method of writing letters
    was different but my letters did not look substantially different from accepted
    norms.\r\n\r\nHad I been armed at the time with the kind of language skills acquired
    by the age of thirty-three, I would have told that teacher to \"stick your draconian
    pendantry up your arse for nothing and fack off while you're doing it.\" \r\n\r\nSo
    instead I had to settle for staring at him as if he had green skin and antennas
    coming out of his head.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-03-12 09:49:34'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I made my \"b\"s look like \"d\"s. I knew what they were. Why didn't Miss
    Whatshername? \r\nSee, here's the thing... The b is loyal, conservative and, well,
    boring. It points the same way as it's dad, the B. The d, on the otherhand, is
    all about exploring and adventure. It's a rebel. I doesn't follow in it's D dad's
    footsteps.\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-03-12 11:58:32'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "I can remember consciously changing from doing the single-storey to double-storey
    \u2018a' as a child. Probably at about twelve, I suppose. I just thought they
    looked better. The influence of print, obviously. Nobody complained. \r\n\r\n______________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2008-03-12 12:00:20'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Did your teacher (or anybody else) want you to write a double-storey
    \u2018a\u2019?</cite>\r\n\r\nIf only. I\u2019m pretty sure that if I went to the
    my childhood school systems records building and dug my files out, there would
    be something about my weird handwriting at least once a year."
  created: '2008-03-12 12:29:40'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I found quickly when I started my job in Madrid that kids around the Latin-script-writing
    world don't learn to write the same.\r\n\r\nI'm used to using cursive majuscules
    when I write my lowercase in cursive as well, but some of them (the Z, G, F, T,
    Q and I in particular) are unintelligible for them.  They also teach cursive here
    before printing (???) and don't connect all the letters.\r\n\r\nThe only thing
    I remember doing was to cross my Z and 7 like my dad did 'cause he was a mathematician,
    whereas all my classmates continued to write them normally.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-03-12 21:15:38'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "My teachers wanted me, and the other 5 wacky kids from the other public school
    where we started out, to follow the copperplate-based models everyone else was
    using, instead of the chancery-based models we used. Fortunately someone must
    have pointed out the meaninglessness of the distinction, and we were allowed to
    continue as before. Turns out the chancery hand is useful, allowing quite fast
    writing without much deterioration. It's pretty efficient. \r\n\r\nI think if
    kids persisted in writing all caps, they would have been re-trained. \r\n"
  created: '2008-03-12 21:58:51'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "My handwriting as a child, had been so atrocious, that it wouldn't matter
    to my teachers how many strokes I used, or what format it followed as long as
    it was even marginally decipherable. The sad thing is, it's still just as horrible.
    I can draw letters well enough, but I can't write them to any degree of acceptability.\r\nBoth
    Latin and Cyrillic.\r\n:(\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-03-12 23:05:43'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Any one else learn to write with a steel nibbed stick pen you had to dip
    into a bottle of ink? For some reason, they preferred to trust kids with bottles
    of ink and steel nibs that spattered and dribbled ink on everything instead of
    those new-fangled ball point pens. \r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-03-13 00:00:59'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: You guys got to learn in INK!? That's totally not fair. I learned in crayon.
    Poorly. I was also the first to learn cursive, and the last to perfect it :)
  created: '2008-03-13 00:08:45'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "For some reason they expected our stubby tiny hands to have an easier time
    gripping monstrously thick crayons and pencils, at least for the first couple
    years. We were taught a strange hybrid cursive printing, making upright disconnected
    letters using cursive stroke order, and were brutally chastised for making looping
    ascenders. Then we were taught proper cursive with normal pencils in second grade.
    All this discipline was quite literally painful for me, giving me a powerful psychological
    aversion to handwriting to this day. \r\n\r\nBy fourth grade I had abandoned it
    all for all-caps printing when I couldn't get on a typewriter."
  created: '2008-03-13 00:37:28'
- author:
    name: Scalfin
    picture: 114154
  body: I took to cursive quickly, and print like a toddler because of it.
  created: '2008-03-13 02:11:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "We were taught in the 1940s using pointed steel pens which we dipped in ink
    bottles. The hard part was that the desks were old and badly scratched and whittled.
    This caused pen-points to get stuck in a crevasse and splot blobs of ink. Given
    that we were writing on the grand canyon, my writing was quite good early on.
    As time went by and I grew older and wrote faster, my penmanship degraded to its
    present state of illegible scrawly mess.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-13 02:53:55'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Dan, it was fat pencils in grade one, normal pencils until whenever is was
    they started teaching script, when they handed out the pens. Grade 4, I think,
    'cause it was in Sylvan Lake, Alberta. There was the obligatory blond girl who
    got a pig tail dipped in someone's ink bottle, and then there was the kid who
    sat behind me who tattooed an iron cross in the back of his hand. \r\n\r\nBack
    to the original question, I saw characters as having personalities, which wasn't
    helpful, but at that age I don't think I was observant enough to notice that the
    were different types of 'a's\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-03-13 03:33:50'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "I cannot speak for myself, but this topic hits home because my daughter,
    Katrina, age 4 1/2, just started drawing her name using lowercase letters this
    week. When she asked me how to make an a, I showed her the two-story a, and as
    far as she knows, that's the only way to draw a lowercase a, and she does it pretty
    well. I haven't heard yet what her pre-K teacher thinks about it, but I'm hoping
    she'll be impressed! I know I am.\r\n\r\nHer t also includes the little forward
    hook (for lack of my knowing the technical term) on the bottom of the vertical
    stroke, which looks pretty great.\r\n\r\nWhat I do remember about my early letters
    is that I couldn't wait to learn how to write in cursive. In first grade, I went
    to the second grade for reading class, where the cursive letters were posted above
    the blackboard. I took careful note of the illustrations and began proudly writing
    in cursive in first grade. I guess that was my intro to italics.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-13 15:17:20'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: I also had terrible handwriting, and my Grade 7 teachers decided to cure me
    of it by making me print everything. This resulted in my printing becoming as
    rushed and as bad as cursive. They thought I was sloppy. I wasn't. I was just
    in a rush to get the ideas from my head down on paper. It wasn't until 20 years
    later when computers came along that I was able to get legible and fast at the
    same time.
  created: '2008-03-13 15:30:55'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "James,\r\n\r\n\"When I reached the ripe old age of six or seven years, one
    day one of my teachers made my mum come in to the school and made her watch me
    write out the letters of the alphabet, because they were concerned about me drawing
    my stems from top to bottom instead of bottom to top like all the much-alike kids,
    and presumably adults, did. There were a few other unusual ways I had of drawing
    characters which they pointed out and made my mum observe me comitting to paper
    with a pencil.\"\r\n\r\nYou were the deviant by drawing the stems top-to-bottom?\r\nIn
    your region they teach to write the stems bottom-to-top?\r\n\r\nAlso, the double/single
    storey \"a\" is not a real question around here, as most of Europe (at least German
    speaking countries and Eastern Europe) they teach to write running hands rather
    than \"printed\" style, separate letters; in running hand only single-storey version
    works.\r\n\r\nI remember we were only thaught to read \"printed\" style letter,
    and learnt parallelly writing (and reading) running hand.\r\n\r\nMy brother (who
    went to his first years in school in a different country than I did) learnt in
    the first year to write \"printed style\" letters along with reading them in the
    first year, just to learn to write running hand in the second year (and after
    that running hand was demanded)."
  created: '2008-03-13 16:19:23'
- author:
    name: alexhb
    picture: 110687
  body: "\"I think if kids persisted in writing all caps, they would have been re-trained.\"\r\n\r\nI'm
    in high school and I've been writing in capitals since 6th grade. The only time
    I use miniscule letters (in cursive) is when I have timed writing exams since
    it take less time to write. Ive had many teachers who loved the fact my printing
    is fairly neat and easy to read, but others (especially in middle school) that
    did not like it very much at all.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/keys2_3640.gif]\r\n\r\nIt's
    interesting really, i write many of my letters much differently that most people.
    I actually started drawing my Qs with that sort of hook after I saw GE Inspira.\r\n\r\nPS
    I realize the spelling and writing on this paper is pretty disasterous. I was
    pretty distracted by my friends the day we had this assignment."
  created: '2008-03-14 23:22:28'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>PS I realize the spelling and writing on this paper is pretty disasterous.
    I was pretty distracted by my friends the day we had this assignment.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhere
    I went to high school half the kids could barely read, so don\u2019t feel too
    bad about your spelling. "
  created: '2008-03-14 23:30:13'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "At this point, I think any teacher would welcome clear, readable writing
    in any style.\r\n\r\nI think it's interesting that S is often ligated in your
    print-writing. Caps slow you down because of their structure and disconnected
    strokes. People avoid script writing because it's so easy for it to disintegrate,
    but it doesn't have to. You have the discipline to learn a good hand and stick
    with it. \r\n\r\nYou could also make a font from your neat handwriting.... \r\n"
  created: '2008-03-14 23:32:19'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "To illustrate just how lowly my \"penmanship\" ranks, here it is in progression
    from best to worst(most hurried).\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com[img:sites/default/files/old-images/handwriting_6665.gif]"
  created: '2008-03-15 00:37:25'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Reading this I remembered a little scam I had in grade four. I (it seemed
    to me  now) often had to stay late after school to write lines. \"I will study
    my spelling before tests.\" was one popular phrase I'd have to write out a hundred,
    or even two hundred times after school. \r\n\r\nI hit on the idea of holding two
    pencils so that I could write two lines at at time. I had to be careful to hold
    each pencil slightly differently and alter my hand position from one line to the
    next so that the lines weren't too similar and keep the pressure even so they
    weren't too different.. \r\n\r\nThree pencils were just too awkward. \r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-03-15 01:12:52'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>You were the deviant by drawing the stems top-to-bottom?\r\nIn your region
    they teach to write the stems bottom-to-top?</em>\r\n\r\nStrike that, reverse
    it. I was the deviant drawing stems bottom to top in a region taught to draw stems
    top to bottom. Or something like that. Meow, it was so long ago I can't recall
    the details very well. But the basic problem was my method of pen action differed
    from the norm even tho my writing looked much like everybody else's.\r\n\r\nHarumph.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-03-15 01:31:21'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "I too was taught to write in connected miniscule forms, \"running writing\"
    as they called it, but after high school I switched to writing with \"printed
    capitals\" and have written that way ever since. Caps take longer than miniscules
    to write but I love the neatness of capital letterforms. That probably has something
    to do with becoming a type designer---fascination with structure.\r\n\r\nj a m
    e s"
  created: '2008-03-15 01:37:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sounds like they thought you were quite a heinous criminal at such a young
    age, James :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-15 02:37:38'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Hee-hee! Oh yeah, Chris. I was the blasphemer with the funny (to them) ways
    of doing things. I was attracted to things unorthodox from a young age. My unorthodox
    color sense won me the easter egg competition in 1st grade, and when the other
    kids discovered my favorite planet was Saturn I had to switch to Neptune because
    they all jumped to Saturn. Copy cats.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-03-15 05:59:41'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: ">>Caps take longer than miniscules to write but I love the neatness of capital
    letterforms.\r\n\r\nIs it just me, or does the rule about not setting things in
    all caps NOT apply to handwriting? It seems to me that I can read something written
    in all caps just fine. It doesn't seem like it's screaming all the time like in
    text. Also, there's greater variation of \"bouma\".\r\n\r\nLook at alexhb's example
    above, and you'll see what I mean. It's not hard to read at all."
  created: '2008-03-15 08:08:45'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: I used to put serifs on all my papers' titles back when I was still handwriting
    1-page essays in 3-5th grade, but I only had one teacher tell me to "stop being
    silly" or something like that. I thought that's what "real" letters were supposed
    to look like, and I was under the impression that there was one master typeface
    that existed for the alphabet (something that looked like times or garamond i
    guess. In college, I made myself write two-story a's and eyeglass g's, but by
    then, everything I passed in to teachers was typed.
  created: '2008-03-15 16:20:10'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Dan,\r\nWhat \"rule\" about not setting things in all caps do you mean? I
    guess you mean the generally accepted notion that all caps typography is less
    readable than lower case.\r\n\r\nThat one applies more to type than handwriting.
    The flipside (and here we go again with topic drift into a discussion of readability)
    is the matter of familiarity. Despite Hrant's non-acceptance of the idea, I can't
    find fault with Zuzana Licko's maxim, \"We read most what we read best\", because
    it's basically true. I have met people who insist that lower case type is harder
    for them to read than all caps. It turns out these individuals read very little
    book typography and write in \"printed capitals\", and these handwritten caps
    are the principal form of lettering they read. By near-complete lack of exposure
    to what we know as typography (book settings using lower case with caps for capitalised
    words), these people read best the form of lettering thay are most familiar with.
    It makes sense. I think Hrant's rejection of Zuzana's maxim has more to do with
    his unfortunate experience with one of Emigre's fonts than his capacity for rationale
    and readability theory.\r\n\r\nNotwithstanding, lower case forms are inherently
    more legible and inherently more readable on both a technical and aesthetic basis.
    This much we know. So what an individual finds more legible or readable is a matter
    of personal experience.\r\n\r\nIn the example above there's a lot of rounded corners,
    gently curved straights, and variation of alignment, and I'm sure those factors
    help make it more readable than type capitals with their profusion of straight
    lines.\r\n\r\nI devised a test one time where I took a seriffed roman font I was
    working on and ran a grunge filter on it---a combination of randomize nodes and
    envelope. That grunged all the letters up nicely, thinning them in spots, thickening
    in other spots, warping of straight lines, size variation, off-zenith alignment,
    and characters moved off the baseline. The auto-grunged font was easier to read
    than the straight one I had arrived at purely by design. \r\n\r\nDid Hrant or
    someone else at some point offer up a theory as to how randomness, noise and distortion
    (in the right amounts) enhances the readability of a font?\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-03-15 18:15:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "James,\r\nHere is Quote from Kevin Larson\u2019s paper,  \"The Science of
    Word Recognition, or how I learned to stop worrying and love the bouma\"\r\n\r\n\"The
    weakest evidence in support of word shape is that lowercase text is read faster
    than uppercase text. This is entirely a practice effect. Most readers spend the
    bulk of their time reading lowercase text and are therefore more proficient at
    it. When readers are forced to read large quantities of uppercase text, their
    reading speed will eventually increase to the rate of lowercase text. Even text
    oriented as if you were seeing it in a mirror will quickly increase in reading
    speed with practice (Kolers & Perkins, 1975).\"\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-15 18:27:59'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>I can\u2019t find fault with Zuzana Licko\u2019s maxim, \u201CWe read
    most what we read best\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nI think you'll have to strike and reverse
    again!"
  created: '2008-03-15 19:32:21'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Cheers Chris. Thanks for posting that information.\r\n\r\n<em>I think you\u2019ll
    have to strike and reverse again!</em>\r\n\r\nNo, Kevin Larson's research supports
    Licko's Maxim. Can you find fault with it, and if so please explain?\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-03-15 19:44:29'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I think that he means that your quote is out of order, not that the idea
    is wrong! Didn't she write \u201Cwe read <strong>best</strong> what we read <strong>most</strong>\u201D?"
  created: '2008-03-15 20:17:10'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Ah, thankyou Dan. I had a growing suspicion I had those two words swapped
    around.\r\n\r\nHa! \r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-03-15 20:43:07'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I think Mr Gill said the same thing (... only differently.) :o)\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-03-16 01:25:19'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "It's pretty evident, that \"readability\" depends on training and that some
    might read allcaps better than lowercase (supposing they read little modern printed
    matter, and by some chance read a lot of uppercase text).\r\n\r\nlowercase and
    uppercase are just two sets of forms for the same idea (which incidentally have
    common roots). Similar to different styles:\r\n\r\nWe have late medieval, early
    modern accounts of Dutch and German readers not coping with Antiqua. Probably
    one could find newer ones from the 19th century as well.\r\nOn the contrary, nowadays
    most untrained readers of today have serious problems with Fraktur.\r\n\r\nIt's
    all a question of practice.\r\n\r\nActually, what I discovered after developing
    a secret alphabet as a child was, that not only was it possible, that someone
    is more proficient in reading than writing (this is evident. So many people read,
    but can barely write, or if so, unrecognizibly), but you can also be more proficient
    in writing than reading! I mostly took some notes in my secret alphabet when I
    was scribbling something (in boredom) and others should not be able to read it,
    so I rarely read it. Even though I made up the alphabet myself, I could fluently
    write it, but only decipher it sign-by-sign!\r\n\r\nIt was quite a relevation
    on how the human mind works!\r\n\r\nActually, we know, that medieval copyists
    worked the following way: one read (aloud), many wrote (that was time-saving...
    multi-tasking/parallel processing, if you will). I would not be surprised, if
    the latter were less fluent in reading (of course depending on how much they read
    in the time not spent with writing)."
  created: '2008-03-27 12:38:05'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "I don't use double story a's or g's, I never learned how to write them fluidly.
    However, I've only started adding a cross stroke to my 7's and a hard top to my
    3's because I think it looks cool. \r\n\r\nI've never seen anyone actually write
    double story letters until recently. I caught one of my co-workers doing it. Needless
    to say, it seemed weird to see him write that way."
  created: '2008-03-27 14:09:20'
- author:
    name: rlynch
  body: "When I was about five or six I was told by my teacher that I clearly hadn't
    done my homework (simple writing exercises) myself, since my letters were more
    cursive-looking than they apparently should have been. I was unwittingly mimicking
    my parents' handwriting.\r\n\r\nRoss"
  created: '2008-03-27 15:33:39'
date: '2008-03-12 04:19:58'
title: Childhood lettering

---
