---
author:
  name: Roger S. Nelsson
  picture: 114302
body: "I'm curious to know how you learned the [[alphabet]] in school. You know, the
  selection and order of the letters used to teach children the official alphabet
  in your country/region - what might be on top of the blackboard in first grade ;-)\r\n<strong>NOT
  looking for ALL characters used/needed in a language (I got that covered), only
  the basic \"A to Z\" or whatever you call it.</strong>\r\n\r\nThis to get an overview
  over what may be considered separate basic letters in your language - it could perhaps
  be useful for a type specimen/sample directed towards specific languages?\r\n\r\nI'll
  start with the five languages I know first-hand - and expand with your input (*):\r\n\r\n*Bulgarian:
  29 letters =>\u0410\u0411\u0412\u0413\u0414\u0415\u0416\u0417\u0418\u0419\u041A\u041B\u041C\u041D\u041E\u041F\u0420\u0421\u0422\u0423\u0424\u0425\u0426\u0427\u0428\u0429\u042A\u042C\u042E\r\n*Croatian:
  30 letters (A to \u017D) => ABC\u010C\u0106D D\u017E \u0110EFGHIJKL Lj MN Nj OPRS\u0160TUVZ\u017D\r\n*Czech:
  (42(!) letters => A\xC1BC\u010CD\u010EE\xC9\u011AFGH CH I\xCDJKLMN\u0147O\xD3PQR\u0158S\u0160T\u0164U\xDA\u016EVWXY\xDDZ\u017D\r\nDanish:
  29 letters (A to \xC5) => ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ\xC6\xD8\xC5\r\nEnglish: 26
  letters (A to Z) => ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ\r\n*Esperanto: 28 letters => ABC\u0108DEFG\u011CH\u0124IJ\u0134KLMNOPRS\u015CTU\u016CVZ\r\n*Finnish:
  29 letters (A to \xD6) => ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ\xC5\xC4\xD6\r\n*German: 30
  letters => abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz\xE4\xF6\xFC\xDF\r\n*Greek: 24 letters (\u0391
  to \u03A9) => \u0391\u0392\u0393\u0394\u0395\u0396\u0397\u0398\u0399\u039A\u039B\u039C\u039D\u039E\u039F\u03A0\u03A1\u03A3\u03A4\u03A5\u03A6\u03A7\u03A8\u03A9\r\n*Hawaiian:
  \ 13(!) letters => AEIOUHKLMNPW\u02BB\r\n*Hungarian: 44(!) letters => a\xE1bc cs
  d dz dzs e\xE9fg gy hi\xEDjkl ly mn ny o\xF3\xF6\u0151pqrs sz t ty u\xFA\xFC\u0171vwxyz
  zs\r\n*Icelandic: 30 letters (A to \xD6) => ABCD\xD0EFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ\xDE\xC6\xD6\r\n*Irish
  Gaelic (Gaeilge): 18(23) letters => ABCDEFGHILMNOPRSTU (\xC1\xC9\xCD\xD3\xDA)\r\n*Italian:
  22(29) letters (A to Z) => abcdefghijlmnopqrstuvz (\xE0\xE9\xE8\xEC\xF2\xF9 \xEE)\r\nNorwegian:
  29 letters (A to \xC5) => ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ\xC6\xD8\xC5\r\n*Polish: 32
  letters => A\u0104BC\u0106DE\u0118FGHIJKL\u0141MN\u0143O\xD3PRS\u015ATUWYZ\u0179\u017B\r\n*Portuguese:
  26 letters (A to Z) => ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ\r\n*Russian: 33 letters => \u0410\u0411\u0412\u0413\u0414\u0415\u0401\u0416\u0417\u0418\u0419\u041A\u041B\u041C\u041D\u041E\u041F\u0420\u0421\u0422\u0423\u0424\u0425\u0426\u0427\u0428\u0429\u042A\u042B\u042C\u042D\u042E\u042F\r\nSaami
  (north): 29 letters => A\xC1BC\u010CD\u0110EFGHIJKLMN\u014AOPRS\u0160T\u0166UVZ\u017D\r\n*Saami
  (skolt): 37 letters => \u0410\xC2BC\u010C\u01B7\u01EED\u0110EFG\u01E6\u01E4HIJK\u01E8LMN\u014AO\xD5PRS\u0160TUVZ\u017D\xC5\xC4\u02CA\r\n*Slovak:
  46(!) letters => A\xC1\xC4BC\u010CD\u010E DZ D\u017D E\xC9FGH CH I\xCDJKL\u0139\u013DMN\u0147O\xD3\xD4PQR\u0154S\u0160T\u0164U\xDAVWXY\xDDZ\u017D\r\n*Spanish:
  27(29) letters => ABCDEFGHIJKLMN\xD1OPQRSTUVWXYZ (Ch Ll)\r\nSwedish: 29 letters
  (A to \xD6) => ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ\xC5\xC4\xD6\r\n*Turkish: 29 letters (A
  to Z) => ABC\xC7DEFG\u011EHI\u0130JKLMNO\xD6PRS\u015ETU\xDCVYZ\r\n\r\nPlease supply
  the \"ABC\" for your country/language :-)\r\n(apologies if this has already been
  covered - I searched, but found nothing on these forums)"
comments:
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "\r\nGerman: 30 letters => abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz\xE4\xF6\xFC\xDF\r\n(can't
    do it in caps, because we are still working on getting an uppercase \xDF)\r\n\r\nBTW:
    You can easily search for every alphabet at Wikipedia:\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Norwegian_alphabet\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/French_alphabet\r\n..."
  created: '2008-03-15 10:34:55'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "Thanks, Ralph! :-)\r\nSo when learning the german alphabet at school the
    three diacritic letters are bolted on at the end of the A-Z, and the \xDF is of
    course a special case?\r\nI was afraid this might get complicated (I'm anxiously
    awaiting the status of e.g. the \xD1\xF1 for spanish ;-)\r\n\r\nYes, I have looked
    at wikipedia (which e.g. says that portuguese has 23 letters - omitting KWY),
    but... with wikipedia being wikipedia, what I'm looking for is firsthand experiences
    of what you actually learned at school :-)"
  created: '2008-03-15 10:45:47'
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: "Gaeilge: 18(23) letters=> ABCDEFGHILMNOPRSTU(\xC1\xC9\xCD\xD3\xDA)\r\n\r\nA
    few letters from the standard Latin alphabet creep into use for modern and anglicised
    words. We don\u2019t strictly learn this alphabet in school \u2013 generally it
    is the English alphabet that is taught. I could go off on a rant \u2013 but I\u2019ll
    bite my lip."
  created: '2008-03-15 11:34:01'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Finnish (29): ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ\xC5\xC4\xD6"
  created: '2008-03-15 12:17:19'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "Portuguese\r\n\r\nPortugu\xE9s from Portugal\r\n\r\nPortugu\xEAs from Brazil\r\n\r\n37
    Letters:\r\n\r\nABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVXYZ\r\n\r\n\xC1 \xC0 \xC2 \xC3 \xC9 \xCD
    \xD3 \xD4 \xD5 \xDA \xDC \xC7\r\n\r\nYou can find out more in these links:\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portuguese_language\r\nhttp://www.omniglot.com/writing/portuguese.htm\r\n\r\nCheers"
  created: '2008-03-15 12:25:02'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABDanish: 29 letters => ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ\xC6\xD8\xC5\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nGrowing
    up, I was always taught in school that the Danish alphabet has only 28 letters,
    w not being part of it; but this seems to have changed recently. Even <em>Retskrivningsordbogen</em>
    now has a separate entry for w, which it did not before.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m glad
    of this, by the way, since lumping w in with v never made sense to me.\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n<cite>\xABGaeilge:
    18(23) letters=> ABCDEFGHILMNOPRSTU(\xC1\xC9\xCD\xD3\xDA)\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat
    is the status of h as a letter in Gaeilge? J, k, q, v, w, x, y, and z are only
    used in foreign words and are not counted as parts of the actual <em>aib\xEDtir</em>,
    but then again, the same goes for h, doesn\u2019t it? The only indigenous word
    I can think of that contains an h would be <em>hurlamaboc</em> (and that\u2019s
    an onomatopoeia, barely an actual word)\u2014is one word really enough to consider
    h a separate Irish letter, rather than a function?"
  created: '2008-03-15 13:01:13'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "Conor: That would be irish gaelic, right?\r\nThanks for not delwing too deep
    into the politics ;-)\r\n\r\nmili: so the basic finnish is the same as swedish
    (as danish and norwegian is also the same)...\r\n\r\nAGL: Yes, I know all those
    letters are needed for portuguese, but are they all considered basic letters?
    (you must have long blackboards in portuguese schools ;-) What I'm looking for
    is the stream of letters a child would give you if you asked if it knew the alphabet...\r\n\r\nOis\xEDn:
    interesting input :-)\r\n\r\nI've updated the first post to include these contributions...\r\nKeep
    'em coming :-)"
  created: '2008-03-15 13:21:01'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABYes, I know all those letters are needed for portuguese, but are
    they all considered basic letters? (you must have long blackboards in portuguese
    schools ;-) What I\u2019m looking for is the stream of letters a child would give
    you if you asked if it knew the alphabet...\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, they\u2019re
    not all considered basic letters, only the letters without diacritics are. And
    unlike in Spanish where Ll, \xD1, and Rr are considered separate letters (though
    Rr is sometimes an exception; it also never occurs initially, and thus has no
    separate dictionay entry), the Portuguese equivalents of these letters, Lh, Nh,
    and Rr, are considered regular digraphs, too, not individual letters. (See <a
    href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portuguese_alphabet#Basic_digraphs\">Wikipedia
    article</a>)\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\nAnd yes, Gaeilge (or Gaedhilge, Gaedhilg, Gaoluinn,
    Gaolainn, etc.) is Irish Gaelic, pronounced [\u02C8\u0261\u025B\u026Al\u026Ak].
    Scottish Gaelic, pronounced [\u02C8\u0261a(:)l\u026Ak], would be G\xE0idhlig (interestingly,
    unlike the Irish, they don\u2019t seem too keen on having half a bazillion different
    names for their own language). :-)\r\n\r\n[Edited for IPA accuracy]"
  created: '2008-03-15 13:49:46'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "<cite>(interestingly, unlike the Irish, they don\u2019t seem too keen on
    having half a bazillion different names for their own language). :-)</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    can relate to that - I'm not sure if I should call our indigenous language saami,
    sami og s\xE1mi... (but at least it is only called \"samisk\" in norwegian and
    \"samigiela\" in saami/sami/s\xE1mi ;-)"
  created: '2008-03-15 15:11:03'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "Or S\xE1pmi, even, if you\u2019re nominatively inclined. ;-)\r\n\r\n(Doesn\u2019t
    <em>s\xE1migiella</em> have two l\u2019s?)"
  created: '2008-03-15 15:20:25'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "<body>\r\n<p><em>&quot;AGL: Yes, I know all those letters are needed for
    portuguese, but \r\n  are they all considered basic letters? (you must have long
    blackboards in portuguese \r\n  schools ;-) What I&#8217;m looking for is the
    stream of letters a child would \r\n  give you if you asked if it knew the alphabet.&quot;</em><br>\r\n
    \ <br>\r\n  Thanks Roger<br>\r\n  <br>\r\n  Update:<br>\r\n  A to Z, a to z, plus
    numbers. We had to learn it as a manuscript form.</p>\r\n</body>\r\n</html>"
  created: '2008-03-15 15:48:59'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "Ois\xEDn: <cite>Or S\xE1pmi, even, if you\u2019re nominatively inclined.
    ;-)\r\n(Doesn\u2019t s\xE1migiella have two l\u2019s?)</cite>\r\nQuite possibly
    - I don't know how to read/write these languages, only how to design the letters
    ;-)\r\n\r\nAGL: thanks for clearifyng - list updated."
  created: '2008-03-15 16:01:52'
- author:
    name: Grzegorz Rolek
  body: "here goes Polish (32): A\u0104BC\u0106DE\u0118FGHIJKL\u0141MN\u0143O\xD3PRS\u015ATUWYZ\u0179\u017B\r\n\r\nNotice
    that there's no Q, V and X which are used in some foreign words only and can be
    pronounced with KW, W and KS.\r\n\r\n[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polish_alphabet]]"
  created: '2008-03-15 16:06:24'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: "Slovak:\r\n\r\nA, \xC1, \xC4, B, C, \u010C, D, \u010E, DZ, D\u017D, E, \xC9,
    F, G, H, CH, I, \xCD, J, K, L, \u0139, \u013D, M, N, \u0147, O, \xD3, \xD4, P,
    Q, R, \u0154, S, \u0160, T, \u0164, U, \xDA, V, W, X, Y, \xDD, Z, \u017D\r\n\r\nSometimes
    I'm frustrated with the implementations of Central European accented characters
    in typefaces by non-CE designers. I have a client who will use Charter for long
    text purposes. Now see for yourself some of the available versions with CE codepage
    \u2013 this three have\r\n\r\n1) different carons in \u010F, \u013E, \u0165\r\n2)
    different euro sign (please tell me which euro character is best in your opinion)\r\n3)
    different color of carons in \u010D, \u0161, \u017E etc. (darker vs. lighter)\r\n\r\nBT
    Charter Pro\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/bitstream/charter-bt-pro/roman/charmap.html?vid=239841&cpselect=CP5\r\n\r\nITC
    Charter Pro\r\nhttp://www.linotype.com/168474/itccharterproregular-charactermap.html\r\n\r\nITC
    Charter Com\r\nhttp://www.linotype.com/140466/itccharterbylinotypecomregular-charactermap.html\r\n\r\nThe
    amazing thing is, the latter two are both from Linotype."
  created: '2008-03-15 18:00:50'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Esperanto: 28 letters \r\n\r\nABC\u0108DEFG\u011CH\u0124IJ\u0134KLMNOPRS\u015CTU\u016CVZ\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Esperanto\r\nMore
    on the alphabet: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Esperanto_alphabet\r\n\r\nNote:
    I am not an esperanto speaker."
  created: '2008-03-15 18:01:18'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "kontrapunkt: polish added to the list. Thanks!\r\n\r\npattyfab: adding esperanto,
    even though it came from a non-native speaker ;-)\r\nI thought the diacritics
    was pronounciation related, but apparently they're not.\r\n(And might I add: the
    lowercase \u0125 is a nightmare to fit into the design of a font ;-)\r\n\r\nloremipsum:
    Wow! Are all those considered separate letters? None are e.g. accented for modified
    pronounciation or something? So a child listing the alphabet has to differenciate
    between -let me count- 46 letters while learning their A to Z !?\r\nAsking because
    Wikipedia only lists the non-accented letters: <cite>The lexicographic ordering
    of the Slovak alphabet is very similar to that of English: A B C D DZ E F G H
    CH I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z. The complete alphabet, however, allows
    for characters with diacritics.</cite> So, 28 letters... Sounds simpler, but I'm
    not slovak ;-)\r\n\r\nAlso I'm intrigued by the double letters that are considered
    as a single entry in the alphabetical order. Fascinating stuff, this. :-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-15 18:43:01'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABI thought the diacritics was pronounciation related, but apparently
    they\u2019re not.\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nIn Esperanto? Yes, they are.\r\n\r\nc = [ts]
    vs. \u0109 = [t\u0283]\r\ng = [\u0261] vs. \u011D = [d\u0292]\r\nh = [h] vs. \u0125
    = [x <em>or</em> \u03C7]\r\nj = [j] vs. \u0135 = [\u0292]\r\ns = [s] vs. \u015D
    = [\u0283]\r\nu = [u] vs. \u016D = [w] (used only in diphthongs <em>a\u016D</em>
    and <em>e\u016D</em>, and word-initially)"
  created: '2008-03-15 18:55:01'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: There are estimated to be 1000 native Esperanto speakers. Be an interesting
    article or documentary film to find them. Native as opposed to taught. Gotta wonder
    about their parents.
  created: '2008-03-15 19:32:05'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: "Hi Roger, my list is actually copied from Slovak wiki:\r\nhttp://sk.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slovensk\xE1_abeceda\r\n\r\nIt's
    46 letters. Yes, children must learn to read and write them all in the 1st school
    year.\r\n\r\nThe letters represent different sounds.\r\n\r\n\xE1, \xE9, \xED,
    \xF3, \xFA, \xFD are long sounds for a, e, i, o, u, y\r\nE. g. Slovak ice-hockey
    player Marian Gaborik (Minnesota) is actually Mari\xE1n G\xE1bor\xEDk, pronounced
    Maria:n Ga:bori:k\r\n\u013A, \u0155 are long sounds for l, r. Although r is pronounced
    very differently from English r, difference in length between r and \u0155 is
    similar to r in English \"straight\" and \"burn\".\r\nThese long sounds are not
    sorted separately in alphabetic lists.\r\n\r\nCarons: \r\n\u010D is prounounced
    as ch in English \"child\".\r\n\u010F is a little similar to UK pronunciation
    of d in \"dew\". (Uppercase form is \u010E)\r\n\u013E is pronounced similar to
    gl in Italian \"Cagliari\". (Uppercase form is \u013D)\r\n\u0148 is pronounced
    as gn in Italian \"lasagne\", simlar to ny in English \"canyon\"\r\n\u0161 is
    pronounced as sh in \"English\"\r\nE. g. Slovak ice-hockey player Miroslav Satan
    (NY Islanders) is actually Miroslav \u0160atan, no association with Lucifer.\r\n\u0165
    is a little similar to UK pronunciation of t in \"tune\" ((Uppercase form is \u0164)\r\n\u017E
    is pronounced as J in French name \"Jean\" or s in English \"pleasure\".\r\nThese
    are sorted separately in alphabetic lists. \u010C after C, \u010E after D etc.\r\n\r\nThen
    there is dz and d\u017E:\r\ndz is pronounced similar to ds in English \"odds\"\r\nd\u017E
    is pronounced as dg in English \"edge\" or j in \"jam\"\r\nTypography-wise, it
    is not a ligature but simply d followed by z (or \u017E).\r\nDz and D\u017E should
    be sorted separately. But sometimes they are in the end of D-section of alphabetic
    lists.\r\nWritten as DZ and D\u017D when all caps is used.\r\n\r\nCh: written
    as Ch if it is the first letter of names , sentence etc. Written as CH when all
    caps is used.\r\nPronounced as J in Spanish name \"Juan\" or Kh in Russian surname
    Khrushev or ch in Scottish pronunciation of \"Loch Ness\"\r\nCh is placed after
    H in alphabetic lists.\r\n\r\nThen we have \xF4:\r\nit is \"uo\" pronounced simultaneously,
    little similar to uo in English \"quote\".\r\n\r\n\xE4 - pronounced as a in English
    \"mad\". Something between a and e, but majority of native speakers now pronounce
    it as simple e, like in English \"bet\".\r\n\r\ny is pronounced as i - no difference,
    only in written language.\r\nj is pronounced as y in English \"yes\"\r\nw is pronounced
    as v - no difference, only in written language (w is used in the words of foreign
    origin only)\r\n\r\nWhat is much more important, Slovakia has the greatest concentration
    of pretty women in the world. Especially Englishmen and Germans are very often
    embarrassed because of this in the streets of our towns.\r\n\r\nBTW, Slovak model
    Adriana Karembeu-Sklenarikova has Czech surname: it is actually Sklena\u0159\xEDkov\xE1
    with Czech \u0159 character, pronounced as r and z simultaneously.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-15 22:35:38'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "<cite> And unlike in Spanish where Ll, \xD1, and Rr are considered separate
    letters (though Rr is sometimes an exception; it also never occurs initially,
    and thus has no separate dictionay entry)</cite>\r\n\r\nClose, but most native
    speakers get it confused too.  In Spanish the alphabet is (letters not in the
    English alphabet emboldened)\r\n\r\nA B C <strong>Ch</strong> D E F G H I J K
    L <strong>Ll</strong> M N <strong>\xD1</strong> O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z\r\n\r\nPart
    of the reason that the double r is not seen a separate letter is that, in reality,
    it simply represents a normal r, twice.  Two flaps are for all intents and purposes,
    a trill.  A single r is an alveolar flap in most dialects, and a double r is a
    alveolar trill.  In the dialect of Portuguese I learnt, the r is either a flap
    or aspiration, and the double r is another sound entirely, roughly a voiceless
    uvular fricative though not quite exactly the same as the Spanish j.\r\n\r\nDictionaries
    are no longer sorted according to the alphabet, as in 1992 the RAE decided to
    not use the Spanish alphabet for collating purposes, although children are still
    taught the above alphabet. Additionally, each vowel can have an acute accent placed
    over it, though they aren't considered separate letters.  As well the U can take
    a di\xE6resis.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos
    damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-03-16 00:45:45'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABPart of the reason that the double r is not seen a separate letter
    is that, in reality, it simply represents a normal r, twice.\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    don\u2019t doubt that your information is more correct than mine (you\u2019re
    the native speaker, after all), but I have often heard Spanish people spelling
    words like <em>pero</em> and <em>perro</em> as, respectively, \u201CPe E Ere O\u201D
    and \u201CPe E Erre O\u201D, which led me to believe that Rr is (at least in the
    mind of the common man) a separate letter. I\u2019ve never heard a Portugese person
    spell out similar words like \u201CP\xEA \xCA Erre \xD4\u201D.\r\n\r\n(Theoretically,
    I suppose he\u2019d be more inclined to spell it out as \u201CC\xEA A com tilde
    O\u201D, anyways, but that\u2019s a different matter.)\r\n\r\nNot sure exactly
    how I managed to leave Ch out of the list before, though \u2026\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n<cite>\xABDictionaries
    are no longer sorted according to the alphabet\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat, then, length?
    ;-)\r\n\r\nFor some reason, I had never before realised that of the Spanish dictionaries
    I have (not that many, mind, only four), it\u2019s only some of them that are
    sorted according to the alphabet you laid out above, and the way I\u2019ve always
    learned it. My 2001 <em>Peque\xF1o Larousse</em>, for example, lists Ll under
    L and so on. How did I miss this for so many years and still manage to use these
    dictionaries?"
  created: '2008-03-16 01:01:37'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I'm not a native speaker, though I study Spanish academically (native English
    but after living in Spain now my English has noticeably gotten worse mostly in
    syntax)\r\n\r\nAs I mentioned, many people mistakenly think that since LL is a
    letter, that RR is as well, even making its way into games like Scrabble, so as
    you mention, in the minds of the average person it is often thought of as a letter.
    \ I generally say \"erre doble\" when it pops up like I do with t when I inevitably
    have to spell out my obviously foreign name over here (eme a te doble hache e
    uve doble); otherwise they think I'm just repeating myself for emphasis, rather
    than because it actually is a doubled letter. Even for the CH, I generally spell
    Stuckwisch as ese te u ce ca uve doble i ese ce hache, to make sure they heard
    me correctly and because it's not of Spanish origin and thus it actually IS a
    c and an h. (it is possible to have a double R that is not a digraph, such as
    in the word superresponsable, which <em>technically</em> should be supe<strong>rrr</strong>esponsable)
    because it's a flap followed by a separate and in theory distinct trill, but unlike
    the recent German reform, the Spanish realise that three letters like that in
    a row looks kind of silly).\r\n\r\nIn the entry for \xABabecedario\xBB in the
    Diccionario panhisp\xE1nico de dudas (published by the RAE) it mentions the following
    (I'm posting the translation for others, but the original is at rae.es in the
    DPHD \r\n\r\n<strong>alphabet</strong>. 1. To designate the ordered series of
    letters with which ones represents the sounds of a language, the terms abecedary
    and alphabet are used indistinctively.  Like the rest of the romance languages,
    Spanish basically uses the Latin alphabetic series, which was adapted and completed
    over the course of the centuries.  The Spanish alphabet is today formed by the
    twenty-nine following letters: <em>a, b, c, ch, d, e, f, g, h, i, j, k, l, ll,
    m, n, \xF1, o, p, q, r, s, t, u, v, w, x, y, z</em>.\r\n2. This Spanish variant
    of the universal Latin alphabet has been used by the Academy since 1803 (forth
    edition of the academic <em>Dictionary</em>) in the production of all its alphabetized
    lists.  From this date, the digraphs <em>ch</em> and <em>ll</em> (graphic symbols
    composed of two letters) were conventionally considered letters of the alphabet,
    being that each of them represented a single sound.  Nonetheless, in the 10th
    Congress of the Spanish Language Academies Association in 1994, it was agreed
    to adopt the universal latin alphabetic order, in which the <em>ch</em> and <em>ll</em>
    were not considered independent letters.  Consequently, words which begin with
    these two letters, or that contain them, are alphabetized in the corresponding
    spaces under <em>c</em> and <em>l</em>, respectively.  This reform only affects
    the alphabetic ordering process of words, not the composition of the alphabet,
    of which the digraphs <em>ch</em> and <em>ll</em> still form a part.\r\n3. While
    the digraphs <em>ch</em> and <em>ll</em> are the only glyphs that represent, respectively,
    the sounds /ch/ and /ll/, the sound that represents the digraph <em>rr</em> is
    the same a that represented by the <em>r</em> in the initial position of a word,
    or preceded by the consonants <em>n</em>, <em>l</em>, or <em>s</em>.  This overlap
    explains why <em>rr</em> has never been considered one of the letters of the alphabet.
    [<em>My addendum: not to mention that there is a minute difference between intervocalic
    r and the other r-based sounds especially compared to the large distinction that
    the second l or the addition of the h makes</em>]\r\n\r\nYou probably missed it
    because most of us when we don't think about it will instinctively look up a word
    like \"llave\" in the L section.  If we don't find it and say to ourselves \"\xBFqu\xE9
    co\xF1o es este?\" it dawns on us that we need to check the LL section.  Of course
    if it IS in the L section it doesn't cross our minds.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro
    es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB.
    (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-03-16 02:21:08'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "Off topic - To Gulfa:\r\n\r\nYo cre\xEDa qu\xE9 eras espa\xF1ol. (I thought
    you were from Spain)."
  created: '2008-03-16 03:05:26'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "As did I. Must be a combination of your knowledgeable posts on Spanish, your
    (to me, as a completely ignorant sod) knowledgeable posts on Basque, and your
    avatar, which (again, to this particular ignorant sod) looks very Basque or northern
    Spanish.\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n<cite>\xAB(it is possible to have a double R that
    is not a digraph, such as in the word superresponsable, which technically should
    be superrresponsable) because it\u2019s a flap followed by a separate and in theory
    distinct trill, but unlike the recent German reform, the Spanish realise that
    three letters like that in a row looks kind of silly).\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nDo words
    with initial [r] (represented by the letter r alone) not remain unchanged when
    used in compound codas if the compound onset ends in a consonant? If one were
    to join, for example, the prefix <em>sub-</em> with <em>responsable</em>, the
    resulting word would still be only <em>subresponsable</em>, not <em>subrresponsable</em>,
    despite the combination &#x2011;br&#x2011; being usually [\u03B2\u027E] rather
    than [\u03B2r]\u2014wouldn\u2019t it?"
  created: '2008-03-16 03:52:53'
- author:
    name: turbulenz
  body: "Hello,\r\n\r\nI'm a Native Portuguese, and as we do learn the alphabet here
    is not 25 but 26 letters, with the w included although we, not that long ago did
    just care to learn 23 letters, as in ABCDEFGHIJLMNOPQRSTUVXZ, we didn't use the
    remaining 3.\r\n\r\nThis happened because we have a grammar that's based only
    on those 23 letters (plus the accents \xB4`^~, we dont use the \xA8 like brazillian
    portuguese does; the \"nh\" \u2013 equivalent for the spoken \"\xF1\" in spanish
    \u2013 and \"lh\" \u2013 sort of like the spanish \"ll\", but rather unique \u2013
    digraphs). \r\nBut with these foreign language words appropriations into our own
    language and neologisms, the portuguese grammar evolved, so we now include all
    the basic roman alphabet.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-16 07:01:34'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "Hmm. Yes, I was afraid this wouldn't be as easy as learning your A B C ;-)\r\nNice
    explanations and discussions, folks - interesting reading.\r\n\r\nloremipsum:
    added your full list of letters. Impressive! :-)\r\n\r\ngulfa: added spanish\r\n\r\nturbulenz:
    added W to portuguese, thanks for the update!"
  created: '2008-03-16 07:51:55'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Roger, in Finnish alphabet the \xC5 is there only because Swedish is our
    other official language, and for historical reasons there are a lot of Swedish
    names with \xE5 in them. In Finnish language \xE5 is not used at all."
  created: '2008-03-16 08:54:31'
- author:
    name: daniele capo
    picture: 113718
  body: "in Italian\r\na-z abcdefghijlmnopqrstuvz \xE0\xE9\xE8\xEC\xF2\xF9 \xEE\r\nThe
    last one, i.e. \xEE, is used today only in (very) formal writing, in place of
    two i, for example at the end of words like \"principii\".\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-16 10:35:51'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I guess the logical extension of this thread is \"what does your keyboard
    look like?\" I'm always disconcerted when I go to an Internet cafe in a foreign
    country and have to make sense of the keyboard layout.\r\n\r\nHere's the American
    English (unfortunately the PC version, not Mac, was all I could find on wikipedia)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/800px-KB_United_States_Dvorak_5206.svg.png]"
  created: '2008-03-16 16:30:11'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "I mostly use a custom keyboard layout, which looks like this (the four states
    shown are Default, Shift, Alt, and Alt + Shift):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/keyboardlayout_4011.jpg]\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\nThe
    standard Danish keyboard layout (in OS X) looks like this (laptop keyboard):\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/keyboardviewer2_5375.png]"
  created: '2008-03-16 16:42:26'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "Italian \"ABC\" added. Thanks, MiseEnAbime! :-)\r\n\r\nMore?"
  created: '2008-03-16 20:07:05'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "There. I throw in my keyboard :=)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pt_keyboard_5306.gif]"
  created: '2008-03-17 03:34:43'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "tingiminn:\r\n\r\nThe first letter-string is icelandic, then - they learn
    the alphabet from A to \xD6? Added.\r\n(I'm currently reworking a retro/50s script,
    and let me assure you I have made the \xF0 with no exit stroke, even though the
    d has one ;-)\r\n\r\nYour hungarian string has me mightily confused: I gather
    that the two-letter combinations are considered separate (like in slovak) - but
    what about the accented ones? You have E,\xC9 as separate entries, but the other
    acutes are together with their plain form - and the dieresis/double umlaut are
    considered separate from the plain/acute, but similar to each other?"
  created: '2008-03-17 09:34:38'
- author:
    name: erhan
  body: "Here goes Turkish <a href=\"http://tr.wikipedia.org/wiki/T\xFCrk_Alfabesi\">alfabe</a>\r\nABC\xC7DEFG\u011EHI\u0130JKLMNO\xD6PRS\u015ETU\xDCVYZ\r\n29
    letters, A to Z."
  created: '2008-03-17 13:08:17'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: Thanks, erhan - Turkish added :-)
  created: '2008-03-17 15:50:47'
- author:
    name: ArmandoCcs
  body: "Actually, in Spanish it goes like this:\r\n\r\nABCDEFGHIJKLMN\xD1OPQRTUVWXYZ\r\n\r\nCh
    and Ll are no longer considered letter by themselves. Ch is 'filed' under C, and
    Ll under L."
  created: '2008-03-17 16:04:10'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: Thanks for the input, ArmandoCcs - I've updated the entry for Spanish, listing
    Ch and Ll as alternates (like for some of the other entries).
  created: '2008-03-17 16:27:43'
- author:
    name: pica pica
    picture: 110785
  body: "A native on the hungarian alphabet :)\r\n\r\nHas 44 letters:\r\n\r\na, \xE1,
    b, c, cs, d, dz, dzs, e, \xE9, f, g, gy, h, i, \xED, j, k, l, ly, m, n, ny, o,
    \xF3, \xF6, \u0151, p, q, r, s, sz, t, ty, u, \xFA, \xFC, \u0171, v, w, x, y,
    z, zs\r\n\r\n\r\n4 special glyphs with double acute called (not surprisingly)
    \"hungarumlaut\":\r\n\r\nohungarumlaut (0151)   \r\nOhungarumlaut (0150)\r\nuhungarumlaut
    (0171)\r\nUhungarumlaut (0170)\r\n\r\n\r\nEight digraphs: Cs, Dz, Gy, Ly, Ny,
    Sz, Ty, Zs\r\nand one trigraph: Dzs\r\n\r\n\r\nWikipedia article:\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hungarian_alphabet\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-17 18:13:10'
- author:
    name: tingiminn
  body: n/m. n/t.
  created: '2008-03-18 09:54:57'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "<cite>Do words with initial [r] (represented by the letter r alone) not remain
    unchanged when used in compound codas if the compound onset ends in a consonant?
    If one were to join, for example, the prefix sub- with responsable, the resulting
    word would still be only subresponsable, not subrresponsable, despite the combination
    \u2011br\u2011 being usually [\u03B2\u027E] rather than [\u03B2r]\u2014wouldn\u2019t
    it</cite>\r\nLike you said, it does depend on what the final letter of the prefix
    is, and while it can change slightly depending on dialect, traditionally it is
    N, L, and S in front of an R.  A word like \"cederrom\" has the double R (just
    being a pronounced out version of \"CDROM\").  Of course I'm rather lacking in
    examples at the moment otherwise (I need my morning coffee).  It doesn't come
    up much but every once in a while. \r\n\r\n<cite>Yo cre\xEDa qu\xE9 eras espa\xF1ol.
    (I thought you were from Spain).</cite>\r\nPues de momento vivo en la periferia
    de Madrid, pero soy alabame\xF1o.  I did my BA in New Media and Spanish, but my
    masters I'm working on is just in Spanish literature and I took a year off to
    come work in Spain <em>in theory</em> to finish up my thesis while relaxing a
    bit outside of university life.  There's been a bit more of relaxing than writing
    though...\r\n\r\n<cite>Ch and Ll are no longer considered letter by themselves.
    Ch is \u2019filed\u2019 under C, and Ll under L.</cite>\r\nThey are still considered
    letters, just not for collation (filing) purposes:\r\n\r\n\u201CThis reform only
    affects the alphabetic ordering process of words, not the composition of the alphabet,
    of which the digraphs ch and ll still form a part.\u201D (orig: Esta reforma afecta
    \xFAnicamente al proceso de ordenaci\xF3n alfab\xE9tica de las palabras, no a
    la composici\xF3n del abecedario, del que los d\xEDgrafos ch y ll siguen formando
    parte.)\r\n \r\nThe Spanish alphabet is today formed by the twenty-nine following
    letters: a, b, c, ch, d, e, f, g, h, i, j, k, l, ll, m, n, \xF1, o, p, q, r, s,
    t, u, v, w, x, y, z. (orig: El abecedario espa\xF1ol est\xE1 hoy formado por las
    veintinueve letras siguientes: a, b, c, ch, d, e, f, g, h, i, j, k, l, ll, m,
    n, \xF1, o, p, q, r, s, t, u, v, w, x, y, z )\r\n\r\nBoth quotes are from the
    on-line copy of the first edition (2005) of the Diccionario panhisp\xE1nico de
    dudas published by the Real Academia Espa\xF1ola in collaboration with the other
    twenty-one national Academias de la Lengua Espa\xF1ola in Latin American and elsewhere.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-03-18 10:18:32'
- author:
    name: cdemetriadis
  body: "Greek, 24 letters: (\u0391 to \u03A9) => \u0391\u0392\u0393\u0394\u0395\u0396\u0397\u0398\u0399\u039A\u039B\u039C\u039D\u039E\u039F\u03A0\u03A1\u03A3\u03A4\u03A5\u03A6\u03A7\u03A8\u03A9"
  created: '2008-03-18 15:05:32'
- author:
    name: mr
    picture: 112699
  body: "<em>There are estimated to be 1000 native Esperanto speakers. Be an interesting
    article or documentary film to find them. Native as opposed to taught. Gotta wonder
    about their parents.</em>\r\n\r\nPattyfab, most of the parents have Esperanto
    as their common language (e.g., mom speaks French and Esperanto but dad speaks
    English, German and Esperanto). There is quite a community around Esperanto, and
    many people do marry people they meet at Esperanto conferences.\r\n\r\n(Mi parolas
    esperanton, sed ne denaske)"
  created: '2008-03-18 16:24:39'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "pica pica: OK, all 44 letters for hungarian, then. :-)\r\n\r\ntingiminn:
    ???\r\n\r\ngulfa: thanks for the additional info.\r\nMay we have a third vote
    for the spanish alphabet, please...? ;-)\r\n\r\ncdemetriadis: I wondered when
    the first non-latin alphabet would turn up. No problem, unicode makes it easy
    to add. Thanks! ;-)"
  created: '2008-03-18 20:15:45'
- author:
    name: Manlio Napoli
    picture: 111362
  body: "Croatian: 30 letters (A to \u017D) => A B C \u010C \u0106 D D\u017E \u0110
    E F G H I J K L Lj M N Nj O P R S \u0160 T U V Z \u017D"
  created: '2008-03-18 21:16:18'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "A more interesting (latin) alphabet: Hawaiian.\r\n\r\nA E I O U H K L M N
    P W \u02BB\r\n\r\nYes, that's what looks like an apostrophe of sorts at the end
    and yes it's a letter, called <em>okina</em>.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una
    l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB.
    (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-03-19 00:26:29'
- author:
    name: Typical
    picture: 112513
  body: "The below facilitates lossless transliteration of Devan\u0101gar\u012B (Hindi,
    Sanskrit, Pali, etc), following the order of the devanagari alphabet. I believe
    there are other diacritics used in classical Sanskrit.\r\n\r\na, \u0101, i, \u012B,
    u, \u016B, \u1E5B, \u1E5D, \u1E37, \u1E39, e, ai o, au, \u1E43, \u1E25\r\nk, kh,
    g, gh, \u1E45\r\nc, ch, j, jh, \xF1\r\n\u1E6D, \u1E6Dh, \u1E0D, \u1E0D\u1E25,
    \u1E47\r\nt, th, d, dh, n\r\np, ph, b, bh, m\r\ny, r, l, v\r\n\u015B, \u1E63,
    s\r\nh\r\n\r\nOr, in addition to \"regular\" letters, \u0101\u0100\u1E0D\u1E0C\u1E25\u1E24\u012B\u012A\u1E37\u1E39\u1E38\u1E36\u1E43\u1E42\u1E41\u1E40\u1E45\u1E44\xF1\xD1\u1E47\u1E46\u1E5B\u1E5A\u1E5D\u1E5C\u1E63\u1E62\u015B\u015A\u1E6D\u1E6C\u016B\u016A\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-19 07:28:18'
- author:
    name: rjordanov
    picture: 114545
  body: "Bulgarian/Cyrillic Alphabet\r\n\u0410\u0411\u0412\u0413\u0414\u0415\u0416\u0417\u0418\u0419\u041A\u041B\u041C\u041D\u041E\u041F\u0420\u0421\u0422\u0423\u0424\u0425\u0426\u0427\u0428\u0429\u042A\u042C\u042E\u042F\r\n\u0430\u0431\u0432\u0433\u0434\u0435\u0436\u0437\u0438\u0439\u043A\u043B\u043C\u043D\u043E\u043F\u0440\u0441\u0442\u0443\u0444\u0445\u0446\u0447\u0448\u0449\u044A\u044C\u044E\u044F\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-19 09:12:39'
- author:
    name: Claudine
    picture: 114546
  body: "Hello! I am new here. The Philippine alphabet has all the letters in the
    Spanish alphabet + Ng. Ng comes after \xD1. :D"
  created: '2008-03-19 09:26:43'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "In Typical's transliterated Devanagari alphabet, note that the distinction
    of capitalization doesn't actually exist in Devanagari, so the capitals are only
    used to follow certain romanized conventions. \r\n\r\nAnd, as I'm sure is probably
    true of some other alphabets, there are certain Devanagari letters which will
    never appear at the beginning of a word, and so the capital transliterated form
    is truly only theoretical. At least not in Sanskrit; there might be some Hindi
    or Pali conventions that I'm not aware of.\r\n\r\nAlso, Typical has, in his bottom
    summary, listed both m-underdot and m-overdot (sorry, I don't know how to enter
    the glyphs here) -- but I believe that those are both just alternatives for transliterating
    anusvara and are not two different members of the alphabet (and may be exclusive
    of one another, depending upon the transliteration scheme).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-19 12:59:39'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "Manlio Napoli: Croatian ABC added. Thanks! :-)\r\n\r\ngulfa: You sure got
    lots of language info ;-)\r\nHawaiian added, but I would like to get it confirmed
    by someone FROM Hawaii - although perhaps the situation may be like for e.g. irish:
    they learn the english alphabet, so their local language is not teached alone
    as such?\r\n\r\nTypical & kentlew: Interesting, but a bit beside what I'm looking
    for - I want to know how children learn and list the alphabet they learn at school.
    Transliterations are for grownups ;-)\r\n\r\nworkandsupper: Welcome! :-)\r\nEr...
    Do the Philippine alphabet use the spanish alphabet including the ch and ll -
    or excluding them? ;-)"
  created: '2008-03-19 16:53:17'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "Since only North Sami (Davvis\xE1pmi) has been covered in this thread, here\u2019s
    the Skolt Sami alphabet (which is a bit different), as well (37 letters, A to
    \xB4):\r\n\r\n\u0410\u0430 [\u0251]\r\n\xC2\xE2 [\u0250]\r\nBb [b]\r\nCc [t\u200B\u0361s]\r\n\u010C\u010D
    [t\u200B\u0361\u0283]\r\n\u01B7\u0292 [d\u200B\u0361z]\r\n\u01EE\u01EF [d\u200B\u0361\u0292]\r\nDd
    [d]\r\n\u0110\u0111 [\xF0]\r\nEe [e/\u025B]\r\nFf [f]\r\nGg [g]\r\n\u01E6\u01E7
    [\u025F\u200B\u0361\u029D]\r\n\u01E4\u01E5 [\u0263]\r\nHh [h/x]\r\nIi [i] (or
    [j] as a semi-vowel)\r\nJj [\u029D]\r\nKk [k]\r\n\u01E8\u01E9 [c\u200B\u0361\xE7]\r\nLl
    [l]\r\nMm [m]\r\nNn [n]\r\n\u014A\u014B [\u014B]\r\nOo [o]\r\n\xD5\xF5 [\u0258]\r\nPp
    [p]\r\nRr [r]\r\nSs [s]\r\n\u0160\u0161 [\u0283]\r\nTt [t]\r\nUu [u] (or [w] as
    a semi-vowel)\r\nVv [v]\r\nZz [z]\r\n\u017D\u017E [\u0292]\r\n\xC5\xE5 [\u0254]\r\n\xC4\xE4
    [a]\r\n\u02CA (softener mark)\r\n\r\nThe softener mark, typographically identical
    to a free-standing acute accent (which makes it ugly as hell\u2014what\u2019s
    wrong with using a simple apostrophe or even an &#x02BB;okina as in Hawai&#x02BB;ian?)
    and indicates that the syllable in which it\u2019s found is suprasegmentally palatalised,
    meaning that vowels are slightly fronted and consonants are slightly palatalised."
  created: '2008-03-19 18:23:49'
- author:
    name: somol
    picture: 113622
  body: "Czech:\r\n\r\nA, \xC1, B, C, \u010C, D, \u010E, E, \xC9, \u011A, F, G, H,
    CH, I, \xCD, J, K, L, M, N, \u0147, O, \xD3,\r\nP, Q, R, \u0158, S, \u0160, T,
    \u0164, U, \xDA, \u016E, V, W, X, Y, \xDD, Z, \u017D\r\n\r\nNote the \"CH\", which
    is considered a separate character. Sounds like if\r\nthe Spanish read J in Javier."
  created: '2008-03-19 19:49:11'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I for a long time was working on a multilingual version of Hangman for OS
    X, so I've already done quite a bit of the research presented here :)  Korean
    has an interesting facet of having both a different order and a different definition
    of what is a letter and what is simply a variation of letter between the two Koreas,
    for instance, and I had to make two separate versions.\r\n\r\nOne of these days
    I should go back and finish it or at least get it to a beta release.  \r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-03-20 00:29:53'
- author:
    name: Typical
    picture: 112513
  body: "Thanks, Kentlew, for the correction about the two ems. I pasted the lines
    of letters from a file that I use for checking diacritic coverage in fonts. \r\n\r\nI
    should add that this particular romanization method is the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IAST|IAST]]."
  created: '2008-03-20 06:59:22'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "Ois\xEDn: skolt saami ABC added. Not sure if its approx 400 users learn it
    at school as their primary language, though - I suspect they bolt it on to the
    swedish alphabet somehow.\r\nThere are a few more Saami dialects spoken in Norway
    as well, but they learn the norwegian alphabet and language as their main one...Hmm...
    Keeping out of the politics of this ;-)\r\n\r\nsomol: Czech ABC added. I could
    ask you if the diacritical letters really are considered separate letters, but
    as both hungarian and slovak do I just assume that eastern european languages
    generally HAVE extremely long alphabets, and that their \"my first ABC\" books
    are really thick ;-)"
  created: '2008-03-20 08:27:56'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: Roger, I think Skolt is mainly spoken in Finland, not Sweden.
  created: '2008-03-20 09:23:24'
- author:
    name: acnapyx
    picture: 113394
  body: "Well, we should add also the <strong>Russian</strong> variation of the Cyrillic
    (close to the basic cyrillic, but with some vowels added):\r\n\u0410\u0411\u0412\u0413\u0414\u0415<strong>\u0401</strong>\u0416\u0417\u0418\u0419\u041A\u041B\u041C\u041D\u041E\u041F\u0420\u0421\u0422\u0423\u0424\u0425\u0426\u0427\u0428\u0429\u042A<strong>\u042B</strong>\u042C<strong>\u042D</strong>\u042E\u042F\r\n\u0430\u0431\u0432\u0433\u0434\u0435<strong>\u0451</strong>\u0436\u0437\u0438\u0439\u043A\u043B\u043C\u043D\u043E\u043F\u0440\u0441\u0442\u0443\u0444\u0445\u0446\u0447\u0448\u0449\u044A<strong>\u044B</strong>\u044C<strong>\u044D</strong>\u044E\u044F\r\n\r\nMore
    info on this [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russian_alphabet|Russian Alphabet
    Wiki]]."
  created: '2008-03-20 09:59:40'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "English: 26 letters (A to Z) => ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ\xE9\xE0\xF1\r\n\r\nhummm
    it's like D\xE9j\xE0 vu all over again. there are many French words in English!
    \xE9\xE0\r\nWhatever happened to El Ni\xF1o?  \xF1\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-20 15:37:04'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "fredo: yup, apparently I got that all wrong (shouldn't post such things before
    checking facts  :*)\r\nSkolt saami is apparently spoken in parts of Norway, Finland
    and Russia - but not in Sweden :-D\r\n\r\nacnapyx: Russian added. Thanks!\r\n\r\nvinceconnare:
    already had english in, but without the diacritical letters needed for loanwords.
    I'm pretty sure the kids in english-speaking countries learn that the english
    alphabet has 26 letters - A to Z ;-)"
  created: '2008-03-20 19:16:16'
- author:
    name: Claudine
    picture: 114546
  body: "Roger S. Nelsson: Er... Do the Philippine alphabet use the spanish alphabet
    including the ch and ll - or excluding them? ;-)\r\n\r\n(Very late reply. Apologies.
    :|) \r\n\r\nLet me make a correction. I meant English, not Spanish. I just realized
    that there are a lot more other characters in the Spanish alphabet that we don't
    use. This means we use A-Z, plus \xD1 and Ng. :)\r\n\r\nHowever there are a huge
    number of local dialects spoken in the Philippines, and each has a different alphabet.
    :)"
  created: '2009-05-05 10:41:08'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "In Old Russian:\r\n\r\n\u0410-\u0430\u0437 \u0411-\u0431\u0443\u043A\u0438
    \u0412-\u0432\u0435\u0434\u0438 \u0413-\u0433\u043B\u0430\u0433\u043E\u043B\u044C
    \u0414-\u0434\u043E\u0431\u0440\u043E \u0415-\u0435\u0441\u0442\u044C \u0416-\u0436\u0438\u0432\u0435\u0442\u0435
    \u0405-\u0437\u0435\u043B\u043E \u0417-\u0437\u0435\u043C\u043B\u044F \u0418-\u0438\u0436\u0435
    \u0406-\u0438 \u041A-\u043A\u0430\u043A\u043E \u041B-\u043B\u044E\u0434\u0438
    \u041C-\u043C\u044B\u0441\u043B\u0435\u0442\u0435 \u041D-\u043D\u0430\u0448 \u041E-\u043E\u043D
    \u041F-\u043F\u043E\u043A\u043E\u0439 \u0420-\u0440\u0446\u044B \u0421-\u0441\u043B\u043E\u0432\u043E
    \u0422-\u0442\u0432\u0435\u0440\u0434\u043E \u041E\u0423-\u0443\u043A \u0424-\u0444\u0435\u0440\u0442
    \u0425-\u0445\u0435\u0440 \u0460-\u043E\u043C\u0435\u0433\u0430 \u0426-\u0446\u044B
    \u0427-\u0447\u0435\u0440\u0432\u044C \u0428-\u0448\u0430 \u0429-\u0449\u0430
    \u042A-\u0435\u0440 \uA650-\u0435\u0440\u044B \u042C-\u0435\u0440\u044C \u0462-\u044F\u0442\u044C
    \u042E-\u044E \u0466-\u044E\u0441(four varieties) \u046E-\u043A\u0441\u0438 \u0470-\u043F\u0441\u0438
    \u0472-\u0444\u0438\u0442\u0430 \u0474-\u0438\u0436\u0438\u0446\u0430\r\n\r\n\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2009-05-05 19:32:33'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Not suprising, there is no Slovenian yet.\r\n\r\nalphabet: ABC\u010CDEFGHIJKLMNOPRS\u0160TUVZ\u017D\r\n\r\n(these
    are basics, it gets more complicated)"
  created: '2009-05-05 20:16:03'
date: '2008-03-15 10:20:15'
node_type: forum
title: How goes the "ABC" in your country/language?

---
