---
author:
  name: Curioustype
  picture: 112066
body: "... opening adobe acrobat, choose \"Edit\" from the menu, and click on \"Preferences.\"\r\n\r\nOnce
  there, click on \"convert to PDF.\" In the window directly to the right, click on
  \"postscript/eps.\" go down to the edit settings button and click it. when the window
  opens, go to \"high quality\" in the menu. click \"edit.\" go to fonts tab and uncheck
  \"embed all fonts.\" in this same window, click \"save as.\" enter a name. close
  acrobat.\r\n\r\nThen, create a font sample in photoshop. Once finished, change your
  default printer and print to pdf. When doing so, click on the \"properties\" tab
  and uncheck \"Do not send fonts to Adobe PDF.\" Then click on properties tab and
  in the menu labeled \"Adobe PDF conversion settings,\" click on the settings you
  just saved. Print. Open pdf file. You should see that your fonts maintain the same
  high visual quality as an embedded font but under the file properties menu choice
  and fonts tab, there will be no fonts listed - and thus no fonts to extract.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately
  the only money I'll make off this is when my fonts aren't pirated from the pdf samples
  I'm fixing to create. My gift to all of you.  .... Or a sign of my ignorance for
  not figuring this out sooner."
comments:
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: If i can get this to work, this should be an example of the results.
  created: '2008-03-17 00:08:36'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: OK how the hell do I attach pdfs to this site? Everytime I attach the file
    and hit submit, it disappears in the post.
  created: '2008-03-17 00:13:42'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: I can't get a pdf to post. you'll just have to try it for yourself to see
    for a little bit.
  created: '2008-03-17 00:30:44'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Wouldn\u2019t it be a lot less trouble to just generate the PDF in Indesign
    and convert the text to outlines?"
  created: '2008-03-17 01:35:27'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Yepp.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-03-17 01:38:42'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "I agree - if one used InDesign. This process is just as easy, however, once
    all the initial settings are employed; and perhaps more viable since Photoshop
    seems to be more prevalent than InDesign. The big question, however, is why more
    people don't know or do either of these things. I would for my own edification,
    however, like to see a pdf created in the manner you describe. \r\n\r\nI don't
    question its applicability in the least - only if the level of visual quality
    is equal in both scenarios, and/or if there are any backdoors, so to speak, to
    extract fonts from a pdf created in the manner you describe. Whatever the case,
    given the degree of pilfering out there, this is knowledge every typographer should
    have and employ when producing these samples, regardless of the method used. Apparently
    from what I've been told, there is a way for someone to obtain from the myfonts.com
    site the entire list of kerning pairs for the fonts sold there and if a sample
    pdf has an embedded font and not merely a subset, the result is far more usable
    than most here seem to think."
  created: '2008-03-17 03:24:50'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Given that just about every font ever produced can be found online somewhere
    with a lot less effort than it takes to dig it out of a PDF, this is all sort
    of a moot point. I think that anyone willing to get into extracting characters
    from PDF specimens and combining them with kerning tables extracted from web apps
    probably knows enough about computers to get a font from a torrent aggregator
    or usenet, which takes a lot less time and effort.
  created: '2008-03-17 04:11:45'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "Absolutely no doubt about that last comment. Still, it does not apply to
    those fonts yet to be distributed or released. Including those being critiqued
    on this very site. I believe you'll find that some of the greatest typefaces -
    which haven't been distributed in an extractable pdf form - are nearly impossible
    to come by in any way other than purchase. \r\n\r\nThere has been much debate
    over the functionality of extracted fonts, and most see it as no big deal because
    of a lack of kerning, etc. I'm convinced, however, that 75 percent of font purchasers
    either don't know what kerning is, don't care, or both. It's a subtle yet definite
    epidemic and costing typographers exponentially more revenue than people here
    seem to think. A typographer with expert knowledge on the issue of kerning will
    more than likely believe a font is worthless without it and doesn't see the danger.
    Most buyers, however, couldn't define what kerning is much less insist on a font
    having impeccable kerning - or any at all for that matter.\r\n\r\nNot to mention
    if given the choice, in my opinion, between buying a beautifully kerned font for
    $35 or extracting an unkerned font for free, someone will be losing that much
    money probably 90 percent of the time. I doubt people who spend money on fonts
    then turn around and give it away to a bunch of people unwilling to pay for it.\r\n\r\nFor
    example, I believe Font Farm has beautiful typefaces, including Kofi, etc., but
    few if any of their fonts are being circulated by pirates. Why? Check out the
    website. Download the pdfs. Google the font name, designer's name, foundry's name,
    etc., and look for some. Does this mean bigger profits for Font Farm? Who knows?
    But I am relatively certain this kind of unavailability in the long run convinces
    a would-be torrent downloader or pirate to break down and buy the font if they
    really love it. The semantics are arguable, but the frame of mind of potential
    buyers with some computer knowledge can't be. He or she invariably will look first
    to see if it can be obtained for free, even spending months at a time doing so,
    before considering a purchase if they do at all.\r\n\r\nI'm no zealot or anything,
    but for Pete's sake, when extracting can be made nearly extinct in a few basic
    steps like the two methods described above, it should be protocol."
  created: '2008-03-17 04:35:03'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: If this is proved true I want to post this has a hot topic!
  created: '2008-03-17 07:11:10'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "You could just make a JPG and throw it in a PDF document\u2026\r\n\r\nBut
    really, the reason for keeping it vector is to be able to zoom into the finer
    points and it not be pixelated, which you lose in a raster conversion. Wether
    it's outlined or an embedded font. Personally, I think outlining is a much faster
    and straightforward process, and if people are going to go through the pains of
    unlocking and extracting fonts, you bet they'd sooner turn to usenet or a torrent
    site to grab it. \r\n\r\nI don't see unreleased fonts in PDF's being a big market
    for someone to waste time on. For one they're unfinished, and why waste time on
    an incomplete product when you can wait to get it in a few months. Considering
    the limited scope in which a test PDF would even be available to, I'd trust they
    weren't trying to rip you off. Aside from here, friends, and a few other type
    designers I don't see a test sample document really being out there to the general
    public, and one would hope that in that small group of people that font pirating
    from a PDF would not be an issue. "
  created: '2008-03-17 16:08:43'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>I believe you\u2019ll find that some of the greatest typefaces - which
    haven\u2019t been distributed in an extractable pdf form - are nearly impossible
    to come by in any way other than purchase.</em>\r\n\r\nReally? Then why can H&FJ
    and Enschede's fonts be found on warez sites. AFAIK, these foundries don't provide
    PDFs on their sites. (Enschede actually has sample sheets in PDF format, but these
    are made of 600dpi bitmaps)\r\n\r\n> <em>For example, I believe Font Farm has
    beautiful typefaces, including Kofi, etc., but few if any of their fonts are being
    circulated by pirates. Why?</em>\r\n\r\nMaybe because Font Farm is not as know
    as other foundries...\r\n\r\n> <em>But I am relatively certain this kind of unavailability
    in the long run convinces a would-be torrent downloader or pirate to break down
    and buy the font if they really love it. The semantics are arguable, but the frame
    of mind of potential buyers with some computer knowledge can\u2019t be. He or
    she invariably will look first to see if it can be obtained for free, even spending
    months at a time doing so, before considering a purchase if they do at all.</em>\r\n\r\nGeneralization
    with too many assumptions.\r\n\r\n> <em>I\u2019m no zealot or anything, but for
    Pete\u2019s sake, when extracting can be made nearly extinct in a few basic steps
    like the two methods described above, it should be protocol.</em>\r\n\r\nIf your
    goal was to protect the outlines, I'm sorry to say you've failed miserably. Just
    try opening your PDFs with Illustrator.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-17 19:27:46'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "\"Then why can H&FJ and Enschede\u2019s fonts be found on warez sites. AFAIK,
    these foundries don\u2019t provide PDFs on their sites.\"\r\n\r\nNo, their fonts
    just appear in extractable PDFs from Newspapers and Magazines from India to Indiana.
    Additionally, these two foundries have much longer histories and far more experience
    ... and thus have had many typefaces out there in some fashion for a lot longer
    than Font Farm. I think Textaxis - which indisputably produces incredible work
    - also can be put in this category.\r\n\r\n\"Maybe because Font Farm is not as
    know as other foundries...\"\r\n\r\nHave you ever once taken the time to visit
    the font forums on any of these \"warez\" sites? Have you ever looked through
    some of the requests posted on usenet? More people are clamoring for fonts from
    Textaxis and Font Farm than any others out there. In fact, these requests have
    decreased over time because people are aware of the difficulty in ever obtaining
    fonts from these foundries. Unfortunately, some of the work on the Textaxis site
    was stripped from the flash pages there, and for a brief period, a few Font Farm
    typefaces were \"posted.\" However, the reproduction of all these fonts was so
    poor, they hardly resembled the original font.\r\n\r\n\"Generalization with too
    many assumptions.\"\r\n\r\nWell, Miguel, I will go ahead and tell you this, then:
    if you find no value in using alternate methods when producing font samples/books
    in pdf format, by all means continue along your present course. And that goes
    for pretty much everyone. I'm certainly not trying to introduce a new bill to
    Congress here, I'm simply describing what I've encountered in my experiences and
    shining a little light on the \"real world\" that some typographers seem to believe
    doesn't exist.\r\n\r\nSecondly, what you identify as generalization with too many
    assumptions is in fact a direct statement made after actually witnessing it all.
    So I'm going to guess, Miguel, that when it comes to just about anything you either
    use or consume - or even enjoy - you'd turn your nose away from what to the best
    of your knowledge is a free, equal-quality, identical version of an item in favor
    of paying in some cases exorbidant prices for the \"real thing.\" To many, these
    extracts are just that - exactly the same. So what if they don't understand kerning
    ... no one's obliged to appreciate its benefits.\r\n\r\n\"Just try opening your
    PDFs with Illustrator.\"\r\n\r\nAnd then do what? Assuming you produced a pdf
    correctly using either of the two above methods and you open it in Illustrator,
    how would you then go about extracting the fonts? What I've described here is
    one potential method, and I believe a second also was provided.\r\n\r\nIn case
    you have any further doubts of the seriousness of this, let me say here that in
    the future you are alll but assured of running into more and more PDF samples
    that look beautiful but under document properties in Acrobat have no fonts listed.\r\n\r\nThis
    certainly wreaks of deja-vu, as I seem to remember several other occasions in
    which I've been called to the carpet by Miguel. To which I can only say, Miguel
    my original intent was to be of some kind of assistance to other typographers
    and relate to them what I've run into when going through the warez sites and usenet.
    \r\n\r\nFor you to disparage my comments as assumption, from where I sit, would
    first require you to a.) have spent the kind of time I have researching these
    things and b.) KNOW in a factual sense I was \"assuming.\" I sincerely doubt that,
    so rather than accuse someone of making assumptions, perhaps you could refrain
    from making accusations that in fact are only YOUR assumptions. Forgive me, but
    it makes me dizzy to hear one essentially say \"I'm assuming your making assumptions.\"\r\n\r\nLike
    I said, however, by all means - go right ahead and continue embedding your fonts
    in those pdf samples if you elect to create them. Spread them around the Internet.
    I'm sure you do some beautiful work. While doing so, however, consider how you'd
    answer this question: How much more time and work would it be to protect fonts
    in pdfs, and if the answer is little to none, then tell me which pdf creation
    has the potential of resulting in more harm to you? Once this method of protection
    is routine knowledge and unassailable, what sensible person would even consider
    creating an extractable pdf? It's blue pill-red pill stuff at its most pure and
    only someone ignorant would base the choice of what they take on the color of
    the pill rather than its content and potential benefit. \r\n\r\nI apologize for
    being long-winded here, but what was the epitome of a take-it-or-leave-it post
    and observation - especially one presented for the purpose of assistance - certainly
    doesn't warrant such disparaging, cynical response."
  created: '2008-03-17 20:19:12'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Look Christopher, I appreciate you coming here and share a procedure that
    you make sound as if is a no-brainer that will solve all our problems, when in
    fact it isn't, IMO. The reason I'm dismissive is because I've seen one too many
    threads like yours, started by people that all of a sudden find out that it's
    possible to extract (crippled) fonts from PDFs, SWFs, etc., and make alarm-sounding
    posts as if they were on a quest to save the World.\r\n\r\nIf the procedure you
    described is the one that works best for you, great! But I think that, if you're
    worried about people making crippled versions of your fonts by extracting data
    from PDFs, I'd say you're better off reducing the number of characters used when
    composing the typeface sample, and then generate the PDF using subsetting embedding.
    This is what many foundries do."
  created: '2008-03-17 22:11:30'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "\"But I think that, if you\u2019re worried about people making crippled versions
    of your fonts by extracting data from PDFs, I\u2019d say you\u2019re better off
    reducing the number of characters used when composing the typeface sample, and
    then generate the PDF using subsetting embedding\"\r\n\r\nIf it first required
    me to carry a Volkswagen Beetle up a hill before I had the ability to produce
    unextractable pdfs, I wouldn't be dumb enough to start scouting hills. However,
    when it requires pushing a few buttons almost the same number of times to create
    one or the other, I not only can produce a secure .pdf, there would be no need
    to reduce anything I wanted to present, including the number of characters. That's
    my point, Miguel. \r\n\r\nLet's for argument's sake say neither of the above methods
    is foolproof. I'd still swear that either of them  makes extracting a font 10
    times harder. And when you consider the disparity in visual quality is microscopic,
    you could create a pdf the same way you've always done it and instead of hitting
    Button X six times to produce a pdf with embedded fonts, you could hit button
    Y six times and produce a pdf just a nice looking but 10 times more difficult
    from which to strip fonts.\r\n\r\n\"if you\u2019re worried about people making
    crippled versions of your fonts\"\r\n\r\nThis is the least of my concerns. My
    only worry is about the people who don't buy them. I could feel like these people
    are getting crippled, worthless versions of my font, but what I think of it doesn't
    mean crap when those people couldn't even point out what makes it crippled in
    the first place. At that moment it goes from being what you've identified as crying
    wolf straight to being a loss of $35 for the good guys, if that's what my font
    cost.\r\n\r\nBy the way, I've known for years that \"crippled\" fonts can be extracted
    from PDFs. However, I also know that a.) you still haven't described how to extract
    a font once you've opened \"my\" .pdf in Illustrator and b.) these \"crippled\"
    can definitely be made to walk again by the automatic metrics and kerning functions
    in Font Lab in minutes ... even if it is with a small limp.\r\n\r\nI must say
    I am confused by your approach and reasoning. To me this is like hearing a bad-sounding
    noise in your engine. Yes, you could keep driving, save time, get there faster,
    and eventually grow to block out the noise. Thing is, that noise is not going
    to correct itself ... it will continue to get worse."
  created: '2008-03-18 00:18:19'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: As an aside, discovering this method was far from a "no-brainer." Just ask
    my recycle bin and the literally hundreds of pdfs it was fed for a couple of days.
    Even then I stumbled on the method purely by luck and still have to read through
    and perform the steps myself when testing it further. As for solving everyone's
    problems, recent research has shown me a few people here know at least one way
    to make extraction nearly if not completely impossible. Font Farm has BEEN doing
    it. I believe even FontShop is beginning to produce sample pdfs in this fashion.
    What I know for certain, however, is none of those people were disclosing their
    secrets to me, this site or any other site that I've come across and/or been able
    to comprehend. I can't say I've looked under rocks on each of the four corners
    of the Earth, either.
  created: '2008-03-18 00:20:20'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "Curves (vector) in PDFs are extractable. You can safe a PDF and edit properties,
    so that the document can only be modified by providing a password... No matter
    what you do, there is always the someone knowledgeable who  can open, extract...\r\n\r\nA
    good way could be just low res grey scale tifs (200 dpi or so with compression).
    Problem is, a pdf file with a bunch of images is big file...\r\n\r\nRegards\r\n\r\n-Andre"
  created: '2008-03-18 01:06:39'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>This is the least of my concerns. My only worry is about the people
    who don\u2019t buy them.</em>\r\n\r\nOK, so generating the PDFs like you suggest
    is the key to make a given person buy the fonts instead of extracting them from
    PDFs, assuming that he/she knows how to do it? Please, give me a break...\r\n\r\nChristopher,
    this discussion is going nowhere. You have your convictions, and I have mine.
    Many people that run foundries read Typophile. Many of these foundries put out
    PDFs to show their typefaces. If what you say is true, we shall see a shift in
    the way they generate their PDFs, and consequently a reduction on the frequency
    that their fonts show up on sharing sites, particularly the new releases. So,
    let's wait and see. With that said, I rest my case."
  created: '2008-03-18 01:13:34'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "Fair enough. One other quick observation.\r\n\r\n\"so generating the PDFs
    like you suggest is the key to make a given person buy the fonts instead of extracting
    them from PDFs\"\r\n\r\nNo, not the key. That given person may not buy the fonts.
    However, the hundreds or thousands of people to whom that person would've offered
    the free extracted version might include a few potential buyers. Foundries will
    produce pdf samples forever, which I think is fantastic. Manfred Klein produces
    pdfs and his recent fonts are all free. I just can't comprehend the possibility
    of someone hitting six buttons and producing an extractable pdf when they could
    hit six buttons and increase the pdf's security tenfold while retaining visual
    quality, that's all."
  created: '2008-03-18 01:45:54'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>extractable PDFs from Newspapers and Magazines</cite>\r\nAren't those
    .pdfs encrypted? I've downloaded my fair share from the Newseum, but that's as
    far as that went.\r\n\r\nAnd what Miguel is talking about opening the file in
    Illustrator is that you have access to the outlines themselves, the actual postscript
    curves. Of course, you don't have any of the \"font\" info, but if it's the curves
    themselves you're interested in...\r\n\r\nWhen it comes to extracting/illegally
    downloading, one thing is certain: Some dork designer who actually shells out
    for someone's type design WILL eventually drop it onto the Torrent networks. It's
    not an IF, it's a WHEN.\r\n\r\nSo honestly, it's a moot point AFAIK."
  created: '2008-03-18 04:18:28'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "\"access to the outlines themselves, the actual postscript curves.\"\r\n\r\nHow
    would that then be converted into a usable font? My only guess was that a person
    could save the Illustrator file as a postscript file and try extracting from there.
    Unfortunately I don't believe I have Illustrator so I can't A.) make sure the
    process was followed on the Photoshop end and B.) what takes place when opened
    in Illustrator.\r\n\r\n\"When it comes to extracting/illegally downloading, one
    thing is certain: Some dork designer who actually shells out for someone\u2019s
    type design WILL eventually drop it onto the Torrent networks. It\u2019s not an
    IF, it\u2019s a WHEN.\"\r\n\r\nA possibility, without question. At this point,
    however, both the security measures and their potential insufficiencies seem to
    exist only in this thread and only to a degree that everyone should trust everyone
    else's skill and werewithall when using various programs."
  created: '2008-03-18 04:49:51'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "You are making a fine, valid technical point, Curioustype. It's just that
    most folks agree that it's not really an effort that produces any meaningful results
    in terms of the availability of fonts in the wild. \r\n\r\nDoes it hurt to do
    what you suggest? Certainly not. Does it help? Probably not."
  created: '2008-03-18 13:44:09'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "There is at least one EULA which I can think of which disallows including
    all of their font outlines into a single PDF. \r\n\r\nI think while this idea
    is interesting it is, alas, only one more solution. \r\n\r\nThe people on warez
    sites can be quoted as discussing re-kerning fonts and looking for a specific
    glyph. They do re-build fonts from outlines just as they re-build from extracting
    fonts from crippled (sub-set) PDFs. (They share FontLab as much as fonts.) Further
    if they want the font badly enough, they pool together and buy a copy and then
    share that among themselves. If they have a fixation  nothing gets in their way.
    \r\n\r\nIt is a valid way to do it, but it is, IMHO, more dangerous because more
    people would have access to the outlines. Afterall, some design doesn't require
    paragraphs, just characters. Logos for one example.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-18 16:57:19'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "As I recall the LetTerror folks led a grass-roots effort amongst type designers
    to have subsetting the default in PDF-creation and Adobe eventually made this
    change to Acrobat. So I think it is (or at least was) possible to facilitate change
    in this area - you just need to go about it the right way, build support and the
    business case and maybe the suits will listen. The wrong approach might cause
    the decision makers to dig in their heels. It\u2019s human nature."
  created: '2008-03-18 18:11:28'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Personally, I'm with James on this one: \"Given that just about every font
    ever produced can be found online somewhere with a lot less effort than it takes
    to dig it out of a PDF, this is all sort of a moot point.\"\r\n\r\nI'll also support
    pretty much everything Miguel has already said.\r\n\r\nThat aside, all the legerdemain
    being suggested here is not very interesting, except for limiting the charset
    showing and subsetting to use only the glyphs shown. Anything else will degrade
    the visual quality.\r\n\r\nIf the font is still a font, it is still technically
    possible to extract it from the PDF.\r\n\r\nIf the font is not a font but just
    outlines, it has suffered a significant loss of visual quality, especially (but
    not only) on screen. This might not be very noticeable for display fonts at really
    large sizes. It would be a display problem for text faces. But the outlines would
    *still* be theoretically extractable from the PDF by this hypothetical determined
    thief.\r\n\r\nAlthough the PDF can be protected via encryption, if you're talking
    about evildoers who are willing to ignore licenses and break the law to extract
    fonts, they can easily break encryption too, unless the encryption blocks actually
    opening the PDF at all. (Note: there are more sophisticated PDF encryption schemes
    from Adobe than the basic one supported by Acrobat for PDF creation, but they
    are not the sort of thing I can imagine most type foudries getting into.)\r\n\r\nIf
    the fonts have been turned into bitmaps, the loss of quality is much more severe.
    They may look fine if displayed at the exact zoom level the bitmaps were created
    at, but if somebody either zooms out until the text is small, or zooms in to see
    fine detail, serious visual problems will emerge.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\nThomas
    Phinney\r\nProduct Manager\r\nFonts & Global Typography\r\nAdobe Systems"
  created: '2008-03-19 06:46:25'
- author:
    name: Freeza
    picture: 114205
  body: "I think that the big question is... do we want that?\r\n\r\nNo matter what
    you do, ther's alway someone that will break it in a few time. I still rely on
    the peoples common sense.\r\n\r\n-\r\n\r\nwww.nunocoelho.com"
  created: '2008-03-20 13:07:23'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Maybe all what you said about Christopher \"ingenuous\" trials was right.
    Maybe it's really annoying to hear \"newcomers\" on technical issues which discover
    a thing everyone already discussed about. And of course, maybe you have been all
    right in every single point of your observations.\r\nBut it's not the content,
    it's the form\u2026"
  created: '2008-11-16 21:36:01'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "I have a motto when it comes to protecting digital property and it goes something
    like:\r\n\r\n<em>If you don't want it stolen, don't put it online</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    was formed by hearing requests from local 'webmasters' who wanted to know if a
    'computer guru' like me had heard of a way to hide their website code in netscape.
    \ Other people could go to their site and steal pictures and and steal code.  They
    wondered if there was a way they could not send the code and still have the page
    load.\r\n\r\n*sigh*  I had to tell them: the browser doesn't load the site, it
    loads the code, that's what you put online, and that's what gets trasnferred.
    \ Before the web user can display the page, each image is already copied onto
    their computer.\r\n\r\nI see this as a similar sort of thing.  You are trying
    to sell fonts, the only way people will like it is if they can see it, in vector,
    big.\r\n\r\nSo you must, if you plan on selling the fonts, give them a sample
    of something that they want.\r\n\r\nDont' forget that once they have bought the
    font you have no control to stop them from emdedding it loosely into a PDF legally
    and putting that online, you may as well provide the buyer what they want so they
    aren't driven to find examples of it <em>in use</em> before they can decide if
    they want it or not, because you have no assurance that use of it in the field
    will be as cautious and expert as your one chance to show it in all its glory.\r\n\r\nI
    would say yes, if you don't want people to take your fonts, your glyphs, your
    curves or your style, don't put it on the internet.  Harsh but true.  There is
    a good industry built around digital typography, so we know that even though people
    put PDF's online people still do buy, and we also know that fonts can cost a fair
    amount - nobody will buy them so blindly.\r\n\r\nOne way you could show off the
    curves of the letters might be to use them in an artistic composition featuring
    your typefaces, but then only bits and parts of them, so even if they did rip
    off the curve it would be useless, but you would provide enough of each glyph
    for them to see the characteristics they'd need to know whether they were going
    to purchase it or not."
  created: '2008-11-18 15:42:18'
date: '2008-03-16 23:37:43'
node_type: forum
title: Defeat font extraction forever by ...

---
