---
author:
  name: Curioustype
  picture: 112066
body: "The proprietor of the site parachute.gr has in a different forum complained
  about TTF versions of his fonts being hacked and said to one member that he'd appreciate
  it if that member would buy his fonts instead of obtaining them in some unethical
  way.\r\n\r\nHowever, perhaps someone can visit this page: \r\n\r\nhttp://www.parachute.gr/fonts.aspx?Sample=1&FontStyleID=&FontFamilyID=53&CharacterSetID=73\r\n\r\nand
  tell me how the font \"Muse\" could not be so blatantly ripped off from Jos Buivenga's
  \"Delicious.\" Which can clearly be seen in the lower case f, g, c, and s, and certainly
  seen in the remainder of the lower case letters. For that matter, with the exception
  of a few minor tweaks and added \"serifs,\" the outlines are virtually identical.\r\n\r\nShameful."
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>virtually identical.</em>\r\n\r\nAre you alleging \"point piracy\", (i.e.
    file copying and modification), or just similarities of glyph shape?\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-17 04:43:05'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: That I believe I'll leave to the person comparing. Let's just say there are
    what one would call "similar" glyph shapes, and then there are identical glyph
    shapes with one being scaled horizontally perhaps 101 percent, or merely had a
    small serif slapped on it. As mentioned, download the pdf for Muse, find and download
    Delicious, and just do a cursory comparison. If it's within your moral structure,
    strip the Muse pdf, and open both fonts in any font creation program. It would
    be downright comical if it wasn't so nauseating. Somehow this doesn't strike me
    as being similar to copying helvetica and re-naming it helstetica.
  created: '2008-03-17 04:49:55'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: http://www.typophile.com/node/39777
  created: '2008-03-17 07:47:56'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: Certainly, there are many similarities.
  created: '2008-03-17 07:56:10'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: "if you're going to make a serious accusation on a well-trafficked typography
    forum, you really should be a little bit more thorough, imo.\r\n\r\nso maybe you
    could do a side-by-side, or onion-skinned comparison?\r\n\r\ncan you post the
    creation dates of the two fonts?\r\n\r\ndid you make any attempt to contact Parachute,
    or either designer and see what they had to say?\r\n\r\nagreed, there are similarities,
    but if you are alleging point piracy, then show us what you have seen\r\nand we
    can indeed make up our own minds.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.josbuivenga.demon.nl/delicious.html\">Delicious</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.parachute.gr/fonts.aspx?Sample=1&ShowFontFamilySample=1&FontFamilyID=53&FontStyleID=&CharacterSetID=73\">Muse</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-17 08:56:32'
- author:
    name: solfeggio
    picture: 112465
  body: "Curioustype: <em>If it's within your moral structure, strip the Muse pdf,
    and open both fonts in any font creation program.</em> \r\n\r\nWith moral structure
    intact and utterly unruffled by the journey near the Dark Side, here's a side-by-side
    comparison of the lowercase \"g\" from \"Muse\" and \"Delicious\" (no resizing
    involved, BTW). \r\n\r\nThe several instances of similarity are, to my eyes, disturbingly
    close.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Image1_3752.gif]\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nErnie"
  created: '2008-03-17 09:17:31'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Figures:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/figurs_3516.png]"
  created: '2008-03-17 09:37:20'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "Sorry, but I just can\u2019t let this one go unnoted, look at that \"v\"
    also.\r\n\r\nIn my opinion, they are way too close... something is not quite right
    here.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/comparie_6213.png]"
  created: '2008-03-17 11:51:06'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: 'A follow up: Who did it first?'
  created: '2008-03-17 12:01:20'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: Mmm... This is the first time for me to see such a ripp-off thing. This is
    shameless contour hijacking. I started Delicious in 1994 and finished it in 1996.
    For what it's worth ... I can vouch for it that Delicious is completely my own
    thing.
  created: '2008-03-17 14:47:28'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: <a href="http://www.typophile.com/node/39777">This is not the first time such
    allegations have been leveled at Parachute.</a>
  created: '2008-03-17 15:53:30'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: To add some [[http://www.typophile.com/node/4055|further proof]], dating from
    the 31st March of 2004.
  created: '2008-03-17 16:14:41'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "These kind of things really makes me sick.\r\n\r\nPlease let us know how
    you will proceed with this, Jos."
  created: '2008-03-17 16:38:21'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Jos, your current license seems to prohibit this type of thing, but has your
    license always been this restrictive? Looks like it may have been posted without
    restrictions in the past?\r\n\r\nhttp://web.archive.org/web/*hh_/www.josbuivenga.demon.nl/delicious.html
    \r\n\r\nIn addition, there's no license text in the current download, not making
    any excuses but its easy for free fonts to end up in unintended places, and with
    no EULA it's a sitting duck. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-17 17:17:28'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: I guess I have to take my loss on this one, Goran, and regard it as a wise
    lesson. As sii pointed out there's no license in the current download and it wasn't
    on the earliest Delicious page I clicked at the way back machine.
  created: '2008-03-17 17:34:35'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I wonder if an organization like the FDRC or ATypI couldn't reach out to
    starting-out freeware font designers more, by providing educational materials
    around font IP issues. \r\n\r\nOf course some designers will be happy to put their
    stuff straight into the public domain with no strings attached, but having standard
    EULAs (from open source, like to OFL, through to more traditional EULAs) might
    help prevent heartbreak further down the line. \r\n\r\nSomething for us to talk
    about at next month's <A HREF=\"http://www.microsoft.com/typography/links/news.aspx?NID=6121\">The
    Business of Type</A> event (plug :-)).     \r\n"
  created: '2008-03-17 17:51:45'
- author:
    name: solfeggio
    picture: 112465
  body: "Jos: <em>there's no license in the current download and it wasn't on the
    earliest Delicious page I clicked at the way back machine</em>\r\n\r\nNevertheless,
    there is a clear notation that shouldn't be ignored or taken lightly: \"copyright\"
    &mdash; which, unfortunately, appears to have been in this instance shamelessly
    disregarded."
  created: '2008-03-17 18:02:08'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: 'As far as my knoweledge goes: the EULA can protect a font as a piece of software
    and copyright is just a way of mentioning that the (type) design is yours. Because
    copyrighting a font or type design is not treated the same in every country, what
    should (or could)  I do?'
  created: '2008-03-17 18:11:54'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "It's one thing that they \"borrowed\" the design and \"modified\" it, but
    it's another to try and profit from it. Honestly, artist to artist, a collaborative
    effort should have been forged, and Jos should see part of whatever profit they
    make.\r\n\r\nIf Jos goes on a reclamation crusade, he could hurt the Parachute
    guys were it counts... in the pockets. Following them around the net and offering
    the original, all for a price that's hard to argue with. Could make some serious
    waves, and hurt some one's credibility. \r\n\r\nBut it's possible the Parachute
    boys just had a moment of ethical and moral lapse, and bringing it to their attention
    might be enough to set things right. Jos, you're a giving, talented artist and
    imitation is the best form of flattery, but you shouldn't be taken advantage of. "
  created: '2008-03-17 18:12:32'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: amen to that last one
  created: '2008-03-17 18:21:40'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">It\u2019s one thing that they \u201Cborrowed\u201D the design and \u201Cmodified\u201D
    it, but it\u2019s another to try and profit from it. \r\n\r\nIsn't that essentially
    how open source works? Many people out there believe that's how everything should
    work.\r\n\r\n>Nevertheless, there is a clear notation that shouldn\u2019t be ignored
    or taken lightly: \u201Ccopyright\u201D \r\n\r\nTrue, the one font I looked at
    seemed to have a valid copyright string. \r\n\r\nIn the end I don't think it would
    hurt to contact the vendor.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-17 18:26:00'
- author:
    name: acrobat
  body: A similarly close parallel investigation of other fonts offered by Parachute
    (a strikingly extensive catalogue) will probably answer many questions. There's
    no point contacting them, as they've been held accountable before and their position
    is known.
  created: '2008-03-17 18:58:14'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: What is their position?
  created: '2008-03-17 19:01:17'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Is their position known? I'm afraid that I do not know it. I'd like to hear
    what they have to say.
  created: '2008-03-17 19:02:00'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "I am not certain I understand how open source generates profit for anyone,
    but I claim ignorance because there could be an \"Open Source\" department store
    around the corner from me and I probably wouldn't know it.\r\n\r\nAs for the references
    to the other string regarding Parachute, I find this one much more provocative
    and specific. Furthermore, I believe there are a few posts from Parachute people
    in that string, which certainly now make for interesting reading. In fact I believe
    one comment was something to the effect of \"Stealing? Us? Are you kidding?\"\r\n\r\nAnd
    for those who've followed this thread and still have yet to view both fonts up
    close, let me just reiterate here that this is not someone reflecting an obvious
    influence in three or four characters ... we're talking about virtually every
    character being identical, point for point. There aren't enough zeros in the Milky
    Way to quantify the odds of something like that taking place by accident. "
  created: '2008-03-17 19:03:50'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "<cite>Following them around the net and offering the original, all for a
    price that\u2019s hard to argue with. Could make some serious waves, and hurt
    some one\u2019s credibility.</cite>\r\n\r\nHurting the credibility of Parachute
    has already been done and I'm satisfied with that. It would have been just if
    they had asked me to use Delicous as a base for their muse face. \r\n\r\nHowever
    it costs a lot of $$$ and Delicious is still free and [[http://exljbris.wordpress.com/2007/03/09/deliciousx/|DeliciousX]]
    will beat every competition (I hope :-) for a smaller price.\r\n\r\nMaybe I'll
    send them an e-mail, but actually I really want nothing to do with them. For the
    moment ... I just want to do my own type thing in the believe that I've got everything
    covered right now. I will however update my free downloads with a license. \r\n\r\n<cite>And
    for those who\u2019ve followed this thread and still have yet to view both fonts
    up close, let me just reiterate here that this is not someone reflecting an obvious
    influence in three or four characters ... we\u2019re talking about virtually every
    character being identical, point for point. There aren\u2019t enough zeros in
    the Milky Way to quantify the odds of something like that taking place by accident.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    second that, and I don't have to look at all the points' positions."
  created: '2008-03-17 19:21:39'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>However it costs a lot of $$$ and Delicious is still free and DeliciousX
    will beat every competition (I hope :-) for a smaller price.</cite>\r\n\r\nLike
    I said, you can't argue with that. I'll be looking forward to DeliciousX!\r\n\r\n<cite>Isn\u2019t
    that essentially how open source works? Many people out there believe that\u2019s
    how everything should work.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, usually the original creator gives
    their approval before someone starts whacking away."
  created: '2008-03-17 19:32:41'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Isn\u2019t that essentially how open source works\"\r\n\r\nNot directly.
    Open Source Software typically requires that if one uses the open source software
    for their own software, then their software must also be open source.\r\n\r\nThere
    are many licenses out there, of course, but most of them follow that concept.\r\n\r\nNow,
    one can certainly still profit from the services that accompany the software (development,
    support, customizing, etc.)"
  created: '2008-03-17 19:49:59'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: "> There\u2019s no point contacting them, as they\u2019ve been held accountable
    before and their position is known.\r\n\r\nthat's ridiculous.\r\n\r\nThe possibility
    exists that Parachute was duped by the 'creator' of the font, Vangelis Karageorgos.
    Logic suggests that the Parachute boys would not knowingly put up a font based
    on someone else's outlines, and logic also suggests that they'll take this font
    down as soon as they see evidence.\r\n\r\nthey might be guilty of not being aware
    of Delicious, but give them (the Parachute guys) a chance to defend themselves
    before calling them thieves, and setting out to hurt their business.\r\n\r\nKarageorgos
    knows what he did, but I'd bet that the Parachute guys did not know that PF Muse
    was tainted.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-17 20:13:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Is their position known?</em>\r\n\r\nTheir position (explained on a previious
    Typophile thread) is that this is a dodgy business and everybody plagiarizes.\r\nSo
    don't pick on the little guy if you're going to turn a blind eye and keep silent
    on, for instance, the Frutiger knock-offs, as long as they're done by a \"reputable\"
    company.\r\nI would have to agree with them. Isn't this an industry that eulogizes
    the \"designers\" of \"revivals\"? Didn't we just celebrate 50 years of Max Miedinger's
    wonderfully derivative design?\r\n\r\nHaving said that, there are a lot of grey
    areas, and we have to draw the line in the sand somewhere, and \"plagiarism is
    acceptable but point piracy and trademark (name) infringement is not\" is what
    *we* as an industry have settled on, so all foundries should respect this, even
    though it's not perfect."
  created: '2008-03-17 20:19:46'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">what *we* as an industry have settled on, so all foundries should respect
    this,\r\n\r\nAgreed, but in a way it matters less what the industry decides on
    (or for that matter what's legal) it matters more what the customers (typically
    graphic designers) consider kosher vs a \"knock-off\".\r\n\r\n>and trademark (name)
    infringement is not\r\n\r\nhttp://www.t26.com/fonts/Delicious"
  created: '2008-03-17 20:37:10'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "Fair enough Brian. OK. Let's find out what they have to say. I've send an
    e-mail regarding this thing and I will let you know the outcome.\r\n\r\n@ Nick:
    Why shouldn't we try to stop the little guys before they become too big for us
    to make a difference?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-17 20:38:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'That''s unfair, and an abuse of power to protect the status quo. The end
    shouldn''t justify the means. '
  created: '2008-03-17 20:42:22'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "Mr. Shinn I've agreed with you on more things than you'll ever know because
    I read quite a bit of what you write here and elsewhere. Unfortunately, this isn't
    one of those times.\r\n\r\nI believe the one major difference between what you've
    opined and the real tragedy here is in fact a two-parter: a.) Delicious was and
    is a free font and among the best at that; and b.) I sadly must admit I've got
    underwear older than Delicious. Delicious hasn't even reached its peak notoriety
    yet, much less be anywhere near eligible to be \"revived.\"\r\n\r\nAdditionally,
    the Parachute people are charging big bones, so to speak, for their version of
    someone else's font; not their version, interpretation, tribute, of the font,
    but a virtual exact copy. Certainly there are arguments for everything you wrote;
    however, perhaps another a$$-chapper here is that most legitimate \"revivals\"
    are interpretations, created in part as a quasi-honor, and most certainly not
    a point-for-point ripoff by someone who didn't really try all that hard to disguise
    his actions.\r\n\r\nWithout question, typography is a lot like music or the motion-picture
    industry. In this case, however, someone has taken the exact bars and notes from
    a Zeppelin song, changed \"day\" to \"afternoon\" in the lyrics here and there,
    named the song \"Foggy Hill Trot\" and are selling it for big bucks ... all while
    brazenly sitting among true professional musicians and saying \"really, we wrote
    that. It's nothing like ... what's that song you mentioned? Misty Mountain Hop?
    I've never even heard of that.\"\r\n\r\nAnd finally, at least from a personal
    perspective, the Parachute people are especially shameless when considering at
    least one of them seemed to be offended by the suspicion of any \"borrowing\"
    going on, and another trumpeted the foundry's value while cramming in between
    it all what amounted to, \"everyone else is doing it, so why can't we?\" Let's
    pray none of us in-denial plagiarists decide to jump off a bridge.\r\n\r\nThe
    bright side here is the Parachute version of this font seems aptly named with
    \"Muse.\" I'd say Delicious provided the perfect \"Muse.\"\r\n\r\nIn support of
    your point, however, certainly Southern Software and its ilk do this kind of thing
    on a massive scale. However, even in that case, SSI offered cheaper versions of
    more expensive fonts; here, someone's taken a very good free font, copied it,
    renamed it, and now is selling the Muse family for more than a downpayment on
    a JetSki. \r\n\r\nFrutiger vs. Myriad is a fight, even if a one-sided fight. This
    was unmitigated larceny by people who - despite having their faces on hi-def video
    surveillance and carrying a sign saying \"PARACHUTE\" - still come here and have
    the nerve to claim, \"that's not us.\" I'd swear one of them has to be Martin
    Short."
  created: '2008-03-17 20:56:19'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: Nick, I'm not rioting typophile ... I'm just talking about the grey areas
    mentioned by you. This case is not really about revivaling a celebrated typeface.
  created: '2008-03-17 20:59:33'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: Pay no attention to the man behind the curtain correcting a double post.
  created: '2008-03-17 21:08:28'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "\"Karageorgos knows what he did, but I\u2019d bet that the Parachute guys
    did not know that PF Muse was tainted.\"\r\n\r\nJust a question - how could two
    self-proclaimed legitimate typographers go through the entire process of releasing
    the font, etc., and selling it for goodness knows how long without knowing about
    \"Delicious\" while at the same time a meaningless piss-ant like me recognized
    it the very first time I saw the font \"Muse?\" Delicious hasn't exactly been
    second behind where Jimmy Hoffa is buried as the planet's biggest mystery. \r\n\r\nAnd
    in furtherance of that, I can't remember Jos ever really plugging or pushing Delicious
    (if anything, he was justifiably protective of it), yet it still when you search
    Google for the string Delicious \"Jos\" free font, you get 67,000 results ...
    and that with the term \"Jos\" in quotes.\r\n\r\nShould someone lean more toward
    the basics of morality, however, one thought continues to come to mind: ignorance
    is no excuse."
  created: '2008-03-17 21:11:21'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite> >It\u2019s one thing that they \u201Cborrowed\u201D the design and
    \u201Cmodified\u201D it, but it\u2019s another to try and profit from it.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>Isn\u2019t
    that essentially how open source works? Many people out there believe that\u2019s
    how everything should work.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat stinks, implying that those of
    us who find good cause for some open source fonts also think copying someone else
    work without credit, and reselling it, is OK.\r\n\r\nBelow a portion of SIL's
    Open Font License, also followed, I believe by the Greek Font Society.\r\n\r\n<cite>The
    OFL allows the licensed fonts to be used, studied, modified and redistributed
    freely as long as they are not sold by themselves. The fonts, including any derivative
    works, can be bundled, embedded, redistributed and/or sold with any software provided
    that any reserved names are not used by derivative works. The fonts and derivatives,
    however, cannot be released under any other type of license. The requirement for
    fonts to remain under this license does not apply to any document created using
    the fonts or their derivatives</cite>\r\n\r\nPretty clear about prohibiting reselling
    or relicensing the font, modified or not.\r\n\r\nIf font developers in the commercial
    sector wish to so restrict their fonts that they are of little to no use for some
    applications that is their business; the marketplace will sort it out. But to
    insinuate that those of us who support OFL also support what amounts to piracy,
    strictly legal or not, does a disservice.\r\n\r\nWithout fonts like Charis, Gentium,
    and the offerings from GFS, a number of authors would not be able to prepare manuscripts
    so that typesetters could use the author's files economically; without permitting
    limited font modifications as allowed by Adobe's EULA, some scholarly books could
    not be published.\r\n\r\nBelieving in that is a far cry from supporting the shenanigans
    apparently going on as reported here. "
  created: '2008-03-17 21:13:40'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">how could two self-proclaimed legitimate typographers \r\n\r\n\"Never attribute
    to maliciousness that which can adequately be explained by stupidity!\" Mark Twain\r\n\r\nOh
    and Typophile edit rides again! Yehaw!"
  created: '2008-03-17 21:14:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>most legitimate \u201Crevivals\u201D are interpretations, created in
    part as a quasi-honor, and most certainly not a point-for-point ripoff by someone
    who didn\u2019t really try all that hard to disguise his actions.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat's
    the difference--fessing up? That is indeed the distinction that separates plagiarism
    from homage.\r\n\r\nIMO, the \"expiry date\" is the key ethical concept with regards
    to copyright and plagiarism.\r\nContent creators deserve a limited-time monopoly
    to benefit from their work (during their lives), but after that it enters the
    public domain. "
  created: '2008-03-17 21:14:49'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: CrossPost ... WoW ... I'm flabbergasted with Christopher's replies. Guess
    I couldn't have said it better (only shorter :-)
  created: '2008-03-17 21:16:12'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Believing in that is a far cry from supporting the shenanigans apparently
    going on as reported here.\r\n\r\nDo a search on the type designers name + \"font\"
    and see what links comes up. ;-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-17 21:17:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>This case is not really about revivaling a celebrated typeface.</em>\r\n\r\nRight
    Jos, I was just talking about the general skew in type culture. Of course, everybody
    mines history these days, but no-one does it better than type people!\r\n\r\nBut
    I'm repeating myself, I actually think there is a hell of a lot more original
    work being done now than five years ago -- just look at Typographica's <a href=\"http://typographica.org\"><em>Types
    of 2007.</em></a>"
  created: '2008-03-17 21:27:35'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">IMO, the \u201Cexpiry date\u201D is the key ethical concept with regards
    to copyright and plagiarism.\r\n\r\nAlso I think the expiry date varies according
    to the TM status of the name. Fonts that should perhaps have reached that date
    remain untouchable as their marks are actively policed.  \r\n"
  created: '2008-03-17 21:34:36'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "\"What\u2019s the difference\u2014fessing up? That is indeed the distinction
    that separated plagiarism from homage.\"\r\n\r\nNot only fessing up, but I'd like
    to believe in some cases that yes, homage. Perhaps my idealism is misguided ...
    I prefer to identify what you call \"fessing up\" as - at the absolute least -
    \"acknowledgement.\" And again, perhaps my ignorance is once again dancing on
    my forehead, but these \"revivals\" often are of typefaces not originally drawn
    on a computer and thus, unable to be duplicated hammer-stroke by hammer-stroke
    OR point by point. \r\n\r\nVisually they may be identical, but it still required
    some typographer to replace pounding iron with drawing his or her own points.
    Between that and yes, the confession/acknowledgement, I simply cannot see how
    the two directions could be compared. Believe me, I fully agree - originality
    is rare in typography, music, any form of art. But this wasn't a cover song, a
    conversion from metal or plate to digital, or even a parody like Mad Magazine.
    This was Brett Buster and Violet O'Mara starring in the four-hour southern epic
    Swept by the Storm and getting offended by comparisons to Gone With the Wind.
    They're playing a shell game here, except they're trying to use three balls and
    one shell.\r\n\r\nIf anything, just the flagrant nature of would seem to offend
    everyone, not just Jos, because it seems you're defending what in essence is Parachute's
    belief that we're all idiots. That's probably the difference between us - though
    not my font, I take this kinda personally; it seems you take a more pragmatic,
    liberal approach. Which is why I'll be dead at 50 and you'll probably live to
    something divisible by 50. Still, I can't shake the things said in the other thread
    by these people.\r\n\r\n\"Content creators deserve a limited-time monopoly to
    benefit from their work (during their lives)\"\r\n\r\nAgreed. I think Jos just
    posted something, however, so unless he died of carpal tunnel in the last half-hour,
    his limited time is still ticking.\r\n\r\nNow please, Mr. Shinn, would you just
    die already? Not actually die die, just for like an hour or so. OH my - never
    mind ... I lost my head there for a second pondering the idea of your work being
    part of public domain. My apologies sir."
  created: '2008-03-17 21:38:07'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "<cite>Right Jos, I was just talking about the general skew in type culture.
    Of course, everybody mines history these days, but no-one does it better than
    type people!</cite>\r\n\r\nI've never encountered it this way, but it seems like
    you want to thrive this discussion to some general thing that I \u2014in this
    current thing that's going on\u2014 find hard to comprehend."
  created: '2008-03-17 22:32:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>because it seems you\u2019re defending what in essence is Parachute\u2019s
    belief that we\u2019re all idiots. </em>\r\n\r\nChris (please call me Nick), it
    was more along the lines of \"as ye sow, so shall ye reap\".\r\nParachute may
    have crossed the dividing line into point piracy, but I suspect they don't think
    that's any worse than a legitimately-drawn Frutiger clone which didn't even bother
    tacking on a few serifs."
  created: '2008-03-17 22:35:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>it seems like you want to thrive this discussion to some general thing</em>\r\n\r\nIsn't
    that how Parachute considers it? They have said on Typophile (Ralf's link, above),
    \"We do not claim some high degree of originality here, but *only to the same
    level as other companies do*.\""
  created: '2008-03-17 22:41:20'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: just because <em>everyone else is doing it</em> doesn't make it right. i learned
    that one in sunday school...
  created: '2008-03-17 22:54:03'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "*edit* @ Nick:\r\n\r\nWhat's your point? Let's get real. It's the \"How the
    differ\" thing in the same paragraph that bothers me."
  created: '2008-03-17 22:58:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Paul, Jos, I'm just talking on a forum about why stuff happens, not passing
    judgement on anyone.\r\n\r\nIt does concern me that when \"everyone else is doing
    it\", only some offenders get called to task.\r\nThis is probably something for
    the concerned parties to sort out.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-17 23:04:31'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "just little me chiming in - \r\n\r\nfirst off, Delicious is beautiful, and
    based on your comment :\r\n\r\n\" we\u2019re talking about virtually every character
    being identical, point for point.\"\r\n\r\ni suspect you are correct about the
    foundation of their font, but as a relatively unschooled observer, i wonder how
    exactly \"originality\" works in font design, specifically in the arena of updates
    and revivals of relatively conservative styles ?\r\n\r\nto my eyes, Delicious
    belongs to a style of which there are numerous examples, some much better than
    others. Delicious does appear to be one of the earliest and best, but a quick
    perusal of Myfonts.com yielded a host of fonts that i might consider if that was
    the style i required :\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mugv_4913.png]\r\n\r\nNONE
    of them have the elegant \"v\" of Delicious, and of course many of the\"g\"s are
    open, but some of the \"m\"s appear traceably similar.\r\n\r\nthere have been
    other threads about reissues and redesigns, adaptations and updates... i don't
    mean to undermine your case, curioustype, and i would contact them, but i'm just
    curiousmyself as to how this design process works and \"where the lines are drawn\".\r\n\r\nplease
    forgive me if all i've conveyed is my ignorance.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-17 23:15:11'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: I think Delicious is certainly worth more than *free,* but I understand just
    wanting to get the work out there. Could any of this kind of stuff be avoided
    by maybe charging 50 cents (not sure what that converts to in Euros/Pounds) or
    some other small charge, and extending the rights? Would that circumvent any of
    these screw-over situations? I'm no expert on intellectual property law, so feel
    free to correct, or plain old send me to school.
  created: '2008-03-18 00:08:09'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: '"The fundamental true is, apparently, there is no way the ''infractores''
    will agree to any profit sharing."'
  created: '2008-03-18 00:12:51'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "\r\nwell, at least one good thing has come of this. i - and probably\r\na
    few others - are now aware of jos' very nice, free fonts. i will\r\ndefinitely
    download at least one if not more. they are \"heel mooi.\"\r\n\r\njos, do you
    get many donations? what's a typical donation amount\r\nthat you get?\r\n\r\njarrod"
  created: '2008-03-18 00:34:35'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "Thank you, Nick, I will avoid Mr. Shinn from now on.\r\n\r\nIn response to
    a few of the more intriguing comments:\r\n\r\n\"It does concern me that when 'everyone
    else is doing it,' only some offenders get called to task. This is probably something
    for the concerned parties to sort out.\"\r\n\r\nI'm not sure I like Nick anymore
    because it sounds disrespectful to me - especially when I feel compelled to point
    out the claim \"everyone else is doing it,\" uses the word \"it\" in a vastly
    different context than its ordinary application. I find it difficult to believe
    \"everyone,\" is engaging in this level of rip-offensy, a word making its debut
    appearance in the English language in this very sentence. Everyone else may be
    tweaking metrics, auto-setting kerning and/or making a sans serif out of Clarendon
    without disclosing the intent ... and then distributing the result for sale. This
    to me was much different.\r\n\r\nMy point: I think in this context, we're not
    talking about \"offenders\" all existing on a certain moral plane. We're talking
    about what to the best of my knowledge is a completely different level of \"offenders,\"
    and as such, almost demand to be taken to task. I see your point - why attack
    Parachute when Foundry X has been releasing virtual mock-ups of various fonts
    for years. I just don't consider this to be on par with what might call \"routine\"
    piracy.\r\n\r\n\"Parachute may have crossed the dividing line into point piracy,
    but I suspect they don\u2019t think that\u2019s any worse than a legitimately-drawn
    Frutiger clone which didn\u2019t even bother tacking on a few serifs.\"\r\n\r\nAnd
    that's frightening because it introduces an entire different dimension of thinking
    and approach to the field. I can see 65 fonts that are visually identical to Frutiger
    but of those, perhaps 20 of them spent their entire creation process as a unique
    entity ... before the designer finishes and says, crap, I've just designed Frutiger.
    Of the remaining 45, I couldn't even speculate how many of them have similarities
    right down to the exact point location - all over the font. In an odd way, I admire
    the whole Myriad \"entity\" because at least in a visual sense it comes out and
    admits it's a Pepsi to Frutiger's Coke. This font looks like it's wearing a nose-and-glasses.\r\n\r\n\"i
    wonder how exactly \u201Coriginality\u201D works in font design, specifically
    in the arena of updates and revivals of relatively conservative styles?\"\r\n\r\nThe
    accompanying visual was powerful and definitely echoes the infinite fine lines
    between fonts and styles. The difference: the examples you provide display fonts
    extremely similar in appearance. Parachute's \"Muse\" just bypassed even bothering
    to make a font that looked extremely close to Delicious, they just TOOK Delicious
    itself and curled its hair. This is not a question of how \"original\" the font
    \"Muse\" is. That would be an appropriate question/comment only if Muse was created
    in a cave and when emerging just happened to match point-for-point with another
    font. \r\n\r\n\"\u201CNever attribute to maliciousness that which can adequately
    be explained by stupidity!\u201D Mark Twain\"\r\n\r\nNever let stupidity prevent
    you from recognizing what is obviously malicious. - Curioustype."
  created: '2008-03-18 00:47:46'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "I downloaded Delicious. Actually, a question, can I use it to print in my
    letterpress??\r\nWill work great for business cards. "
  created: '2008-03-18 01:21:17'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "Nick wrote:\r\nIt does concern me that when \u201Ceveryone else is doing
    it\u201D, only some offenders get called to task.\r\nThis is probably something
    for the concerned parties to sort out.\r\n<<<<<<<<<<\r\n\r\nI understand what
    Nick's talking about, but I'd like to suggest that this should be a separate post.
    It seems the specifics of this case are intriguing, yet somewhat removed from
    the question of \"if we're mad at the little guys, are we doing enough about the
    big bad guys.\"\r\nI mean, the 2 cases are related, but it would be more beneficial
    to talk about these independently. That would certainly help the threads stay
    on track, and with luck, perhaps make some logical headway.\r\n\r\nJason C"
  created: '2008-03-18 02:21:29'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "<em>This is probably something for the concerned parties to sort out.</em>\r\n\r\nOpinions
    are like... well in any case, the concerned parties should work it out. If the
    original font was free with no EULA it makes a tough case for \"damages\". On
    the other hand, Parachute has not chimed in with their side of the story. If the
    font was a direct modification as it seems to be the case, one possible way for
    Parachute to make it right might be to offer to license the original font alongside
    the adaptation and pay a royalty to the original designer for both designs...
    or stop selling it altogether. An impartial arbitration such as what has been
    offered in the past by ATypI for its members could probably get both parties to
    sit down and decide on a course of action rather than have this thread come up
    with more theories."
  created: '2008-03-18 02:40:54'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: "> nick: Their position (explained on a previous Typophile thread) is that
    this is a dodgy business and everybody plagiarizes.\r\n\r\nwas that their position?
    We are talking about a designer's alleged *point piracy*, and they certainly have
    not laid down a position on that. But in this thread, words have been put in their
    mouths, implying that they condone this.\r\n\r\nfrom that thread\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>Influences?
    Yes a lot. But don\u2019t you see this in all new faces? As Goudy once said \u201Cthe
    old guys stole our best ideas\u201D. If originality was questioned, in this harsh
    and inappropriate way, anytime each one of us spotted some sort of \u2018inspiration\u2019
    from another source, then all existing new faces would have been knockoffs to
    different people for different reasons. I myself, and assume many of you, every
    time I look at typefaces I find similarities to other ones. This does not necessarily
    mean one is a knockoff of the other.\r\nA knockoff is a cheap almost-identical
    or simply identical version of an existing original typeface and definitely not
    something you have created from scratch and of course not something that is based
    on public domain material.\r\nParachute fonts, as member \u2018aluminum\u2019
    mentioned, are expensive. Imagine that. A knockoff that expensive!! Who are you
    kidding \u2018raa\u2019? Parachute fonts are original as much as others can be,
    very well crafted and designed to offer more than other competitive typefaces,
    simultaneously supporting Latin, Greek and Cyrillic. .... If we were to be blamed
    for designing some highly competitive typefaces like the Din Text Pro Series,
    Highway Sans Pro etc, which were created using original public domain sources
    in the most ethical way (old manuscripts, manuals for major standards, historic
    catalogs), then we are guilty as charged. Nothing to hide, just read the credits.
    I\u2019m glad that members like \u2018marcox\u2019 have already picked their favorite.\r\nBut
    if we were to be judged based on one member\u2019s misconception then that makes
    me really mad.</cite>\r\n\r\nCan you define plagiarism, as you're using it in
    this context? Is remaking DIN plagiarism? They seem to be pretty open about the
    influences of their fonts for sale.\r\n\r\nand Curioustype, expecting every foundry
    to be aware of every free font? That's just silly.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-18 02:53:48'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Damnit, I missed another awesome discussion! I'm not sure what happened,
    did we decide that the Parachute boys might not have done anything really that
    bad, or did we decide that all \"revivals\" are plagiarized copies of copies?\r\n\r\nWhatever
    the outcome, can someone please take Bank Gothic and make a revival that FIXES
    all the hideous mistakes Morris made back at the turn of the 20th century? I'm
    tired of seeing it used EVERYWHERE. Perhaps those are the fonts the Parachute
    boys should focus on, instead of fixing what is obviously NOT broken. \r\n\r\nAnyway,
    Nick, Chris, you guys need to make up. I hope you were both just caught up in
    the moment. \r\n\r\nThat is all, I'm going to sleep."
  created: '2008-03-18 03:06:39'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">did we decide\r\n\r\nyes\r\n\r\n>can someone please take Bank Gothic and
    make a revival that FIXES all the hideous mistakes Morris made back at the turn
    of the 20th century?\r\n\r\nHere you go... http://www.typeoff.de/?p=135"
  created: '2008-03-18 03:18:22'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "\"Curioustype, expecting every foundry to be aware of every free font?\"\r\n\r\nNo,
    but even a marginal level of awareness would seemingly include knowledge of many
    of the best ones. And certainly Delicious. I don't believe the Parachute people
    were unaware of \"Delicious's\" existence - I would more easily believe they hoped
    everyone else was unaware of it.\r\n\r\n\"Anyway, Nick, Chris, you guys need to
    make up.\"\r\n\r\nMake up? I haven't even gotten used to calling Nick anything
    but \"Mr. Shinn\" yet. Even in that last sentence. As seemingly made clear in
    the previous post in which I ask Nick to just die already, I have a tremendous
    amount of respect for his views and opinions, and certainly his work. I just think
    at times I write something that sounds different from what I meant. For example,
    when I wrote \"I\u2019m not sure I like Nick anymore because it sounds disrespectful
    to me - especially when I feel compelled to point out ...\" I was referring to
    addressing Nick by his first name, especially when I was about to follow it by
    saying, \"Nick, you might be off base here.\" I certainly hope he understood this
    as well.\r\n\r\n\"Perhaps those are the fonts the Parachute boys should focus
    on, instead of fixing what is obviously NOT broken.\"\r\n\r\nA simple yet incredibly
    profound observation/suggestion."
  created: '2008-03-18 03:48:47'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>I will avoid Mr. Shinn from now on</cite>\r\n\r\nI think that might
    be best. He has been known to have destroyed unsuspecting would-be font arguers
    with his devestating wit and logic...\r\n\r\nJust kidding....\r\n\r\n\r\nAnd my
    roomate chimes in in the background in a nasally nerd voice:\r\n<cite>Aaaaa. The
    font police. The font police have come. Aaaaa....</cite>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-18 04:03:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Can you define plagiarism, as you\u2019re using it in this context? Is
    remaking DIN plagiarism?</em>\r\n\r\nPlagiarism is not acknowledging your sources.
    That's the dictionary definition.\r\nRemaking DIN is only plagiarism if you say
    it's your own invention. \r\n\r\n<em>words have been put in their mouths</em>\r\n\r\nIn
    lieu of anyone from Parachute participating in this thread, I said, \"Parachute
    may have crossed the dividing line into point piracy, but I suspect they don\u2019t
    think that\u2019s any worse than a legitimately-drawn Frutiger clone which didn\u2019t
    even bother tacking on a few serifs.\"\r\n\r\nI didn't put words in their mouth,
    I used plenty of weasel-words, such as \"may have\", and  \"I suspect they don't
    think...\" They, or anybody else, is free to question my interpretation.\r\n\r\nAs
    I said, and Mr Kegler concurs, they should sort this out.\r\n\r\nChris, I love
    you, man.\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2008-03-18 04:23:22'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">all Jos to run Leopard \r\n\r\nwhich, er comes with Arial?\r\n\r\n>and enjoy
    their iPod\r\n\r\nwhich, er comes with Podium Sans? \r\n\r\n>one can\u2019t hide
    it for long.\r\n\r\nindeed! ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-18 04:31:16'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "\"I will avoid Mr. Shinn from now on.\" \r\n\r\nI actually meant I would
    avoid referring to Nick as \"Mr. Shinn.\"\r\n\r\n\"Chris, I love you, man.\"\r\n\r\nBite
    me, Nick."
  created: '2008-03-18 04:35:51'
- author:
    name: gabssnake
    picture: 111641
  body: "In my personal opinion, this is the case of an enterprise taking advantage
    of a giving artist. It is a way to make money, as history has proved already (think
    of the history of computing).\r\nEven if shameless reproduction has been part
    of the creative community since the very first moment, the bitter taste we bare
    it's not about property. Some of us honor true creation and innovation over many
    other things, promote them and defend them passionately. Some other people just
    like money and care less for this issues. Voil\xE0 Windows, Voil\xE0 Arial, Voil\xE0
    Muse!\r\n\r\nStill, all Windows shall come to their Vista, and all Jos to run
    Leopard and enjoy their iPod. The lack or presence of genius is so obvious that
    one can't hide it for long.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nBy the way, I like Delicious best;
    even if Muse has all this \"features\".\r\n\r\n__________________________________________________\r\nwww.gabssnake.4t.com"
  created: '2008-03-18 04:43:25'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: HA! Just kidding there, Nick. In all seriousness, I am wondering how you would
    react if the font in question was yours? Both from a personal and professional
    standpoint. And, more importantly, would those reactions be one and the same?
    For example, would your first reaction be a long string of expletives only spoken
    in your inner dialogue, followed by taking some sort of action (not legal, or
    anything)? I think these are questions we all should ask ourselves. I certainly
    asked myself more than once. Still trying to make it past wanting them all to
    get hit by a bus. I haven't figured out what I'd think personally yet. Probably
    something like, the bigger the bus, the better.
  created: '2008-03-18 04:43:56'
- author:
    name: gabssnake
    picture: 111641
  body: "\r\n> which, er comes with Arial?\r\n> which, er comes with Podium Sans?\r\n\r\nIt's
    all a great irony :)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nAlso I don't like the posts been taken to
    the lowest part of the list when editing some coma or parentheses.\r\n\r\n\r\n__________________________________________________\r\nwww.gabssnake.4t.com"
  created: '2008-03-18 04:48:38'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: welcome to typophile ;-)
  created: '2008-03-18 04:52:56'
- author:
    name: gabssnake
    picture: 111641
  body: "> which, er comes with Podium Sans?\r\n\r\nOh well, at least the newer models
    feature Helvetica Neue!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n__________________________________________________\r\nwww.gabssnake.4t.com"
  created: '2008-03-18 04:54:11'
- author:
    name: gabssnake
    picture: 111641
  body: "Thanks!\r\n\r\n__________________________________________________\r\nwww.gabssnake.4t.com"
  created: '2008-03-18 04:55:31'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "How threads grow when you sleep a couple of hours :-)\r\nStill haven't had
    a response on my email to Parachute.\r\n\r\n<cite>jos, do you get many donations?
    what\u2019s a typical donation amount that you get?</cite>\r\n\r\nCan't tell how
    many. Most donations are 5 or 10 Euro's.\r\n\r\n<cite>I downloaded Delicious.
    Actually, a question, can I use it to print in my letterpress??</cite>\r\n\r\nDo
    you mean to ask if you can use it commercially? If so ... that's allowed."
  created: '2008-03-18 09:03:25'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "Best wishes to you, Jos. I hope Parachute responds favorably to your email.\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2008-03-18 10:01:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> I am wondering how you would react if the font in question was yours?
    </em>\r\n\r\nBecause you're curious?"
  created: '2008-03-18 10:25:20'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "[breathing before posting] ... I sincerely would like to hear, \"Yes\" or
    \"No\"; can I use it to print some bus cards, using \"Delicious\".\r\nIf the answer
    is \"No\", I will agree. Thank You Jos."
  created: '2008-03-18 11:06:54'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: The answer is "Yes".
  created: '2008-03-18 11:18:31'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: Thank You so much :-)
  created: '2008-03-18 11:31:56'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "When I use it, I will make sure to include a comment about it\xB4s creator.
    Or the least, tell my client about Jos Bulvenga.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-18 11:37:12'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: Much appreciated! (Make sure to spell my name right :-)
  created: '2008-03-18 11:50:47'
- author:
    name: acrobat
  body: "Those of you who have been to the 1st ICTVC may remember Panos Vasileiou
    (founder of the Parachute design system) presentation. It was the story of who
    stole from whom in the typographic universe; a sort of an apology for incestuous
    similarities in typefaces. Interestingly, there's the rumour that a few major
    type houses have been trying for some years to take Parachute to the courts, but
    the Greek judicial system seems unable to fathom the intricacies of type design.
    Even more interestingly, whenever there is a discussion about Parachute fonts,
    Greek type designers do not fail to notice that even though the Latin seems to
    be well designed, the Greek leaves a lot to be desired. Couple that to the fact
    that differences between PF types and suspected originals appear mainly in widths
    and not in heights and you end up uncomfortably numb.\r\n\r\nCircumstantial evidence,
    I know. It may walk like a duck, it may look like a duck, but it's still an elephant."
  created: '2008-03-18 12:28:10'
- author:
    name: vank
  body: "People, alas, leave Parachute aside; that's absolutely my responsibility.
    Indeed the first version of Muse has been based on Meta, Syntax and on some of
    their 'descendants' or influenced fonts - if you'd rather call it so - Delicious.
    Contrary to what my impression was, the  font was just freeware and not open-source.
    Hence I should have never used Delicious and the previously mentioned fonts as
    a base in order to create a different font with additional value, more weights,
    variety and so on.\r\n\r\nI should be contacting very soon the designer of Delicious
    and resolve this matter in the best possible way. Furthermore, I have asked Parachute
    to withdraw the font until a satisfactory solution is  reached. Myself I've dealt
    before with designing greek characters for international open-source font projects
    and - after contacting the original designers and crediting them - I have also
    designed greek characters for non-open source, freeware fonts that were distributed
    over the internet (some of which were exposed here on typophile as well). Hence
    I APPRECIATE the effort of people producing software to be distributed freely
    and BY NO MEANS would i ever intentionally cause any harm on such efforts. Now,
    while this discussion serves well as a lesson for us young designers and while
    I understand Jos Buivenga's reaction, I find completely unjustified the effort
    to harm Parachute's credibility. Moreover, if I had been contacted directly, this
    matter would have been resolved in the best possible and civilized way. This has
    been indeed a valuable lesson."
  created: '2008-03-18 12:54:13'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "Jos, your fonts are beautiful. i have made a donation, i hope it helps a
    little. \r\nkeep up the great work.\r\n\r\nthis discussion, and typophile in general,
    are (is?) of great benefit \r\nto the design community.\r\n\r\ni'm unclear as
    to the exact relationship between vank, parachute, and muse but it seems some
    resolution may be possible.\r\n\r\nhopefully smiling emoticon."
  created: '2008-03-18 13:22:23'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>i\u2019m unclear as to the exact relationship between vank, parachute,
    and muse but it seems some resolution may be possible.</cite>\r\n\r\nvank seems
    to be [[Vangelis Karageorgos]], the guy who is credited for Muse on the Parachute
    website. [[Parachute]] is the foundry, selling the Muse fonts."
  created: '2008-03-18 14:04:30'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Jos - you finally finished Museo! Beautiful.
  created: '2008-03-18 14:30:29'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Vangelis, thanks for entering the fray and your explanation. Another minor
    victory and a point for Typophile, yay!  \r\n\r\n>Contrary to what my impression
    was, the font was just freeware and not open-source.\r\n\r\nAnd a point for me
    for guessing the open source explanation. ;-) "
  created: '2008-03-18 14:50:16'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "Jos, I just made my donation. Sorry that I mispelled you name.\r\n\r\n[edit]\r\n\r\nJOS
    BUIVENGA\r\n\r\nHummer these people good! :-["
  created: '2008-03-18 15:03:33'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "<cite> ... and while I understand Jos Buivenga\u2019s reaction, I find completely
    unjustified the effort to harm Parachute\u2019s credibility.</cite>\r\n\r\nTrue.
    That's why I did send an email to Parachute, so they could explain this thing.
    btw I didn't harm or hurt Parachute's credibility. I only said (and maybe I shouldn't
    have) that I was satisfied with that. I await you email vank.\r\n\r\n<cite>i have
    made a donation, i hope it helps a little. keep up the great work.</cite>\r\n\r\nThanks
    for your kind gesture Ch(ristoper)!\r\n\r\n<cite>Jos - you finally finished Museo!
    Beautiful.</cite>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tp_4671.png]"
  created: '2008-03-18 15:16:31'
- author:
    name: solfeggio
    picture: 112465
  body: "Sorry, Vangelis, but explanations proffered so far are unpalatable and tough
    as old boots. I have no stake in this squabble, save this: honesty. That being
    said, it may be time to don your fire-retardant underwear...\r\n\r\nVank: <em>\"Contrary
    to what my impression was, the font </em>[Delicious] <em>was just freeware and
    not open-source. Hence I should have never used Delicious and the previously mentioned
    fonts </em>[Meta, Syntax, and admitted but unspecified others] <em>as a base in
    order to create a different font with additional value, more weights, variety
    and so on.\"</em>\r\n\r\nNotice of copyright wasn't ample clue that you ought
    not tinker with someone's work, let alone lift it indiscriminately as the core
    for what you presented to the world as \"original\" work? Additionally, Meta and
    Syntax are neither freeware nor open-source, but such rude facts generated zero
    compunction?\r\n\r\nVank: <em>\"I should be contacting very soon the designer
    of Delicious and resolve this matter in the best possible way.\"</em>\r\n\r\nBetter
    late than never, eh? Will you similarly make amends forthwith about fiddling with
    the innards of Syntax and Meta? Confession may be good for the soul and all that,
    but restitution might speak volumes &mdash; certainly more so than feigned contrition.\r\n\r\nVank:
    <em>\"I have asked Parachute to withdraw the font until a satisfactory solution
    is reached.\"</em>\r\n\r\nPermanent withdrawal would probably be better still,
    inasmuch as this concocted product seems far too tainted.\r\n\r\nVank: <em>\"I
    APPRECIATE the effort of people producing software to be distributed freely and
    BY NO MEANS would I ever intentionally cause any harm on such efforts.\"</em>
    \r\n\r\nFunny stuff, that, if it didn't ring so false. In the case of Delicious,
    can anyone seriously believe you simply overlooked a clear copyright notice? Moreover,
    this \"software ... distributed freely\" bit doesn't touch on your admitted use
    of Meta and Syntax (and others) &mdash; i.e., \"pay-ware\" is somehow \"fair game\"
    by your lights? Is the process to toss 'em in a blender and spin well until an
    \"original\" congeals?\r\n\r\nVank: <em>\"I find completely unjustified the effort
    to harm Parachute's credibility\"</em>\r\n\r\nThat's too much like the pot calling
    the kettle black. Marketing a sham \"original\" did the company no great service.
    Judging by the comments of Angelos Bakas (a.k.a. \"acrobat\"), above, Parachute's
    supposed \"credibility\" is already dubious at best. I see no concerted anti-Parachute
    \"effort\" afoot here ... though maybe there ought to be one. D'ya think?\r\n\r\nVank:
    <em>\"... if I had been contacted directly, this matter would have been resolved
    in the best possible and civilized way.\"</em>\r\n\r\nWhoa! Wait a minute now.
    It's somehow become the responsibility of the guy you decide to rip off to contact
    you and say, \"Please cease and desist,\" instead of it being your obligation
    to not pinch his goods in the first place? That doesn't track well at all.\r\n\r\nVank:
    <em>\"... a lesson for us young designers ...\"</em>\r\n\r\nYeah, right. That's
    akin to saying, \"C'mon, folks. Let's just chalk it up to a youthful indiscretion,
    shall we?\" No excuse, sir. Not on a bet.\r\n\r\nVank: <em>\"This has been indeed
    a valuable lesson.\"</em>\r\n\r\nYes, indeed. Phrased bluntly: \"Thou shalt not
    steal.\"\r\n\r\nI, for one, certainly hope you move with all due speed to rectify
    this matter. Jos seems a first-rate individual, so perhaps he can forgive. It's
    been quite tawdry, all in all, and I fear the mar will remain. More's the pity.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-18 15:50:07'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "\" I am wondering how you would react if the font in question was yours?
    Because you\u2019re curious?\"\r\n\r\nNope. Just the curious type. \r\n\r\nActually
    Nick Mr., I was humbled by your outward response in this thread (to a certain
    degree, anyway, though I felt it was a bit lenient) and wondered if the right-brainer
    in you would have a more emotional opinion. In strictly analogical terms, to me
    this is almost like how one would feel watching someone else's wife getting slapped
    vs. watching your own. The former vision could be rationalized by saying \"a lot
    of people beat on women - yes it's tragic. But you can't just single out one loser
    when handing around criticism.\" In a typographic sense I am wondering if you'd
    apply the same theory. Or would you, like me, look for the guy and limit the remainder
    of his life's menu to jello through a tube?\r\n\r\nAlong these same lines, I have
    been just as humbled by Jos' response to all this. Although I also was warmed
    by the fact that yesterday he was on the verge of calling the Parachute guys silly
    nincompoops.\r\n\r\nAs for \"Vank,\" first let me say I admire very much the guts
    it took to step up like he did - even if he what he said left much to be desired.
    It must have been extremely difficult to read the content of this thread. Still,
    after a night of sleep and newfound commitment to the idea of live and let live,
    I can't help but question the intent. This wasn't a journeyman designer driven
    by influence who submitted a font that was lackadaisacalamandabody released for
    sale at almost $400 for the family. Obviously Vank knew of Delicious's existence,
    and there are - or should be - more than just a few tees to cross and eyes to
    dot before a studio puts a font on the shelf for purchase. Clearly, decisions
    had to be made, perhaps a few last-minute alterations, etc. I cannot help but
    believe that SOMEWHERE along the way during this process, more people than just
    Vank had to have some clue what's going on.\r\n\r\nI compare it to baseball, football,
    or perhaps even that strange game where the men run all around the field trying
    to kick(!?) the ball into a net bigger than my apartment. The best leaders of
    organizations in these arenas not only know their players, they know everyone
    else's, and who is on their way to the big time. Granted, they may not know EVERY
    standout in their, or should I say on their field, but in comparative terms, they
    almost should at least be aware not only of \"Delicious,\" but of Jos himself.
    I think Jos is blue-chip all the way, and I'd find it difficult to believe most
    on this site haven't either become aware of him, or at least his work."
  created: '2008-03-18 16:27:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: '*typo edit* solfeggio, although you make some valid points wouldn''t it be
    better to see how this plays out rather than kick the man while he''s down?'
  created: '2008-03-18 16:29:31'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "wrong post....my b.\r\n\r\n..."
  created: '2008-03-18 16:34:41'
- author:
    name: solfeggio
    picture: 112465
  body: "<em>\"wouldn't it be better to see how this plays out?\"</em>\r\n\r\nSimon,
    upon further reflection, in view of the shenanigans under discussion, I think
    my comments are fairly restrained and warranted. So, no, I frankly don't see this
    as kicking anyone while they're down. Similarly, I don't find \"the open source
    explanation\" plausible. If you feel otherwise, well, that's your privilege. We
    may merely need to agree to disagree this time around.\r\n\r\nBest regards,\r\nErnie\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-18 16:38:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I have been trying to bite my tongue until both sides had aired ther views
    on this including Parrachute. While it is fair to say that the derivitive work
    may not have had a proper EULA or perhaps freeware vs opensource issues caused
    some confusion and muddled the legal issues, the ethical issues are another matter.
    Even if there were absolutely no way for a person to sued for the \"youthful indescretion\",
    how could they live with themselves as a human being? It should not be an issue
    of, will I get caught--it should be an issue of ethical human behavior. If you
    claim to do original work, then see that it is original. If you derive a work
    from someone else's sweat and toil, be a man and give them credit at the very
    least. Type designers are a small brother/sisterhood of people who work countless
    hours. Most give freely of their experience to others in guidence and cheer eachothers
    success and releases as if they were family. Vangelis, you are Jos brother in
    this craft, honor him and his work like a brother--don't become a thief in the
    night and betray his trust.\r\nVangelis was my fathers name and you have dishonored
    your own family. I am sure your parents raised you better than this deed betrays.\r\n\r\n
    ChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-18 16:40:33'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>...it should be an issue of ethical human behavior...</cite> \r\n\r\nSage
    advice, Chris. Courtesy and Respect."
  created: '2008-03-18 16:52:35'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">We may merely need to agree to disagree this time around.\r\n\r\nFair enough.
    Thanks, Si"
  created: '2008-03-18 16:53:26'
- author:
    name: tsevis
    picture: 113800
  body: "Hi all!\r\nMy name is Charis Tsevis and I am a designer who collaborates
    with Parachute Fonts too.\r\nI ve been informed about this thread and I am writing
    what I think and feel.\r\n\r\n1. Vagelis aka vank was obviously wrong.\r\nWhat
    I understood is that he wanted to create a sans serif font (like Meta or Syntax)
    and he is based on Delicious, which was freeware. \r\nHe thought it was open source
    because he had one of the first versions, those without a EULA.\r\nHe made his
    new font wich was a 600 characters typeface with 10 versions.\r\nOK. He was wrong.
    He had to give credits and communicate with Jos in the first place.\r\n\r\nBUT...\r\n2.
    He directly accepted his fault and he is willing to correct it.\r\nAs anyone here
    is not knowing him personally, it's better not to guess what happened and what
    he is going to do.\r\nYou better wait and see.\r\n\r\n2. Some of you, fellas,
    are going too far away.\r\nIt's really sad to read about ...beaten women, cheated
    wives, companies with questionable credibility.\r\nAnd all these without knowing
    facts, persons, companies etc.\r\nOK, this is the internet, where everyone of
    us is usually expressing him self very fast. But, wait a minute. Ask yourself
    if you really know what you re saying.\r\n\r\nAfter quite an hour of reading this
    thread (Sorry for my bad english) I am really feeling sad.\r\nVangelis is being
    treated like a thief and you ask to boycot Parachute Fonts, which is a group of
    13 designers.\r\n\r\nI only hope this wont open another battle.\r\nThanks for
    listening.\r\nBest\r\n\r\nCharis"
  created: '2008-03-18 16:57:43'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"He thought it was open source because he had one of the first versions,
    those without a EULA.\"\r\n\r\nOpen source does not mean 'do what you want and
    resell it'.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-18 17:45:06'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Open source does not mean \u2019do what you want and resell it\u2019.\r\n\r\nIt
    seems to, at least in this case...\r\n\r\nhttp://dejavu.sourceforge.net/wiki/index.php/License
    \r\n\r\n... where the base fonts even contained a (c) Bitstream notice. The red
    flag should have been that legitimate open source software would come with at
    least some form of license? I assume by definition public domain software doesn't/shouldn't
    have a license?  \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-18 18:26:24'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "<cite>I assume by definition public domain software doesn\u2019t/shouldn\u2019t
    have a license?</cite>\r\n\r\nIs that irony?\r\n\r\n+++\r\n\r\nIn addition to
    aluminium: freeware also doesn't mean that you can take the font and make it your
    own. There was a copyright notice in the font file clearly stating my name. Just
    a simple google on \"jos buivenga\" would have brought Vangelis more than enough
    results to trace me. In fact he only had to click the first search result for
    a possibility to contact me. I think that if one makes a font using another font
    as base, one should at least have the courtesy to contact the original designer.
    btw ... If he had, I would never have giving permission, but that's another story.\r\n\r\nAs
    Chris comment wisely stated: we are all brothers in this craft. My \"humble response\"
    can only be credited to all the efforts my fellow typophiles put into their elaborate,
    wise (and sometimes a little bit too fierce) comments. I'm not angry at all, regarding
    everything I can only hope for a proper solution, but neither Vangelis nor Parachute
    have contacted me at this moment."
  created: '2008-03-18 18:47:06'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "\"I have been just as humbled by Jos\u2019 response to all this. \"\r\nI
    think that's a good sentiment. It's pleasing that this situation has at least
    begun to resolve itself.\r\n\r\nI believe it was I who used the phrase \"boycott\"
    in passing. I wasn't serious, I had posted in the wrong forum (had the wrong window
    open), and played it off as a poor excuse for a witty response, as well as in
    poor taste, and have since edited that post (before Charis mentioned it). Charis,
    I apologize for any personal affront, as nobody should be held accountable for
    someone else's transgressions.\r\n\r\nAfter discussion, I withdraw my opinions,
    stated or unstated, as this seems to be a matter between two designers, neither
    of which are me. I however, offer my support of any typographer or designer who
    has not been given credit for their work.\r\n\r\n(adding insult to injury, i'm
    correcting this post as i spelled Charis as Chris... selective dyslexia i think)"
  created: '2008-03-18 18:53:56'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "Hold on just a minute there, Charis. I think you just burned my butter.\r\n\r\n\"And
    all these without knowing facts, persons, companies etc.\"\r\n\r\nLet me be extremely
    clear about this, so there are no misunderstandings. In this situation, I know
    the only two facts anyone needs to know.\r\n\r\nFirst, Muse is not \"influenced\"
    by Delicious, it IS Delicious. I don't believe I'm alone here in identifying Muse
    as a virtual point-for-point recreation. There is a tremendous difference between
    \"influenced\" and \"copied,\" be it professional, ethical or otherwise. Please
    do not continue to insult my intelligence by claiming anything else. George Thorogood
    was \"influenced\" by Jimi Hendrix - he didn't pillage through all of Hendrix's
    unreleased material and release an expensive album with songs he claimed were
    only \"influenced\" by Hendrix. I find it nothing short of disgusting you would
    even make such a suggestion.\r\n\r\nAnd second, the real shame here is I had to
    be the one to tell Jos (indirectly) about this theft, when HE should've been proudly
    telling all of US about the new release on which he collaborated with the Parachute
    studio. Charis, say what you like. I will never believe that among the designer,
    the studio and whoever else came and went in between, the designer and an insignificant
    weenie like me in Lakeland, Florida were the only ones who had any clue about
    the story behind this font.\r\n\r\nBeyond those facts, nothing else really matters.
    We're not talking about events taking place in a compact, three-day stretch, that
    involved an honest mistake and how you interpret the meaning of \"influence.\"
    There is very little black and white here. Black and white exists when a few numbers
    and key lower-case letters like a or g share some striking visual similarities.
    Not when virtually every single letter is an exact duplicate.\r\n\r\nPeople seem
    to like quotes here, so let me throw mine in the ring, which I believe has some
    applicability:\r\n\r\n\"Almost all our faults are more pardonable than the methods
    we employ to hide them\" - Francois de La Rochefoucauld"
  created: '2008-03-18 18:55:44'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"It seems to, at least in this case...\"\r\n\r\nNo, the license says that...not
    the fact that they happen to be open source. I'm not even sure they are open source.
    No where in that license does it state as such.\r\n\r\nSo, if one can't find a
    license one shouldn't a) assume it is open source by default and b) even if they
    do that, assume the specific license grants them the right to sell copies of it.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-18 18:56:06'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: I'll drink to that!
  created: '2008-03-18 19:07:10'
- author:
    name: vank
  body: "I thought it would be ethically correct to withdraw the font due to the visual
    similarities of the two fonts, and not for any other reason since point-by-point
    the fonts are simply not the same. \r\n\r\nI spoke on influences on Syntax and
    Meta, not source files; blame me, if i did not clear out enough. \r\n\r\nI like
    freeware software, i appreciate Open source software, and i respect people who
    participate in such offerings to the masses. This has been the very reason I myself
    have participated in open source font-project in the near past. Furthermore, once
    again, accept it or not, it is a fact that this freeware font was misconceived
    as an open-source font. \r\n\r\nI have already contacted Jos. I am also sorry
    i involved Parachute in this matter. I hope this ends here. \r\n"
  created: '2008-03-18 19:08:54'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Perhaps one thing to take away from this situation is to \"ask first\". Whether
    a EULA comes attached to a font or not I think assuming any sort of rights of
    protection or use, especially in cases of commerce, is never good or safe.\r\n\r\nI
    think we, Typophile, are above how low some of the blows were in this thread.
    It isn't a question of what is right or deserved. It is good to see we stand up
    for each other, that in and of itself isn't a bad thing. Vank has come forward,
    hopefully Parachute will respond to Jos (here or otherwise, it isn't up to us). "
  created: '2008-03-18 19:27:40'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "\"since point-by-point the fonts are simply not the same\"\r\n\r\nAnd my
    aunt's an uncle.\r\n\r\nNudging one or two points every other character just to
    be able to claim a difference in the font is almost more offensive than simply
    leaving the entire font intact. So in the places where the fonts ARE different
    - other than the upper-case \"R\" and other such obvious alterations - are you
    saying that Jos' Delicious was \"just off by an em unit or two\" here and there?
    You must since you've identified the font as an \"influence\" and thus, obviously
    would rather improve on - than diminish - the appeal of the font. Jos, I guess
    you need to tighten up a little there, buddy.\r\n\r\nAlso, help me understand
    something here, Vank. You wrote:\r\n\r\n\"... I myself have participated in open
    source font-project in the near past [yet] this freeware font was misconceived
    as an open-source font.\"\r\n\r\nOpen source, if I'm not mistaken, is a collaborative
    effort that, for lack of a better description, involves tons of creators and designers
    who all still pretty much know the two or three places everyone congregates online
    to exchange and interact. Also to the best of my knowledge, a large percentage
    of open source material can be freely downloaded or perused on two or three main
    sites (not counting ftp sites from which one can download the downloads). \r\n\r\nI
    am making no accusations here. However, as you yourself participated in the open
    source font project, I would think you far better than most would be among those
    less-likely to be prone to such \"misconceptions.\"\r\n\r\nVank, part of the point
    here too is cut and dry as the rest: there is little room for \"misconception\"
    under these circumstances. If indeed that was a consideration of yours, you don't
    hope, assume, or even rely on your certainty. You find out. Then you double find
    out. And you do what you have to do until the possibility of misconception no
    longer exists. These are not strict guidlines, or my rules, etc. For one thing,
    it's known in its most primitive form as \"respect.\" However, this approach exists
    in many forms on many levels beyond mere respect. \r\n\r\nVank, whether you realize
    it or not you essentially decided early on it would be better to seek forgiveness
    than permission. Yes, you are correct - they aren't EXACTLY the same fonts, and
    Delicious is a free font notwithstanding the copyright spider web. Perhaps now
    you could explain how either of those facts mitigates any of the damage resulting
    from this, if any? Are you really going to stand behind a claim such as \"I've
    tried to be apologetic and express remorse, but you know, it WAS a free font so
    tough sh**?\"\r\n\r\nI admire your guts to appear here, believe me - however,
    you still seem a bit recalcitrant. I would imagine you hope it ends here. Unfortunately
    I think your voting privileges might have been placed on hold."
  created: '2008-03-18 19:48:16'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Chris, you can call off the dogs. I believe Vagelis is making an attempt
    to rectify things between him and Jos. He didn't need to add anything to this
    discussion, but he did. As for the details outside of this discussion, we'll just
    have to wait and see what happens. He made a mistake and has admitted it, no need
    to run him up the pole any further.\r\n\r\nThis has been an eye-opening discussion,
    and hopefully it's message will carry on."
  created: '2008-03-18 20:05:23'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "\"Chris, you can call off the dogs.\"\r\n\r\nyou're right. thanks for the
    slap in the face ... i was starting to get tunnel vision,"
  created: '2008-03-18 20:32:01'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"it is a fact that this freeware font was misconceived as an open-source
    font.\"\r\n\r\nI'm not sure the connection there. What does misconceiving it as
    open source have to do with reselling a derivative of it?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-18 20:32:51'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "\"I\u2019m not sure the connection there. What does misconceiving it as open
    source have to do with reselling a derivative of it?\"\r\n\r\nNot certain, but
    I do know open source material is in effect like one big giant universal collaboration
    on various programs, fonts, etc., and exists in a world where the concept of copyrights
    causes nasty, painful skin and brain irritations to those involved. As for making
    profit from material derived from an open source project ... I can't really quantify
    the morality of that without more thorough knowledge of all the factors involved.
    I imagine if you can take a program born under the open source idea, make dramatic
    improvements to it and sell a finished project that hardly resembles the original
    software, you'd make it as far as engaging in questionable conduct. In my eyes
    only mind you. Now we really are talking about some grey area. \r\n\r\nThe kicker
    here was that not only did Muse's designer not make absolutely certain the font
    originated as open source, he didn't even bother to contact the original designer
    - whose identity must have been known to him - to find out.\r\n\r\nThat has been
    one of my points all along - this is nightmarish on all kinds of levels and not
    just a debate on an isolated oversight.\r\n\r\nWait ... doggone it. Sorry about
    that Andrew. Just when I think I'm out, they pull me back in."
  created: '2008-03-18 20:51:14'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: ">can someone please take Bank Gothic and make a revival that FIXES all the
    hideous mistakes Morris made back at the turn of the 20th century?\r\n\r\nOr here
    you go:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.dilworthtypographics.com/portfolio.php?spec=bridge%20gothic"
  created: '2008-03-18 20:52:57'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>Or here you go:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.dilworthtypographics.com/portfolio.php?spec=bridge%20gothic\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    R is still hideous, but it's a much better version than the original!"
  created: '2008-03-18 21:06:25'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I do know open source material is in effect like one big giant universal
    collaboration on various programs, fonts, etc., and exists in a world where the
    concept of copyrights causes nasty, painful skin and brain irritations to those
    involved.\"\r\n\r\nOpen Source simply means the Source Code is openly available.
    You can look at it. You can change it for your own use. Ideally, the license allows
    you to contribute back.\r\n\r\nThat's it. That's the basic definition.\r\n\r\nBeyond
    that, like ANY IP, the specific license can change/add/subtract all sorts of rights/restrictions/benefits
    and the like.\r\n\r\nI think too many folks in this thread are confusing 'open
    source' with 'public domain'.\r\n\r\n\"The kicker here was that not only did Muse\u2019s
    designer not make absolutely certain the font originated as open source\"\r\n\r\nIMHO,
    the kicker is that he assumed it was open source...when the open source definition
    make NO STATEMENT WHAT SO EVER that one can freely modify and resell it. ;o)"
  created: '2008-03-18 21:33:09'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "+++NEWS+++BREAK+++\r\n\r\nVangelis and I have settled this matter for once
    and for all in a fair way. \r\nI'm sorry I can't give you more details about it.\r\n\r\nI've
    learned a wise lesson form this and as far as I'm concerned Muse can be put back
    online ... but that's up to Vangelis now. \r\n\r\nI do want to thank Curious Christopher
    for spotting this, all typophiles for their generous support and I like to conclude
    this with the words Tiffany posted: \r\n<cite>\"I think we, Typophile, are above
    how low some of the blows were in this thread. It isn\u2019t a question of what
    is right or deserved. It is good to see we stand up for each other, that in and
    of itself isn\u2019t a bad thing.\"</cite>\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-18 21:34:56'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Amen
  created: '2008-03-18 21:52:49'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "Well congratulations to Jos, props to Vangelis and good night to John Boy.
    It is unfortunate that an issue much in need of debate/discussion had to involve
    actual people and events. As for low blows or being above some of the things appearing
    in this thread, sometimes making an omelete requires cracking a few skulls. And
    if Jos consents to the font being sold as is on the Parachute site, I wouldn't
    object one bit to seeing this entire thread removed permanently. The discipline
    was my first concern; Jos being intruded upon was my second, and the personal
    offense I took coming in third. In the end, lessons were learned, foundations
    were reassessed and Jos seems happy. My own personal offense and what the studio
    knew and when it knew it are not in need of reconciliation.\r\n\r\nWait .... cracking
    a few EGGS. My bad."
  created: '2008-03-18 21:57:41'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: Thanks Jos, for the Fonts!
  created: '2008-03-19 00:35:30'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: ">can someone please take Bank Gothic and make a revival that FIXES all the
    hideous mistakes Morris made back at the turn of the 20th century?\r\n\r\nAnother
    new one here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/alphabetsoup/bank-gothic-as/regular/"
  created: '2008-03-19 15:41:57'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "<cite>As for low blows or being above some of the things appearing in this
    thread, sometimes making an omelete requires cracking a few skulls</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    guess you're right. Thanks to all the cracking this thread probably did resolve
    this thing. I didn't meant to be moralistic citing Tiffany. I just thought these
    words were appropriate to more or less conclude this topic. \r\n\r\n<cite>Thanks
    Jos, for the Fonts!</cite>\r\n\r\nYou're very welcome!"
  created: '2008-03-19 18:00:22'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "It's not the first time there's been a plagiarism dogpile on this site. Point
    piracy is one thing. Designers know whether of not they've drawn points or copied
    them. Before you publicly accuse someone of plagiarism, contact them first becuase
    there may be a rational explanation.\r\n\r\nAbout 10 years ago, a client(pro-bono)
    sent me scans of lettering in a 1960s high-school yearbook drawn by an anonymous
    illustrator. A few years later, I received an irate email from someone who designed
    a similar font in the mid 1990s. When I saw the font in question it was obvious
    that my client had tricked me. I underestimated how low people can sink to save
    $50. I apologized to the designer, removed the font from my site and asked about
    50 of the most popular freeware sites to remove it. I am thankful that they contacted
    me first rather than raking me across the Typophile coals.\r\n\r\nIn 2001, a client
    commissioned me to create a font (based on Zero Hour) which I ended up calling
    Xirod. The client had very specific requirements and even required me to sign
    a contract to ensure that it would be released as freeware. I thought it was a
    strange request but the idea seemed original to me. After I released it, I noticed
    a similar free font called Battlefield. Luckily I didn't go with all of the clients
    recommendations so it didn't turn out exactly the same . . . but it easily could
    have.\r\n\r\nWhen fonts are commissioned by a client, they often have very specific
    requests. On two other occasions, partway through a project, I caught on to the
    ruse and convinced the client to take the project in a different direction.\r\n\r\nSometimes
    designers are inspired by the same \"classic\" fonts that I am and accuse me of
    stealing their ideas. I won't embarrass anyone by citing examples here. Many font
    designers have the same old metal type specimen books in their bookcase that I
    have.\r\n\r\nYeah, I publicly pointed out Intellecta's point theft of one of my
    discontinued freeware fonts, but what we're looking at here isn't clearly point
    theft. Before you going to publicly accuse, make absolutely sure you're right."
  created: '2008-03-19 18:55:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Before you publicly accuse someone of plagiarism, contact them first becuase
    there may be a rational explanation.\r\n\r\nThis might be a good policy to enshrine
    on the Typophile code of conduct. I constantly worry when I see threads like this
    that typophile might get shuttered due to some over-zealous designer sending their
    lawyers after Jared and Joe :-(\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-19 19:45:06'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "\"but what we\u2019re looking at here isn\u2019t clearly point theft. Before
    you going (sic) to publicly accuse, make absolutely sure you\u2019re right.\"\r\n\r\nWow,
    I'm particularly surprised by this statement, considering the author. Unlike the
    designer/studio, neither of which made sure they were right about Delicious being
    an open-source font, I am going to second Jos' sentiment here and state I don't
    need to see the points before being able to identify them as copied.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    if some feel that observation doesn't carry enough substance to vocalize an all-out
    accusation ... or if some feel - as you seem to - that Muse and Delicious do not
    share enough similarities to constitute \"piracy\" or whatever, all I can say
    is this:\r\n\r\n1.) Eventually the designer of Muse himself came on here and admitted
    being \"influenced\" by Delicious, which verifies the connection at the very least.\r\n\r\n2.)
    Jos, the designer of Delicious, saw his font in \"Muse\" almost instantly ...
    kind of like a father or mother could pick their child's voice out of a party
    crowd or verify it sight unseen.\r\n\r\n3.) I know there were a few visual examples
    posted above, which are quite compelling - but in my opinion not even the best
    representations of what's taken place here. Off the top of my head I can think
    of virtually exact duplicates also existing in the lower-case b, c, d, f, p, q,
    s, v, w, x, y and z. The numbers are nearly indistinguishable. Even the upper
    case \"P\" isn't \"land-locked\" to borrow from one of my own terms to describe
    the unclosed-look.\r\n\r\nAnd finally, I think one of Delicious's most impressive
    features is it isn't what I'd call cookie-cutter, despite being a clean, solid
    sans. There are subtle, unique features all over that font unlike any other sans
    I've seen. I'm not comparing Jos's achievement to the parting of the Red Sea by
    any means ... all I'm saying is, the uniqueness of Delicious - in addition to
    being evident upon closer look - also made these similarities that much easier
    to identify. A sans serif font almost inherently restrains a designer from the
    start, but with Delicious, Jos still managed to give the font its own distinctive
    appearance (i.e., the lower-case e, f, v, w, etc.) and made what the outlines
    dictate should look like a pure square-sans into something artistic and in primitive
    terms, curvy. \r\n\r\nEvery now and then when I quickly glance at Delicious it
    reminds me of Quadraat Headliner, but only for a moment. I don't think I spent
    a single moment looking at Muse without immediately tying it to Delicious."
  created: '2008-03-19 21:14:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I just thought these words were appropriate to more or less conclude this
    topic.\"\r\n\r\nI think Jos said it best above and implied that we should all
    now move on and let this thread end.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-19 21:21:13'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Speaking abstractly, not specifically about this thread.\r\n\r\n> Before
    you publicly accuse someone of plagiarism, contact them first becuase there may
    be a rational explanation.\r\n\r\nI'll third that. As a moderator I wonder about
    threads like this all the time. It doesn't help that I've actually received email
    from lawyers and designers before either. As I've mentioned, standing up for each
    other is great, but it easily crosses a line without anyone have those intentions
    to begin with. From now on please email the designer off-list. Let the designer
    do what they think is best. (Which would include, I hope, contacting the people
    in question, not running to start a thread.) Then perhaps once it has been settled
    you can, if you still wish, start a thread here in an effort to keep education
    running."
  created: '2008-03-19 21:22:31'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "> Wow, I\u2019m particularly surprised by this statement, considering the
    author.\r\n\r\nNice. What you're getting at?"
  created: '2008-03-19 21:46:44'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: That point I made about point theft vs. plagiarism makes no sense. Please
    disregard. And I'm not saying I haven't accused someone of the same thing. I regret
    doing it. I've been accused and an accuser and I can see that it's not a good
    way to go.
  created: '2008-03-19 21:50:39'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "\"Nice. What you\u2019re getting at?\"\r\n\r\nWell, I know you created thousands
    of free fonts for some time before throwing your hat in the pay-font ring, and
    have set a robust pace when producing those. That said, regardless of what anyone's
    opinion is on their appeal - and more on that in a second - I doubt there are
    many people who've either had their hands on or looked at up close the thousands
    upon thousands of fonts you have. That's why I was surprised to read what you
    wrote about the level of originality in Muse. I kinda got the impression you didn't
    believe they were all that similar. I get scared when I hear things like that
    coming from people like you because my immediate reflex/impulse is to immediately
    second-guess myself and pray like mad I'm not some unfortunate version of the
    emperor in his new clothes here.\r\n\r\nThat would be under ordinary circumstances.
    In this case, however, the similarities have been well-quantified, identified,
    and crucified.\r\n\r\nAs for allowing two designers to work out things like this
    in their own little corner of the courtyard - or believing it to be the most diplomatic
    dove approach, all that does is lay the benefit right back in the lap of those
    perhaps least deserving of it. Perhaps the coals could have been turned down a
    bit, agreed - still, I can't imagine feeling all that guilty about forgetting
    to bake the Parachute entity a cake. I strongly believe people are overlooking
    two crucial points here - first, this thread has not been 100-percent ground-breaking
    the entire time, so doing anything but engaging in such dialogue would amount
    to nothing more than complicity. And second, much has been said about Paragraph's
    failure to recognize the problem before releasing the font, which many here seem
    all-too-willing to forgive for the sake of peace.\r\n\r\nAs would I - if not for
    the fact that some Paragraph personnel have on this very site defended the originality
    of their work  if not take outright offense when anyone even hints at suggesting
    otherwise. And in rather eloquent text that was anything but self-effacing. I
    therefore strongly disagree - I believe the energy and consideration the subject
    matter generates has in my mind been healthy. As long as this issue awaits an
    ethical, everybody's happy conclusion, it should continue. \r\n\r\nHowever, I
    do agree it has run its course and as I've said earlier, probably a good candidate
    for total deletion. When it was unresolved and still being hotly debated, ending
    it would've been the worst thing to do since it would relieved those responsible
    of any sense of urgency to correct it. I believe it has been, and from THIS point
    forward any damage Parachute might incur would be arguably underserved. Still
    there's a little voice in me that keeps echoing a basic philosophy ... we all
    end up being held accountable for what we do and produce, which isn't abusive
    to us or even something we can piss and moan about before trying to outrun it.
    \r\n\r\nTo suggest a single person here might be in any way to blame for clouds
    that form over Parachute because of this would be a misguided attribution."
  created: '2008-03-19 23:39:13'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "Oh and about the appeal of Typodermic fonts: regardless of what anyone thinks
    of Mr. Larabie's production pace one way or the other, he's certainly accomplished
    one thing: I probably like as many fonts appearing on his site as I do any other
    single site on the web, short of our current handful of massive empires. For my
    taste, the first thought that enters my head when looking at Gnoulane is Bureau
    Grotesque 31. But there also are fonts all over his site that I appreciate for
    a number of reasons.\r\n\r\nI really do find interesting the approach to typography
    taken by both Mr. Larabie and Jos Buivenga; Jos offers wonderful fonts for free,
    but since so many people rain down on his site on a regular basis, he either does
    or logically could generate revenue that way. Mr. Larabie on the other hand has
    literally created something for just about everyone regardless of his or her taste
    and I know recently was among the top sellers of new fonts at my fonts.com. I
    see absolutely nothing wrong with either approach, or the one in which a typographer
    all but identifies him or herself by one or two iconic mega-families. I even have
    my own personal little approach to the strategy of font production, a bit different
    from those above.\r\n\r\nMy approach is to try and retain as much sanity as possible
    while the cerebral contractions of having just one type baby reduce my core to
    runny fried eggs. And when ready, try to minimize the number of times I keep trying
    to cram that baby right back in where it came from until its perfectly incubated.
    It has its own sort of efficiency in a way, and still needs a little work."
  created: '2008-03-19 23:58:21'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: Help me, Asvetic, help me! I beg you!
  created: '2008-03-19 23:59:28'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>Help me, Asvetic, help me! I beg you!</cite>\r\n\r\nChris, drop the
    mouse and step away from the computer."
  created: '2008-03-20 00:15:43'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: Whew, thanks. To refer back to an earlier mention of the movie Airplane, I
    was beginning to feel like that woman who was going nuts while this long line
    of people was waiting to smack her in the face. Or shoot her. Thanks for the anchor.
    And yes, I think this dog needs to be put down.
  created: '2008-03-20 00:53:26'
- author:
    name: michielterpelle
  body: 'Is this one added to: You thought we shouldn''t notice! ;)'
  created: '2008-05-13 08:22:58'
date: '2008-03-17 04:06:06'
node_type: forum
title: A CHEATER?

---
