---
author:
  name: Si_Daniels
  picture: 110446
body: "Let the f'ugly* fun begin.\r\n\r\nOn Safari... [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Safari_4555.JPG]\r\n\r\nsame
  page on 'old fashioned' browser... [img:sites/default/files/old-images/IE_4090.JPG]\r\n\r\nOther
  samples linked here...\r\nhttp://www.alistapart.com/articles/cssatten \r\n\r\nCheers,
  Si\r\n\r\n*font ugly ;-) "
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: <a href="http://typographica.org/001112.php">My fears</a> realized.
  created: '2008-03-18 18:53:25'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I think this will become known as \"Web 3.Oh my gawd! Who picked that font?\"
    ;-)\r\n\r\nLet's come back in a year and see if Ray Larabie, and any other designers
    who allow their freeware fonts to be used, are elevated to the pantheons of the
    font gods. \r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2008-03-18 19:03:20'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "PS no disrespect to Ray, his fonts have their place, just don't think every
    web page in the \u201Cwhole freaking world\u201D is that place. ;-)"
  created: '2008-03-18 19:06:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "it looks like they expect the reader to connect the dots on this one, Si
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-18 19:10:05'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: yikes! that cannot be zen!
  created: '2008-03-18 19:13:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Zen and the Art of Fartery :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-18 19:15:03'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Not a \"major browser\", no protection for commercial fonts, no kerning support,
    \u2026\r\nBut still: a milestone! Both for web designers and the font industry!\r\n\r\nI'll
    bet you in 10 or 15 years the major foundries will be whining about how they underestimated
    the new market of web fonts. \r\n"
  created: '2008-03-18 19:26:31'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: If I recall <cite>Zen and the Art of Archery</cite> advocated hitting the
    target without using your eyes. That must be the key to this as well.
  created: '2008-03-18 19:27:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"without using your eyes\"\r\n\r\nLOL!!! Yes, Grasshopper :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-18 19:36:19'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Interesting that this was on the news last night... \r\n\r\n\"<A HREF=\"http://www.nbcaugusta.com/news/health/16749046.html\">Computer
    Vision Syndrome Becoming More Common</A>\" \r\n\r\nThe answer is apparently \"rose
    tinted glasses\" - maybe that's what the font industry needs too ;-)"
  created: '2008-03-18 20:04:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "or a seeing-eye dog :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-18 20:12:53'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: This is going to make a lot of money for type designers who can afford a lawyer,
    or just write a good cease-and-desist-or-license-my-fonts letter. Just figure
    out how to get a search engine to pull up every site using your font and start
    going after all the pirates and all the customers of eBay bootleg font vendors.
  created: '2008-03-18 20:25:15'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'Keep in mind that while this is cool, this was in all likelihood done for
    one reason and one reason only: custom iPhone apps'
  created: '2008-03-18 20:29:16'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">This is going to make a lot of money for type designers who can afford a
    lawyer, \r\n\r\nNo, this is going to make a lot of money for lawyers who work
    for type designers.\r\n\r\n>it looks like they expect the reader to connect the
    dots on this one, Si :-)\r\n\r\nChris, that design had me in stitches, fortunately
    you can download the font no-strings-attached. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-18 20:38:35'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">custom iPhone apps\r\n\r\nI doubt it, but somone should try the examples
    on a firmware 2.0 iPhone and share the results. "
  created: '2008-03-18 20:39:36'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I doubt it\"\r\n\r\nI don't doubt folks will use it for more than that,
    but at this point, Safari's main purpose in terms of Apple development is the
    iPhone/iTouch. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-18 21:33:58'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Sadly our confidentially promise with those folks won\u2019t let me counter
    your theory, but maybe over a pint at TypeCon ;-)"
  created: '2008-03-18 21:50:36'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Keep in mind that while this is cool, this was in all likelihood done
    for one reason and one reason only: custom iPhone apps</cite>\r\n\r\nI think that
    there\u2019s more to it than that; namely, Apple got sick of waiting for the standards
    crowd to get something done and took the initiative to craft a solution that will
    annoy some people, but get the ball rolling. It\u2019s something that Apple is
    in a unique position to do; if say, Microsoft or Adobe tried this, people would
    just start screaming \u201Cmonopolists!\u201D and \u201Cembrace and extend!\u201D.
    Surely custom fonts for iPhone apps is something Apple would like to have, but
    the reality is that the W3C should have worked this stuff out a long time ago."
  created: '2008-03-18 22:22:34'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Well at least I can comment on that. CSS has theoretically supported this
    mechanism for like for ever. Hakon Lie (author of CSS) started pushing browser
    makers to support it. <A HREF="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dave_Hyatt">Dave Hyatt</A>
    who works on WebKit put it in a while back and its worked its way into Safari.
    I think the whole effort is standards-driven rather than anti-standards.
  created: '2008-03-18 23:10:43'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Thanks for straightening me out\u2026err, clearing that one up, Sii. Maybe
    I\u2019ll just submit a Mozdev bug request about Firefox not supporting this\u2026"
  created: '2008-03-19 01:01:33'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: I think you should submit a bug request to Apple about supporting it :)
  created: '2008-03-19 01:17:58'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: Can someone remind me where in the Preferences I turn this thing off ?
  created: '2008-03-19 07:27:42'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Typographica: John Gruber, via email, succinctly describes the dilemma:\r\nThe
    fonts you\u2019re allowed to embed legally aren't worth using; the fonts that
    are worth using aren't embeddable.\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nSo what can we do about it?
    Provide the fonts worth using!\r\n\r\nYes, there will be ugly MySpace sites which
    will be unreadable. Yes, there will be websites using commercial fonts without
    paying. But still: it's a big opportunity for everyone. \r\nIf anyone thinks the
    same I would be very interested in sharing ideas. How would web fonts be licensed?
    Per user? Per domain? Per domain per year? On demand (per download from the foundry's
    server)? At which prices? How can commercial fonts be protected (which means:
    how can we make it a litter harder to get them)?"
  created: '2008-03-19 11:20:56'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Let\u2019s come back in a year and see if Ray Larabie, and any other
    designers who allow their freeware fonts to be used, are elevated to the pantheons
    of the font gods.</em>\r\n\r\n<em>PS no disrespect to Ray, his fonts have their
    place, just don\u2019t think every web page in the \u201Cwhole freaking world\u201D
    is that place. ;-)</em>\r\n\r\nSii, adding a winking emoticon at the end of that
    statement does nothing to diminish the insulting, discriminatory and divisive
    nature of it, and the snotty remark you made before it regarding \"the pantheons
    of the font gods\". By mentioning Ray Larabie and only Ray Larabie you single
    him out. Liking or disliking Ray Larabie's free fonts is a matter of personal
    taste, <strong>but on an objective basis that is not the issue for this topic
    and has no place in this discussion.</strong>\r\n\r\nThe first remark was nothing
    more than a thinly-veiled put-down of Ray Larabie's merit as a type maker and
    designer. You then tried to disguise your hubris by saying \"...disrespect to
    Ray...[yada yada yada].\"\r\n\r\nYou did much the same thing to me on the recent
    CSS thread, singling me and the embedding terms in my EULA out for scrutiny. I
    abandoned that thread because it was obvious the cabal, on that occasion consisting
    of you and Adam Twardoch, had decided to sink a hatchet into my back for a minor
    indescretion on my part.\r\n\r\nKindly stick to the topic at hand when at Typophile
    and stop making personal attacks on individuals. I am drawing the community's
    attention to you because I notice you doing it over and over, yet I haven't noticed
    anyone else in particular making such obvious attacks.\r\n\r\nAlternatively, keep
    on with your hubris and personal attacks, as it only makes you look bad. Don't
    assume that if Arbo isn't posting much he isn't reading typophile.\r\n\r\nModerators---will
    one of you please have a word with Simon offline about this. Thankyou.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-03-19 11:42:54'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Sadly our confidentially promise with those folks won\u2019t let me counter
    your theory\"\r\n\r\noooh! Time to start rumours! ;o)"
  created: '2008-03-19 13:23:58'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Sii, adding a winking emoticon at the end of that statement does nothing
    to diminish the insulting, discriminatory and divisive nature of it\"\r\n\r\nSure
    it does. ;o)\r\n\r\nRay was likely mentioned as he is often mentioned as the example
    by the Hakon Lie (one of the 'inventors' of CSS/employed by Opera) \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-19 13:27:56'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Ray was likely mentioned as he is often mentioned as the example by the
    Hakon Lie \r\n\r\nCorrect. \r\n\r\n>Moderators\u2014-will one of you please have
    a word with Simon offline about this. Thankyou.\r\n\r\nIf the moderators think
    I'm out of line they can call me on it right here. If Ray or any of the people
    I've personally attacked on typophile can contact me off-list if they like. "
  created: '2008-03-19 13:48:46'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Don\u2019t assume that if Arbo isn\u2019t posting much he isn\u2019t reading
    typophile.\r\n\r\n\"Arbo\" ;-) You know, you can't pick your own \"nickname\",
    the community has to pick one for you. ;-) \r\n "
  created: '2008-03-19 13:56:39'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>You know, you can\u2019t pick your own \u201Cnickname\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nWhy,
    would that be arbotrary?"
  created: '2008-03-19 14:04:01'
- author:
    name: billy.wq
  body: "I'll preface this by saying that I would hardly consider myself a type designer
    and much less a lawyer;\r\nBut I was under the impression, at least in the U.S,
    that a typeface is not something that can be held under copyright - that is the
    letter form itself. That what is copyrightable is the \"software package\" of
    it's distribution - which could also include metrics and kerning.\r\nNow if a
    web page is just displaying the letters of a typeface on it's page - without metrics
    or a packaged means of distribution, then how can this be considered infringement?"
  created: '2008-03-19 14:32:05'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "billy...for the browser to display a typeface embedded, then it, indeed,
    has to load the 'software package' to render it.\r\n\r\nThis would be opposed
    to uploading an image made with the type...like a JPG or GIF, which would not
    include the typeface 'software'. Nor would it be type at that point."
  created: '2008-03-19 15:34:35'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Billy if you follow the link you'll see a snippet of CSS code... the font
    file, in this particular example one of Ray Larabie's excellent fonts, is linked
    and will be downloaded by the browser...\r\n \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Capture_4685.JPG]"
  created: '2008-03-19 16:21:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Ralf>If anyone thinks the same I would be very interested in sharing ideas.
    \r\n\r\nI think that should probably be a focus of discussion. \r\n\r\nRalf>How
    would web fonts be licensed? Per user? Per domain? Per domain per year? On demand
    (per download from the foundry\u2019s server)? At which prices? \r\n\r\nI really
    don't have any ideas, all current licenses that allow for traditional embedding,
    with broad redistribution, assume some level of misuse, but what do you do if
    the fonts are fully exposed? You had a technique to hide the fonts, which introduces
    a barrier to misuse. Does this work with Safari\u2019s implementation?\r\n\r\nRalf>
    How can commercial fonts be protected (which means: how can we make it a litter
    harder to get them)?\r\n\r\nAs you probably know we\u2019ve submitted the EOT
    format to the W3C. That introduces a further barrier, but is certainly not impenetrable.
    I wonder if there are tables that can be removed from the fonts to make them less
    usable if extracted? \r\n"
  created: '2008-03-19 16:44:40'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Larabie fonts are also mentioned in the original article to which Si linked.
    Si is one of the least mean people I know and I say this as an associate of his
    as well as a moderator. \r\n\r\nThe simple truth is that if the web becomes a
    sea of people using the fonts currently available for use it will be fugly. True
    there are appropriate uses for many free fonts. There are some very good quality
    free fonts as well. But, if we are speaking in general terms I fear for what the
    web will become. \r\n"
  created: '2008-03-19 17:13:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I fear for what the web will become.\"\r\n\r\nJust think of what happened
    when Apple and Microsoft unleashed software that could include clip art as well
    as the clipart and bunches of fonts with limited uses a few years back. Soon,
    we were getting god-awful emails and wordprocessing files from wannabe \"artists\"
    showing us every font and piece of clip art at ther disposal! Not a pretty sight.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-19 17:22:48'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Thanks Tiffany, \r\n\r\nThe comment I made about what this would do to the
    reputation of freeware type designers associated with this effort (either by choice
    or not) was an honest one. I can see things going in a number of directions for
    them, they could become heroes of the new font-enabled Web, or they could find
    themselves unjustly blamed for the fugly \u2013 I\u2019ll coin the phrase \u201CVinnification\u201D
    :-( - Comic Sans is still a very popular font with the masses, even though through
    no fault of his own, Vinnie gets flack for it. Equally until Firefox and IE jump
    on the bandwagon nothing may happen. Likewise if mainstream commercial font vendors
    can find a way to be involved then it won\u2019t be an issue. \r\n\r\nThe timing,
    with respect to the <A HREF=http://www.microsoft.com/typography/links/news.aspx?NID=6121>Business
    of Type event</A> couldn\u2019t be better, rather than focus purely on the issues
    of enforcement and risk we can explore ways for font makers to benefit from this
    technology. \r\n\r\nIn addition the \"PS\" comment about Ray\u2019s fonts having
    their place, was an honest effort to counter any perception that I was anti-Ray
    in my earlier post. I know various Microsoft games groups use his fonts, and I
    was lucky enough to be able to license one of his fonts (through an agent) for
    redistribution in Halo 3. \r\n"
  created: '2008-03-19 18:07:19'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "Thanks very much for defending me, James. I really appreciate it.\r\n\r\nFreeware
    fonts are more likely to be used in lowbrow design hence I'm used to being a typographical
    punching bag. The more widely fonts are distributed, the more likely it is that
    they'll be misused. Young font designers, take heed: don't release freeware fonts
    unless you don't mind a future career as whipping boy/girl. Even if you make great
    fonts, you'll be remembered for fonts misused. I guess Vincent Connare knows how
    that goes. Praise for Magpie will always be overshadowed by anti-Comic Sans sentiment.\r\n\r\nAbout
    the ugly fonts:\r\n\r\nThe first font in the example at the beginning of this
    thread is <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/larabie/primer-apples/\">Primer
    Apples</a> which was created for a German teacher at no charge based on drawings
    she had sent me. The dashed lines are supposed to look casual and have square
    ends. I don't know how such a font could be made much more beautiful but in the
    right context I think it looks fine. If Primer Apples was the only headline font
    in the above example and the theme was school, sewing or scrapbooking it would
    look alright.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/larabie/prime-minister-of-canada/\">Prime
    Minister of Canada</a> isn't so bad. I looks a little \"autotraced\" but I think
    it looks inky and appropriate at about 12 points in print. In the context you've
    shown, it's been tracked wide and seems to have a fake bold applied to it. In
    proper use, it comes off as 1960s style casual pen & ink lettering.\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/larabie/sexsmith/\">Sexsmith</a> is just cute.
    The early version was pretty weak but I've seen it used in beautiful ways over
    the years. In a context where cuteness is required, Sexsmith does its job well.
    Unfortunately, many freeware font sites still carry the old version.\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/larabie/vahika/\">Vahika</a> was created as
    a by-product of a FontLab tutorial and yeah, it pretty much blows goats. You'd
    never guess that someone would use it for paragraph text but there it is.\r\n\r\nMany
    creators of web font technology have contacted me over the years. <a href=\"http://www.truefontfamily.com/\">True
    Font Family</a> is the best one I've seen. It works right now with current browser
    technology and anyone capable of basic HTML/CSS coding can handle it. It works
    right now with no plugins. I don't know if it would be suitable for text but it
    seems to work well in headlines. There's an iGoogle app available as well."
  created: '2008-03-19 18:07:48'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Thanks for chipping in Ray, and please accept my apologies for any unintended
    offense. \r\n\r\nOne question, does the W3C/Safari mechanism meet with your approval?
    If so what's the feeling about readme.txt files being separated from raw fonts
    posted on the Web? I would have thought that would be a major problem for many
    freeware and open-source font designers? \r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-19 18:31:41'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>But, if we are speaking in general terms I fear for what the web will
    become.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't. The web already has some nasty features: Animated
    GIFs, the Marquee tag, the blink tag, ...\r\nBut just because they are there,
    doesn't mean they will be used all the time. At least not on professional websites.
    They are used on a Harry Potter fan site of a teenager. And this kid will be very
    happy to set the text in the Harry Potter free font. But that doesn't mean it
    will be used on Typophile. ;-)\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>You had a technique to hide the
    fonts, which introduces a barrier to misuse. Does this work with Safari\u2019s
    implementation?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt does. In my example there is no public URL for
    the font file itself. The font is only delivered (from the foundry website) after
    an authenticated request from an external (i.e. the client's) website. So no one
    can just look into the soure code and download the font. But in the end, the full
    font file is delivered to every browser. So of course it IS possible to get the
    font. And this will always be the case. Whether the font will be extracted from
    a browser cache, from the RAM or from a EOT-file. There is no bullet-proof protection.
    We all know this sort of discussion from the music industry, so we can learn from
    their mistakes. I think we shouldn't embrace the possibilities in this new and
    huge market as soon as possible. There are millions of websites out there and
    I am pretty sure that web designers will not hesitate to buy web licenses. We
    just need to figure out the right models and conditions. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2008-03-19 18:35:28'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: ">>I wonder if there are tables that can be removed from the fonts to make
    them less usable if extracted?\r\n<<\r\n\r\nThis is brilliant. \r\nI could imagine
    browsers making use of fonts without using the OS/2 table (just use the brute
    force head.Ymax and head.min values to do layout), yet removing that table would
    make the font all but useless when installed. Depending on how the glyphs are
    rendered, you might also be able to do a similar trick with the maxp table"
  created: '2008-03-19 18:40:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\r\n>I think we shouldn\u2019t embrace the possibilities in this new and
    huge market as soon as possible. \r\n\r\nI think you're right, clock is ticking.
    I bought this to the community's attention at TypeCon Boston, by TypeCon Buffalo
    we may be too late?\r\n\r\n>We just need to figure out the right models and conditions.\r\n\r\nAny
    chance you can make it to Seattle on Apr 4th? ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-19 18:44:23'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>We just need to figure out the right models and conditions.</cite>\r\n\r\nOne
    could always host the fonts on his own server, allow clients to link to those
    as opposed to hosting them, and charge a per-connection rate. It\u2019s not an
    easy option for indie foundries who can\u2019t deal with the server stuff, but
    the big vendors could probably pull it off. And when really high-traffic sites
    scoff at royalties, they can just be pushed to commission new designs outright\u2026"
  created: '2008-03-19 18:45:33'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "@Typodermic: Yes. I agree. Context is very important when using ANY (freeware
    or otherwise) FONT. \r\n\r\n@Ralf: True. True. Just because bells and whistles
    are available doesn't mean we need to use and/or see them in our daily surf n'
    turf."
  created: '2008-03-19 18:45:36'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: ">>\r\nThere are millions of websites out there and I am pretty sure that
    web designers will not hesitate to buy web licenses. We just need to figure out
    the right models and conditions.\r\n<<\r\n\r\nHear hear!\r\n[despite my previous
    comment, where I was tempted by the technical issue to be solved] I think Ralf's
    probably right, that the type industry could benefit from the failures of the
    music industry in DRM. This is the ideal time to look forward at different models
    of revenue streams (I know, easy for me to say.) \r\nIn the end, though, it'd
    be the Web designer's customers paying for the font license, right? Whoever owns
    the server would pay. I could see this working, with a few kinks worked out. Perhaps
    the license could be based on a yearly subscription, or maybe even a per X number
    of unique visitors model.\r\n\r\nJason C"
  created: '2008-03-19 18:46:56'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: '@James: I wondered about  that myself. With some foundries re-considering
    their EULAs to include web use why not just allow usage on the web via linking
    through the foundries themselves? Or would that be problematic too?'
  created: '2008-03-19 18:47:05'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Or would that be problematic too?\r\n\r\nThe foundries already post their
    fonts on Web servers - you just need to hand over your credit card details to
    get them. So security on the server is within the realm of possibility. But as
    Ralf said...\r\n\r\n\"Whether the font will be extracted from a browser cache,
    from the RAM or from a EOT-file. There is no bullet-proof protection.\"\r\n\r\nThe
    fonts end up on the unlicensed Web surfing end-users machine, where they can get
    them with no effort (or trivial effort) and that's where the foundries concerns
    kick in, and its a this point the concerns need to be overcome with the promise
    of significant revenue.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-19 18:58:23'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: ">>\r\nwhy not just allow usage on the web via linking through the foundries
    themselves? Or would that be problematic too?\r\n<<\r\n\r\nwell, there could be
    complications, certainly. For instance, the web designer and their clients would
    then be dependent on the foundry's server, so if the foundry's server went down,
    the client's site wouldn't show the font. Also, the web client's traffic would
    be \"inherited\" by the foundry, who's server would use some of it's own bandwidth
    to provide the font (although I think that's in the noise, presumably the foundry
    would use some of it's profit to increase their own bandwidth.)\r\n\r\njason C "
  created: '2008-03-19 18:59:02'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Right. I misunderstood that. :^/
  created: '2008-03-19 18:59:14'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>I could imagine browsers making use of fonts without using the OS/2
    table (just use the brute force head.Ymax and head.min values to do layout), yet
    removing that table would make the font all but useless when installed. </cite>\r\n\r\nI
    wouln't be suprised if something like this would already work with Apple's implementation.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-19 19:02:46'
- author:
    name: billy.wq
  body: "@ aluminum, sil:\r\nIf the \"software product\" is uploaded and used by the
    client's machine to render a web page, then who exactly is breaking copyright?
    I guess to put in other terms, if I upload a copy of Photoshop to your machine
    and you start using it who is responsible?\r\nThere are two acts of infringement
    I can see - the unauthorized use of a copyright work and the distribution of that
    work.\r\n\r\nIt would seem silly to go after the users, for one it's bad for business.
    But also it would be trivial to circumvent. Ie. if I design a web page with 'officina',
    I could just make a script that removes the metrics and repackage it as 'myCrappyOfficinaRipoff.ttf'
    and upload that to the clients browser.(I'm sure most of the free font pages are
    full of junk like this.) Regardless, I would think at that point that the user
    is no longer in violation.\r\n\r\nWhich would take us to distribution, which in
    this case is the graphic designer (or non-designer if you're going after someone's
    Myspace page). Obviously we would want good, ethical designers paying for the
    fonts they use; but the whole problem is these designers are not paying (or maybe
    type designers placing an unrealistic value on the wrong clients - I guess that's
    another topic). So if you are looking to get money out of these people that you
    believe have unfairly benefited from your work and they refuse to pay you'd have
    to have some kind of regulatory means of acquisition. You could setup an association
    of \"licensed designers\" and take fees from them, but the idea of licensing designers
    sounds pretty gross.\r\n\r\nSo if you can't get money from the designers you could
    go after the application publishers that enable the use of your work - Adobe,
    Apple, Microsoft. They could put a \"font tax\" on their products, but then if
    a designer is not going to pay for a font there's a good chance they'll use a
    pirated copy of InDesign. And who would receive this tax collected? Official type
    foundries? What about the individual designer? Then you have to determine value
    of one font versus the next, what a mess.\r\nYou could put a tax on the hardware
    makers, even the most unscrupulous designer is probably buying their computer
    legally unless they are knocking off old ladies. Isn't this what the music industry
    did? But still you'd have to distribute that money which would seem the difficult
    part.\r\n\r\nWhat was the point of this post? I forgot - Sorry for some rambling
    I'm just thinking out loud. I certainly don't mean to insult the work of type
    designers, it's quite the specialty - I guess the hard part id figuring out where
    to collect."
  created: '2008-03-19 19:06:21'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Billy, I''m not sure I follow your example but if you upload a font to a
    server, and make it available to end-users then the server owner is liable, just
    like any warez site owner that allows that. The foundry would send you (if they
    can find you) and the server owner a cease and desist.   '
  created: '2008-03-19 19:12:46'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The fonts end up on the unlicensed Web surfing end-users machine, where
    they can get them with no effort (or trivial effort)\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nGetting
    fonts for free is already pretty trivial. Especially compared to tracking down
    web sites using different weights of a family and downloading all of the fonts.
    What the font industry needs to do is monetize web fonts before someone else does
    it and covers the whole system with business method patents. "
  created: '2008-03-19 19:13:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I wouln\u2019t be suprised if something like this would already work with
    Apple\u2019s implementation.\r\n\r\nYep, it's surprising how much you can hack
    out of a font and still get it to work. For example the Zune fonts have no \"post\"
    table ;-) - but without the browser makers being on board the font would likely
    end up getting rejected.\r\n\r\nIn addition if foundries were to require subsetting
    and provided a subsetting tool with Web-distribution licensed fonts they could
    include some of this table removing technology too.  "
  created: '2008-03-19 19:13:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Getting fonts for free is already pretty trivial.\r\n\r\nI think this is
    different, I'm thinking more of the passive case where the fonts end up on the
    users machine with no intervention from the user. But I know what you're saying
    about \"easier ways to pirate\" - but so far the industry hasn't opted for the
    \"let's post everything on the web and use the honor system\" approach. "
  created: '2008-03-19 19:17:05'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "> One question, does the W3C/Safari mechanism meet with your approval? If
    so what\u2019s the feeling about readme.txt files being separated from raw fonts
    posted on the Web? I would have thought that would be a major problem for many
    freeware and open-source font designers?\r\n\r\nI'm not sure yet. When a revenue
    model becomes apparent to me it might be more obvious. I have some clients who
    I've allowed free access to Typodermic fonts for similar use in exchange for displaying
    the original font names to the user hopefully increasing brand recognition. When
    it comes to my freeware fonts, I'm more reluctant to allow them to be used that
    way. Brand recognition for Larabie Fonts typefaces is worth about zero dollars
    or less."
  created: '2008-03-19 19:17:40'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Ray>I\u2019m not sure yet.\r\n\r\nThanks for the honest response.\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si"
  created: '2008-03-19 19:20:17'
- author:
    name: billy.wq
  body: "@ sil, Sorry my example was a bit confusing. My point was that if a letter
    form is non-copyrightable, and that only the \"software package\" is - then my
    creation \"myCrappyOfficinaRipoff.ttf\" would in fact be a separate work in it's
    own right and subject to the copyright that I determine for it. I could upload
    this to any server I want because it is indeed my creation. A program on a warez
    server would be different because that is someone else's product being hosted.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-19 19:32:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Two quick notes on the readme.txt accompanying the freeware/open source font
    before someone flames me...\r\n\r\n1. Hakon Lie proposed the use of .zip as a
    container, that way the readme could be contained and eliminate the issue, (providing
    the EULA allowed intact redistribution)\r\n\r\n2. OFL at least seems to consider
    this type of redistribution \"embedding\" - I'm not entirely convinced, but if
    they don\u2019t see it as an issue, neither should I.  \r\n"
  created: '2008-03-19 19:33:03'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Billy, yep that has been a concern around web fonts, that to circumvent licenses
    people might strip (c) strings change the names etc., but foundries have been
    successful in having these removed from warez sites too. '
  created: '2008-03-19 19:35:34'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Tiffany: <em> Si is one of the least mean people I know and I say this as
    an associate of his as well as a moderator.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't know Sii personally,
    I only know him by the things he says at Typophile. From what I see of Sii at
    Typophile, he does not appear to be a nice person. Why is it, Tiffany, that I
    notice this about Sii, but I don't notice the same trait in you or Chris or William
    or John Hudson or Ricardo, or many other well-behaved members?\r\n\r\nThere must
    be something in that, but I am not going to hang around to witness the denial
    of it. Not by you or anybody else.\r\n\r\nYou cannot tell me what I see. You cannot
    deny reality. It will bite you back in the bum one day. Truth is worth more than
    pride. Truth cannot be denied.\r\n\r\nSii attacked me personally not so long ago
    on the first thread dealing with CSS web font embedding. He did so unopposed,
    with impunity.\r\n\r\nAs usual typophile's cabal members are supporting each other.
    Miss Giggles is usually far out of her depth, but she is right when she accuses
    you all of what I am accusing you of--- being a cabal, 20 or more of you ganging
    up on one person and simply covering each other's arses. Some time ago the member
    named CuriousType tried to put it to Typophilers that an alarming amount of snarkiness
    and poison flies around these boards. He was right, but you all held ranks and
    denied it. You are doing exactly the same thing now. That's what cabals do. A
    cabal is oligarchic by nature. A self-sustaining tyranny.\r\n\r\n<em>Larabie fonts
    are also mentioned in the original article to which Si linked.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd
    that's supposed to be some kind of precedent to follow? Ray is a member here and
    every other Typophile member owes it to him to not follow the example set by that
    article. Put yourselves in Ray's shoes and try to imagine how it would feel to
    be him.\r\n\r\naluminium: <em>Ray was likely mentioned as he is often mentioned
    as the example by the Hakon Lie (one of the \u2019inventors\u2019 of CSS/employed
    by Opera)</em>\r\n\r\nThat's no excuse to continue doing the same thing here,
    on this thread.\r\n\r\nThis is where it ends.\r\n\r\nSii: <em>Thanks for chipping
    in Ray, and please accept my apologies for any unintended offense.</em> \r\n\r\nBetter.
    Much better. It's about time you learned to apologise. Thankyou for listening.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-03-19 20:32:14'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Jim Rimmer, for example, gave up on Typophile because of the snottiness of
    its denizens.\r\n\r\nIt's true. Ask him if you don't believe me.\r\n\r\nj a m
    e s"
  created: '2008-03-19 20:44:47'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Tiffany: <em>But, if we are speaking in general terms I fear for what the
    web will become.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's why I spend as little time looking at the
    web as possible. It has always been ugly, and embedding ugly free fonts on web
    pages will probably make it uglier.\r\n\r\nThe cause of the ugliness lies principally
    with the people who create web pages. Bad free fonts encourage them, but there
    is such a thing as good aesthetic judgement and good taste. Around 1995 when the
    web got popular and became very commercial, untold numbers of fools suddenly decided
    they were going to be graphic designers. If only they were qualified with aesthetic
    prowess.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-03-19 20:55:23'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Sii: <em>If the moderators think I\u2019m out of line they can call me on
    it right here...</em>\r\n\r\nThe mods *do not* call you on it right here Sii because
    they support you as a routine matter of Typophile's political policy. The reason
    I requested they talk to you offline was to avoid further topic drift and derailment
    of this thread.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-03-19 20:58:05'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Sii: <em>In addition the \u201CPS\u201D comment about Ray\u2019s fonts having
    their place, was an honest effort to counter any perception that I was anti-Ray
    in my earlier post. I know various Microsoft games groups use his fonts, and I
    was lucky enough to be able to license one of his fonts (through an agent) for
    redistribution in Halo 3.</em>\r\n\r\nOkay. Thanks for clarifying.\r\n\r\nj a
    m e s"
  created: '2008-03-19 21:00:13'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: James...I think you're too serious for the internet. ;o)
  created: '2008-03-19 21:12:38'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "What exactly do you mean by \u201Cno kerning support\u201D? Did you refer
    only to Web fonts (sic) and not to ordinary text in Web pages? \r\n\r\n\u2014
    \ \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2008-03-19 21:24:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "3.1 doesn't seem to apply kerning on the font I tried (old school TTF with
    kern table) - off-topic - this freaked me out... \r\n\r\nhttp://forums.macnn.com/84/mac-os-x-archives/191267/kern_protection_failure-what/
    \r\n\r\n...but it turned out to be non font related."
  created: '2008-03-19 21:49:05'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I call out everyone who I feel is being rude. Maybe my rude monitor isn't
    turned tight enough. There are a few people that I simply ignore because I think
    they are proof of bipedal ignoramuses. But I knew Si meant no harm. He came out
    and corrected himself. Ray understood. End of story for me. \r\n\r\nI do not hesitate
    to stand up for people I know. Especially if I feel they are being misunderstood.
    I've done my best and that is all I can do.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-19 22:24:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "So that is why you have been ignoring me, Tiff :-)\r\n\r\nSheeeesh, and I
    don't even own a bicycle ;-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-19 22:34:35'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "James, I respect you, but you're taking Si's comments far too seriously.
    I'm sure if you contacted him directly after you felt offended that he would have
    been happy to put his comments into context and probably even apologize for any
    insensitivity. But instead you've accused him in the public square for something
    that most would argue was your own misinterpretation.\r\n\r\nI am sorry to hear
    Jim Rimmer avoids Typophile because he felt offended. I think that may be indicative
    of an unfamiliarity with online communication that is often suffered by older
    users. Not only is talk on the web (unfortunately) less genteel, but the poster's
    age, experience, tone, and demeanor aren't immediately apparent like they are
    in the real world. This makes giving people the benefit of the doubt all the more
    important. Ask for clarification before accusation. Assume the best in people
    and you'll get it."
  created: '2008-03-19 23:26:15'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "James, I don't agree that Typophile is run by a cabal. As any other on-line
    community, Typophile benefits from the \"crowd effect\". This means, Typophile
    is not controlled by just a few people as you seem to think, but by the masses,
    all of us members. We're all free to express our views, and the moderators are
    here to help in case someone gets way out of line. But even them, the moderators,
    are not immune to criticism, and we, the non-moderators, have call them to the
    stand on other occasions. We all have good days and bad days, and sometimes we
    wished we hadn't said something, or wished we could have said it in a different
    way. I'm sure that regular contributors gain from the experiences on past threads
    that didn't go the way they expected, and have that in mind before posting the
    next reply. At least I do. You also have to keep in mind that this medium can't
    communicate all the original emotions that went into the reply (which is actually
    good, in some cases!). So, it's possible that you interpreted Simon's post in
    a way that he didn't intend to.\r\n\r\nAnyways, all in all I think that a lot
    of the friction around here is caused by the fact that we're not interacting face-to-face,
    and because very few know each other personally. If everyone attended to type
    conferences and spent some time socializing, some discussions around here would
    probably have a less harsher tone.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-19 23:45:02'
- author:
    name: jsouttar
  body: "Worse that poorly spaced Arial? Worse than (the execrable) Comic Sans? \r\n\r\nAnd
    the type community is against typographic diversity on the web?\r\n\r\nC'mon!\r\n\r\nI
    clearly remember Roger Black declaring, at Type '90, that by the year 2000 everybody
    would have their favourite font. What I don't think any of us realised then was
    that it would one or other of the tiny Microsoft core set: Verdana or Tahoma.
    But, back then, few of us saw the web coming...\r\n\r\nThank goodness we seem
    to be living through another typographical renaissance (perhaps we should call
    this 'the Latin type renaissance' - referring to the powerhouse of Southern European
    and Latin American type designers who seem to be driving it, rather than the Latin
    alphabet). But I wonder how the fantastic and prolific creations of all these
    independent type designers and type houses has a chance given the monolithic effect
    of a type-constrained web. \r\n\r\nHave none of you had a client who wants to
    use Verdana in print, because that's what is used on their website? If I had a
    glyph for each time that has happened... I'd probably now be in unicode. \r\n\r\nBut
    what about legibility? Seeing as reading glasses recently caught up with me, with
    a vengeance, I have to say I can't read anything on the web now anyway, without
    pushing 'Make Text Bigger' several times, at least (the days of 7pt addresses
    on my business cards consigned to a now cringe-worthy past). In any case, Arial
    renders so badly - and looks so dreadful - at almost every size - and so many
    people use it - that the idea of Apple unleashing a deluge of unreadability is
    ridiculuous. These days I like my type big, and wonder why more webdesigners aren't
    using headlines and decent sized standfirst. And at 24pt or above, at 72dpi, I
    can cope with the vagaries of anti-aliasing. What I can't cope with is typographic
    blandness. (And if type on screen is so bad, how come I lust to own at least half
    of the faces shown on this site's 'best of...' lists?)"
  created: '2008-03-20 13:46:11'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "James, thanks for joining typophile!\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t think you\u2019ll
    find anyone here who\u2019s not bored with Verdana and Georgia, and you\u2019ll
    find plenty of people who don\u2019t like the way Helvetica or Arial renders on
    their iPhone. But which <EM>freeware</EM> fonts (assuming their designers allow
    them to be used under this scheme) do you consider an improvement in the legibility
    department? Which ones would you like to see used on the Web sites you commonly
    visit for continuous text? Which freeware font would you use to read a site like
    Typophile? \r\n"
  created: '2008-03-20 14:45:18'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I actually kind of like using Verdana in print. I\u2019m too pretentious
    to use it for a paying gig, but almost all of my research materials are now formatted
    in Verdana because it\u2019s easy to read at a range of sizes in print or on screen. "
  created: '2008-03-20 15:04:21'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: I'm not bored with Georgia.
  created: '2008-03-20 16:44:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Not even a little bit? ;-)
  created: '2008-03-20 16:52:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Me either, Kent! I guess all I ask of it is clean reading and it does that
    pretty darn well!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-20 16:58:35'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Which kind of comes back to Miguel's question/joke...\r\n\r\n>Can someone
    remind me where in the Preferences I turn this thing off ? \r\n\r\nI didn't see
    an off-switch, maybe it's there if not we need someone with influence like John
    Gruber to ask Apple to add one. \r\n"
  created: '2008-03-20 17:25:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I didn\u2019t see an off-switch\"\r\n\r\nMore like an emergency ejection
    switch!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-20 17:32:31'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "James, I agree that a huge amount of vitriol surges through Typophile from
    time to time. It isn't good, but it may be the price we pay for having a rich
    fast free and deeply helpful resource. For me it is utterly worth it. For Jim
    it was not. I too have talked to him about that ( in person which was very very
    nice indeed ) and I encouraged him to come back. I think if you feel know what
    you need to know to do what you are doing ( he does ) the draw to typophile may
    be less as well. That is unless you want to try to promote an idea or two! \r\n\r\nAbout
    Moderating: As a moderator I am sure I don't find or intervene in all the vitriol
    that goes by, but when I do and it seems excessive I usually encourage folk to
    keep it nicer. But it has to be a bit protracted and really I can't MAKE THEM.
    Further, unless somebody is making personal accusations or insults ( as opposed
    to insulting their work ) I/we don't come down like a ton of bricks. And yes,
    unfortunately that has happened. \r\n\r\nThere are a lot of good reasons to be
    nice! My favorite being that it helps ideas be exchanged more smoothly. This is
    happily enough for lots of people. However paradoxically enough it is a respect
    for the free flow of ideas that also stops us from not MAKING them stop even if
    they are not being 100% nice. And actually I don't think Typophile would be as
    useful without a candor that might feel cutting to some some of the time.\r\n\r\nSo
    about what Si wrote: I realize that what Si wrote looked very personal to you
    but I actually think his real concern was aesthetic which he has every right to.
    These are different things. \r\n\r\nAnother aspect to consider is a kind of human
    adaptation/weakness. If you know somebody and respect them and have seen their
    posts be helpful again and again and again it is possible that your sense of what's
    right, fair, nice, etc when it comes to their posts is shifted a bit. You may
    give them more benefit of the doubt. It's not ideal but it's human and no doubt
    this is even adaptive to a degree. In my case I am sure you fall into that category,
    so as you see it works both ways. Not that that should matter. So as I say when
    it comes to moderating I try hard to put that aside in the interests of fairness
    but I can't be sure I or anybody else succeeds. In fact the reverse. Knowing you
    will fail isn't an excuse for not trying. Instead it all the more reason for doing
    your best. I promise to keep doing that.\r\n\r\nI am happy to talk with you or
    any Typophiler about this further and I am interested in fairness and in recognizing
    my and our failings. Here or on IM or email or whatever.\r\n\r\n<cite> Typophile\u2019s
    political policy </cite> This is fiction. Maybe we should be that organized (
    or maybe not! ) but the reality is that we are not. What you see is a unconnected
    pattern of individual responses. You may not agree with the pattern. And you don't
    have to be silent about it. But that's what it is - a pattern- not a a policy.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    I do very much hope you hang around! \r\n\r\nLet's keep talking about the embedding...\r\n\r\nI
    don't think locking things down is a viable or desirable option. Okay maybe personally
    it is... \r\n\r\nAnd while the interweb* may get uglier for a time while people
    learn how to use the tool it may be a great thing eventually - but not if the
    Type industry doesn't work to create a mechanism to take advantage of this catastrophe/opportunity
    that includes kerning! Sadly I don't have one in mind.\r\n\r\nThis is happening
    for a reason which is that if you want substantial control over the look of your
    text you have to opt for a display layer in flash and a searchable layer in HTML.
    \ No?\r\n\r\nSince ring tones are being sold (Licensed) with songs maybe fonts
    could be too. What do you think?\r\n\r\n* What do you call it these days any way?"
  created: '2008-03-20 20:02:09'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: " Wow, I leave for a while and look what happens.* Anyway, back to Safari.\r\n\r\nI
    like aluminum's theory, but I suspect that it's not as contained as that. I think
    it's just the next step. Rich content on the web has always been a goal, with
    mixed results, and being able to use a broad palette of fonts on 'live' web content
    just makes sense (in terms of technological development). Preventing use of 'bad'
    fonts has never stopped people from designing dreck on the web, so allowing them
    will not change anything. Those whose medium is crap will still be crap, regardless
    of how many varieties they have on hand.\r\n\r\nThe music industry has finally
    turned the barge around and is now embracing digital content (see <a href=\"http://www.joystiq.com/2008/03/20/rock-band-surpasses-6-million-song-downloads/\">Rock
    Band's 6 million song downloads</a>) but only after being essentially overrun
    by consumers who decided that they would get their content the way they want to,
    whether the industry came along or not. The type industry is going to have to
    experience this as well. The structure and relationship of type vendors/makers
    and the consumer is a model based on old technologies that empowered the supplier
    over the user. The web runs counter to that, particularly when it comes to digital
    content. Period.\r\n\r\nI think Si is right: those who go for the free/super-cheap
    fonts model will become, in a way, font gods on the web. Look at Chank! It's not
    a comment on quality, just a fact. People want it fast and cheap (free) on the
    web, end of story. Type makers are in the unfortunate position of being practically
    unknown, which makes the piracy worse, as most people assume A) it's very easy,
    or B) fonts are made by huge monolithic corporations only. It eases their minds
    as they steal from type designers. But if they'll do it with music, they'll do
    it with type.\r\n\r\nI am <em>not</em> saying that I want to see type designers
    and vendors get bludgeoned by technology, nor do I think this whole thing will
    sort itself out in a clean, desirable, or profitable manner. But it will sort
    itself out no matter what, and we will all have to deal with it. I was lucky enough
    to skip the early days of digital type, which I heard were a mess as well. I gather
    than type distribution has been a mess since day one. Then add the web to that.
    People are empowered by the web, for better or worse, and Apple's just doing what
    any smart tech company should do: keeping up with change, or at least preparing
    for it.\r\n\r\nPerhaps the real solution is updating the sales model. Maybe use
    free web-friendly fonts to draw the users? Or distribute fonts to key websites
    in exchange for some ad space/attribution? In reality, most users will not use
    fonts that are illegible, and most web designers will stick to what works. This
    problem is the start of big changes, but I'm not sure that Safari is going to
    trigger any real problems. Not that many people use it outside of the iPhone (though
    I do).\r\n\r\nIt would be nice if there were an easy way to display a chosen typeface
    without the user needing it. I bet one day computers will be able to do calculations
    on the fly to allow something akin to that. But maybe we'll have designed the
    perfect typeface and we'll all just be using that...\r\n\r\n; )\r\n\r\nBoy, I
    sure can blather on about this.\r\n\r\n*A joke. I have no influence on Typophile."
  created: '2008-03-20 21:57:02'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "James;\r\nI believe I am as far removed from the group that moderates and
    controls Typophile as possible. But I also know Si, and I support everything Tiffany
    said about him. Although I could easily detect the humor and sarcasm in his post,
    I applaud his effort to apologize for any unintentional offense.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    although this forum has seen it's share of flame and venom, it is tame and polite
    compared to nearly every other forum of this type that I've seen on the web. It's
    a very large community now, so I expect that every once in a while, some ugliness
    could crop up - that can't be helped. But by comparison, Typophile is a pretty
    friendly place to hang out.\r\n\r\nJason C"
  created: '2008-03-21 01:13:00'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "What if this was limited to h1,h2,h3,h4,h5... tags. IE for display use only.
    Less griping?\r\n\r\nAlso, I wonder if the font couldn't be protected or at least
    be buried under a server side scripting language such as php. \r\n\r\nI think
    this is an opportunity. Web typography now has an even stronger place at the table,
    just as it does in print. Nobody is stopping people from using bad type badly,
    or even good type badly in print. But with that as the backdrop, print with fine
    typography shines even brighter. If there is a raft of stinky type on the web,
    how much more will people visit the tasteful ones.\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2008-03-21 04:30:23'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"What if this was limited to h1,h2,h3,h4,h5... tags. IE for display use
    only. Less griping?\"\r\n\r\nThat would lead to the ignorant just using more non-semantic
    markup which would lead to even more griping. ;o)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-21 13:56:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What if IE and other noncompliant browsers would get fixed?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-21 14:56:41'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABWhat if IE and other noncompliant browsers would get fixed?\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    have a smashing deal especially for you. It\u2019s a cozy little tower (324 m)
    in the centre of gay Paris, built by a guy named Eiffel. I\u2019m selling it really
    cheap, too."
  created: '2008-03-21 15:14:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ":-)\r\n\r\nLOL!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-21 15:21:23'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Randy: PHP can create images dynamically containing whatever text you''d
    like, in the typeface of your choice. Images have drawbacks though.'
  created: '2008-03-21 19:07:37'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: No kerning for one - yes?
  created: '2008-03-21 21:29:57'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "@Ois\xEDn: I'm interested! ;^)"
  created: '2008-03-21 22:05:25'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>What if IE and other noncompliant browsers would get fixed?</cite>\r\n\r\nIE
    8 seems to be leaning in that direction. It seems that <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/J_Allard\">someone
    at Microsoft</a> figured out that not deliberately screwing over your own customers
    actually generates revenue and now the rest of the company is catching up. "
  created: '2008-03-21 22:37:28'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "<em>Randy: PHP can create images dynamically containing whatever text you\u2019d
    like, in the typeface of your choice. Images have drawbacks though.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    hear you, but that isn't what I meant. What I'm suggesting is that it might be
    possible to have a php file as a gate keeper for the typeface file, allowing it
    to be rendered only on a website hosted on the same server. In that way, you'd
    prevent someone from direct linking your font and redistributing it (or at least
    you'd make it harder). The idea comes from SIFR which has similar issues. But
    it's possible to write a lock in the SWF that requires a key to be passed from
    the site requesting the flash. Uncrackable, no. But it can prevent casual direct
    linking of SIFR flash movies. \r\n\r\nIn this case instead of linking to font.ttf
    in the css you'd link to font.php (similar to php image rotation scripts). The
    php would in turn write the ttf, but only if a particular variable was set. Such
    as via a cookie earlier. I am no php expert, so cookies are probably not the desired
    or elegant way to do it. But it seems like something like this could work.\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2008-03-22 05:21:44'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: It sounds crackable but not casually. Maybe you should build it! Maybe it
    could be made very very hard to crack...
  created: '2008-03-22 06:25:33'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Maybe you should build it! Maybe it could be made very very hard to
    crack...</cite>\r\n\r\nI already did this last year:\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/38534\r\n\r\nIt
    is built in a way so that the font can be requested only from one specific site.
    But like I said before: No matter how you disguise the font on the server, in
    the end the full font file is downloaded to EVERY user accessing this (authorized)
    site. It will always be possible to catch the font at this point and there is
    nothing we can do about it. \r\nBut maybe a mix of several features would do it.
    I like the idea of stripping some tables, so the font would work in the browser
    but the operating system would refuse to install it. Maybe someone could play
    around with that idea and see if this already works. \r\n"
  created: '2008-03-22 09:12:56'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "There is a problem with request verification: it\u2019s easy to spoof. There\u2019s
    already a Firefox plugin that does it to grant free access to sites like <em>The
    Wall Street Journal</em>, which give free access to links from Digg or Google
    News. The real upside to licensing embedded fonts from one\u2019s own server is
    that it makes it really easy to spot people who use a font and did not pay to
    embed it; in this case the pirate would not simply be in violation of a EULA,
    he would be making copyrighted software available, which can lead to a hefty civil
    judgement. "
  created: '2008-03-22 15:49:10'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "James, maybe that's precisely how we should do it then....\r\n\r\nGet a group
    of good lawyers together and say \"here's a list of 2000 sites that have illegally
    used my fonts, have fun, keep 50%\".  I have they'd be worth the investment haha.\r\n\r\nRemember
    though, with fonts the same thing as with high quality images happens.  You can
    restrict access to the file initially, but after that it's in the wild.  Think
    about stock photo sites.  They give low res previews, and then later after purchasing
    you can download massively huge high quality files.  The font selling model is
    virtually identical.\r\n\r\nSo the question then becomes the value of putting
    up fonts for free access like putting up images for free access on other sites.
    \ I have one part of a font that given the recent happenings in Safari I might
    post for others to link to in this manner. I can't imagine that many people using
    it, but I might use the .php method to capture which sites are using it, see just
    how it goes, if any would be interested in the results.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro
    es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB.
    (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-03-22 19:17:14'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Sii wrote:\r\n\r\n<em>I didn\u2019t see an off-switch, maybe it\u2019s there</em>\r\n\r\nI
    read through the configuration options in the WebKit source code, there is no
    hidden preference to turn webfonts off.\r\n\r\nJens."
  created: '2008-03-22 20:00:33'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "For future reference <a href=\"http://docs.info.apple.com/article.html?artnum=307467\">About
    the Safari 3.1 Update</a>.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-24 01:31:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...there is no hidden preference to turn webfonts off\"\r\nSafari's next
    move, I predict, is to get rid of that pesky url thingy and simply send us straight
    to the web site \r\nApple 'thinks' we want to go to. This will be followed by
    an IE upgrade that follows the same path, except MS sends us to the site MS thinks
    we should to go to. Obey, and the web will look much better, revolt and you'll
    see nothing but arial for the rest of your miserable san serif life. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-25 11:03:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "But David, first MS will have a bouncing paperclip jump up and say, \"Hey!
    it looks like you want to visit the Shop-til-ya-Drop site so I am just goin to
    take you there so happily :-)\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-25 12:27:40'
- author:
    name: solfeggio
    picture: 112465
  body: "Sii wrote: \"I didn\u2019t see an off-switch, maybe it\u2019s there.\"\r\n\r\nBut
    Clippy sez: [img:sites/default/files/old-images/clippy_sez__6251.png]\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-25 14:19:29'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Which web sites does Mr Jobs frequent? If we can convince a few of these
    to use a few lower quality freeware fonts then my money is that Safari 3.11 will
    hit the streets with an off switch within 3.11 days.      '
  created: '2008-03-25 16:39:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "BMW, Audi, Turtlenecks-R-Us :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-25 17:20:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I was thinking... http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Hodgman , http://fakesteve.blogspot.com/
    , http://daringfireball.net/ '
  created: '2008-03-25 17:26:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I''m starting to like this plan. Miguel & Tom, would anyone have a problem
    if someone were to make a "Fake Apple Myriad" to post on http://fakesteve.blogspot.com/
    ? '
  created: '2008-03-25 17:31:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!!!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-25 19:03:12'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I did a little test and found that Safari 3.1 does not honor embedding bits.
    I created a test TrueType font with embedding set to the most restrictive setting
    and the Safari happily displayed the font anyway. Perhaps Apple does not consider
    such fonts to be embedded.\r\n\r\nAlso, I haven't been able to figure out where
    the font is cached locally (assuming it is). Perhaps the file is renamed the way
    QuickTime movies are when they are cached locally. On the other hand, it was very
    easy to download the font using the path specified in the css file.\r\n\r\n:-/\r\n\r\nMaybe
    Trent Reznor or Chris Anderson is reading and will chime in with some encouraging
    words."
  created: '2008-03-25 19:11:51'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "By the way: If you open the developer panel you can even browse the embedded
    fonts.\r\n(And see the download URLs.)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/developer_5930.png]"
  created: '2008-03-25 20:35:32'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: It also works with OpenType fonts. Maybe I should revert to just selling Mac
    TrueType and Type 1 fonts. The suitcase files would be unusable on a web server.
    (I'm kidding, I think.)
  created: '2008-03-26 01:00:10'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "In addition to ignoring kerning, it also ignores ligatures as this [[http://coruna.elahorcado.net/frakturTest.html|quick
    test]]\_shows (the sz ch sk and sch should be shown as ligatures).  Hopefully
    they'll get it to start using font features rather than just simply displaying
    the glyphs in order.  \r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas
    nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-03-26 01:05:50'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "It gets better (by \"better\" I mean \"worse\"): Open the Activity window
    and you will see a list of fonts used on the page. Double-click and the font is
    in your downloads folder.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/safari-fonts_6567.jpg]"
  created: '2008-03-26 01:15:58'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Note, in the screen shot I posted: No kerning, no contextual forms.\r\n\r\nAs
    a font user and web user, I think this is a step forward. But as someone who sells
    fonts for a living, it makes me just a bit nervous. I'd like to think this is
    an opportunity, but I can't quite see how yet."
  created: '2008-03-26 01:26:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Someone (Ralf maybe) confirmed that Webkit worked with .OTF fonts last-year
    and there's no reason not to, as all modern OS's support them. Not so sure about
    iPhone and mobile devices? Anyone know?\r\n\r\nI think the TTF positioning we
    saw last year was to place the focus on 'freeware' fonts which are predominantly
    Windows flavor TTFs. \"Pay no attention to the OTF land grab behind the curtain\"
    ;-)\r\n\r\n> I\u2019d like to think this is an opportunity, but I can\u2019t quite
    see how yet.\r\n\r\nI think in the almost two years this has been on the radar,
    there is either no opportunity* here, or someone has worked one out and is keeping
    it to themselves. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si \r\n\r\n*unless you count Hakon Lie\u2019s
    \u201CFont designers will find an outlet for their creativity; users will get
    visually richer content.\u201D ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-26 03:56:51'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Double-click and the font is in your downloads folder.</cite>\r\n\r\nTry
    that on my demo site and try to download Kaffeesatz:\r\nhttp://www.fonts.info/webfonts/\r\n\r\n:-)\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>there
    is either no opportunity* here, or someone has worked one out and is keeping it
    to themselves.</cite>\r\n\r\nAs long as Safari is the only browser supporting
    it, it won't kick off. But once the majority of users could see it, it will get
    a huge deal. "
  created: '2008-03-26 07:41:16'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Apologies for taking so long to get back to this thread. I'm having health
    problems lately and feeling decidedly unwell. Thanks everyone for your thoughtful
    responses.\r\n\r\nFirst and most significantly, I emphasize that the incident
    regarding Ray does not alter my view of Typophile or its members. I like you all
    and express the same respect for you all as Stephen has for me, but as some have
    already pointed out, none of us is immune to criticism. That includes me.\r\n\r\nAluminium:
    <em>James...I think you\u2019re too serious for the internet. ;o)</em>\r\n\r\nDarrel,
    there's more than a grain of accuracy in that. I have wicked sense of humour,
    and at the same time I am one who believes very strongly in the power of compassion
    to redeem the destructive side of human nature. The world does not meet my standards,
    the internet does not meet my standards. So I'm spending less and less time at
    Typophile these days as a practical measure. I will always come back tho, from
    time to time, when I can manage it.\r\n\r\nMy serious outlook served me well at
    Wikipedia as a means of getting the typography articles there into shape. I beat
    off determined sociopaths and trolls there by putting their balls in a testicular
    vise. It worked.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-03-26 10:18:42'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Coles: <em>James, I respect you, but you\u2019re taking Si\u2019s comments
    far too seriously. I\u2019m sure if you contacted him directly after you felt
    offended that he would have been happy to put his comments into context and probably
    even apologize for any insensitivity. But instead you\u2019ve accused him in the
    public square for something that most would argue was your own misinterpretation.</em>\r\n\r\nSo
    what (the last bit)? Your logic is self-defeating and changes nothing. Sii made
    his comments regarding Ray in the public square. You are now trying to debunk
    my reaction in the public square. Some typophilers have had a go at Richard Kegler
    in the public square. You all had a go at Miss Giggles in the public square. Are
    you asking for special treatment for Sii? Why should he be treated any differently?
    He had a go at me by singling out my font EULA on the other thread on web font
    embedding. Yes he did. Let's reexamine the last bit again: \r\n\r\n<em>But instead
    you\u2019ve accused him in the public square for something that most would argue
    was your own misinterpretation.</em> That's just your opinion and you have no
    proof \"most people\" would argue I misinterpreted. Plus you're generalizing,
    \"most people\"? Gimme a break. You'll have to do better than that.\r\n\r\n<em>I
    am sorry to hear Jim Rimmer avoids Typophile because he felt offended. I think
    that may be indicative of an unfamiliarity with online communication that is often
    suffered by older users.</em>\r\n\r\nYou're generalizing again. Want proof? I
    feel the same way Jim Rimmer does, and I'm not an older user. I've seen many former
    members much younger than me leave tyophile in past years.\r\n\r\n<em>Not only
    is talk on the web (unfortunately) less genteel, but the poster\u2019s age, experience,
    tone, and demeanor aren\u2019t immediately apparent like they are in the real
    world. This makes giving people the benefit of the doubt all the more important.
    Ask for clarification before accusation. Assume the best in people and you\u2019ll
    get it.</em>\r\n\r\nAssumption of bad faith is a mistake everybody makes in online
    discussions. I do it, you do it, Darrel does it, John Hudson does it, Hrant, Nick
    Shinn, Sharon Van Lieu, James Puckett. It happens constantly, here and on every
    otehr message board on the web. Assumption of bad faith causes a lot of arguments
    (note I didn't say \"most\"). In the case of Sii's comments, I assumed bad faith
    because the snarkiness of what he said <strong>was as obvious as all get out</strong>.
    If you cannot admit that---CABAL!\r\n\r\n<em>Assume the best in people and you\u2019ll
    get it.</em>\r\n\r\nMan, that is so naive. Assume the best in some people and
    they take advantage of your good faith by stabbing you in the back. It happened
    to me recently and I've seen it happen to many other people at typophile.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-03-26 10:46:40'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Migel: <em>James, I don\u2019t agree that Typophile is run by a cabal.</em>\r\n\r\nYou've
    got blinkers on.\r\n\r\n<em>So, it\u2019s possible that you interpreted Simon\u2019s
    post in a way that he didn\u2019t intend to.</em>\r\n\r\nNo. I think I know better
    than you, I have sharper instincts about these things, and know exactly when to
    cut the cards. Trust me, I'm an alien.\r\n\r\n<em>If everyone attended to type
    conferences and spent some time socializing, some discussions around here would
    probably have a less harsher tone.</em>\r\n\r\nTell that to Hrant and Nick Shinn.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-03-26 10:52:46'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "I didn't assume bad faith in our \"incident\", James. I said that what you
    had written could cause serious embarrassment to me and I asked you to remove
    it - which you did. It didn't matter what your intentions were. The fact is, what
    you wrote embarrassed me. I am  56 years old. I think stories of me running around
    in a halter top make me look ridiculous and since my name is out there to be googled,
    I don't appreciate it one bit and I don't think I need to put up with it on a
    professional forum. \r\n\r\nYour intentions may have been pure but the result
    of your actions was mortifying. \r\n\r\nSharon\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-26 11:16:58'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Eben: <em>About Moderating: As a moderator I am sure I don\u2019t find or
    intervene in all the vitriol that goes by, but when I do and it seems excessive
    I usually encourage folk to keep it nicer. But it has to be a bit protracted and
    really I can\u2019t MAKE THEM. Further, unless somebody is making personal accusations
    or insults ( as opposed to insulting their work ) I/we don\u2019t come down like
    a ton of bricks. And yes, unfortunately that has happened.</em>\r\n\r\nWhy didn't
    you or another moderator cut the cards on all the threads where Nick Shinn and
    Hrant were tearing strips off each other? On one occasion it was left to John
    Hudson to moderate Nick and Hrant. John cut the cards on that occasion because
    the personal fight between them derailed the discussion so completely. Like Tiffany
    and Stephen, you're making excuses for your own intransigence and gutless attitude
    to the job of keeping civility.\r\n\r\n<em>Another aspect to consider is a kind
    of human adaptation/weakness. If you know somebody and respect them and have seen
    their posts be helpful again and again and again it is possible that your sense
    of what\u2019s right, fair, nice, etc when it comes to their posts is shifted
    a bit. You may give them more benefit of the doubt. It\u2019s not ideal but it\u2019s
    human and no doubt this is even adaptive to a degree. In my case I am sure you
    fall into that category, so as you see it works both ways. Not that that should
    matter. So as I say when it comes to moderating I try hard to put that aside in
    the interests of fairness but I can\u2019t be sure I or anybody else succeeds.
    In fact the reverse. Knowing you will fail isn\u2019t an excuse for not trying.
    Instead it all the more reason for doing your best. I promise to keep doing that.</em>
    \r\n\r\nIt isn't good enuff. You understimate human nature. \r\n\r\n<em>I am happy
    to talk with you or any Typophiler about this further and I am interested in fairness
    and in recognizing my and our failings. Here or on IM or email or whatever.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    don't do IM but give me a few days to think and I'll chat with you by email. I
    don't want to interrupt this thread any further.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-03-26 11:18:35'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Sharon: <em>I didn\u2019t assume bad faith in our \u201Cincident\u201D, James.
    I said that what you had written could cause serious embarrassment to me and I
    asked you to remove it - which you did. It didn\u2019t matter what your intentions
    were. The fact is, what you wrote embarrassed me. I am 56 years old. I think stories
    of me running around in a halter top make me look ridiculous and since my name
    is out there to be googled, I don\u2019t appreciate it one bit and I don\u2019t
    think I need to put up with it on a professional forum.</em>\r\n\r\nSharon, on
    that occasion I think you were being way too precious and serious with regard
    to yourself. I had no idea you are 56 years old so how could I possibly have known
    better? It would have helped if you had explained what you're telling me now.
    I even apologized to you by email and got no response, no explanation, after respecting
    your wishes.\r\n\r\nIf you think Typophile is a professional forum, oh brother,
    deary me, no it ain't. I'm kind of embarrassed to be a member. With so many out-of-control
    egos running the show, it's a circus of the psyche.\r\n\r\nI still maintain my
    respect for all of you, whilst being critical, if you can grapple with the duality
    of that.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-03-26 11:30:33'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "Precious...whatever. Serious, yes. I am a serious person. \r\n\r\nPlease
    leave me out of your discussions. \r\n\r\nTypophile is a professional forum for
    me. I've learned a lot here.  \r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2008-03-26 11:42:59'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "@me: <em>Double-click and the font is in your downloads folder.</em>\r\n\r\n@Ralf:
    <em>Try that on my demo site and try to download Kaffeesatz:</em>\r\n\r\n... and
    the font is now in my Downloads folder.\r\n\r\nOh, wait. Strike that. I only got
    the Cutty Fruty font. Kaffeesatz is not listed in the Activity window, just a
    link to some php code. Double-clicking just gets me a cheeky message. Very clever,
    whatever you did.\r\n\r\n<em>But once the majority of users could see it, it will
    get a huge deal.</em>\r\n\r\nI hope you mean for font developers."
  created: '2008-03-26 13:12:12'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>I hope you mean for font developers.</cite>\r\n\r\nI do. "
  created: '2008-03-26 13:24:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">someone has worked one out and is keeping it to themselves.\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2008-03-26 13:37:54'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"If you think Typophile is a professional forum, oh brother, deary me, no
    it ain\u2019t. I\u2019m kind of embarrassed to be a member. \"\r\n\r\nSeems that
    there are a lot of folks that make a living in the world of type design and graphic
    design in here. I'd call that quite professional.\r\n\r\nPerhaps not everyone
    agrees with the casual tone of the place. That's OK. We don't all have to agree. "
  created: '2008-03-26 13:51:47'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "<cite>Oh, wait. Strike that. I only got the Cutty Fruty font. Kaffeesatz
    is not listed in the Activity window, just a link to some php code. Double-clicking
    just gets me a cheeky message. Very clever, whatever you did.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut
    Kaffeesatz <em>is</em> sitting in my home folder.  It only took about 10 seconds
    using Terminal and no special options or weird commands.  Unfortunately, there's
    only ways of obfuscating these kinds of things.  Maybe a script which would provide
    fonts in an equal manner, but load several dozen fonts each with only a few characters
    but again that's only to obfuscate it more.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea
    tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz
    Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-03-26 16:51:12'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Why didn\u2019t you or another moderator cut the cards on all the
    threads where Nick Shinn and Hrant were tearing strips off each other? </cite>\r\n\r\nWhat
    is the \"cutting of cards\"? What did john Hudson do that was so effective? \r\n\r\n<cite>
    intransigence </cite> \r\n\r\n<cite> the job of keeping civility. </cite>\r\n\r\nI
    think it isn't an attitude I come to by choice. That's the part of your argument
    that I find either very naive or simply underinformed. I remain open to emailing
    with you later. I am interested in any practical & fair suggests to improve -
    myself or Typophile. At this point I must point out that you are comitting a minor
    typophile sin, which is taking a thread waaay off topic. If you must keep writing
    about this - and maybe you must - I won't stop you - please start a thread of
    your own.\r\n\r\nBut now back to the impending tragedy! The more I read the worse
    it seems. \r\n\r\nSi, are we doomed?"
  created: '2008-03-26 17:19:27'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>But Kaffeesatz is sitting in my home folder. </cite>\r\n\r\nThat's
    fine. When I set this up, I was mostly interested in the communication between
    the client and the \"foundry server\". It's far from being bullet-proof yet. But
    please send me an email how you did it (post AT fonts dot info) so I know if you
    used a security hole I know of. Thanks!\r\n\r\nRalf\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-26 18:58:38'
- author:
    name: fontforge
    picture: 114598
  body: ">>>I wonder if there are tables that can be removed from the fonts to make
    them less usable if extracted?>>>\r\n> I could imagine browsers making use of
    fonts without using the OS/2 table\r\n\r\nMissing an OS/2 table will not prevent
    Macs or Linux boxes from using the font. But it probably will make Windows unhappy.\r\n\r\n>Depending
    on how the glyphs are rendered, you might also be able to do a similar trick with
    the maxp table\r\nThis table contains important information for truetype instructions.
    The glyph count can be figured out from the size of the 'loca' table, but the
    other information cannot be. I don't think the font would work in a browser even.
    If it's got a CFF table rather than glyf then 'maxp' could probably be omitted.\r\n\r\nTables:\r\n'CFF
    ' -- Can't be omitted, contains outlines.\r\n'loca'/'glyf' -- Can't be omitted,
    contains outlines.\r\n\r\n'cmap' -- If you omit this you'd have to supply a GID
    stream on your web-page rather than text. I don't think that's a good idea (you'd
    have to extend html/xml somehow, and the w3c wouldn't go for it because you could
    only display with a particular version of a given font -- no speach synthesis
    possible).\r\n\r\n'head' -- Supplies unitsPerEm, without this table there would
    be no way to figure out how to scale the font.\r\n\r\n'hhea'/'hmtx' -- Omitting
    these would break a truetype font, but might be ok in a CFF font (the advance
    width is stored in the 'CFF ' table as well as the 'hmtx' table.\r\n\r\n'maxp'
    -- Omitting would probably break a truetype font, might be ok on a CFF font.\r\n\r\n'name'
    -- This could be omitted without breaking the font. But since that's where license
    info is stored it might not be a good idea. (FreeType will display a font without
    a 'name' table though)\r\n\r\n'OS/2' -- Omitting might make Windows unhappy, but
    is ok for Macs and FreeType\r\n\r\n'post' -- This could be omitted without breaking
    the font. (Again, FreeType will display a font without a 'post' table).\r\n\r\n\r\nSo
    the 'name' table seems about the only thing that contains non-essential information
    and might still break the font as far as the OS was concerned."
  created: '2008-03-27 02:23:11'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Great analysis. But maybe some of these techniques coupled with aggressive
    subsetting might make foundries more comfortable? Probably not.
  created: '2008-03-27 02:51:31'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "MacWorld - summary - it's all good...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.macworld.com/article/132708/2008/03/safari31.html\r\n\r\n\"First
    up is Web Fonts, an extension to CSS (cascading style sheets) whereby an entire
    TrueType font downloads automatically when a page loads. This eliminates the tedious
    design step of converting unusual fonts to graphics before placing them on a Web
    page, and assures that all viewers will see pages the same way, whether or not
    they have the fonts installed on their systems.\" ... \"Pages using Web Fonts
    load quickly and transparently in Safari 3.1\""
  created: '2008-03-27 06:02:54'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Si, are we doomed?\r\n\r\nI've given up being a merchant of doom. In my
    opinion despite being a somewhat slow moving beast the font business is stronger
    and more profitable than ever, with lawyers and biz-dev people at least as good
    as the type designers. It will survive this, but probably at the expense of increased
    enforcement costs, and a PR hit or two around that enforcement. \r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-27 06:09:47'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "We've been focusing on Safari here and the fact that you CAN'T turn this
    option off.\r\n\r\nI can't imagine Firefox or even IE putting that kind of big-brother
    power in the hands of the site designer. The web is about giving as much control
    to the consumer of the information as it does to the person disseminating it.\r\n\r\nSo,
    worse case scenario, there'll be a lot of ugly sites on iPhones. I do imagine
    Apple will change this option eventually, though."
  created: '2008-03-27 14:09:01'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Found this today - http://arstechnica.com/news.ars/post/20080327-safari-on-windows-decidedly-not-illegal-plus-font-fixes.html
    - ironic that in installing Safari I violated the Safari EULA - does Apple really
    expect web page designers to read font EULAs to determine redistribute-ability
    of a font, when they shipped a product with a EULA that almost every (Windows)
    user violates? Just goes to prove that no one reads the EULA, even the people
    who wrote it ;-)      \r\n\r\n>I do imagine Apple will change this option eventually,
    though.\r\n\r\nYes we shouldn't get hung up or sidetracked on this question, I'd
    consider it a bug. "
  created: '2008-03-27 15:23:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I can\u2019t imagine Firefox or even IE putting that kind of big-brother
    power in the hands of the site designer. \r\n\r\nIE... \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Capture_6087.JPG]"
  created: '2008-03-27 15:26:12'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "sii...yes. In case I didn't say that right, that's exactly what I meant...even
    IE wouldn't forbid the end-user from turning the option off. ;0)\r\n\r\nAs for
    the security issue, I stumbled upon Ralf's blog posting:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/38534\r\n\r\nIt
    was fairly easy to snag the font from that particular example."
  created: '2008-03-27 16:33:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Darrel, I understood the point, just wanted to show the dialog that\u2019s
    been in IE since V4. With respect to the (some may claim overly-complex) IE security
    zones dialog, this isn't about \"font security\" (eg extraction) but the risks
    around malicious or bad fonts. Turning off font download not only de-uglifies
    ugly web pages but also reduces the attack surface-area.  "
  created: '2008-03-27 16:48:59'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I agree that it's both a security and aesthetic/usability issue.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-27 17:48:57'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Ralf, I e-mailed you my technique and some possible enhancements. \r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-03-27 19:15:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'If you wouldn''t mind sharing with the details I can pass these to the IE
    team so they can consider these issues if/when they implement support in IE. Currently
    a font contained in an EOT is held in memory rather than as a file - although
    the EOT itself will get cached.  '
  created: '2008-03-27 21:53:56'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Also another thing to note, no one is taking control from the user.\r\n\r\nIn
    Safari, OmniWeb, and I assume most other browsers, you can specify a style sheet
    that overrides those used by websites, although this may have the side effect
    of canceling out any font selection in favor of a single font.  But, note there
    aren't any options about only allowing certain kinds of borders but not others.
    \ If you load a custom style sheet, that's what you get. \r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro
    es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB.
    (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em> "
  created: '2008-03-28 00:32:37'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "You have a point, but something that changes \"the game\" to this extent,
    probably should be optional, at least to begin with, especially if you're trying
    to build market share. Add to this the fact that fonts can contain executable
    code, Safari contains <A HREF=\"http://www.linux-watch.com/news/NS5622797384.html\">Freetype</A>,
    and I think making it an option based on security would have been a good idea.
    \ \r\n\r\nPS thanks for forwarding the other details."
  created: '2008-03-28 01:42:04'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "But even TIFF files at one point had an executable code bug...although granted
    you can turn off images, and most people aren't at the level of making their own
    CSS.\r\n\r\nSome of this is a consequence of using a browser like Safari or IE
    or FF.  IF (a big if i know) sites have proper HTML coding and structuring, there's
    no reason one can't broswe them without trouble with a browser like lynx.  Then
    you only get the text and information and nothing more.  A rather efficient way
    to browser sometimes.\r\n\r\nBut, since there are already options to ignore Java,
    Javascript, and images, I don't think it would be hard to specify no fonts otherthan
    those already on the machine.  Definitely in agreement an option would be nice.
    \ OKay bed time hehe\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas
    nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-03-28 02:14:25'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Say you made a new font-format called x. Example: \"Avenir.x\". X would be
    set up so that it had to fetch parts of the font data from several other files
    located on your server, linking to these files relatively (and somehow encrypted).
    \r\n\r\nIf you download \"avenir.x\" to a computer any relative links would brake
    causing the font to fail."
  created: '2008-03-29 12:18:30'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite> it had to fetch parts of the font data from several other files</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    guess Guifa already suggested something similar before.\r\nI just played around
    with that idea and was very surprised: It already works!\r\n\r\nSafari seems to
    already honor the definition of unicode ranges in the font-face declaration as
    it was proposed in the CSS3 working draft. So you can easily build one virtual
    CSS font from several (incomplete) physical font files. So the font acts like
    one normal font, but in the browser cache there will be a bunch of font files
    with incomplete character sets. Halleluja! :-)"
  created: '2008-03-29 16:42:46'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "The more interesting would be if you could shift the codepoint values in
    CSS but I don't think that's available even though I could have sworn it was,
    basically the current specification allows you to, say, superimpose a bold font
    for your normal text's capital letters (or in our case, unify a split font).  But,
    I don't see a way of say, setting your base font to be Times, and then superimpose
    Times Bold's alphabet onto regular Times' bold mathematics alphabet .  If I'm
    not just crazy that I thought you could do this in CSS please let me know but
    sadly I think it was over-thinking on my part.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una
    l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB.
    (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-03-29 16:44:50'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Sorry Ralf. I must have missed it scanning through.
  created: '2008-03-29 17:14:51'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>The more interesting would be if you could shift the codepoint values
    in CSS</cite>\r\n\r\n(To answer your email as well)\r\n\r\nMessing aroung with
    the Unicode values is a clever way of doing it - as long as you have full control
    over the site. But I think if we want to offer webdesigners fonts for embedding
    they wouldn't accept such hacks. Copy&Paste still has to work, an html text must
    also be working in the feed reader and so on.\r\n\r\nBut the combination of hiding
    the download URI and splitting the font file is a sufficient level of protection
    (at least to me). You could even break this down to single characters! Give the
    fonts the same name and they wouldn't even install in the OS. To rebuilt the original
    font would be more work than it is today to extract the \"Typophile featured face\".
    And since I wouln't put any kerning or OpenType features in a web fonts (because
    they are not supported), no one could rebuilt the original font, that may also
    be available with a regular print license. "
  created: '2008-03-29 17:42:19'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Shifting the code points via CSS as I was hoping would be possible would
    allow the text to stay clear for assistance devices and other automated things
    to still work (as well as copy and paste), but keeping a scrambled font file.
    \ With FontForge at least, if there aren't many (or any) code point overlaps,
    reconstructing a font, at least less kerning information and OT features, is relatively
    easy.\r\n\r\nWhile I agree its a good bit of work with broken apart files and
    hidden download URIs, it never hurts to investigate further options (although
    I think we've basically exhausted them at this point baring using JavaScript).\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-03-29 18:11:51'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "To come back to the dilemma of not having fonts worth embedding:\r\nWe decided
    to do something about it: http://www.fonts.info/info/press/free-fonts-for-font-face-embedding.htm\r\n\r\nIf
    you already run Safari 3.1 check out the demo page: http://www.fonts.info/info/press/font-face-embedding-demo.htm\r\nIf
    you don't, install it! Really! ;-)"
  created: '2008-04-03 18:45:29'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Ralf:\r\n\r\nNICE! That's great that you're doing that.\r\n\r\nInteresting
    EULA...it's the opposite of most out there (ie, free embedding, pay for print)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-03 19:44:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Cool - one of my key recommendations (for tomorrow\u2019s Business of Type
    talk) is that vendors make some fonts available (not necessarily for free) that
    are licensed for this type of use. That way you can draw a clear distinction between
    fonts you can use and those you can\u2019t. "
  created: '2008-04-03 19:55:29'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Re the EULA - would be nice to allow subsetting, and EOT creation. \r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si"
  created: '2008-04-03 20:00:10'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>That way you can draw a clear distinction between fonts you can use
    and those you can\u2019t.</cite>\r\n\r\nGood point. \r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>Re the EULA
    - would be nice to allow subsetting, and EOT creation.</cite>\r\n\r\nSince they
    can be embedded it all kinds of \xBBweb documents\xAB, EOT is definately included,
    even though it's not specifically mentioned.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-03 20:09:22'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "I just tried a developer build of Opera on XP, which has @font-face support.
    It doesn't use subpixel rendering, so the quality of our CFF fonts is rather bad
    and it doesn't seem to honor the unicode-range descriptor. So much for splitting
    up fonts to protect them. :-(\r\n\r\nWasn't Mr. H\xE5kon Lie also active on Typophile?
    Maybe we can invite him to this new thread.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-07 13:19:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Yes he did contribute to the last thread. To be honest I think splitting
    the issues into new separate threads might be more productive. As CTO of Opera
    he should be able to address the rendering quality issues. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2008-04-07 14:51:56'
- author:
    name: akma
    picture: 110015
  body: Has anyone spotted examples of font-face embedding in the wild?
  created: '2008-04-07 16:15:38'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Two examples:\r\n\r\nhttp://es-de-we.net/\r\nA weblog using the creative
    commons font \"Vollkorn\" for headlines.\r\n\r\nhttp://opentype.info/blog/\r\nMy
    weblog using Graublau Sans Web for headlines. "
  created: '2008-04-07 16:31:03'
- author:
    name: howcome
  body: "It's good to see that Safari is shipping with support for WebFonts. Prince
    has done so for a while, and Opera has also published a version with WebFonts:\r\n\r\n
    \  http://www.princexml.com/\r\n   http://labs.opera.com/news/2008/03/28/\r\n\r\nIt's
    important to iron out wrinkles in the early phase and I encourage the people here
    to try it out an repport any problems to the vendors.\r\n\r\nHere are some more
    pages that use WebFonts:\r\n\r\n   http://www.princexml.com/howcome/webfonts/\r\n
    \  http://www.princexml.com/samples/\r\n   http://people.opera.com/howcome/2008/ooxml/iso.html\r\n
    \  http://people.opera.com/howcome/2008/ooxml/iso.pdf\r\n\r\nNot quite in \"the
    wild\" -- I'm a civilized person :-)"
  created: '2008-04-07 16:47:06'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "OH NOES THE INTERNET WILL BE UGLEE!\r\n\r\nThis is so awesome.\r\nI'm totally
    going to have a job forever."
  created: '2008-04-07 17:05:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I\u2019m totally going to have a job forever.\r\n\r\nFixing ugly sites or
    making ugly sites? "
  created: '2008-04-07 17:58:03'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: Pfft I never make anything ugly.
  created: '2008-04-07 18:05:35'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "I did a survey among web designers to find out what they think about the
    future of @font-face embedding. \r\nHere are the results: http://opentype.info/blog/2008/04/19/font-face-survey-results/\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-19 17:50:18'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I'm not sure I agree with your comment about what font vendors would like
    to do. (Hosting the fonts themselves and giving out CSS referencing.) What is
    the basis for this assertion?\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-04-19 21:39:44'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "It's just a theoretical question, based on my ideas how those things could
    work. I didn't want to imply to know what other font vendors would do. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-19 21:59:59'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Interesting discussion about support for @font-face embedding in Mozilla
    browsers:\r\nhttp://groups.google.com/group/mozilla.dev.tech.layout/browse_thread/thread/6015cfe1fd542473/d5e4f48675e8001e\r\n\r\nThe
    \"bug\u201C of having no @font-face support is now assigned:\r\nhttps://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=70132\r\n<cite>This
    feature is under development.</cite>\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2008-05-09 16:37:54'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"(Hosting the fonts themselves and giving out CSS referencing.)\"\r\nYessssss....\r\n\r\n\"What
    is the basis for this assertion?\"\r\nMy guess is open and open-ended thinking.\r\n\r\nNice
    work Ralf. I'd very much like to meet the 4% will pay 'per use.' ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-05-13 12:11:56'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>So the \u2019name\u2019 table seems about the only thing that contains
    non-essential information and might still break the font as far as the OS was
    concerned.</cite>\r\n\r\nSo, did anyone had a chance to try this? Or is there
    software out there to do this?\r\n\r\nI think it's very likely that stripping
    the name table would break the font for the OS but not for the browsers, since
    they treat the fonts just as file resources. "
  created: '2008-08-03 18:17:27'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Unfortunately, stripping out the name table also removes the copyright and
    trademark notices.\r\n\r\nAlso, how would the browser reference the font? Aren't
    most browsers invisibly installing the font? (That also requires the name table....)\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-08-03 23:28:35'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Are we saying that I can save an html page in Safari and download the fonts
    installed in the host's operating system?\r\n\r\nIf so, then the font license
    must either cover or limit the rights of the user who downloads the fonts.\r\n\r\nIf
    the user has limited rights, he or she may not install and use them in other documents,
    without violating his or her limited user rights.\r\n\r\nIt os likely that as
    most font foundries include PDF embeddable rights, they will also include limited
    html user rights.\r\n\r\nBut I doubt if font foundries will unleash complete user
    rights to install downloadable fonts in their operating system and usse ther fonts
    freely in any document. That's the same as granting unlimited worldwide rights
    for anyone for a single sale."
  created: '2008-08-04 01:24:47'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Unfortunately, stripping out the name table also removes the copyright
    and trademark notices.</cite>\r\n\r\nThen maybe not the whole table, but certain
    name fields that might be required by the OS!?\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>Also, how would
    the browser reference the font? Aren\u2019t most browsers invisibly installing
    the font? </cite>\r\n\r\nI don't know, but it guess it doesn't use any information
    from the name table. The fonts are just a file resource like an image or a video.
    The name used within the context of the page is specified by the web designer
    in the CSS declaration. It doesn't have to have a connection to the actual name
    in the name table. "
  created: '2008-08-04 07:29:31'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>So, did anyone had a chance to try this? Or is there software out there
    to do this?</cite>\r\n\r\nI found a way to do it. If anyone is interested in the
    results, send me an email. I don't want to publish it here. "
  created: '2008-08-05 11:08:50'
- author:
    name: spiral
    picture: 110473
  body: 'Ralf, why not publish here? Curious. '
  created: '2008-08-05 11:46:35'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "So what do Typophiles think about this compromise proposal?\r\n(Adding root
    strings to regular TTF/OTF files)\r\nhttp://www.w3.org/Fonts/Misc/minutes-2008-10\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-17 12:51:26'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Ralf, might be better to start a new thread on that one?\r\n\r\nPerhaps give
    a brief explanation on what got us to this point. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2008-11-17 14:24:42'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "on a more uplifting note, now that web-fonts are imminent, yes, a new market
    is opening up - and that market it exciting.\r\n\r\nShould we Typophiles assemble
    a package of the <em>best quality</em> free fonts available for this new use,
    so when people search it or use bad ones, we can link them right back to one resource
    where they can find quality fonts to use?\r\n\r\nI think about Polaroid, they
    did instant photography before digital cameras existed, but they didn't move into
    instant digital photography when that started up, they waited, and they suffered
    for it.\r\n\r\nI think the foundries that will be big and strong in 10 years will
    also be the foundries that have embraced this current technology, and have found
    a way to offer and target products directly at it."
  created: '2008-11-17 15:18:02'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">a new market is opening up \r\n\r\nplease explain your business model\r\n\r\n>Should
    we Typophiles assemble a package of the best quality free fonts \r\n\r\nI think
    this has already been done. Can't find the link though. The list will be quite
    short...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.webfonts.info/wiki/index.php?title=Fonts_available_for_%40font-face_embedding\r\n\r\n>I
    think the foundries that will be big and strong in 10 years will also be the foundries
    that have embraced this current technology\r\n\r\nHistorically that doesn't seem
    to be the case. In terms of the digital revolution the \"big and strong\" foundries
    are those that previously owned the historical typefaces and the all-important
    trademarks and have relatively strong EULAs and a team of lawyers ready to club
    infractions. The successful \"small and strong\" foundries have restrictive EULAs
    and good lawyers. So far the experiments in opening up and open source have met
    with  limited commercial success for those involved.  \r\n"
  created: '2008-11-17 16:38:05'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">>Should we Typophiles assemble a package of the best quality free fonts
    \r\n\r\nOkay here it is...\r\n\r\nhttp://opentype.info/blog/2008/08/05/10-great-free-fonts-for-font-face-embedding/"
  created: '2008-11-17 17:07:04'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...a brief explanation on what got us to this point.\"\r\nWile E. Coyote
    (Carnivorous Vulgaris), <em>was</em> playing with matches and fuses, on a pile
    of ammo and TNT, atop a small mountain of gas cans in a seemingly tiny boat on
    a mercilessly swift river about to go off a huge waterfall, whilst strapped to
    a giant arrow supposedly pointed at the spot on a bridge just down river where
    Road Runner (Accelleratii Incredibus), is about to pass?\r\n\r\nCheers :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-17 22:21:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I got a big bang out of that one, David :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-18 16:13:53'
date: '2008-03-18 17:32:03'
node_type: forum
title: Safari release version supporting downloadable web fonts...

---
