---
author:
  name: Ch
  picture: 112205
body: "i'd like to tie together a few threads i've been contributing my 2 cents to
  recently.\r\n\r\ni began a thread about \"the future of licensing\" = \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/42540\r\nand
  have read with much interest several other threads about licensing, originality,\r\nand
  credit where credit is due, most recently  \"a cheater\" = \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/43240\r\n\r\nin
  various threads i've described my own evolution from reckless young upstart to respectful
  professional. not having formally studied design, my knowledge of fonts and the
  work of font designers has evolved slowly with exposure to fonts and design writing,
  with a lot of time reading and following links on typophile.\r\n\r\nwhen i was young
  and reckless i did what so many students do : i grabbed whatever i could. as i matured
  and began to better understand the complexities of font work, my attitude changed.
  as i graduated to high-end professional contracts i adopted a policy of legality,
  despite my frustrations with what i still consider to be illogical and overly restrictive
  EULA's.\r\n\r\nwhat changed for me ? AWARENESS. i think fonts are traded so easily
  among friends partly because they remain, in many people's minds, fairly anonymous.
  this may be hard for some of you to believe, but it's true. you are unsung heroes.\r\n\r\nthis
  is an open call to typophile for suggestions on how we can raise awareness in the
  public, among small and amateur designers, crafters, magazine readers, etc. as to
  the real work and time that the font designer spends at their craft.\r\n\r\ni really
  appreciate the bio's and histories of designers on myfonts.com.\r\n\r\nthe FDRC
  could promote a public campaign along the lines of :\r\n\"it took me two years to
  design this font. it took you two seconds to download it\".\r\n\r\nmaybe i'm naive
  but, despite my call for EULA reform, i'm on your side."
comments:
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I would like to US law changed to reflect more uniformity with international
    law. I don\u2019t know what group has the determination to get it done, but in
    my mind this is a next big step."
  created: '2008-03-18 19:37:25'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "- Teachers need to accept that they have some responsibility in the solution.\r\n-
    We all need to admit that the majority of designers can't possibly be completely
    naive. \r\n- Typophile needs to remain a friendly online forum where people can
    read and learn. Threads such as \"a cheater\", in some ways, has us looking like
    a pack of wolves\u2014I'm guilty here too\u2014ready to devour without hearing
    all the facts. (Even if the facts we do have are damning.)\r\n "
  created: '2008-03-18 19:42:10'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>We all need to admit that the majority of designers can\u2019t possibly
    be completely naive.</cite>\r\n\r\nI agree totally, but bet the majority of them
    don't read EULAs to the letter either. I sure didn't until I started coming here.
    Just clicked \"agree\" and figured as long as I didn't share or resell the fonts
    I was in compliance. I was pretty shocked to learn that in sending a pdf to a
    client for approval I was violating the terms of some of them. Still think that's
    absurd BTW."
  created: '2008-03-18 19:49:34'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: "\u201Cit took me two years to design this font. it took you two seconds to
    download it\u201D.\r\n\r\nYou are making the mistake of linking value to time.
    I'm sure it would not be difficult to find examples of life-long works that are
    rubbish, or brilliant types that were executed very quickly.\r\n\r\nIf the message
    is \"don't download type because it's stealing from poor, meagre type designers
    who dedicate their lives to a thankless art\", it becomes pretty easy to come
    up with counter examples of people who have made millions from (comparatively)
    little effort, or corporations who are still selling the work of dead designers
    for more than the prospective \"pirate\" will likely ever make. (This reminds
    me of the MPAA ads that showed pathetic looking stage hands and their waifish
    children.)\r\n\r\nI think the better tack is to release new stuff frequently and
    provide a positive purchase experience that adds value at a reasonable price.
    People will buy fonts when they need them rather than nursing a decrepit old collection
    of thousands of gross fonts gained through perilous ventures into the underbelly
    of the internet, braving viruses, and gross pictures for fonts that don't work
    that well anyway. Adding value through new type technologies is a good tack as
    well. Who wants all the gross old fonts they collected in the 90's when you could
    buy shiny new \"Pro\" fonts.\r\n\r\nAnother viable business model for the digital
    age is custom or exclusive types. The cost of producing a typeface has fallen
    such that custom types are much more achievable for publications and corporations
    that previously couldn't afford them."
  created: '2008-03-18 20:11:06'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: There is intellectual property in the interpretation of letter shapes. It
    is more than software. US law puts every type designer in a bad position. Since
    when has the US been against creating an economic incentive for an industry? Wouldn't
    international protection help the university system in the US? Why have a type
    design program if the work can be legally pirated? I know there is precedent to
    overcome, but I can't help but believe a change in law would help increase awareness
    at the university and corporate level.
  created: '2008-03-18 20:23:12'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I\u2019ll just get on my usual soapbox:\r\n\r\n\u2022Teach type design: I
    know the money sucks, even for a designer, and design students can be extremely
    irritating. But the best way to teach type appreciation to designs is to teach
    them to design type, so that they realize that there are some very dedicated people
    behind every good font out there.\r\n\r\n\u2022Come up with better pricing for
    student use. I may be wrong, but I think that only Adobe and Bitstream offer font
    packages for students. And even at the 10 \u2013\_50% discounts some foundries
    offer it isn\u2019t easy to justify purchasing a single font that will only be
    used for one project. But it\u2019s quite easy to pirate the fonts."
  created: '2008-03-18 20:36:27'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: ">>provide a positive purchase experience that adds value at a reasonable
    price.<< \r\n\r\ni couldn't agree more. i am the proverbial \"little guy\". i
    want to buy your fonts !\r\ni also feel, as others have suggested, that some EULAs
    virtually invite violation. \r\ni avoid those fonts. maybe some designers prefer
    it that way... exclusivity has some value. howls of protest.\r\n\r\nmy suggestion
    for an awareness campaign (\"it took me two years..\") was just a hasty example.
    i agree with your reservations there. it's not simply about time.\r\n\r\nkeep
    'em coming ! we are learning."
  created: '2008-03-18 20:41:23'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'To say "some EULAs virtually invite violation" is a pretty strong statement.
    While I do understand what you are saying and can''t say I completely disagree,
    I have to add that if a EULA is disagreeable simply don''t license from that particular
    foundry. Violating their EULA invites (tempts) legal action as well as karma. '
  created: '2008-03-18 22:13:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Might a suggest the odd peerage, e.g. \"Lord Carter of Fonthaven\"?\r\nAnd
    a knighthood for Neville, which would really piss him off :-)"
  created: '2008-03-18 22:29:35'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Voluntary type credits on designed works? Much like photo credits. A sort
    of public awareness campaign.\r\n\r\nI agree that design education should include
    type design and lettering as basic requirements. This was the norm in the first
    half of the 20th century. \r\n\r\nI think there is still a lack of awareness among
    font makers (notice I didn't say type designers) of what the ethical boundaries
    are, and how type should be valued. \r\n\r\nThe US copyright policy is a big,
    big obstacle here."
  created: '2008-03-18 22:48:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Maybe leak a story that The Sopranos family enforcers (tired of retirement
    from TV) are now working the type industry and collecting on EULA infractions
    :-) \r\nLends a new meaning to the term Font Collection :-P\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-18 23:11:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Voluntary type credits on designed works?</em>\r\n\r\nThe Association
    of Type Designers could lobby awards organizations to include a type credit line.\r\n\r\nOh,
    right, we don't have such an organization.\r\n\r\nSo perhaps we should start one,
    because industry bodies such as ATypI and SOTA don't adequately represent the
    interests of type designers, as they are largely funded by corporations not owned
    by type designers, which benefit from keeping type designers in their place. (There's
    nothing malicious in this, it's just the nature of power and self-interest.)"
  created: '2008-03-18 23:57:44'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "A few lines of code embedded in the font file that could detect the absence
    of a valid EULA and re-set text in an illegally used font to a page directing
    miscreants to the appropriate distributor from whom they could purchase a license
    or license upgrade. (I'm thinking this idea could either work with CSS embedded
    fonts on web pages... or show-off my ignorance in such matters. :-) \r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-03-19 00:20:37'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "<em>Voluntary type credits on designed works?</em>\r\nColophons have been
    used in books for centuries.\r\n\r\n<em>Oh, right, we don\u2019t have such an
    organization.\r\nSo perhaps we should start one, </em>\r\nlooks like someone did\r\nhttp://fdrc.org/\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-19 00:41:32'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>looks like someone did\r\nhttp://fdrc.org/</cite>\r\n\r\nGreat. I don't
    know where they are at, but getting a congress person involved might be a good
    goal. "
  created: '2008-03-19 01:44:45'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: I for one am glad that U.S. copyright law doesn't cover type designs. Sure
    there are always a couple of bad apples that copy stuff, but in my mind the overly
    litigious are just as bad. I'm glad that I don't have to be looking over my shoulder
    worrying that someone might think my letter 'a' looks too much like their letter
    'a'. If you look hard enough, it all looks like something else.
  created: '2008-03-19 02:02:27'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FDRC_3542.gif]\r\n\r\nthe FDRC site,
    the 'logo', this whole approach needs some fresh blood and fresh approaches.\r\nIt
    looks like a site from 1999 ... there's nothing aimed at the next generation of
    designers, who enter adulthood knowing that most of their peers download stuff
    for free."
  created: '2008-03-19 02:19:00'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "<body>\r\n<p><em>&quot;As I am not aware of the conventions and ethics and
    the intricacies \r\n  and mechanisms by which the governing bodies atract and
    repel each other caused by the EULAs and it's interpretations.... And further
    thinking if I should or   could intervine in or not, I realized that is best leave
    to the Gods in his  or hers magnanimous wisdom.&quot;<br>\r\n  <br>\r\n  </em>Just
    used to feel bad when dreaming of<em> revivre </em>&quot;Cloister&quot; \r\n  ;_)
    </p>\r\n</body>\r\n</html>"
  created: '2008-03-19 02:57:44'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>I for one am glad that U.S. copyright law doesn\u2019t cover type designs.</cite>\r\n\r\nSo
    many times a client makes a demand to give them a copy of fonts, or send them
    to a web designer, or whatever. If you say it is illegal, and then they talk with
    another design shop that doesn't care you look really bad\u2014like you are trying
    to rip them off. I've lost clients and jobs over this issue. Your statement is
    amazing and strange to me.\r\n\r\n<cite>It looks like a site from 1999 ... there\u2019s
    nothing aimed at the next generation of designers, who enter adulthood knowing
    that most of their peers download stuff for free.</cite>\r\n\r\nAre these ideas
    linked? Who cares what their site looks like. I would be somewhat concerned about
    setting a client up with an identity based on a pirated font. It would seem you
    could be liable for damages maybe? If it ever became an issue? It is a small world."
  created: '2008-03-19 03:16:30'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: "> Who cares what their site looks like?\r\n\r\nsrsly?\r\n\r\nnot even sure
    how to respond to that. checking to see that this is indeed typophile.com.\r\n\r\nTypophiles
    obsess over the font on the menu at brunch, so an organization that is *representing*
    font designers, er type designers, ought to at least have the wherewithal to present
    a polished logo and website. \r\n\r\nyou would think. \r\n\r\nnot a hard-to-decipher,
    pixellated scan out of a type specimen book. :/\r\n\r\nas far as up-and-coming
    designers, there's an increasing sentiment that downloading 'free' stuff is okay,
    and you can't educate them if you can't grab their attention and it least hold
    it for a minute.\r\n\r\nyou don't see a need for a fresh approach? ... nah, let's
    make sure to post an FBI warning on our front page, *that's* effective. :D\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-19 03:59:38'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "<body>\r\n[crossgrove] <em>&quot;Voluntary type credits on designed works?
    Much like photo credits. A sort of public awareness campaign.&quot;</em><br>\r\nEverywhere
    you look there is a reference to the author (movies, architeture, literature,
    and so on and on)...<br>\r\n<em>fdrc.org</em> has theirs already, so...<br>\r\nWhy
    not do the same? There may be a way.... \r\n</body>\r\n</html>"
  created: '2008-03-19 10:19:39'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Something like a web page can be so easily fixed. And I don\u2019t feel like
    an updated look is going to motivate people to get together and push forward on
    something that is political like this.\r\n\r\nIn my experience, a well executed
    and written campaign via the web-based design community along with some political
    connection would be a start. The fact that someone has started to organize and
    doesn't have an updated image together is almost predictable. A few good letters
    and a consolidation of the ideas into economic benefits that can be easily grasped
    could go a long way toward making an impact. Trying to change a law and trying
    to sell membership in an organization are two different things."
  created: '2008-03-19 11:30:55'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...this whole [FDRC] approach needs some fresh blood and fresh approaches.\"\r\nWHAT!?
    You mean, you think the secret handshake in the circle of muttered Latin, beneath
    the Eye of Ra, is somehow less than utterly fresh? C'mon!\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-19 12:02:56'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "<body>\r\n<p><em>[jupiterboy]: &quot;Something like a web page can be so
    easily fixed. And  I don&#8217;t feel like an updated look is going to motivate
    people to get together   and push forward on something that is political like
    this.&quot;<br>\r\n  In my experience, a well executed and written campaign via
    the web-based design community along with some political connection would be a
    start. The fact that  someone has started to organize and doesn&#8217;t have an
    updated image together  is almost predictable. A few good letters and a consolidation
    of the ideas into economic benefits that can be easily grasped could go a long
    way toward making   an impact. Trying to change a law and trying to sell membership
    in an organization  are two different things.&quot;</em><br>\r\n  <br>\r\n  None
    of you know me; nobody does. In the past few days, when participating on  the
    &quot;Delicious&quot; debate I throw in some comments and kind of exercise  an
    &quot;inquisitive&quot; point of view. I didn't mean to be mean, but placing \r\n
    \ the points on the Ies (i's) and browsing on previous discussions about this
    \ subject, I realized that what the Small Type Founders need is simply<br>\r\n
    \ <br>\r\n  ORGANIZATION<br>\r\n  <br>\r\n  The only way, the way, I don't dare
    to advice. I guess it wouldn't be too complicated  to form some sort of provisional
    committee of the concerned parties, get together (on line) and start to draw what
    it would be. Of course there may be differences \r\n  among those who draw type,
    and all sorts of 'interferences' and difficulties,  but it CAN be done.<br>\r\n
    \ <br>\r\n  I am sure that amongst those that express their opinions here in Tipophile,
    are respected people who have a great sense of this industry and are known worlwide
    and could or would be available to actually START this thing, this foundation,
    \r\n  organization... whatever you want to call it.<br>\r\n  <br>\r\n  The purpose
    of such entity is the eduction of students and font users, the public.  Anybody
    who does not know at all what it is to seat in front a computer and squish their
    brain to achieve something new and of course, try to make a living out of it.<br>\r\n
    \ <br>\r\n  The European Union has a system in which the government is rotative:
    Each country  'govern', deliberates or promote policy for a limited time. It seems
    to me a good idea try to promote something like this, instead of having a 'unremovable'
    \r\n  board. A rotating chairman position can be a good way to achieve things.
    Look: if there was a org like this, people from this craft could start making
    BIG  questions to the presidential candidates (I wish I did not know how that
    goes...)<br>\r\n  <br>\r\n  Tipophile can be a launch platform to promote a dialogue
    and START this thing,  having in mind that what is in question is education, with
    NO fbi warnings or scaring language &gt; Love talks! and people understands it.<br>\r\n
    \ <br>\r\n  p.s.: I am a mere spectator here and I do NOT want just promote myself
    or misguide the typographic community, but, if YOU (you is plural and singular....)
    get to move onto something like this: The soonest the better!<br>\r\n  <br>\r\n
    \ (stupid question OFF the subject: After 'extending' my sympathy to Tipophile,
    should I wait somebody place the insignia in my icon, or should I do it myself?)</p>\r\n</body>\r\n</html>"
  created: '2008-03-19 12:37:23'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> the FDRC site, the \u2019logo\u2019, this whole approach needs some fresh
    blood and fresh approaches.\r\n\r\n\r\nIsn't it clear? They selected the font
    from the ones their members provide, based on the largest number of control points."
  created: '2008-03-19 13:11:04'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: ">>if a EULA is disagreeable simply don\u2019t license from that particular
    foundry. <<\r\n\r\nbefore your reply, miss tiffany, i had already written : \"i
    avoid those fonts\".\r\n\r\nand yet you imply that you agree with me that some
    EULAs are either unreasonable or prohibitively inconvenient to follow completely
    \"to the letter\". that's a big part of the problem. why would a foundry want
    to discourage me from buying ? that's just bad business. \r\n\r\ni can only reiterate
    my quotation from christian robertson :\r\n\r\n>>provide a positive purchase experience
    that adds value at a reasonable price.<<\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-19 14:56:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Lawyers have a different take on EULAs than either honest purchasers or type
    marketing people. Lawyers are looking for ways to lock out the crooks, not make
    the EULA friendlier to the honest purchaser. Getting both the crooks controlled
    and the keeping  honest folks happy is really a tough job. If you think about
    things like identity fraud and SPAM, you can see how trying to control the criminals
    makes it very inconvenient for honest folks to go about their business.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-19 15:49:01'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "No matter how badly one may want to put the \"face\" in typeface, I just
    think some people don't care enough to pay for their fonts. People download movies,
    music, software, etc. Aside from designers (sometimes), most people don't even
    know that fonts aren't always free, let alone that it actually takes time to design
    them (i had a friend that thought fonts were just force-vomitted automatically
    by a simple computer program). I think the fundamental problem is that exactly.
    Maybe if font software was somehow managed like iTunes mp4 format, (no, not the
    99 cents part) where you can't copy music (the iDump software notwithstanding),
    but you can only authorize it on the computers you use. I'm not an expert on font
    files, but i imagine it's a long time before this kind of security could be embedded.
    Any store without security will be stolen from, that's what makes digital files
    so dangerous.\r\n\r\nAs for monitoring rip-off fonts, that would be decidedly
    harder, until some optical-recognition program could create a master database
    of any little font that has ever appeared. You're always going to have people
    who forge art for their own gain, businessmen who steal their underling's work.
    Some people don't care about intellectual property at all, as long as they dont
    get caught and they make money doing it.\r\n\r\nLong and short,the only way to
    stop it is to make it impossible to steal in the first place.\r\n\r\nObviously
    typophiles are a different breed, but that's my take."
  created: '2008-03-19 15:52:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Two comments. On Colophons. Most books don't have them, and no magazines
    or newspapers have them. I think a 'font awareness' campaign would be great, and
    having more Colophons would be a perhaps not insane goal. Would ATypI do this?
    SOTA? \r\n\r\nChris's reference to the 'Sopranos' as enforcers reminds me of an
    essay by a literary agent I once read. He said that it was sometimes had difficulty
    getting publishers to pay royalties promptly to his clients (and him).  But he
    had one client who never had a problem of withheld royalties. The client was known
    as \"Joey the Hit Man\", and he had written a memoir about his life as an enforcer
    for the mob. He told the publisher that if he was ever late in a payment, he would
    \"Marry you to a plate glass window.\" Somehow he never had any problem with getting
    paid.  "
  created: '2008-03-19 16:21:01'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "it will never be impossible to steal anything or hack DRMs. \r\n\r\ni think
    the point has been well made that embedded DRMs are a terrible idea, not least
    because they essentially punish the honest. \r\n\r\nin my opinion, and i venture
    to say that of many others on this list, the traditional EULA which links fonts
    to specific computers is also a terrible idea, completely impractical especially
    for small businesses, and one of the aspects of EULAs that invites violation even
    if the user is scrupulous about other restrictions such as forwarding, embedding,
    \ or otherwise distributing the font.\r\n\r\nbut the point of this thread is to
    ask if there is a way we can make it less desirable/unconscious to abuse fonts,
    font designers, and the font industry in general, by cultivating awareness, respect,
    understanding, and appreciation.\r\n\r\nfurther punitive measures never succeed
    in that direction."
  created: '2008-03-19 16:49:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>if there is a way we can make it less desirable/unconscious to abuse
    fonts, font designers, and the font industry in general</em>\r\n\r\nWe could cut
    back drastically on bundling. \r\n\r\nThere will never be widespread respect and
    appreciation for fonts as long as massive bundling continues.\r\n\r\nPeople think
    fonts aren't worth anything because they get a large number free when they buy
    a computer or licence a major graphics or word processing application.\r\n\r\nAs
    a means of addressing piracy, those who lead the font industry might consider
    the influence that the corporate behaviour of Adobe, Apple, and Microsoft has
    on public attitudes and behaviour.\r\n\r\nConsider a typical graphic designer
    set-up: a Mac, CS, and Office.\r\n\r\nTo licence the Mac bundled fonts, from Myfonts,
    would cost around $2,000--more than the cost of the computer.\r\nTo licence the
    CS fonts, from Adobe, around $1,300--75% the cost of CS.\r\n\r\nIf these companies
    were \"type foundries and other individuals whose livelihood depends upon the
    proper licensing of our work\" (FRDC mission statement), and made their income
    from fonts, they would not be quite so generous in their \"subsidy\" of graphic
    designers.\r\n\r\nDesigners are given all the fonts necessary, and more, to run
    their business, so they don't have to spend any money licensing them, and can
    instead direct it all to the purchase of their computer and major applications.
    \r\n\r\nBundling is responsible for the fundamental reality, the awareness that
    exists amongst the majority of those involved in the design industry, and our
    clients: \"Fonts are not a business expense.\"\r\n\r\nGetting tough with piracy
    is not without merit, but it is damage control.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-19 23:49:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Nick, I think you are right that font bundling makes the font business more
    difficult for independents and foundries that don''t publish other software as
    their main business. But I just don''t see how it is unethical on their part.
    They are enhancing their products, and they don''t have a monopoly on fonts. '
  created: '2008-03-20 00:46:58'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: '@William: Amen. '
  created: '2008-03-20 01:08:13'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: '@Nick: The people licensing the software are not getting the fonts for free.
    They are part of the package which they are licensing. For the love of cold pizza
    why do you go there so often? Internally, yes, the companies have these fonts
    that they can bundle with the software to make it even more attractive. But when
    someone is licensing the software they must see the fonts as part of what they
    are paying for!'
  created: '2008-03-20 01:09:56'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "They also bundle software and give price breaks when multiple applications
    are purchased. The practice\u2014buy one get one free\u2014is pretty well established.
    Having multiple products to sell gives a competitive advantage.\r\n\r\nOn the
    other hand, setting an exhibition catalog in Adobe Garamond may not make a designer
    more competitive. Adobe does not enhance the value of their fonts by making them
    common."
  created: '2008-03-20 01:22:42'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: As long as Comic Sans and Curlz comein bundled software, maybe some designers
    think that Helvetica and Garamond are of the "same" monetary value (and thus of
    the same calibur). Perhaps because of this, they don't see the $500 price tag
    on an H&FJ family as fair. I'm not really taking an opinion on bundled software,
    rather, it's more of an observation. I don't know what I would have done without
    some of the ones on my mac, but maybe this should be part of font awareness (can
    we have a font awareness month? I'd totally mark it on my calendar).
  created: '2008-03-20 01:30:18'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "On the other hand, a designer could do a lot worse than setting an exhibition
    catalog in Adobe Garamond. It's an elegant, if safe font and has the Open Type
    features needed for captions and such. Combined with a headline font that has
    a little more panache it works quite nicely. Most exhibition catalogs are too
    safe looking for my taste but needing to please multiple institutions (and a publisher)
    often leads you down that road.\r\n\r\nOff topic, sorry!\r\n\r\nI will add that
    coming to this forum has greatly raised my awareness of and appreciation for font
    designers. Kudos to you all."
  created: '2008-03-20 01:30:41'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "\r\nDesigners\u2014those designers worth their salt*\u2014take the time to
    think about the typefaces they use. If those designers are frequenting the different
    font vendor sites, subscribing to various newsletters, reading certain blogs,
    then they learn about the typefaces available. Maybe we here are the few (although
    I doubt it), but the fonts on the various sites are getting licensed or why are
    all the foundries still in business? \r\n\r\nBundling might give some designers
    some nice basics to use. Yes, I use them when I need to. But the basics are just
    supplemental. I really depend upon a nice variety to get my work done. I think
    most of us do. Perhaps foundries need to run ads in business magazines, or blogs,
    or newsletters, to start getting their stuff seen more? \r\n\r\n*Aesthetic Apparatus,
    being one of a few who do not need a lot of variety, have done great work, IMO,
    with just one typeface family."
  created: '2008-03-20 01:45:21'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: to add to miss tiffany's asterisk, experimental jetset, who would be out about
    $60 if helvetica neue roman and bold weren't preloaded on their computers...
  created: '2008-03-20 01:53:40'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: '@Chipman: And so we see that they aren''t exactly robbing the foundries of
    the world by not licensing fonts. :^P'
  created: '2008-03-20 01:58:55'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Instead of disparaging over the fact that fonts are bundled. Perhaps (one
    thing) we can all (do is) make a point of contributing to online forums when we
    see an opportunity to raise awareness of the value of typefaces and font software.
    There is really little which can be done about the bundling, but we can educate.
  created: '2008-03-20 02:01:11'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>On the other hand, a designer could do a lot worse than setting an
    exhibition catalog in Adobe Garamond.</cite>\r\n\r\nI picked it to make a point,
    but you are absolutely right. Oatmeal makes a wonderful breakfast as well\u2014probably
    my favorite, but it has a sort of, I dunno, utilitarian aspect. I would hope a
    font would be used because it was appropriate rather than because it was available.
    (This is coming from a designer that often relegates less sophisticated clients
    that demonstrate a disrespect for copyright issues to bundled fonts)\r\n\r\n<cite>Instead
    of disparaging over the fact that fonts are bundled. Perhaps (one thing) we can
    all (do is) make a point of contributing to online forums when we see an opportunity
    to raise awareness of the value of typefaces and font software.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    wonder if there is a reluctance to make negative comments about fonts on a forum,
    as the creator might take offense. We all have our preferences, and I know I have
    hesitated, partly because type designers have been so generous in lending sample
    copies of their fonts for comping. I guess that is where customization comes into
    play."
  created: '2008-03-20 02:33:22'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: For reformed fontaholics, bundled fonts serve a valuable purpose. When you
    know you can acquire any font you want just for the asking (including most proprietary
    fonts), my URW collection of bundled fonts are like methadone.
  created: '2008-03-20 03:56:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>But I just don\u2019t see how it is unethical on their part.</em>\r\n\r\nEthicality
    may be an issue, but not in this thread.\r\nThe question was, how to raise awareness
    of the value of fonts, and I suggested that an answer may be to cut back drastically
    on font bundling.\r\n\r\n<em>The people licensing the software are not getting
    the fonts for free...when someone is licensing the software they must see the
    fonts as part of what they are paying for!</em> \r\n\r\nIf that is the case, why
    is so little marketing space given by Apple and Adobe to proclaiming the value
    of the fonts that come bundled with their big-ticket products? Isn't this indicative
    of their true value?\r\n\r\n<em>For the love of cold pizza why do you go there
    so often? </em>\r\n\r\nI don't, it just seems that way to you. \r\n\r\nBetween
    them, Apple and Adobe give thousands of dollars worth of top quality fonts free
    to the majority of professional graphic designers, illustrators, and photographers,
    fonts to cover every type situation most of them are likely to encounter, adding
    to and updating the collection with every upgrade.\r\n\r\nSo, making it unecessary
    for people to have to spend money on fonts isn't the major reason for their low
    perceived value? \r\nThat's hard to believe.\r\n\r\n<em>There is really little
    which can be done about the bundling.</em>\r\n\r\nAn awareness campaign might
    help.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-20 07:06:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>but the fonts on the various sites are getting licensed or why are all
    the foundries still in business?</em>\r\n\r\nThere is a market for fonts, despite
    the impediments; but the general issue, which there seems to be agreement about,
    is that they are undervalued, and this encourages sharing.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-20 08:02:31'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: ">cite>So, making it unecessary for people to have to spend money on fonts
    isn\u2019t the major reason for their low perceived value?</cite>\r\n\r\nOr you
    could look at it differently - by bundling some basic workhorse fonts with your
    software, Adobe frees up your budget to buy some more interesting fonts from smaller
    foundries."
  created: '2008-03-20 13:24:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">An awareness campaign might help.\r\n\r\nNick, you are on the board of SOTA,
    as I remember. Do you think that SOTA could have a campaign to encourage printing
    more colophons, not only in books but also in magazines, as I suggested above?
    Or is this too marginal? "
  created: '2008-03-20 13:50:25'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: I'm a little conflicted. I think nick makes a good point, and perhaps not
    only does it sort of contribute to ubiquity of some good typefaces (e.g. Times),
    but perhaps it sort of masks the creator behind it. On the other hand however,
    i fail to see how upstart firms or freelancers could possibly afford between $500-$1000
    for individual fonts, let alone building a repertoire. The only solution that
    I could see is if somehow they were less expensive across the board. Maybe that
    would help alleviate piracy, and thus bring in more paying customers? Perhaps
    this is not my place to say, since I personally don't have any typefaces for sale,
    while many of you do. I'd prefer not suggest my own price tag on another person's
    work.
  created: '2008-03-20 13:52:09'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "@Nick: Maybe it\u2019s just a canadian thing, but outside of the book world
    and people knocking off Apple\u2019s ad campaigns, I don\u2019t see much use of
    bundled fonts in good design. There might be a lot of hacks out there using Rosewood,
    Papyrus, and Helvetica for every other job, but they probably wouldn\u2019t buy
    good fonts even if they didn\u2019t get the bundled stuff. Regarding your statement
    that fonts are undervalued, I agree, but I don\u2019t think that it\u2019s because
    of bundling. I blame that more on the esoteric nature of type design, something
    almost nobody knows anything about. \r\n\r\nLast Saturday I was at a dinner party
    and one of the hosts started talking about the Helvetica movie. He really got
    into it, and had no clue about type design before seeing it. Getting that kind
    of educational experience to more designers would do a lot for type appreciation.
    \r\n\r\nPersonally, I would have very few legit fonts if I hadn\u2019t picked
    up an old copy of Corel Draw on eBay for $50. It\u2019s going to be a while before
    I can scrounge up the cost of a big type library, so bundled fonts will be getting
    me by for a while."
  created: '2008-03-20 15:21:08'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: "Nick, I think your comments about bundled fonts show a very closed view of
    where type appreciation stems from. Your proposed drastic changes really only
    affect professional designers who can justify spending large amounts of money
    on typeface families. If we're looking for widespread type appreciation, then
    including only Helvetica and Times (or Gotham and Garamond, if you prefer) with
    every machine would kill off any and all type appreciation that exists in this
    world. Design would be an exclusive club of privileged elite who can afford to
    purchase more than two typefaces per year.\r\n\r\nDo you know what creates appreciation
    for good type more than anything else? Bad type. I started reading about type
    design because of the website bancomicsans.com. I knew practically nothing about
    type, but I knew that I hated Comic Sans. I would start to notice flyers around
    campus set in Comic Sans, then I would start to notice flyers set in Arial Black,
    then (god forbid) Curlz. I began to recognize certain typefaces that I liked,
    and I started reading typography blogs and books and such.\r\n\r\nMy point is,
    cutting bundling down to a serif, a sans, and a monospace would only serve to
    alienate people like me who are interested in typography as a hobby but can't
    afford to invest our lives and savings into it.\r\n\r\nThe real question is, how
    do we define an appreciation for type? I don't want to set up a straw man, but
    Nick, it sounds like you're implying that an appreciation for type involves people
    only using really, really quality typefaces because they don't have mediocre ones
    readily accessible. But only people who already have an appreciation for type
    would go to the extra effort and expenditures to carefully choose which faces
    are in their libraries.\r\n\r\nTo me, type appreciation is not about every professionally
    designed item being set in really quality typefaces. Type appreciation is about
    my being able to point out to my friends how ridiculous it is to set a flyer advertising
    a class on Gender and Islam in Cooper Black without getting a raised eyebrow,
    or to point out bad kerning without being ridiculed.\r\n\r\nArguments like yours,
    Nick, only serve to put off those of us who are mildly interested in type as a
    hobby because they create a sense of elitism. At the end of the day, font awareness
    is not about designers owning certain fonts that are considered good by a group
    of elites such as this one; it's about ordinary people recognizing good design."
  created: '2008-03-20 19:12:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Or you could look at it differently - by bundling some basic workhorse
    fonts with your software, Adobe frees up your budget to buy some more interesting
    fonts from smaller foundries.</em>\r\n\r\nFirstly, shouldn't type designers have
    a right to make, and be paid for, workhorse fonts?\r\nSecondly, the idea that
    giving people free product frees up their budget to buy more of the same defies
    economic logic. \r\n\r\n<em>Nick, you are on the board of SOTA, as I remember.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    left 18 months ago, after 4 years. I also quit teaching at the same time, to concentrate
    more on making fonts.\r\n\r\n<em>Do you think that SOTA could have a campaign
    to encourage printing more colophons, not only in books but also in magazines,
    as I suggested above?</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think that SOTA is a campaigning organization.
    SOTA exists primarily for TypeCon. A type-awareness lecture or workshop at TypeCon
    would be redundant. \r\n\r\n<em>On the other hand however, i fail to see how upstart
    firms or freelancers could possibly afford between $500-$1000 for individual fonts,
    let alone building a repertoire. </em>\r\n\r\nJust suppose new professionals had
    no bundled fonts. A good way to build up a toolbox might then be to acquire fonts
    on a per-project basis.\r\n\r\n<em>they probably wouldn\u2019t buy good fonts
    even if they didn\u2019t get the bundled stuff.</em>\r\n\r\nWho's talking about
    \"good design\"? But really, pick up any general interest magazine and check off
    the faces used in the ads against those bundled with OS X and CS.\r\n\r\n<em>Arguments
    like yours, Nick, only serve to put off those of us who are mildly interested
    in type as a hobby because they create a sense of elitism. At the end of the day,
    font awareness is not about designers owning certain fonts that are considered
    good by a group of elites such as this one; it\u2019s about ordinary people recognizing
    good design.</em>\r\n\r\nAren't you confusing professionalism with elitism?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-20 21:56:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Regarding your statement that fonts are undervalued, I agree, </em>\r\n\r\nUndervalued,
    but perhaps not underpriced.\r\n\r\n<em>cutting bundling down to a serif, a sans,
    and a monospace would only serve to alienate people like me who are interested
    in typography as a hobby but can\u2019t afford to invest our lives and savings
    into it.</em>\r\n\r\n@DrDoc -Bundling causes elitism, because while it provides
    a lot of quality fonts free, it channels the paying market into a low-volume/high
    price market-sector. If the hundreds of millions of people who use computers were
    not supplied with more than enough free fonts, a significant number of them would
    licences fonts, creating a mass market, which would drive down prices. \r\n\r\nI'd
    like to see all \"good\" fonts sell for $9. I'm planning to develop that market,
    as a matter of fact.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-21 13:31:21'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>I\u2019d like to see all \u201Cgood\u201D fonts sell for $9. I\u2019m
    planning to develop that market, as a matter of fact.</cite>\r\n\r\nAmen to that.
    If your main interest is in seeing your fonts in use, that's a great way to go.
    I'm willing to pay as much as $40 or $50 for a single display font, but if I'm
    looking for a comprehensive family I am rarely willing to spend more than $20/weight.
    Fortunately there are plenty of foundries that have very high quality font packages
    in that price range. "
  created: '2008-03-21 15:10:58'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "Yeah I agree with the sentiments expressed on prices. It may seem like \"under-valuing
    our craft\" or whatever - but I know very few designers willing or able to pay
    $400 for a typeface family.\r\n\r\nHaving lower prices make typefaces accessible
    to a wider range of people. I feel having reasonable prices and reasonable eula's
    is a way for type designers to build up positive relationships with designers.\r\n\r\nYou
    can try as hard as you want and have your fonts equipped with DRM's and restrictive
    programming, but I promise someone on the internet will make it their personal
    mission to strip them off and share your work for free :) It's probably a better
    idea to start seeing pirates as potential customers and not the enemy."
  created: '2008-03-21 19:10:24'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "<em> It\u2019s probably a better idea to start seeing pirates as potential
    customers and not the enemy.</em>\r\n\r\nIf you define a few of the words in this
    statement, it may be hard to reconcile the logic. Pirates by definition do not
    buy. By taking and giving away your work, they are harming your business (no,
    not 1:1, but even 1% of pirated goods as lost sales adds up to a lot)\r\nusing
    extremes of pricing as examples of justification doesn't float either, even scrap
    booker fonts get pirated en-masse. Even bundled font get pirated. I would be interested
    in knowing how the self confessed software buccaneers can be swayed to become
    actual customers? "
  created: '2008-03-21 19:46:40'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: I would think, or rather, i have noticed in my experience, that while I was
    in school, almost nobody had fonts that they themselves had purchased. It's mostly
    stealing from their school's bundled fonts and other sources. Then when they go
    on to do freelance, I know a great deal have never gotten rid of them. I think
    it's one thing to copy fonts to your laptop/home PC for school projects, but another
    matter entirely to use them after school, especially for profit. Maybe the type
    industry needs a Joe Camel, so to speak...
  created: '2008-03-21 19:53:56'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<strong>Whatever</strong> system is instigated for anything, there will some
    who will abuse the system. Usually ruining it for everyone. They feel the world
    owes them, for one reason or another.\r\n\r\nThis is why I feel no system of government
    will ever work for any length of time. As soon as someone can spot the loopholes,
    it's \"Obviously, I am the center of the universe, and have never been given my
    just due. So, I am entitled. So screw all of you!\"\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-21 21:42:19'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: Let's brainstorm guys! Is there any way we can just kill designers who download
    fonts?
  created: '2008-03-21 21:48:17'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>It\u2019s probably a better idea to start seeing pirates as potential
    customers and not the enemy.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s probably better to co-opt
    them. When Trent Reznor released his recent Nine Inch Nails album, <em>Ghosts</em>,
    he put the first nine tracks on <popular Swedish torrent site the mods don\u2019t
    want mentioned> so that he didn\u2019t have to foot the cost of people downloading
    it for free. It saved him a lot of money, and when his official download servers
    got overwhelmed, people ended up downloading the full version from the pirates
    at <that Swedish site again> while his server admins fixing things. Now <em>that\u2019s</em>
    a smart way to deal with pirates. \r\n\r\nI\u2019ve also seen small software companies
    create torrents of their own software to generate buzz. It\u2019s not a bad way
    to do a little marketing; it\u2019s certainly cheaper than bribing bloggers or
    tech \u201Djournalists\u201D with promotional iPods. Most torrent sites are happy
    to have people posting demo software, because even if hardly anyone downloads
    it, the whole process lends them a sliver of legitimacy. "
  created: '2008-03-21 22:33:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Is there any way we can just kill designers who download fonts?</em>\r\n\r\nPoison
    them?\r\n\r\n1. Foundry develops two versions of new font; one is normal, the
    other toxic.\r\n2. Foundry releases font--good version through normal channels,
    toxic version uploaded to pirate sites under fake identity.\r\n\r\nOf course,
    some of you will argue that this would be Bad For Typgraphy because it will harm
    \"type appreciation\", and so many of the buccaneers who download the toxic font
    are in the throes of becoming legitimate font purchasers... "
  created: '2008-03-21 22:46:10'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: Just remember "the gloves are off" battles can go two ways.
  created: '2008-03-21 22:48:51'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "Do you think if HF&J published Archer under a \"Pay what you want\" system
    (like \"In Rainbows\") they would have made the same amount of money? \r\n\r\nI
    bet it would be pretty close if you factor in how many people obtained the font
    illegally because they didn't want to pay $600."
  created: '2008-03-21 23:04:54'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Foundry releases font\u2014good version through normal channels, toxic
    version uploaded to pirate sites under fake identity.</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m going
    to take the poison pill analogy a little further. Take a face with a bunch of
    weights and some cool opentype features and release a free stripped-down version
    as a redistributable, maybe even Creative Commons, download. Post it on the pirate
    sites. Sort of like what Jos Buveniga did with the free weights of Museo, but
    distributed via those Swedes. And see if any of the pirates eventually turn into
    paying customers."
  created: '2008-03-21 23:06:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Haley\r\n\r\nBut could they fill a stadium?"
  created: '2008-03-21 23:10:34'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Part of the problem with lumping all pirates together is the simple fact
    that some of those pirates are just collectors who wouldn''t license the font
    to begin with, some of them are designer''s who just want to test the font out
    before licensing it, and lastly there are the designers that just don''t want
    to pay. '
  created: '2008-03-21 23:15:58'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Sometimes I\u2019m pretty surprised at how uncreative type designers are
    about distributing their work. The first foundry can be as creative about dealing
    with pirates as House is about packaging is going to make a mint."
  created: '2008-03-21 23:18:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: James, Ray Larabie came up with that idea a while ago.
  created: '2008-03-21 23:30:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Just remember \u201Cthe gloves are off\u201D battles can go two ways.</em>\r\n\r\nPlease
    don't hurt me Dennis, it was only a joke!"
  created: '2008-03-21 23:32:04'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "I don't believe in traditional copyright. I license all my work under creative
    commons.\r\n\r\nA gloves off battle with the internet would be hilarious. There
    would be digital penis' and delicious cake littering the ground while a person
    in a Sparta costume in the middle of street holds a dying long cat and screams
    WHHHHHHY!\r\n\r\nBetter shut the curtains and get a dog to protect yourself from
    anonymous."
  created: '2008-03-21 23:55:36'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "<em>And see if any of the pirates eventually turn into paying customers.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm
    actually doing this with teaspoon. The free version which only has lower case
    just hit 100,000 downloads and soon a complete version with full character set
    will be released through a foundry for sale for a very good price. And when Soft&Bouncy
    is finished it will be pay what you want. I'll let you know how both approaches
    work out."
  created: '2008-03-22 00:27:07'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>Voluntary type credits on designed works? Much like photo credits.
    A sort of public awareness campaign.</em>\r\n\r\nI have quite some books that
    have the name of the typeface in the colophon.\r\nSometimes I name it as well
    in books I design/typeset. But putting the name of the designer of the typeface
    next to it as well, is a good idea. I think I might start doing it, if the publisher
    doesn't protest too much. :)"
  created: '2008-03-22 00:29:08'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "<em>A gloves off battle with the internet would be hilarious. There would
    be digital penis\u2019 and delicious cake littering the ground while a person
    in a Sparta costume in the middle of street holds a dying long cat and screams
    WHHHHHHY!\r\nBetter shut the curtains and get a dog to protect yourself from anonymous.</em>\r\n\r\ntranslation?"
  created: '2008-03-22 01:30:00'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>translation?</cite>\r\n\r\nFor internet junkies, that\u2019s plain
    English. You just need to read more Warren Ellis, Something Awful, and Modblog."
  created: '2008-03-22 02:55:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I license all my work under creative commons ... a complete version with
    full character set will be released through a foundry for sale</em>\r\n\r\nInternet
    logic?"
  created: '2008-03-22 03:02:34'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Internet logic?</cite>\r\n\r\nThe internet isn\u2019t dominated by
    logic, it\u2019s dominated by porn. And if we can learn anything from Larry Flynt,
    it\u2019s that sometimes there\u2019s a lot of money to be made by ignoring the
    status quo."
  created: '2008-03-22 03:30:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "1% of web pages have porn content, and less than 10% of searches are porn
    related.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-22 03:47:03'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Most of the original internet innovations were dictated by porn. The rest
    of the world is only catching up now.
  created: '2008-03-22 04:56:54'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "<em>Internet logic?</em>\r\nThe free version has a by-nc-sa license attached
    to it.  I don't know yet about the for sale version.   I don't really care about
    remixing and then distributing for non-commercial purposes. Even for work I sell.
    I think that design way more fun when there's collaboration involved.  Thats probably
    the license I would attach to it if I was doing the distributation myself. \r\n\r\nBut
    in this case the foundry can license it however they want since they're distributing
    it.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-22 05:33:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Haley, I thought Creative Commons licensing wasn't for software.
  created: '2008-03-22 06:56:42'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "<em>You just need to read more Warren Ellis, Something Awful, and Modblog.</em>\r\nno,
    \r\nI really don't"
  created: '2008-03-22 13:55:59'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>Most of the original internet innovations were dictated by porn.</em>\r\n\r\nAh,
    well, that would explain the state of fonts on the web. Nothing better than what
    we have now is needed for porn."
  created: '2008-03-22 15:32:26'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: Creative Commons can apply to anything traditional copyright can be. They
    advise against licensing software code though. Maybe that's what you're thinking
    of.
  created: '2008-03-22 15:48:46'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "I think this thread may be getting away from, us. Then again, maybe we can
    employ jenna jameson as a font awareness mascott.\r\n(insert your own pun about
    tittles and ascenders)."
  created: '2008-03-22 15:50:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Creative Commons can apply to anything traditional copyright can be.
    They advise against licensing software code though. Maybe that\u2019s what you\u2019re
    thinking of.</em>\r\n\r\n\"Creative Commons licenses are not intended to apply
    to software. They should not be used for software.\"\r\n-CC FAQ.\r\n\r\nAren't
    fonts software?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-22 16:56:14'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite> Please don\u2019t hurt me Dennis, it was only a joke!</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    only meant to point out that those kind of things can get out of hand. Just ask
    the Hatfields and the McCoys. Or George Bush and the Taliban."
  created: '2008-03-22 17:13:33'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>Aren\u2019t fonts software?</em>\r\n\r\nI guess they are. But they
    aren't really <em>programmed</em>, or written as software usually is? (Not counting
    the, in comparison little, pieces of opentype code). "
  created: '2008-03-22 18:23:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Rasterizers I guess have *executable* code, whereas the font only has executable
    code in the form of the open type instructions. But the rest of the font is still
    code: every glyph is stored as a set of numbers--locations of nodes, handles,
    sidebearings, etc. This information is designed to be exectuted by rastizers'
    code, which yields the picture on the screen or printed on paper. \r\n\r\nThe
    world may not be made of numbers, as Pythagoras thought, but software sure is,
    and that includes fonts.  "
  created: '2008-03-22 18:36:08'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Yes, I agree completely. But where most software is written as such, or programmed/coded,
    most fonts are drawn with b\xE9ziers. I think this is a important difference?\r\n\r\nAlso,
    where do the shapes come in to play? My knowledge of legislation about typefaces
    is very limited, although I think the laws about it are more forgiving in the
    Netherlands, for example, than in the US."
  created: '2008-03-22 18:42:00'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Is that distinguishable from a jpg image? - that is also a set of numerical
    instructions to be interpreted by the computer, but we certainly see CC limits
    attached to jpgs.
  created: '2008-03-22 18:46:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "In the US, as I understand it, only the code as software is protected, and
    the name. So if you copy a font and manipulate it by a few rules--eg increasing
    its size 10% and try to sell it you are violating the rights of the maker. \r\n\r\nThe
    shapes are not protected as such unless there is a design patent. I think in principle
    they could be, but it is difficult to tell when a variation is a violation, which
    is perhaps why the current US law is in the state it is. I have heard that European
    laws are better in this respect, but I don't know what they are. "
  created: '2008-03-22 19:53:59'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: Fonts are an implementation of a design more than a software code.
  created: '2008-03-22 22:31:41'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'If I understand it correctly, nobody really believes fonts are software,
    but vendors and lawyers treat them that way to get around the lack of copyright
    protections for typeface designs in the US. '
  created: '2008-03-22 23:24:46'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "The definition of software (i.e. \"computer program\") from the U.S. Copyright
    Code, Title 17, \xA7101:\r\n\r\n<cite>A \u201Ccomputer program\u201D is a set
    of statements or instructions to be used directly or indirectly in a computer
    in order to bring about a certain result. </cite>\r\n\r\nDatabases are also eligible
    for some copyright protection. If one doesn't accept that font software is a computer
    program, then at the least it can be considered a database.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-23 13:29:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>If I understand it correctly</em>\r\n\r\nYou don't, William does.\r\n\r\nOpenType
    substitution is certainly code, and hinting and kerning may also be considered
    \"instructions\" that control the way bezier shapes are rasterized. \r\n\r\nPre-
    OS X, \"suitcases\" were considered to be \"utilities\", a form of mini-program.
    \r\n\r\nThe key concept for utilities is that they \"manage and tune\" higher-up
    forms of software, such as applications. Digital fonts manage and tune the way
    that the bezier outlines they contain are rasterized.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-23 17:46:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"For internet junkies, that\u2019s plain English\"\r\n\r\nNow my head hurts
    already. I guess I will just spend my remaining geezerly years terminally unhip.
    Lock me up in the home right now and throw away the key. Maybe Rich Keglar will
    visit me on ocasion and we can speak English together just for fun :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-23 21:44:45'
date: '2008-03-18 18:47:08'
title: more font awareness

---
