---
author:
  name: dan_reynolds
  picture: 110440
body: "Hello everyone\u2026 I know that the \"what printer should I buy for typeface
  proofing\" question has been done to death over and over on Typophile, so I will
  try to keep my question really specific.\r\n\r\nI'm about to buy a laser printer
  in Berlin. I've narrowed my search down to two possibilities: the HP LaserJet 1022
  and the HP LaserJet P2015.\r\n\r\nIn England, I've inherited an 1022, but I don't
  have it with me when I am in Germany, and I will be leaving it in Reading (hello
  Reading MATD class of 2008\u20132009!) when I relocate back to Germany for good
  at the end of September. The 1022 is nice, but it doesn't render outlines 100% perfectly.
  It is close though.\r\n\r\nSo I need to buy a printer for the longer haul. I can
  easily afford another 1022, but the twice-as-expensive P2015 (300 euro vs. 130 euro)
  looks good as well. I don't care about printing speed, since I only proof a few
  pages at a time. Both printers print 1200 x 1200 dpi. But if I can get better (really)
  outline rendition on 12 point type, the price increase of the P2015 would be worth
  it, I think. \r\n\r\nDoes anyone here use the P2015? Would you recommend it? Thanks!\r\n\r\nP.S.:
  At Linotype, I used a P3005, which I just love, love, love! If I can find one in
  my price range, I'd probably buy it instead. But this isn't really my question."
comments:
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "I use the P2015 and it's great and only eight seconds from you print to the
    first page comes out \u2013 even from standby mode. Highly recommended."
  created: '2008-03-20 12:40:13'
- author:
    name: peterbruhn
    picture: 110509
  body: 'I''m  really happy with my P20015. I haven''t seen print-outs from the 1022
    so I can''t compare, but it''s good detail down to very small sizes. '
  created: '2008-03-20 13:00:15'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Dan,\r\n\r\nhave you thought about getting an older model? I bought a used
    LJ 4050 last summer for about 70 \u20AC (incl. PS, 3rd paper cassette, no network).
    That's a real workhorse, indestructible ;)\r\n\r\nI can compare only to a HP LJ
    6MP (600dpi) and a 1200dpi Kyocera FS-1920, the 4050 prints way better than both
    of them.\r\n\r\nIf you're in Berlin, I can show you a printout :)\r\n\r\nJens"
  created: '2008-03-20 13:19:42'
- author:
    name: Nicole Dotin
    picture: 110879
  body: "As the previous owner of your 1022... I'm surprised you would consider buying
    another (but happy it's worked for you, too). The price is certainly right, but
    its print outs are grainy and always heavy. I wouldn't buy that printer for the
    long-haul.\r\n\r\nHow is the 1022, anyway? Does it miss me?"
  created: '2008-03-20 13:31:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Dan,\r\nI have a 2300 HP. It is 600dpi and comes with what they call Pro
    Rez that is supposed to simulate 1200 dpi. I would compare results to how an inflatable
    woman compares to a real human :-)\r\n\r\nIt is a good general purpose machine
    but not so good for type design. As you say with the 1022, outline rendition at
    smaller sizes is not acceptable for type design use. Let me now how your new machine
    works out!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-20 13:42:05'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "><em>How is the 1022, anyway? Does it miss me?</em>\r\n\r\nYes, it does!
    I think that it misses Charlie most of all, though. The printer is decidedly not
    moody, which I can't say about any of the other printers I try to connect to regularly.
    Of course you are right about that weight being a problem.\r\n\r\nJens, I have
    thought about buying a used printer. The only drawback is that I need to make
    my decision soon; I'd like to have whatever I'm going to get by this time next
    week.\r\n\r\nIt is nice to hear some good things about the P2015."
  created: '2008-03-20 13:42:41'
- author:
    name: Nicole Dotin
    picture: 110879
  body: Well, tell the 1022 we all say hi (although, you might want to avoid telling
    it we don't think it's the ideal printer for type design proofing... no need to
    insult it).
  created: '2008-03-20 19:03:48'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Not on topic, but for what it is worth. Top is process black on uncoated
    vs. Ricoh AP610N on super white office paper on the bottom. Walbaum 9/11.125.\r\n\r\nI
    recently purchased this for about $400 US.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ricoh_6653.gif]"
  created: '2008-03-20 21:59:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I always use very good paper and it really helps but 600dpi just doesn't
    cut it for type.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-20 22:42:44'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I have a P2015 too. The main drawback already - noted else where - is that
    hinted fonts don't proof properly with it. It's some kind of HP rendering engine
    glitch. I have been meaning to see if they patched it in some kind of firmware
    update or something for a while! But if you can proof sans hints then you are
    alright. I really like it's speed and the quality is good. I compared it against
    many other new printers looking at actual output last year and I felt it was the
    best compromise in the price range. Paper has a definite impact on quality. I
    have had no issues with it in the past year.
  created: '2008-03-21 02:56:00'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Thanks, Eben! What about unhinted fonts?
  created: '2008-03-21 12:26:17'
- author:
    name: andyclymer
    picture: 110580
  body: Hey Eben, I'm curious about this HP hinting glitch, what exactly happens?
  created: '2008-03-21 14:31:08'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: HP uses postscript emulation, rather than true postscript. For true postscript
    I recomment the Ricoh that James mentioned above, or a Xante machine. I have the
    Ricoh and think it's a great machine. They also make a smaller version, I can't
    remember the exact  name.
  created: '2008-03-21 15:01:21'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "No problem with unhinted fonts.\r\n\r\nHP's PS-interpreter applies hints
    even at resolutions/sizes that don't need hints. E.g. overshoot is suppressed,
    so round letters are smaller than they actually are. Not really useful for evaluating
    type design.\r\nIt's amazing that HP <em>still</em> hasn't done anything about
    it -- they know about the problem for a couple of years now."
  created: '2008-03-21 15:10:04'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks Karsten! Now I don't have to go & link to the thread where you said
    that. \r\n\r\nMaybe one day I will have a Xante...\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2008-03-21 15:32:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I would love a 2400 dpi Xante but $4000 is more than I can spare.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-21 15:34:48'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Likewise. But when those fonts start selling like hotcakes... nevermind.\r\n\r\nActually,
    if you are proofing for office use I think the P2015 is not bad at all. ;-)"
  created: '2008-03-21 16:07:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I can dream of selling like hotcakes but first I have to get them off of
    the griddle :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-21 16:17:40'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: And I though type designers were rich :op ...
  created: '2008-03-21 17:45:59'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I knew about HP's PostScript clone incorrectly applying overshoot suppression
    at sizes beyond what it should. Do we actually know anything specific about any
    other bad hint processing on their part? I certainly don't.\r\n\r\nAlthough the
    overshoot processing bug *is* a big one for type designers working with Type 1
    or OpenType CFF, it bothers me when a very specific problem starts to be represented
    as being broader and more nebulous than it is. Then again, maybe Karsten knows
    something I don't - certainly possible!\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-03-21 18:52:09'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Yep, the \"e.g.\" before \"overshoot\" was nonsense. The overshoot issue
    is serious enough for type designers who want to <em>see</em> the overshoot and
    evaluate whether it is sufficient or not. What bothers me is that type designers
    who use a HP (one without original Adobe RIP) should need to find out by themselves
    that the error is <em>not</em> in their drawings.\r\n\r\nBtw, I still use a HP
    printer, my third or fourth, because I like the printing quality."
  created: '2008-03-21 19:37:57'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Well, thank you everyone for all your comments! After much looking, I've
    ordered the P2015. If it is good enough for Peter Bruhn, then it is good enough
    for me, I guess.\r\n\r\nI spent a while looking for Ricohs, Xantes and Xeroxes.
    None of these were carried in stores. I had heard some good things about real
    PostScript Xeroxes, but online, I could only find a single b/w Xerox Phaser in
    my price range, and just had PostScript 3 emulation. I could get a big Ricoh,
    but only if I had it shipped from the US. That would surely take too long, and
    I'd have to pay import duties as well, which in my experience seem to average
    about 20% of the cost. I couldn't find any Xantes in country either.\r\n\r\nSince
    I'm proofing unhinted type, I think that I'll be allright for now. I've had good
    experiences with the HP 3005, so I have my fingers crossed. Wish me luck!\r\n\r\nChris,
    I can send you samples later if you'd like."
  created: '2008-03-23 14:33:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Chris, I can send you samples later if you\u2019d like.\"\r\n\r\nThanks,
    Dan!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-23 21:30:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Is the P3005 true PS?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-06 23:39:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hrant,\r\nAccording to the HP site, Print languages are HP PCL 5e HP PCL
    6, HP postscript level 3 emulation.\r\n\r\nHP has a reasonable postscript emulation
    but tends to add more weight to horizontal than to vertical lines.  It is also
    a tad bit heavier than true PostScript.  It is very reliable though.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-09-07 00:47:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> tends to add more weight to horizontal than to vertical lines.\r\n\r\nInteresting.
    Is this documented anywhere,\r\nor did you do hi-res scans or something?\r\n\r\n>
    It is also a tad bit heavier than true PostScript.\r\n\r\nWell, the lower a printer's
    resolution (yours is 600 dpi, right?)\r\nthe thicker everything looks. Or do you
    mean that at the same\r\nresolution a true PS printer renders lighter?\r\n\r\nBTW,
    my 1022 has a weight setting that makes everything\r\nlighter or heavier, but
    I haven't tested it rigorously.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-07 01:03:41'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: wrong thread, oops
  created: '2009-09-07 01:07:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hrant,\r\nI meant heavier than a 1200 dpi Xante with true Adobe PostScript,
    not my 600 dpi printer. I have done ImageSetter tests using a Linotronic at 2540
    dpi. The Linotronic was clearly lighter than any Laser printer I have ever seen
    and the curves and near verticals (as you might imagine) were incredibly smoothe.
    \ I can't even find a service bureau which does this kind of output any more.
    Direct to plate prepress has killed the market,  The only people on the planet
    who want Linotronic photo paper output are type designers like us and we are all
    too broke and too few to be worth the effort. :-)\r\n\r\nI find the lightweight
    settings on laser printers just reduces the density of toner applied giving you
    the appearance of lighter weight but not really accurate enough to help you refine
    a typeface at text sizes or smaller.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-09-07 01:18:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The Linotronic was clearly lighter than\r\n> any Laser printer I have ever
    seen\r\n\r\nThat's mostly (but not entirely) due to the higher resolution though.\r\n\r\n>
    I find the lightweight settings on laser\r\n> printers just reduces the density
    of toner\r\n\r\nThat's something called \"economode\" or something, that saves
    toner by printing gray. AFAIK there's something else that causes more or less
    toner to amass on the drum, in effect making the \"silhouettes\" fatter or thinner.
    But yeah, I wouldn't trust that to equate to a higher-res printer at all, at least
    not at the letterform level.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-07 01:30:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"But yeah, I wouldn\u2019t trust that to equate to a higher-res printer
    at all, at least not at the letterform level.\"\r\n\r\nYup, that is our dilemma.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-09-07 02:19:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I just saw this - looks quite promising:\r\nhttp://accessories.us.dell.com/sna/productdetail.aspx?c=us&cs=04&l=en&sku=224-5818\r\nhttp://www.productwiki.com/dell-2230d/\r\n\r\nIt
    even has duplexing, which makes the price exceptional.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-11 03:43:53'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "Thanks, hrant!\r\n\r\nThat actually does look like a great unit. \r\n\r\nReplaced
    my Laserjet P2015 (it died, out of warranty) with this:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.brother.ca/en/printer/description.asp?Prodid=7407656982107861709&features=on\r\n\r\nIt's
    getting excellent reviews. It does true 1200 dpi, duplexing, emulates Postscript
    3 (supposed to be decent), and is quite affordable."
  created: '2009-09-11 03:58:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That <em>does</em> look good. WiFi too!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-11 04:37:35'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Brother is generally supposed to be pretty good from what I hear. FWIW one
    guy from my type class did a little comparison about half a year ago comparing
    scans from the same file printed on different printers; the Brother models (HL5040
    and HL5250) performed exceptionally in terms of quality, compared to the rest
    (some HP/Canon/Lexmark models). Now these models don't seem to be available anymore\u2026
    but maybe that's a vote for Brother in general."
  created: '2009-09-11 10:11:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The 5040 is actually 600dpi, but I'm getting the feeling that the\r\n5370
    is a new version of the 5250 (which would be good news).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-11 15:05:34'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hm \u2013 the file I have shows both a 600dpi and a 1200dpi version/setting(?)
    of the 5040 (and even the 600dpi looks impressive in fact). I should ask back."
  created: '2009-09-11 15:14:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...guy from my type class did a little comparison about half a year ago
    comparing scans from the same file printed on different printers\"\r\n\r\nNina,\r\nThe
    \ comparison of scanned images is not the best way to check a printer for use
    in type design. You can see general printing ability and rendering of pixel images
    but type design needs to see how a printer pours pixels into a bezier outline--how
    does it choose to deal with rounding, how much hinting affects the output, how
    it interprets PostScript, how much toner spread it generates, etc.. At large sizes,
    this is less of an issue but at text sizes, it can be quite significant.\r\nI
    even notice a difference using the same printer and type if it comes from the
    originating app like InD or from a PDF generated from it. Oddly enough, even Adobe
    products like InD and PDF don't always match when printed to a laser printer.
    I don't know if this is do to PostScript interpreter, the operating system rendering,
    or differences in the way each software sends to the rendering device.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-09-11 20:08:58'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"The comparison of scanned images is not the best way to check a printer
    for use in type design\"</cite>\r\n? Did I say images? Sorry if I was unclear,
    Chris \u2013 it was text he printed/scanned (Optima at 8pt). But there was no
    control over the paper used etc., so it's obviously not going to be the Ultimate
    Answer (but still interesting).\r\nI would have permission to post an image if
    people are interested.\r\n\r\nBTW, I know that other problem; my printer's output
    is useless directly from InDesign \u2013 I make PDFs of everything. :-\\"
  created: '2009-09-11 20:20:12'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "As I recall, as of several years ago, Brother's PostScript emulation was
    exceptionally bad. I wouldn't have touched it with a 10-foot pole based on that.\r\n\r\nThis
    may have changed since, or perhaps my memory is faulty, but that's what I recall
    hearing from the printer gurus at Adobe.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-09-12 06:53:37'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "Thomas:\r\n\r\nCould it be a PPD vs. CUPS issue?\r\n\r\nOr print at PostScript
    Level II instead? Or print to PDF instead?\r\n\r\nBrother implements \"BR-Script3\"
    emulation on its lasers, at least in this price range. All I can tell so far is
    that 1200dpi text printed from the HL-5370DW is crisp and beautiful. But that's
    not much of a Postscript test. I don't really use Adobe products, either. I do
    the odd thing in Quark Xpress8, though I haven't had time to test this printer
    with it. This printer is strictly for text, used with Apple's Pages application.
    \r\n\r\nWhat is the best test for Postscript emulation quality?\r\n\r\nOf course
    a Laserwriter 8500 is still an option. Always one for sale somewhere.  ;)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-12 13:42:30'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "Thomas:\r\n\r\nI should add that although I don't really use Adobe software,
    I *am* a fan of the Adobe fonts.  ;)\r\n\r\nActually, with respect to Laserwriters,
    OS X 10.6 no longer includes AppleTalk. So if I want true PostScript goodness
    I'd need to set up my old PowerPC 6100/60 from 1994 as a print server. Hehe .
    . ."
  created: '2009-09-12 14:15:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Laserwriter 8500\r\n\r\nI would never buy that. It doesn't have an \"i\"
    in front of it.\r\nhttp://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=itard\r\n\r\nHey
    u guyz no wen iNeedALife at the STORE?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-12 15:14:27'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Wow Thomas, that's worrisome. Our teachers at the type class specifically
    recommended Brother printers. I wonder if they changed something about that emulation.\r\n\r\nNow
    I can't help posting at least a bit of this:\r\n(8pt Optima scanned at 1200 dpi,
    thanks to Richard)\r\nLooks pretty good to me, especially the 5250.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/brother-scan_4981.jpg]\r\n\r\nFull
    file here: http://www.altaira.de/posted/infomercial.png\r\n\r\nSorry for making
    the HP thread a Brother thread\u2026"
  created: '2009-09-12 16:26:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That's pretty revealing! Thank you.\r\nBut did you say the paper was different
    for each one?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-12 16:36:49'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Yeah, no control over the paper. Basically this is what he said:\r\n\r\n\"I
    went to Media Markt to look at mono laser printers but there was no\r\ngood information
    or examples of the quality. So, I did an experiment:\r\nI asked friends and colleagues
    to print out a sample on their laser\r\nprinter, and scanned in the results.\r\nThe
    attached image is 8pt Optima scanned at 1200 dpi. At the top and\r\nthe bottom,
    you can see how it \"should\" look, and in between, the scan\r\nfrom each printout.
    As you can see there is quite a difference between\r\nthe printers. (Of course
    there will also be differences because of\r\ndifferent paper, older toner, etc,
    etc, but I couldn't control that.)\"\r\n\r\nSo it's not uh, scientific. But still
    interesting."
  created: '2009-09-12 16:46:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "One other wrench in the test: there are many different versions of\r\nOptima!
    For example in mine (TT, Medium weight, from Linotype)\r\nthe stems are cupped
    at the baseline.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-12 17:00:01'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Nina, this is great! But you need at least one more line in your test: the
    same word in the same point size printed on the same paper stock, but on an offset
    press (maybe multiple presses, too\u2026)"
  created: '2009-09-12 17:16:22'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I'll try to get the file Richard used for testing. \r\nActually that might
    be pretty cool, we could continue&expand the experiment here on Typophile :)\r\n\r\n[Edit]
    Dan, offset would be great. And letterpress! But I guess we'd need to get funding
    for that. :)"
  created: '2009-09-12 17:24:44'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "No, you shouldn't test just for the sake of testing! It isn't really relevant
    how close the the laser-printed output is to the font's outlines. What is important
    is how close the printer approximates the font's appearance in real print. Testing
    with letterpress isn't really relevant, unless you are making a face primarily
    intended for that medium\u2026 which is practically never the case anymore."
  created: '2009-09-12 17:30:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But Dan, \"real print\" is misleading, because even offset varies. So maybe
    comparing to the outlines does make sense in its own way: it's a comparison with
    the \"ideal\" that the printer is given to print.\r\n\r\n> practically never the
    case anymore.\r\n\r\nWell, not <em>never</em>.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-12 17:56:05'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Right, but unless you are just making a font for office use, then laser printers
    are just an intermediary step to help you along the way.
  created: '2009-09-12 18:01:50'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "But even if laser printers are just \"an intermediary step to help you along
    the way\", it does help if they show you something that's as close as possible
    to what's actually there, no?\r\nI'm just realizing I have no clue how offset
    printing would fit into this. But wouldn't it likely be less_different from the
    original outline than any laser printer? Which would mean that getting as close
    to the \"original\" as possible during testing (with the laser) would make sense.
    No?"
  created: '2009-09-12 18:22:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Dan's point is that the \"original\" is not the outlines, it's what readers
    see, which is (generally) offset repro. The outlines are an ideal that are never
    seen by readers.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-12 18:31:22'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Yeah, that does make sense, and I would like to have an offset sample in
    there. \r\nBut my point was that if the offset print (which readers see) is somewhat
    tightly sandwiched between the laser print (which we see) and the actual outlines
    (which is what we control), quality-wise, and all these are as close together
    as possible, then that should still work out OK (I'm thinking).\r\n\r\nBTW, I
    don't know about you guys, but I'm getting about as much stuff digitally printed
    as offset, and from talking to printers and colleagues I'm thinking this might
    be a trend industry-wide. So laser printing isn't just for testing\u2026"
  created: '2009-09-12 18:37:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The thing is, using \"lino\" output to judge a font is in some way even more
    removed from readers than a (hi-res) laser. Which however doesn't make it useless;
    the void it fills is the space between seeing huge glyphs onscreen (where you're
    not really reading) and offset repro (which is prohibitive in cost/time for something
    as highly iterative as type design). The problem is it's become very difficult
    to get \"lino\" output.\r\n\r\nSo the hi-res laser can actually be more than an
    intermediary: it strikes a great balance between realism and cost. You see something
    in effect close to offset repro, quickly and cheaply. It's not enough to pull
    off any project, but it can do 95% of the job in most cases.\r\n\r\nBTW, how would
    you compare digital output versus offset?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-12 18:47:28'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "You lost me \u2013 what's \"lino output\"?\r\n\r\n<cite>\"BTW, how would
    you compare digital output versus offset?\"</cite>\r\nYou mean in terms of quality/fidelity?"
  created: '2009-09-12 18:56:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I should've said \"imagesetter\". You know, 2400 or higher, extremely white
    photographic paper, etc. I used to regularly get imagesetter output as a final
    proof (either on RC paper or something called velox), and it was critical in matching
    weights across the various styles of Nour&Patria for example, but now it's a pain
    to find a bureau that does that.\r\n\r\nYes, fidelity/\"texture\"/etc.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-12 19:02:49'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Oh, ok. Like proof printing? That sounds pretty great (and seems like something
    that used to be used more before I was around). :-\\\r\n\r\nQuality: Bear in mind
    I've been at this \"seriously\" for a year or so now, so I'm hardly an expert*
    (and it's not like I print three books every week). But some impressions are that
    digital output (1) is almost always darker [in terms of type weight], and (2)
    varies a lot depending on technical stuff that's outside of my reach as a designer,
    for example in terms of curve fidelity (and something that looks like exposure,
    which probably doesn't make much sense technically). \r\nOffset to me seems generally
    sharper, \"truer\" to the actual forms,** less \"spread out\"; but it tends to
    vary in other terms, such as depending on the soaky-ness of the paper, and the
    amount of color\u2026 uh coverage?. And one thing about offset that is muchly
    different of course (and much nicer for reading, I think) is how the color sits
    \"inside\" the paper, and isn't a tactile (and sometimes shiny) thing sitting
    on top of the paper, like in digital. Plus the contrast is usually less crass,
    since offset black isn't the Super-Shiny-Extra-Enriched-Super-Black that some
    toner manufacturers seem to think everybody wants\u2026\r\n\r\n* Shouldn't *I*
    be asking *you* this question? :)\r\n\r\n** Hence my hypothesis before (which
    is ready to be shot down if it's wrong) of offset quality/fidelity being \"sandwiched\"
    somewhere between digital and the outlines."
  created: '2009-09-12 19:17:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Shouldn\u2019t *I* be asking *you* this question? :)\r\n\r\nI just <em>make</em>
    fonts, lady, I don't use 'em.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-12 19:30:59'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "Just ran some quick tests with my new Brother HL-5370DW.\r\n\r\nPrinting
    options include:\r\n\r\n300 dpi\r\n600 dpi\r\nHQ 1200 (2400x600 interpolated)\r\n1200
    dpi (true 1200x1200)\r\n\r\nWhen printing text in 2400x600, there is some inordinate
    thickening in certain areas of the fonts - usually the sides. \r\n\r\nWhen printing
    text in 1200x1200, the fonts look better - crisp and clear. \r\n\r\nSeems 2400x600
    (or HQ 1200) is meant for graphics, is it not?"
  created: '2009-09-12 20:20:40'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: 'Hrant: I kinda figured you look at them after they''re printed, too. ;-)'
  created: '2009-09-12 20:23:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Seems 2400x600 (or HQ 1200) is meant for graphics, is it not?\r\n\r\nIt's
    meant for tricking people into thinking\r\nthey're buying a 2400 dpi printer.
    It works.  :-(\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-12 20:49:55'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "Well at least in the marketing info and on the box, 1200dpi is  one of the
    main selling points, and seems to be promoted over the \"HQ1200\" or 2400x600dpi
    feature. \r\n\r\n\"Prints up to 1200 dpi\" is emblazoned clearly on the box. There
    is no mention at all of 2400x600 or any \"HQ 1200\" feature.\r\n\r\nI take it
    to be a rather heartening sign in a sea of otherwise gimmicky features on printers
    that are steadily getting worse in build quality. Or maybe I'm making too much
    of it. It's just that had I not done the research beforehand, I too might have
    been taken in by the 2400x600 ploy. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-12 21:02:49'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Hence my hypothesis before [ . . . ] of offset quality/fidelity
    being \u201Csandwiched\u201D somewhere between digital and the outlines.</cite>\r\n\r\nNina,
    this is a reasonable working assumption. The trick is the nature of \"sandwiched\",
    because it may not be a neatly linear interpolation.\r\n\r\nWhen reviewing laser
    proofs of a type design in progress, I find it useful to periodically \"calibrate\"
    my brain. For this purpose I keep laser prints of a few layouts of Whitman which
    can be directly compared with a couple real-world printed samples -- magazines
    and books, both coated and uncoated stocks. \r\n"
  created: '2009-09-13 14:23:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I wrote in another thread recently:\r\n\r\n<em>\u2018...I look at the same
    typeface printed on two different paper stocks, or from two different laser printers
    claiming the same resolution, and think that the lack of control that we face
    in different screen rendering technologies isn\u2019t anything new. Then I go
    back to this\r\n\r\nhttp://www.tiro.com/John/Baskerville-a.jpg\r\n\r\n\u2018(all
    taken from a single page) and ask myself whether there is any such thing as a
    typeface except as a source of limited but uncontrolled variation.\u2019</em>"
  created: '2009-09-14 05:40:45'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"The trick is the nature of \u201Csandwiched\u201D, because it may
    not be a neatly linear interpolation.\"</cite>\r\nBut it *is* in between? Or would
    you say (judging from your variety of samples) that offset prints [can] diverge
    from the original outline in fundamentally different ways than laser prints \u2014
    so, ways that laser prints could not help you anticipate?"
  created: '2009-09-14 07:50:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I think that last comment is correct, Nina. \u2018Sandwiched\u2019 implies
    a kind of continuum on which one can plot different examples of output in terms
    of relative fidelity or degradation. But this doesn't enable us to account for
    different kinds of degradation. A better way to think about the relationship of
    typefaces as output to typefaces as source would be a scattershot projection,
    in which the typeface as source is in the middle, and individual examples of output
    surround it, closer or further away depending on quality of fidelity and radially
    arranged in terms of type of degradation. Seen like this, the variety of output
    is appropriately overwhelming."
  created: '2009-09-14 10:35:03'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Yes, especially if one visualizes that scattershot diagram of output in \"n\"
    dimensions, where \"n\" is a number greater than or equal to four....\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-09-16 05:00:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "News flash:\r\nOffice Depot currently has the Brother HL-5370DW for $200.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-18 04:03:38'
date: '2008-03-20 11:52:42'
title: 'HP LaserJets: 1022 vs P2015?'

---
