---
author:
  name: juandelperal
  picture: 111849
body: "It is possible to make proportional Oldstyle figures default in a Opentype
  font?\r\nAnd, is there a way to make it work on a \xABnon-design\xBB software (for
  example MS Word)?\r\nThank you very much guys.\r\n\r\nJuan Pablo del Peral"
comments:
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: It is. Just have a look at Microsoft's Cleartype fonts which ship with Vista.  :)
  created: '2008-03-20 21:19:24'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "You can do whatever you want. The guidelines mention that tabular/lining
    is typically the default, but not assumed. If having oldstyle proportional figures
    makes sense as the default for your font, go ahead and do it.\r\n\r\nThe way to
    do it is to put the oldstyle proportional glyphs in the normal zero-nine slots,
    and put the others in alternate slots. Then write your feature code for onum,
    tnum, lnum, and onum to select the proper glyphs accordingly. (There is no \"default
    number style\" feature tag--the layout application simply removes any of the four
    number style features that may be active, leaving whatever you have put in the
    zero-nine slots.)"
  created: '2008-03-20 21:31:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Karsten, all of the ClearType fonts except Consolas were originally designed
    to have proportional oldstyle numerals as defaults. But when Office decided that
    they wanted Calibri and Cambria to be new default fonts in Word, they requested
    that we change the encoding so that the lining tabular numerals became default.
    [This, by the way, messed up some of the superior numeral lookups and other things,
    currently being fixed.]
  created: '2008-03-21 01:02:53'
- author:
    name: juandelperal
    picture: 111849
  body: "Thank you very much!\r\nI still have a question. What would be the naming
    of those glyphs? I mean: for each character you have 4 glyphs. For example: for
    <strong>1</strong> you have one, oneoldstyle, unif644 and unif6dc. (At least it's
    like this in Caslon Pro)\r\nIf I use the one slot for the oneoldstyle glyph, how
    I should use the others slots?\r\nThank you again and sorry about this \xABenglish\xBB.\r\n\r\nJuan"
  created: '2008-03-22 17:31:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Ignore those names in Caslon Pro. Adobe isn't using that approach any more.\r\n\r\nAll
    the numeral glyph names should be parseable back to the default numerals. Other
    than that, you can name variants with whatever suffixes make sense to you. I use
    a two-letter suffix for numerals, one for style and one for spacing:\r\n\r\none
    (default numeral)\r\none.OP (oldstyle proportional)\r\none.OT (oldstyle tabular)\r\none.LP
    (lining proportional)\r\none.LT (lining tabular)\r\none.SP (smallcap-lining proportional)\r\none.ST
    (smallcap-lining tabular)\r\netc.\r\n\r\nAdam Twardoch favours using OpenType
    feature tags as suffixes, something like:\r\n\r\none (default numeral)\r\none.onumpnum
    (oldstyle proportional)\r\none.onumtnum (oldstyle tabular)\r\none.lnumpnum (lining
    proportional)\r\none.lnumtnum (lining tabular)\r\none.smcppnum (smallcap-lining
    proportional)\r\none.smcptnum (smallcap-lining tabular)\r\netc.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-22 19:20:28'
- author:
    name: juandelperal
    picture: 111849
  body: "Mark, John.\r\nThank you very much for the information. I was very confused
    but now I understand all.\r\nSee you guys and thankx again!"
  created: '2008-03-22 20:33:48'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...but now I understand all.\"\r\n\r\nCool! So you know that we're all
    working in a box where every side presents bad options, as do the top and bottom.\r\n\r\nThat
    is to say, that OS and apps are retarded in their acceptance of OpenType, so founders
    and not users, are the only ones capable of setting the defaults for case.\r\n\r\nThat
    is to say that unicode treats lowercase letters like one of the family, but lowercase
    numbers, like an orphan. (everybody! make up names!)\r\n\r\nThat is to say the
    tools for making fonts are retarded by having limits on the lengths of strings,
    making John's names for things as short as possible.\r\n\r\nThat is to say, what
    Adam's amazingly repetitive naming is about, the inability to organize properly,
    as his names are neither short, (like John's, for ease on the designer) or to
    the point, (like a user could read 'em).\r\n\r\nIsn't it cool how few smart, purely
    logical and user-friendly options we have?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-03-24 10:30:37'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>That is to say, that OS and apps are retarded in their acceptance of
    OpenType, so founders and not users, are the only ones capable of setting the
    defaults for case.</cite>\r\n\r\nOr capable of setting a number of things, all
    the proper domain of users, not founders. I would particularly like to see the
    user be able to add to the exception kerning list while leaving the basic class
    kerning untouched, and save this in the font, not in some external program that
    always has to be read in. \r\n\r\nBy in large, I agree with all you've said (leaving
    Adam's naming system out of it). Perhaps in OpenType, version 2? "
  created: '2008-03-24 12:29:15'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...OpenType, version 2\"\r\n...if there is a google term for a search that
    finds only 3 results, you may accurately use it. :-)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-03-24 22:33:55'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Charles:\r\n\r\nI don't think there are technical limitations precluding
    handling kerning in that way. But since very few font vendors' licenses would
    allow such modification of the original font, I don't see that such a proposal
    is likely to be met with much excitement from application creators.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-03-24 22:53:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I can't imagine a typeface vendor wanting to deal with tech support issues
    on any altered font even if the EULA allowed modification. \r\nI can certainly
    understand the need for more cooperation on support of fonts and OpenType features
    between, OS developers, Application developers, and Typeface developers. Naming
    conventions and menu hierarchies among all parties could be agreed upon and followed
    as a standard. The 4 font linked family maximum at this point in time is archaic.
    Lack of support for OpenType features is unacceptable by now as well. Font developers
    should not need to invent workarounds to get fonts to function as expected in
    non-compliant applications. Kerning should not be buried where users need dig
    for the option to turn it on.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-25 02:26:00'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Thomas,\r\n\r\nI'm well aware that Adobe is one of the few foundries that
    does allow user-modified kerning, and more. The \"more\" issues can wait, but
    I feel compelled to point out that the user can modify the kerning, one instance
    at a time, in most any layout program making any pretensions to \"setting type.\"\r\n\r\nThe
    point of having kerning in the font is so the compositors do not have to repeat
    their work every time a certain letter/symbol sequence occurs, for the bulk of
    material to be set (i.e., text).\r\n\r\nI have been kerning type for over 20 years,
    and still cannot get things right on my first attempt. I use \"first attempt\"
    to cover several passes and laser printouts. I find I have to see the type as
    it appears in the final printed form, more than once, and revisit the kerning
    several times after seeing ink on paper.\r\n\r\nWhile some may argue that I am
    just inordinately slow in arriving at passable kerning, I disagree. Moreover,
    I rather doubt that any foundry can get the kerning right before releasing a font.
    Nor would most of us typesetters expect that. In the photocomp days, it was expected
    that the type shop would make up their own kerning tables. One of the many things
    I admire about Matthew Carter is that he both understands and acknowledges the
    difference between type designers and type users.\r\n\r\nSince the typesetter
    can change the kerning one instance at a time, and can made up any accented character
    out of the several glyphs in the font, it make no sense to prohibit them from
    making these changes permanently, in the font itself.\r\n\r\nI agree font licenses
    are necessary. But in their present constitution, they make the product virtually
    unusable for a significant segment of type users. I don't have all that much influence
    in my sector of the market, but when asked, I always recommend against a designer
    using a font from a foundry where the license prohibits a use we all know is likely
    to occur.\r\n\r\nThis is a forum frequented more by type designers than by type
    users. But consider this: with rare exceptions, we do not frame & hang a font
    specimen sheet in a museum. If the licenses stray too far from the conventions
    of using type, both the type designers and the type users are in trouble.\r\n\r\nCharles
    Ellertson\r\n\r\nNote: I made an edit; this post may have originally been made
    before Chris's post."
  created: '2008-03-25 02:32:43'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>I would particularly like to see the user be able to add to the exception
    kerning list while leaving the basic class kerning untouched, and save this in
    the font, not in some external program that always has to be read in.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    think that an external file <em>is</em> the best way to deal with this. This clearly
    separates data as provided by the originator of the file, and the modifications.\r\n\r\nWhat
    would be really great were something like Adobe's SING Glyphlet. This one however
    would not hold outlines, but GPOS/GSUB tables with features, to be used instead
    of same-named features present in the font, or as additional features if not present
    in the font. This would also hold some metadata taken from the font it refers
    to, especially names and version, since the glyphset and thus GIDs to which OT
    layout tables refer may change as fonts get updated.\r\nThe advantage: It is not
    bound to any particular application. The real challenge would be to establish
    something like a standard which then would be adopted by OS and application developers.
    Hello Thomas!\r\n\r\nCan Glyphlets provide <em>substitutes</em> for this or that
    glyph of a specific OT font (rather than additional ones)? This would make it
    much easier for designers to do adjustments to fonts for individual projects --
    without need to mess around with fonts.\r\nMaybe a Glyphlet's metadata could even
    name a Stylistic Set feature by which one Glyphlet file's glyphs are applied.
    Or allow specifying an alternative font name, so font + Glyphlet's alternate glyphs
    are regarded and presented as a separate font/style in the font/style menus.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2008-03-25 06:54:49'
- author:
    name: acnapyx
    picture: 113394
  body: "Leaving the EULA matters aside, eh, if it was that easy to do, as it was
    with Type1, when you could modify/extend the kerning via AFM - and it has precedence
    over the PFM data... The beauty of obsolete font formats!\r\n\r\nBut using external
    file for adding such things to OTF brings additional mess when installing fonts.
    You have to keep the set of related files together, which kills the advantage
    of the single-file OT... "
  created: '2008-03-25 10:12:55'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>But using external file for adding such things to OTF brings additional
    mess when installing fonts. You have to keep the set of related files together,
    which kills the advantage of the single-file OT...</cite>\r\n\r\n'Mess' seems
    too harsh to me. If the additional file is named like the original font, plus
    an extra suffix, both would be sorted next to each other. This wasn't the case
    with many T1 fonts whose PS file and suitcase often had very different file names.
    So, only advantages.&nbsp;&nbsp;:D\r\nNot to forget -- an additional file is better
    that setting up kerning tables in a layout application (XPress) which are then
    bound to this application, and if you migrate from one computer to another you
    better don't forget the according files ... Search this most interesting <a href=\"http://adobe.groupbrowser.com/archive/t-105251.html\"
    target=\"_blank\">discussion</a> for the phrase \"I had a several hundred XPress
    kerning files before I switched to ID\" (near the end, and don't miss the following
    posts).\r\n\r\nThe existence of two files make it very clear that there is the
    original font (Don't touch! EULA!) <em>and</em> there are refinements and additions
    which the typographer thinks are necessary. It's not just two files. It's a message.\r\n\r\n[Later
    addition: Like Glyphlets can be <a href=\"http://www.adobe.com/products/indesign/sing_gaiji.html\"
    target=\"_blank\">embedded</a> in a document, 'Featurelets' might be too.]\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-25 11:41:35'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>The real challenge would be to establish something like a standard
    which then would be adopted by OS and application developers.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes.
    And especially since if the type designers included something like this with their
    fonts (as with .AFMs), they'd likely include it in the EULA.\r\n\r\n<cite>The
    existence of two files make it very clear that there is the original font (Don\u2019t
    touch! EULA!) and there are refinements and additions which the typographer thinks
    are necessary.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf the licensing agreement defeats the purpose of
    a font, it is the source problem. Font developers/foundries need to be protected
    from theft, be that stealing a font for resale under another name, or simply not
    purchasing enough copies for the computers being used.\r\n\r\nI believe that the
    \"no modifications\" rule was aimed at preventing the first; that is, just doing
    a little work on the font & then reselling it. But that is absurd; just ban the
    the reselling of the font, or any *derivatives* from it (if that's the right word).\r\n\r\nThere
    is also the question of damaging the font maker's reputation by some truly awful
    kerning or glyph modification. But these can be done in the applications program,
    too. Sadly, anybody can destroy the look of a font right now, without breaking
    the EULA.\r\n\r\nI look at the kerning that comes with a font as an extension
    of getting the sidebearings right. It isn't the final solution, it is just a nice
    starting point for good character fit. A typesetter can use use it. But a compositor
    (who is also a typographer) can take over and add what makes the fonts work for
    him/her.  "
  created: '2008-03-25 16:34:22'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I should clarify that I am all for users being able to modify kerning of
    their fonts - I just don't think doing it in the original font is practical overall.
    I agree with Karsten and others that this sort of thing is best handled in an
    outboard file of some sort.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-03-25 19:12:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>That is to say that unicode treats lowercase letters like one
    of the family, but lowercase numbers, like an orphan. (everybody! make up names!)</em>\r\n\r\nThere's
    an unfortunate tendency to chastise the people responsible for character encoding
    standards for not understanding how typographers look at text, when that is not
    their task or responsibility. One might as well chastise typographers for not
    understanding how encoded character sets work.\r\n\r\nUnicode is a plain text
    encoding, which means that -- with idiosyncrasies and exceptions to accomodate
    conflicting principles of inclusion, e.g. backwards compatibility with pre-existing
    standards, which is in part responsible for the proliferation of script-specific
    numerals (European, Arabic, Persian, Devanagari, etc.) -- Unicode seeks to encode
    whatever is necessary to preserve the semantic content of text, <em>not</em> everything
    necessary to its display. The display of text is something that happens, as they
    say, at a higher level, for which the text encoding provides a foundation <em>as
    one of the many functions that the text encoding must serve,</em> i.e. it is a
    mistake to assume, just because we are typographers, that the providing for the
    correct typographic display of text is the principle or even one of the most important
    purposes of a character encoding standard.\r\n\r\nNow, the distinction of case
    in our bicameral orthographies frequently carries a semantic distinction, for
    instance in the capitalisation of proper nouns in English and, more dramatically,
    in the capitalisation of all nouns in German. That is semantic information that
    should not be lost in a plain text encoding; ergo, the upper and lowercase letters
    are separately encoded even though in many other ways they are functionally identical,
    notably in representing the same phonemes (from which it should be obvious that
    case distinction is more semantically meaningful for displaying text than it is
    for voice synthesis). We can summarise this by saying that Latin alphabetic letters
    are orthographically bicameral.\r\n\r\nNumerals, on the other hand, are not only
    not orthographically bicameral they are not alphabetic. All numerals are ideographic:
    they do not represent sounds, they represent quantitative and combinatory concepts.
    There is never any semantic distinction between a cap-lining numeral 2 and an
    'oldstyle' numeral 2: they always represent the same semantic content, and ergo
    there is no need to preserve a merely visual distinction between then <em>in plain
    text.</em> There are many good reasons why one would want to preserve a visual
    distinction in various kinds of typeset text, but that is quite rightly considered
    a display issue, not an encoding issue.\r\n\r\nSo the questions regarding how
    font developers, application developers and users might conspire to select appropriate
    styles of numerals for specific documents, and for specific uses within those
    documents, are all questions of layout feature mapping and user interface. The
    situation, for developers and users, is far from perfect -- see the complaints
    I have made in the past regarding Adobe's OT numerals style selection model, which
    precludes having anything other than oldstyle or lining numerals as the default
    style (no three-quarter height or hybrid numerals, for example) because there
    is no way to access the proportional or tabular spacing features independently
    of style selection. But no part of this problem is due to Unicode's sensible encoding
    of a single set of European numerals on the basis of their semantic content."
  created: '2008-03-25 20:54:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "We've had this discussion here before, at which point I argued that it was
    presumptive, and problematic to typography for Unicode to claim the semantic distinction
    of uppercase/lowercase casing as a quality of encoding, rather than leaving it
    to layout.\r\n\r\n<em>that is not their ... responsibility.</em>\r\n\r\nOn the
    contrary, in as much as their actions impact upon typography, they have a responsibility
    towards it.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-25 21:48:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick, you were wrong then and you are wrong now. Once again: case distinction
    has a semantic value in bicameral orthographies <stron>ergo</strong> it needs
    to be maintained at the plain text level. This isn't a negotiable position or
    an opinion, it is a necessary feature of a text encoding that sets out to do what
    Unicode sets out to do. And I just spent several paragraphs explaining why the
    decision to encode a single set of European numerals based on their semantic value
    and not on their appearance does <em>not</em> have an impact on typography: what
    has an impact on typography is what is built on top of that semantic foundation,
    which is display, which is not plain text, which is text layout services, which
    is fonts, and which is ultimately a user interface issue.\r\n\r\nAnd again: <em>it
    is a mistake to assume, just because we are typographers, that the providing for
    the correct typographic display of text is the principle or even one of the most
    important purposes of a character encoding standard.</em> The majority of what
    gets done with the majority of digitally encoded text involves operations in invisibility,
    i.e. the text isn't displayed at all. How much of the billions of 'pages' of text
    indexed by Google ever gets displayed? How often? To how many people? That's just
    one example of something that requires immense material and processing resources
    that is completely text-centric and yet only comparatively rarely involves display
    when, or if, someone wants to search for and read a particular piece of text.
    And that processing is a heck of a lot easier if one doesn't have dozens of encoded
    variants with the same semantic value. So if you want to talk about things on
    which Unicode has a direct impact, you might consider all the things that people
    do with text in addition to displaying it."
  created: '2008-03-25 23:49:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>that processing is a heck of a lot easier if one doesn\u2019t have dozens
    of encoded variants with the same semantic value.</em>\r\n\r\nGoogle searches
    ignore the semantic value of casing. Doesn't this example support non-bicameral
    encoding as being more efficient?"
  created: '2008-03-26 03:59:01'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "David, \r\n\r\nmy glyphname suggestions have a very simple background. The
    OpenType specification offers a well-documented list of four-letter feature tags:
    \r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/featurelist.htm\r\n\r\nIn this
    documentation, the user will be able to find out that \"sups\" stands for Superscript,
    \"smcp\" for Small Caps, \"swsh\" for Swash and \"ss02\" for Stylistic Set 2.
    The user will be able to read the concise descriptions of what those features
    are all about. \r\n\r\nSince this stuff is and will continue to be widely documented,
    why not use those four-letter tags as glyphname suffixes as well? This way, it
    will be clear that \"a.smcp\" stands for an \"smcp\" i.e. small-cap variant of
    \"a\", and \"ampersand.ss02\" stands for a \"ss02\" i.e. stylistic set 2 variant
    of \"ampersand\", that \"copyright.sups\" is the superscript version of the copyright
    sign and \"one.onum_tnum\" is the oldstyle tabular variant of \"one\". \r\n\r\nMoreover,
    smart software should be then able to automatically realize \"Aha! The designer
    has put the ampersand.ss02 glyph in the font so I should build the 'ss02' feature
    code that will map ampersand to ampersand.ss02\". \r\n\r\nThis way, the glyphnames
    can become building recipes for OpenType Layout feature code -- no manual coding
    required. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-26 21:16:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>Doesn\u2019t this example support non-bicameral encoding as being
    more efficient?</em>\r\n\r\nTo clarify. There are two, contentions here. David
    is implying that Unicode should have encoded 'lowercase numerals', and you are
    implying that Unicode should not have encoded the Latin script as bicameral at
    all.\r\n\r\nI cited things like indexing and searching as reasons why it is not
    a good idea to encode multiple variants of things with the same semantics, i.e.
    why encoding 'lowercase numerals' is not a good idea, because there is no semantic
    distinction between a lining 5 and an oldstyle 5 (semantic distinction in the
    context of character encoding meaning specifically semantic distinction <em>that
    needs to be preserved at the plain text level;</em> obviously there are higher
    levels of semantic or quasi-semantic significance that might be made in particular
    use of lining or oldstyle numerals as a function of typographic articulation).\r\n\r\nI
    had already pointed to the <em>fact</em> that upper- and lowercase letters do
    have orthographically determined semantic differences that need to be preserved
    in plain text, and ergo need to be separately encoded. Since this need precedes
    any consideration of things like index and search efficiency, the Google example
    does not have any significance for the character encoding model."
  created: '2008-03-28 02:16:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Adam: <em>Moreover, smart software should be then able to automatically realize
    \u201CAha! The designer has put the ampersand.ss02 glyph in the font so I should
    build the \u2019ss02\u2019 feature code that will map ampersand to ampersand.ss02\u201D.\r\n\r\nThis
    way, the glyphnames can become building recipes for OpenType Layout feature code
    \u2014 no manual coding required.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, although the same functionality
    could be achieved with any other suffix pattern: all you would need is a mapping
    of naming conventions to features.\r\n\r\nSergey has been considering adding a
    similar kind of functionality to VOLT, only in this case as a means of allowing
    the use of wildcards in lookup definitions. So, for instance, one could code the
    entire 'smcp' feature with a single line:\r\n\r\n* -> *.smcp\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-28 02:21:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>you are implying that Unicode should not have encoded the Latin script
    as bicameral at all.</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps there could have been a way of structuring
    Unicode to better accomodate the semantic structure of typography.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-28 05:18:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Perhaps there could have been a way of structuring Unicode to better
    accomodate the semantic structure of typography.</em>\r\n\r\nUnicode is a plain
    text encoding, so its structure is defined by the needs of a plain text encoding
    (along with certain adjustments for backwards compatibility). There are, sometimes,
    more than one way to skin the plain text cat, but I'm not sure any of them 'accomodate
    the semantic structure of typography' better than another. Why? Because the semantic
    structure of typography is hugely variable, much of typography isn't semantic
    at all but aesthetic, and it isn't easy to disentangle the semantic and the aesthetic
    in typography. Can you give me an example, for instance, of a situation in which
    the distinction between lining numerals and oldstyle numerals is properly semantic,
    i.e. where a <em>different meaning</em> is implied? Your phrase 'semantic structure'
    suggests something like a grammar, but while there are multiple articulatory and
    organisational conventions observed within typography, I'm not sure that there
    is anything that functions quite like a grammar. Further, I don't think what is
    typically signaled in those conventions is semantics, properly understood. For
    example, consider the use of a different size and style or weight of type to signal
    a subhead in a document. This is an organisational convention, specific to the
    document but also part of a broader set of conventions for signaling subheads
    that has developed within a particular tradition of publication design. [Note
    also that the concept of a subhead is not typographic, it is editorial; it is
    only signaled typographically.] The typographic treatment of the subhead helps
    to visually articulate the structure of the document. It tells the reader that
    this piece of text is a different kind of information. And this is an important
    job. But it doesn't actually affect the <em>meaning</em> of the text, so I'm not
    inclined to call it semantics. The idea of articulation is, once again, helpful.
    When we speak, how we speak helps a listener to understand our meaning, but this
    is extra-semantic in a linguistic sense. A tone of voice might indicate that we
    are being ironic, and that what we mean is actually the opposite of the words
    we are saying; but that irony itself is resting on top of the actual semantics
    of those words and their organisation: the semantics belong to the words, not
    to how we say them. We can play off the semantics verbally or visually, in speech
    or typography, but only <em>because</em> the semantics are independent of that
    play."
  created: '2008-03-28 20:11:05'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John: \"There\u2019s an unfortunate tendency to chastise the people responsible
    for character encoding standards for not understanding how typographers look at
    text\"\r\n\r\nOh? Thinking only as a user, is why I added to this thread. Normal
    users lack the tendency to chastise the people responsible for character encoding
    standards, only because they have typographers instead.\r\n\r\n\"How much of the
    billions of \u2019pages\u2019 of text indexed by Google ever gets displayed?\"
    \r\n\r\n\"All of it that 'can get' displayed, will be displayed with you in mind,\"
    is the proper answer from a typographer to a user.  Thinking only as a user, if
    text remains invisible, it doesn't matter what it looks like, unless it effects
    my credit rating.\r\n\r\nAdam:\"...why not use those four-letter tags as glyphname
    suffixes as well?\"\r\n\r\nWell, do you see all kinds of goofy abbreviations in
    the menus of applications programs? \r\n\r\nRemember....TNRI09.  Before I was
    even a user thought I, 'they' have to fix this soon. They didn't fix it soon,
    but rather, eventually. And, slowly the evil ninnyhood of that abbreviation system,
    dies away.\r\n\r\nThinking only as a user, I added my voice of concern to the
    four letter names for features being presented to users, and that seems to be,
    by general consent, on the way out the door, in favor of names users can deal
    with, right away, straight from fouder to user, no translation, like font names...\r\n\r\nThinking
    only as a user, I don't want abbreviations for font names, feature names, or glyph
    names, that only connect mentally back to somebody's production solution, showing
    up on my screen. \r\n \r\nSo, no matter how Unicode does \"what Unicode set out
    to do\", it has encoded uppercase and lowercase alphabets, not upper and lowercase
    figures, and driven a wedge into typography that confounds users enough \u2014
    Let's not punish them more by calling them funny names. \r\n\r\nCHRS!\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-29 14:28:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The different typographic ways that the same letter may be displayed comprise
    a semantic system which is used by type designers, font developers, application
    engineers, and graphic designers both professional and amateur.\r\n\r\nThe semantics
    of type are not the same as the semantics of \"plain text\" as it is understood
    by linguists and programmers, who are more at home, and in command of the digital
    system, than typographers.\r\nAs stakeholders, typographers and type designers
    haven't involved themselves much, understandably, because few have the necessary
    skill sets.\r\n\r\nThe way things have been done in the digital era does have
    a certain efficiency, but by blowing off the messy business of typographic semantics
    into the realm of display and \"aesthetics\", it has created huge difficulties
    for the type industry. Here are some examples of the way that linguists and programmers
    have advanced typography, but failed to meet the more discriminating needs of
    typographers, privileging their own conception of what is necessary in text--\r\n\r\n1)
    ASCII encoding: plenty of mathematic symbols, but no \"curly quotes\" or fi and
    fl ligatures.\r\n\r\n2) The 4-member font family: this defines a bicameral concept
    of typographic weight that continues to plague foundries developing multi-weight
    families for cross-platform use. It restricts typographic design in the broad
    arena: a contemporary sans serif like Verdana should have had Thin, Light, and
    Extra Bold weights. With an incremental range of weights, modernist layout is
    possible, but this has been severely discouraged on the internet. Even today,
    the ClearType fonts offer users (both typographers and readers) bicameral weighting,
    not range weighting. This is one hundred years after the introduction of multi-weight
    type families, and fifty years after the famous Univers chart, and after 20 years
    of making digital typography, Microsoft still hasn't caught up and offered users
    this basic feature of modern typography.\r\n\r\n3) Separate Unicode numbers for
    upper and lower case letters. By coding both, things have been made extremely
    complicated for font and application developers, and typographers. Small capitals,
    unicase, figure styles, superiors and inferiors--all these typographically meaningful
    features of sophisticated typography are awkward to twist one's head around when
    there are separate encodings for upper and lower case letters. The result is different
    implementations between different layout applications, and from different foundries,
    which doesn't help advancing the cause.\r\n\r\n4) Looking to the future, I suspect
    that any standards that are adopted for downloadable web fonts will have similar
    difficulties.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-31 01:08:49'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"4) Looking to the future, I suspect that any standards that are adopted
    for downloadable web fonts will have similar difficulties.\"\r\nDo, have. Will
    is the future tense. :)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-03-31 13:02:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Standards always seem to be the carrot on the string, being chased by one
    and all but never attainable.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-31 14:39:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>\u201CAll of it that \u2019can get\u2019 displayed, will be displayed
    with you in mind,\u201D is the proper answer from a typographer to a user.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    completely agree. But the business of providing that display is necessarily something
    that has to happen above the plain text level, i.e. display should be kept as
    much out of the character encoding as possible (but not any further out). And
    I'm not just saying that for the benefit of character encoding and text processing:
    I'm saying it for the sake of display too. It's a church and state matter: the
    separation is intended to be mutually beneficial, not to protect one from the
    other.\r\n\r\n<em>So, no matter how Unicode does \u201Cwhat Unicode set out to
    do\u201D, it has encoded uppercase and lowercase alphabets, not upper and lowercase
    figures, and driven a wedge into typography that confounds users enough</em>\r\n\r\nWhile
    I agree with the analysis of 'oldstyle' numerals as being, structurally, akin
    to lowercase letters, I don't recall ever having seen them referred to as 'lowercase
    numerals' in any book on typography. I don't think this is a wedge that Unicode
    has delivered -- in any case, the unitary encoding of numerals is something that
    predates Unicode by a long time --; I think different numeral styles have been
    poorly analysed for a long time, and poorly analysed by most typographers.\r\n\r\nBut
    it seems very obvious to me that there are two perfectly legitimate ways in which
    to analyse numeral styles, one in which their visual distinctiveness is considered
    significant, and one in which their semantic lack of distinctiveness is considered
    significant. Not surprisingly, in the context of plain text encoding, the lack
    of semantic distinction is the more significant feature, because plain text encoding
    is concerned with semantics."
  created: '2008-04-01 02:05:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>The different typographic ways that the same letter may be displayed
    comprise a semantic system which is used by type designers, font developers, application
    engineers, and graphic designers both professional and amateur.</em>\r\n\r\nAs
    I wrote above: 'Can you give me an example, for instance, of a situation in which
    the distinction between lining numerals and oldstyle numerals is properly semantic,
    i.e. where a different meaning is implied?'\r\n\r\nAs I tried to explain, the
    kind of 'semantics' that can be expressed in typographic variation are semantics
    of information type, as in my subhead example. As I also tried to explain, these
    do not constitute 'a semantic system', because they are too numerous and variable.
    One can say that there are organisational and articulatory conventions, which
    may be systematisable in a variety of ways producing a multiplicity of systems:
    such is the great richness of typography in its many historical and local expressions.
    But the semantic foundation of all typography is linguistic semantics, the semantics
    of words and grammar that constitute text. So it should neither surprise nor dismay
    us that the foundation of computer typography -- in which for the first time the
    semantic content of text and the visual display of text are so closely linked
    -- is likewise the linguistic semantics, i.e. plain text encoding.\r\n\r\nWhat
    <em>should</em> suprise and dismay us is that the controls for manipulating the
    typographic display of text are still so crude, and that anyone thinks these limitations
    can or should be addressed at the character encoding level."
  created: '2008-04-01 02:16:01'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>I don\u2019t recall ever having seen them referred to as \u2019lowercase
    numerals\u2019 in any book on typography.</cite>\r\n\r\nActually, yes, by Paul
    Rand. \r\n\r\nBut this has more to do with when to use them than to suggest they
    are semantically different.\r\n \r\n"
  created: '2008-04-01 03:20:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the semantic foundation of all typography is linguistic semantics</em>\r\n\r\nJohn,
    you've explained very well, many times, that your concept of semantics is linguistically
    centred.\r\n\r\n<em> these [typographic variations] do not constitute \u2019a
    semantic system\u2019, because they are too numerous and variable. </em>\r\n\r\nTypography
    is not a semantic system? That doesn't seem right. The various parts work as a
    whole, and have meaning in relation to one another. They are, to a large and growing
    extent, independent of language and script. \r\n\r\n<em>What should suprise and
    dismay us is that ... anyone thinks these limitations can or should be addressed
    at the character encoding level.</em>\r\n\r\nOne would indeed be foolish to imagine
    that Unicode could be fundamentally modified at this point in time, but one shouldn't
    be detered from contemplating its shortcomings.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-01 04:22:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Can you give me an example, for instance, of a situation in which the
    distinction between lining numerals and oldstyle numerals is properly semantic,
    i.e. where a different meaning is implied?</em>\r\n\r\nJonathon Hoefler designs
    three-quarter lining figures as the default for a news text face (Mercury) because
    he considers old-style figures to be too \"twee\". He makes this meaning quite
    clear to prospective users by including it in his foundry's description of the
    typeface.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-01 04:35:49'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "Semanticity isn't black and white. Everything about every expression of language
    probably has some semanticity to it, if only for the fact of not having chosen
    alternative possibilities. But I think there's a sense in which it's fair to say
    that the difference between \"a\" and \"b\" has more semanticity than the difference
    between \"a\" and \"A\", which has more semanticity than the difference between
    \"a\" and <em>\"a\"</em>, which in turn has more semanticity than the difference
    between a Fournier \"a\" and a Garamond \"a\". The Unicode people have chosen
    to draw the line after the first two in the case of bicameral alphabets. One can
    debate whether that was the right place to draw the line - a strong case could
    be made that capitalization is a stylistic feature whose semanticity is additive
    rather than fundamental to the text - but obviously a line has to be drawn somewhere
    for practical purposes. \r\n\r\nIt does make things look more frustrating, though,
    when the standard isn't internally consistent in applying its own rules. A lot
    of Unicode's shortcomings exist because it really has two different, partially
    incompatible, purposes. It isn't just a plaintext encoding system for all languages;
    it's also intended to unify all the pre-existing encoding standards (and be congruent
    with ISO 10646). As a result, lots of things are in it that shouldn't be according
    to its own criteria, because somebody had encoded them already - like the fi and
    fl ligatures. I suppose the prevailing attitude of trying to do the least damage
    by prioritizing backwards compatibility above adherence to rules is sensible,
    but it does confuse people who think their ligatures - or whatever other presentational
    form that didn't make the cutoff - ought to be encoded too.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-01 05:47:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>it does confuse people who think their ligatures - or whatever other
    presentational form that didn\u2019t make the cutoff - ought to be encoded too.</em>\r\n\r\nEven
    if you're not confused, it's difficult to work with.\r\nHere is the OpenType panel
    in TextEdit, IMO one of the most intelligent OT interfaces.\r\nEven here we are
    left with the mysterious \"No Change\"--an admission that the application doesn't
    know what case the font's default figures are.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LcNc_3454.jpg]\r\nNote
    the clear presentation of typographic semantics; if nothing else, the designer
    has been forced to confront the issue of what exactly is the relationship between
    old-style and lining figures, and has decided that it is casing, which seems to
    make a lot of sense. Sure, we always said, \"old style figures are like lower
    case, with ascenders and descenders,\" but that didn't mean we conceived of lining
    figures as upper case. The impediment was type technologies which more often than
    not had lower case letters married to lining numbers, as default. And in the early
    days of DTP, with SC&osf, it was even stranger, as if old-style figures were primarily
    part of the small cap case. So we are making progress towards a more \"proper\"
    semantics of typography.\r\n\r\nOf course, there are ways other than character
    encoding to assign case to numerals.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-01 06:59:22'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\"Can glyphlets provide *substitutes* for this or that glyph of a specific
    OT font (rather than additional ones)?\"\r\n\r\nYes, they certainly can.\r\n\r\n\"I
    believe that the 'no modifications' rule was aimed at preventing the first; that
    is, just doing a little work on the font & then reselling it.\"\r\n\r\nI don't
    think that is entirely accurate. I think the most common two reasons for the \"no
    modifications\" rule are:\r\n\r\n1) Tech support concerns, not wanting to deal
    with supporting modified fonts. (Adobe deals with this by telling people they
    can make mods, but they're on their own for tech support once they do so. Kind
    of like the computer hack that voids your warranty.)\r\n\r\n2) Simple possessiveness
    around the design, not wanting it messed up by some bozo who doesn't know what
    they're doing. Yes, people can mess it up just in their regular applications,
    but they can do even more damage with a font editor.  :/\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-04-01 20:40:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>John, you\u2019ve explained very well, many times, that your concept
    of semantics is linguistically centred.</em>\r\n\r\nSemantics is a subcategory
    of linguistics, and almost all other uses of the term are derived from this and
    essentially metaphorical, in the same way that many uses of the word 'language'
    are metaphorical, e.g. 'language of painting', 'language of music', etc.. Metaphors
    are useful and important things, but one shouldn't make the mistake of thinking
    that because a metaphor works on one level that it works on all levels or, to
    put it another way, that because something is like language in some respects that
    it is like language in all respects and actually functions like language.\r\n\r\n<em>Jonathon
    Hoefler designs three-quarter lining figures as the default for a news text face
    (Mercury) because he considers old-style figures to be too \u201Ctwee\u201D. He
    makes this meaning quite clear to prospective users by including it in his foundry\u2019s
    description of the typeface.</em>\r\n\r\nI asked for an example of an oldstyle
    numeral meaning something other than a lining numeral; that is, meaning something
    other than e.g. five. That is semantics. Thinking that a particular style of numerals
    is too 'twee' for a particular use is not semantics. That isn't a question of
    meaning but of association and judgement, which may be conventional, subcultural
    or idiosyncratic as the case may be. If I were to disagree with Jonathan's judgement
    of the appropriateness of oldstyle numerals in Mercury, would that imply anything
    at all about the meaning of the numerals? Would 5 suddenly stop meaning five?
    Would 5+5 equal something other than 10? Of course it wouldn't.\r\n\r\nFurther,
    even if one applies a metaphorical use of 'semantics' to include this kind of
    associative judgement, i.e. if one calls this a kind of 'meaning', there is still
    nothing there that would be a proper subject for a plain text character encoding,
    since that kind of 'meaning' is not the kind of meaning that needs to be preserved
    in plain text; indeed, it is the kind of 'meaning' that presumes styled text.
    If one were to determine that there should be an encoding that preserves all the
    possibly associative, emotional, or aesthetic aspects of typography, then the
    distinction between plain text and styled text would be pointless.\r\n\r\n<em>Here
    is the OpenType panel in TextEdit, IMO one of the most intelligent OT interfaces...</em>\r\n\r\nThank
    you, Nick, for demonstrating the point I have been trying to make: this is a user
    interface issue, not an encoding issue. Here's a better radio button interface:\r\n\r\nNUMERAL
    STYLE\r\n[X] Lining*\r\n[ ] Oldstyle\r\n\r\nNUMERAL SPACING\r\n[X] Tabular\r\n[
    ] Proportional\r\n\r\nIn this case, it doesn't matter a rat's arse what numerals
    are the default encoded glyphs in the font cmap, because the numeral style and
    spacing are always controlled by the user. The appropriate OTL features are active
    according to the user settings, and these can be set for all new documents.\r\n\r\n*Lining
    can also mean smallcap lining if such variants are available in the font, since
    the numeral features can be interactive with the smallcap features. You could
    even have petite-cap lining numerals if you wants, and even oldstyle numerals
    ranging around the smallcap or petite-cap heights."
  created: '2008-04-03 06:27:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Semantics is a subcategory of linguistics, and almost all other uses
    of the term are derived from this and essentially metaphorical</em>\r\n\r\nIt's
    true that typography is almost meaningless without text, but it doesn't follow
    that its system of meaning is a metaphor for language. Both sides of the brain
    are used in reading; the side concerned with language is somewhat better organized--or
    perhaps just more conducive to formal exegesis.\r\n\r\n<em>If I were to disagree
    with Jonathan\u2019s judgement of the appropriateness of oldstyle numerals in
    Mercury, would that imply anything at all about the meaning of the numerals? Would
    5 suddenly stop meaning five?</em>\r\n\r\nWhat the disctinction between old-style
    and lining numerals means to typographers has no bearing on the meaning of 5.
    But it is meaning nonetheless, and important to font users, as opposed to readers.
    \r\n\r\n<em>that kind of \u2019meaning\u2019 is not the kind of meaning that needs
    to be preserved in plain text;</em>\r\n\r\nRight, that was agreed earlier in the
    thread. And taking a harder line one may ask, does capitalization belong in plain
    text? A hypothetical question, as it's well ensconced by now, but worth asking
    to remind oneself that what's most logical from a linguistic perspective doesn't
    always make things easy for typography.\r\n\r\n<em>Here\u2019s a better radio
    button interface</em>\r\n\r\nWishful thinking!\r\nThis is actually what it looks
    like when a font is loaded:\r\n\r\nNUMERAL STYLE\r\n[ ] Lining\r\n[ ] Oldstyle\r\n[X]
    No change\r\n\r\nNUMERAL SPACING\r\n[ ] Tabular\r\n[ ] Proportional\r\n[X] No
    change\r\n\r\nBecause, as I noted earlier, how is the application to know what
    the default figure style is? \r\nAlthough it's not coded in the glyphs, couldn't
    a layout application determine the status of the default figures, by noting which
    classes they appear in?"
  created: '2008-04-03 08:41:18'
- author:
    name: Christoph
    picture: 112770
  body: "In Germany capitalization can be very important in plain text, as John already
    mentioned; Even more dramatically in the polite form of address. \r\n\r\nAnd yes,
    I love examples:\r\n\r\n\"Ich kann <strong>s</strong>ie nicht leiden!\" = \"I
    don't like her!\",\r\n\"Ich kann <strong>S</strong>ie nicht leiden!\" = \"I don't
    like you!\""
  created: '2008-04-04 09:24:43'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>I asked for an example of an oldstyle numeral meaning something other
    than a lining numeral; that is, meaning something other than e.g. five. That is
    semantics.</cite>\r\n\r\nLast week, I saw an annual report with such a distinction:\r\nThe
    designer used osf and lf side by side, same font, same size, on the same page/line:
    osf were used for dates (of years etc.) and other text, while the lining figures
    were reserved for figures (i.e. amounts of money). Looked quite good and perspicuous
    (though unfamiliar at first)."
  created: '2008-04-04 12:58:31'
- author:
    name: Christoph
    picture: 112770
  body: Florian, but still 5 means 5, right!?
  created: '2008-04-04 13:27:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "but 5 years is not the same as 5 Euros. It can be a difference of syntax.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-04 15:31:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Florian, that's an interesting example. The style of numeral still doesn't
    affect the semantics of the numeral, but it is used as a unit indicator. The same
    thing could, of course, be done with any other differentiation in styling (bold,
    italic, etc.), and this sort of thing isn't uncommon. It is part of what I call
    organisational or articulatory typography, in this case as an aspect of information
    design. But still the semantics of the numerals themselves are unchanged, and
    this is what plain text encodes.\r\n\r\nNick: <em>And taking a harder line one
    may ask, does capitalization belong in plain text?</em>\r\n\r\nYes, because it
    is semantically important in the linguistic sense in the orthographies of many
    languages. If people only used capital letters in algorithmically determinable
    situations, then one might argue that it would be unnecessary to encode them in
    plain text, but that is not the case: capital letters are used to indicate different
    types of words, and that is important semantic information that needs to be preserved.
    Do you want to tell the Germans that they can't indicate nouns in plain text?
    Do you want to be nick instead of Nick?"
  created: '2008-04-04 21:05:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Christoph, that''s a great German example: a nice case (excuse the pun) of
    capitalisation in the orthography providing more information than the spoken language.'
  created: '2008-04-04 21:07:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>capital letters are used to indicate different types of words, and that
    is important semantic information that needs to be preserved.</em>\r\n\r\nImportant,
    but not fundamental. Germans, for instance, are comfortable with all-cap text.\r\nThe
    way we work at the moment operates in a three-part mode, with plain text, rich
    text, and document-specific text.\r\nAnd now there is XML, which takes textualization
    even further (and is considered a \"language\"!)\r\nGiven these different degrees
    of encoding, might it not have been better, for the system as a whole, and for
    typography in particular, to assign capitalization to rich text? "
  created: '2008-04-04 21:53:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If red colored figures in a table of figures can mean a negative balance
    and black positive, why not the cited example of lining figures for currency and
    oldstyle for dates? It is an indicator of content no matter how you catagorize
    it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-05 00:26:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris, I didn't say that the distinction between numeral styles could not
    be used to indicate different kinds of information, in the same way the colours
    or other styling such as bold and italic may. This is one of the things that typography
    does. But indicating different kinds of information, such as units of quantity,
    doesn't constitute a change in the semantics of the numerals. Now the question
    of positive or negative numbers is an interesting one, since 5 is indeed semantically
    different from -5, so if you represent -5 as 5 in some particular styling, e.g.
    <strong><em>5</em></strong>, to distinguish it from 5, then you are indeed using
    style to indicate a semantic difference. <em>And it is a very dangerous thing
    to do.</em> You better hope that whoever is preparing documents in which negative
    numbers are presented as positive numbers only in red is working from a source
    text in which either those negative numbers are encoded as e.g. -5 or are in some
    way tagged as negative numbers. And you better hope than no one who needs to cite
    that document is cutting and pasting from an electronic version in which the plain
    text distinction between 5 and -5 has been lost.\r\n\r\nUsing numeral style to
    indicate such a semantic difference is much more ambiguous than using colour or
    other stylings, though. How quickly and reliably can you tell the difference between
    an oldstyle 8 and a lining 8 in isolation?"
  created: '2008-04-05 01:18:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>Important, but not fundamental. Germans, for instance, are comfortable
    with all-cap text.</em>\r\n\r\nAll-caps text is anomalous in many orthographies
    -- Greek anyone? --; it is a special case used in exceptional situations, and
    it comes with caveats including the fact that it may obscure information that
    is part of the normal written language and introduce ambiguities of meaning. The
    Germans, like the Greeks, put up with these caveats because they like the look
    of monumental capitals as much as anyone, but like other users of bicameral scripts
    -- excepting some concrete poets, avant-gardists, teenagers and wankers -- what
    they don't want is <em>all-lowercase</em> text."
  created: '2008-04-05 01:24:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Actually John, Germans pioneered the use of all-lowercase text, a style which
    is becoming increasingly used in all kinds of general media perused by a wider
    selection of the population than the \"concrete poets, avant-gardists, teenagers
    and wankers\".\r\n\r\nHere's an example, both inserts in the Thursday paper. The
    similarities of colour scheme, circular devices, and lower-case sans serif made
    me wonder if it was the same company or same agency, but probably just the style
    du jour.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lc_3576.png]"
  created: '2008-04-05 02:44:04'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John: \"...what they don\u2019t want is all-lowercase text.\"\r\nAgreed,
    and it's why I always say, the caps, are the default case. So why is it so easy
    to say 'they' want all uppercase figures? with the bottom line being, if it ain't
    in unicode, it's being phased out. Your and Adam's, (and my) names for our precious
    glyphs, are helping the phase-out process. Future apps are going to have to track
    down the meaning of glyphs, with only the feature tables to guide them, I guess...\r\n\r\n\"But
    it seems very obvious to me that there are two perfectly legitimate ways in which
    to analyse numeral styles...\"\r\nDon't be confused by the many wonderful 'tweeners
    of some kind. These 'tween numbers were, and are often, compromises or following
    compromises, to a fashion statement of 'numerical superiority' and little else.
    Or maybe 'the one legitimate way' to analyze numeral styles's, from the user out.
    Users, want one kind with uppercase, another kind with lowercase, and sometimes,
    they want figures being for themselves and not another case. These narrowed, tabular
    figures, are what most users get barfed on their documents for all cases.  There
    are uppercase figures, lowercase figures, and figure figures, and 'we' should
    pull together on that, and get it to being the 'established typographic fact'
    it is, so that developers can develop to it, and not the confusing Nick/Indesign
    interface, no offence intended. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-11 19:16:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>Germans pioneered the use of all-lowercase text, a style which
    is becoming increasingly used in all kinds of general media perused by a wider
    selection of the population than the \u201Cconcrete poets, avant-gardists, teenagers
    and wankers\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't necessarily exclude the designers of tomorrow
    morning's recycling from the category of wankers. The flood of this stuff now
    washes over consciousness so quickly that individually it doesn't even constitute
    'ephemera' anymore; the air has more substance.\r\n\r\nWhat graphic designers
    do to make a desperate grab for the over-a-hurried-breakfast attention of newspaper
    readers is entirely irrelevant to issues of character encoding. Once again: the
    Latin script is bicameral; the two cases are commonly used in such a way that
    the distinction carries semantics information; this semantic information should
    not be lost in plain text input, storage and interchange; ergo a plain text encoding
    standard needs to encode the case distinction. Numerals, on the other hand, are
    only stylistically bicameral, in that there is no independent semantic difference
    between a lining numeral and an oldstyle numeral; ergo, a plain text encoding
    standard does not need to encode the case distinction, any more than it needs
    to encode the distinction between roman and italic (and don't try citing math
    alphanumeric characters to me, because they do have distinct semantics in the
    orthography of mathematics, which is not the orthography of natural language)."
  created: '2008-04-13 02:29:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "John, once again, the issue I am raising is not what is right or wrong if
    one reduces the complexities to a bicameral duality, but what is useful to typographers.\r\n\r\nFrom
    your ivory tower, you may wish to blow off marketing designers as a bunch of vaporous
    wankers, but they are the people who use the types we make.\r\n\r\nAll-lower-case
    setting is more widespread than in adland; perhaps it is just laziness (which
    is nonetheless a legitimate engine of change), but it may also signify something
    else.\r\n\r\nThe way it stands at the moment, if a designer receives text that
    is set in upper and lower case, and wishes to set it in all lower case style,
    the capitals will need re-keying. As a user interface issue, what do you think
    would be the best way to implement \"all lower case\"?"
  created: '2008-04-14 20:03:51'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>The way it stands at the moment, if a designer receives text that is
    set in upper and lower case, and wishes to set it in all lower case style, the
    capitals will need re-keying. As a user interface issue, what do you think would
    be the best way to implement \u201Call lower case\u201D?</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, no,
    they wouldn't need re-keying, you just need software that does the case conversion
    - or you could use a script or something.\r\n\r\nAs for how one implements it
    in UI, it is a case conversion and should be in the same place as other case conversions
    in the UI. For example, in Adobe InDesign, it is under Type > Change Case > lowercase,
    right next to the UPPERCASE, Title Case and Sentence case options.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-04-15 00:48:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thomas,\r\nI think Nick is just setting a logical snare for John. I am sure
    he knows how to change case :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-15 01:02:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "No, I didn't know you could do that in InDesign.\r\nThat's why I like Typophile,
    I'm always learning things."
  created: '2008-04-15 01:35:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick,\r\nThere are also dozens of littlle text editors out there that can
    change case I use Tex-edit but there are a zillion others.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-15 03:18:09'
- author:
    name: Christoph
    picture: 112770
  body: "<cite>For example, in Adobe InDesign, it is under Type > Change Case > lowercase,
    right next to the UPPERCASE, Title Case and Sentence case options.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhich
    might be useful but also dangerous, since the change of case (and therefore semantics)
    is irreversible. A button similar to the \"TT\"-AllCaps would be desirable, which
    changes appearance without semantics.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-16 07:57:21'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I agree that a full set of formatting options for various cases would be
    a \"nice to have\" feature.\r\n\r\nAs for case change being irreversible, well,
    sure. But you could say the same thing about search and replace. There are all
    sorts of text processing operations that change text.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-04-16 17:39:19'
date: '2008-03-20 21:11:32'
title: Default figures in opentype

---
