---
author:
  name: tamye
  picture: 110562
body: Who&#39;s going, when, how, what&#39;s going on? This is the place to talk about
  it! See you in San Francisco!!!
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Well I&#39;ll be there. I&#39;m flying in on the 19th and flying home on the
    26th. &#40;Barring any unforeseen problems&#41;  <BR> <BR>By the way when you
    call to make your room reservations you must use this number -- 415 3941111 --
    and ask for in house reservations. The 800 number didn&#39;t even know what to
    do with the discount code. &#34;Type what did you say?&#34; hehehe.
  created: '2004-04-24 16:16:59'
- author:
    name: ric
  body: Thanks for the tip, Tiffany.  <BR> <BR>I hope to be there a full week, too.  <BR>
    <BR>Also, I am looking for a roommate for the hotel.
  created: '2004-04-24 23:05:19'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'So WHO is going?? I KNOW it isn&#39;t going to be only Tamye, Eduardo and
    myself! '
  created: '2004-05-28 20:58:09'
- author:
    name: glutton
    picture: 110413
  body: My shortie is due at any time. Wee little Frutiger Garamond Baichtal isn&#39;t
    going to no San Fran.
  created: '2004-05-28 21:18:15'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Awww. That&#39;s too bad!
  created: '2004-05-28 21:26:19'
- author:
    name: ric
  body: Now that TypeCon registration is live, I suppose that more people will be
    posting here, Tiffany. <BR> <BR>:-&#41; <BR> <BR>By the way, the TypeCon site
    looks really great!
  created: '2004-05-29 02:22:43'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: I&#39;m planning on going again&#0151;since I had such a swell time last year.
    Guess I&#39;d better register pretty soon.  <BR> <BR>Being as it&#39;s right in
    the middle of my teaching schedule, I&#39;m probably flying in on Wednesday and
    out on Monday morning. &#40;&#39;Fraid I&#39;m not gonna be at the Nikko though.
    Too rich for my hillbilly blood.&#41;
  created: '2004-05-29 03:21:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Previously we had half-jokingly talked about a font-freak-bus &#40;alternatively
    known as the Bouma Bus :-&#41; that would make its way up from SoCal &#40;maybe
    even Tijuana - Jorge?&#41;, acquiring font freaks &#40;and possibly font decorations&#41;
    on the way up to SF. If that flies, I would be able to start/join from LA Thursday
    morning at 9 AM, and head back Sunday afternoon. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-05-29 21:51:06'
- author:
    name: ric
  body: I&#39;m glad that so many people are posting here now...  <BR>:-D <BR> <BR>I
    am still looking for a roommate. I will be staying 7 days, but of course my roommate
    need not do the same... If you are staying at least 5 days, that would be great.
    7 days? Even better! <BR> <BR>As I stated elsewhere, I am pretty quiet, and pretty
    clean. However, I have been known to snore at times. I don&#39;t smoke, but won&#39;t
    mind if you do.
  created: '2004-06-04 00:53:04'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: '&#62;I have been known to snore  <BR> <BR>Hmmm...if you&#39;re still looking,
    you can email me off the board, Ricardo. I typically room alone because I&#39;m
    told I snore on ocassion, too. Perhaps we can suffer each other. Though I&#39;m
    afraid I will only be there for the 5 days.  <BR> <BR>Also, I&#39;m mostly messy,
    but not so much at hotels &#40;I used to clean them when I was in college&#41;;
    I&#39;m fairly quiet &#40;unless I&#39;m snoring&#41;; and I&#39;m still dumb
    enough to smoke habitually. Fiendishly in fact. <BR> <BR>I found a $50 or $60
    hotel about a block away from the Nikko, but last year I didn&#39;t stay at the
    conference hotel and I felt like I missed out. I&#39;m just a cheap old bastard.'
  created: '2004-06-04 03:26:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; I found a $50 or $60 hotel about a block away from the Nikko <BR> <BR>The
    Adante? That&#39;s about two blocks away, and seems like a good deal. <BR>Then
    there&#39;s the Ramada a block away for $105 a night. <BR> <BR>What gets me is
    the parking fees! Don&#39;t they realize there&#39;s people from LA coming?! <BR>
    <BR>&#62; I&#39;m just a cheap old bastard. <BR> <BR>Two out of three for me.
    My parents were married. Well, as far as they tell me. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-06-04 03:36:09'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: If anyone&#39;s interested, the Olympic and the Mosser were the cheaper hotels
    I found. The Mosser is about 5 blocks away &#40;across Market St&#41;, and the
    Olympic is 140 Mason &#40;the Nikko is 222 Mason&#41;. Might save someone a shekel
    or two.
  created: '2004-06-05 01:34:58'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Hey guys. I&#39;ve attended the last 3 TypeCons and I can say with <BR>confidence
    that those who didn&#39;t stay in the conference hotel <BR>regretted it. Not only
    is it inconvenient, but you miss out on a <BR>lot simply by not being around the
    rest of the attendees as much <BR>as possible. You may save a shekel or two, but
    you&#39;ll not have <BR>the same TypeCon experience.
  created: '2004-06-05 01:46:15'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'For those of you whom are thinking of staying at another hotel be warned
    that you will be missing out. My first TypeCon was last year. I remember a few
    people that thought they&#39;d save some money. They regretted trying to save
    the money. There is a lot happening after hours.  <BR> <BR>Think of it as an investment
    if you really think it is that expensive. '
  created: '2004-06-05 01:46:35'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Tag team!
  created: '2004-06-05 01:48:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'I can dig that, but the Olympic for example is half a block away. <BR>It
    probably takes longer to reach the upper floors of the Nikko.  :-&#41; <BR> <BR>I
    don&#39;t know - I&#39;m torn, mostly between the Nikko, and the Triton: <BR><a
    href="http://dir.travelzoo.com/Lodging.asp?id=150372" target="_blank">http://dir.travelzoo.com/Lodging.asp?id=150372</a>
    <BR><a href="http://www.hoteltriton.com/index.html" target="_blank">http://www.hoteltriton.com/index.html</a>
    <BR>But that&#39;s like 7 blocks away. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-06-05 01:54:33'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'More on the inconvenience factor: shuttle busses will take  <BR>attendees
    from the hotel to the workshop venues. It&#39;s a heckuva <BR>lot less trouble
    to stumble out of bed and down to the shuttle <BR>then try to find the venues
    on your own.'
  created: '2004-06-05 01:55:05'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: Ricardo, Nick Shinn is looking for a roommate, and he will be arriving Wed
    and departing Monday. So could be a match?
  created: '2004-06-05 01:57:23'
- author:
    name: ric
  body: Tamye and Nathan, <BR> <BR>thanks to both of you! I think I&#39;ve already
    found a roommate, but if it doesn&#39;t work out I&#39;ll let you know.
  created: '2004-06-06 18:36:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'The Nikko for me it is. The Triton is too far, and the Olympic makes a lot
    of sense if: you&#39;re staying a week &#40;they have amazing weekly rates&#41;;
    you don&#39;t mind not showering &#40;the really good rates are sans private bathroom&#41;...
    neither of which qualify in my case. <BR> <BR>When will we know Sunday&#39;s program
    contents? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-06-06 18:39:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: BTW, for those who have yet to sign up for a workshop on Thursday afternoon,
    I&#39;ll be helping Jos
  created: '2004-06-09 06:13:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Today&#39;s Hotel News: <BR>King George hotel &#40;three star&#41;, one block
    from the Nikko: $89 a night. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-06-09 22:25:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Forgot: through Expedia. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-06-09 22:33:26'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: The King George doesn&#39;t have air conditioning in the rooms. Not cool &#40;pun
    intended&#41; if the temps are high like they can be in July. It&#39;s also on
    the edge of the Tenderloin, which is not an area I&#39;d like to be stumbling
    around after a few cocktails late at night.
  created: '2004-06-10 00:18:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Plus that rate is for a room with two <i>twin</i> beds &#40;smaller than double&#41;.
    But if it allows somebody to show up for the conference at all &#40;or if somebody
    spends the savings at the auction :-&#41; then it&#39;s an option, no? Preferably
    somebody from a warm, lawless country... Hey, I resemble that remark! <BR> <BR>I
    think the Nikko &#40;$139&#41;, King George &#40;$89&#41; and Olympic &#40;$45&#41;
    nicely cover all the bases, increasing the potential attendance of the conference
    itself. On the other hand, if SoTA has <i>guaranteed</i> filling a certain number
    of rooms and there&#39;s worry about the quota, that&#39;s something to consider.
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-06-10 00:50:17'
- author:
    name: jay
    picture: 110472
  body: I&#39;m trying really hard to make it.  <BR> <BR><b>The Bad News:</b> I lost
    my type-related gig, so I&#39;ll be paying for it myself.  <BR> <BR><b>The Good
    News:</b> the bay area is full of friends and family, so I won&#39;t have to pay
    for room &amp; board. <BR> <BR><b>The Kicker:</b> I&#39;m getting married on the
    31st. I don&#39;t know if I can take a road trip that close to the Big Event.
    <BR> <BR>I suppose it&#39;ll all depend on how the preparations progress, and
    how much &#40;more&#41; they cost. If I do make it, I&#39;ll try not to do my
    wall-flower imitation like I did in Vancouver. <BR> <BR>--Jay <BR>
  created: '2004-06-10 01:07:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; The Kicker .... <BR> <BR>Are you kidding?! That makes an SF trip <i>doubly</i>
    opportune! <BR>My wife went to Jamaica about two weeks before our wedding. <BR>
    <BR>Oh, and congrats! <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-06-10 01:21:17'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: We do have a quota to meet at the Nikko. Guaranteeing hotel rooms &#40;lots
    of them&#41; &#43; the catering for attendees at the hotel &#40;not cheap&#41;
    &#43; the support of our generous sponsors &#40;they are the best&#41; &#43; donations
    of time and services by our incredible speakers and volunteers &#40;they rock
    the hardest&#41; &#43; the NEA grant for special projects &#40;they dig type,
    too!&#41; = low conference registration and workshop fees &#43; peace, love, and
    happiness. <BR> <BR>We strive to offer TypeCon attendees an affordable, high-quality
    hotel in a safe and cool location each year. This is a tall order, considering
    the huge amount of meeting space we need for TypeCon and the low cost of the conference.
    <BR> <BR>By staying at the Nikko, you are supporting SOTA and TypeCon and helping
    to keep the conference affordable. And you can be sure that we have checked out
    the hotel thoroughly, and that it&#39;s a good place! And if someone can&#39;t
    swing the Nikko solo, we help with finding roommates. <BR> <BR>Plus, if you stay
    at the conference hotel, you get to take the SOTA shuttle to the workshops and
    Alphabet Farm instead of finding your own way. Not to mention easier access to
    the muffins in the morning if all you have to do is take the elevator downstairs...
  created: '2004-06-10 02:11:59'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: Jay, congratulations! That&#39;s exciting news. I remember wishing my fiance
    would just go away when we were close to the big day... I know I&#39;m not the
    only bride &#40;or groom&#41; with that thought. If you can make it, we&#39;ll
    be happy to witness your transformation into social butterfly. If you can&#39;t
    get to SF, I hope you&#39;ll join us for TypeCon2005 &#40;maybe as part of a one-year
    anniversary trip with the wife?&#41;.
  created: '2004-06-10 02:21:18'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: So. Last year there was sooooo much talk. Are we just busy?? And who is attending
    the Underware workshop this week?  <BR>
  created: '2004-07-12 18:23:19'
- author:
    name: deh
    picture: 110304
  body: I&#39;m busy packing my serifs.  Last year I forgot and had to walk around
    sans the entire conference.  How embarrassing!
  created: '2004-07-12 20:48:52'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: There are 20 people in the Underware workshop. I just talked to Bas Jacobs,
    and he says it&#39;s going great. Just a little tidbit on the Typeworkshop site
    for &#34;Shut Up and Listen,&#34; at California College of the Arts in SF... keep
    your eyes on this all week and make comments on the work in progress... <BR> <BR><a
    href="http://TypeWorkshop.com/index.php?id1=SanFrancisco_07_2004&amp;id2=shutup"
    target="_blank">http://TypeWorkshop.com/index.php?id1=SanFrancisco_07_2004&amp;id2=shutup</a>
  created: '2004-07-13 03:57:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '<a href="http://www.typophile.com/cgibin/show.pl?30/39827" target="_blank">http://www.typophile.com/cgibin/show.pl?30/39827</a>
    <BR> <BR>I really wanted to drive up, with as many people as possible. But many
    things conspired against it: the high cost of gas &#40;and downtown SF parking!&#41;
    versus flying; the fact that I have to be there in the early afternoon of the
    Thursday; and general apprehension at my offer of relying heavily on my parafovea
    during the furious steak on the 5 North. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-07-17 07:48:04'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: 'As a result of the &#34;Homeland Security&#34; program, all foreigners from
    outside of the &#34;old E.U.&#34; countries must apply for a visitor&#39;s visa
    when coming to the U.S. Since I&#39;m Polish living in Germany, I must apply for
    the visa at the U.S. embassy in Berlin. In order to get a visa, each applicant
    is supposed to call a contract call center &#40;1.86 EUR/minute!&#41; to make
    an appointment at the embassy. Every applicant needs to apear in person for an
    interview, so the appointment is necessary.  <BR> <BR>Due to high workload, the
    call center tells you to make the appointment way in advance, so about four weeks
    ago, I made an appointment for the next possible time -- which turned out to be
    last Monday. Last Monday at 9:30 A.M., I appeared in front of the embassy in Berlin
    but to my great surprise I learned that &#34;I wasn&#39;t on the list.&#34; The
    security guards asked me out &#40;politely&#41; and told me to... call the call
    center. The friendly operator at the call center told me that &#34;my appointment
    wasn&#39;t in the computer&#34;, and that he could not help me. There was no way
    to speak to a visa officer, superior or whoever else, except from the call center
    guy &#40;who just operates the system and takes the appointments&#41; and the
    security guard &#40;who didn&#39;t know anything except that I wasn&#39;t on the
    list&#41;.  <BR> <BR>So, the call center guy suggested that I could make another
    appointment. The next available appointment was... August 26th! Yes, but that&#39;s
    a month _after_ TypeCon, I told him. Well, &#34;Sorry, I can&#39;t help you.&#34;
    &#34;Is there anybody else I can call?&#34; &#34;Sorry.&#34; &#34;And you don&#39;t
    know why my appointment isn&#39;t in your computer.&#34; &#34;No, sorry.&#34;  <BR>
    <BR>He actually sounded like he was sorry, I talked to him for some 15 or 20 minutes
    altogether. At 1.86 EUR/minute.  <BR> <BR>After having heard that my next appointment
    was to be August 26th, I decided to make some noise. I sent a couple of faxes
    to the U.S. embassy fax number &#40;normally reserved as &#34;American Citizes
    Services&#34; only&#41;. I described the entire situation, pointed out that there
    must have been a mistake, that I&#39;m a speaker at the conference etc. etc. In
    addition, a few good people, including SoTA Executive Director Tamye Riggs, SoTA
    Chairman Richard Kegler, my colleague Ted Harrison from Fontlab Ltd., and quite
    a few other friends from font companies &#40;big and small&#41; have sent supportive
    faxes to the embassy, pointing out how &#34;important&#34; I was to have at the
    conference etc. Thank you guys for that support!!!  <BR> <BR>After the overwhelming
    number of faxes, the U.S. embassy in Berlin apparently felt obliged to contact
    me per e-mail and give me a reply. So on Wednesday, I got this warm and friendly
    reply:  <BR> <BR>&#34;Dear Mr. Twardoch:  <BR>Thank you for your faxes.  Due to
    the summer travel season, our visa waiting room is currently booked through mid-August
    at the maximum capacity allowed by our Embassy security officer.  There are no
    earlier appointments available at this time.  Please call our contract call center
    at 0190-85-00-55 and book the next available appointment. <BR>Sincerely,  <BR>Visa
    Unit&#34;  <BR> <BR>That&#39;s very sincere indeed.  <BR> <BR>For those interested:
    I could have theoretically made the appointment three months ago or so, not 4
    weeks ago. This way, I would probably have gotten a second chance for an appointment
    before TypeCon. Unfortunately, my old passport just expired. I had applied for
    a new passport already last year &#40;2003&#41; but did not receive it until two
    weeks ago. In Poland, we now have to wait 6 months or so for the new passport
    being printed. We have a new passport design and now, everything, including your
    photo and name etc. is being offset-printed with some fancy hi-tech ink, in Warsaw.
    So your entire passport actually is being &#34;manufactured&#34; for you. A fascinating
    process for print lovers, no doubt, but not really as fascinating when you have
    to wait for a half a year to get the thing. When you apply for a U.S. visa, your
    passport must be valid for another 6 months, so I had to wait for my new passport
    and only could apply after I got it. Also after I got my passport, I had to get
    my German residence permit renewed at the appropriate German office. So altogether,
    last Monday was actually as early as I could get, and since it didn&#39;t work
    out for some mysterious reason, I didn&#39;t get my second chance except August
    26th. Great.  <BR> <BR>This taught me a few things: &#40;1&#41; I should apply
    for a new passport at least a year before my current passport&#39;s expiration
    date. &#40;2&#41; I should apply for a U.S. visa three months before planning
    to go there. &#40;3&#41; With the current U.S. visa policy, TypeCon conferences
    won&#39;t be able to attract many international visitors if the conferences are
    be held in the U.S. &#40;4&#41; I actually learned a few more things but I won&#39;t
    announce them publicly ;&#41;  <BR> <BR>I really wish I were allowed to go to
    TypeCon. I had made all travel arrangements etc. Fortunately, I was able to cancel
    my flight with a penalty that wasn&#39;t excessive. But that&#39;s not so important.  <BR>
    <BR>I really wanted to go to TypeCon because I think it will be a great conference.
    I was truly looking forward to it, and I really envy those of you who will be
    there. I wish you a lot of fun. Make sure that you enjoy that conference, especially
    that you _are_ able to participate!  <BR> <BR>For all those who signed up for
    the FontLab workshop: Ted Harrison will be at TypeCon, and we are working on a
    solution that will enable me to join you over the Net.  <BR> <BR>Best greetings,  <BR>Adam  <BR>'
  created: '2004-07-17 22:04:00'
- author:
    name: jfp
    picture: 110395
  body: So diszpointing story Adam. Quelle merde! <BR>Seems there is nothing to say
    more sadly. <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#40;PS. I have done a new passport myself because
    several trips this years, but it take me around 2 weeks and the passport follow
    new international rules concerning security documents such as you describe.&#41;
  created: '2004-07-17 22:30:56'
- author:
    name: yar
  body: I was not planning to go to TypeCon this year but when Adam faced all these
    problems I tried to get a visa myself here in St.Petersburg.  <BR> <BR>No luck,
    next available appoinment is after the conference. Should I say that it takes
    only two days to get Canadian visa &#40;process also includes appointment and
    interview&#41;? :-&#41; <BR> <BR>So see you all in Prague!
  created: '2004-07-17 22:55:58'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: What a bummer. I&#39;m so sorry that you were hosed by the system, and that
    our faxed letter didn&#39;t help. We&#39;ll see you in Prague! <BR> <BR>Interesting
    to know that the US considers Poles more dangerous than, say, the French. Of course,
    this is the same country that after 9/11 started rounding up people from the Middle
    East and left out Saudis, because Saudis are America&#39;s friends. &#40;Yes,
    the 9/11 terrorists were 95% Saudi citizens. Not that this means that Saudis should
    be picked on, but it demonstrates the bizarre political logic of the administration.&#41;
    <BR> <BR>Cheers, <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-07-17 23:02:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Wow, Adam. That&#39;s really crappy. Well, at least you got a personalized
    letter.  :-/ <BR> <BR>BTW, you should see what they did with my mother and father&#39;s
    greencard renewal: they switched their photos. It took 2 years &#40;with a lawyer&#41;
    to fix. But I guess giving a visa to a Sept-11 hijacker shortly after the attack
    was even worse. And Thomas, don&#39;t blame Saudis, try your neighbors. <BR> <BR>Welcome
    to the new world order, people. <BR>Where money and democracy will [dis]solve
    everything. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-07-17 23:09:37'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: As usual, Hrant manages to mis-interpret me as having said something I never
    said. Sigh. <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-07-17 23:17:24'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: '[ Hrant,  <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t think Tom ever blamed the Saudis for something.
    ] <BR> <BR>Other than that, I must say that a few months ago, in Poland, we had
    a discussion along the lines: how come that Poland is supporting the U.S. war
    in Iraq and the Americans still require visas for Polish citizens? I found and
    still find this sort of argumentation ridiculous &#40;bringing it down to a &#34;deal&#34;&#41;,
    but that was reality in our Polish media.  <BR> <BR>I also actually do realize
    and acknowledge that a country such as the U.S. may want to set up any sorts of
    rules, including taking people&#39;s fingerprints and requiring every applicant
    to apply for a visa in person.  <BR> <BR>However, what I don&#39;t understand
    and what annoys me is that if one blows up bureaucratic procedures to the extent
    as it is now with the U.S. visas, one should create bureaucratic capacities to
    accomodate for the procedures.  <BR> <BR>Just like 4 years ago, German citizens
    going for a trip longer than 3 months, students, workers and non-old-E.U. foreigners
    are required to apply for a visa. However, 4 years ago, only very few people were
    asked for a personal interview and most visas were issued per post. A year ago,
    a large number of the applicants were required to appear in person, but people
    who already had previous visas that recently expired, and a large number of other
    cases were still allowed to apply per post. Now, everybody is required to appear
    for a personal interview.  <BR> <BR>However, the capacity of the U.S. embassy
    in Berlin remains the same. Therefore, everything takes much more time now than
    it used to before. There is no option for expedited processing &#40;even with
    an additional fee&#41;, there is no &#34;backup&#34; option or a hotline for special
    cases.  <BR> <BR>With the effective necessity of making an appointment 6 weeks
    in advance &#40;July 12--August 26, that&#39;s really 6 weeks!&#41;, plus some
    more advance for the case something goes wrong, and some additional advance for
    the actual visa application processing &#40;they say 10 working days&#41;, you
    end up having to plan every trip 3 months in advance. This effectively eliminates
    a large number of business travels or spontaneous touristic trips.  <BR> <BR>While
    I have to apply for a visa since I&#39;m Polish, note that even &#34;old E.U.&#34;
    citizens aren&#39;t quite safe. They don&#39;t need a visa upfront, but in the
    past few months the German news reported of several cases when business people,
    classical orchestra musicians and even some known German actors were refused entry
    to the U.S. _at the destination airport_. This means that they after the long
    and exhausting flight from Europe to the U.S. they had to buy an immediate return
    ticket and take the next available machine to fly back to Europe. I think I don&#39;t
    need to say more.  <BR> <BR>Germany is known for their bureaucracy. This is true
    -- there&#39;s a lot of it where I live now. But these guys here at least know
    how to run a bureaucratic machine...  <BR> <BR>Oh, no need to mention that the
    U.S. embassy intends to keep my visa application fee of 86 EUR &#40;roughly $100&#41;
    that I had to pay upfront, despite the fact that my application wasn&#39;t actually
    even received. A yet another way to fund government spending. ;&#41;  <BR> <BR>Best,  <BR>Adam
    <BR>'
  created: '2004-07-17 23:43:08'
- author:
    name: eomine
    picture: 110361
  body: 'Hmm. I&#39;m going to Typecon &#40;arriving Wednesday, leaving Saturday morning&#41;.
    <BR> <BR>&#62; &#40;3&#41; With the current U.S. visa policy, TypeCon  <BR>&#62;
    conferences won&#39;t be able to attract many  <BR>&#62; international visitors
    if the conferences are  <BR>&#62; be held in the U.S.  <BR> <BR>True. <BR> <BR>&#42;
    &#42; &#42; <BR> <BR>BTW, a practical question: are the vendors &#40;I&#39;m specially
    interested in the books&#41; at Typecon going to accept credit cards?'
  created: '2004-07-17 23:44:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: '&#62; are the vendors &#40;I&#39;m specially interested in the books&#41;
    at Typecon going to accept credit cards? <BR> <BR>as I recall most didn&#39;t
    last year. But they seem to be a flexible, friendly bunch and I&#39;m sure if
    you had a chat with them on day 1, they&#39;d be able to work something out before
    then end of conference. <BR> <BR> '
  created: '2004-07-18 17:26:18'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: It is incredibly disappointing what has happened to Adam. He&#39;s a very
    important part of the community, and we will all miss him at TypeCon. Many of
    us faxed urgent letters to the US consulate in Berlin in an attempt to plead Adam&#39;s
    case, but to no avail. The consulate faxed a letter back to me stating sternly
    that they could not discuss anyone&#39;s application. I hadn&#39;t asked for information
    from them, just offered support for Adam&#39;s request for the appointment that
    he was already entitled to but for some technical screwup. <BR> <BR>They also
    said they are terribly busy with vacation visa requests and all that. Naturally,
    a speaker traveling to an international conference funded in part by a US government
    arts agency doesn&#39;t take priority over someone&#39;s summer holiday! <BR>
    <BR>On the other hand, several speakers from Brazil and other countries outside
    the US received visas within a few days of receiving our letters of invitation.
    Why does it have to be so hard for our friends in other nations??? <BR> <BR>TypeCon
    attendees are predominantly North American because of geography and economics.
    But our conference is quite inexpensive, and with the weak dollar lately, it is
    certainly more affordable to travel here from Europe, SA, etc. <BR> <BR>More international
    attendees come each year, and we certainly hope to continue that growth. We will
    continue to do all we can to bring more people from outside the US. I hope that
    things with our govmt and especially state dept will get better in the future,
    so we don&#39;t have disasters like Adam has experienced. <BR> <BR>As for the
    market at the &#39;con, yes, most of the sellers will take credit cards, and they
    are again a friendly bunch. Lots of type and design books &#40;new and antique&#41;,
    movie marquee letters, typewriter key jewelry, psychedelic posters... and for
    those of you wondering, Jan Middendorp has brought quite a few copies of his fabulolus
    &#34;Dutch Type,&#34; which has sold out of many bookstores in the US.
  created: '2004-07-19 08:24:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; doesn&#39;t take priority over someone&#39;s summer holiday!  <BR>
    <BR>Question: Who is more likely to spend more money during the trip to the US?
    <BR> <BR>Do you know about the $200 electronic devices the US sells to Mexicans
    desperate to reduce the wait to cross the border? <BR> <BR>&#62; international
    <BR> <BR>It&#39;s just hard to be that in the US.  :-/ <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>I
    personally don&#39;t expect TypeCon to be staged outside the US for a few more
    years. And I&#39;m sure there are some people who hope that never happens. But
    at some point it will be good for the conference. And I think the first overseas
    jump should be South America &#40;where I think even ATypI has never been&#41;.
    Buenos Aires? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-07-19 17:45:34'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Hi Hrant,  <BR> <BR>TypeCon did take place in Toronto a few years back - so
    it&#39;s not completely US-centric. I&#39;m one of those &#40;a majority on the
    current board&#41; within SoTA arguing for the annual conference to remain an
    event hosted within the Americas. I think this is the best way to keep the event
    affordable and accessible to our base. <BR> <BR>Si
  created: '2004-07-19 20:47:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; within the Americas. <BR> <BR>Hmmm. Is that ambiguous on purpose?  :-&#62;
    <BR> <BR>I actually agree that the time is not right to take it outside of North
    America &#40;including places like Tijuana however&#41;. Nonetheless I hope it
    grows in certain ways to make overseas conferences a good idea eventually, maybe
    even &#34;soon&#34;. <BR> <BR>BTW, I do grasp the need to be different than ATypI.
    But geography isn&#39;t the only way. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-07-19 21:20:01'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: Rather than take the bus back to SF and public transit at 2 am to Sacramento
    &#40;I&#39;m at Typecon sans automobile&#41;, is anyone driving back to Sacramento
    after the shindig at Stone&#39;s place on Sunday? If so - see me! I&#39;m staying
    at the Nikko.
  created: '2004-07-20 19:59:33'
date: '2004-04-19 12:05:56'
node_type: forum
title: TypeCon2004 Talk

---
