---
author:
  name: typetard
body: "Hi came across this today, the price difference is significant, unless I am
  very mistaken it is the same font (as in release?). Not trying point wrong here
  as I purchase from both sites. Just thought recommended retail would be appropriate.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/thaddeus/sans-original/\r\n\r\nvs\r\n\r\nhttp://www.veer.com/products/typedetail.aspx?image=UMT0000323&WT.ac=type.080301.1.img.sansoriginal\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Pays to shop around I guess.
  created: '2008-03-21 02:39:34'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Now I understand how Veer can afford all the promo pieces and freebies.
  created: '2008-03-21 02:57:44'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: If it was a difference of 5 bucks, I could understand, but 15 and 49 !?
  created: '2008-03-21 16:56:43'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: Someone needs to come up with something like <a href="http://www.pricegrabber.com/">PriceGrabber</a>
    for fonts, with user reviews, typesetting samples, font version description, and
    so on. (You heard it first here on Typophile!)
  created: '2008-03-21 16:58:48'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: $15 and 49 is a difference. Just how would you call $75 vs. $280 for one font...
  created: '2008-03-21 23:06:59'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: What exactly are you referring to, lorem?
  created: '2008-03-21 23:11:56'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: What I always wonder about is if kerning or functionality is updated and how
    or if versions vary between vendors.
  created: '2008-03-22 04:30:11'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: "Nice call, I too wonder if different vendors supply differently produced
    fonts.... like from Myfonts, Veer, Fontshop or the foundry or the designer...
    \r\n\r\nQUESTION: is there a difference from supplying font vendors of the same
    font?\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-24 07:58:33'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "It looks like the same type and it has the same name - but it appears to
    be two different versions.\r\n\r\nThe one that myfonts.com is \xA9 Thaddeus Typographic
    Center while the one from veer.com is \xA9 Veer --\r\n\r\nSince I don't own them,
    I cannot compare them to see if they were drawn the same or differently   -- but
    both sites are respectable and therefore both fonts should be fine with kerning,
    drawing, etc.\r\n\r\nHuge difference though. And now I can't wait for Lorem to
    get back to us about the 75 <em>vs</em> 280 font."
  created: '2008-03-24 10:58:27'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>while the one from veer.com is \xA9 Veer</cite>\r\nNo, on Veer it\u2019s
    <a href=\"http://www.veer.com/products/typedetail.aspx?image=UMT0000323&WT.ac=type.080301.1.img.sansoriginal#about\">\u2018Copyright
    \xA9 Thaddeus Typographic Center\u2019</a>, too. This is the same font, I bet
    you."
  created: '2008-03-24 11:19:50'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: "Corporate A OpenType Plus\r\n\r\n$75 MyFonts\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/urw/corporate-a/regular/opentype-ps/302728/\r\n\r\n$150
    FontShop\r\nhttp://www.fontshop.com/fonts/singles/urw/corporate_a_regular_ot_plus/\r\n\r\n$240
    Monotype (fonts.com)\r\nhttp://www.fonts.com/findfonts/detail.htm?pid=44614&grab_id=0&page_id=28269&query=corporate%20a%20plus&SCOPE=Fonts\r\n\r\n\u20AC180
    ($280)\r\nDirectly from its maker, URW.\r\nhttp://www.urwpp.de/cgi-bin1/dalcgi/source/schnellsuche.htd?searchchar=corporate+a+regular"
  created: '2008-03-24 16:12:27'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: I'd say these two products (Sans Original and URW Corporate fonts) are extreme
    examples. The vast majority of font products on the market don't vary in price
    more than 15%.
  created: '2008-03-24 16:57:14'
- author:
    name: nana
    picture: 114558
  body: 'This is very, very interesting. I''m wondering if the original designer/foundry
    make the same amount of money whether it is sold for $75 or $240 (i.e., is it
    just the gap in the profit margin for the distributor?). '
  created: '2008-03-24 19:00:09'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: I have no problem with different font prices. Be a good shopper and remember
    if you want something like Avant Garde Alts by Eisner + Flake the charters are
    drawn differently from the Adobe verison of the same font. So what. buy the Eisner
    + Flake verision.
  created: '2008-03-24 21:45:19'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: I have no problem with different font prices. Be a good shopper and remember
    if you want something like Avant Garde Alts by Eisner + Flake the charters are
    drawn differently from the Adobe verison of the same font. So what. buy the Eisner
    + Flake verision.
  created: '2008-03-24 21:45:23'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "It\u2019s not about differing versions of one <em>typeface</em>, but about
    identical <em>fonts</em>, offered by different distributors."
  created: '2008-03-24 21:51:40'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "nana - it depends on the foundry/vendor. I am pretty sure Veer gives Thaddeus
    a similar cut as other retailers (MyFonts is an exception at 65%). It's a direct
    relationship: designer to retailer. \r\n\r\nBut some foundries give back less
    as the font makes its way through the reseller chain. A font can be sub-licensed
    twice before its sold on the retail market, giving the designer a smaller share
    of the retail price.\r\n\r\nThe <a href=\"http://www.fontfont.com/about/become.ep\">FontFont
    contract</a> is more fair in that regard. FSI pays a designer's royalty of 20%
    of the recommended retail price of each package sold worldwide. This is equivalent
    to 45% - 50% of the wholesale price of the font, regardless of where it is sold."
  created: '2008-03-24 22:55:31'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: "I recommend ITC Avant Garde Gothic Std (OT) from Linotype (via Font Explorer
    X) my reason:\r\n\r\nI purchased the FontShop Elsner+Flake Avant Garde Gothic
    and the matching alternates (ALT) after speaking to Fontshop as the EF alternates
    do differ from the Adobe and Linotype... only to find later Linotype (via FontExplorer
    X) Avant Garde Gothic (opentype) included the alternates for a lot less than the
    FontShop Elsner+Flake Avant Garde Gothic postscript... if comparing... only if
    comparing. Should have researched this one more I guess\r\n\r\nNow... I research
    all typefaces to see if I can get options or the family, formats like OT, and
    bells and whistles (or a t-shirt at least)\r\n\r\nBuying fonts is an addiction
    NOW! replacing the vinyl (music) addiction...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-24 23:08:19'
- author:
    name: nana
    picture: 114558
  body: "Thanks so much, Stephen, for your response. Interesting. I suppose it's a
    little bit like licensing photography for usage.\r\n\r\nPS: I love typographica.org!"
  created: '2008-03-25 00:56:14'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: "wow here is another... from Thaddeus\r\nhttp://www.veer.com/products/typedetail.aspx?image=UMT0000324&WT.ac=type.080301.1.img.ontheline\r\n\r\nvs\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/thaddeus/on-the-line/\r\n\r\n$15
    vs $49 ... now is this because the designer is now with Umbrella (margin 1) who
    is on Veer (margin 2)?\r\nThis is a little rough really, what is the incentive
    to buy from Veer... if you were buying 10 licences or all of Thaddeus' fonts then
    the savings would be huge by going to MyFonts, infact the saving are huge just
    with the one font, I could buy a glass of pinot noir to celebrate myfonts cheaper
    purchase and even buy lunch. Is there a recommended retail that should be applicable
    here? \r\n\r\nThough it is quite cheap on MyFonts... $15 is a lean price?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-27 12:58:59'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> Umbrella (margin 1) who is on Veer (margin 2)\r\n\r\nNo, Umbrella <em>is</em>
    Veer. It's simply a brand name. A label."
  created: '2008-03-27 17:02:48'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: thanks. If comparing other designers/foundry fonts on Veer who too are not
    exclusive and are on others like MyFonts, Fontshop or their own site the prices
    'mostly' are the same price unless Euro or Pounds etc then for me it is better
    to get from Veer or Myfonts, or Fontshop (AUD)...in this case I would purchase
    from MyFonts.. also as I cannot get the merchandise from Veer (as per other post)
  created: '2008-03-27 20:23:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I have usually found prices to be similar wherever a typeface is available.
    The difference is the percentage of the retial price the designer gets. I am all
    for the designer getting the lion's share.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-27 20:30:34'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: Same... if possible I try to buy from their site, though sometimes it is good
    to do a bundle of assorted designers fonts in one hit...?
  created: '2008-03-27 21:29:33'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "In my life, I've met so many talented designers without money that it slowly
    drove me to globally consider typefaces'price way too high, especially on Veer.
    There should be a \"student\" price on each and every type in the world, such
    as 5 or 10 bucks, the same thing which is happening with softwares. A student
    can never afford most of the good, modern, independent types, and that's a pity,
    he needs a lot of them to practice, so he has to steal them, everybody knows that.
    Once he gets pro, once he has a deal with a customer, he then buys the license,
    and everybody is happy. Instead of finding a correct and honest solution, I constantly
    hear type designers whining about type thieves, this is really pathetic. \r\n\r\nuh
    sorry I guess I was slightly off-topic here.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-03-28 08:51:49'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>In my life, I\u2019ve met so many talented designers without money</em>\r\n\r\nWhat
    about type designers? I don't think many of them make tons of money with it. So
    lowering the price wouldn't make sense from that point of view..."
  created: '2008-03-28 12:08:42'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Quincux, I didnt say to lower the price, I suggested to make a system with
    2 prices, one low for the student and the non-pro, and another one, higher, for
    the pro. Read me again.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-03-28 12:55:45'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "> <em>I suggested to make a system with 2 prices, one low for the student
    and the non-pro, and another one, higher, for the pro. </em>\r\n\r\nSounds like
    making a lower price to me!\r\n\r\nActually, though, I'm completely in favor of
    two separate prices. This is not a problem for many in the font business at all.
    The problems are the nebulous questions around the lower, student price:\r\n\r\n1.
    Do you really think that lowering font prices to $5 or even $1 would stop, or
    significantly reduce, student font piracy? I mean, if students have no money,
    then they have no money. You can't afford $5 licenses without money. If students
    feel \"entitled\" to free software apps and fonts\u2014which many do\u2014pricing
    will not change their habits.\r\n\r\n2. Does the license expire once the student
    is no longer a student? I have purchased some academic software licenses were
    this was the case, and some were it wasn't. If a font's license expires along
    with student status, there is no way to control the actions afterwards\u2026 people
    probably won't delete the files and buy new, non-student licenses for all the
    fonts they got as students. Maybe for the few they like best. Ideally, they'd
    stop using all of the fonts they don't upgrade, but this requires a lot of trust."
  created: '2008-03-28 13:06:20'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Dan, today you agree with me: that's crazy! Makes me happy, I've been waiting
    for this moment for a long time.\r\n\r\n1: yes, I think it would reduce the piracy.
    I don't know about the other countries, but a student with no money in France
    (I can talk only about what I know best, and I've been a teacher in French art
    schools) would probably get more fonts in a legal way. Here, I'm talking about
    students who have been awakened to the beautiful art of typography, students who
    met typographers, students who know that there is a man behind each type, so I
    guess it relies a lot on education as well. I know it's impossible to stop piracy,
    but maybe we could find at least a more fair way to educate students and give
    them the possibility to test and use beautiful designs without being ashamed of
    stealing something.\r\n\r\n2: about this license thing, actually maybe the solution
    is not to make a \"student\" license, but a \"non commercial\" license. Don't
    you think it would be great if some guy at home uses, for 5 dollars, a type such
    as Fedra or FF Meta Serif on an invitation for his sister's wedding, send it to
    a lot of people including a graphic designer who's gonna enjoy the type, buy it
    and use it on a professional job? Types will spread, beauty will rule, money will
    flow and happiness will conquer all.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-03-28 13:28:29'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Dan, today you agree with me: that's crazy! Makes me happy, I've been waiting
    for this moment for a long time.\r\n\r\n1: yes, I think it would reduce the piracy.
    I don't know about the other countries, but a student with no money in France
    (I can talk only about what I know best, and I've been a teacher in French art
    schools) would probably get more fonts in a legal way. Here, I'm talking about
    students who have been awakened to the beautiful art of typography, students who
    met typographers, students who know that there is a man behind each type, so I
    guess it relies a lot on education as well. I know it's impossible to stop piracy,
    but maybe we could find at least a more fair way to educate students and give
    them the possibility to test and use beautiful designs without being ashamed of
    stealing something.\r\n\r\n2: about this license thing, actually maybe the solution
    is not to make a \"student\" license, but a \"non commercial\" license. Don't
    you think it would be great if some guy at home uses, for 5 dollars, a type such
    as Fedra or FF Meta Serif on an invitation for his sister's wedding, send it to
    a lot of people including a graphic designer who's gonna enjoy the type, buy it
    and use it on a professional job? Types will spread, beauty will rule, money will
    flow and happiness will conquer all.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-03-28 13:28:46'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "David, I've discussed these problems quite often with my colleagues. Here
    are our stumbling blocks: \r\n\r\n> <em>I\u2019m talking about students who have
    been awakened to the beautiful art of typography, students who met typographers,
    students who know that there is a man behind each type</em>\r\n\r\nThese students
    are not the problem. If a student gets this interested in type, he or she is already
    almost, if not already, part of the choir we are preaching to. Also, when these
    students e-mail the foundry in question, or the designer, they may be able to
    work out an agreement. I know many big foundries and small designers who give
    fonts to students for specific projects. But the contact has to be initiated here
    by the student, and there has to be a discussion. This creates a small rapport
    and trust, too. I love getting e-mails from dedicated students, and always do
    my best to help. I can't always give them what they are asking for, but a solution
    is often available once I understand what they or their professors really need.\r\n\r\nA
    student font license would not be made for this group, but for the much bigger
    block of \"all-the-other-students-in-the-world-who-use-fonts.\" This is a very
    different group of people. They don't meet the criteria you discuss above. Nevertheless,
    they are students, and I do think that they should be met halfway, as long as
    it remains doable. It unfortunately isn't something that is doable for everyone.\r\n\r\n>
    <em>not to make a \u201Cstudent\u201D license, but a \u201Cnon commercial\u201D
    license. Don\u2019t you think it would be great if some guy at home uses, for
    5 dollars, a type such as Fedra or FF Meta Serif on an invitation for his sister\u2019s
    wedding</em>\r\n\r\nActually, many of my colleagues and I really do not like this
    idea at all. The problem is that \"non commercial users\" are really difficult
    to define. One can assume that quite many of the design students will become real
    professional designers in the future. Maybe more will than won't. OK. But many
    people who \"fall in love with type\" in the \"adult\" world might decide to become
    DTP professionals, or something similar. Who knows? Then they'd need font upgrades.
    Would they buys them? I don't know. This requires some more thought\u2026 Also,
    some designers might buy fonts for non commercial purposes, too\u2026 like their
    sister's wedding invite or such. Moreover, many of my customers who I'd call \"non-professional\"
    might actually think of themselves as professionals. This isn't for me to decide,
    but for them! It is their identity\u2026 I can't determine it for them.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-28 13:43:59'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: One thing about a low price for a student is that it will teach the foolish
    student that type is not valuable. You might find a policy like this increases
    the proliferation of pirate copies. I could see five dollar fonts multiplying
    like roaches in a university system that didn't have a strong policy.
  created: '2008-03-28 13:46:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Types will spread, beauty will rule, money will flow and happiness will
    conquer all.\"\r\n\r\nTypes will spread but not in a good way. There are plenty
    of students who would honor the student liscence but enough would just assume
    after graduation that they can use the type in a commercial way and just \"forget\"
    to pay the also underpaid type designer. Money will flow to pirates, not to type
    designers. David, it is easy to think of type designers as big foundries like
    Adobe and Linotype thereby assuming they are all huge corporations with piles
    of money but this is not the case. Most type designers live a quite modest life
    and work out of a small corner of their home or apartment. They don't have financial
    support from their parents as students do and they have children of their own
    to support and send through college. How would you feel if type designers asked
    design students to send them half the money they spend on beer so that they may
    make beautiful type so that beauty could rule and happiness could conquer all?
    The type designers would then promise to send back half the beer money just as
    soon as the new types they designed had made large sums of money for them but
    of course there would be no way to verify this and the students would just have
    to assume that the flow of happiness caused honesty to flow as well.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-28 13:59:30'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Do you really think that lowering font prices to $5 or even $1 would
    stop, or significantly reduce, student font piracy? I mean, if students have no
    money, then they have no money. You can\u2019t afford $5 licenses without money</cite>\r\n\r\nThere\u2019s
    a pretty big difference between $5 and $20 or $50. Broke design students can cough
    up $20 to get four weights they only want to use once. They often can\u2019t cough
    up $80, much less $200.\r\n\r\n<cite>If a font\u2019s license expires along with
    student status, there is no way to control the actions afterwards\u2026 people
    probably won\u2019t delete the files\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat happens afterward
    is irrelevant. The system I proposed has nothing to do with students getting access
    to files, <em>because they already have access to the files</em>. They can download
    everything Monotype, Adobe, Fontshop or almost anyone else sells in less time
    than you could ship them a legit collection on CD. What I am suggesting is to
    try monetizing a market that right now isn\u2019t producing much income at all
    by selling one-time licenses. Sure the system would be a pain in the ass. Sure
    it will be abused. But unlike the current system\u2014offering a few discount
    bundles and a lot of indignation\u2014at least my proposal might generate some
    revenue and build a direct connection between the type industry and its next generation
    of customers.\r\n\r\n<cite>One thing about a low price for a student is that it
    will teach the foolish student that type is not valuable.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s
    absurd. Students don\u2019t think less of the software and hardware from companies
    like Adobe, Microsoft, Apple, Epson and Autodesk because they offer huge student
    discounts. The concept of a student discount really isn\u2019t that complicated;
    anyone stupid enough to misunderstand student pricing as representative of open-market
    value is  uncommonly stupid and not worth working into a business strategy. "
  created: '2008-03-28 15:00:11'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "James actually said what I was about to type, more or less: right now, people
    all around the world are using fonts which they didnt pay for, often for professional
    purpose. If some of them pay 5 dollars and forget to upgrade in the future, at
    least its 5 dollars, which is better than nothing. I actually think that this
    solution would bring more money to the typographers who live a modest life, whom
    i respect on a very high basis.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-03-28 16:07:12'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>Do you really think that lowering font prices to $5 or even $1 would
    stop, or significantly reduce, student font piracy? I mean, if students have no
    money, then they have no money. You can\u2019t afford $5 licenses without money</em>\r\n\r\nI
    doubt if they will buy it even then, at least the majority. You often need a credit
    card, or go through other 'annoying' payment methods. Downloading is much quicker
    and doesn't cost anything.\r\n\r\nTo illustrate: I am probably the only one from
    my whole year at art academy that has ever legally bought typefaces. Yet most
    of them know how much work goes into designing a typeface. But they just shrug
    it off, when I say they need a license.\r\n\r\nIt's a matter of mentality."
  created: '2008-03-28 16:29:12'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>That\u2019s absurd.</cite>\r\n\r\nPossibly so, although it is commonly
    held that price does have a relationship to perceived value. But I defer, as computers
    were a much different sort of tool when I was in school, and I am less familiar
    with how students feel today."
  created: '2008-03-28 16:53:29'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Just a note about a lower price for the "non-professionals". I don''t buy
    it. I understand a two-tier scheme for students and professionals, but I do not
    support the idea that a non-graphic designer deserves a lower price. Either you
    are a card-carrying, proof of enrollment student or you''re not. And, if you''re
    not, then too bad. Ooh. I''m a mood today. Sorry. '
  created: '2008-03-28 17:04:56'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Tiffany, you have a really good point. Fonts are not exclusive products just
    for designers. They are for everyone who uses computers. In fact, I'll bet that
    the big foundries sell more fonts to normal people than to graphic designers.
    If these normal people would suddenly have to pay less\u2026 gosh, there goes
    the business :(\r\n\r\nMoreover, as a designer, the secretary printing out reports
    at the big international bank is just as important to me as the cool corporate
    designer in the neat office around the corner. Both might be paying customers
    of my fonts. In fact, the big bank probably bought more licenses than the small
    design studio, so\u2026\r\n\r\nJust a hypothetical scenario though. Doesn't necessary
    apply to me, or a lot of other designers. But it does apply to some typeface designers!"
  created: '2008-03-28 17:13:49'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Exactly! If a foundry were to try a 3-tier system they'd find themselves
    with sooooo much paperwork they'd close their shop just to stay sane. ;^) And
    I guess I was thinking more from a foundry POV too. \r\n"
  created: '2008-03-28 17:28:29'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Fonts are not exclusive products just for designers. They are for everyone
    who uses computers.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou\u2019re right, Dan, fonts are used by everyone
    out there. But I believe that there are a lot of people who aren\u2019t professional
    designers and have very different needs in regards to fonts than designers do.
    To some extent Linotype has addressed this by selling individual fonts as tiered
    Opentype offerings at price points that scale upwards with features\u2014a model
    I very much appreciate. I believe that there are a lot of different design and
    financial situations that keep users from purchasing fonts under the one-price-fits-all
    models, and that foundries might just bring in a whole lot of new customers by
    offering more licensing models. \r\n\r\nUnfortunately all my scenarios are just
    as hypothetical as yours\u2014after all, I don\u2019t have thousands of fonts
    on offer to play around with. "
  created: '2008-03-28 17:37:44'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite> there are a lot of people who aren\u2019t professional designers and
    have very different needs in regards to fonts than designers do</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd
    the vast majority of them will do just fine with the fonts that come bundled with
    their computer. I doubt that is a profitable market for foundries to chase. If
    there were to be a multi-tiered structure for font pricing, I'd rather see it
    have to do more with use. I.e. an individual designer or small studio who needs
    a font to design a logo for a neighborhood bakery vs. an agency that is licensing
    a font to use for a corporate identity. Perhaps this is something that should
    be reflected in the EULA rather than the pricing. I don't know."
  created: '2008-03-28 17:54:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The difficulty with all of these schemes is that there is a fair amount of
    time involved in making it work, There is more support issues as well. A corporate
    designer is going to know how to load fonts where the average joe or Jane will
    be on the phone wanting to know how come that OTF thingy won't load on their Windows
    95 system or on their daughter's Apple IIe.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-28 18:38:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "sorry, double post\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-28 18:38:40'
- author:
    name: chank
    picture: 110359
  body: "hi y'all - \r\n\r\nMy name's Chank and I'm a long time listener and a first-time
    poster.\r\n\r\nI make fonts and sell them through my own website, Chank.com, and
    through a number of other distributors.\r\n\r\nI sell the same font under different
    names at different prices all the time. I have hundreds of fonts that I offer
    for sale.\r\n\r\nYou can get my fonts for as little as $4.95 or as much as $124
    for a single weight of a font.\r\n\r\nThe main difference in the price is usually
    the license that comes with it. I encourage and empower casual designers and give
    them a chance to test-drive my fonts by making them available at a very reasonable
    price. This low-cost option is called a \"Personal Use License\" and restricts
    what you can and can't do with a font. Sometimes these budget fonts are only available
    in TrueType format.\r\n\r\nI also sell my fonts to big corporations. When they
    buy a font, they like to be able to do whatever they want with it, so they're
    comfortable paying a bit more for a less-restrictive license. They also like Post-Script
    and OpenType. For them I offer a more expensive \"Commercial Use License\".\r\n\r\nOther
    distributors of mine have their own licenses that they bundle with my fonts, and
    then sell them at a different price, usually somewhere in between $4.95 and $124.\r\n\r\n(All
    these prices are based on a basic 5-user license; I'll try not to get into the
    murkier waters of multi-user licensing or freefonts in this post.)\r\n\r\nAll
    these licenses have different wordings, and it may be confusing. But the reality
    of it is that they all sell. That's how my small business survives. I offer my
    fonts through many distributors at many different prices, because this is how
    I can reach the largest and most diverse group of designers. Because I want lots
    of people to use my fonts. It's only when people see other designers using fonts
    that they can really appreciate a good type design. So I try to get lots of copies
    of my fonts out there and in use, under whatever name at whatever price it takes
    to make the sale.\r\n\r\nThe best deals are usually at my personal website, where
    sometimes I have crazy sales and sell fonts for as little as $2.95. But that only
    happens once in a while.\r\n\r\nOne of my favorite sales tools is the split-license
    option I use for my fonts for sale at MyFonts.com:\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/PurchaseOptions?familyid=75616&id[]=154232\r\n\r\nThere
    you'll see the exact same font, in different formats, with different licenses,
    at different prices. I've never really promoted this option, because I don't want
    to confuse people with licensing talk. But when people see different licenses
    for sale at different prices, they can pretty easily determine which one is right
    for them and purchase accordingly. \r\n\r\nI sell many more Personal Use licenses
    than I sell Commercial Licenses. But I make more money from the Commercial Licenses
    because the big companies can pay more.\r\n\r\nAnd that helps offset my costs.
    So I can make my fonts available to individual users and casual font enthusiasts
    at a lower cost.\r\n\r\nAin't life grand?\r\n\r\n-chank\r\n\r\n\r\n-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\r\n\r\nChank
    Co               http://www.chank.com\r\nPO Box 580736\r\nMinneapolis, MN 55458
    \u2022 USA\r\n\r\n-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-28 19:05:02'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Welcome to the forums, Chank.\r\n\r\nDo you wonder if people are licensing
    for personal use and then turning around and using it for commercial work? I'd
    guess you have. Putting it that way, having multiple licenses, makes sense. But
    I wonder if the reason more foundries don't/won't adopt this is because of trust.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-28 19:17:17'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Thanks for the excellent and very relevant post, Chank.\r\n\r\n<cite>But
    I wonder if the reason more foundries don\u2019t/won\u2019t adopt this is because
    of trust.</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m pretty sure that it is. But my theory is that
    there\u2019s a lot of money to be made by brushing off the people who break the
    trust than there is in rigid licensing."
  created: '2008-03-28 19:29:17'
- author:
    name: chank
    picture: 110359
  body: "Ha! ha!\r\n\r\nYou know what the really funny thing is?\r\n\r\nPeople sometimes
    buy both licenses! Woo hoo!\r\n\r\nFreelance graphic designers can buy the Personal
    Use License for their internal design work and sketches they make for their clients.
    Then, once the client approves the design, the designer can send them to MyFonts
    to buy the Commercial Use License for themselves. Or sometimes a designer will
    buy the Commercial Use license on the client's behalf.\r\n\r\nAnd it's pretty
    clear which use is which. If it's a freelancer who doesn't even know if the font
    is gonna be used or not, then he or she should be using the cheaper Personal Use
    version. If it's a company who decides to use it for marketing, packaging or the
    web, then they know they need to get the Commercial Use version.\r\n\r\nIf it's
    student work, it's Personal Use. If it's a logo for a new small business, it's
    a Commercial Use. \r\n\r\nPeople are smarter than most people give them credit
    for. They will buy the appropriate license for their intended use if given an
    affordable opportunity to do so. \r\n\r\nI believe offering low-cost fonts for
    casual designer discourages piracy. I personally think my fonts are pirated less
    because I so readily make them available in a variety of venues. If I were elitist
    and were to charge more to sell my fonts to a more elite group, I would be more
    a target of font pirates. But since I'm \"keepin' it real\", people rarely deliberately
    pirate my fonts.\r\n\r\nI think the reason more foundries don't employ a multi-tiered
    licensing system is that it's just too complicated and confusing. And it takes
    a lot of time, energy and money to lawyers to write multiple End-User-Licenses.
    It's kind of a pain. Most font designers would rather make fonts than spend time
    re-writing EULAs. I'm an anomalie.\r\n\r\nBut the way MyFonts does it is clean
    and easy for the end user (the font shopper). Theoretically a foundry can write
    any number of licenses and attach them to a variety of prices for an infinite
    number of SKUs. It's the clumsiness of shopping interface that makes it impractical.
    \r\n\r\nRemember the first rule of marketing: Keep it simple, stupid.\r\n\r\n-chank"
  created: '2008-03-28 19:54:20'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "<em>If it\u2019s a freelancer who doesn\u2019t even know if the font is gonna
    be used or not, then he or she should be using the cheaper Personal Use version.</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is surprising. But if it is a studio or agency that doesn't know if the font is
    going to be used is it still a Personal Use License?"
  created: '2008-03-28 20:15:57'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>People are smarter than most people give them credit for.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    maxim should be on the intro page of every design textbook."
  created: '2008-03-28 20:32:31'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Dear Chank,\r\n\r\nFirst, welcome here. Second, I really like your work,
    especially Rosemary, which i plan to put in my upcoming book at the Cooper Black
    article, side by side with Oz and Sauna. At last, I am happy to get an opinion
    from a typeface designer which actually goes in the same way I think - you kind
    of said it all: \"I believe offering low-cost fonts for casual designer discourages
    piracy. I personally think my fonts are pirated less because I so readily make
    them available in a variety of venues. If I were elitist and were to charge more
    to sell my fonts to a more elite group, I would be more a target of font pirates.
    But since I\u2019m \u201Ckeepin\u2019 it real\u201D, people rarely deliberately
    pirate my fonts\". I can't add anything.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-03-28 20:32:54'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "But I think using the term \"casual\" in relation to designer begs for definition.
    I think the second money is changing hands it is no longer a casual thing? No?
    If that isn't the case, does wearing sweats to work count as casual? I tease,
    I only tease.\r\n\r\nSo by casual should we think \"scrapbooker\"?"
  created: '2008-03-28 20:55:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Hey Chank, thanks for the positive vibe, you made my day!
  created: '2008-03-28 20:59:39'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Nick, would you consider licensing fonts in the same way?
  created: '2008-03-28 21:04:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Yes, I have been thinking about this for a while, and have some radical font
    licensing schemes in the works, which I will put in play with the release of the
    Modern Suite next month. For me, the key is not so much different licences for
    the same product, but different products at different prices, targeting different
    markets. \r\n\r\nI agree with Chank, people can figure things out, and everybody,
    students included, have to appreciate that there are a variety of \"product propositions\"
    out there, from different foundries."
  created: '2008-03-28 21:14:30'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: "Fountain have pro bono fonts and you can buy a commercial licence if you
    want  use them for commercial work\r\nCape Arcona same sort of deal\r\nCanada
    Type have a personal use licence and a commerical use licence, and also offer
    a 10% discount on their site paying direct.\r\n\r\n...and sure there are many
    others, many free fonts for commercial work (well designed too).... and truck
    loads of what I consider seriously bad fonts that are not free, I don't buy those...
    though they seem to make it onto some retail sites which I find disturbing.\r\n\r\nNow
    my topic/post/question is about the 'retailers' Veer vs MyFonts and a recommended
    retail, not including occasional special offers.\r\n\r\nQuestion: Are the fonts
    on Veer are produced differently or there is a reason for the noticable price
    difference between Veer and MyFonts, please speak now (based only on the fonts
    noted above)... until then $30 saved? I would be crazy not to take up the offer
    right? I most times try to support the designer or originating foundry first,
    as previously stated in one of the above posts.\r\n\r\nQuestion: 'Students': with
    student licences, when you do 'actually' create commercial design or commercial
    use i.e. where by you are paid moneys in any form for the design you just did
    that included those typeface(s), do you purchase a commercial licence first? If
    studying and working as a designer, any commercial work would still be commercial,
    student ID card works for cheaper Pantone Trivia markers, Apple Macs, software,
    movie tickets and travel.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-28 21:23:29'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "@Nick: I'm very interested to see how this works. Can't wait.\r\n\r\n@Paul:
    But how do each of these foundries define personal use? I wish more foundries
    would chime in, this is very interesting and educational."
  created: '2008-03-28 21:25:10'
- author:
    name: chank
    picture: 110359
  body: "I think it can still be a casual font user, even if money's changing hands.
    Five bucks from your PayPal account is pretty relaxed.\r\n\r\nI think of casual
    designers as everybody out there who is not paid to be working as a designer.
    People who do it just for fun and personal reasons. That's all the scrapbookers
    and students and any old goofball that's got a copy of Word and is unhappy with
    the font selections available.\r\n\r\nThere is a problem in getting fonts out
    to all these people in that they may use the font *poorly*, to make bad design.
    This may be another factor that keeps some foundries from mass-distributing their
    fonts at low prices. Some foundries may not want their fonts getting into the
    hands of bad designers, so they keep their prices high to scare away the riff
    raff.\r\n\r\nAs for the Veer/MyFonts example, I would guess it's probably the
    same font, just with different licenses. Go with the vendor you like better. Or
    just take the cheaper price. At least the designer's getting something, either
    way.\r\n\r\nI've been wiggling my prices around for 15 years now, and still don't
    know what exactly is the best thing to do. \r\n\r\nBut I still get pretty happy
    when I sell any font at any price.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-28 21:45:56'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: "@Tiffany: check out Canada Type their definitions of usage     http://www.canadatype.com/fonts.php\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-28 21:48:08'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Question: \u2019Students\u2019: with student licences, when you do
    \u2019actually\u2019 create commercial design or commercial use i.e. where by
    you are paid moneys in any form for the design you just did that included those
    typeface(s), do you purchase a commercial licence first?</cite>\r\n\r\nAll of
    my commercial work with fonts was done for whoever I was employed by at the time,
    and I\u2019ve had my employers buy fonts for projects, or just switched to Myriad/Minion
    at the last minute when someone refuses to buy the fonts before going to press."
  created: '2008-03-28 22:23:01'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "Rongel\r\n\r\n180 Euro (exclusively tax)\r\nhttp://www.felicianotypefoundry.com/cms/order-fonts\r\n\r\n450
    Dollar or 348 Euro (exclusively tax?)\r\nhttp://www.vllg.com/Feliciano/Rongel#panel=poster\r\n\r\nAnd
    it looks like you would get Type 1 from Village and OTF from the Feliciano Type
    Foundry (with more glyphs).\r\n\r\nSingle user license in both cases.\r\n\r\n---------\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, in my opinion it is a shame, that you don\u2019t get the FontFont webfonts
    for free or with slight upgrade costs, if you already have purchased the regular
    versions."
  created: '2010-07-19 22:53:59'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "'Font pricing' is like 'application pricing', everyone thinks it costs too
    much. I was taking to a font vendor distributor recently that '9.95 a font' was
    the magic font price. Like all these 'info commercials' that advertise stuff for
    $9.95' or another good one is '19.95'.\r\n\r\nLook, everyone wants a bargain.
    I look for sale prices on things, all the time. \"Frugal\" is in. But, honestly.
    It takes a lot of energy and time to develop a successful font or typeface series.
    Just like it takes a lot to develop a new application.\r\n\r\nBut, if you give
    it away, you cheapen the service or the product. Font products already do not
    get any respect. Many folks, out there, exchange fonts like 'music files'. And,
    people think it's okay.\r\n\r\nI think there should be a reasonable price for
    fonts. $39. a font is not unreasonable. But, I think that webfonts  should be
    included, for a minimal price increase, for unlimited web hosting on that particular
    server.\r\n\r\nThere are many schemes out there at the moment.\r\n\r\nTypeKit
    vs. fontspring (font-face ready) are both good solutions.\r\n\r\nCheck out..\r\nhttp://www.fontspring.com/fontface\r\n\r\nAnd,
    I think, that there should be discount font pricing for students.\r\n\r\nI offer
    20% off to all students, who fax me a legitimate school I.D. card, for the fonts
    that I sell online.\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-19 23:31:11'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Alex\r\n\r\nBergamo is included in the Softmaker collection, which you
    get for round about 50 Euro. The whole collection. And fontspring sells the Bergamo
    family for round about 100 Dollar. Softmaker has changed the name at least.\r\n\r\nEveryone
    seems to be allowed to sell fonts like Bembo or Garamond. I assume, they have
    taken the names from Softmaker and the font data from the Std and Pro OT versions
    of Adobe, Linotype and Monotype (taken from the web, torrent or any other sharing
    service!). Just decompiled with TTX and the names and the copyright info replaced.
    I think about doing that, too."
  created: '2010-07-20 00:13:39'
- author:
    name: mehallo
    picture: 109684
  body: "The whole pricing of fonts is a weird game. And on the developer end, the
    money really isn't as good as it could be.\r\n\r\nI've had fonts with a few different
    distributors - and over the years, I've found myself tied into some insane sublicensing
    agreements where I make about a buck or two per font - no matter what they're
    charging.\r\n\r\nSo I've moved my entire collection over to MyFonts where I often
    make more in a month than I do with all other foundries - annually - combined.
    Part of it is MyFonts' cut with developers, which is better than the 20% (or less)
    typically offered.\r\n\r\nDoes this make it 'worth it' to be a font designer?
    I don't look at it that way, since I enjoy the work. But since I've been at MyFonts,
    I am starting to enjoy the extra monies that have been coming in. And the variance
    in income has really surprised me, which is why I'm mentioning it.\r\n\r\nMy prices
    are (mostly) slightly lower at MyFonts to attract sales - and this matches others,
    or doesn't. But at MyFonts I can set my own prices.\r\n\r\n\r\nsteve mehallo\r\nhttp://tinyurl.com/mehallofonts\r\nhttp://mehallo.com/blog\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-30 00:29:57'
date: '2008-03-21 01:37:35'
title: Price of fonts...

---
