---
author:
  name: ebensorkin
  picture: 109987
body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Jenson1475venicelaertius_6230.jpg]\r\n\r\n1475
  Nicholas Jenson\r\n\r\nI need a better sample to begin to take this seriously but
  it has piqued my interest.\r\n\r\nPart of why I think it's possible is that he is
  thought to have trained in Mainz, and knew the type of  Johann and Wendelin of Speyer
  (de Spira), and Sweynheym & Pannartz's  Subaico.\r\n\r\n( RE: Subaico http://typophile.com/node/43615
  )\r\n\r\nIt would be great to be sure about this. Does anybody have any high-rez
  images? Or suggestions?"
comments:
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I just found a high rez in the Arno Pro booklet we got at the last TypeCon.
    Look on page 7 in the upper right hand corner. I think it is real now after all.
  created: '2008-03-28 18:51:43'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Eben, find out if it was used in anything in the Library of Congress collection
    of Incunabula, and if so I can get up close and personal with it.
  created: '2008-03-28 19:12:44'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "The best way to sort that out would be to get a list of books he printed
    & see if they have any of them in their rare books area etc. If I find such a
    list I will post it for you.\r\n\r\nRight now I am working hard on getting the
    Bodleian Library image Adobe used, ( Eusebius; De Evangelica Preparatione ), or
    some other digital source. I want to get it into a talk I am working up and I
    am far far away from the objects themselves. I am in Alaska."
  created: '2008-03-28 19:36:55'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/jensonnarrowwide_4999.jpg]\r\n\r\nThis
    is where it comes from:\r\n\r\nhttp://bp1.blogger.com/_LOdemeNWsT4/Rd-u6aNrsVI/AAAAAAAAABo/eYZhy0AHqMw/s1600-h/type0017.5.jpg\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-28 19:52:23'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Is this the correct book?\r\nhttp://lccn.loc.gov/75561930\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    a Eusebius by Jenson, but dated 1470."
  created: '2008-03-28 19:53:40'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: That looks like a match for the Oxford source - yes! Are you going to go try
    to look at it? If you do - call ahead. I wonder if they have images... I wonder
    too if they would allow photos... Especially with a macro lens!
  created: '2008-03-28 19:57:00'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I\u2019ll call and check about on viewing incunabula, but the LOC is usually
    pretty cool about letting people handle rare books in the Jefferson reading room.
    Armed guards search anyone going in or out, and it\u2019s usually only got a few
    visitors. They\u2019ve let me take a camera in before, but there are a few downsides:
    no flash, and the room one can shoot in has fluorescent lights. I\u2019ll have
    to borrow a much nicer camera for this, of course. If I\u2019m really lucky I
    can talk someone there into doing a photo for us!\r\n\r\nHow soon do you need
    an image? I can probably drop by next Thursday or Friday."
  created: '2008-03-28 20:07:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Nobody is answering the phone over there right now, so I\u2019ve emailed
    one of the rare books librarian about accessing the volume and photographing it.
    \r\n\r\nI have to admit, I\u2019ve always wanted to dig that book up, it\u2019s
    nice having an excuse :)"
  created: '2008-03-28 20:18:15'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Yes, that would be uber-cool! I would suggest a point & shoot of recent vintage
    with a macro (often using flower as a symbol) feature. The one I have can be pretty
    remarkable. And learn how to to make SURE the flash doesn't go off. Of course
    an SLR with a tripod can be even better but that can be tricky to learn if you
    don't own it already. And the tripod needs to be a little above average to allow
    for shooting down. Time frame wise, any time this month would be great! I would
    want to use the image for TypeCon.\r\n\r\nIsn't it the case that all the Jenson
    punches are missing? I will have to check on that..."
  created: '2008-03-28 20:27:33'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "No tripods in the LOC either, although I might be able to get a tabletop
    model past the guards. \r\n\r\nAnd yes, Jenson\u2019s punches disappeared centuries
    ago."
  created: '2008-03-28 20:34:53'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: That's what I thought. So then it really is exclusively & only the evidence
    of the page that would be of any potential use.
  created: '2008-03-28 20:59:25'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Not necessarily. The library should have equipment and staff for this sort
    of thing. Given that you don\u2019t need the images in a hurry it\u2019s likely
    that arrangements can be made for photography, although they may charge something
    if they\u2019re the ones doing it."
  created: '2008-03-28 22:12:46'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I am confused. What do you mean by <cite> Not necessarily. </cite>? When I
    said <cite> the evidence of the page </cite> I meant that there would not be be
    any metal type or any punches to help us figure out what Jenson was up to. So
    it would be the pages he printed that would be our best evidence. Maybe you mean
    something totally outside this though.
  created: '2008-03-28 22:42:02'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Eben, you should get in touch with Miguel about the image in the Adobe Specimen
    book. (If you haven't already.)
  created: '2008-03-28 22:49:47'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Here is something from a similar time period printed by Leinhart Holle* of
    Ulm in 1842\r\n\r\nHe goes with ligatures common in scribal blackletter \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/leinart_6090.holm.ulm.1482.sm.jpg]\r\n\r\n*
    I mis wrote \"Leinart Holm\" in a pre-edited post\r\n\r\nI will make a separate
    thread for his stuff, he has a TON of special shapes/ligatures. I don't think
    they are all that successful but they are interesting."
  created: '2008-03-28 22:52:47'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Thanks Tiff, I will do that.
  created: '2008-03-28 22:53:13'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Sorry Eben, I completely misunderstood you so just ignore that last post.
    There\u2019s just too many thoughts running through my head right now."
  created: '2008-03-28 23:11:53'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: And I completely forgot to say, so please let me say now -  Thank you very
    very much!
  created: '2008-03-28 23:57:11'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Here are two examples and they examples put over each other. In the example
    below the wider a is in blue and the more narrow one is green. This is from a
    leaf in the University of Iowa's collection. Comments?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/compared_4808.jpg]"
  created: '2008-04-05 19:42:34'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "It\u2019s certainly interesting. I should be able to get to the library next
    week. I meant to drop by yesterday but something came up at the office."
  created: '2008-04-05 23:43:13'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Eben --\r\n\r\nIt's a little tricky to discern which differences may be due
    to design intention and which to printing exigencies. The differences here are
    subtle.\r\n\r\nWhat strikes me is the relative consistency of the majority of
    the glyph between the two versions, as shown by your overlay. A couple of thoughts
    occur to me -- pure speculation and probably completely fanciful: \r\n\r\n1) Perhaps
    the wide punch was cut and the matrix struck; and then the punch was reworked,
    trimming the upper terminal, and a new matrix struck.\r\n\r\n2) At the very least,
    I can imagine that the same counterpunch would have been utilized.\r\n\r\n3) Perhaps
    it is all in our imagination and the one that seems narrower has simply worn down
    at the top. \r\n\r\nI suppose you've examined this closely enough to clearly identify
    a pattern of narrow variants and can rule out number three.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-06 15:18:49'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "RE: \r\n\r\n1) - that's my guess but I would want too see the pattern occur
    again & again. And even that wouldn't be proof. But the relative consistency does
    make that tip interesting.\r\n\r\n2) I think so too.\r\n\r\n3) Definitely still
    a possibility. \r\n\r\nWhat James Mosley said \"But it seems to me that the short-headed
    a is probably just damaged -- either accidentally or on purpose.\"\r\n\r\nHe also
    sent me this which I have altered to show what I think is the same pattern. It's
    also not conclusive but to my eye it continues the pattern.\r\n\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/jenson_3500.mosley.cambridge.altered.jpg]"
  created: '2008-04-06 16:25:02'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "Eben, I think you might want to have a look to Griffo\u2019s De Aetna lowercase,
    too, since it had many versions of the same glyphs. \r\n\r\nGiovanni Mardersteig
    wrote that he believed the alternates where mixed in the case to give a more calligraphic
    feel to the text, but maybe we could find instances where they were used consisently
    in certain contexts?"
  created: '2008-04-06 16:25:58'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Sorry the image is so big but you can scroll around. \r\n\r\nHere is a smaller
    one:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/jenson_6150.mosley.cambridge.altered.sm.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    had thought bent top of the \"a\" but the inside would be deformed then too. No?"
  created: '2008-04-06 16:31:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Jonathan Hoefler mentioned Mardersteig to me too just this Morning. Would
    you tell me more about him? I have not even looked yet.
  created: '2008-04-06 16:32:48'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "One of the finest printers of the 20th century, he was allowed to recast
    Bodoni\u2019s types from the original punches/matrices which he used to set the
    text of the first books from his own letterpress studio/publishing house, the
    Officina Bodoni. He then designed his own typefaces, cut by the great Charles
    Malin. Try to find specimens of Mardersteig\u2019s Griffo, Dante, Zeno, Fontana,
    Pacioli, etc. they\u2019re incredibly beautiful. There\u2019s <a href=\"http://www.google.com/search?client=safari&rls=en&q=mardersteig+site:typophile.com&ie=UTF-8&oe=UTF-8\">quite
    a bit of information here on Typophile</a>, too.\r\n\r\nHe was a friend of Stanley
    Morison and produced extensive, scholarly research on Francesco Griffo da Bologna,
    Felice Feliciano, Aldo Manuzio, Leon Battista Alberti, calligraphers from the
    Renaissance and roman inscription in Italy and abroad, among other subjects. \r\n\r\nIn
    a word, he\u2019s a legend.\r\n\r\nRe-reading my earlier post now, maybe it might
    have sounded as if I was talking about Jenson\u2019s type being mixed in the case,
    but I was still referring to the De Aetna type, which I think might share some
    of the traits of Jenson\u2019s Eusebius type concerning the presence/use of alternates."
  created: '2008-04-06 18:23:33'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: "<em>Mardersteig</em>\r\n\r\nGiovanni Mardersteig discussed variant sorts
    in the roman types of the <em>De Aetna</em> in the introductory note to his reprint
    of the <em>De Aetna</em> text published in 1969. This is his redrawing of them,
    taken from Nicolas Barker\u2019s reproduction in his essay of 1974 on the Aldine
    types in Paris.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/De Aetna type - variant
    sorts - Barker after Mardersteig 500_3600.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe <em>De Aetna</em> is
    printed from newly cast type and it has been called a kind of type specimen. But
    it is an odd piece of setting. There are several examples of u used upside down
    for n, and the other way round too I think, so maybe the caster was still at work
    and had not produced enough sorts to be used for the page in hand. It seems an
    odd thing to say about a book and a type that have been so endlessly discussed,
    but someone should really look at both of them more carefully.\r\n\r\nI am not
    sure I fully accept all Mardersteig\u2019s variants as being derived from different
    punches rather than variations caused by the casting and handling of the type.
    He redrew them to emphasise the variations he undoubtedly believed that he saw.
    But an actual example, like the image below, is more ambiguous. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Aldus
    - De Aetna - det 3 500_6405.jpg]\r\n\r\nThere is not much doubt, I suppose, about
    the variant m and n (not shown here), and c too, but are the examples of different-looking
    a and e and u all really from different punches and intended as alternative forms?
    Still, the example shows some alternative sorts that are not in Mardersteig\u2019s
    examples: a swash form of e that seems to be intended for the end of a word (there
    was a swash m too). But what is the long-tailed a doing in the middle of a word?
    And what was the function of the two p\u2019s? Was the \u2018majuscule\u2019 style
    an experimental new form that might have replaced the other? More investigation
    needed.\r\n\r\nOne needs to remember that the e with its horizontal crossbar was
    equally experimental. We accept it as the normal form because of the prestige
    of the French imitations of the <em>De Aetna</em> type of over thirty years later.\r\n\r\nThere
    are plenty of ligatured sorts in Griffo\u2019s italic for Aldus. But are there
    variant forms of single letters? I remain to be convinced.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-06 18:58:21'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Having been to see the original in the SF Public Library today with a loupe
    and a camera I am growing much more convinced in the case of the Jenson and I
    am surprised by this - the Aldus. In the case of Aldus I think there is less intention
    involved in the use of varients except in the ra, although I am not utterly settled
    about this. In the case of the Jenson it is looking more & more deliberate to
    me. The Aldine seems to have far more varients than the Jenson. In both cases
    it was the lightest inkings that seemed most useful. they look less good but as
    evidence they seem great. I will post the photos I took through a loupe soon.
    I am going to try to visit again on Sat if I can. But if not, maybe I can convince
    some SF type types to be surrogates! If I can go you are welcome to join me if
    you can make it.\r\n\r\nAntonio, James - thanks very much for your comments!\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-10 08:33:19'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I\u2019ve done some more poking in the LOC catalog and found that there are
    25 of Jenson\u2019s books in the catalog. I think it would probably be best for
    me to look at Eben\u2019s results and then see if I can corroborate them in at
    least half a dozen other titles, posting images for everyone else to look at.
    Thoughts?"
  created: '2008-04-10 19:05:06'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Wow. 25! You can wait if you like. I can see where you would want to have
    some targets. I can certainly give you a list of probable targets but you may
    want too see what you would be looking for feature-wise for even more context.
    I might practice in the meantime. I got much better at it by the time I left the
    library. Managing a camera and a loupe at once is slightly tricky. Also, it's
    way to easy to let the flash come on - and they may toss you out with a flash
    going off or just warn you. It depends.
  created: '2008-04-10 22:17:45'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "If you want to give me a list that\u2019s great. Just do a keyword search
    for \u201Cjenson, nicolaus\u201D and it will bring up to goods. \r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    not too worried about the camera flash. It can hit a button and turn it off, and
    there won\u2019t be anyone else in the old card catalog rooms where photography
    is allowed even if it does."
  created: '2008-04-11 01:47:40'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: My flash reasserts itself when the camera "wakes up". In terms of targets
    I meant target glyphs, eg t,a, s, r, g etc.
  created: '2008-04-11 02:26:01'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Oh, well I was going to be looking at those anyway. I just thought that it
    might be good to try and track down specific volumes known to be printed with
    the same faces\u2014although if he was only printing for a decade, he couldn\u2019t
    have had that many varieties. "
  created: '2008-04-11 02:35:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "What if printing was so immensely profitable that they didn't need to re-use
    type?\r\nAt the very least, if they were reusing type, they had the time to sort
    through the huge character-sets they used.\r\nIn that case, perhaps they \"locked
    up\" frequently-used two-letter combinations (strung together via the holes in
    the type body, or soldered) and put these back in the case.\r\n\r\nAt any rate,
    the metal was relatively soft and malleable, so it would have been possible to
    fit the letter r to following letters in an on-demand, ad hoc basis. That r-a
    combination seems to have been a motif in Jenson's design process, a focus of
    how left median-height serifs fitted. Was Jenson compositor and printer? When
    did specialization evolve?\r\n\r\nComparing the economics and job functions of
    the changeover from phototype to digital should produce insights into the incunabula.\r\n\r\nIf
    they were attuned to the necessity of ligatures, but in a process of reducing
    the number of ligatures from the vast number mandated by following the scribal
    model, then they would perhaps have felt that treating certain non-ligating letter
    combinations with the same care and attention that they applied to truly ligated
    forms, was not an onerous burden, but a necessity.\r\n\r\nThe lengths compositors
    will sometimes go to with metal type was brought home to me by <em>The Book of
    Oz,</em>(mid 20th century) which was set in 14 pt Cooper Oldstyle (a similar size
    to Jenson's text), shaved and fitted letter by letter, to produce an effect that
    we would liken to negative tracking. "
  created: '2008-04-11 16:26:30'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>What if printing was so immensely profitable that they didn\u2019t
    need to re-use type?</cite>\r\n\r\nIf my understanding is correct, early printing
    was done on such tight budgets that old type had to be melted down to reduce to
    cost of type-metal for new fonts. But Venice was among the wealthiest places in
    Europe, and the printers were setting up shop with subsides from the uber-wealthy,
    so they may have had a lot of options. \r\n\r\n<cite>At any rate, the metal was
    relatively soft and malleable, so it would have been possible to fit the letter
    r to following letters in an on-demand, ad hoc basis.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt begs the
    question: were some of the variant sorts of that era letters that were customized
    for one job and then got mixed back in with the rest? \r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026shaved
    and fitted letter by letter, to produce an effect that we would liken to negative
    tracking.</cite>\r\n\r\nI always wondered how common these practices were. My
    design history professor has been working in design for fifty-plus years, and
    talked about it a lot. It seems like something that would have been especially
    likely in Monotype shops."
  created: '2008-04-11 16:47:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>early printing was done on such tight budgets that old type had to be
    melted down to reduce to cost of type-metal for new fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nRecycling
    was a well-established practice in the technologies involved in printing, so was
    not a cost-cutting measure. \r\n\r\n<em>But Venice was among the wealthiest places
    in Europe, and the printers were setting up shop with subsides from the uber-wealthy,
    so they may have had a lot of options.</em>\r\n\r\nSubsidies? Unlikely to be the
    driving force in a new media boom.\r\n\r\nAgain, compare the incunabula with recent
    events. DTP was a revolution because it drastically reduced the cost of publishing.
    The same was true of printing. So forget about tight budgets and subsidies--there
    was a shit-load of money to be made in printing."
  created: '2008-04-11 17:22:23'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "here is teaser for the images I will be posting to flickr in a while\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Italia_6578.sm.jpg]"
  created: '2008-04-14 20:57:46'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I just left the Library of Congress. Unfortunately I was not allowed to take
    a camera into the rare books reading room! That makes this much harder, when I
    have some time after graduation I\u2019ll get the library to do some macro shots.\r\n\r\nThe
    books I looked at were the <em>Biblia Latina</em>, <em>Naturalis Historia</em>,
    and <em>De Evangelica Praeparatione</em>. The bible turned out to be set in blackletter,
    and is very butch with studded leather covers and straps, but not especially applicable
    as the heavy impression and chunky letters make spotting alternates a nightmare.
    But there did appear to be at least two versions of <strong>a</strong>, distinguished
    by their upper counters, one appearing narrower and more geometric, the other
    slightly wider and rounded. The narrower version often appears at the beginnings
    of, and after t and r. Again, the type design, heavy imprint and thick paper make
    it hard to discern if these differences are intentional. \r\n\r\nIn the other
    two books I focused on the letter <strong>a</strong> after <strong>t</strong>,
    <strong>r</strong>, and <strong>g</strong>. I noticed the same patterns as Eben\u2014<strong>a</strong>
    is often a narrower sort after t and r, as well as at the beginning of words.
    There is a very narrow, effete <strong>a</strong> that sometimes appears after
    <strong>g</strong>, the difference is so strong it is obvious without magnification.
    What stood out to me was that the use of the alternates appeared inconsistent\u2014it
    does not occur everywhere, but not random. I don\u2019t know latin, so I cannot
    tell if this is somehow related to the grammar.\r\n\r\nAnd now for a tangent:
    the next time you feel bad about shipping a book with a nasty error, remember
    that Nicholas Jenson shipped at least one without checking to be sure that the
    rubricators filled in all of the drop caps!"
  created: '2008-04-18 18:01:20'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "James I am really sorry that they didn't let you take the camera in. Thanks
    for looking & reporting on what you saw. That's great too. I will have to look
    at the \"g\" again to see what I might have in my images. One of the books I looked
    at was \"De Evangelica Praeparatione\" too.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-04-18 18:31:25'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I\u2019m watching the BBC Gutenberg documentary (fabulous!) and about 31
    minutes in Fry states that the old printers had alternate characters of different
    widths to keep lines of type justified. If he is correct, could that be part of
    what\u2019s going on here? It would certainly explain the inconsistent use of
    the variants. If Fry has a source to back that notion up it would make a lot of
    sense, as Jenson is believed to have learned printing in Mainz."
  created: '2008-04-20 04:55:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Gutenburg did have a ton of extra sorts. This is well researched & checked
    on. Partly this was for the reason Fry gives but partly it was because in order
    to look like a book and to make a text that people would recognize as a legitimate
    text you simply had to have them. Think about how fancy pants typophiles feel
    about f ligatures and bump it up 12+ notches or so! \r\n\r\nThe thing is, when
    you read about the Bremer Presse the reason for their sorts ( as given) is the
    same - to make a more even page. But if you actually look at how they are used
    it doesn't 100% totally wash. What is true though is that if you have a tight
    line of text where you wish you had more space it is easy to swap those narrow
    r shapes & narrow s shapes in - and they do work reasonably well. \r\n\r\nWhat
    is certain is that the letter culture of the day in which Jenson made his letters
    was one where having more than one r would be seen as traditional/natural/obvious
    etc. The other thing is that what Jenson as was doing was high craft - like -
    well it's hard to say now because we don't have places to go buy custom made stuff
    much anymore. But they definitely did. 99% of everything you could buy would have
    been. Standardization would have been the novel notion - not custom design. Standardizing
    on 5 or 6 r shapes might have seemed like a big leap!\r\n\r\nI think Alan May
    is a good source for Fry.  ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-20 06:07:37'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: Nice new developments. Interesting comments, James!
  created: '2008-04-20 08:07:40'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I got a new sample today from Vassar. They say it's 1470. And... It seems
    to lack the features I had seen elsewhere. There do seem to be two \"a\" shapes
    but their differences are subtle and their use does not seem to follow a pattern.
    One  \"a\" has a spring tail and the other is lightLook at the word \"natura\"
    on the 3rd line. I would have expected a variant \"a\" after the r there. I don't
    see one. It may be that at this size casting differences obliterate any possibility
    of detective work. \r\n\r\nThe font is is quite small I think. I have included
    some paper texture and some brushwork next to the sample to give you some idea.
    The sample didn't have a ruler but I think I can draw some inferences. \r\n\r\nI
    am still looking at the r. In general the r used is the one with the flat (vertical)
    end. But there is the word \"inferre\" at the bottom of this sample. The second
    r seems like a variant to me. \r\n\r\nThe diamond shaped colon \":\" is pretty
    cool isn't it? \r\n\r\nThe long serif under the r's arm is great. \r\n\r\nSorry
    you have to scroll.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Jenson_4906.1470.vassar.sample.jpg]"
  created: '2008-04-22 16:16:00'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I am still looking for more examples and I am starting to get some help from
    Librarians and other reserachers. Still, if anybody can take additional images
    or has them I would be grateful for the help. \r\n\r\nEven though it does look
    a little like there could be a pattern in the \"r\"s in this sample it's pretty
    weak I think. \r\n\r\nThe fact that this image doesn't show paper fiber is also
    a strike against trying to use it.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-23 04:02:52'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: It's off your point but it's striking to me just how far the dots of these
    i's "lag" to the right.
  created: '2008-04-23 04:35:19'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Craig, I was also pretty surprised by that when I was looking at the Jenson
    books. When all\u2019s said and done I\u2019m still impressed by Jenson\u2019s
    achievement and letters, but there\u2019s some nasty stuff in there that leaves
    me wondering why people label his letters the most beautiful Romans ever printed."
  created: '2008-04-23 04:55:25'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I mean yes in fact if I looked around I might choose something else in the
    end as my #1 - but have a look. It really is lovely.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Jensonpage_5611.jpg]"
  created: '2008-04-23 06:12:19'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Graig: <em>[\u2026] it's striking to me just how far the dots of these i's
    \"lag\" to the right.</em>\r\n\r\nIf you look at the other accented characters,
    you will see the same for the ones that can be combined with the f and the \u2018long\u2019
    s. This positioning simply prevents collisions with the terminals of the forenamed
    two letters.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Jenson_accents_5587.jpg]\r\n\r\nYou
    also will have noticed that in Jenson\u2019s type the \u2018long\u2019 s shares
    the width with the f, which creates a gap to the next letter. The f and \u2018long\u2019
    s in the type for the <em>Aetna</em>, which Griffo clearly based on Jenson\u2019s
    model, show shorter terminals and a &#305; (dotless i) is used after these letters.
    I have seen a &#305; erroneously used upside down in the <em>Aetna</em>, but unfortunately
    at the moment I don\u2019t recall where.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Griffo_kerning_3803.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    two following examples (of which one is taken from this topic) show that Jenson
    for instance also applied alternatively kerned T-capitals.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Jenson_kerning_5469.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Jenson_kerning_2_4404.jpg]\r\n\r\nFEB\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-26 13:23:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I surmise that Jenson\u2019s wide /f and /\u017F are designed to provide
    disambiguation between these glyphs, via the substantial width of the crossbar
    of /f.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-26 15:25:17'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Nick: <em>[\u2026] disambiguation [\u2026]</em>\r\n\r\nReally? I reckon that
    this text will not be too di\u017F\u017F\u0131cult to read, although I made some
    strange miftakes.\r\n\r\nFEB "
  created: '2013-06-26 17:58:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Then why else do you think he made them so wide?\r\nSurely he must have been
    aware that in a sequence such as \u2018lydis \u017Fcrip\u017Fit\u2019, the /\u017F
    looks as if it is stranded between two words.\r\nThe gappiness following /\u017F
    in many combinations goes against the \uFB02ow of his style, in which many glyphs
    are butted up against one another."
  created: '2013-06-26 18:43:28'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Nick: <em>Then why else do you think he made them so wide?</em>\r\n\r\nIn
    Sweynheym and Pannartz\u2019s type as used in <em>Opera</em> from 1469 the f and
    \u017F have clear kerning and there doesn\u2019t seem to have been a dot used
    for the i. The other accents seem to be placed in such a way that there isn\u2019t
    any collision if preceded by f or \u017F, but it looks quite tight.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sweynheym_Pannartz_6151.jpg]\r\n\r\nDa
    Spira\u2019s type as used in <em>Historia Alexandri Magni</em> from 1473 shows
    the i and the \u0131, the latter for combining with the f or \u017F. So why does
    Jenson\u2019s type differ from these two types?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Da_Spira_4494.jpg]\r\n\r\nStanley
    Morison writes in <em>Four centuries of \uFB01ne printing</em> (London, 1949)
    on page 19 after mentioning that Jenson\u2019s type \u2018did not materially differ
    from that of the Da Spiras\u2019: \u2018<em>Jenson's associate and successor,
    Herbort, issued a catalogue of books for sale (? 1482) which, [\u2026] contained
    a lengthy commendation of Jenson\u2019s type wherein exaggeration was certainly
    not lacking. [\u2026]. The panegyrist is, however, well within the mark when he
    claims that \u201Cthe characters are so methodically and carefully \uFB01nished
    by that famous man that the letters are not smaller or larger or thicker than
    reason demands or than may afford pleasure\u201D.<em>\u2019\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Longs_interval_5067.jpg]\r\n\r\nAs
    you know, I strongly believe that the Jensonian model was a clever combination
    of optical preferences and a sophisticated systematized and standardized system
    for cutting, striking, and casting (see also my <a href=\"http://www.lettermodel.org\">PhD-blog</a>).
    Griffo and Garamont re\uFB01ned this model further, and for those who are conditioned
    with Garamont\u2019s model, Jenson\u2019s one looks perhaps a bit crude. But he
    paved the way for his successors.\r\n\r\nFEB"
  created: '2013-06-26 20:38:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>I reckon that this text will not be too di\u017F\u017F\u0131cult
    to read, although I made some strange miftakes.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nSometimes
    one can be mi\u017F\u017Fed however.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-26 21:34:51'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Hrant: <em>Sometimes one can be mi\u017F\u017Fed however.</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    like mifs Univerfe in bikini under the miftletoe ignored by mufcular men on a
    mifty Chriftmas day.\r\n\r\nI'm off to the dentift now.\r\n\r\nFEB"
  created: '2013-06-26 22:07:11'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: '[bookmark]'
  created: '2013-07-01 02:51:40'
date: '2008-03-28 00:59:34'
title: ' Nicholas Jenson, 1475; Another possible Contextual Alternative example?'

---
