---
author:
  name: Uli
body: "A text typeset in 9 on 10 point using font A may look, as if it were identical
  with the same text typeset in 10 on 10 point using font B. This phenomenon is exemplified
  by me in this document:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/helve90.pdf\r\n\r\nWho
  can give a scholarly definition of the notion of \"type size\" (or \"size of type\",
  \"font size\", \"point size\"), taking into considering this phenomenon as exemplified
  above.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Type size at output is controlled by two factors. \r\n\r\nOne is the relationship
    between the glyphs and the em square, the default space upon which all glyphs
    of all fonts are defined and positioned. This definition and positioning of glyphs
    at a single scale, is done by the type designer, so that all output of a given
    size of a font will be compatible across all glyphs. \r\n\r\nThe other factor
    is the size input by whatever method is offered to the user, so that the user
    may control the size(s) of the output. The first factor is non-standard, or, not
    all font families share the same relationship to the em square. The size relationship
    to the em square should, however, be standard across the styles of a family. The
    second factor has multiple standards, but the predominent one is the point system,
    (72.289, or so, to the inch). \r\n\r\nThis second factor allows the user to define
    consistent measure from baseline to baseline between any two fonts of the same
    size and leading, regardless of the first factor, or size on the em. But the first
    factor often causes baseline to cap height, e.g., variation within the same point
    size across font families.\r\n\r\nFrom the energetic use of the two factors, both
    confusion and completness are found, somewhere.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-03-29 11:51:24'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "This is implied by David's excellent explanation, but I wanted to further
    emphasize that the notion of \"point size\" which you refer to, should not be
    considered an absolute measurement. The only true absolute measurement within
    a font is the pixels per em size (ppm). \r\nYou can request 10 point type, but
    the number of pixels used to represent the height of the capital \"H\" will still
    vary, depending on whether you're displaying 10 point on a 96dpi display, a 72dpi
    display, a 600dpi printer, etc etc. The ratio of the em square to the cap height
    (and other height zones) within the font will remain roughly the same in each
    of these scenarios, but it won't be exactly the same. This is mostly due to the
    effect that hints can have on glyph height zones. \r\n\r\nThere are 2 factors
    that determine the exact ratio of height to em square, displayed ultimately as
    some number of pixels. First, the outline is scaled, as David described, by scaling
    the height of the font (which could be derived from several different values,
    but that's a complication for another discussion), with the outlines scaled proportionately.
    Then hints are applied. Remember that hints are specific to a ppm size not a point
    size (since they need to be related to an absolute value.) You could potentially
    have hints within a font that nudge x heights, cap heights, descenders, etc, by
    X number of pixels at Yppm size. This will normally only happen at display sizes,
    but could happen at up to 72ppm.\r\n\r\nHmm, I suppose you're sorry you asked
    by now! But this might help explain why you may see variations in cap height to
    x height ratio, or cap height to em square ration, at different smaller point
    sizes.\r\n\r\nthanks,\r\n\r\nJason C\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-29 12:26:17'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: The classic definition is the distance from ascender to descender, with the
    caveat that real fonts don't necessarily conform to this. When fonts were metal,
    it was the height of the slug. Sometimes there would be a little more room on
    the top and bottom, by design or by necessity. The software equivalent of that
    block of lead is the em consisting of 1000 units. Type is sized according to that
    em, relative to which all the glyph outlines are drawn. If the type designer draws
    the glyphs smaller relative to the em (possibly out of a worry that diacritics
    on capitals could collide with descenders at zero leading), a 10pt setting of
    it will look smaller.
  created: '2008-03-29 12:28:06'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "I very much appreciate the technical comments by Mr. Berlow and Mr. Campbell,
    but it seems to me that I was not correctly understood. Therefore I added an additional
    page to the document as the last page\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/helve90.pdf\r\n\r\nBoth
    \"Helvetica\" words on the last page are congruent, i.e. have the same mathematical
    size and shape, but they are typeset in different point sizes. Therefore the definition
    of \"type size\" is tricky here."
  created: '2008-03-29 12:57:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Uli, what I think may be puzzling you is that a face may be 'large on the
    body' or 'small on the body'. In the case of metal type this meant the height
    and depth of the type relative to the vertical dimension of the metal slug. \r\n\r\nIn
    the case of digital type, the ascender of the h + descender of the g may be less
    than the digital em. And the height of the A ring, for example, may take the extremes
    of the characters beyond the limits of the digital em. \r\n\r\nIt looks like in
    your examples of Helvetica 90 and 100, these are simply scaled differently in
    relation to the digital em. Then boosting the point size and reducing the leading
    in your application program can get the size and leading of the 90 and 100 to
    match. As David explained, the final result comes from the combination of the
    inbuilt size together with the user specified size. \r\n\r\nIf you look at it
    in a font making program like Font Lab, it will take the mystery out of it. You
    will see how the upm is defined (typically 1000 or 2400), and where the character
    outlines fall on the grid. Your application program will interpret the character
    point size and leading--distance from baseline to baseline--according to the user
    specification of the upm and baseline.   "
  created: '2008-03-29 17:32:33'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Both \u201CHelvetica\u201D words on the last page are congruent, i.e. have
    the same mathematical size and shape, but they are typeset in different point
    sizes. \"\r\n\r\nThank you for the example. I think the terminology you are using
    in describing the phenomenon you see, is backwards. I would say, both samples
    are typeset in the same point size, but they do not have the same mathematical
    size and shape. You might also say, the two samples were set at the same mathematical
    point size, but are typesetting at different sizes. \r\n\r\nIn this particular
    instance, it might be assumed that URW, who produced Nimbus, decided to scale
    the whole face to fit the accented uppercase into the Em, a common practice, and
    the first kind of sizing I mentioned. \r\n\r\n\"The only true absolute measurement
    within a font is the pixels per em size (ppm).\"\r\nYou are heading out of type
    space and into device space though it counts eventually, this issue, is size measurement
    across fonts. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-03-29 21:21:13'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "Uli, I don't think it is possible to come up with a scholarly definition
    of <em>type size.</em> The phrases you listed are not specific enough to be defined
    in any absolute way. Forty years ago when I started messing about in type, the
    meaning was pretty clear. It was whatever read-off my line gauge when I hooked
    it over the top edge of the piece of metal I had in my hand. \r\nBody size, cap
    height, and x-height all refer to something specific and unambiguous. However,
    today type size and point size do not. Type size is whatever you choose to measure
    and point size is that something measured in points. Although, generally speaking,
    the terms you asked about refer to the notion of body size, where body size is
    understood to be the native (unleaded) vertical measurement of the font including,
    in the case of metal type -- which is the only place such measurements make any
    sense at all -- all glyphs/strokes/elements that will be set from that singular
    font. Here font refers to a set of mechanical pieces used to produce printed letters
    of one style and a pre-determined system of vertical alignment and lateral spacing
    of those glyphs/strokes/elements.\r\nTwo years ago, I asked a similar question
    about why on earth when some digital fonts are set solid do descenders collide
    with ascenders of the subsequent line. I received an answer that included the
    phrase \"large on the body,\" which I understand as a possible reality in type
    setting, but fail to understand as a desirable aspect of a system for the reproduction
    of letters.\r\nThus, any definition of <em>type size</em> will depend on whether
    you are talking about the system to control the size of the letters to be produced,
    the letters produced, or even some part of the letters produced. Take your pick
    and stick with it."
  created: '2008-03-29 21:25:31'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<cite>\"Two years ago, I asked a similar question about why on earth when
    some digital fonts are set solid do descenders collide with ascenders of the subsequent
    line. I received an answer that included the phrase \u201Clarge on the body,\u201D
    which I understand as a possible reality in type setting, but fail to understand
    as a desirable aspect of a system for the reproduction of letters.\"</cite>\r\n\r\n1)\r\n\r\nThat
    nobody can supply a satisfactory definition of \"type size\" is due to the fact
    that the digital font formats (PS Type 1 etc.), have been primarily developed
    for American font users only with the consequence that, for instance, nowadays
    in European languages (French, German etc.), it is no longer possible to \"set
    solid\" (e.g. 10 on 10 point) without time-consuming experiments.\r\n\r\nsee http://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/solid.pdf\r\n\r\n2)\r\n\r\nAre
    \"large on the body\" and \"small on the body\" also applicable to non-American
    fonts?\r\n\r\nsee e.g. http://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/body.gif\r\n\r\nIs
    the font depicted here \"large on the body\" or \"small on the body\"?\r\n\r\nIn
    my view, such notions do not make sense for non-American fonts.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-30 14:32:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">In my view, such notions do not make sense for non-American fonts.\r\n\r\nIn
    digital fonts 'large' or 'small' on the body is just a question of how the glyphs
    are scaled in relation to the em. 'Larger' or 'Smaller' is in comparison to other
    fonts in a similar script. It is not a matter of the nationality of the designer.
    It is true that many fonts today have the height of the A ring or A circumflex
    greater than the em--a common recommendation is that the total of highest and
    plus lowest points are up to 20% greater than the em. This is based on the default
    leading in many applications, including Microsoft Word. [[http://typophile.com/node/13081?|See
    this]] for a detailed explanation. \r\n\r\nTherefore many digital fonts will not
    set solid without clashes in the diacritics--they often need something between
    solid setting and 20% leading to keep the highest diacritics clear of the above
    line of text. Some script fonts have swashes that greatly exceed the em--by more
    than 20%.  \r\n\r\nYou seem to want all fonts scaled on the em so that they can
    set solid, as was the case with metal. But what is so sacred about setting solid?
    If you rescaled the font by 80% in font software, regenerated it, and put the
    point size in the application 25% larger you would get the same result. Isn't
    what matters what is on the page or screen?\r\n\r\n>it is no longer possible to
    \u201Cset solid\u201D (e.g. 10 on 10 point) without time-consuming experiments.\r\n\r\nIf
    you don't want time consuming experiments, you can't set type well--at least not
    without a lot of experience, which amounts to the same thing. Fonts, whether in
    metal or film or digital, have never had the same apparent size at the same point
    size. This has to be taken into account by the designer wherever you are in the
    world.\r\n\r\n>Is the font depicted here \u201Clarge on the body\u201D or \u201Csmall
    on the body\u201D?  \r\n\r\nYou can't answer the question of how big a font is
    on the body by one line. It doesn't matter whether the font in question is latin,
    greek, arabic, and indic script or whatever. But you can answer by looking at
    it in font software, or by setting it on successive lines with highest and lowest
    extending characters--provided you know what rules your application software follows.
    And the question does make sense in any script. It doesn't matter whether the
    designer is American or German or Indian. The question is the scale of the glyphs
    relative to the digital em.  \r\n "
  created: '2008-03-30 15:17:18'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Bergson:\r\n\r\n> Word. See this for a detailed explanation.\r\n\r\nThe
    \"Update to the update to the update\" clearly shows that the \"vertical metrics\"
    is a mess. Even Apple and Microsoft application programmers do no longer know
    what is meant by what metrical values.\r\n\r\n> The question is the scale of the
    glyphs relative to the digital em.\r\n\r\nCould you please give a concrete numerical
    example for what you mean by \"digital em\"?\r\n\r\nAs mentioned by me, the plain
    Roman style of good-old Helvetica (HelveticaLTStd-Roman.otf) has the x-y bounding
    box of (-166, -225) to (+1000, +931) and uses a 1000 units per em grid. The glyph
    of \"A ring\" has the top-most value +931, and the glyph of \"c cedilla\" has
    the bottom-most value of -225.\r\n\r\nUsing these numerical data, please give
    the exact dimensions of what you call the \"digital em\"."
  created: '2008-03-30 17:11:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">the \u201Cvertical metrics\u201D is a mess.\r\n\r\nI agree. This mess seems
    to be a legacy of the old 'font wars' with different standards for Windows, Mac,
    PS1, True Type, and now open type. I understand that such messiness is typical
    in the software industry. \r\n\r\n>Could you please give a concrete numerical
    example for what you mean by \u201Cdigital em\u201D?\r\n\r\nThe font contains
    a number called the \"font upm value\". In Font Lab you can navigate: Font Info/
    Metrics and dimensions/ Font UPM Value. It is commonly either 1000 or 2400. Thus
    the em is really a unit of measurement within the font such that 'one em' is either
    a 1000 units or 2400 units, and the nodes, handles and metrics of the font are
    specified in terms of whole numbers of these units. \r\n\r\nWhat is confusing
    here--to me at any rate--is that the digital em is not defined as a box going
    from one place to another in the glyph window. You can't say \"the em in this
    glyph starts here and ends here,\" as you could in foundry metal type--it was
    generally just the height of the metal slug. \r\n\r\nBut in fonts the 'em' is
    just a unit of measurement. The 'em' isn't a thing that starts at the lowest descender
    and goes to the highest point in the tallest character. That's got another name--'bounding
    box' I think, but I'm not sure. And the 'bounding box' may measure more or less
    than one em--and thus be \"bigger or smaller on the em.\" It would really be better
    to say \"bigger or smaller as measured in em units.\"\r\n\r\nWhat happens that
    complicates things is the different applications may define the 'top' of the font
    differently. For example, I think Adobe puts the top of the text block at the
    ascender height. But another application might take the cap height or the highest
    point in the font. \r\n\r\nWhat all applications are *supposed* to do, anyway,
    is to make it so that if you specify the font size at '12 point', and specify
    the leading as zero points, then when you print it out, it should physically be
    1/6 of an inch from baseline to baseline on the paper. \r\n\r\nSo that's what
    the 'em' really is: it is an instruction to scale the output so that the 'em'
    as defined in the 'upm' value is printed out at the correct physical point size
    as internationally defined.\r\n\r\nThanks, I think I now understand this myself!
    \r\n  "
  created: '2008-03-30 18:08:35'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "The answer to your original question is no. No one can give a scholarly definition
    of \"type size.\" What a scholar could do is chronicle all the different ways
    the term \"type size\" has been used. It would be a longish chronicle.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    the digital era is from 1990 to 2008 -- or, if you include the likes of the Linotron
    202 in \"digital\" as opposed to \"photocomp,\" the mid-1960s to 2008. Even 48
    years covers only about 10% of the period of \"movable type\" in the west, and
    that ignores China.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-30 20:10:15'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "So \u2014 just trying to get a grip on this myself \u2014 does this mean
    that a 12 pt specification of a given font in QuarkXpress could lead to a different
    sized output (to paper) than the same size and the same font output from, say,
    InDesign? And, if so, does outputting to an intermediary format like pdf introduce
    any further uncertainty?"
  created: '2008-03-31 03:17:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Where the top of the text box is in relation to the type might change in
    different applications--and hence the location of the printed output--but the
    size of the printed output should not. \r\n\r\nIf you specify 12/12 pt type in
    the application, the printed output should always have the baselines 1/6 inch
    apart. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-31 03:32:47'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "OK, so let me see if I have this:\r\n\r\nThe size of a glyph is relative
    to the size of the em. The size of the em is however an absolute size because
    there is something in every program which will interpret it to give the same output
    as some other program operating on that input. (What might change is the calculation
    of the placement of the text block.)"
  created: '2008-03-31 04:13:34'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Let's assume, you make a printout on paper of the last page of the PDF\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/helve90.pdf\r\n\r\n(I've
    just added this last page)\r\n\r\nIs is possible to measure the size in points
    of the printed word Type Size?\r\n\r\nIf so, what does the printed word Type Size
    measure in points?"
  created: '2008-03-31 07:29:33'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>Is is possible to measure the size in points of the printed word Type
    Size?</em>\r\n\r\nThat would depend on what you mean by \"size in points\", considering
    the many possibilities given in this thread.\r\n\r\nJens"
  created: '2008-03-31 11:21:45'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> That would depend on what you mean by \u201Csize in points\u201D\r\n\r\nWhat
    \"size in points\" do designers mean when they use a type gauge?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.microtype.com/resources/mtruler.pdf\r\n\r\nhttp://www.misterart.com/store/view/001/group_id/1302/C-Thru-Type-Gauge-and-Specifier.htm"
  created: '2008-03-31 12:03:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Is is possible to measure the size in points of the printed word Type Size?\"\r\nYes.
    But because the line between the type size and lead size, if it exists, is invisible
    to the eye, one does not know if one is measuring type, or type and lead.\r\n\r\nThis
    does not mean, \"No one can give a scholarly definition of \u201Ctype size.\u201D
    It just means some people simply will not accept \"yes\" as an answer.;)\r\n\r\n\"That
    nobody can supply a satisfactory definition of \u201Ctype size\u201D is due to
    the fact that...\" \r\n...you didn't accept that was given, preferring to go with,
    whatever. All scripts that are mechanized, or computerized for composition, use
    the em. This is not an \"American\" thing. European text can be set as solid as
    the presence of accented characters allows. The Em can be defined to exclude or
    include accents, and the flexibility of the baseline location allows all scripts
    to function with a flexibe relationship to other fonts and other scripts. \r\n\r\n\"\u2014
    does this mean that a 12 pt specification of a given font in QuarkXpress could
    lead to a different sized output (to paper) than the same size and the same font
    output from, say, InDesign? \"\r\nNot likely. All 12 point fonts, set solid (0
    leading) , will measure the same distance from baseline to baseline, unless a
    lack of resolution causes minor differences between one low resolution, and another.
    E.G. the interline point measure of a 12 pt on zero leading at 72 dpi, may not
    match a 12 pt 96 dpi. But then again, they would never meet on the same page.\r\n\r\nAll
    one needs to do to prove these things, is make a glyph that is \"complete on the
    body\" a full em square character, and see for one's self, just how it works.
    \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-03-31 12:47:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Is is possible to measure the size in points of the printed word Type Size?\r\n\r\n>If
    so, what does the printed word Type Size measure in points?\r\n\r\nAs David writes,
    when you measure baseline to baseline on the printed page you measure a sum: point
    size of type + point size of leading. So to deduce the point size you need to
    know the leading specified in the application.  \r\n\r\n>What \u201Csize in points\u201D
    do designers mean when they use a type gauge?\r\n\r\nIn digital type, what is
    usually meant is the \"postscript point\", which is 72 to the inch or 127/360
    mm. The [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Point_(typography)|wikipedia article]]
    explains the different historical redefinitions of the size of the typographers
    point. If the type gauge is correctly set for the 'postscript point' then, yes,
    it would measure correctly. \r\n\r\nYou will note that the the baselines of the
    text of the two different types in the last page of your PDF align. That is as
    it should be, given that they are set both 10/11 --meaning 10 point type with
    one point additional leading. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-31 13:13:35'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "I start a new quarter of teaching typography today, so your question has
    helped me concentrate on the nature of type and letters.\r\n\r\nIn their bizarre
    system of scientific nomenclature English scholars, who were educated at the theological
    universities of Oxford and Cambridge, took Greek roots and pinned them together
    to denominate the technologies of the 18th & 19th centuries. Thus <em>photos +
    graphos</em> yields photography.\r\n\r\nSo the Greek root of the word <em>typography
    -- typos + graphos</em> refers to a form of writing/marking based on an impression
    and/or model. All of which infers that <em>type,</em> in its most accurate use,
    refers not to the letters printed or displayed through the means of some predetermined
    model mounted on on a block of wood or metal, or configured within some relative
    system of measurement, but the means by which they reach the page or screen.\r\n\r\nAnd
    as this thread indicates, because the means of measuring this space has been so
    differently applied by various competing interests that any single definition
    of type size that applies to all fonts and systems awaits a standardization of
    a system that daily becomes more diffuse. \r\n\r\n<em>All one needs to do to prove
    these things, is make a glyph that is \u201Ccomplete on the body\u201D a full
    em square character, and see for one\u2019s self, just how it works.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    problem is not one glyph complete on the full em square, it is all the glyphs
    that make up the font \"complete on the full em square.\" Accept the em as the
    limit of vertical height, don't let any aspect of any font extend beyond the limits
    of the vertical space, and then we can define <em>type size.</em> \r\n"
  created: '2008-03-31 13:27:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">any single definition of type size that applies to all fonts and systems
    awaits a standardization of a system that daily becomes more diffuse.\r\n\r\nThis
    isn't right, if you are talking about the current definition: it is standard,
    precise and clear. Digital type size is measured in points, 1/72 of an inch to
    a point. Digital type which is set solid will measure baseline to baseline according
    to the specified point size. If not set solid it will measure as type size plus
    leading. That's the standard, specified size of the printed type. \r\n\r\nWhat
    isn't clear is how the actual characters fit on that grid, which font developers
    can put anywhere   they want. But if you measure vertically from one line to the
    next, you will get standard and consistent results. \r\n\r\nWhen you get to screen
    it is all more complicated, but that is another matter.  "
  created: '2008-03-31 13:40:31'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>What \u201Csize in points\u201D do designers mean when they use a type
    gauge?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.microtype.com/resources/mtruler.pdf</em>\r\n\r\nHave
    you read the comment in the PDF file regarding \"Font Size\"?\r\n\r\n<em>Is is
    possible to measure the size in points of the printed word Type Size? If so, what
    does the printed word Type Size measure in points?</em>\r\n\r\nYou can only measure
    what you can see, so in the last page of your Helvetica PDF you could measure
    the cap height, the stem width, the x-height, the width of the \"T\" ... anything
    you like. If there was more than one line you could also measure the baseline
    skip. All in points, or in mm if you like.\r\n\r\nWhat you cannot measure, because
    you can't see it, is the size of the em.\r\n\r\nJens"
  created: '2008-03-31 13:51:22'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Charles Leonard wrote:\r\n\r\n<em>Accept the em as the limit of vertical
    height, don\u2019t let any aspect of any font extend beyond the limits of the
    vertical space, and then we can define type size.</em>\r\n\r\nFair enough, if
    nothing ever changes in your type design as you go along.\r\n\r\nE.g. what should
    you do if you later extend your font's glyph repertoire and decide to add an especially
    unruly character like the A with ring and acute (\u01FA)? Scale all existing glyphs
    down to fit this one to the em height and make your new version of the font metrically
    incompatible with the old one? Or accept that some parts just don't fit on the
    em and will clash with the descenders?\r\n\r\nJens"
  created: '2008-03-31 14:00:36'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "I agree that digital type is <em>scaled</em> to fit 72 points to the inch.
    The root drawing of the glyphs is measured in relative divisions of the line height
    where line height equals one line.\r\n\r\nAll I am trying to point out is that
    when type was in metal, hot or cold, there were standards of size. Those standards
    varied across both national and manufacturers borders, i.e. the Inland Standard
    adopted by ATF and the standard configurations of matrices imposed by the machine
    disciplines of Linotype and Monotype.\r\n\r\nWhen digital type was bit-mapped
    the data arrays were proportionally constricted and all possible glyphs had to
    be considered in the design of the fonts.\r\n\r\n<em>what should you do if you
    later extend your font\u2019s glyph repertoire and decide to add an especially
    unruly character like the A with ring and acute (\u01FA)?</em>\r\n\r\nSince the
    fonts will be scaled by the system anyway, why not consider providing space for
    all potential characters within the limit of one line of vertical measure?\r\n\r\nSince
    English has become the defacto lingua franca -- I know, I know , and English doesn't
    require character modifiers above or below the line, and the governing operating
    systems that determine the format of the digital fonts were developed in English
    speaking environments, it seems to me that the lack of consideration  of the needs
    of other languages is a bit insensitive. More radically I could speak of linguistic
    imperialism, but that is another subject and direction."
  created: '2008-03-31 15:01:16'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<cite>All one needs to do to prove these things, is make a glyph that is
    \u201Ccomplete on the body\u201D a full em square character, and see for one\u2019s
    self, just how it works.</cite>\r\n\r\nI added a square at the request of Mr.
    Berlow to\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/helve90.pdf\r\n\r\n(see
    final page of this file)\r\n\r\nbut I should mention that in the pop-up note of
    the file\r\n\r\nhttp://www.microtype.com/resources/mtruler.pdf\r\n\r\nit is stated
    that by measuring the cap height you can measure the font size.\r\n\r\nFor instance,
    if you want to measure the headline of the New York Times, you cannot request
    the editor of the newspaper to add \"a full em square\" to the headline. But you
    will have to measure the type size of the New York Times headline without such
    technical help."
  created: '2008-03-31 15:02:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Another question, going  back in the other direction, might be what is the
    value in setting stacked type? If you approach the type users dilemma, you look
    at the concepts of economy, fit, predictability, acceptable readability, efficient
    work process, and suitability to the task at hand. A daily newspaper will not
    only need to have efficient type that gets all the days news in but it must have
    predictable type that fits the system of production with minimal fuss. The paper
    comes out each day--there is no time to muck around. All of these attributes can
    be solved without stacked type. If you need a given number of characters to fit
    on a page, the many combinations of x-height, body height leading, line length,
    h&j, etc., can give you many solutions. The desired outcome is well set type,
    not stacked type. While the advent of PostScript and digital type has muddied
    the waters of exact point size definition, it has also given us the tools to quite
    quickly \"experiment\" and change settings to solve our typesetting problems with
    ease. A style sheet can be changed in a flash--certainly faster than resetting
    foundry type. Newspaper deadlines are shorter than ever and allow story edits
    up to very near presstime. This is made possible with the digital equipment and
    never could have been done with hot metal. The language issue is just another
    attribute. Languages with heavy use of diacritics need a bit more leading. This
    is not shocking. Another way to look at it is that being large or small on the
    body is just another way to adjust baseline-to-baseline spacing. Either lead it
    or pick a type with more generous built in linespace. I don't see why we must
    be slaves to a metal ruler when we no-longer need to solve typographic problems
    with metal type. If we can resolve fit and economy and predictability, etc., with
    digital means, why would I care if the old sense of stacked type is no-longer
    viable?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-31 15:15:21'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"it is stated that by measuring the cap height you can measure the font
    size.\r\n\r\nThis is not universally true, so the statement is false if it is
    intended to be universally true. \r\n\r\n\"if you want to measure the headline
    of the New York Times...\"\r\n\r\nIf you want to know the answer in points, you
    either must have the exact font, or ask for the exact point size. If you want
    to make a headline that is the same height as another headline, and do not know
    the point size, you simple try until the two fonts, the headline you are trying
    to match, and your headline, do match. That is \"how it is done\" often.\r\n\r\n\"I
    added a square at the request of Mr. Berlow\"\r\n\r\nWell, it was more of a suggestion,
    but good work. Now, you can compose this EM beside any other font, and assuming
    all the fonts are set at the same point size, you can see not only the relative
    size of fonts (to the em), but by setting it down the page, how applications treat
    leading, and by implication, where the em is in their composition scheme.\r\n\r\n\"...don\u2019t
    let any aspect of any font extend beyond the limits of the vertical space, and
    then we can define type size.\"\r\nI bet you think they are \"your\" students
    too :)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-31 16:18:52'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<cite>\u201Cit is stated that by measuring the cap height you can measure
    the font size.\r\n\r\nThis is not universally true, so the statement is false
    if it is intended to be universally true.</cite>\r\n\r\nOf course, this is only
    true for those fonts, for which the measurements have been documented by the foundry.
    Nowadays, no foundry documents such things any longer. And even the larger foundries
    such as Linotype do no longer offer printed specimen books containing the full
    character sets of their fonts, let alone technical details, such as measurements
    etc.\r\n\r\nFor instance, in the 1980s, Berthold documented the following measurements
    for all its 2000-odd fonts:\r\n\r\nH-size = 1 (always 1)\r\nx-size = 0.73\r\nk-size
    = 1.00\r\np-size = 0.23\r\nkp-size = 1.23\r\n\xCA-size = 1.23\r\n\xCAp-size =
    1.46\r\n\r\nThe values above were those for Helvetica Roman:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/berthold.gif\r\n\r\nIn
    those days, when you came across a single printed letter of a known typeface,
    it was possible to ascertain the type size of this single letter."
  created: '2008-03-31 17:03:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"In those days, when you came across a single printed letter of a known
    typeface, it was possible to ascertain the type size of this single letter.\"\r\n\r\nThen,
    along came the photostat machine...\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-31 17:59:27'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "A related question:\r\n\r\nI have noticed that Word will sometimes cut off
    the descenders of a font when the font is viewed onscreen, though the print output
    is ok. Is this due to an incorrect setting of some number in the font, so that
    the size is being incorrectly specified, or due to a preset value in Word that
    is insensitive to the size values set in the font?"
  created: '2008-03-31 23:26:47'
- author:
    name: Scott Leyes
    picture: 112337
  body: "\"I have noticed that Word will sometimes cut off the descenders of a font
    when the font is viewed onscreen, though the print output is ok. Is this due to
    an incorrect setting of some number in the font, so that the size is being incorrectly
    specified, or due to a preset value in Word that is insensitive to the size values
    set in the font?\"\r\n\r\nApplications (like Word, XPress, InDesign) work with
    the Operating System to display text/type on screen. QuickDraw & Quartz on the
    Mac (I don't know the equivalent in Windows) are the system components that \"serve
    up\" character bitmaps as requested by the application. More \"Typographically
    Advanced\" applications (like XPress/InDesign) may add to/do their own bitmap
    calculations, so they appear more \"accurate\" on screen, but Word just asks for
    a line of type and drops it where it thinks it should go.\r\n\r\nA lot of faces
    have ascenders/descenders that extend way beyond what the system expects a \"normal\"
    face to be, and these get cut off when the next line is displayed on screen (this
    is all happening in a fraction of a millisecond). Rather than calculate the exceptions
    to the norm, the system and the application ignore it in the quest for speed/efficiency."
  created: '2008-04-01 01:04:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "What do you mean by 'scholarly'?\r\n\r\nIn order to have a definition of
    'type size' -- or any other kind of size -- you need to know what you are measuring
    and how you are measuring it. So the phrase 'type size' by itself is pretty much
    meaningless, since it refers only to what is being measures -- 'type' -- and not
    to how it is being measured. There are very many possible ways to measure type,
    some of which are represented in the digital font file (e.g. cap height, x-height,
    ascender+descender, etc.). So it is meaningful to talk about the cap size, or
    the x-height size, and to note that different typefaces at the same <em>set size</em>
    (see below) may have different cap size or different x-height size, or the same,
    or a combination of e.g. similar cap height but different x-height etc..\r\n\r\nWhen
    you set type at e.g. 10pt, you have a set size (what I sometimes call a nominal
    size). Set size is the height of the 'body' of the type, which in metal type is
    the height of the piece of metal on whose face the glyph appears, and in scaleable
    digital type is the scaled em. The relationship of any of the other measures --
    the cap height, the x-height, etc. -- to the em height is free, and needs to be
    free in order to accomodate typefaces of different vertical proportions (and,
    these days, scripts of different vertical proportion within the same font)."
  created: '2008-04-01 01:42:53'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I just wanted to reiterate what Dave Berlow said: the confusion over the
    definition of type size (which essentially the same issue as the confusion over
    the definition of \"em\") is a consequence of the shift to digital type, and is
    completely unrelated to the question of the nationalities of those involved.\r\n\r\nSee
    also: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Em_%28typography%29\r\n\r\nIn the history of
    digital type there have been very many cases of American and English companies
    being quite insensitive to the needs of the rest of the world. But this is not
    one of those cases.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-04-01 01:48:01'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "I did not mean to imply that current practice sets out to be chauvanistic.
    But, we are left with some historical artifacts that makes any single definition
    of type size impossible. We can define letter size, em size, et al. What we cannot
    say in general is that type set at 100 points will measure 100 points in all features
    of the setting.\r\n\r\nBy way of demo I offer the following image of 100 point
    Futura -- my hobby horse -- set solid and displayed with a 100 point em square.
    In the second row, the p in the current character set is replaced with with an
    image of a p included in the c. 1928 font released for the German market. The
    diagram demonstrates that measured cap line to descender the \"original face\"
    would fit on a 100 point body. Such measurement still excludes the additional
    height of the ascender, which could have been kerned in the original casting,
    but I really doubt it.\r\n\r\nThe artifacts of technologies acrue as annomolies
    in our, imperfect, modern system.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DemoHelp_3620.jpg]"
  created: '2008-04-01 17:40:36'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "Mr. Berlow, I do not use possessives with students, courses, nor the woman
    to whom I am married. Nor am I attempting to argue for a strait-jacketing standard
    where one specification of size fits all needs. I began by pointing out that a
    single definition of an imprecise phrase like type size is impossible, and that
    if the variables were removed from the system we could have a single definition
    what would fit all cases. If I have to seemed to suggect otherwise, please excuse
    any confusion I have caused.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-01 18:09:25'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Could please anyone explain to me, why the texts written by Mr. Hudson and
    Mr. Phinney look, as if they were typeset in 1 point on 1 point, whereas the texts
    by other contributors such as Mr. Leonard have a legible type size.\r\n\r\nsee
    http://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/illegible.jpg\r\n\r\nI use Win XP and IE
    6.\r\n\r\nBy the way, this text just written by me is as tiny as the texts written
    by Mr. Hudson and Mr. Phinney. I did not specify any font size for my text, but
    entered plain ASCII text.\r\n\r\nOr is this an April 1st joke by those who run
    Typophile?"
  created: '2008-04-01 18:29:57'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Lenhard:\r\n\r\nConcerning Futura, you should give a try to the old Berthold
    version, because here everything that was needed for German texts (including the
    capital letter umlaut dots) was entirely inside the em square.\r\n\r\nsee http://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/futura.gif\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-01 19:26:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">is this an April 1st joke by those who run Typophile?\r\n\r\nTomorrow you'll
    be able to tell whether this is part of a worldwide conspiracy, or just a joke
    :) "
  created: '2008-04-01 20:44:30'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "Uli:\r\nThank you for steering me to this version. The fact that in this
    Berthold version the descenders and ascenders are not as long as in the U.S. version
    helps explain why in the font in common circulation the face doesn't fit the line
    height, and provides a glimmer of why later -- post metal -- versions of the font
    are bigger, and visually heavier, than what was intended by Paul Renner and originally
    released by the Bauer foundry."
  created: '2008-04-02 16:11:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Charles L, the relative length of extenders doesn't determine whether the
    glyphs \"fit the line height\". This has to do with the scaling of the glyphs
    relative to the digital em. \r\n\r\nAny problems with the look of the font--and
    I understand that some digital versions are better than others--have to do with
    the way the glyphs are drawn, not the overall scaling. For the scaling can be
    compensated for by the way you specify the point size and leading in the digital
    font. "
  created: '2008-04-02 16:48:25'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "Mr. Berkson, understood, one can increase the line setting value of any face
    to accomodate cap height, ascender, descender, diacritical, and so forth. But
    what interests me, and this is from a historical point of view, is how, where,
    and when these various arrangements occurred on the bodies of metal type. How
    one font can have different sizes at different times and locations of its production.
    In this context enlarging the font on the em, as appears to have happened in the
    most common versions of Futura, disguises Futura's familial relationship to its
    contemporary serif-less romans -- Gill Sans and Kabel.\r\n\r\nUli, didn't mean
    to highjack the thread. I'll drop out now.  Charles"
  created: '2008-04-03 19:17:07'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Uli, didn\u2019t mean to highjack the thread.\r\n\r\nMr. Leonard:\r\n\r\nDon't
    worry about hijacking :-)\r\n\r\nI learnt with pleasure that you published a book
    about Futura and Renner a few days ago. What beats me is that the book is in English,
    but the publisher is a German. Is there no interest in the U.S. for such a book?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.libri.de/shop/action/productDetails/7272678/charles_leonard_paul_renner_and_futura_383645954X.html"
  created: '2008-04-03 19:41:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Charles--and call me Bill--I don't think you are 'hijacking' the thread.
    I think what you are referring to is something real, and has to do with something
    lost in the transition to digital type from metal. And maybe it is what concerned
    Uli.  \r\n\r\nNow, as I have at last understood it in trying to explain it, the
    digital em is just a unit of measure within the font, and all applications are
    supposed to scale the line height (vertical baseline to baseline with no leading)
    as one em, the point size of the type specified in the application. But the digital
    em no longer bears a unique relationship to any relative measurement within the
    glyph. Before, in metal, everything in the glyph was within an em dimension. Now
    not. \r\n\r\nWhat I think may have been lost is that in scaling the type for metal,
    the size of the characters, as they fitted on the em, were tested to look best
    or most readable at that size. And the adjustment for size may have involved adjustment
    of the glyph relative to the em, as well as x height etc. Now, with the ability
    to resize type at will, the type design is not telling us: this works at this
    size best. That's been lost. What's been gained is more flexibility. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-03 21:47:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"What beats me is that the book is in English, but the publisher is a German.
    Is there no interest in the U.S. for such a book?\"\r\n\r\nThere certainly is
    from me!\r\n\r\nCharles, is your book available from a vendor who sells and ships
    to the U.S.?\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: I remember your thread on Typophile when
    you announced your thesis and would be interested in purchasing the printed copy."
  created: '2008-04-03 21:59:59'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"But the digital em no longer bears a unique relationship to any relative
    measurement within the glyph. Before, in metal, everything in the glyph was within
    an em dimension. Now not.\"\r\n\r\nI beg to disagree, as I understand your phrasing
    of it. All of a glyph's measures are in units of the em, so they are 'not' at
    all unrelated. Any time one quotes the measure of a glyph or a part of a glyph,
    it is relative to the upm, and thus are all glyphs properly proportioned into
    a font in 'units of the em'. Your cap H stem is 100/1000ths of the em, vs. the
    111/1000ths of the O's stem. We just don't have enough time to say /1000ths every
    time. And across fonts, these measures, assuming the units per em are the same,
    (1000, or 2048 per em, e.g.), usefully, are '1:1' for comparison. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-03 22:55:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I guess I wasn't being clear. \r\n\r\nWhat I was trying to say is just that
    where the glyph is placed is no longer constrained by having the top and bottom
    of the character within a vertical span of one em of measurement, as the em is
    defined in the font. That also means there is less constraint on length of extenders.
    \r\n\r\nAs you say, the same scale is used throughout the font, as the upm is
    defined centrally for the whole font, not for each glyph. "
  created: '2008-04-03 23:56:35'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "<em>What beats me is that the book is in English, but the publisher is a
    German.</em>\r\n\r\nThe publisher is VDM -- Verlag Dr. M\xFCller. The firm is
    an academic publisher that specializes in POD versions of theses and dissertations.
    The connection is that prior to 1922 Paul Renner had an exclusive design contract
    with Verlag Georg M\xFCller, an antecedent firm. The publisher has a web site
    with links to on-line booksellers, but be warned the book is priced in Euros making
    it a bit steep in our teensy greenbacks."
  created: '2008-04-04 14:46:45'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "<em>What I think may have been lost is that in scaling the type for metal
    \u2026 the glyph relative to the em, as well as x height etc.</em>\r\n\r\nBill,
    that is the issue and I agree that flexibility is a worthwhile price. All of which
    is why while we can agree on a definition of what type size is, its application
    must vary in every font instance. \r\n\r\nSince it is the height of the body,
    the em, that provides the basis for the units that determine the unit count that
    controls glyph width, side-bearings, and kern offsets it is initially surprising
    that the glyph height compared to the em can be so unrestrained. Font designers
    and engineers spend a great deal of time in defining set width and kerning pairs.
    And as long as these relative measurements are sensitively set the effective fixed
    \ measurement, be it points, millimeters, or barleycorns doesn't really matter.
    What does matter, for text columns anyway, is the character count in the setting
    width.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-04 15:05:41'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Bergson:\r\n\r\n> <cite>But the digital em no longer bears a unique relationship
    to any relative measurement within the glyph. Before, in metal, everything in
    the glyph was within an em dimension. Now not.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis has the drawback
    that nowadays you cannot set a text solid (e.g. 10 on 10 point) without danger
    of clipping. Furthermore it is no longer easy to specify the <strong>minimum leading</strong>,
    i.e. the leading required at least so that clippling of accented letters does
    not take place, but on the other hand no space is wasted at all on the printed
    page by too big leading.\r\n\r\nHere an example:\r\n\r\nI have just received two
    big lawbooks. Each book comprises approx. 3000 large-format pages printed on India
    paper. In order to compress as much text as possible into these 3000 pages, the
    lawbook publisher typeset these huge books in Adobe's Bembo, 8 on 8 point, i.e.
    8 point solid, i.e. without leading. However, when an accented word occurs in
    the text (e.g. \"A circumflex\"), it is clipped. Now my question, which is not
    an easy one:\r\n\r\nWhat <strong>minimum leading</strong> is required <strong>exactly</strong>
    for Adobe's Bembo Std (BemboStd.otf) so that on the one had no clipping of accented
    letters takes place, but on the other hand no unnecesary space is wasted on the
    printed page by too generous leading?\r\n\r\nIn the good old days, the answer
    was easy, because typesetting solid did not result in clipping of accented letters.
    But today, mathematical calculations are necessary to find out the minimum leading.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-04 16:48:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If one were to take Bembo 8pt in InDesign or Quark and type a lowercase \"g\",
    type a return and then type the Acircumflex (or whatever diacritic glyph that
    is in the text of the book) and then adjust leading to just avoiding overlap,
    you could quickly make such a determination. I assume the rare Aringacute would
    be the worst offender (or anything in Vietnamese) but just base your decision
    on the language used in your book.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-04 17:21:07'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Sorry, Mr. Lozos, I was speaking of \"exactly\".\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-04 17:46:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">no unnecesary space is wasted on the printed page by too generous leading?\r\n\r\n>I
    was speaking of \u201Cexactly\u201D.\r\n\r\n\"Too generous leading\" is an aesthetic
    judgment, so there is no 'exact' you can specify objectively. As far as the minimum
    leading that will avoid vertical clashes, Chris's procedure will do that for you. "
  created: '2008-04-04 18:13:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Sorry, Mr. Lozos, I was speaking of \u201Cexactly\u201D.\"\r\n\r\nUli,
    but it is exactly. You can type any value in the leading field down to 3 decimal
    places (one thousandth of a point) which is as exact as ever in the history of
    typesetting. You did not exactly define clipping or overlap in your statement
    but you can define that for yourself and use that value as the x factor. If clipping
    is zero then touching is your value. If you consider clipping as 1 thousandth
    of a point, then use that as the x value. That is much smaller than a brass or
    copper was in handset type.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-04 18:26:17'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: In photocomposition, the "minimum interline kp spacing" (k set directly below
    p) was 0.01 mm. So "minimum leading" would mean what was formerly achieved by
    "setting solid". Since a 3000-page book may contain innumerable clipping situations,
    an exact calculation of the minimum leading would be necessary.
  created: '2008-04-04 18:28:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "In your example, the value of 0.01 mm is used as exact. In my example, 0.001
    points are used as example of exact. Pick either one, the option is yours and
    not the least bit complex a calculation.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-04 18:35:13'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Lozos:\r\n\r\nIn the meantime, I made calculations concerning Helvetica
    (instead of Bembo). Here, the exact minimum leading for any type size of Helvetica
    Roman is 15.6 % of the respective type size.\r\n\r\nsee http://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/helve865.pdf\r\n\r\nHowever,
    such calculations are not possible for typesetters who are not familiar with font
    editors so that the ordinary compositor in a printing plant will never be able
    to calculate the minimum leading required for solid setting of Helvetica, Bembo
    or any other PS, OTF or TTF font."
  created: '2008-04-04 18:45:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Uli,\r\nI don't have your Bembo so I used another example. Here is a screenshot
    of Bulmer showing the precise value. It took me 30 seconds.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Uli8_5594.png]\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-04 18:51:11'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Lozos:\r\n\r\nIf you used Adobe MT Bulmer OTF version, then e.g. the
    \"\xA7\"-sign would be \"deeper\" then the \"g\", hence the value with \"g\" would
    not be exact. In the case of Bulmer, I calculate 8 point on 8.84 point, since
    the percentage would be 10.5 % for minimum leading."
  created: '2008-04-04 19:06:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "As I said before, you can choose which ever glyphs to measure that suit your
    font, language, and book job. Your calculation of 8.84 sounds quite reasonable.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-04 19:10:02'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...the ordinary compositor in a printing plant will never be able to calculate
    the minimum leading required for solid setting of Helvetica, Bembo or any other
    PS, OTF or TTF font.\"\r\n\r\nAll the data exists in the text of a document and
    the selected fonts in the formats you name, to do such a calculation, (i.e. all
    apps can know what glyphs are selected and all of the font formats carry glyph
    specific extent data). If no one has written a program to sort through the glyph
    repertoire of a text selection, flag the highest and lowest glyphs and determine
    the minimal/optimal leading for a given font, I'd be surprised, or maybe not...\r\n\r\nThe
    fact that we don't have such a thing built-in to apps, I suppose, means composers
    who care to avoid vertical crashing, do so interactively, as Dez so adroitly demonstrates.
    Knowing what the glyph repertoire is, checking that tallest glyph against a descender,
    and leading accordingly. Changing the glyph repertoire can change the answer.
    Changing the font can change the answer. Changing the size can change the answer.
    It's just like, changing the question, can change the answer.\r\n\r\nEuropeans
    have a similar process? Mentally filtering for A-rings, but otherwise leading
    to taste in the presence of another accented cap vs. the descender. It's a part
    of, typography. If a composer wanted only to pour text, and print quality typography,
    they'll need to either select from the 1,000's of fonts that behave 'normally'
    relative to their script/glyph use (which many 1000's of fonts do), write some
    software as described above, customize some fonts, or a combination of these things.\r\n\r\nThe
    fact that it is not a big problem with digital type, is also the reason the answer
    to the original question, is not simple.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-05 15:18:21'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Huh? No program or calculation is necessary. The piece of data needed is
    called the font bounding box (Font BBox) and is an intrinsic part of every TrueType
    or OpenType font. MS Office applications base their standard line spacing on the
    Font BBox (bbox plus 20%).\r\n\r\nIf you are using FontLab, go to File > Font
    Info > Metrics and Dimensions > Key Dimensions. At the bottom is the Font BBox
    info. Now, it's true that FontLab has to calculate this from the glyphs in the
    font (and it does so automatically), but once the font is made, nobody else does.\r\n\r\nFor
    Adobe's Bembo Std (licensed from Monotype), I find the BBox by poking it with
    a tool (could use FontLab, could use OS font APIs if the font were installed),
    and see that the regular face has a Y min of -233, and a Y max of 896, so the
    value Uli is looking for would be (233 + 896) or 1129. MS Word's default spacing
    would be (233+896)*1.2, or 1354.8.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-04-05 18:54:50'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Thank you very much, Mr. Phinney.\r\n\r\nAt last, someone comes along and
    contributes some arithmetic calculations.\r\n\r\nHowever, what was required for
    the lawbook mentioned above was the <strong>minimum leading</strong> for Adobe
    Bembo. The <strong>default spacing</strong> will not do here, because it is usually
    greater than the minimum leading (or minimum line-to-line distance). In case of
    Bembo, by using the bounding box data supplied by Mr. Phinney, the minimum leading
    calculation for 8 point Bembo is as follows:\r\n\r\n(233+896) / 1000 * 8 = 9.032
    point\r\n\r\nThis means, for minimum leading, you will have to typeset the text
    in Bembo 8 point on 9.03 point.\r\n\r\n(MS Word does not permit of exactly 9.032
    point leading or line-to-line space, for it rounds off to 0.05 point fractions).\r\n\r\nThe
    reason, why nobody in this thread could supply a scholarly definition of type
    size is quite simple: The notion of the type size does not exist any longer, as
    far as digital fonts are concerned. In the \"good old days\", i.e. in the foundry
    type era, the size of type was measured from the hightest to lowest characters,
    as shown in this old American printing handbook:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/sizeoftype.gif\r\n\r\nAnd
    the scholarly definition of type size usually met with in books at that time was
    (in my wording) as follows:\r\n\r\n<strong>Type size is the vertical dimension
    from the top of the highest ascender</strong> (in case of Latin types) <strong>to
    the bottom of the lowest descender, measured in typographical points</strong>
    (e.g. using the American point = 1/72 American inch).\r\n\r\nThis definition for
    foundry type could be directly transferred to the modern notion of the vertical
    dimension of the glyph bounding box, but there are three major drawbacks:\r\n\r\n-
    Firstly, the vertical dimension of the bounding box is expressed in relative units,
    whereas the type size of a foundry type letter was expressed in absolute points.\r\n\r\n-
    Secondly, no user of a word processing program (as opposed to the user of a font
    editor such as Fontlab etc.) sees this relative numerical unit value of the vertical
    dimension of the bounding box in his application program (MS Word, Adobe InDesign
    etc.).\r\n\r\n- Thirdly, leading in the sense of foundry type does not exist any
    longer. Remember: Leading in the foundry type era was the space <strong>between</strong>
    two lines, whereas the usual word processor programs measure the \"line size\",
    see here for example:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/linesize.gif\r\n\r\nSo,
    you cannot enter the \"type size\", you can only enter the \"line size\", which
    is defined as the \"line-to-line distance\", measured in points. If the old notion
    of \"type size\" still existed, then you would be able to enter the \"ascender-to-descender
    distance\", i.e. the <strong>absolute</strong> vertical dimension of the glyph
    bounding box in points (not in units), but this is not possible (as least not
    in the word programs known to me).\r\n\r\nOne of the absurd consequences of all
    this is the fact that two congruent headlines may have different \"type sizes\",
    as shown in the beginning of the thread in this file:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/helve90.pdf
    (page 10) \r\n\r\nIn view of this Helvetica sample shown on page 10, Mr. Berlow
    said:\r\n\r\n\"I would say, both samples are typeset in the same <strong>point
    size</strong>\".\r\n\r\nBut this is not correct, because for the first typeset
    word \"Helvetica\", the \"point size\" entered in MS Word was 90, and for the
    second typeset word \"Helvetica\", the \"point size\" entered in MS Word was 100.\r\n\r\nIn
    my opinion, the point size should refer to the vertical dimension of the letters,
    not of the line, i.e. when you enter e.g. the number \"36\" for Times as shown
    here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/linesize.gif\r\n\r\nthis should
    denote that you enter the vertical size in points from the highest to the lowest
    characters of the font (as specified by relative units through the bounding box)."
  created: '2008-04-05 20:52:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">in the foundry type era, the size of type was measured from the hightest
    to lowest characters\r\n\r\nUli, your source is not correct. The type size in
    foundry type is normally the same as the 'body size', the vertical height of the
    piece of metal. This includes not only the face, but also the 'shoulder' or 'beard',
    which is the part of the metal between the face and the edge of the metal block.
    And for mechanical reasons there was almost always some shoulder. \r\n\r\nAnd
    the face could be smaller or larger on the body. Also sometimes type was also
    cast on a larger body, so you'd have \"12 on 13\" or something like that. \r\n\r\nSo
    even in metal things were more complicated. \r\n\r\n>In my opinion, the point
    size should refer to the vertical dimension of the letters, not of the line\r\n\r\nAs
    the above indicates, this was not ever true, even for metal type. "
  created: '2008-04-05 21:07:30'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Berkson:\r\n\r\n> Also sometimes type was also cast on a larger body,
    so you\u2019d have \u201C12 on 13\u201D or something like that.\r\n\r\nThis is
    correct. Technically, for hot-metal text typeset in 12 point on 13 point, you
    could either set the text in 12 point and insert a 1-line brass reglet for leading.
    Or you could cast letters containing the 1-point leading as part of the lead-metal
    body. But this does not change my definition. In both cases, you have 12 point
    text, irrespective of whether the leading is brass reglet or part of the cast
    lead-metal letter.\r\n\r\nCorrection: \"The word \"brass\" is not correct. For
    leading, a special alloy was used, harder than foundry type."
  created: '2008-04-05 21:38:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Uli, maybe I wasn't clear. \r\n\r\nBecause of the existence of the shoulder
    (which is lower than the face), the body size of metal type is almost always larger
    than the distance on the face from the top of the highest to the bottom of the
    lowest character. And how big the shoulders are varied from font to font. Hence
    even in metal there is not a unique relationship  between what is now called the
    'bounding box' and the body or type size. \r\n\r\nHence your definition of 'type
    size' is not correct for metal. \r\n "
  created: '2008-04-05 22:01:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"The reason, why nobody in this thread could supply a scholarly definition
    of type size is quite simple: The notion of the type size does not exist any longer,
    as far as digital fonts are concerned.\"\r\n\r\nThis is what we all have been
    trying to tell you, Uli. The value in the measurement and how it was done in the
    metal type era has gone the way of the steam locomotive. A fireman on a steam-powered
    train years ago could have told you how many shovels full of coal it would take
    to travel from point A to point B and he would be able to see if enough remained
    in the coal car for the journey. Today, they would use diesel fuel instead of
    coal but they would have no need of knowing about calculating coal consumption
    or translating the rate of coal consumption and translating it to diesel fuel
    consumption. Today, we use the tools of today for both train travel and copyfitting
    of type. We can copyfit much quicker and more accurately today than ever before.
    Yes, this digital way makes obsolete the methods we had become accustomed to but
    the end result is that we come to a more accurate answer and more speedilly than
    before. That seems like a fair trade off.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-05 22:13:59'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Although I mostly agree with Chris L, I'd add that there is no techical reason
    an application could not allow you to set type in terms of the Font BBox size.\r\n\r\nActually,
    Word and its friends do, essentially. The complication is that their base spacing
    is 120% or 6/5 of the \"set solid\" BBox value. But you can set spacing in Word
    as 5/6 of that (0.833333) and set the type solid on the Font BBox. You'll be doing
    it without ever knowing what the spacing is in points or any other absolute measurement,
    but it will work.\r\n\r\nThat being said, the problem with this is that heaven
    help you if you revise the font in a way that, say, adds a glyph that has the
    effect of enlarging the BBox. Also, sometimes you simply might not want certain
    glyphs to affect the overall line spacing. Just because there are some big ornaments
    in the font doesn't mean you want the spacing of text to loosen, IMO.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-04-05 23:22:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Actually, Word and its friends do, essentially. The complication is that
    their base spacing is 120% or 6/5 of the \u201Cset solid\u201D BBox value.</em>\r\n\r\nAs
    far as I know, in most situations Word and most other Windows apps use the OS/2
    WinAscent and WinDescent values to determine default linespacing, and those values
    may or may not actually correspond exactly to the font BBox. They certainly shouldn't
    be smaller than the BBbox, but in quite a lot of fonts they are padded to provide
    extra linespacing. There are a few reasons why the OS/2 Win metrics values might
    exceed the BBox, of which the best would be forward-thinking on the part of the
    font developer who knows that a future version of the font is likely to include
    added support for Vietnamese or some other taller glyphs, and in order to be able
    to both maintain linespacing compatibility and avoid clipping of the new glyphs
    a canny developer might set the OS/2 metrics larger than the current BBox in anticipation.
    There have been a couple of times when I really wish I'd done that!\r\n\r\nNote
    also that in Word 2007 the default linespacing in non 2003 compatibility mode
    is 1.15 spacing."
  created: '2008-04-06 01:44:43'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Berkson:\r\n\r\n<cite>Because of the existence of the shoulder (which
    is lower than the face), the body size of metal type is almost always larger than
    the distance on the face from the top of the highest to the bottom of the lowest
    character.</cite>\r\n\r\nHere you are right too. Later in photocomposition, the
    \"minimum leading\" could be zero (although, e.g. Berthold used a default \"minimum
    interline spacing\" of at least 0.01 mm), but in hot-metal composition, the \"minimum
    leading\" was more than that, due to technical restrictions mentioned by you.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-06 14:30:46'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Phinney:\r\n\r\n<cite>... that their base spacing is 120% or 6/5 of the
    \u201Cset solid\u201D BBox value.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis technical information given
    by you was very useful.\r\n\r\nI at once made a test and I confirm your information
    that e.g. MS Word 10 (run on Windows XP) adds exactly 20%. My test is shown here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/default.pdf\r\n\r\nSee
    also the \"psychiatric note\" at the end of the file.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-06 14:33:53'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Huh? No program or calculation is necessary\" and more Thomas, \"Now, it\u2019s
    true that FontLab has to calculate this from the glyphs in the font (and it does
    so automatically), but once the font is made, nobody else does.\"\r\n\r\nOh? When
    the 'font' contains all of the glyphs for all of the languages, i.e. it is sized
    to the em and populated with glyphs at the foundry for general use, and not by
    'a user's' glyph requirements, and the requirement for a particular 'text' or
    'document', perhaps from use of only english or just numbers, doesn't use everything
    in the font, then the font's bounding box is not the bounding box the user needs
    to know, if they need to know...you know?\r\n\r\nThe calculation of the bounding
    box required by the particular repertoire for a particular text, does not exist.
    The bounding box is 'foundry font' specific, not 'use of font' specific, understandably,
    but incompletely in my opinion.\r\n\r\nUli: \"In my opinion, the point size should
    refer to the vertical dimension of the letters, not of the line\"\r\nThen take
    your opinion, and make a whole library of fonts that work that way. I'll be waiting
    with a team of shrinks, or maybe not.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-04-07 13:57:23'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I agree with both David Berlow's and John Hudson's comments above. And I
    don't know how I forgot that Windows is using usWinAscent and usWinDescent. These
    are commonly and by default the same as the font BBox values, but not *necessarily*
    so.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-04-09 03:08:54'
date: '2008-03-29 09:44:08'
title: Who can give a scholarly definition of "type size"?

---
