---
author:
  name: smarks
  picture: 109688
body: "There have been a <a href=\"http://www.typography.com/ask/showBlog.php?blogID=93\">several</a>
  <a href=\"http://gethelveticaoffourmoney.com/\">comments</a> <a href=\"http://daringfireball.net/linked/2008/april#thu-03-helvetica\">about</a>
  the design of the new US five-dollar bill. In particular, they've criticized the
  large Helvetica \"5\" on the back.\r\n\r\nThey're right. This would have been much
  better:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/five-spot-mod_3661.png]\r\n\r\nYuk,
  yuk, yuk. OK, easy target.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I really don\u2019t think it matters what anybody does, America\u2019s money
    is going to keep looking like crap. Sort of like our passports. Good taste and
    the US Government are just sort of antithetical."
  created: '2008-04-04 17:02:25'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "too bad american money IS crap, not just the paper it's printed on either...
    :^(\r\n\r\nthe govt should do something like the UK mint did: http://www.typographer.org/2008/04/new-uk-coin-designs.html\r\n\r\n*edit*\r\nah,
    those H&FJ guys thought the same thing!"
  created: '2008-04-04 17:04:20'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "Aren't pennies costing two cents to make right now? That's pretty bad too.\r\n\r\nI
    personally would rather see Party LET instead of Comic Sans."
  created: '2008-04-04 17:08:22'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Sigh... we used to have the best looking money in the world. Next to our
    original designs, foreign currencies tended to look like play money.\r\n\r\nI
    was pretty upset when I got my new $5 altho am benumbed by previous redesigns
    as well. \r\n\r\nI am also rather amused by the attempts to make life easier for
    the visually impaired. For example in my subway station there is a tiny little
    plaque with some braille on it, on one of many many columns on the platform. First
    of all, by the time you've made it into the station, thru the turnstile and onto
    the platform, the plaque is pretty useless, innit? Second of all, if you are blind,
    how in creation are you going to even find this silly little plaque on a random
    column. But I'm sure it's complying with some law, somewhere."
  created: '2008-04-04 17:16:24'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Aren\u2019t pennies costing two cents to make right now? That\u2019s
    pretty bad too.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd we can\u2019t even outsource the labor because
    our money is worth so much less everywhere else\u2026"
  created: '2008-04-04 17:25:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "We could just give up on the worthless penny and stop at the nickel? The
    other option is to end the use of cash and have a totally electronic system. The
    street-corner musicians would hate that, as well as the guys in New York who try
    to sell knock-off Rollex watches out of a briefcase on the streets :-)\r\n\r\n
    ChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-04 17:34:12'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "Dwiggins' 1932 \"Towards a Reform of the Paper Currency\"  is always worth
    a read on this topic and should be required reading for anyone having anything
    to do with currency design. The essay is sarcastic, hilarious (at times rather
    un-PC), but he makes some great points in addressing the problem<em> \"It is not
    possible to discuss the designs [for the paper currency] without heat. They infuriate
    you because you cannot get at them. They are beyond the reach of criticism. They
    are safe\u2014as an idiot is safe anywhere, in any community, savage or civilized.
    They are made immune by hideous deformity. . .\"</em>\r\n\r\nMy attempts at reprinting
    the book were stalled with dead-ends in securing rights, but I thought an image
    of the cover might be appreciated:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dwiggins-currency-cover_5943.jpg]"
  created: '2008-04-04 17:47:22'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "If we stopped at the nickel that would give all people the right to round
    up. \r\n\r\nOur money totally depresses me. I agree with Patty that our currency
    used to be good. But I  have to say I loved the <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dutch_Gulden#Banknotes\">Dutch
    banknotes</a> designed by R.D.E. Oxenaar. "
  created: '2008-04-04 18:00:31'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>We could just give up on the worthless penny and stop at the nickel?
    </cite>\r\n\r\nNickels cost 10 cents to make.\r\n\r\n<cite>If we stopped at the
    nickel that would give all people the right to round up.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis ends
    up happening anyway - people store pennies in jars, leave them lying on the street,
    etc. \r\n\r\nThere was an interesting article on this in the New Yorker a few
    weeks back:\r\nhttp://www.newyorker.com/reporting/2008/03/31/080331fa_fact_owen\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-04 18:07:05'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Friends of mine in Munich designed their own currency, see here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.transnationalrepublic.org/centralbank/payola/\r\n\r\nThey
    used a real currency press."
  created: '2008-04-04 18:10:11'
- author:
    name: BruceS63
    picture: 111542
  body: Paul, those are some good looking coins. Thanks for sharing the link.
  created: '2008-04-04 18:50:16'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: I am completely unimpressed by all the new US notes. Hideous. Most of them
    look as if they have been dropped in puddles of mud, and the ten looks as though
    it has dried blood all over it. What I really don't understand, are those little
    yellow bits on the back -- looks to me like a swarm of bees descending upon our
    dear capitol buildings.
  created: '2008-04-04 19:01:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "ALL of that stuff has to do with anti-counterfeiting measures taken by the
    Bureau of Engraving. If any of you get to Washington or if they ever do a TypeCon
    here, take the tour of the Bureau and get the tidbits of info.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-04 19:04:44'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "A quote from this thread has been ripped from its context and Twitter'd here:
    http://twitter.com/typophile\r\n\r\nCarry on."
  created: '2008-04-04 19:50:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Would someone explain what \"Twitter\" is all about? I went to their site
    but I don't get it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-04 19:54:49'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Would someone explain what \u201CTwitter\u201D is all about? I went
    to their site but I don\u2019t get it.</cite>\r\n\r\nRemember how people nobody
    needed to know about used to constantly blog about every aspect of their lives?
    Now they do it by constantly sending text messages to the twitter servers, so
    that everyone can know every detail of everyone else\u2019s daily life as it happens,
    instead of waiting for it to get blogged every three hours. Then they all post
    comments about it on Facebook or Myspace or whatever\u2026"
  created: '2008-04-04 20:01:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Snidely_6100.png]\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-04 20:13:55'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I am doing a bit of cleaning up and happened upon an older Avante Garde magazine
    that hat a dollar bill redesign contest where various artists expressed themselves.
    Funny how we have the same issues now.\r\n\r\nAlways loved the cover of Funkadelic's
    <cite>America Eats Its Young</cite> as well.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.inkblotmagazine.com/rev-archive/funkadelic.htm\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-04 20:43:12'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Twitter is a microblog. Polls show that if people had to give up a web log
    or their Twitter, they would give up their blog. It's a bit like instant messaging
    in a non-linear format that people don't have to respond to.\r\n\r\nThe best (faked?
    you tell me) corporate Twitter feed: http://twitter.com/WaMuWhooHoo"
  created: '2008-04-04 20:54:02'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I don't get twitter either. So it's just sound bites that don't seem to link
    to the actual pages themselves? What's the use of that?
  created: '2008-04-04 21:09:28'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: I'd rather listen to a bird.
  created: '2008-04-04 21:20:00'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I think Twitter is a great way to share bits of things you come across as
    the day progresses. Granted I've almost totally given up on chat and twitter because
    they are both distractions.
  created: '2008-04-04 21:28:25'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "\"Aren\u2019t pennies costing two cents to make right now? That\u2019s pretty
    bad too.\"\r\n\r\nIt will raise up after the Smart Monkey is gone..."
  created: '2008-04-04 21:50:46'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "<em>It will raise up after the Smart Monkey is gone...</em>\r\n\r\nThat is
    our hope anyway.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-04 22:03:19'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>It will raise up after the Smart Monkey is gone...</em>\r\n\r\nNo, it
    will not. The damage is already done, and I suspect it will take years for it
    to repair. I don't think we've hit bottom yet, either."
  created: '2008-04-04 22:07:05'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "I'm just going to convert to a better designed, and more valuable currency:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CheapDeal_MonopolyMoney_4510.jpg]"
  created: '2008-04-04 22:26:30'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I don\u2019t get twitter either. So it\u2019s just sound bites that
    don\u2019t seem to link to the actual pages themselves? What\u2019s the use of
    that?</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, it keeps the Web 2.0 bubble going a little longer.\r\n\r\n<cite>Polls
    show that if people had to give up a web log or their Twitter, they would give
    up their blog.</cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe so, but I\u2019m pretty sure a more useful
    poll would show that most people can\u2019t really find any use for most of Web
    2.0. Anyway, right now I\u2019d much rather just give up the internet and sit
    under the cherry trees filing away at metal punches. "
  created: '2008-04-04 23:11:37'
- author:
    name: smarks
    picture: 109688
  body: "I liked the currency from the game of \"Life\" with portraits fake people
    with names like Ransom A. Treasure and G. I. Luvmoney and Art Linkletter (oops
    he was real!). That currency was clearly more valuable -- it went up to $100,000!\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Marshal Bazaine
    body: 'Your posting sure brought back memories -- my family, friends and I played
      "Life" all the time.  We had the 1960 "Centennial" Edition (I think it was the
      Centennial of the Milton Bradley Co.) that featured Art Linkletter on the box,
      and on the $100,000 bill.  I heard he was given the game''s highest denomination
      as a "thank you" for endorsing the game.  In that, he even beat out the company''s
      Founder -- Milton Bradley, himself (who only got onto the $50,000 bill)!    The
      others were all "made up" old-tyme folks:  G. I. Luvmoney ($20K); Hesperia Mint
      ($10K); Cyrus Bonanza ($5K); Basil O. Cash ($1K); and Ransom A. Treasure ($500).   I
      always liked Life money best of all, cause it looked more like real money.  By
      comparison, Monopoly, Easy Money, Masterpiece, etc all had very fakey-looking
      currency!    '
    created: '2013-04-28 02:18:57'
  created: '2008-04-04 23:13:09'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "<cite>So it\u2019s just sound bites that don\u2019t seem to link to the actual
    pages themselves? What\u2019s the use of that?</cite>\r\n\r\nMicro-blogging isn't
    meant to link to anything.\r\n\r\n<cite>Maybe so, but I\u2019m pretty sure a more
    useful poll would show that most people can\u2019t really find any use for most
    of Web 2.0.</cite>\r\n\r\nI would put money on a user poll that suggests exactly
    the opposite of that statement. The web has never been more useful than it is
    now."
  created: '2008-04-04 23:23:53'
- author:
    name: jacobh
  body: "Zara, the yellow dots are the [[http://www.sscnet.ucla.edu/geog/gessler/collections/steg-eurion-constellation.htm|EURion
    Constellation]] which feature on almost every bank note in current circulation.
    The idea is that when a colour photocopier senses 5 small yellow circles arranged
    in a pattern similar to the Orion Constellation, it will refuse to copy.\r\n\r\nInterestingly,
    although they have been around for a while, no country has officially admitted
    their existence and so they have only recently been discovered. There is also
    some currency detection software built into more recent scanners and imaging software
    which is still [[http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~sjm217/projects/currency/|not understood]].\r\n\r\n-Jacob"
  created: '2008-04-04 23:25:02'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: I understand *why* the yellow is there, I am familiar with the the security
    features of the bills, I was referring to the poor choice of visual design. I
    have not seen those yellow dots on older bills.
  created: '2008-04-04 23:32:51'
- author:
    name: jacobh
  body: "Zara:\r\n\r\nApologies! I have only recently come across the EURion constellation
    and still find it interesting that such a thing exists and apparently existed
    on many bank notes for at least six years before detection. I expect the colour
    was chosen by which ever of the central European banks first came up with the
    idea as it does not stand out so much on the old DM and Franc notes (which I think
    were the first to use it). The most interesting concealment must, however, be
    on the old [[http://www.sscnet.ucla.edu/geog/gessler/collections/20-pound-eurion.jpg|\xA320]]
    British note.\r\n\r\n-Jacob"
  created: '2008-04-05 01:40:01'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: Jacob - no need to apologize :) Thanks for the info!
  created: '2008-04-05 02:25:00'
- author:
    name: smarks
    picture: 109688
  body: "<cite>There is also some currency detection software built into more recent
    scanners and imaging software which is still not understood.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    certainly is effective... when I mocked up the image that started this thread,
    Photoshop CS2 popped up a rather startling warning dialog. It let me do the edits
    and save, but apparently printing had been disabled. (I didn't try.)\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-05 03:07:50'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "<body>\r\n<p>I guess a better epithet is required to illustrate the longitude
    and wheight \r\n  of so infamous personages (not those in the links):<br>\r\n
    \ <br>\r\n  <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palpatine\">Emperor Palpatine</a>
    &amp; \r\n  <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Darth_Vader\">Lord Vader</a><br>\r\n
    \ <br>\r\n  Yes, it will take sometime for a recovery, and it will require a Hero
    or Heroine! \r\n  to fix it. </p>\r\n\r\nReality surpass fiction.\r\n</body>\r\n</html>"
  created: '2008-04-05 15:50:24'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: <cite>Holding Out for a Hero</cite> must be huge in Zimbabwe.
  created: '2008-04-05 16:11:52'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Well, with all due respect you have some ugly money.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2008-04-05 23:03:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Well, with all due respect you have some ugly money\"\r\n\r\nLOL!!! That
    is OK, H\xE9ctor, I have some even uglier bills to pay with that money so maybe
    it suits the task :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-06 00:42:47'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Ok, maybe someone at some place needs to take a look a this: http://www.cnbc.com/id/23826876\r\n\r\nLOL
    Chris, money has always been an ugly issue.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2008-04-06 06:37:00'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "[addendum]\r\n\r\nRight on the money:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.moneyfactory.gov/newmoney/main.cfm/currency\r\n\r\nhttp://www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/transcripts/2314secr.html\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superdollar\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-06 12:19:19'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "We played around with the print blocking in PS at my lab one day just to
    seehow strict it was. All you have to do is type some text and make it transparent
    (spaces for instance IIRC also worked) and it would consider that sufficient\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-04-06 19:00:16'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "A lo mejor a Usted le gustar\xEDa leer este art\xEDculo. Puede que ya lo
    conozca, y as\xED es, puede encontrar a otros que le interese a Usted.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typotheque.com/articles/falta_de_diseno_exceso_de_diseno_y_volver_a_disenar/\r\n\r\n\"Disfruta
    mientras puedes\" - An\xF3nimo"
  created: '2008-04-06 23:19:21'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "If it costs 2c to make a penny, and 10c to make a nickel, someone is ripping
    you off. There isn't that much more metal in the nickel, and the process is essential
    the same.\r\n\r\nIn Canada they have just started talking about getting rid of
    the penny (the govenment, I have been saying it for 20 years). Here we have $1
    and $2 coins in circulation, not bills, so one's pocket is weighed down by all
    the coins. That is why Canadians appear to walk on an angle. Not to mention the
    problem with US based cash registers with only four or five coin slots.\r\n\r\nInflation
    has devalued the dollar to at least 1/10th of its 1950s value. So why not get
    rid of both the penny and the nickel. Price things with one decimal point after
    the dollar. And don't worry that prices will only round up. You know that something
    now priced at $19.99 is going to go to $19.9, not $20.0. Within a year prices
    will average out, due to competition.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-07 14:55:43'
- author:
    name: Electric Imagination
    picture: 114683
  body: "Do we really care what currency looks like? Pretty soon it will all currency
    will be electronic through thumb prints and/or retinal scans.\r\n\r\nIf that does
    not happen, I would prefer the US to keep the currency green and plain. It's only
    money :-)"
  created: '2008-04-07 18:58:33'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: Isn't the point of being a designer to care about how things look both aesthetically
    and functionally? It's the face of our economic system, and a cultural icon. So
    yes, we do really care, or at least you SHOULD care.
  created: '2008-04-07 21:32:52'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "@ Don McCahill\r\n\"If it costs 2c to make a penny, and 10c to make a nickel,
    someone is ripping you off.\"\r\n\r\nIt may sound crazy, but the fact that the
    currency has to be devided, you have to have pennies and dimes.\r\nThat penny
    or dime will then move from hand to hand for some number of years, thus covering
    its cost."
  created: '2008-04-08 02:16:21'
- author:
    name: jayyy
    picture: 109661
  body: "so what do all you guys make of the relatively new [[http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/b/be/Euro_banknotes.png|EURO
    notes?]]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-08 02:19:37'
- author:
    name: rectangular
    picture: 114412
  body: "I didn't see anyone actually post the image of the real dollar bill:\r\n\r\n[[http://www.moneyfactory.gov/newmoney/images/features/thumbnails/lowvision_5.jpg]]\r\n\r\nYikes.
    Very interesting. I haven't gotten one of these bills yet\u2026 But i really can't
    figure out the advantage to it, or how it would stop forgeries\u2026\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-08 06:25:01'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "<em>But i really can\u2019t figure out the advantage to it, or how it would
    stop forgeries...</em>\r\n\r\nThat same site you listed says a lot:\r\nhttp://www.moneyfactory.gov/newmoney/main.cfm/currency/new5\r\n\r\nIt
    says the giant Helvetica 5 is for people with poor vision. I wonder if there's
    any way to imitate braille on paper (that would stand wear and tear). Some of
    the high contrast numbers with ball serifs could get a little difficult to read,
    I suppose, depending on vision. I guess Gotham, or the likes were still too newfangled
    for them."
  created: '2008-04-08 13:30:52'
- author:
    name: Katharina
    picture: 112995
  body: Actually on the German currency there were Braille numbers, slightly elevated
    so you could feel them. Unfortunately this feature was given up with the Euro.
  created: '2008-04-08 14:06:37'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "American currency is suffering from the perceived need to be slavishly respectful
    of the old designs, while desperately trying to incorporate modern security and
    accessibility features. I wish someone would just pull the plug on the old greenback
    and allow for a new legacy-free design, instead of these Frankenstein's monster
    creations. I'm sure some people would howl about it (probably with a mouthful
    of \"freedom fries\", but green American currency is being pushed into the multi-color
    spectrum already, so why do it so half-ass-edly?\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-08 15:17:41'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: When one of my friends saw the new lavender 5ive, he exclaimed, "It's a five
    dollar bill <em>for girls</em>!"
  created: '2008-04-08 17:25:38'
- author:
    name: rectangular
    picture: 114412
  body: "I suppose I understand the 5 for people with poor vision\u2026 but is it
    really a big problem? I feel that if their vision is that bad, braille could potentially
    be the best solution as was mentioned above."
  created: '2008-04-09 07:11:57'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Little know fact, many stores here in Seattle accept Canadian notes - much
    nicer than the new US 2.5 pound note (pictured above) and the exchange rate is
    around 1:1 so no hard math.
  created: '2008-04-09 23:38:19'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: I'm not sure that's "little known." I thought it was pretty standard near
    the border for a long time. Then, for a while it wasn't when the buck was strong,
    and now it is again since they're relatively close. The last time I was in Vancouver
    I ran out of Canadian money and used a greenback to buy lunch. That was a couple
    years ago though, when a Canadian would *definitely* accept an American dollar
    at 1:1 ratio.
  created: '2008-04-10 00:40:13'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "I saw Stefan Sagmeister speak last night. At one point, he began talking
    about the new five:\r\n\r\n*unfolds the bill from his pocket*\r\n\"I mean; what
    the fuck?\" (\"vot ze fock\" with his austrian accent) Apparently the Helvetica
    movie has made its way even through national treasury. This is the typographic
    equivalent of Hurricane Katrina.\""
  created: '2008-04-26 18:02:24'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: "We may see it go sooner than we thought!  [[http://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/21/washington/21money.html?ref=us|Blind
    Win Court Ruling on U.S. Currency]]\r\n\r\n---\r\neeblet.com"
  created: '2008-05-22 01:01:40'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Mmh, 1 dollar green (tradition), 5$ blue, 10$ red, 20$ yellow... rainbow
    is finally coming to america's wallets :-)\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-05-22 07:57:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "$20 worth $1; $1 worth one penny. They all should be in the red to show how
    much they have lost. Thanks, W!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-05-22 15:49:54'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "David - I'm not sure changing the colors is really going to help the blind.
    I think more likely we'll see either varying sizes/shapes or some sort of embossed
    element that can distinguish the notes - perhaps even braille.\r\n\r\nChris -
    it works backwards too - a penny costs 2\xA2 to make and a nickel costs almost
    a dime."
  created: '2008-05-22 19:59:36'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "\xA1Only in the States!\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2008-05-23 01:46:54'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Don't worry, <a href=http://www.standingonguard.com/index2.html>When Canada
    takes over</a> you can use ours.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-05-24 02:38:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Russ,\r\nHave you seen the South Park movie?\r\n\r\nI think you would get
    a laugh from it :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-05-24 02:59:11'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: They did abolish the penny in Canada, although ours cost 1.6 cents to make,
    as against 2.4 cents for the American penny. But then, Canadians have been easier
    to push around, which is why we have loonies and toonies while the Americans rejected
    the Susan B. Anthony dollar, and why we went metric but the Americans didn't...
    and the Americans don't even have gun controls.
  created: '2013-04-28 07:46:21'
date: '2008-04-04 16:48:02'
title: New US Five Dollar Bill

---
