---
author:
  name: Nick Shinn
  picture: 110193
body: "What is the opinion of these?\r\nIMO they improve words like \u0153uf.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/oe_4093.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I've always found this digraph to be as cloying (for me) as the historical
    ligatures st and ct. They call too much attention to themselves. I suppose for
    specific settings or maybe artistic settings they are useful though. The second
    from the left works best for me. The first and last (top line) read as CE to me.
  created: '2008-04-04 22:05:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Good point. \r\nPeople with these digraphs in their alphabet (eg Scandinavian
    languages) don't have that \"CE\" problem, but for English usage of \u0152 as
    a ligature, a more \"O-ish\" left half might be better. "
  created: '2008-04-04 22:16:33'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Well, Scandinavian languages don't use \u0153 (you might be thinking of \xF8
    or \xF6). French is the only prominent modern language I can think of that uses
    \u0153, as in your example <em>\u0153uf</em>.\r\n\r\nI have no problems with the
    lowercase \u0153, but the designs of the uppercase \u0152 often do bother me,
    and I sometimes wonder if a form where an O with minimal optical distortion just
    touches E might work better at least for those who don't use this grapheme* on
    a daily basis. But we will also have to consult native French speakers on this
    one.\r\n\r\n* I use <em>digraph</em> to mean a two-letter combination used for
    writing a single sound, such as <em>th</em> and <em>ng</em> in <em>thing</em>."
  created: '2008-04-05 06:05:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Scandinavian languages don\u2019t use \u0153</em>\r\n\r\nYes, I was thinking
    of that other digraph \xC6, which is used in Scandinavian."
  created: '2008-04-05 06:44:32'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "I like it. The U&lc more than the small-caps, as the \u2018E\u2019 unfortunately
    is straight on its left, and therefore tends to clog the gap.\r\n\r\nHow frequent
    are \u2018\xC6\u2019 in \u2018\u0152\u2019 in French, Danish and Norwegian?\r\n\r\nThis
    remarkable illustration is taken from a French primer (1967):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/oeuf_6131.jpg]\r\nLearning
    the letter \u2018e\u2019: An \u2018oeuf\u2019 looks like an \u2018o\u2019 \u2013
    but sounds like an \u2018e\u2019. (The derivation sequence is a little bit bloated;
    what exactly happens between 2/3 and 5/6?)\r\nJust wanted to add that, sorry for
    the digression."
  created: '2008-04-05 13:29:36'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: " I guess the capital digraph OE is more likely to appear in the word \"oeuvre\"\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/oeuvres_6508.gif]\r\n\r\n[at
    least on the internet]. See the site http://www.cardinalleger.com/\r\n\r\nEdit.
    \ People may be less careful when writing \"oeuf\" than \"oeuvre\" (\"Les Oeuvres
    du Cardinal L\xE9ger\" becomes \"The Endeavors of Cardinal L\xE9ger\" in English).
    But there are so many French recipes... Who knows, at least when printed on paper.
    But don't forget, there are also \"hors d'oeuvres\", that are quite important
    in French cuisine. And there is also \"main d'oeuvre\" (manpower)."
  created: '2008-04-05 15:01:49'
- author:
    name: "Alexandre B\xE9langer"
    picture: 113023
  body: "In French, there\u2019s also b\u0153uf (beef), c\u0153ur (hearth), man\u0153uvre
    (operate), chef-d\u2019\u0153uvre (masterpiece), contrec\u0153ur (back-plate)
    and some others\u2026\r\n\r\nIn any case, there\u2019s nearly no occasion where
    the \u0152 ligature (or diagraph or grapheme) will be use with lower cases (the
    only possibilities are \xAB\u0153uf\xBB or \xAB\u0153uvre\xBB as the first noun
    of a book title. A sentence couldn\u2019t begin with a common noun. So, mainly,
    this gliph will be use in an all lower cases or an all upper cases word.\r\n\r\nAs
    for reading CE, it\u2019s a matter of habitude, I think. As a French reader, I
    would never have tought of this but have read OE by recognizing the character
    and the word instantly."
  created: '2008-04-05 18:52:00'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Just a simple remark :  if I type  \u201Cboeuf\u201D instead of  \u201Cb\u0153uf\u201D
    in Word on my sister\u2019s PC, the word is automatically replaced by \u201Cb\u0153uf\u201D
    by the spell checker: if I can manage to get \u201Cboeuf\u201D in the  text, I
    get a mistake. Of course, if \u201C\u0153\u201D is not in the font, the result
    is a square for the missing character. The same holds for \u201C\u0152\u201D."
  created: '2008-04-05 21:39:52'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABHow frequent are \u2018\xC6\u2019 in \u2018\u0152\u2019 in French,
    Danish and Norwegian?\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nSince \u0153 in French has already been
    dealt with by native French-speakers, I\u2019ll speak only of \xE6 in Danish and
    Norwegian (and also in Icelandic and Faeroese\u2014or should that be F\xE6r\u0153se?
    :-P).\r\n\r\n\xC6 is very common in Danish and, unlike in French, it is not thought
    of as an actual combination of the letters a and e in the minds of the common
    Dane. Whereas a French person might easily type <em>oeuvre</em>, rather than <em>\u0153uvre</em>,
    without really considering it \u2018un-French\u2019, no Dane would ever type ae,
    but always \xE6. The letter is about as common as \xE4 is in German, perhaps slightly
    less so, since umlauts are more common in German than in Danish. As in German,
    \xE6 is pronounced as [\u025B] in Danish (and Swedish, where it\u2019s a bit more
    open).\r\n\r\nIn Norwegian, \xE6 is less common than in Danish; many words where
    Danish uses \xE6 (and German and Swedish use \xE4), Norwegian uses e instead:
    D <em>\xE6bler</em>, S <em>\xE4pplen</em>, G <em>\xC4pfeln</em>, but N <em>epler</em>
    (\u2018apples\u2019). It\u2019s pronounced [\xE6] in Norwegian.\r\n\r\nIn Icelandic
    and Faeroese, it\u2019s even less common. In Faeroese, where it\u2019s pronounced
    [\xE6] as in Norwegian, it\u2019s used in a number of very common words where
    it\u2019s a very strange development of an old Germanic i or Scandinavian \xE9,
    such as F <em>m\xE6r, t\xE6r</em>, I <em>m\xE9r, \xFE\xE9r</em>, G <em>mir, dir</em>
    (dative of \u2018me, thou\u2019), but apart from that, its usage is similar to
    Icelandic, where it\u2019s only used as old i-umlauts of Old Norse a and is not
    that common. In Icelandic, it\u2019s pronounced [ai], a diphthong.\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\nAs
    for the digraphs themselves, I\u2019ve never liked the uppercase \u0152, either.
    In some fonts, they manage to get away with it and make it look sort of harmonic.
    The <em>Cardinal L\xE9ger</em> text above is a good example of that. But most
    commonly, it just looks like the poor O has had its skin pulled too taut, making
    it all warped stretched. Not pretty. I\u2019ve never read it as a CE, though.
    More commonly (due to sheer ingrained habit, I suppose), I\u2019ll instinctively
    read it as an \xE6 instead, so <em>\u0153ufs</em> becomes <em>\xE6ufs</em>, which
    in turn becomes complete nonsense in my head and makes me stumble in reading."
  created: '2008-04-05 23:45:18'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "How does one handle the shape of \"\xE6\" in a font with a single-story \"a\",
    so as to make the \"\xE6\" distinct from \"\u0153\"?"
  created: '2008-04-06 00:08:32'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "One of two things normally happens:\r\n\r\n1. The vertical beam of the \u0251
    is retained, so there\u2019s a vertical stroke between the \u0251 and the e, or
    the curvature of the \u0251 is made uneven, so it closes up towards the top right
    corner, rather than being properly circular (if that explanation makes sense).
    But they do end up looking rather similar. (Avant Garde uses the former way, fonts
    like Ayuthara\u2014first one in my list of fonts that applies\u2014do it the second
    way)\r\n\r\n2. The \u0251 is replaced by a two-storey a. (Futura does this)\r\n\r\nExample:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aeoe_6584.png]"
  created: '2008-04-06 00:17:41'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Nick was your question about the glyphs as a category or the designs you started
    the thread with? Or both?
  created: '2008-04-06 05:25:52'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "I should have been more clear: My question wasn\u2019t about the frequency
    of \u2018\xE6\u2019 and \u2018\u0153\u2019, but \u2018\xC6\u2019 and \u2018\u0152\u2019,
    i.e. uppercase. And the answer given by Alexandre (for French) is as I had expected:\r\n<cite>In
    any case, there\u2019s nearly no occasion where the \u0152 ligature (or diagraph
    or grapheme) will be use with lower cases</cite>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-06 09:36:11'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "Ah, sorry, I completely misread that.\r\n\r\nUppercase \xC6 is quite common
    in the Scandinavian languages. Unlike French, Scandinavian languages have no problems
    starting sentences with nouns (since nouns without articles are often employed,
    and the definite articles are all suffixes, rather than separate words before
    the noun they qualify).\r\n\r\nIn <em>Retskrivningsordbogen</em> (the dictionary
    that dictates spelling in Danish), there are three pages of words beginning with
    the letter \xE6."
  created: '2008-04-06 13:29:52'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite> there\u2019s nearly no occasion where the \u0152 ligature (or diagraph
    or grapheme) will be use with lower cases</cite>\r\n\r\nIt is used for \x11\u0152dipe
    (and may thus appear many times in some text on psychology), \u0152ta (a mountain
    in Greece) and in proper names of foreign people. And I learn  from two (non recent)
    dictionaries of mine (Larouse and Hachette) that one  may write either \u0152rsted
    or \xD8rsted.\r\n\r\nIn my \"Petit Larouse illustr\xE9\", I count 54 words (that
    are not proper names) including only one verb, \"\u0153uvrer\" whose first letter
    is \"\u0153\". A sentence can start with a verb, for instance \"\u0152uvrer\",
    \"\u0152uvrons\", \"\u0152uvrez\" etc. The article in front of nouns may be elided
    in titles. So, in a title, you might get \"\u0152cum\xE9nisme moderne\" and, when
    the subject gets hot, newspaper titles may beat the statistics!"
  created: '2008-04-06 13:44:53'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: Great information, Janus & Michel, thanks!
  created: '2008-04-06 13:53:04'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABAnd I learn from two (non recent) dictionaries of mine (Larouse
    and Hachette) that one may write either \u0152rsted or \xD8rsted.\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nMon
    dieu, quel horreur\_!"
  created: '2008-04-06 13:53:43'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>Mon dieu, quelle horreur !</cite>\r\n\r\nFor those that conclude that
    their font might now require an \"\xD8\" for use in Canada, that must be a shock
    indeed."
  created: '2008-04-06 14:10:30'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "(\_Whoopsies\u2014I never did claim to particularly proficient in French
    gender association :-P\_)\r\n\r\nI have to say I\u2019d far prefer simply <em>Oersted</em>,
    or even <em>Orsted</em>, to <em>\u0152rsted</em>. The former two give a clear
    indication that they are \u2018simplified\u2019 spellings for use when \xD8 is
    not available; the latter just seems an odd, misplaced Frenchification more likely
    to cause confusion than anything."
  created: '2008-04-06 14:46:42'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "The \"Petit Robert\" online leaves no choice for the physical unit (with
    IPA pronunciation between brackets, as usual):\r\n\r\n\u0153rsted [\u0153\u0280st\u025Bd]
    nom masculin\r\n\r\nEncyclop\xE6dia Universalis (online) seems to leave no other
    choice either for the physicist; they write \xAB \u0152RSTED ou \xD8RSTED HANS
    CHRISTIAN (1777-1851) \xBB. \r\n\r\nI guess the French Academy decided so.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-06 15:24:57'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABI guess the French Academy decided so.\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nWell,
    I, as a Dane, am not one to lambast language councils for their sometimes dubitable
    decisions, considering how the Danish Language Council regularly butchers loan
    words in Danish in an attempt to make them \u2018easier\u2019 for Danes.\r\n\r\nI
    quote, haphazardly, <em>majon\xE6se</em> (for <em>mayonnaise</em>), <em>konjak</em>
    (for <em>cognac</em>), or <em>risalamande</em> (for <em>ris \xE0 l\u2019amande</em>).
    The last one in particular grinds me, since <em>risalamande</em> is not even any
    more logical or phonetic in Danish than <em>ris \xE0 l\u2019amande</em>."
  created: '2008-04-06 15:50:06'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I for one will take these glyphs more seriously now.... Thanks!
  created: '2008-04-06 16:58:25'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Hm, good point, Nick!\r\n\r\nThe titlecase version of &oelig; looks very
    desirable indeed, from a typographic point of view!\r\n\r\n(One more idea collected)."
  created: '2008-04-06 18:32:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Eben, I was asking about the phenomenon in general.\r\nI collected the idea
    from Karsten's <em>Tiptoe.</em>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ea_4186.jpg]"
  created: '2008-04-06 19:01:10'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Oh, that example (Tiptoe) uses Ae-lig, Oe-lig and Ue-lig for \xC4, \xD6,
    and \xDC, not actually for &oelig; or &OElig;.\r\n\r\nIn German typo-/ortho-graphy
    (alone) it's acceptable to replace umlaut with a following e; a typographic alternative
    is to merge those letters (see also: e.g. http://www.liechtensteinmuseum.at/de/pages/home.asp
    's typeface NEUE \xD6FFNUNGSZEITEN SEIT 2. M\xC4RZ 2008 (with \xD6 and \xC4 as
    OE-lig, AE-lig )\r\nIt is not acceptable to use a postscript e for umlaut-dots
    in most other languages (compare: it's only acceptable to use apostrophe instead
    of caron for d, l and t in Slovak and Czech, not in any other language).\r\n\r\nStill,
    I understand that Tiptoe was just your _source_ of inspiration. French indeed
    cries for Titlecase version for that letter :-)"
  created: '2008-04-06 19:28:36'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Szabolcs, thanks!\r\n\r\nNick, I can see where you might be inspired. It
    is really well done isn't it?"
  created: '2008-04-07 01:28:36'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "In Norwegian handwriting, \xE6 is very similar to \u0153. I think most Norwegians
    don't even know \u0153 excist. Actually, last saturday Dagbladet accidentally
    switched \xE6 for \u0153 in a headline."
  created: '2008-04-07 15:33:44'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "That sounds very odd to me.\r\n\r\nIn handwriting, yes, \xE6 is usually written
    very similar to \u0153 (or rather, almost exactly like ce in joined-up writing).
    But I\u2019ve never seen anyone confuse \xE6 with \u0153 in type. A classmate
    of mine who bought her computer in the US could never figure out how to type \xE6
    on her US keyboard layout, so she consistently used \u0153 instead, but even though
    it was legible, everybody noticed that it looked wrong, and it slowed down reading.\r\n\r\nThat
    a newspaper could actually mix them up sounds completely bizarre and absurd to
    me."
  created: '2008-04-08 01:39:32'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>the latter just seems an odd, misplaced Frenchification more likely
    to cause confusion than anything.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe more I look the more I am
    puzzled. \r\n\r\nI downloaded the two Mozilla French dictionaries from https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/thunderbird/browse/type:3.
    The files have extension .xpi and you just unzip them to get the dictionaries,
    that are good old-style plain text ISO8859-15 (latin9) encoded files (one word
    per line); fr-FR.dic (82000 entries) would be the \"pre 1990\" version and  fr.dic
    (1990 reform, 90 000 entries) would to be the most \"modern\" one.  Instead of
    utf-8 re-encoding, I just used a unix window (on my mac) with \"Window Settings
    > Display,  Character Set Encoding > Western (ISO Latin 9)\" and kept the files
    as is to better see the bugs. \r\n\r\nI first looked at all proper names containing
    \"oe\" or \"\u0153\" in fr-FR.dic. Here is the command (I had to make a screen
    grab)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/egrep_6474.jpg]\r\n\r\nand I
    got on the output the following list (one entry per line):\r\n\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;Coelho,
    Defoe, Goethe, Groenland, Hoegaerden, Hoeilaart, Koekelberg, Loewner, Noether,
    Oedipe/LM, OEM, Oersted/M, Piedb\u0153uf, Schoenberg, Toeplitz, Westhoek.\r\n\r\nThis
    proves that in foreign names, even if \"oe\" is not pronounced as two separate
    letters, French will use \"oe\" if necessary, and not \"\u0153\". The entry \"Oedipe\"
    looks however erroneous and the fact that Oersted is not written \"\u0152rsted\"
    may unfortunately be explained by... a bug.\r\n\r\nIndeed, if I look more carefully
    at the file fr-FR.dic (if I search for \"rsted\"), I realize that the character
    \"\u0152\" was ill encoded; it was encoded twice 0xBE (for \"\u0152rsted\" and
    \"\u0152dipe\") and twice 0x8C (for \"d'\u0152rsted\" and \"d'\u0152dipe\"), instead
    of 0xBC. The entries \"Oedipe\" and \"Oersted\" might just be...  a patch?\r\n\r\nIf
    I compare fr-FR.dic with fr.dic, I see that the entry \"\u0153rsted\" (for the
    physical unit) has become \"oersted\", which seems to be reasonable but, on the
    other hand, many other \"\u0153\" are now \"oe\" in fr.dic, for unknown reasons.
    Those I have checked have not changed in the \"Petit Robert\" dictionary (online).
    Does anyone know who decided what in 1990? And do you know of more reliable plain
    text dictionaries?\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-08 02:29:04'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: I have seen handwriting styles where (naturally) a single a is single-storey,
    but for &aelig; a double-storey-A&ndash;E ligature is used.(starting like the
    bowl of the P, curling back at the bottom to form the A's bowl and writing an
    e, looking like antiqua print &aelig;-s, connecting from left at the x-height,
    on the right at the baseline.
  created: '2008-04-08 09:35:20'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "Yes, I normally write \xE6 like that by hand (though the writing style I
    currently use the most has double-storey a\u2019s, as well). However, it is far
    less common than the \u2018ce\u2019 style, at least in Denmark.\r\n\r\nAnother
    style is to actually write \u0153, which some people also do (I myself used to
    write \xE6\u2019s like that previously)."
  created: '2008-04-08 13:39:21'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>And do you know of more reliable plain text dictionaries?</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    <a href=\"http://wiki.services.openoffice.org/wiki/Dictionaries\" target=\"_blank\"><em>OpenOffice
    dictionaries</em></a> are plain text and those for French I have looked at don't
    suffer from the \"\u0152\" bug. It seems clear that \"\u0153rsted\" is now \"oersted\"
    after the reform on which I could find some information <a href=\"http://www.renouvo.org/index.php\"
    target=\"_blank\">here</a> (in French).\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2008-04-08 16:34:02'
date: '2008-04-04 21:29:02'
node_type: forum
title: Titlecase digraphs

---
