---
author:
  name: ebensorkin
  picture: 109987
body: "So about the \"ch\" & \"ck\" in German : please enlighten me!\r\n\r\n<ol><li>These
  have been made into ligatures at times but they are not true digraphs - are they?
  </li>\r\n\r\n<li>Are we talking all instances of \"ch\" & \"ck\" in German or just
  some in certain words?</li>\r\n\r\n<li>Erik Spiekermann commented ( I quote waaay
  too loosely here) one that there was a need in the age of contextual alternatives
  to look again at \"ch\" & \"ck\". What could he have been getting at?</li>\r\n\r\n<li>
  If you did change these would it be to a ligated (ligature) form; one where the
  two glyphs touch, or would it be a spacing difference?</li>\r\n\r\n<li> If it was
  a spacing change how does that impact the pattern of light/dark and the or the \"balance\"
  of a word?</li>\r\n</ol>\r\nThanks!"
comments:
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "They are just a relic of blackletter writing/printing where they were mandatory.
    When we finally got rid of blackletter, many serif and sans serif typefaces also
    got them, sort of as compromise for everyone who grew up with blackletter. But
    I don't think they belong in a non-blackletter typeface. \r\nThey represent a
    distinct sound, but it doesn't make a difference if you use a ligature or not. "
  created: '2008-04-05 19:08:43'
- author:
    name: Andy Martin
    picture: 111412
  body: "Hi Eben I'm not even confident enough in the type world to try commenting
    on German ligatures, I'll let the professionals handle that, however I have designed
    several versions of a ch and ck ligature. This was my latest attempt\u2026\r\n\r\n(most
    of these were done purely for fun).\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ligatures3_5713.jpg]"
  created: '2008-04-05 19:33:03'
- author:
    name: Andy Martin
    picture: 111412
  body: "Here's some text of mine containing ch and ck ligatures.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ligature-tests3_6670.jpg]"
  created: '2008-04-05 19:33:51'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "this thread also covers this topic:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/8297\">German
    c-ligs</a>"
  created: '2008-04-05 20:21:50'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Eben, these aren't at all digraphs. The letter c is not so common in German.
    I believe that, in true German words (i.e., not loan words from Latin, Greek,
    French, English, etc.), it never comes alone, but rather always followed by either
    an h or a k. So it made sense to write & set ch and ck together, I guess. I do
    not believe that there were any exceptions to this rule, except perhaps when mixing
    foreign language words into the text (church would look mighty weird indeed wit
    two closely spaced and/or ligated ch combinations).
  created: '2008-04-05 20:54:27'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "1. What Ralf said. In addition to that: I saw veteran typographers applying
    tighter spacing to sch, ch and ck \u2013 in digital typesetting. Thus, not via
    ligatures, but customized kerning tables and the like.\r\n\r\n2. All instances.
    There might be exceptions with loanwords/names, but I can\u2019t think of even
    a single one.\r\n\r\n3. I assume this is the quote?\r\n\r\n<cite>In German, ch,
    sch and ck are pronounced as one sound, as ck is in English. The c always looks
    too far from the h or the s, and in metal we had ligatures for these (as for tz
    by the way), also a time-saving device. I cannot kern the c for these combinations,
    as they would look bad in all the other languages.</cite> \u2014 <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/40729#comment-250951\">Erik
    Spiekermann</a>\r\n\r\n4. Slightly tighter spacing (and even that is a controversial
    issue, see Ralf\u2019s opinion). Certainly no touching.\r\n\r\n5. Yes, of course
    a \u2018blotchier\u2019 colour would be the downside, if you only alter the spacing.\r\nI
    once saw a short \u2018c\u2019, similar to this (quick and bad) simulation:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cache_6718.png]I
    think it was in the headlines of an old (1980s?) Swiss newspaper, but I\u2019d
    have to investigate to say for sure. One must add that a lowercase \u2018c\u2019
    almost always is followed by \u2018h\u2019 or \u2018k\u2019 in German language.
    Hence, a situation like this (\u2018cache\u2019), where both forms \u2013 a full
    and a \u2018short c\u2019 \u2013 appear side by side and could possibly cause
    confusion, is rare. I think there was no \u2018full c\u2019 in the sample I\u2019m
    talking about.\r\n\r\nF"
  created: '2008-04-05 21:06:45'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Okay so there is no true digraph here. And to be clear I am not talking about
    blackletter which has it's own considerations but a Roman serif fonts and/or a
    Sans made for broadest uses : text, information/signage, headlines, & so on.  \r\n\r\nSo
    as to the question of if it would be desirable to set up language specific kerning
    in order to accommodate the most likely use of the c in German; or if it would
    be better to have a language specific (german) liga feature for German. It seem
    like the answwer is no. I am inclined to agree with Ralph because if you have
    a good kern for the combination in question that kern should be based on optical
    considerations. If you wanted to make a special touching on non-touching liga
    or calt combination then it seem like the consideration would be similar eg does
    it read well, is it distracting, is it right optically speaking & so on. Reading
    the thread that Paul linked to it looks like Karsten isn't too keen on the idea
    of giving them special treatment.  Adam says \"Since the \"c_h\" and \"c_k\" ligatures
    are of historic interest only, I recommend putting them in the \"hlig\" feature,
    and also in the \"dlig\" feature, but NOT in the \"liga\" feature.\" Which resolves
    it for me. For me the optical aspect dominates, but also I can't disagree with
    Karsten Adam & Ralf all at once with some really compelling reason.\r\n\r\nAndy,
    thanks for showing us your work.\r\n\r\nPaul thanks for the link!"
  created: '2008-04-06 00:12:21'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "Eben, you left out a third scenario: a language specific (calt) feature that
    substitutes c with a slightly narrower, more tightly-fitted (on the right side)
    version for German ch and ck combinations.\r\nany thoughts from native German
    readers on this approach?"
  created: '2008-04-06 12:35:15'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Unless the fonts are made for historians I wouln't give the digraphs any
    special treatment. Actually, the majority of German readers might even think there's
    something wrong with the font, because this simply isn't used anymore for some
    decades now. \r\nAdam mentioned another important point in the other thread. As
    you know we can build endless words:\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rinderkennzeichnungs-_und_Rindfleischetikettierungs%C3%BCberwachungsaufgaben%C3%BCbertragungsgesetz\r\n\r\nSo,
    occasionally such ligatures might be wrong, because the two letters don't stand
    for the sound, but belong to separate parts of a compound word. So any automatic
    replacement would fail. So I don't think it's a good idea to have it in any standard
    feature like liga,calt,clig, ...\r\nAnyone who wants to use is, has to do it manually.
    This is always the case for setting blackletter texts in German.\r\n\r\nRalf\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-06 15:06:16'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "If you're setting up a language specific kern, for <em>ch</em> it would be
    prudent to include it for Spanish as well.  It's not 100% standard to do so, but
    some of the larger publishers I've noticed place them a tiny bit closer.  \r\n
    \r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de
    pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-04-06 15:53:40'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Ralph makes the point I would have based on Adam's remarks except that but
    it seems like an occurance of c+? in german would be on one side of a word part
    or another not like the fl example. Still, right or wrong I think the optical
    consideration is the primary issue or "trump card" and should win. Again, I am
    not speaking about blackletter which I don't have an opinion about yet. And if
    you felt strongly about it you could put in a discretionary lig/alt form that
    was not tied to a region/language.
  created: '2008-04-06 16:50:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Still, right or wrong I think the optical consideration is the primary
    issue or \u201Ctrump card\u201D and should win.</em>\r\n\r\nSpeaking of Trump,
    would it not be correct, if one were setting German text in a \"retro-antiqua-letterpress\"
    style, and the face were Trump Medi\xE4val, to reproduce all the artefacts of
    that genre? This from a 1967 Linotype specimen.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/trump2_5103.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/trump_5072.jpg]"
  created: '2008-04-06 18:45:39'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "An older German type setter would love this! \r\nSure, in this context it's
    okay to use it in this ways. \r\n\r\nBut still: I guess most Germans under the
    age of 30 have never seen this kind of type setting. So for them it would rather
    be distracting than helpful."
  created: '2008-04-06 18:54:56'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "<em>When we finally got rid of blackletter, many serif and sans serif typefaces
    also got them, sort of as compromise for everyone who grew up with blackletter.</em>\r\n\r\nFutura,
    as one of the faces designed to do away with black letter, had an interesting
    solution to this problem. It did include ch and ck composite characters in its
    original release set.\r\nBut the main feature was the vertical termination to
    the ends of the arms of both the cap and lower case c, which allowed for tighter
    right hand character space. The paired characters were done away with c. 1933,
    but the C and c with their elegant cross-language solution remained. "
  created: '2008-04-08 16:15:36'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Charles: thanks, that\u2019s exactly what I tried to describe with my \u2018short
    c\u2019. You put it more eloquently, and with historic background.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Futura-Condensed-ExtraBold_3731.png]\r\nIf
    you want to do a favour to those German typographers who find that two wide letters
    are \u2018too much\u2019 of a representation for one sound, then a short \u2018c\u2019
    might be a good idea. Certainly better than tighter spacing, for the reasons Ralf
    has explained.\r\nMaybe implemented as an alternate. And it probably works better
    rather in display (e.g. condensed headline) faces than in body text. "
  created: '2008-04-08 16:36:10'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Yes, there is no reason to dismiss the idea altogether especially if you can
    find a solution that is optically pleasing like the example above. And I agree
    that implementation as an alternate would be the way to go. Deciding to make one
    would come down to the audience the font is intended for. Or maybe for bragging
    rights... ;-)
  created: '2008-04-08 21:22:03'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Eben, &lt;ch&gt; and &lt;ck&gt;<em>are</em> are digraphs in German (and &lt;sch&gt;
    is a trigraph). Digraph simply means by definition that more than one character
    is used to represent one sound. &lt;ch&gt; represents the phoneme /x/ (phonetic
    realisations: [x] and [\xE7] in literary German) and &lt;ck&gt; represents /k\u02D0/,
    or to be more precise a /k/ marking the preceding vowel to be short.\r\nIt seems
    to me from your earlier point that you partially mix the terminology ligature
    and digraph. Digraph means one sound represented by more than one character (often
    but not always considered one letter), ligature means the visual combination of
    two characters.\r\nDigraphs may or may not be written with ligatures depending
    on orthography and/or tradition, while ligatures can be applied for digraphs but
    for simplex graphemes as well.\r\n\r\nExamples\r\n+digraph, +ligature: German
    &lt;ch&gt;, &lt;ck&gt; in blackletter tradition, Hungarian sz up to the early
    19th century\r\n+digraph, -ligature: spanish &lt;ch&gt;, German &lt;ch&gt;, &lt;ck&gt;
    in antiqua tradition, all Hungarian digraphs (&lt;cs&gt;, &lt;zs&gt;, &lt;gy&gt;,
    etc. incl. &lt;sz&gt;) since the 19th century\r\n-digraph, +ligature: &lt;fi&gt;,
    &lt;fl&gt; in English\r\n-digraph, -ligature: most letter combinations in most
    Latin languages, like &lt;om&gt; in \"combination\" in English\r\n\r\n[edit: lesser/greater
    signs corrected]"
  created: '2008-04-09 13:36:51'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xAB&lt;ch&gt; represents the phoneme /x/ (phonetic realisations: [x]
    and [\xE7] in literary German)\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m curious as to why you
    specified literary German here. To the best of my knowledge, [x] and [\xE7] (and
    minor allophonic variations thereof) are also the phonetic realisations of /x/
    in vernacular German, no?"
  created: '2008-04-09 14:07:10'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Look, German vernacular is diffracted into a multitude of dialects. Several
    dialects realise &lt;ch&gt; as [\u0283], some as [k]. These sounds do contrast
    in literary german (and are spelled &lt;sch&gt; and &lt;k&gt; respectively). e.g.
    <em>Kirche</em> 'church' ~ <em>Kirsche</em> 'cherry' might sound alike in certain
    dialects, not in Standard High German."
  created: '2008-04-09 14:22:48'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "My understanding - possibly false - was that a digraph had an entry in dictionaries
    and phone books which was proof that people thought of the digraph as a unit.
    But I can see where you could use your definition, and how on some level it is
    a more useful one in general. From a type making point of view the way something
    is spoken is interesting but not perhaps crucial. For type making the issue is
    what sort of form or forms does it need to take to be accepted; and does this
    need a code point of it's own; and how do you use it as a typographer. I say his
    not as refutation but as an example of how a term takes on more than one meaning
    in different groups of people. Probably when speaking of digraphs in the future
    I should specify that I am using it according to your (liguistic) rules since
    they are more specific.\r\n\r\nLigature as we commonly use it just means touching.
    But historically \"ligature\" could and did also mean a single piece of lead type
    with one or more glyph on it touching or not. You could have the word \"The\"
    even. And the ch & & ck were exactly that - two glyphs on one peice of metal type.
    So in this sense the \"digraphs\" in question were by one acceptable definition
    of ligatures - ligatures. \r\n\r\nAlso, would you remind me : does \u201CSz\u201D
    have it's own place in the dictionary? Maybe you could start a thread about Sz!
    :-)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-09 17:44:29'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Ligature as we commonly use it just means touching. But historically
    \u201Cligature\u201D could and did also mean a single piece of lead type with
    one or more glyph on it touching or not. You could have the word \u201CThe\u201D
    even.</cite>\r\n\r\nEben -- I have a different understanding of the historical
    use of \"ligature\" in relation to type. The word derives from Latin and means
    \"tied\" more than \"touching.\" As such, ligature was used only to refer to sorts
    where the letters were actually connected or tied -- fi fl st ct, etc.\r\n\r\nSorts
    containing two or more letters (for fitting purposes, say) would be more properly
    called \"logotypes.\" From the glossary of a printer's guide published by the
    Graphic Arts Company in Boston in 1924: \r\n\r\n<cite><strong>Logotype.</strong>
    Two or more letters, or a whole word, cast on one body.</cite>\r\n\r\nNowadays,
    of course, the term \"logotype\" has slightly different connotations.\r\n\r\n--
    K."
  created: '2008-04-09 18:10:13'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Eben,\r\n\r\nThere's also a difference between <em>letter</em> and <em>digraph</em>
    (and <em>character</em>).\r\n\r\n\xB6 Character is usually the smallest composing
    entity of a writing system.\r\nLetter is what shows up in dictionaries and alphabet
    listings.\r\n\xB6 Digraphs are as specified above character combinations to designate
    phonetic or phonemic elements of the language different from the meaning of the
    single characters. \xB6 They may or may not be treated as letters.\r\nWhether
    something is a digraph, one can determine from the mapping sound <-> character
    sequence. Whether it's a letter, that's a \"higher protocol\" convention not determinable
    from the first information.\r\n\r\nConsequently, character is a property of a
    writing system (e.g. Latin \"alphabet\"), while digraphs and letters are concepts
    of a particular language's orthography (e.g. English, German, ...).\r\n\r\n\xB6
    Thus, Hungarian cs, dz, gy, ly, ny, sz, ty, zs, are digraphs and letters of the
    Hungarian alphabet. dzs is a trigraph and a letter there. ch is a digraph, but
    not a letter in Hungarian (it's used in foreign words, is an allograph in that
    sense of Hungarian h, but not counted as letter, sorted as c+h in dictionaries).\r\n\xB6
    In German, ch, ck are digraphs, but are not considered as letters. sch is a trigraph
    but not a letter either in German.*, **\r\n\xB6 In Polish dz, d\u017C, ch is a
    digraph, but not a letter AFAIK. But Slovak, where dz, d\u017E, ch are digraphs
    alike, they are considered separate letters as well.\r\n\xB6 French aux is a trigraph
    (standing for /o\u02D0/, among a lot of other character sequences), but not a
    letter...\r\n\xB6 English gh, ch, sh, etc. are digraphs, but not considered letters.\r\n\xB6!!!
    Such conventions can change even. ch and ll were digraphs <em>and</em> letters
    in Spanish. They are invariably digraphs, but they are not considered letters
    any more.\r\n\r\n\r\n* In German, the diphtongs' writing (except for au) can be
    seen as digraphs as well, as in German ei, eu, \xE4u, ie are pronounced not what
    the individually denoted vowels would sound in a diphthong. (&lt;e&gt; stands
    for [\u025B] or [e], &lt;i&gt; for [i], but &lt;ei&gt; is pronounced [aj], not
    [\u025Bj] or [ej]; etc.).\r\n** Analytically, ck additionally could be seen as
    a surface realisation of kk; one could imagine an underlying kk encoding with
    \"contextual alternate\" of k > c under the condition of being followed by a:
    _k. But th\r\n\r\n\r\nPS: the letter sz has a very interesting history in Hungarian
    <em>printing</em>, and I have some very interesting information on that. However,
    I'm very careful not to draw too early conclusions or to publish incomplete research.
    (Additionally, the historical distributions/rules of long-s and s in Hungarian
    printing history is also very interesting, though even more complex). I'd not
    like to fall into the same mistake as diacritics.typo.cz does, i.e. publishing
    wrong or premature results.\r\n\r\n\r\n&mdash;&mdash;&mdash; I hope that terribly
    long post does not overexplain things and I hope equally I don't seem like an
    egghead now :-)"
  created: '2008-04-09 18:52:19'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "That was an interesting read, Szabolcs \u2013 thanks!\r\nAnd don\u2019t worry,
    on Typophile, eggheads are most welcome. :-)\r\n\r\nSome more nitpicking:\r\n\r\nYou
    wrote, <cite>&lt;ch&gt; represents the phoneme /x/ (phonetic realisations: [x]
    and [\xE7] </cite> in German language. It can also be [k], as in Dachs, Ochse,
    Wechsel etc. It still is a phonetic digraph, though.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-09 19:17:53'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "<em>!! Such conventions can change even. ch and ll were digraphs and letters
    in Spanish. They are invariably digraphs, but they are not considered letters
    any more.</em>\r\n\r\nI hate to nitpick, as this thread has been most informative,
    but ch and ll are still considered letters in Spanish.  Also, do you have an example
    of the ligatured form of SZ?  Did it connect the top strokes or ?\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-04-09 22:08:53'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABAlso, do you have an example of the ligatured form of SZ? Did it
    connect the top strokes or\_?\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019d love to see this as well.\r\n\r\nAnd
    as a small aside, rather off-topic, I\u2019m afraid: if you write letters as capitals
    when referring to them as letters (i.e., an A, to T\u2019s, etc.), would you write
    SZ or Sz? The \u2018title\u2019 for the letter in my Hungarian dictionary says
    \u201CSz\u201D, so I\u2019d guess that would be more proper? And then SZ is only
    used in all-caps?"
  created: '2008-04-09 22:21:28'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Eben \u2014 I have a different understanding of the historical use
    of \u201Cligature\u201D in relation to type. The word derives from Latin and means
    \u201Ctied\u201D more than \u201Ctouching.\u201D As such, ligature was used only
    to refer to sorts where the letters were actually connected or tied \u2014 fi
    fl st ct, etc. </cite>\r\n\r\nThat is definitely the conventional idea. Of course
    you could also say that the letters were tied by the metal below even if is not
    a visible connection.. ;-) I will try to find the place/s that I have read the
    use I am suggesting. In the meantime and off the top of my head I know John Hudson
    has used the meaning I gave. ( Not that you should bow to him. ) Personally I
    find that it is a pretty useful definition as I have no other word to describe
    it other than \"Logotype\" which seems to be a Linotype specific word. That is
    to say even less well or clearly understood than \"ligature\".\r\n\r\nOne thing
    is sure and that is that Type Jargon is almost never as agreed upon as you might
    prefer.  If we could invent one & agree to it that would be ideal, but until I
    am convinced otherwise I will probably continue with \"non-touching metal ligature\"
    or something like that."
  created: '2008-04-10 07:34:11'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Szabolcs, Ralph, Matthew, Thanks!\r\n\r\nAlso, I would like to hear a premature
    idea about sz. As long as it is explained it's an unfinished idea, I think it's
    okay to say how it looks to you today. At least then I can begin to think about
    it."
  created: '2008-04-10 07:39:29'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Matthew, I won't argue here with you, as you seem to be native (?) Spanish
    speaker.\r\nHowever, my information was?, that in a recent reform CH and LL were
    ripped their letter status, and also consequent are sorted as C+H and L+L in newer
    dictionaries, while they sorted as separate letters earlier.\r\nDoublechecking
    the information now, I see that there has been a reform in sorting (indead sorting
    them as simple character combinations, but still considering them an own letter
    of the alphabet. Sorry for that misinformation.\r\n\r\nOis\xEDn: I'd mostly use
    italics to refer to letters as themselves or in bold face (in texts where italics
    is used for indicating sound values). As the idea is that the letter should stand
    out of the text, if I'm lazy to type the tags or if only plain text is permitted,
    I would use the capital form of all constituting components (i.e. SH, SZ, CH,
    LL, GY) independently of capitalisation practices of letters in the language.
    Here capitalisation has the function of making something standing out.\r\nWhen
    doing so I understand that digraphs considered letters are sometimes \"fully\"
    capitalised, sometimes not.\r\nDutch IJ is capitalised with both components at
    the beginning of a sentence or in proper names, Hungarian, Spanish digraph-letters
    are not, only in all-caps setting.\r\nMy name (consisting of sz-a-b-o-l-cs) is
    such written Szabolcs or all caps SZABOLCS (not *SzABOLCs). (Chili, Llamar,...).
    In that sense the digraph-letters behave in a lowercase-titlecase-uppercase triad,
    but as they are composed of individual characters, in in most encoding schemes
    e.g. Unicode, etc. such a distinction is not necessary.\r\n\r\nConcerning the
    sz-ligature.\r\n\r\nI wrote about the sz-ligature in Hungarian used up to the
    (approx) beginning of the 19th century and that woke your interest. The grapheme
    of the sound (IPA) [s] in Hungarian has a very complicated history, if you view
    it from a typographic point of view, if you ask me (orthographically, approx.
    from the 15-16th century it was fixed as &lt;sz&gt;, previously it was also orthographically
    adventurous). So that ligature was only one typographic realisation. It is built
    by the long-s and a normal z ligated. It is very different from the german sharp-s
    (\xDF), which is an longs_(long)z ligature in Blackletter, but a longs_s ligature
    in Antiqua (or in some Antiqua forms it's a longs_longz ligature, but never a
    longs_normalz lig).\r\nI have scans at home which I can share later. However,
    this is only a typographic curiosity, as it's long deprecated..."
  created: '2008-04-10 13:06:17'
date: '2008-04-05 18:06:51'
node_type: forum
title: 'RE: ch & ck in German : please enlighten me!'

---
