---
author:
  name: typetard
body: "Hi I am wondering if I should upgrade to Leopard, am using Adobe CS Suite 3.
  Have done searches on other forums to see who has and if they are having issues
  with any of the Adobe CS Suite 3 applications... or fonts issues? \r\n\r\nI see
  the designers posting here of a high level, so who better to ask. Not wanting a
  poll for posters to do 1 liner posts like: \"I have\", would prefer to read how
  the over all experience was and if it was worth while. Any issues with fonts, font
  managers, font caches...\r\n\r\nWanting to update the studio, and for once have
  not jumped in head first on this upgrade. thanks in advance."
comments:
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "I used to work in a printing company that has Mac OS X from 10.2 to the latest
    version. All of them worked just great, but, sometimes this one intel g5 simply
    didn't 'want' to print for some reason. When we had a problem like that, we opened
    the file back in a non-intel machine and it would print just right and easy.\r\nI
    guess that if you upgrade to Leopard your CS3 suite will work just fine, but,
    question is: Do you really need (or want) to upgrade?\r\n\r\nGood luck!\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9\r\n\r\np.s.:
    You are going to laugh: I am still running Mac OS 9.2.2 = IT WORKS!\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-06 12:34:23'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: "Wow... Mac OS 9.2.2!.. nice work.\r\n\r\nI have all Power PC Macs G5, also
    other reason for asking as wanting to get another NEW Mac... and they now all
    are Leopard.\r\nNeeds and wants... immm need it as I want to do other stuff that
    is only available in Leopard, so I guess need? ok want"
  created: '2008-04-06 12:45:58'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "I am on a PowerMac G5 2*2.5G Hz and have had a fair amount of problems with
    the CS3 apps, esp. InDesign. Erratic crashes especially when doing stuff in Open,
    Import, Save dialogs. Using the workarounds that have been found  by smarter people
    than me, one can cope, but it is a hassle: I have to restart ID often because
    of sudden disappearances, contain the amount of fonts active, be careful not to
    drag\u2013and\u2013drop images, and so on.\r\n\r\nWord is that Intel-machines
    behave better, though.\r\n\r\nI do feel that the combination PowerMac/Leopard/CS3
    is not ideally suited for production work. You\u2019re better of staying on Tiger.
    Or upgrade to Intel : )\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-04-06 13:02:01'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: All my experiences with machines that have been updated to Leopard have been
    somewhat disastrous, from permission issues through crashes, to general OS instability.
    This does not, generally, seem to be an issue with new machines that ship with
    Leopard, only machines that are upgraded from Tiger or earlier versions.
  created: '2008-04-06 13:56:19'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: Makes me think that Leopard is made for intel macs? And if you are going to
    add another new mac it will be Leopard. I guess you are going to do it no matter
    what (I wish I could...;..). Good luck, Leopard has the "Time Machine" to 'undo'
    any changes to the system; that seems handy. Question is, does it work?
  created: '2008-04-06 17:21:28'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: "Oisin...machines that were upgraded as in \"10.5 was installed on top of
    10.4\" or upgraded as in \"10.4 was deleted and 10.5 was installed\"?\r\n\r\nIf
    it's the former, then it's no wonder you have problems.  The upgrade process for
    OS X is quite nice, however, it's not perfect and a huge amount of cruft is still
    left over to cause problems.  I never upgrade when I install a new OS; I back
    everything up and do a complete erase and install of the new version.  Start fresh.
    \ It takes longer to get up and running that way but it saves problems in the
    future."
  created: '2008-04-06 20:16:44'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: 'I''m pretty happy with my PowerMac dual 2.3 + 10.4.11 + CS3, as long as I
    give it enough memory. It''s amazing how 1 Gb doesn''t go very far these days
    (I remember the days when a Zip disk could back up the whole computer)! '
  created: '2008-04-06 20:25:40'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "Kakaze:\r\n\r\nBoth upgrades and erase-and-install installations have been
    plagued in my experience. The only time I\u2019ve seen it go well was a completely
    nuke \u2019n\u2019 pave, i.e., the entire hard drive was formatted (it was a server
    at work that was being sold off for some reason, so they overwrote it 35 times\u2014best
    not to leave any valuable information on there) and a clean install was made.\r\n\r\nI
    suspect it has to do with the fact that standard user ids and groups have been
    changed, but I\u2019m not sure.\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\nMili:\r\n\r\nIndeed! I remember
    doing work on a 40 MB hard drive. 16 MHz processor that beast had.\r\n\r\nLike
    you, I\u2019m perfectly content with 10.4.11 on my Mac Pro. :-)"
  created: '2008-04-06 21:09:53'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: "Thank you... Indesign, Illustrator, Photoshop, Acrobat/Distiller using everyday,
    if Leopard has issues with a Power PC then I think I will wait for 10.6? Tiger
    is working wonderfully, and in the case of: if it aint broke don't fix it.\r\n\r\nI
    remember working on an Apple IIe, large thin floppy disks for saving and backing
    up our digitizing!!... that was only 22 years ago... another 22 years we will
    be laughing at our terabyte hard drives and a crazy thing called RAM.\r\n\r\nAlso
    should I upgrade... I would back everything up, wipe the drives clean (pull out
    the dishwashing liquid) and do a clean install of Leopard, I would expect to write
    off a day doing this... and the heart would be racing at 97%.... 98%.... 99%....
    100%... completed!... phew!"
  created: '2008-04-06 21:31:25'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: "Oisin: erase and install is a complete \"nuke 'n' pave\" of the drive.  There
    will be no user ids or groups until after you're done.  Unless you're thinking
    of an \"archive and install\" which preserves everything on the drive and creates
    a new system folder.  I've done one archive and install since switching to Mac
    and less than a week later I had to erase and install because things were just
    wrong.\r\n\r\nConcrete: Leopard works perfectly on my G4 PowerBook along with
    CS3.  I've heard of relatively few problems regarding Leopard on PPC Macs."
  created: '2008-04-07 22:39:02'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: "Kakaze@ : thanks, I phoned a colleague yesterday who did a clean install
    not long ago, he was in the middle repairing permissions at the time and said..
    hold off. Another colleague said to wait at least for 10.5.3.\r\n\r\nI am in no
    rush, for once I have slowed down and reviewed the issues. I currently am issue
    free on Tiger.. so i will wait just a little."
  created: '2008-04-07 22:53:09'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "Kakaze: You\u2019re right, that was supposed to say \u201Carchive and install\u201D,
    not \u201Cerase and install\u201D."
  created: '2008-04-08 01:50:03'
- author:
    name: chrislong
  body: "concrete:\r\n\r\nYou don't say what hardware you're using, specifically.
    I've heard that Leopard and CS3 work well on G4 PPC macs, and I've had very few
    problems with CS3 on my Intel MacBook, but I'd recommend against using Leopard
    and CS3 with a dual G5 machine -- this is what I use at the office and I've had
    a number of problems, even after a complete system/CS3 reinstall ... probably
    similar to Bert Vanderveen's problems above: any Finder-related activity (Open,
    Save, Place, etc) can cause crashes and lockups and forced CS3 restarts.\r\n\r\nG4?
    Go for it. G5? Wait."
  created: '2008-04-08 02:14:48'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I really wanted to upgrade my Powerbook (PPC G4, 1.5 GHz/1.5 GB DDR SDRAM)
    to Leopard. But after a search on the Apple forums I'm going to wait until I upgrade
    to a new computer.\r\n\r\nSearched for: <a href=\"http://discussions.apple.com/search.jspa?objID=c235&search=Go&q=upgrade+powerbook+g4+to+leopard\">upgrade
    powerbook g4 to leopard</a>"
  created: '2008-04-08 02:59:30'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: Miss Tiffany, I guess your PPC G4 is very noisy. When getting another one,
    pick a power pc g5, they are almost silent.(don't go intel..)
  created: '2008-04-08 03:04:22'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: "Hi Chris, \r\nI have a G5 2gh dual and iMac G5 dual and about to get another
    new Mac... so I will wait. \r\n\r\nthanks all for the well informed posts."
  created: '2008-04-08 03:34:30'
- author:
    name: Robert Trogman
    picture: 111573
  body: I have a Mac Pro and Leopard is not very stable. Stay with Tiger. My G5 blew
    uo with tiger and they had to send me a new machine and they didn't want to send
    me another G5 dual.
  created: '2008-04-08 04:10:24'
- author:
    name: Robert Trogman
    picture: 111573
  body: My G5 dual turned out to be a very noisy machine. The Mac Pro runs quite because
    of the new cooling system.
  created: '2008-04-08 04:11:50'
- author:
    name: BigWave.
    picture: 114659
  body: I have an iMac 2.4 GHz and run with the shipped version of Leopard. I use
    the CS3 design suite a lot and never have problems with them. I think they are
    great together
  created: '2008-04-08 10:50:11'
- author:
    name: Freeza
    picture: 114205
  body: "Never had problems.\r\n\r\n-\r\n\r\nwww.nunocoelho.com"
  created: '2008-04-08 20:05:57'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Stay with Tiger until you upgrade your CS suite. Adobe has stopped developing
    even CS2 and CS3 is not fully compatible with Leopard yet. This has probably been
    said\u2026\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-04-08 21:00:53'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "I've been running CS3 on 10.4 (Tiger) on a MacBook Pro 2.4 Core 2 Duo for
    months with no problems. I see no reason to update to Leopard, which still has
    some stability issues (albeit not so bad now that it's been updated to 10.5.2).
    \r\n\r\nHowever, I think your hardware is more important than your software, in
    this case. A PowerPC Mac will probably give you trouble that an Intel won't.\r\n\r\nAGL,
    why do you recommend against the Intel Macs? They are far, far beyond the PPCs,
    in terms of power and compatibility with newer apps."
  created: '2008-04-08 21:03:55'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "No kidding - my intel Macs run perfectly and much faster than any PPC box.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-04-08 21:22:15'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: PPCs are needed if you have to use older apps, like Freehand. They don't run
    with Intel Macs. I hope that by the time of the next upgrade that old workhorse
    won't be needed anymore. FH has been giving me gray hairs lately even with PPC.
    I only use it anymore to convert documents into Illustrator format.
  created: '2008-04-08 21:25:28'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "I am locked in with 10.4 because I need Classic Mode and also I love the
    fact that I don't need to think on upgrading. When you upgrade it is not just
    the new computer: Be ready to open your pockets up!\r\n\r\nAs for artwork for
    print, your QuarkXpress 3.32, Freehand 5.5 and Photoshop 3.05 Universal do the
    trick and can deliver \xA1 awesome ! artwork, that will later on be opened anywhere
    in this world - even in China.\r\n\r\nJust think your artwork Postscrip \"Level
    II\" - IT WORKS! Still want to upgrade?...\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-08 22:09:53'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "@ AGL, Why on earth do you need classic mode? I'm curious to know what program
    you're using.\r\n\r\nI just bought a new imac (2.8 intel duo extreme, 4gigs of
    ram). The guy told me at the store that 10.5 was somehow optimized for the new
    processors, and in turn, CS3 is indeed optimized for 10.5.\r\n\r\nSomething interesting
    that I didn't know is that InDesign and Illustrator are single-processor aware
    programs, so a second processor (ie Mac Pro/Power Mac) won't do anything for you
    in either app(but that's kinda off topic)."
  created: '2008-04-08 22:30:55'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I've had no problems with CS3 on my PPC running 10.4 \u2014 if someone is
    worried about this I meant to add this."
  created: '2008-04-08 22:49:08'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: Well easily solved... get rid of Freehand. Actually I thought there was a
    'modification' available for Freehand for those who really need it, though don't
    know if it is legit.? I use Adobe CS Suite 3.... I gave up Freehand when I went
    to a large agency and they said "Free what?"... I knew Quark fortunately (like
    driving a tank, blind) then I learnt Illustrator in 2 hours... got the job, I
    try to go with the flow and use the tools available. Also Illustrator CS3 can
    open FH files.
  created: '2008-04-08 22:51:11'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: "I am using CS3 on my G5 2gh dual and iMac 2gh with the functional 10.4.11
    all tigered up and sweet as, no problems, loving it. \r\nSort of an easy point
    though, seems to be 'nay' with the Leopard on a Mac G5 2gh dual... running anything.\r\n\r\n'yay'
    or 'nay'... I'll wait until 10.5.3 - 10.5.5, 10.5.5 has a nicer sound to it if
    you say it out loud."
  created: '2008-04-08 22:57:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mili,\r\nI remember your Freehand story from before. Here is hoping your
    old clients finally let go of the beast and set your hands free :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-08 23:07:40'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "@ chipman223 \"AGL, Why on earth do you need classic mode? I\u2019m curious
    to know what program you\u2019re using.\"\r\n\r\nFor a long long time I had to
    constantly learn the new software that pops up every 3 months. As a production
    artist or prepress tech in a printshop you have to know every single piece of
    c**p that is thrown in the market; secretaries are making flyers and brochures
    with Publisher; that customer of ours only has his text in WordPerfect; the guy
    that plotters the lettering only has CorelDraw7; the 20th century graphic designer
    got to have CS or die! It sure is good to have excellent top notch software and
    that can be seen on your work, but in my personal case I am locked to with OS9
    and Classic, because the legit software that i have is for OS9. Now laugh big
    time, I am still using Quark 3.32 right out of the floppy discs! Whatever I do
    can be opened anywhere and RIPs just fine. Even in China. \r\nLetterpress is very
    limited business, most of the artwork is vector and, if think screens, you have
    to think with 60 lpi or less, so any piece of program from the digital Renaissance
    works just great and allow the making of any TIF cmyk, vector editable eps.\r\nOf
    course, to surf the web I use Safari, and you would be surprise how Grab and Preview
    are useful... combined with AppleWorks 6 ;-)\r\n\r\n@concrete:\r\nIn the USA some
    people (like my last supervisor...) hate Freehand. I guess it is like that because
    people like Illustrator best. To draw Freehand used to be the best (version 8
    and 9). I like illustrator and indesign cs2, but my budget right now is very low
    and between buying software or lead type, I buy lead.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2008-04-09 03:47:20'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: "@AGL:  I am looking out the window... I have the 1,000 yard stare... \r\n
    \r\nso anyway I will go for the 'nay' on Leopard for now, Tigger is running smoothly
    with CS 3 and all my other applications."
  created: '2008-04-09 04:44:14'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Freehand... I transferred a newsletter to InDesign some years ago. My client
    had a designer coming back from maternity leave and she was given the job. She
    transferred it back to Freehand. Now she's gone and the newsletter came back tome.
    I just moved everything back to InDesign, again.\r\nIn Finland Freehand has been
    very commonly used, and it's not going away very fast, it seems. "
  created: '2008-04-09 06:27:17'
- author:
    name: rectangular
    picture: 114412
  body: "I upgraded to leopard. I run CS3 apps daily, including indesign on an intel
    machine. I made sure to back everything up manually, then did an full format,
    then installed on my clean hard drive. It was significantly easy for me however,
    as I have a hard drive for my OS + programs, then 2 hard drives set as RAID-1
    mirrored for all my work. I unplugged my work hard drives during the install just
    in case.\r\n\r\nI went to the apple store before I switched and played around
    with all the CS3 apps. But i couldn't be happier, leopard seems to run smoother,
    and although I was unsure, I now visually enjoy it more. "
  created: '2008-04-09 07:17:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...designer coming back from maternity leave and she was given the job.
    She transferred it back to Freehand.\"\r\n\r\nMili,\r\nPerhaps you should switch
    that lady's birth control pills with sugar pills to keep her pregnant and away
    from your office :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-09 16:19:37'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: "(hijacking my own posting, did I?...)\r\n\r\nre:Freehand: \r\nWhat ever tool
    works for you, end of the day it comes down to the person operating the software
    and what they produce, you may have all the latest bells and whistles to design
    with, though if you suck... you suck, no application is going to help.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    Adobe could get a suggestive programme, a little pop up, \"do you really want
    to that, how about doing this?\" like the Microsoft man (eeewwh) not on my Mac\r\n\r\nahem
    anyway, Leopard and Adobe CS3 Suite on a 'PowerMac G5 dual 2gh' if anyone is having
    success, please let me know, based on: Leopard and Adobe CS3 Suite on a 'PowerMac
    G5 dual 2gh' or any PowerPC G5 Mac\r\n\r\nnot G4, not freewilly, not OS 9, not
    Quark, not Classic or any other relic thanks"
  created: '2008-04-10 22:29:43'
- author:
    name: artistre
    picture: 114644
  body: "RE:CS3Suite compatability:\r\nI use it at home on my G4 Macpro powerbook
    with tiger 10.4.9 and I have no problems. However In the office I have a New Imac
    with Leopard and\r\nI have issues. It forgets its registered for one. Photoshop
    and Indesign\r\ntend to Freeze with complicated files. I like my imac and was
    going to \r\nget one for at home too but I will wait till G3 upgrades."
  created: '2008-04-11 04:03:49'
- author:
    name: Lakeway Graphics
    picture: 114265
  body: 'Mac OS X Leopards greatest feature: Spaces. Mac OS X Leopards greatest weakness
    for Adobe Apps: Spaces. Adobe CS 3 works great on Mac Pro Intel desktop as long
    as you don''t use Spaces. If you use Spaces, your palettes will disappear every
    time you change from one space to another. HItting the tab key will restore them,
    but if you are using the text tool, you will get tabbed text until you click outside
    a text box.'
  created: '2008-04-11 05:19:45'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "I'm not sure why one would need to go to Leopard at this point, if you haven't
    bought an Intel equipped Mac. As a typographer, is there something inherently
    better with CS3 and Leopard?\r\n\r\nI run a souped up G4 (souped up mainly for
    the internet and video, not type) and have another G4 with Classic. I have the
    ability to create Multiple Master instances with Classic and I favor Streamline
    over Illustrator's Trace, so it often comes in handy for the work I do. Mainly
    the concern with older computers and software is the ability to port over. With
    a G4 or even a G3, this is still not a problem. \r\n\r\nThe speed of a MacPro
    is great but that really has little to do with typographic needs, especially if
    we are talking about print. The last great advance in the typographic realm was
    OT. And, quite frankly, that was nowhere near as earth shattering as PostScript
    Type I. It's got some bells and whistles, but those have come at some cost; the
    loss of multiple masters, lack of user control of letterform configuration, etc.
    If you like your soup canned, great; but how does it taste?\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2008-04-11 07:38:37'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "just to clarify some mixed up assumptions, my understanding is that :\r\n\r\n1)
    CS2 was optimized for pre-Intel Macs running Tiger.\r\n\r\n2) CS3 was introduced
    for Intel Macs running Tiger. \r\n\r\n3) Then Leopard came out and various CS3
    upgrades were \r\ninevitable and are ongoing.\r\n\r\nI'm running CS2 on a pre-Intel
    G5 iMac w/ Tiger - no problems.\r\nI'm also running CS3 on an Intel MacPro laptop
    w/ Tiger - no problems.\r\n\r\nI'm holding off on Leopard until some of the issues
    i've heard about \r\nare worked out."
  created: '2008-04-11 19:08:06'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Leopard will one day be a great operating system \u2014 better than Tiger
    \u2014 but it isn't at present, I think. Anyone who wants Spaces for multiple
    desktops \u2014 and for me this feature is something I can't live without \u2014
    then YouControl multiple desktops is far better and lets you have a different
    desktop picture for every desktop. I have Leopard installed on a different drive
    and I use it for some things but not for using CS2 (I'm skipping CS3!), which
    works perfectly in Tiger on my G5.\r\n\r\nAnyhoo \u2014 how long til CS4 arrives?"
  created: '2008-04-12 01:38:37'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABI use it at home on my G4 Macpro powerbook\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nLovely
    machine, that."
  created: '2008-04-13 00:02:34'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: "CS4... will it be Cocoa or Carbon, not 64 bit yet as the CS4 Windows version
    will be. I want functional, though now there are applications that are Leopard
    only, though I don't really need, them... not at the expense of functionality
    and sanity. So Tiger and CS3 will have to work for now, though then that puts
    me in a 'what the heck do I do' situation of getting new Macs, as I want all of
    them to be running the same OS and applications.\r\n\r\nfor me enough said, on
    this forum."
  created: '2008-04-13 00:27:39'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: Just buy a new Mac and put Tiger on it. Problem solved!
  created: '2008-04-13 13:49:48'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABJust buy a new Mac and put Tiger on it. Problem solved!\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nNot
    necessarily possible.\r\n\r\nIn many cases (as far as I know, in all cases, actually,
    but I\u2019m not certain), it\u2019s not possible to install any older version
    of OS X than what the machine shipped with. If you buy a new Mac now, it should
    ship with Leopard, in which case you won\u2019t be able to install Tiger on it."
  created: '2008-04-14 00:42:30'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: You really want Time Machine it was so over-do. Tell me the last time you
    updated your files? I don't even think about it any more.
  created: '2008-04-14 01:19:00'
- author:
    name: Katharina
    picture: 112995
  body: "\"it\u2019s not possible to install any older version of OS X than what the
    machine shipped with.\"\r\n\r\nYes, Oisin, it is possible. I did it on my Mac
    - I had to re-install the OS and by mistake I installed Panther; actually the
    Mac had been running on Tiger, which I installed when I noticed what I had done."
  created: '2008-04-14 09:40:32'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: "Hi it is apparently not advised to install Tiger over a shipped Leopard unit,
    has something to do with firmware?... something not to mess with. Have heard of
    some dire results.\r\n\r\nAt the risk of having a my Mac not functioning properly
    or not at all, it is a LARGE part of my business... Leopard is presenting itself
    as not being stable on G5 2gh dual processor Power PC Macs.. for those wanting
    to do this, post your results here. based on the said Hardware running CS3. "
  created: '2008-04-14 09:57:53'
- author:
    name: Katharina
    picture: 112995
  body: You are right, you can't install an older version over a new one, but maybe
    by deleting the new version first ...? Anyway, I should consult an expert before
    going ahead and crashing the system.
  created: '2008-04-14 10:26:07'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABYes, Oisin, it is possible. I did it on my Mac - I had to re-install
    the OS and by mistake I installed Panther; actually the Mac had been running on
    Tiger, which I installed when I noticed what I had done.\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nHow
    odd. I recently changed the hard drive in a brand new MacBook that shipped with
    Leopard. Afterwards, I wanted to install Tiger instead of Leopard on it, since
    my friend whose computer it was likes Tiger better than Leopard, too; but when
    I tried booting from the Tiger install disc, it simply told me that \u201CThis
    operating system cannot be installed on this hardware\u201D (or however that particular
    message goes).\r\n\r\nSomething someone said on a Mac forum led me to believe
    that this was a universal occurrence, that the version the computer originally
    shipped with was the earliest that could be installed, so I just let it go.\r\n\r\nAre
    you sure your Mac didn\u2019t originally ship with Panther, and you then upgraded
    it to Tiger afterwards?"
  created: '2008-04-14 12:37:43'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: "OK.... I have done it. Upgraded to Leopard as a clean install. Re-installed
    Adobe CS....note to self FIRST DEACTIVATE ADOBE CS SUITE BEFORE WIPING...and too
    other applications that require this, ie iTunes. Somehow got through it.\r\n\r\nWorking
    great... very fast... taking a while getting use to Leopard."
  created: '2008-07-13 08:20:18'
- author:
    name: iljajj
    picture: 115419
  body: "It is possible to install older OS X versions on your machine with some tweaks
    (and lots of time) but for a variety of reasons I wouldn't recommend it if you
    were going to use if for production. Leopard was dire when it was released but
    after 10.5.2 I found it manageable, not much worse than Tiger. Since I'm running
    an Intel Machine, staying with CS2 wasn't really an option, and I'm quite happy
    with the current configuration.\r\n\r\nILja\r\n\r\n====\r\n\"Criticism is prejudice
    made plausible\" - H.L. Mencken"
  created: '2008-07-13 09:42:22'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: Hi... going forward really... no problems am with CS3 and Leopard on all Macs,
    general speed increase. Only problem noticed was the pasting from Indesign to
    Illustrator...  <a href="http://kb.adobe.com/selfservice/viewContent.do?externalId=kb403811&sliceId=2">this
    is an issue Adobe are aware of</a>
  created: '2008-07-14 09:36:01'
date: '2008-04-06 12:20:11'
node_type: forum
title: Leopard/Adobe CS users

---
