---
author:
  name: Si_Daniels
  picture: 110446
body: "This came up at the Business of Type Event on Friday, and yes Apple font people
  were given a heads up...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Capture_3793.JPG]\r\n\r\n...from
  the Fonts section of the main Safari page on Apple.com - http://www.apple.com/safari/\r\n\r\nOne
  of the biggest concerns around the Web fonts scheme is that Web designers would
  post commercial fonts through either ignorance or disregard of font licensing rights.
  \ Apple were aware of this (both Safari folks and Font folks) so I find it hard
  to understand why they\u2019re telling web designers that they can post any font
  to the Web. \r\n\r\nThis is probably a break-down in communication between marketing
  folks and the font/browser folks, but the damage has been done \u2013 Mac World
  appears to have parroted the misinformation in their recent Safari review... \r\n\r\nhttp://www.macworld.com/article/132708/2008/03/safari31.html
  \r\n\r\nHopefully Apple will fix this quickly, and post material that directs web
  designers to freeware fonts that can be used with the scheme.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'That sounds very damaging. This is *exactly* the sort of information that
    leads people to think some things are ok. '
  created: '2008-04-07 17:03:14'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Wow, this sounds like  a declaration of war to me. Apple declares war on
    type designers and font foundries. Who would've thought?\r\n\r\nPerhaps if enough
    people complain, they will change their website copy. Just like that whole wrong-quotation-marks
    thing in the <em>New York Times</em> anti-Vista ad\u2026"
  created: '2008-04-07 17:09:35'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Si, any chance that you (or other attendees) could publish an online re-cap
    of the Business of Type event? I'm not asking for full presentation decks or discussion
    minutes or anything; I know that some of that must be private. But just an event
    summary\u2026 like you commonly see on blogs after TypeCon or the ATypI conference?"
  created: '2008-04-07 17:13:34'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "It isn\u2019t Apple\u2019s job to educate designers about font licensing.
    It would certainly be good of them to point it out, but nobody should expect them
    to do it. If the foundries aren\u2019t licensing their fonts for web embedding,
    it\u2019s their responsibility to be very upfront about it. This has been coming
    for years, foundries really should have started doing more than just tucking a
    \u201Cno embedding\u201D provision into EULAs, which most people never bother
    to read. Put the terms up there in big red letters that people will actually see
    before they click \u201Cbuy.\u201D"
  created: '2008-04-07 17:28:56'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "It's not Apple's job to educate, but when they make misleading and arguably
    false claims like \"limitless choices\" (from the press release) and \"use any
    font they want\" (from the web site), then there's a problem.\r\n\r\nI pinged
    Apple on Saturday and followed up this morning as well. Maybe I'm an optimist,
    but I'd expect the text will be changed some time this week. As I said on Friday
    in our panel discussion on Web fonts, this is the sort of thing that can easily
    happen at any big company when the PR/marketing folks go off and write something
    without quite enough careful vetting by the technical folks. Not that I'd know
    that myself, nosirreeBob.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-07 17:38:19'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">It isn\u2019t Apple\u2019s job to educate designers about font licensing.
    \r\n\r\nSorry, but I disagree. There are various options re. developer education
    around technologies that redistribute fonts. I believe that it absolutely is the
    responsibility of people who make font-exploiting technology to help developers
    and users stay legal. Here's a recent example from Microsoft - http://windowsclient.net/wpf/starter-kits/sce/sce-howto-using-fonts.aspx
    \r\n\r\nI can understand why a Apple might want to stay silent, and that might
    have been the safest thing for them to do legally. But in this case they are giving
    plain bad advice to web page designers, and that needs to be fixed.\r\n\r\n>Si,
    any chance that you (or other attendees) could publish an online re-cap of the
    Business of Type event?\r\n\r\nWe're working on that.\r\n\r\n>Perhaps if enough
    people complain, they will change their website copy. Just like that whole wrong-quotation-marks
    thing in the New York Times anti-Vista ad\u2026\r\n\r\nI think this is a good
    test to see how seriously they take this problem. The ad in question was fixed
    within 24hrs, correct? And that involved editing a multipart Flash animation.
    This should be a quick fix. Clock is ticking.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-07 17:46:31'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I find it hard to understand why they\u2019re telling web designers that
    they can post any font to the Web.\"\r\n\r\nIt's called 'marketing'. Marketing
    usually has little to nothing to do with the product's inherit abilities or lack
    thereof. \r\n\r\n\"I believe that it absolutely is the responsibility of people
    who make font-exploiting technology to help developers and users stay legal.\"\r\n\r\nIANAL,
    but I think this would be really bad precedence. Just because you CAN copy a book
    on a photocopier, should the photocopier manufacturer be liable for you infringing
    copyright? \r\n\r\nIt'd be NICE if apple's marketing folks ran this kind of stuff
    through their developers and added important details like we're discussing here,
    but I can't say Apple HAS to do that on any legal grounds.\r\n\r\n\"But in this
    case they are giving plain bad advice to web page designers\"\r\n\r\nEh...any
    competent web designer isn't going to believe anything on a marketing web site
    anyways. Mom the scrapbooker might believe it, though. So, yea, some concern there.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-07 18:05:03'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "> <em>Just because you CAN copy a book on a photocopier, should the photocopier
    manufacturer be liable for you infringing copyright?</em>\r\n\r\nDon't newer scanners
    and printers prohibit you from copying and printing money?"
  created: '2008-04-07 18:12:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I've seen plenty of photocopiers that have warning notices on them, and I've
    seen plenty of photocopiers with no warning (or one buried in the manual). What
    I've not seen is a photocopier with a notice from Xerox saying - \"go ahead use
    me to photocopy anything you like, it's all good.\" \r\n\r\n>should the photocopier
    manufacturer be liable for you infringing copyright? \r\n\r\nI'm not saying the're
    any liability if you stay silent, what I'm saying is that it's good customer service
    to give your customers a heads-up. "
  created: '2008-04-07 18:23:43'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "If web designers can post \"any font\" for use with Safari, what exactly
    makes this a 'marketing' issue?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-04-07 18:37:14'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Don\u2019t newer scanners and printers prohibit you from copying and printing
    money?\"\r\n\r\nThey try. But that's a counterfeiting issue rather than IP infringement.\r\n\r\n\"what
    I\u2019m saying is that it\u2019s good customer service to give your customers
    a heads-up\"\r\n\r\nNo argument there. Let me know if you ever find a software
    company that does that. ;o)"
  created: '2008-04-07 18:37:51'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"what exactly makes this a \u2019marketing\u2019 issue\"\r\n\r\nThe text
    on Apple's web site (aside from the support section) is, in all likelihood, owned
    by marketing.\r\n\r\nSaying you can upload any font for use with safari is true,
    just greatly overstating the feature both technically and legally. But that's
    what marketing does. The fine print/asterisks/caveats/gotchas are reserved for
    the back pages of the documentation or the knowledge-base articles, or some blog
    post somewhere in the future..."
  created: '2008-04-07 18:46:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Let me know if you ever find a software company that does that.\r\n\r\n;-)
    You are too funny!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-07 18:46:57'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'I would guess the amount of people using Safari is limited and the damage
    is probably limited if they take action. '
  created: '2008-04-07 19:15:48'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Don\u2019t newer scanners and printers prohibit you from copying and
    printing money?</cite>\r\n\r\nNot the hardware, but some scanning software and
    Photoshop will not scan US money properly. Most color laser printers sold in the
    states tag every document with unnoticeable serial numbers. But doing so with
    fonts means bringing back font DRM, which some important entities are openly against.\r\n\r\nThe
    purpose of my comment was not to elevate Apple\u2019s actions above criticism.
    I just wanted to point out that this will not be the first time this happens,
    that the type industry should expect these incidents to happen, and foundries
    need to start being proactive and creative about licensing and educating users
    before it becomes a problem\u2014i.e. before Firefox or IE jump on board. Some
    people are already doing so\u2014creative license models, Adobe working with the
    AIGA on student fonts, Microsoft\u2019s event hosting and of course, all the industry
    types talking about it here and elsewhere. But if you guys slip, you could end
    up in a nasty hole like the record industry, and that\u2019s not something anyone
    in the industry really wants, is it?"
  created: '2008-04-07 19:19:13'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Hm, I'd like to play the devil's advocate for a moment ... if the text read
    \"With <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mosaic_%28web_browser%29\">NCSA
    Mosaic</a>, web designers can go beyond text and use any image they like to create
    stunning web sites ...\", would you want the Web back without images? Or would
    anybody come to believe from that sentence that no legal restrictions would apply?
    That would be just naive.\r\n\r\nOkay, granted, there are too many naive people
    doing so-called web design. It all boils down to that people must be educated
    to respect intellectual property more. (I know, it's easy to say.)"
  created: '2008-04-07 19:42:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...Not that I\u2019d know that myself, nosirreeBob.\"\r\n\r\nThe corporate
    world has its own axis :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-07 19:42:46'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<cite>Hm, I\u2019d like to play the devil\u2019s advocate for a moment ...
    if the text read \u201CWith NCSA Mosaic, web designers can go beyond text and
    use any image they like to create stunning web sites ...\u201D, would you want
    the Web back without images?</cite>\r\n\r\nMr. Kutilek hits the nail on the head:\r\n\r\nWhile
    fonts <strong>are not</strong> copyrightable in most countries (although Typophiles
    wish they were), images or pictures (\"pictorial works\" as per US Copyright Law)
    <strong>are</strong> copyrightable in most countries, but many Typophiles do not
    hesitate to upload copyrighted pictures to Typophile threads without having obtained
    the permission to do so from the picture copyright owners. The Typophile website
    threads abound with pictures, for which the publication rights have not been acquired.\r\n\r\nLook,
    for instance, at the start of this thread: Even this tiny picture (screen shot)
    inserted by Mr. Daniels probably is copyrightable, although this might be disputed
    at court, but by browsing through other Typophile threads you certainly will find
    many copyrighted pictures, for which the uploaders never acquired the picture
    publication rights.\r\n\r\nIf you download the pictures made by others, \"as they're
    are needed\", and upload them without permission to your website, why do you complain
    that Apple Inc. intends to do the same with your fonts by downloading them without
    permission, \"as they're needed\" by Safari?\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-07 20:37:38'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Interesting point, Uli.
  created: '2008-04-07 20:39:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The thing is, a tiny 72 dpi image does not have scalability and usability
    as a piece of softwarre. I would not have a problem seeing images of type at 72dpi
    on web sites but I would objectto the useable font being extracted by the browser
    and made available as free software to pirates as well as naive users who would
    assume anything on the web is free. Think of Si's image as a small quote of text
    as opposed to stealing an entire novel and selling it as your own.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-07 20:47:19'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "Uli is back! Wooo!\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-07 20:58:41'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Wooo!\r\n\r\nI agree with Chris (Apple lawyers please don\u2019t come after
    me) ;-) there\u2019s a difference between the hi-res \xA9 photograph and a 60px
    x 60px picture of a Seahawk helmet (at least I hope so). In the case of the Safari
    scheme we\u2019re talking complete, unobfuscated, unsubsetted source fonts. However,
    it\u2019s been my experience that drawing analogies between fonts and other forms
    of IP, be that pictures, music, books, etc., almost always break down."
  created: '2008-04-07 21:00:36'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Note Apple said you CAN, as in, you are able to technically.  Apple didn't
    say you MAY use any font.  Mincing words yes, but that's what marketing is about.
    \ Web designers <em>can</em> post any font.  That doesn't mean they <em>may</em>.
    \ I can use any picture I want on my website, of course as well *\r\n\r\nYes,
    it's bad advertising that I agree should be changed, but it's not encouraging
    people to violate their licenses either.\r\n\r\n* Provided I obtain proper permission.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-07 21:21:50'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "In some cases, because we\u2019re having discussions about the images or
    their subjects, and the images are being used in part or at small scale, and for
    no profit, use of said images constitutes fair use. At least in does in the USA,
    where Typophile is hosted and maintained. Redistributing an entire font, especially
    when done to make a profit, is very different."
  created: '2008-04-07 21:27:46'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">* Provided I obtain proper permission.\r\n\r\nI think adding \"(license
    permitting)\" after \"any font\" would be a good quick fix.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-07 21:36:30'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: ' Uli has a point, but it''s not really about ''lo-res'' vs. ''hi-res''. It''s
    more of an issue of fair use and/or common sense. '
  created: '2008-04-07 21:59:15'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "In the Netherlands (and I guess in most of the world) people are supposed
    to know the law. In other words: everyone has to find out if there are rules regarding
    the things they do. May it be driving a car, selling fruit, designing a website
    \u2014 you need to know what\u2019s forbidden, restricted, allowed, etcetera.\r\n\r\nSame
    goes for using some typeface on your site with the technology Apple provides.
    If the law, the typedesigner or the typeseller forbids this, you just can\u2019t
    do it. Even when Apple suggests you could. But then, Apple also suggests you can
    make a video masterpiece using Final Cut. : )\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen
    BNO"
  created: '2008-04-07 22:11:08'
- author:
    name: dontbugme
    picture: 110809
  body: "The headline for <em>this thread</em> is dynamically created from a commercial
    font using Flash and Javascript. \r\n\r\nWhy is Safari making this exact same
    thing possible with CSS wrong and illegal if doing it with Flash and Javascript
    is not? \r\n"
  created: '2008-04-07 22:38:12'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "Yeah I agree with Bert. Sure there's maybe like some soccer mom in Minnesota
    who thinks all fonts on the internet are free... but the majority of professional
    designers know the general laws surrounding copyright. They just choose to ignore
    them.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-07 22:44:52'
- author:
    name: Jamie Longstaff
  body: I think many people are missing a bigger issue here which is that Safari is
    only implementing something that is already a published web standard from the
    Worldwide Web Consortium.  Whatever the marketing hyperbole from Apple, web fonts
    will eventually be a feature of every browser and designers and font foundries
    need to recognise this.
  created: '2008-04-07 22:46:45'
- author:
    name: ragscoon
  body: ">The thing is, a tiny 72 dpi image does not have scalability and usability
    as a piece of software...\r\n\r\nAh.. But that all depends on the person, his
    abilities and the useage. I know ways to take 72dpi images from the net, tweek
    and rez up them in photoshop and use them on the side of Buses.\r\n\r\nBut again
    as was stated before by Aluminum about Uli's point is that it's more about fair
    use and/or common sense.\r\n\r\nI think part of the problem lies in how easy it
    is to pass a font from place to place with out retribution. Where a copyrighted
    image when the same is done.. the creator pushes much harder to bring retribution
    for it's mis-use.\r\n\r\nP.S. Pardon my grammer I'm more of a visual person."
  created: '2008-04-07 22:47:01'
- author:
    name: biggerfish
    picture: 114687
  body: "Who sez you can't scan money?\r\n\r\nhttp://gethelveticaoffourmoney.com/\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-07 23:54:29'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>\"While fonts are not copyrightable in most countries\"</cite>\r\n\r\nThey
    certainly are in the USA, which is the country Apple is most primarily operating
    in. The fonts in question are the actual digital font files. As far as I know,
    most countries recognize digital fonts as software and as therefore subject to
    copyright as software. Certainly the USA does.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-04-08 00:26:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">The headline for this thread is dynamically created from a commercial font
    using Flash and Javascript. \r\n>Why is Safari making this exact same thing possible
    with CSS wrong and illegal if doing it with Flash and Javascript is not?\r\n\r\nYou\u2019re
    missing the point, it\u2019s not \"wrong\" or \"illegal\" to post \"a font\" to
    a web site \u2013 the point of this thread is that Apple\u2019s promotional material
    suggests that Web designers can post \u201Cany font\u201D, when the reality is
    that no known commercial fonts can be used under the scheme. If Adobe\u2019s material
    said the same thing about Flash embedding it would be wrong, just not as wrong
    as Apple\u2019s statement as many commercial font licenses allow for Flash embedding.
    \r\n\r\n>I think many people are missing a bigger issue here which is that Safari
    is only implementing something that is already a published web standard from the
    Worldwide Web Consortium.\r\n\r\nActually been discussing the \u201Cbigger issue\u201D
    on Typophile since the issue resurfaced in 2006. I started this thread to specifically
    address the Apple positioning of the technology.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-08 06:05:22'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<cite>\u201CWhile fonts are not copyrightable in most countries...\u201D</cite>
    (Ulrich Stiehl)\r\n\r\n<cite>\"They certainly are in the USA, which is the country
    Apple is most primarily operating in. The fonts in question are the actual digital
    font files. As far as I know, most countries recognize digital fonts as software
    and as therefore subject to copyright as software. Certainly the USA does.\"</cite>
    (Thomas Phinney)\r\n\r\nMr. Phinney:\r\n\r\nThis is the famous fairy tale you
    have been propagating for many years.\r\n\r\nLet us assume, Germany belongs to
    your <cite>\"most countries\"</cite>\r\n(\"As far as I [Thomas Phinney] know\").\r\n\r\nIf
    so, then quote the German law and/or the German Supreme Court decision ruling
    that fonts are copyrightable. You will not be able to do so with regard to Germany,
    because your story of \"copyrightable fonts\" is a fairy tale.\r\n\r\nAnd you
    will not be able to do this with regard to France, Belgium, Italy, Spain, Portugal,
    etc. etc. etc. etc. etc. etc., because your story of \"copyrightable fonts\" is
    a fairy tale. Only little children think that fairy tales become true by telling
    them over and over again.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Certainly the USA does\"</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    do not know an American Copyright Law nor do I know an American Supreme Court
    decision ruling that fonts are copyrightable.\r\n\r\n<strong>You</strong>, who
    you as an American are claiming that this is so, should at least be able to specify
    the section of the American Copyright Law ruling that fonts are copyrightable
    and/or to specify the American Supreme Court decision ruling that fonts are copyrightable.
    But even with regard to your own country, you cannot specify this to make your
    fairy tale become true.\r\n\r\nPS: The <strong>design</strong> of \"new and original\"
    fonts may be registered in certain countries, e.g in Germany, on the basis of
    a design law (\"GeschmMG\" in Germany), but this has nothing to do with copyright
    laws.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-08 06:15:00'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "<cite>the point of this thread is that Apple\u2019s promotional material
    suggests that Web designers can post \u201Cany font\u201D, when the reality is
    that no known commercial fonts can be used under the scheme. </cite>\r\nAgain,
    the key word is can.  You CAN post any known commercial font, provided it's not
    in any odd known format.  Whether or not you MAY is another question entirely.\r\n\r\nTeacher,
    can I go to the bathroom?\r\n\u2014 Well, I don't know, can you?\r\n\r\nTeacher,
    may I go to the bathroom?\r\n\u2014Yes, you may.\r\n\r\nAgain, this is not to
    say that I don't think it's a bit misleading, but still, we can't fault them for
    being inaccurate.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas
    nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-04-08 08:04:14'
- author:
    name: BaB
    picture: 111375
  body: Don't you see that new fonts will get exposed to new customers? It shouldn't
    even be illegal for copying and font foundries can still web-embed their fonts.
  created: '2008-04-08 08:27:19'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "I have to second Jens and guifa here.\r\n\r\nThey say you can use any font.
    And yes, you technically can. Whether you legally are allowed to or not is a completely
    other question and its up to you to check that.\r\n\r\nThey merely claim to provide
    the technology, so that you <em>can</em>, what they actually do."
  created: '2008-04-08 09:44:22'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "On the other hand, Apple has its HQ in the US. And over there they have a
    strange interpretation of law (why would a microwave producer have to put a warning
    sign \"not for drying pets\" onto it, to avoid ligitation? -- actually, is that
    an urban legend or not? Even if so: very telling).\r\n\r\nSo it may be a concern
    for _their_ legal department not to claim such a possibility of using any font."
  created: '2008-04-08 09:46:05'
- author:
    name: vanblokland
    picture: 110442
  body: "Something which doesn't seem to be an issue in the discussion so far is safety.
    \r\n\r\nIt is possible to build fonts which crash rasterisers. I can think of
    a couple opportunities in a .ttf or .otf which can cause serious problems in the
    app and the OS. Fonts are part of a text engine, usually integrated deeply into
    the OS. Fonts are subject to ambiguous standards and can contain many values which
    catch the rasteriser unaware. Integrity tests for fonts usually catch some of
    the problems, but never all of them. (Aside, it seems the PostScript Type 1 format
    is great for non-downloadable fonts). So far, bad fonts were always dealt with
    by the person who installed them. Even when something goes wrong, the user will
    usually know what happened and how to solve it.\r\n\r\nIn the context of a website
    there is no sanity check on the server end, it is up to the browser to make sure
    the font is fit. The user will be unaware of any potential problems in a webpage
    which is about to open.\r\n\r\nSpeculating, if the fonts-for-download is part
    of WebKit, it won't have its own rasteriser and the Doomsday.ttf might be possible.
    Speculating even more, Mail.app uses webkit, it would be possible to make an html
    mail message which links to malevolent fonts. It might even work on the iPhone,
    depending on how much code is shared between the iPhone and MacOSX.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    Apple has separated the rasteriser in Safari from the rest of the OS. Perhaps
    Safari also checks the integrity of the font after download. In that case a bad
    font would just not load. But if a bad font isn't caught, and with a rasteriser
    in Safari, it could crash the app, but not the OS. In the worst possible case,
    if Safari uses the OS rasteriser, it could trigger a series of crashes which eventually
    take the whole OS down. And that is quite unacceptable.\r\n\r\nAt the very least,
    the downloading of fonts should be covered in the security prefs of Safari, and
    off by default. A bad font can do more damage than a run away javascript. Even
    Java and Flash don't have access to the core OS functions as fonts do. But these
    do have their own controls in the security prefs.\r\n\r\nAnd that's just Safari.
    Will Firefox be able to follow to same safety precautions Safari might have?\r\n\r\nOf
    course, all of these problems can be fixed in rasterisers and font handling code.
    But given that rasterisers, after almost 20 years of improvements, still contain
    problems, makes me wonder how fast browser and rasteriser builders can respond.\r\n\r\nJust
    my 2\xA2 of gloom."
  created: '2008-04-08 10:40:57'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Dez:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"The thing is, a tiny 72 dpi image does not have scalability
    and usability as a piece of softwarre. I would not have a problem seeing images
    of type at 72dpi on web sites but...\"</cite>\r\n\r\nSii:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"I agree
    with Chris (Apple lawyers please don\u2019t come after me) ;-) there\u2019s a
    difference between the hi-res \xA9 photograph and a 60px x 60px picture of a Seahawk
    helmet...\"</cite>\r\n\r\nAlthough it is awfully boring for me to explain again
    and again the most simple notions of copyright law, I will try to explain them
    again. For this purpose I refer to a copyrighed picture in this new Typophile
    thread\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/43945\r\n\r\nThe \"Ali boxing poster\"
    shown in this thread is indubitably a \"work of art\".  The date 1975 proves that
    this poster was made roughly 30 years ago. If the poster was made in the USA,
    then it will be protected by copyright for a period of 70 years post mortem auctoris
    (after the authors's death). So nobody except the author (here the designer or
    painter) or his/her assignee (e.g. the company which acquired the picture rights)
    is allowed to publish this picture.\r\n\r\nIt does not matter, whether this poster
    is photographed or scanned or reproduced by whatever technical means, and it does
    not matter, whether this reproduction is done in high or low resolution: In all
    these cases, you have to acquire the publication rights from the author or his/her
    assignees.\r\n\r\nEven if you want to reproduce this poster in a very tiny size
    and in very low resolution, e.g. as a postal stamp, you will have to obtain the
    right to do so.\r\n\r\nTherefore, the publication of this Ali poster as a scanned
    reproduction in low resolution at the Typophile thread\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/43945\r\n\r\nconstitutes
    a copyright infringement, unless he who uploaded this picture has acquired the
    right to reproduce this poster on the Typophile website.\r\n\r\nLet us assume
    this legal information just given by me were not correct, and everybody were allowed
    to upload scans and photos of any pictures to any websites, then for example,
    everyone were allowed to scan all pictures painted by Picasso and upload them
    to whatever internet sites. This of course is definitely illegal and would constitute
    an infringement of copyright, in the very same way, as the publication of the
    Ali poster constitutes an infringement of copyright.\r\n\r\nEnd of tutorial. I
    need some fresh air now.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-08 11:06:38'
- author:
    name: alastairh
  body: "It doesn\u2019t matter whether fonts are copyrightable or not. That only
    affects your ability to sue people who have been given copies illegally by someone
    who owns a legal copy. It doesn\u2019t change the fact that fonts are only distributed
    subject to a licence agreement; if you don\u2019t comply with the agreement, you
    could be sued for breach of contract, even if in your country fonts are not subject
    to copyright.\r\n\r\nIn a sense, therefore, the issue of copyright here is a red
    herring. The real issue is that fonts are licensed, and that the licence agreement
    (which is a contract between two parties, and applies regardless of copyright
    law) would in many cases be breached by distributing a font file in the manner
    presently supported by Safari. And since many users don\u2019t bother reading
    or following licence agreements, the likelihood of a breach is high. Hence the
    complaints here about Apple\u2019s marketing of Safari\u2019s new feature.\r\n\r\nPersonally
    I would like to see support for subsetting and maybe a new file format for web
    fonts that can't be easily installed by end users.  This has been tried in the
    past (WEFT, for instance), and I think it's the only way that those of us who
    would like to be able to embed fonts on the web are going to be able to convince
    the commercial type foundries to permit this type of usage.  It also has the advantage
    of not requiring every visitor to your site to download large font files when
    all they needed was the letters \u2018a\u2019 through \u2018z\u2019. But it needs
    to be standardised across platforms and browsers, or nobody will want to use it.\r\n\r\n--\r\nhttp://alastairs-place.net"
  created: '2008-04-08 11:55:38'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: "click around on these two sites ....\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.utsystem.edu/ogc/intellectualproperty/distance.htm#fu\">good
    reading on Fair Use</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.chillingeffects.org/\">Chilling
    Effects</a>\r\n\r\nand read this\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fas.org/irp/crs/RL31423.pdf\">Fair
    Use on the Internet (pdf)</a>\r\n\r\ni haven't gotten through all of it, but it
    seems that Typophile's use of images would constitute Fair Use under most reasonable
    interpretations. If it wasn't 4 a.m., I'd make a more detailed post.\r\n\r\n\r\nalso
    interesting is the notion of an <a href=\"http://www.utsystem.edu/ogc/intellectualProperty/useofnet.htm\">Implied
    License</a> when you post something on the internet. \r\n\r\n<cite>Whenever an
    author posts anything to the Internet, he or she should reasonably expect that
    it will be read, downloaded, printed out, and perhaps forwarded on a limited basis.
    The author impliedly grants a limited license to users to utilize the work in
    this manner.</cite>\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-08 12:00:46'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Erik\r\n\r\nI would hope that Safari is running its own text renderer (even
    if just a separate instance in a sandbox of sorts) because it is lacking many
    text rendering features standard in CoreText.  Neither required ligatures or kerning
    render, both of which feature in any standard NSTextField that you can do in Interface
    Builder in a dummy app (one that just has a single NIB file and no code).  \r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure why Apple turned off those features, but I do know they (oddly) have
    inconsistent font technology between their programs.  Why would it be that TextEdit
    (which uses the available-to-anyone NSTextView) have a more advanced engine that
    Safari or even Pages?  My only guess is that they don't expect very large documents
    in a program that would use NSTextView, or that it's not as highly optimized as
    the engines used in Safari or Pages where speed is more important, especially
    for long HTML pages or doctoral dissertations, and they've cut out features or
    done other optimizations.\r\n\r\nOne of the main features I've noticed (and irritated
    me to know end with some of my term papers) is that Pages does not support combining
    diacritics very well (needed for putting the tilde on a lc Q).  \r\n  \r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-04-08 12:42:46'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i'm not sure anyone else noticed this, but Safari now runs on Win XP and Vista,
    so this issue is not limited to just Mac users.
  created: '2008-04-08 13:30:19'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "I think Erik's point related to font rasterizers (converting a vector glyph
    outline to a rasterized image of the requested glyph), not text layout (where
    features like contextual substitution are done), which are normally separate issues
    handled by different applications. \r\n\r\nIt wouldn't surprise me if the Safari
    browser (for the desktop) uses it's own rasterizer; on Windows it uses it's own
    rasterizer which produces results similar to the Mac OS. But I am not sure that
    would be true on the iPhone, where there could be advantages to sharing the system's
    rasterizer, and the architects may have seen this as a safer environment than
    the desktop (which would probably be a bad idea!)\r\n\r\nAlthough it may seem
    like it's a stretch that a font could crash a system or application, it is entirely
    possible, and I'd guess that this aspect of \"font downloading/embedding\" has
    not been sufficiently tested.\r\n\r\nJason C"
  created: '2008-04-08 13:39:16'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Re. security (off-topic I know) - Safari's lengthy legal page includes a reference
    to Freetype (ironic given the patent tussles between Apple and Freetype but that's
    another story), the Open Source rasterizer, so I imagine they're using it. Freetype
    is mentioned several times in this Linux Watch article - http://www.linux-watch.com/news/NS5622797384.html
    - about the importance of keeping components up to date. So the next time the
    Apple pop-up ad appears asking you if you want to update Safari, iTunes and ice
    water etc., you better click 'yes'.
  created: '2008-04-08 15:10:15'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "The issue raised at the head of this thread seems to be less about copyright
    protection and law than the responsibility of a company to keep its public statements
    in line with protected practice. Copyrights exist to protect an author's economic
    interest, and the basic test of infringement is whether or not the original owner
    of the copyright has suffered economic loss (actual or real potential) from the
    unauthorized use of the item for which the copyright was recorded.\r\n<em>web
    designers can go beyond web safe fonts and use any font they want\u2026</em>\r\nA
    true statement, as long as the requisite licensing fees have been paid or grants
    of use received. Like most spin meisters the Apple flacks don't detail the costs.
    How many politicians this season have detailed what costs their programs would
    entail?\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-08 15:44:32'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Uli,\r\n\r\nAs usual, you resort to insults.\r\n\r\nIt is a simple fact that
    the US Copyright Office accepts the copyright registrations of digital fonts,
    and does so following an explicit policy decision made in 1992 (quoted below in
    the court judgment excerpt).\r\n\r\nTo the best of my knowledge, you are correct
    that the US Supreme Court has not ruled on the applicability of copyright to digital
    fonts. That's because they haven't needed to, because no case has been appealed
    all the way to the US Supreme Court. Things don't need to be ruled on by the Supreme
    Court to be law in the USA.\r\n\r\nHowever, Judge Whyte's 1998 summary judgment
    in the Adobe vs SSi case in Federal District Court did rule on this issue, and
    upheld the principle that digital fonts are subject to copyright. http://directory.serifmagazine.com/Ethics_and_Law/Copyright/judgement.php4\r\n\r\nThe
    relevant section of the judgment follows:\r\n\r\n* * * * *\r\n\r\nIn a 1988 Copyright
    Office Policy Decision, the Copyright Office determined that digitized typefaces
    were not copyrightable because they were not computer programs and required little
    selection or arrangement beyond that dictated by the uncopyrightable typeface
    design. \"Policy Decision on the Copyrightability of Digitized Typefaces, \" 53
    Fed. Reg. 38 1 lo-381 13 (September 29, 1988). \r\n\r\nHowever, in 1992 the Copyright
    Office issued a final regulation regarding the registrability of \"computer programs
    that generate typefaces\" which appears to back off the 1988 policy decision,
    although the parties dispute this. The 1992 Regulation states: \r\n\r\n<cite>After
    a careful review of the testimony and the written comments, the Copyright Office
    is persuaded that creating scalable typefonts using already digitized typeface
    represents a significant change in the industry since our previous Policy Decision.
    We are also persuaded that computer programs designed for generating typeface
    in conjunction with low resolution and other printing devices may involve original
    computer instructions entitled to protection under the Copyright Act. For example,
    the creation of scalable font output programs to produce harmonious fonts consisting
    of hundreds of characters typically involves many decisions in drafting the instructions
    that drive the printer. The expression of these decisions is neither limited by
    the unprotectible shape of the letters nor functionally mandated. This expression,
    assuming it meets the usual standard of authorship, is thus registrable as a computer
    program.</cite>\r\n\r\n\"Registrability of Computer Programs that Generate Typefaces,\"
    57 Fed. Reg. 35 at pp.6201-2 (February 12, 1992)). Plaintiff contends that the
    1992 Regulation supports protection for the scalable typefonts at issue. Defendants
    contend that the 1992 Regulation reaffirms the 1988 policy decision stating that
    digitized typefaces are not protectable. \r\n\r\nDefendants base their assertion
    on the fact that the 1992 Regulation specifically states that it \"does not represent
    a substantive change in the rights of copyright claimants.\" Id. at 6202. They
    argue that the effect of the 1992 Regulation is merely to revise the procedure
    in referencing font-depicting data in the registration process. Thus, defendants
    contend that the numerical reference points that define an outline of a glyph
    are unprotectable as a matter of law. \r\n\r\nDefendants argue that after one
    has filtered out the unprotectabie elements of plaintiffs software in order to
    compare what remains, one finds that minimal, if any, protectable expression remains.
    Thus, defendants state that \"merely manipulating an unprotectable font image
    to create another, slightly different (but still unprotectable) font image cannot
    possibly give rise to protectable expression . . . .\" Defs. Memo., pp. 15-16.
    Defendants assert that no matter what points are selected by the Adobe editor
    performing the process, they correspond directly to, and hence are determined
    by, the unprotectable font shape. Therefore, because the output is not protected
    and there cannot be any creativity in what the editor does to obtain the output,
    nothing is protectable. \r\n\r\nAdobe contends that King copied literal expression.7
    Adobe contends that while the shape of the glyph necessarily dictates some of
    the points to be chosen to create the glyph, it does not determine all the points
    to be chosen. Thus, each rendering of a specific glyph requires choices by the
    editor as to what points to select and where to place those points. Accordingly,
    Adobe asserts that the selection of points and the placement of those points are
    expression which is copyrightable in an original font output program. The actual
    code is dictated by the selected points. \r\n\r\nAdobe relies on Feist Publications
    v. Rural Telephone Serv. Co., 499 U.S. 340 (1991) and argues that because the
    glyph coordinates are not prescribed entirely by the shape of the glyph they involve
    creativity and are protectable. \"To qualify for copyright protection, a work
    must be original to the author. [citation omitted]. Original, as the term is used
    in copyright, means only that the work was independently created by the author
    . . . and that it possesses at least some minimal degree of creativity.\" . Id
    at 345. Further, \"the requisite level of creativity is extremely low; even a
    slight amount will suffice. The vast majority of works make the grade quite easily,
    as they possess some creative spark, no matter how crude, humble or obvious it
    might be.\" Id. Thus, Adobe argues that because there is some creative choice
    by the editors who select the on-curve and off-curve reference points, Adobe's
    font software programs are protectable. \r\n\r\nDefendants contend that FontMonger
    and Fontographer go beyond the code and extract the coordinates and express the
    coordinates in absolute values. Thus, defendants assert that the source code is
    not being copied but only the coordinates or points which are not protectable.
    Defendants then assert that FontMonger and Fontographer create code based on the
    selection of the points which is necessarily dictated by the shape of the glyph.
    Defendants contend that because they only extracted the points, they have not
    infringed because the points themselves are not protectable. \r\n\r\nThe evidence
    presented shows that there is some creativity in designing the font software programs.
    While the glyph dictates to a certain extent what points the editor must choose,
    it does not dictate every point that must be chosen. Adobe has shown that font
    editors make creative choices as to what points to select based on the image in
    front of them on the computer screen. The code is determined directly from the
    selection of the points. Thus, any copying of the points is copying of literal
    expression, that is, in essence, copying of the computer code itself. \r\n\r\nFurther,
    the selection of points is not dictated by functional concerns only. See 57 Fed.
    Reg. 6201-2. Defendants argue that efficiency is the key which is driven by the
    goal of minimizing the number of reference points. However, simply because there
    are several ways to create the same glyph, some being more efficient than others,
    i.e. using fewer points, does not mean there is no creativity in the process of
    creating the software to produce the glyphs. That some creativity is involved
    is illustrated by the fact that two independently working programmers using the
    same data and same tools can produce an indistinguishable output but will have
    few points in common. Accordingly, the court finds that the Adobe font software
    programs are protectable original works of authorship. \r\n\r\n* * * * *\r\n\r\nAfter
    this, I think I need to revert back to my principle of not responding to Uli,
    which I let lapse after nearly a year.\r\n\r\nBye,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-04-08 17:59:08'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "I love an Apple :)\r\n\r\n--------   http://www.theapplemuseum.com\r\n\r\nJust
    get rid of the \"any\" - that will do. \r\nCould you add \"any of your fonts\"
    instead?\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2008-04-08 18:53:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Could you add \u201Cany of your fonts\u201D instead?\"\r\n\r\nPerhaps \"any
    of your licensed fonts which permits it\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-08 18:58:23'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "i'm fairly sure that posting reduced jpegs to a discussion group is protected
    as fair use, but those days may be numbered. even fair use seems to be in jeopardy.
    check this out; it sends chills :\r\n\r\nhttp://williampatry.blogspot.com/2008/04/fair-use-three-step-test-and-european.html\r\n\r\ni'm
    not arguing against your livlihood, folks, and anyway that's a different thread.\r\nbut
    as usage restrictions become more draconian and unreasonable it seems more important
    than ever to set precedents  for open sharing where possible."
  created: '2008-04-08 19:30:42'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Here are two short answers to Mr. Phinney's reply:\r\n\r\n1)\r\n\r\nMr. Phinney's
    statement <cite>\"most countries recognize digital fonts as software\"</cite>
    was a fairy tale and will remain a fairy tale, because Mr. Phinney could not prove
    that \"most countries\" recognize fonts as software.\r\n\r\n2)\r\n\r\nI predicted
    elsewhere that Mr. Phinney would again quote this old hat, the SSI \"preliminary
    judgement\" alias \"summary judgement\" (in Germany \"einstweilige Verf\xFCgung\").\r\n\r\nEveryone
    knows that \"preliminary judgements\" are \"preliminary\" and hence cannot be
    generalized, because no trial took place. Furthermore, Mr. Phinney did not disclose
    the most \"relevant section\", namely this one:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Based on the foregoing,
    the court grants Adobe's motion for summary judgment on its claim of copyright
    infringement of its <strong>Utopia</strong> software program, denies defendants'
    cross-motion on the copyright claims, <strong>denies Adohe's motion</strong> for
    summary judgment on the patent claims, denies defendants' countermotion on the
    patent claims and denies Ares' motion for summary judgment on the third-party
    complaint.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nThis means: Firstly, the preliminary judgment refers
    to the font Utopia only, to no other fonts sold by Adobe. Secondly, the preliminary
    judgment denied Adobe's motion. In my document about this preliminary judgement\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/ssi.pdf\r\n\r\nI
    stated:\r\n\r\n\"Adobe did not dare to seek a trial due to the fact that Adobe\u2019s
    motions concerning Slimbach\u2019s patent claims were denied by the district court.\"\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-08 19:57:18'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "<cite>I do not know an American Copyright Law nor do I know an American Supreme
    Court decision ruling that fonts are copyrightable.</cite>\r\n\r\nNor, apparently,
    do you know US law.  There is no need for there to be a US Supreme Court ruling
    for something to qualify as legal precedence (as a minor addition/correction to
    Thomas's statement about the US Supreme Court not needing to rule on something
    to make it law, well, no court can make anything law in the US, they only interpret
    extant law).  As well, there is no such thing as a \"preliminary judgement\" in
    American law, so I'm not sure what you mean by that but based on a quick question
    to a German friend (note I explicitly don't claim to know the German system and
    am only speculating), I think you've confused summary judgement with preliminary
    injunction, which are very different (and this confirmed by the BEOLINGUS dictionary).
    \ A summary judgement is only preliminary in that it takes place before the primary
    case, to rule on whether or not claims are triable, and my guess in German would
    be \"beschleunigtes Urteilsverfahren\".  Courts can still create precedence in
    these judgements (in the US), as evidence is presented just as they would be in
    a normal case.\r\n\r\nSSI would want the court to rule that copyrightable did
    not extend to the font software thus avoiding the entire court case.  The court
    stated that they are protectable, and thus Adobe can continue in their case against
    SSI, which would then involve proving that SSI did indeed violate the copyright.
    \ If SSI had succeeded, there would have been no need for Adobe to attempt to
    show how their software was copied, because the court would have ruled that it
    wasn't copyrightable.  This is the point of a summary judgement in US law.  Regarding
    the copyrightability and generalization of the ruling:\r\n\r\n\"The parties do
    not dispute that defendant King had access to plaintiffs programs.5 Thus, the
    primary issue in this case is whether the material at issue is protectable expression
    under the Copyright Act\"\r\n\r\n\"Thus, defendants contend that the numerical
    reference points that define an outline of a glyph are unprotectable as a matter
    of law.\"\r\n\r\n\"Accordingly, the court finds that the Adobe font software <strong>programs</strong>
    are protectable original <strong>works</strong> of authorship.\"\r\n\r\nThis is
    indeed a ruling that can be generalized.  Otherwise the court would have stated
    \"Accordingly, the court finds that Utopia is a protectable original <strong>work</strong>
    of authorship.\"  But it didn't, leaving the judgement open for reference in other
    cases.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos
    cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-04-08 21:31:20'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "Thanks ChrisL: \u201Cany of your licensed fonts which permits it\u201D will
    do just great!"
  created: '2008-04-08 21:58:05'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Uli is right about the images. We take images from other websites all the
    time. Do I profit from it? No. But it is analogous to using fonts without proper
    licensing.\r\n\r\nMikey :-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-09 02:38:40'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "guifa:\r\n\r\n<cite>A summary judgement is only preliminary in that it takes
    place before the primary case, to rule on whether or not claims are triable, and
    my guess in German would be \u201Cbeschleunigtes Urteilsverfahren\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nSuch
    terminological discussions do not make much sense, because English is not my mother
    tongue and German is not your mother tongue. The term \u201Cbeschleunigtes Urteilsverfahren\u201D
    is a criminal proceeding in Germany, and the term \"preliminary judgement\" is
    used by me and others as another expression or as a synonym for \"summary judgement\"
    in the USA.\r\n\r\nInstead of terminological discussions, you should look at the
    reality which will open your eyes so that you will recognize that the SSI \"summary
    judgement\" does not prove that the Adobe fonts are copyrightable in the USA or
    elsewhere.\r\n\r\nFor instance, Paul King has been selling the SSI fonts alias
    Adobe fonts many years after the lawsuit. And these SSI fonts alias Adobe fonts
    are even today still downloadable from numerous websites. (Miss Tiffany does not
    like links to such sites, so that you will have to browse for these sites for
    yourself.)\r\n\r\nAll this would not have been accepted by Adobe, if the Adobe
    fonts alias SSI fonts were copyrightable.\r\n\r\nWhat is more, Adobe's entire
    Font Folio collection (the unmodified fonts, not the SSI clones) is downloadable
    for free from numerous websites. This would not be accepted by Adobe, if the Adobe
    Font Folio fonts were copyrightable in the USA or elsewhere.\r\n\r\nAnd as regards
    font CDs, Adobe's entire Font Folio collection can be bought for a few cents as
    commercial ripoff CDs. I documented this at my website\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/index.html#OSTEUROPA\r\n\r\nAll
    this would not be accepted by Adobe, if the Adobe Font Folio fonts were copyrightable
    in the USA or elsewhere. The SSI \"summary judgement\" alias \"preliminary judgement\"
    is entirely useless and proves nothing."
  created: '2008-04-09 04:43:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Uli: <em>This means: Firstly, the preliminary judgment refers to the font
    Utopia only, to no other fonts sold by Adobe. Secondly, the preliminary judgment
    denied Adobe\u2019s motion.</em>\r\n\r\nUtopia was used as a test case in the
    Adobe vs. SSi lawsuit, and was accepted and understood as such by both parties.
    Of course Judge Whyte's acceptance of Adobe's motion for a summary judgement on
    the copyright of the Adobe font applies to the other fonts in the case: it was
    acceptance of the copyrightability of fonts (at which point SSi quickly agreed
    to settle out of court: they understood that the judgement applied to all the
    fonts, not just Utopia, even if you dont').\r\n\r\nWhat Judge Whyte denied was
    the motion for a summary judgement on the specific <em>patents</em> claimed by
    Adobe. So he accepted the motion regarding the general issue of font copyright,
    which he judged in favour of, but he denied the motion regarding the patents.
    Note that this does not mean that he denied the patents, but that he denied to
    motion to make a summary judgement on them: the patent issue would have to be
    decided in court. The copyright issue could be decided by summary judgement, since
    the US Copyright Office had already established in principle that fonts could
    be copyrighted as computer programs. What the judgement needed to establish was
    whether the fonts, and particularly the outlines, met the requisite legal criteria
    of creativity to be protectable by copyright. And Judge Whyte decided that <em>yes</em>,
    they did, and that summary judgement is now legal precedence. I don't know what
    the role of precedence is in German law, but in in US law, derived from English
    common law, is is extremely important.\r\n\r\nYour later argument that infringing
    fonts are still available through various sources is not evidence that fonts are
    copyrightable. Unlike trademarks, which one is obliged to defend or lose, one
    is under no obligation to defend one's copyright, and the copyright is retained
    regardless of whether the holder actively prosecutes infringement. I happen to
    know something of the material cost in time and energy that the SSi lawsuit put
    on Adobe's type group, that it delayed the development of new products and tied
    up key people for more than a year. Frankly, I'm not surprised that Adobe are
    not launching lawsuits at every infringement of their copyright. Like reasonable
    people, they pick their fights.\r\n\r\n<em>...and the term \u201Cpreliminary judgement\u201D
    is used by me and others as another expression or as a synonym for \u201Csummary
    judgement\u201D in the USA.</em>\r\n\r\nIt is not a synonym. There is nothing
    'preliminary' about a summary judgement, any more than there is about a summary
    execution."
  created: '2008-04-09 05:41:00'
- author:
    name: jdaggett
  body: "vanblokland: \r\n\r\nI think your comments are spot on.  I was playing with
    this feature yesterday and was able to crash Safari, using a font described <a
    href=\"http://cg.scs.carleton.ca/~luc/opentypecrash.html\">here</a>.  Precisely
    the problem you described and a relatively trivial example (i.e. overflowing the
    argument stack).  On the Mac, Webkit is passing the downloaded font data off to
    the ATS system service which does the rasterization:\r\n\r\nhttp://trac.webkit.org/projects/webkit/browser/trunk/WebCore/platform/graphics/mac/FontCustomPlatformData.cpp#L41\r\n\r\nSo
    bugs in ATS can be exploited using Safari.  It's quite possible that this code
    could be tightened up and made more secure but I think some thought needs to be
    put in to making sure it gets there and not just assuming that it is secure.  With
    Firefox, we have the same concern, relying on underlying platform API's needs
    to be done carefully.\r\n\r\nKeep in mind that I think the same thing is probably
    possible with downloaded PDF files containing embedded fonts.  Using Freetype
    or another rasterizer is possible but definitely not an easy task, especially
    when you want the code to be efficient.\r\n\r\nJohn Hudson:\r\n\r\nOne thing I've
    never quite understood is to what exactly the Adobe vs. SSi case really applies
    to.  The hints?  The outlines themselves?  Without hints is a font really a \"program\"?!?\r\n\r\nPut
    another way, if someone takes a TrueType font and copies the outlines to make
    a SVG font (no hints) are they in copyright violation?  Would the same user be
    in violation if they used the outline within a vector graphic of some sort and
    distributed that (i.e. something that still contains the outline)?\r\n\r\nI don't
    think these are just theoretical issues but real issues that web designers need
    to be able to understand.  \"No embedding\" flags, originally intended for use
    with Word documents, don't really explain much in this context."
  created: '2008-04-09 06:13:10'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: 'Question: Do fonts embedded in PDFs use a system renderer?... like ATS?'
  created: '2008-04-09 08:26:09'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "In my opinion, outlines alone could not be regarded as computer programs.
    But my opinion does not count. If I remember correctly from having read earlier,
    either by (imho false) court judging or  by copyright office regulation, font
    files per se (so even without hints) are considered font \"sofware\".\r\n\r\nActually,
    Uli is wrong in a lot of respects (because even if we disapprove of certain laws,
    they are laws), and while I disapprove of fonts being protected as \"software\",
    I do think they need to be protected in some way (as \"work of art\" e.g.).\r\nHis
    argument in one of his writings is telling however: If you draw an outline and
    save the font, the stipulated \"software code\" is generated automatically. Your
    work was not authoring software code, but of designing (as an artist) outlines."
  created: '2008-04-09 08:56:11'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "aszszelp:\r\n\r\n<cite>His argument in one of his writings is telling however:
    If you draw an outline and save the font, the stipulated \u201Csoftware code\u201D
    is generated automatically.</cite>\r\n\r\nI avoid the word \"software\" as a legal
    term, because it does not occur in German copyright law. Even the US copyright
    law does not use the word \"software\" (but the word \"software\" occurs in the
    American \"software rental amendment act\").\r\n\r\nCould you please specify where
    I used the legal term \"software\"?"
  created: '2008-04-09 10:32:04'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "LOL!\r\nUli, is your essence of existence to argue?\r\nYou are questioning
    someone (who is &ndash; partially and with truly strong limitations &ndash; backing
    you) in the point that supports your case?\r\nThat's hilarious!\r\n:D"
  created: '2008-04-09 12:59:12'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" We take images from other websites all the time. Do I profit from it?
    No. But it is analogous to using fonts without proper licensing.\"\r\n\r\nIt is?
    It is not universally the case that it is unlawful to use images, and a whole
    body of law concerning 'fair use' tells that tale. Fonts, unless one is using
    the software in some journalistic pursuit of typographic commentary, have no fair
    use outside of license. SSI, was a troll under the bridge between proprietary
    and common font formats. They have no more foot stomping or hand biting to offer
    the world.\r\n\r\n\"Could you please specify where I used the legal term \u201Csoftware\u201D?\"\r\n\r\nNo.
    The continued circular opinions/arguments represent you as a waste of time with
    a mouth, but little or no ear function. When one does not understand the law even
    if one reads it, one does not understand typography even when one sees it, and
    ones grasp of type technology is second only to many billions of others, I think
    it is fair to say one should sit down, silence themselves and listen. Perhaps
    that applies to you.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-04-09 13:28:21'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "I know Uli was being rhetorical, but he seems to have a typically incomplete
    knowledge of copyright law. He needs to look up concepts like fair use (U.S.)
    and fair dealing (Canada, U.K., some other countries). In short, you can post
    screenshots with attribution in many contexts without infringement. The same goes
    for photographs and other copyrighted works.\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t see how fair
    use or fair dealing would cover embedding fonts in Web pages even if they were
    copyrightable (or even considering that font <em>files</em> actually <em>are</em>
    copyrightable). Hence, Uli\u2019s point is rather off topic. But the objection
    \u201CThe Web is all about replication of copyrighted works, so why should fonts
    be any different?\u201D is one that merits discussion.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe
    Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2008-04-09 17:17:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\r\nI think (c) is off-topic as is the security issue (although I can't understand
    how Apple would not have fixed an exploit that Adobe patched 5 years ago). I'd
    suggest a separate thread, but haven't we been around that bush many times in
    the past.\r\n\r\nThe reason I started the thread was that I found Apple's positioning
    of the technology problematic and somewhat misleading, especially given the sensitivity
    and controversy swirling around the subject.     \r\n\r\nAnyway James Arboghast
    sent me the following notes off-list (too busy to contribute himself) suggested
    I post them here... \r\n\r\n> CSS font embedding is mainly a distribution issue
    and a commercial \r\n> rights issue. Here's why:\r\n>\r\n> * In principle, copyright
    is concerned with both intellectual property \r\n> rights (art and design) and
    distribution rights (commercial vending). \r\n> In practice, when copyright \"law\"
    and litigation are applied to \r\n> unauthorized distribution of fonts, the principal
    of law is applied, not the letter.\r\n>\r\n> * Irrespective of state-defined copyright
    legislation in a given \r\n> country, and whether or not digital type outlines
    and fonts are \r\n> \"copyrightable\", font makers and vendors are automatically
    granted \r\n> commercial rights---specifically the right to profit from their
    \r\n> invention, design, and sale of their commercial font product(s)---like \r\n>
    all other producers of artwork, design or software products.\r\n>\r\n> * The commercial
    rights of font makers, including the right to profit \r\n> from their invention,
    design and sale of retail font products, are \r\n> upheld on a case-by-case basis,
    usually in the \"court of professional opinion\".\r\n>\r\n> * Unauthorized distribution
    of commercial font products is typically \r\n> prohibited by individual font product
    EULAs, which are \"legally binding\"\r\n> contracts between the font maker or
    vendor/distributor, and all users.\r\n> EULA contracts are enforcable by private
    litigation, independently of \r\n> state-defined copyright legislation. EULA and
    commercial rights of \r\n> font makers <strong>are</strong> enforcable, and have
    been enforced, \r\n> by private litigation.\r\n>\r\n> * Retail OpenType fonts
    are commercial software by definition, as they \r\n> contain OpenType feature
    programs. They are also commercial products, \r\n> irrespective of whether or
    not they are software programs or \r\n> \"copyrightable\". All commercial products
    are protected from \r\n> unauthorized distribution by commercial law in the U.S.
    and Germany, \r\n> Australia, Great Britain, France, Poland, New Zealand, Japan,
    Norway, \r\n> most western countries.\r\n>\r\n> * Retail TrueType and Type1 fonts,
    whether they are definable as \r\n> \"software\"/\"programs\" and \"copyrightable\"
    or not, are nonetheless \r\n> commercial products issued with EULAs and protected
    from unauthorized \r\n> distribution by commercial law in the U.S. and Germany,
    Australia, \r\n> Great Britain, France, Poland, New Zealand, most western countries.\r\n>\r\n>
    * Copyright legislation in individual countries has nothing to do with \r\n> the
    price of fish in China Also try: \"the funny fish forging industry\" \r\n> ;-)\r\n>\r\n>
    * CSS font embedding is mainly a distribution issue affecting the \r\n> commercial
    rights of font makers and vendors/distributors.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-09 18:01:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "jdaggett: <em>One thing I\u2019ve never quite understood is to what exactly
    the Adobe vs. SSi case really applies to. The hints? The outlines themselves?
    Without hints is a font really a \u201Cprogram\u201D?!?</em>\r\n\r\nRead the text
    of Judge Whyte's summary judgement on the copyright question, which Thomas posted
    above. It is very clear. It is important to bear in mind that what US copyright
    law considers a computer program and what it considers a sufficient degree of
    creativity to qualify for copyright protection are not what you or I might consider
    them. The USCO defines a computer program as 'a set of statements or instructions
    to be used directly or indirectly in a computer in order to bring about a certain
    result'. That is a very generous definition, especially if one pays attention
    to the allowance for both direct and indirect use. I don't doubt that some people
    might want to argue with that definition, or propose alternative definitions,
    but for the sake of US copyright law that is the definition that counts.\r\n\r\nThe
    other thing that is important to bear in mind is that, as Judge Whyte noted in
    his judgement, citing precedence, 'the requisite level of creativity is extremely
    low; even a slight amount will suffice'. That is to say, it is not necessary for
    a work to exhibit a huge amount of creativity -- what I'm tempted to call a 'romantic
    amount', since many popular notions of creativity are strongly influenced by romanticism
    --; the mere presence of creativity, in even a slight amount, is deemed worthy
    of protection.\r\n\r\nBearing those two things in mind, this is the key passage
    of Judge Whyte's judgement (by emphasis:\r\n\r\n<em>'The evidence presented shows
    that there is some creativity in designing the font software programs. While the
    glyph dictates to a certain extent what points the editor must choose, it does
    not dictate every point that must be chosen. Adobe has shown that font editors
    make creative choices as to what points to select based on the image in front
    of them on the computer screen. <strong>The code is determined directly from the
    selection of the points. Thus, any copying of the points is copying of literal
    expression, that is, in essence, copying of the computer code itself.'</strong></em>"
  created: '2008-04-09 18:12:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"The code is determined directly from the selection of the points. Thus,
    any copying of the points is copying of literal expression, that is, in essence,
    copying of the computer code itself.\u2019\"\r\n\r\nAs the saying goes, A hah!
    Now I understand what they meant. Granted, I think this vastly understates what
    is involved, both technically and creatively, in designing a typeface but I at
    least see what lawyers have hung their hats on as a point of legality--or the
    basis for their litmus test. Whatever we typography lovers and type designers
    really think or express as what is involved--or what could be stolen is most likely
    too complicated to prove or disprove and would involve varied opinions of type
    geeks instead of absolute sightings by judges and lawyers.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-09 18:29:54'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<strong>Is Chief Justice John G. Roberts a computer programmer?</strong>\r\n\r\nLet's
    assume, John G. Roberts, Jr., Chief Justice of the United States,\r\n\r\nshown
    here: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_G._Roberts\r\n\r\nis sitting in front
    of his computer, and after starting Coreldraw, as a first step, he draws with
    his mouse two egg-like concentrical circles as an \"O\" letter, such as shown
    here:\r\n\r\nsee http://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/computerprogramm.pdf, page
    3\r\n(screen shot of step 1)\r\n\r\nThen, as a second step, John G. Roberts, Chief
    Justice of the United States, saves this \"O\" letter as a CDR Coreldraw file,
    such as shown here:\r\n\r\nsee http://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/computerprogramm.pdf,
    page 4\r\n(screen shot of step 2, top)\r\n\r\n<strong>Question 1:</strong> Is
    John G. Roberts, Chief Justice of the United States, a \"computer programmer\",
    who has just written a CDR \"computer programme\" called \"O\"-letter?\r\n\r\nYour
    answer to question 1: Yes or No and Why?\r\n\r\nThen, as a third step, John G.
    Roberts, Chief Justice of the United States, saves this \"O\" letter as a TTF
    TrueType file, such as shown here:\r\n\r\nsee http://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/computerprogramm.pdf,
    page 4\r\n(screen shot of step 3, bottom)\r\n\r\n<strong>Question 2:</strong>
    Is John G. Roberts, Chief Justice of the United States, a \"computer programmer\",
    who has just written a TTF \"computer programme\" called \"O\"-letter?\r\n\r\nYour
    answer to question 2: Yes or No and Why?\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-09 19:26:33'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Is Chief Justice John G. Roberts a computer programmer?</cite>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/troll_3821.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    apologize, but I think it needs to be said\u2026"
  created: '2008-04-09 19:29:05'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Is John G. Roberts, Chief Justice of the United States, a \u201Ccomputer
    programmer\u201D\"\r\n\r\nWhat does being a programmer have to do with anything?\r\n\r\nI
    thought we're talking about the definition of software. \r\n\r\nIf you're asking
    is \"did John G. Roberts, Chief Justice of the United States, by saving that file,
    create a unique piece of computer code (ie, software) that describes a particular
    visual design that he created\" then the answer is \"yes\".\r\n\r\nBut, again,
    IANAL and all that really matters is what the lawyers and judges think in a particular
    case. ;o)"
  created: '2008-04-09 21:55:39'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: I'm going to point out that Apple says you CAN use any font, not that you
    MAY use any font. It's trivial semantics, but potentially essential to any legal
    argument.
  created: '2008-04-09 22:34:40'
- author:
    name: jdaggett
  body: "John Hudson: <em>The code is determined directly from the selection of the
    points. Thus, any copying of the points is copying of literal expression, that
    is, in essence, copying of the computer code itself.</em>\r\n\r\nSo from this
    description that would imply that someone who uses a glyph outline in a vector
    drawing program and distributes that outline contained within a vector file format
    like SVG is actually violating the copyright of the font in the U.S, since that
    file contains a copy of the protected outline.  \r\n\r\nAnd why wouldn't the same
    apply to the copy of FB Moderno contained in Headline.swf used to display the
    content title on this page, a font I have not licensed?"
  created: '2008-04-10 06:09:12'
- author:
    name: jdaggett
  body: "Not to pick on FB Moderno too much but it looks like the <a href=\"http://www.fontbureau.com/help/singleuserlicense\">Single
    User License Agreement</a> of the Font Bureau disallows embedding altogether:\r\n\r\n<em>4.
    EMBEDDING RESTRICTED\r\n(a) Except as may be specifically permitted herein, all
    embedding and transmission of the Font Software is prohibited.\r\n\r\n(c) Licensee
    is not permitted to distribute documents using or containing embedded copies of
    the Font Software on the Internet or for other forms of distribution or downloading
    to unauthorized users.\r\n</em>\r\n\r\nSo unless a user gets a special license
    from the Font Bureau, use of FB Moderno in webpage titles like the one at the
    top of this page is not allowed."
  created: '2008-04-10 08:32:34'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "aluminum:\r\n\r\n<cite>What does being a <strong>programmer</strong> have
    to do with anything?\r\nI thought we\u2019re talking about the definition of <strong>software</strong>.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's
    a good joke.\r\n\r\nWhat you call \"software\" is called \"computer programme\"
    in copyright laws.\r\n\r\n\"Computer programmes\" (in your non-copyright-law parlance
    \"software\") are \"literary works\" written by authors. There are copyright laws
    which explicitely define that \"computer programmes\" are \"literary works\",
    e.g. the United Kingdom Copyright Act:\r\n\r\nsee http://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/UK-Copyright-Act.jpg\r\n\r\nThe
    author of the \"literary work\" of a \"computer programme\" is called the \"computer
    programmer\".\r\n\r\nCopyright protection only subsists in original works of authorship,
    e.g. in \"computer programmes\" as \"literary works\", written by \"authors\",
    e.g. here the \"computer programmers\".\r\n\r\nFor definition of \"authorship\"
    etc. see e.g. the American Copyright Law:\r\n\r\nsee http://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/USA-Copyright-LAW.jpg\r\n\r\nI
    hope this answers your question:\r\n\r\n<cite>What does being a <strong>programmer</strong>
    have to do with anything?</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd I hope that you now understand that
    \"talking about the definition of <strong>software</strong>\" means \"talking
    about the definition of <strong>computer programme</strong>\"\r\n\r\nMr. Hudson
    stated above in this thread:\r\n\r\n<cite>The USCO defines a computer program
    as \u2019a set of statements or instructions to be used directly or indirectly
    in a computer in order to bring about a certain result\u2019.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    is not only the definition used by the USCO (US Copyright Office), but much more
    important, it is the definition in the US Copyright Law itself:\r\n\r\nsee http://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/USA-Definition.jpg\r\n\r\n<cite>If
    you\u2019re asking is \u201Cdid John G. Roberts, Chief Justice of the United States,
    by saving that file, create a unique piece of computer code (ie, software) that
    describes a particular visual design that he created\u201D then the answer is
    \u201Cyes\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe answer is \"no\":\r\n\r\nFirstly, a person
    who is not a computer programmer and who has not learnt computer programming languages
    and who is therefore not able to write computer programmes cannot be the writer
    of a computer programme.\r\n\r\nSecondly, a person who draws circles with the
    mouse in a vector drawing programme (e.g. Coreldraw) makes circle drawings, but
    he does not write computer programmes.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-10 09:04:14'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABFirstly, a person who is not a computer programmer and who has
    not learnt computer programming languages and who is therefore not able to write
    computer programmes cannot be the writer of a computer programme.\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    completely contradicts what you yourself said earlier in the same post.\r\n\r\nIf
    I use a WYSIWYG programming tool to create a simple program [please note that
    there is no such thing as a \u201Ccomputer programme\u201D], then I am the creator
    of that program, despite the fact that I don\u2019t know C++ or any other programming
    language well enough to actually write the code itself. If I create an entire
    font in FontLab and save it as a TrueType Font, then that is considered software
    and I am considered its creator, despite the fact that I did not actually code
    the file myself.\r\n\r\nComputer programmer is (at least here) a protected title
    that requires at least a bachelor\u2019s degree in computer programming, so obviously,
    the answer to your question is neither yes nor no, but rather, \u201CYes, if he
    has a degree in computer programming as well as being a judge\u201D, which is
    of course completely irrelevant to the discussion."
  created: '2008-04-10 11:07:54'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Ois\xEDn:\r\n\r\n> there is no such thing as a \u201Ccomputer programme\u201D\r\n\r\nIf
    you don't accept the reality\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/UK-Copyright-Act.jpg\r\n\r\nthen
    this is not my problem.\r\n\r\nAs regards the copyrightability of computer programmes
    which are not written by computer programmers, but which are generated automatically
    by computers themselves, see here\r\n\r\nhttp://www.law.duke.edu/journals/dltr/articles/2001dltr0024.html\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-10 11:32:30'
- author:
    name: acnapyx
    picture: 113394
  body: "Generally said, this discussion got way too out of merit; Apple are just
    trying to market their cr*ppy (<em>no offense, I am a Windows user, and under
    Win Safari simply sucks!</em>) browser, boasting about its features. Possibly
    they should have used <em>'you ARE ABLE'</em> in the place of <em>'you CAN'</em>,
    but the sense is not that different. There are no technical limitiations on such
    embedding in their implementation of the current CSS standard for web-fonts embedding,
    you have to admit it. Only the legal ones.\r\n\r\nAnd, honestly, most laymen do
    not care about EULAs and never read it. The corporations do, though :)"
  created: '2008-04-10 12:09:15'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "@acnapyx \r\nWhat do you mean with Safari (Win) sucks? I've recently downloaded
    Vers. 3.1 and it seems to work properly (loading times, css-rendering compared
    to firefox) under Win XP Prof. Is there a security problem? Okay, i don't like
    the blurish macintosh type rendering, i prefer cleartype."
  created: '2008-04-10 12:51:24'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABif you don\u2019t accept the reality\r\n\r\n<em>http://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/UK-Copyright-Act.jpg\r\n\r\nthen
    this is not my problem.\xBB</em></cite>\r\n\r\nYou misunderstand. There is no
    such thing as a computer program<em>me</em>. When referring to computer programs,
    the word \u2018program\u2019 never has an -me at the end."
  created: '2008-04-10 13:24:30'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: I also d/l-ed Safari for Win but dumped it very soon.
  created: '2008-04-10 13:45:33'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Ois\xEDn:\r\n\r\n> You misunderstand. There is no such thing as a computer
    programme. When referring to computer programs, the word \u2018program\u2019 <strong>never</strong>
    has an -me at the end.\r\n\r\nGoogle has 13,000 hits for websites in Great Britain,
    where this spelling still occurs:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/programme.jpg\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-10 13:57:00'
- author:
    name: acnapyx
    picture: 113394
  body: "> what do you mean with Safari (Win) sucks?\r\n\r\nWell, here are my impressions,
    even if this is slightly offtopic here:\r\n- loading times (browser): ages.\r\n-
    loading times (pages): \r\nwithout flash - slower than IE6, IE7 and Firefox.\r\nwith
    flash - faster than Firefox and IE7, but slower than IE6.\r\n- options and settings:
    too limited for my liking.\r\n- CSS rendering: well, almost perfect, I admit it.\r\n-
    type rendering: blurry (on CRT I do not use any smoothing, if possible).\r\n-
    cache: IE, Firefox and Opera allow browsing the cache. Why Safari should not?\r\n-
    plugins (Firefox-style)? Bwahahahaha.\r\nand many, many more. \r\n\r\nRegarding
    the support of web-fonts, right now there are no alternative browsers to compare
    with, so... still waiting for next version of Opera, which supposedly will support
    it. \r\n\r\nWould I use Safari for everyday browsing? God, no! Would I remove/replace
    my default browser for Safari? At least, not now. I'm keeping it only for web
    design compatibility checks. \r\n\r\nMaybe under Mac the things are different,
    but I seriously doubt it. This is a design issue, not a platform one. Apple simply
    do not provide enough advanced options for customizing the browser design/behaviour.
    Remember the discussion if there is an option to disable the web-fonts? Of course,
    Apple are new on this market, but Safari on my WinXP desktop still looks like
    an oversized iPhone :D"
  created: '2008-04-10 13:59:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think this thread has struck the Law of Diminishing Returns and has been
    sent off on the path to entropy.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-10 15:05:08'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Secondly, a person who draws circles with the mouse in a vector drawing
    programme (e.g. Coreldraw) makes circle drawings, but he does not write computer
    programmes.\"\r\n\r\nThat's like saying a painter doesn't make paintings...his
    paintbrush does.\r\n\r\n\"http://www.law.duke.edu/journals/dltr/articles/2001dltr0024.html\"\r\n\r\nThat
    read seems specific to Fractals. A minute subsection of the complete works of
    computer programs. It's also an opinion piece that simply described the various
    potential approaches.\r\n\r\nBut the argument seems to be 'does the creator of
    the work own the copyright, or does the creator of the software that the creator
    of the work used to create their own software own the copyright?'\r\n\r\nTo go
    back to the painter, that wouldn't that be like arguing: does the artist owns
    the copyright to the painting or does the manufacturer of the paintbrush and paints
    own the copyright?\r\n\r\n\"Apple simply do not provide enough advanced options
    for customizing the browser design/behaviour. \"\r\n\r\nNope. Apple doesn't emphasize
    user customization in most of their UI design philosophies. Subjectively, of course,
    that makes it a bad design for folks that prefer that.\r\n\r\nHonestly, I've found
    nearly all browser suck in Windows. Safari is OK. Firefox is OK, but has constant
    memory leaks and weird behavior. IE7 has an incredibly obtuse UI but doesn't suck
    nearly as much as IE6. I actually rediscovered Opera as of late and kind of like
    that.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-10 15:43:40'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: I like FF exactly because of its customizability. However its memory leakage
    is such a PITA. Hope v3 will be better in that respect.
  created: '2008-04-10 15:51:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I think this thread has struck the Law of Diminishing Returns and has been
    sent off on the path to entropy.\r\n\r\nTrue, and Apple's Safari page remains
    unchanged. Not heard from many type designers, so maybe this positioning isn't
    considered a big deal? However, if foundries do feel the text is misleading and
    want to be put in contact with the right people at Apple then please feel free
    to contact me off-list and I'll put you in touch so you can let them know your
    feelings on both the positioning and the technology itself. "
  created: '2008-04-10 16:03:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...I\u2019ll put you in touch so you can let them know your feelings on
    both the positioning and the technology itself.\"\r\n\r\nThanks, Si. Consider
    me among the group.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-10 16:08:25'
- author:
    name: acnapyx
    picture: 113394
  body: "My last word on this (well, in fact a quote from the very good feature about
    the <strong>[[http://blog.sessions.edu/design/the-suicide-of-design/|value of
    typefaces]]</strong>):\r\n\r\n<em>A free society is dependent on voluntary compliance
    with the law. If we ever get to the point that we must rely on enforcement for
    compliance, the game is lost.</em>"
  created: '2008-04-10 16:47:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"A free society is dependent on voluntary compliance with the law.\"\r\n\r\nThat
    assumes the society both knows the law and has not been confused by posted statements
    from what they perceive to be reliable sources.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-10 18:39:15'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: '@jdaggett: FB Moderne used in this way here on Typophile is being used with
    permission from Font Bureau. No license broken if permission is given.'
  created: '2008-04-10 18:44:01'
- author:
    name: jdaggett
  body: "@Miss Tiffany: Good.  But I'm guessing that a lot of web designers don't
    realize that the use here is a special exception and not generally allowed.  In
    general, it seems like fonts embedded in Flash files have the same problems as
    downloadable fonts in Safari, namely that the actual details of the EULA effectively
    disallows their use in this way without special permission.\r\n\r\nA more subtle
    point is that it seems like the FB Moderne EULA also effectively disallows the
    use of glyph outlines contained in a vector formatted image that is publically
    available, since \"font software\" seems to cover the set of points that determine
    glyph outlines."
  created: '2008-04-10 23:36:54'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "There's a broader problem in that font makers have historically turned a
    blind eye to possible EULA infractions with respect to Flash and other similar
    technologies because they don't understand them, or feel they are innocuous (don't
    think they result in much extraction and unlicensed reuse) or don\u2019t want
    bad PR amongst key customers, etc., etc., Now that there\u2019s a far more serious
    threat looming they can\u2019t afford to turn a blind eye and simply hope that
    their loose fonts don\u2019t end up in the wrong hands. I don't see a double standard
    here - pick your battles, as they say."
  created: '2008-04-11 00:00:05'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "You are correct that most foundries' EULAs do not allow embedding on the
    web in any form. Font Bureau's EULA, specifically, does not allow embedding of
    any kind without an extended license. \r\n\r\nIn this instance I would hope most
    people would understand that Font Bureau is featured in this way because they
    have chosen to be.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/moderno_4479.jpg]"
  created: '2008-04-11 00:05:03'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I think font vendors' EULAs should be absolutely explicit about what they
    allow in terms of Flash SWF embedding, raw fonts on Web servers, EOT usage, etc.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-04-11 04:49:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Not heard from many type designers</em>\r\n\r\nProbably because most
    of us realize that what we have to say won't make a blind bit of difference.\r\n\r\n<em>I
    think font vendors\u2019 EULAs should be absolutely explicit about what they allow
    in terms of Flash SWF embedding, raw fonts on Web servers, EOT usage, etc.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    would like to do that, but have a hard time figuring out what's in my best interests.
    Generally, I wait to see what organizations with the resources to address such
    issues comes up with, and take my lead from them.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-11 05:44:22'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I would like to do that, but have a hard time figuring out what\u2019s in
    my best interests.\r\n\r\nThis was the focus of my talk at the Business of Type
    event - a framework for how type designers can learn about these different technologies,
    and make informed decisions around how they license their IP for use with them. "
  created: '2008-04-11 05:59:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "A good initiative Si, but the event was too far away for me to attend.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-11 06:10:03'
- author:
    name: jdaggett
  body: "<em>I think font vendors\u2019 EULAs should be absolutely explicit about
    what they allow in terms of Flash SWF embedding, raw fonts on Web servers, EOT
    usage, etc.</em>\r\n\r\nFrankly, some of the contents of font EULA agreements
    seem byzantine beyond belief.  \r\n\r\nAs an experiment, I poked around in Font
    Book and picked \"Century Schoolbook\".  Not a normal Mac OS X system font, probably
    installed with MS Office.  The font information shows Monotype as the foundry
    along with a license URL.  Hmmm, page not found, okay, dig through the Monotype
    fonts.com site to find their <a href=\"http://www.fonts.com/Legal/MI-EULA.htm\">single-user
    EULA agreement</a>, which I'm assuming is what applies to me.  Section 12 basically
    disallows use of a font in anything other than a non-editable static graphic and
    only for \"personal or internal business use\" and not \"commercial\" use.  Definitions
    for these terms are given but it's not quite clear where \"for use in a website
    graphic\" falls.  It also appears to disallow anyone from sending anything containing
    a glyph outline, such as a path within an Illustrator file or a vector graphic
    formatted image like SVG, to a user without a license.  \r\n\r\nBut wait, dumping
    out the OS/2 table for the font shows that fsType embedding bits are set to \"editable
    embedding\", so maybe it really is okay to use in a website graphic?  And maybe
    this could be used with Safari as long as the font is not cached?\r\n\r\nSeems
    like font users who in good faith try to determine \"can I use this font for this
    purpose?\" need something that's a little simpler and more straightforward.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-11 08:14:23'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Fonts should come in two forms: \r\n\r\n * lead = no embedding electronically
    \r\n * electronic = embed as you see fit/need. \r\n\r\n;o)"
  created: '2008-04-11 14:25:52'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Not a normal Mac OS X system font, probably installed with MS Office. \r\n\r\nThis
    font would be covered by the Office EULA not a Monotype stand alone license. <strong>Document</strong>
    embedding (as defined in the OpenType spec) is permitted, and explicitly so in
    the most recent version of the Office EULA...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Capture2_6445.JPG]"
  created: '2008-04-11 15:24:54'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: :D
  created: '2008-04-11 15:31:34'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: :D ?
  created: '2008-04-11 15:54:06'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: Was a reply to aluminum.
  created: '2008-04-11 16:07:22'
- author:
    name: jdaggett
  body: "<em>This font would be covered by the Office EULA not a Monotype stand alone
    license.</em>\r\n\r\nHow would a font user know that?  I don't think Office ever
    announced that it was installing those fonts as part of the install process and
    the data within the font itself indicates something else (i.e. that the license
    is covered by the Monotype EULA)!  \r\n\r\nI'm sure you're right about this but
    my guess is that other applications also install fonts without explicitly altering
    the license notice within the name table strings.  Makes it difficult to track
    down the EULA that actually applies.  Same probably goes for all the lovely fonts
    that ship with Mac OS X, are they covered by the Apple EULA when the font data
    indicates something else?  Hard to figure out from a font user's perspective.\r\n\r\n<em><strong>Document</strong>
    embedding (as defined in the OpenType spec) is permitted\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nHmmm,
    are you distinguishing document embedding from a webpage's use of downloadable
    fonts?  I know others have argued that this is really font <strong>linking</strong>
    rather than embedding, but I thought Microsoft claimed that the meaning of those
    embedding flags extended to the use of <a href=\"http://www.w3.org/Submission/2008/SUBM-EOT-20080305/#EmbeddingLevel\">downloadable
    fonts in EOT form</a>."
  created: '2008-04-11 17:50:10'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "from :\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fonts.info/info/press/free-fonts-for-font-face-embedding.htm\r\n\r\nSafari
    3.1 for Windows and Mac supports the embedding of \u201Csfnt fonts\u201D (TrueType,
    OpenType PS, OpenType TT) using the font-face declaration. Technically the fonts
    are not embedded in the website, but they are simply linked like an image file.
    Thus the fonts need to be stored on a public server. Since you cannot upload commercial
    fonts to a public webserver, you are limited to freeware fonts. FDI fonts.info
    believes in the future of web fonts, so we decided to provide webdesigners with
    a set of high-quality web fonts supporting a wide range of character encodings.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-11 17:56:31'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Hmmm, are you distinguishing document embedding from a webpage\u2019s use
    of downloadable fonts? I know others have argued that this is really font linking
    rather than embedding, but I thought Microsoft claimed that the meaning of those
    embedding flags extended to the use of downloadable fonts in EOT form.\r\n\r\nYes,
    my reading of the OT spec is that the embedding permissions relate to fonts being
    embedded <strong>within</strong> document files. With EOT the font is not within
    the file but is tied to it via the URL-binding system. MS consulted with the industry
    at the time. However, over the years many vendors have put additional restrictions
    in their EULAs, around commercial embedding (eBooks), and technologies they don't
    like, such as PDF, or more commonly EOT.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-11 18:26:43'
- author:
    name: jdaggett
  body: '@Ch: Wow!  Nice <a href="http://www.fonts.info/info/press/font-face-embedding-demo.htm">demo
    page</a> too!  Shows the Safari-specific CSS styles (fill, stroke, transitions,
    etc.), good stuff.'
  created: '2008-04-11 20:20:10'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Happy ending - my opposite number at Apple reports that the Safari promotional
    pages have been updated...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.apple.com/safari/\r\n\r\nhttp://images.apple.com/safari/docs/Safari_Product_Overview20080602.pdf\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-11 01:12:10'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Well done Si!
  created: '2008-06-11 03:10:35'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "It might have been related to our ongoing harassment of the good folks at
    Apple over the past two months.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-06-11 04:22:36'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Well done Si!\r\n\r\n>It might have been related to our ongoing harassment
    of the good folks at Apple over the past two months.\r\n\r\nYep, I'm sure that
    various people have been nagging them - and it just took a while for the bureaucratic
    cogs to turn. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-11 04:27:48'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Excellent. Thanks for the news Sii.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-06-11 07:18:19'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Actually, I found something concerning the implementation of @font-face in
    Safari which <em>might</em> be considered a bug. However, I have not found any
    page on the apple homepage to report Safari bugs. Any idea where and how to report?\r\n\r\nSzabolcs"
  created: '2008-06-11 08:07:47'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "You should be able to find contact info for Dave Hyatt online - he's the
    Apple engineer responsible for Safari\u2019s support for raw font downloads. "
  created: '2008-06-11 14:30:05'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Thanks, Si!\r\n\r\n(I'll just have to find the time to put my observations
    together)\r\n\r\n\r\nSzabolcs"
  created: '2008-06-11 15:33:49'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "http://bugreport.apple.com is the preferred route especially if you have
    more technical details, but you can also go View->Customize Toolbar and activate
    the Report Bug button or (at least on a Mac), you can go to Safari->Report Bugs
    to Apple.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos
    cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-06-11 19:52:31'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Thanks, Matthew, I just could not find that site! (I noticed the bug report
    form built into Safari, but it was way to generic. Also, it was so impersonal,
    you could never know whether the mails incoming to the mailbox from that form
    are not redirected directly to /dev/null ;-) )\r\n\r\nYou know, that's something
    I really disapprove of with Apple. Absolute intransparency. Also: even bugreport.apple.com
    is a) well hidden b) you need a registration (oh, the first option they offer
    you is 3000+ USD/year... of course, if you scroll down, you'll find the 99USDp.a.
    for students, and at the very bottom, as if they did not want you to notice, the
    free \"OnLine Membership\").\r\n\r\nThe stipulated aim of making everything as
    easy for the user as possible, \"you don't have to care about technical details\"
    is good. It should be the primary task of good USER (oriented) interface design.
    However, it should not completely put the user under tutelage, if he _wants_ to
    care for technical details.\r\n\r\nAt least in the current situation it gave me
    the feeling, that bug reports are actually _not_welcome_. Or why else would you
    make it so hard to post improvement suggestions?\r\n\r\nLet me have been mistaken.
    Let me find out, I was wrong!\r\n\r\n\r\nSzabolcs\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-12 08:44:25'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "The bugreport system is open to members of Apple Developer Connection, and
    they do make it clear that it's free (I don't think I've had any indication to
    the contrary), it's designed for developers more than for end-users, because end
    users tend to not be able to describe in the clarity and detail that is necessary
    generally to diagnose problems.\r\n\r\nThey want registration for more serious
    natures so they can follow up.  If they have a problem or a question they want
    a way to contact you and it integrates within their main bugtracking system for
    all software.  I'm sure also WebKit has one as well.  While I still have some
    bugs that have been left inattentive for 3 years, others have been rapidly fixed,
    and not necessarily in the order I would have thought (eg, easy things are unfixed,
    hard things get fixed).  Partly it depends on how many people submit the same
    complaint.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos
    cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-06-12 14:35:17'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "back to the original topic:\r\n\r\nApple says you can use any font (obviously
    according to it's licence) but I think they refer to any type of font.\r\n\r\nI
    mean, if it only supported TTF fonts what good would that be.  Still according
    to licences, but you still wouldn't be able to use *any* font in that case, only
    a fraction of them.\r\n\r\n\r\nAlso like a photocopier, some photocopiers can
    only photocopy a small area, so a big one that says, \"This photocopier can photocopy
    ANYTHING\" doesn't mean \"You are encouraged and legally entitled to duplicate
    material you may not otherwise have licence to distrubute as long as you use this
    machine!\"\r\n\r\n\r\nGive apple a break, they could easily have made their own
    custom font format for safari fonts only, but they didn't\u2026"
  created: '2008-06-12 16:37:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I think you're reading too much into this. \r\n\r\nApple marketing used wording
    that some people in the font community objected to. They made the Apple font people
    aware of the issue. Apple changed the wording. End of story. "
  created: '2008-06-12 16:45:14'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Good to know.\r\n\r\nAs I have described above, this was the impression I
    got \"from the outside\".\r\nSo, according to you, it's worth getting into it.
    And I will, when I find the time (I like to do stuff either completely or not
    at all: no half jobs. This goes for bug reporting (being as specific, as possible,
    describing the problem with technical details, etc.).\r\n\r\nSzabolcs"
  created: '2008-06-12 17:22:57'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Safari bugs are not really \"Apple bugs\". A better place to report them
    is the Webkit page:\r\nhttp://webkit.org/quality/reporting.html\r\n\r\nWhat are
    the bugs? \r\n(Can you send me an email if you don't want to describe them here?)\r\n\r\nRalf\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-12 17:56:10'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Ralf, \r\n\r\nI wanted to write you directly anyway (in a different matter),
    so I will.\r\nHowever let me ask, are you somehow involved in Webkit.\r\n\r\n(---
    the bug is not a rendering bug, so maybe it's not Webkit, after all... (Webkit
    is the name of the _rendering_ engine, isn't it?))\r\n\r\nSzabolcs"
  created: '2008-06-12 18:06:05'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Webkit is the application framework which several browsers (including) Safari
    are build on. Safari versions can be a little behind the current Webkit versions.
    So it is a good idea to check if your bugs might already fixed in the lastest
    nightly build of Webkit. http://nightly.webkit.org/\r\n\r\nI have no connection
    to Webkit, I am just VERY interested in webfonts. ;-) "
  created: '2008-06-12 18:39:57'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: What they intended to say was simply that standard Web formats for embedded
    fonts now work on Safari. The phrasing, unfortunately, could confuse some people
    about licensing issues, but it was clear enough to me that this wasn't what they
    were talking about.
  created: '2013-07-16 09:29:59'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I don't think so, if you recall in 2008 they only supported raw TTF files,
    and that wasn't considered a standard web font format back then. \r\n\r\nPS. it's
    always interesting what dead threads the spammers bring back to life, and even
    more interesting to see how people respond to them five+ years after they died.
    ;-)"
  created: '2013-07-16 19:41:49'
date: '2008-04-07 16:50:37'
title: Apple says Web designers can post "any font" for use with Safari.

---
