---
author:
  name: typetard
body: "Hi all came across this today\r\nhttp://fontstruct.fontshop.com/"
comments:
- author:
    name: Eli Jager
    picture: 114680
  body: Yea, I found that yesterday on stumble upon I've yet to try it out. Let me
    know what you think about it.
  created: '2008-04-08 00:21:18'
- author:
    name: tomhowe
  body: I love it, so simple and so fast. I'm about to use FontLab for the first time
    next monday and this looks so much more simple than everything I've been reading
    up on FontLab. This is like Paint! Wicked!
  created: '2008-04-08 01:20:51'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Tom, I too love FontStruct, but it is limited to modular fonts. Even FontShop
    acknowledges this at the bottom of each page in the Gallery ("Some fonts you can't
    FontStruct.") Don't miss out on the chance to learn or use FontLab; I'm sure you
    won't regret it.
  created: '2008-04-08 07:31:11'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: It's neat. But, yea, not a replacement as much as just another option in the
    toolbox.
  created: '2008-04-08 14:36:05'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "I've been playing with it for a while now, and it's definitely fun. It's
    also more robust than I expected. However, it's a modular font builder, so you
    have to think on a grid. Fontstruct's font exporting is very easy, so you could
    whip up a simple all caps font in a few days and then wrap it into a project (which
    is nice for those of us without FontLab).\r\n\r\nI'm playing with a blackletter
    for fun. It's called <a href=\"http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/faketur\">Faketur</a>.
    Very much a work-in-progress, but I'm getting a kick out of working within the
    constraints of the grid. The only thing I haven't figured out yet is controlling
    the spacing.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-08 15:03:39'
- author:
    name: Nicole Dotin
    picture: 110879
  body: "Here is another similar tool... been around for years at this point:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.pentacom.jp/soft/ex/font/edit.html"
  created: '2008-04-08 15:16:30'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>The only thing I haven\u2019t figured out yet is controlling the spacing.</em>\r\n\r\nChris,
    I'm not sure you can control the spacing (between letters as well as between words),
    but I think Rob Meek and Co. might be working on improving it -- I read a comment
    somewhere to that effect, but I can't remember for which font.  :-/\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, I love Faketur!"
  created: '2008-04-08 17:38:38'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "Yeah Chris your font is awesome!\r\nI've been playing with it this morning
    as well. I like it, but wish for a little more freedom. It's in beta so I assume
    they'll make some improvements."
  created: '2008-04-08 20:09:45'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: man the voting is nasty tho! seems people vote your stuff down just so they
    can get ahead of you in the ratings. >^p
  created: '2008-04-08 23:23:22'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I played around with Fontstruct when it was in beta and did <a href="http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/162">Boxy
    1</a> and <a href="http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/171">Boxy
    2</a>, which are both based on "fonts" I designed in college (about 1975) on graph
    paper. It's really a lot of fun. Reminds me of making bitmap fonts with Altsys'
    Fontastic, but with the twist that the bits don't have to be squares or fill the
    grid spaces.
  created: '2008-04-08 23:34:08'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: It looks like a potentially useful tool for making pixel fonts. I haven't
    tried it yet, because one aspect makes me uneasy. Even after reading the relevant
    documents over again, it's not entirely clear to me, but it looks as if using
    this tool to execute a design means giving up the rights to the design. There
    are some vague suggestions that a "fontstructed" font belongs to its creator,
    yet FontShop appears to claim the right to dictate what kind of license the creator
    may and may not choose to distribute it with, which means it does not.
  created: '2008-04-08 23:42:17'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "i didn't get that impression. following is from the site:\r\n\r\n<cite>An
    Overview of Licensing\r\n\r\nWhen you, as a designer, share your FontStructions
    you can choose from a number of different Creative Commons licenses.\r\n\r\nThese
    licenses are displayed on the web page of each FontStruction, they are embedded
    in the digital font files, and they are included as a text file as part of each
    download.</cite>\r\n\r\nand just for fun: <a href=\"http://www.pilcrowtype.com/blog/archives/15\">I
    \u2764 FontStruct</a>."
  created: '2008-04-08 23:54:27'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "here is mine. feel free to suggest improvements or ideas.\r\n\r\nhttp://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/exp1_not_complete"
  created: '2008-04-09 00:18:52'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "The new Type Battle announced today utilizes FontStruct! Put your skills
    to the test, think inside the grid.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/battle21"
  created: '2008-04-09 01:28:36'
- author:
    name: iffy
    picture: 113881
  body: "I spent my afternoon at work, not working, and playing with the program.
    Evidently I only hit 'save' after the capital J and when I got to the end and
    pressed save it asked me to sign in again and promptly lost everything I'd done
    after the J. I was so bummed. \r\n\r\nI guess that's what I get for pretending
    to work.\r\n\r\nhonk if you love the status quo"
  created: '2008-04-09 15:47:53'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "I've played around with it now, and it's nice. But I think my concerns are
    still valid. If I put a lot of work into something really useful, it doesn't look
    like I'd be allowed to try to sell it, or even to distribute it free myself without
    advertising FontShop. They've effectively decided for the whole world that any
    creativity that goes into a bitmap or modular font is valueless. Is that their
    call to make?\r\n\r\nSure, I could load my \"FontStruction\" into Typetool to
    add some much-needed kerning pairs and strip out all the info that says my font
    was made by FontShop. But I get the impression that this is a civil infraction.
    And if I <em>don't</em> do this and instead rebuild the font the hard way, the
    very fact that I now have a FontStruct account means I can't prove I didn't."
  created: '2008-04-09 18:06:37'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "Kevin, I'm not sure where you're getting your information from. If you could
    point me in the proper direction...\r\n\r\nFrom the FontStruct website:\r\n\r\n<cite>When
    you, as a designer, share your FontStructions you can choose from a number of
    different Creative Commons licenses.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>These licenses are displayed
    on the web page of each FontStruction, they are embedded in the digital font files,
    and they are included as a text file as part of each download.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>To
    learn more about what Creative Commons is, and what it offers you, please visit
    the <a href=\"http://creativecommons.org/\">Creative Commons website</a>.</cite>\r\n\r\nAs
    stated, these licenses apply only if you share your FontStructions. You can, of
    course, keep them private so only you can download them. presumably, if you do
    this, none of the licenses apply. I tried this last night and the font file I
    downloaded cited me (as my username) as the copyright holder.\r\n\r\nOf course
    it would be excellent to hear from the FontShop folks for further clarification
    tho...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-09 18:21:15'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Saying you 'can choose' from a CC license doesn't seem to imply you must.
    Even if you must, CC licenses are non-exclusive, meaning you can apply additional
    licenses as you see fit (including commercial licenses involving sales).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-09 18:34:33'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Paul and Aluminum got it right. Your work is your own and FontShop claims
    no rights to it beyond what you allow with your Creative Commons license.\r\n\r\n>
    They\u2019ve effectively decided for the whole world that any creativity that
    goes into a bitmap or modular font is valueless.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure what you
    mean here. Could you clarify?\r\n\r\n> strip out all the info that says my font
    was made by FontShop.\r\n\r\nThe only reference to FontShop in the font data is:\r\n\r\nDescription:
    This font was created using FontStruct (http://fontstruct.fontshop.com)\r\nDesigner:
    [Your Name Here]\r\nManufacturer: http://fontstruct.fontshop.com\r\nTrademark:
    FontStruct is a trademark of FSI FontShop International GmbH"
  created: '2008-04-10 10:09:18'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: ">  Your work is your own and FontShop claims no rights to it beyond what
    you allow with your Creative Commons license\r\n\r\nI've been curious about Fontstruct,
    but haven't had a chance to set up an account and noodle with it. (I'm never good
    at early adopting.)\r\n\r\ncouple of questions, Stephen, if you don't mind. \r\n\r\n\u2022
    Does FontShop allow the creators to:\r\n \u2022 distribute their work elsewhere?
    \r\n\u2022 sell their work via a competitor?\r\n\u2022 strip out any FontShop
    ID in the font data?\r\n\r\n\u2022 Does FontShop plan to refine any of these fonts
    and sell them, with royalties to the creators? (What exactly are the plans with
    this?)\r\n\r\n\u2022 Can you tell us who built the actual app? And are there any
    future expansion plans (kerning, for example)?\r\n\r\n\u2022 Can you tell us whose
    idea this was, and how long the site has been in develoment?\r\n\r\n\u2022 If
    a big corporation wants to license a more professional version of a Fontstruct
    font, and they contact FontShop, what does FontShop do?\r\n\r\n\u2022 For purposes
    of copyright (or not), does the font creation happen in the country of creation,
    or is the country of creation the place where FontShop's servers reside?\r\n\r\njust
    a wonderin'.\r\n\r\nthanks in advance."
  created: '2008-04-10 10:56:13'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Damn good questions, bj. I've been a-wonderin' about some of those meself.
  created: '2008-04-10 15:10:58'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "<em>\"I\u2019m not sure what you mean here. Could you clarify?\"</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    it's obviously targeted at font users rather than font designers. It's like, \"Looking
    for a font? Great! If you want a pixel font, play with this toy, because anyone
    can design a pixel font. Or use one that someone else made; they're all free.
    And if you want a <em>real</em> font, buy it from us.\"\r\n\r\nWhen I download
    my font (not having shared it), it comes in a zip with a read-me file all about
    FontStruct and FontShop that ends:\r\n<em>\"LEGAL NOTICE:\r\nIn using this font
    you must comply with the licensing terms described in the\r\nfile \u201Clicense.txt\u201D
    included with this archive.\r\nIf you redistribute the font file in this archive,
    it must be accompanied by\r\nall the other files from this archive, including
    this one.\"</em>\r\nMaybe I'm overcautious, but I feel like it would be foolish
    upon reading this to assume \"you\" doesn't mean me."
  created: '2008-04-10 20:51:52'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "<em> > Does FontShop allow the creators to:\r\n\u2022 distribute their work
    elsewhere?\r\n\u2022 sell their work via a competitor?\r\n\u2022 strip out any
    FontShop ID in the font data?</em>\r\n\r\n<strong>Designers own their FontStructions
    and can either keep them private or choose to share them publicly under a Creative
    Commons license.</strong> So the answer to all of these would be <em>yes</em>.
    There are references to FontStruct in the font data but these do not effect the
    copyright of the designer. The only reference to FontShop is the FontStruct URL
    and trademark for FontStruct. If a user generates a font with FontStruct and then
    works on it with another tool, it makes sense that this info may be replaced.\r\n\r\n<em>
    > Does FontShop plan to refine any of these fonts and sell them, with royalties
    to the creators?</em>\r\n\r\nWe have no specific plans in this area, but we'd
    certainly be in touch with the creators themselves if we did. We also welcome
    font submissions to the FontFont library and foundry submissions to FontShop,
    as usual, whether created with FontStruct or not.\r\n\r\n<em> > Can you tell us
    who built the actual app? And are there any future expansion plans (kerning, for
    example)?</em>\r\n\r\nAs alluded in the site footer, Rob Meek created the concept
    and developed the site and application in collaboration with FontShop. We certainly
    have enhancements planned, and because this is a web app, things can be added
    on the fly. We've received some excellent suggestions from users and encourage
    more feedback.\r\n\r\n<em> > Can you tell us whose idea this was, and how long
    the site has been in develoment?</em>\r\n\r\nFontStruct is Rob Meek's idea and
    we've been working together on it for several months.\r\n\r\n<em> > If a big corporation
    wants to license a more professional version of a Fontstruct font, and they contact
    FontShop, what does FontShop do?</em>\r\n\r\nWe would naturally comply by the
    Creative Commons license applied to that particular FontStruction.\r\n\r\n<em>
    > For purposes of copyright (or not), does the font creation happen in the country
    of creation, or is the country of creation the place where FontShop\u2019s servers
    reside?</em>\r\n\r\nWithout being a lawyer, I can't give a categorical answer,
    but it seems to us that the font creation happens in the country where the creator
    (FontStruct user) is located.\r\n\r\nI hope that clarifies things. It's probably
    helpful to know that the idea behind FontStruct is to cultivate a font-building
    community where modular fonts are created, shared, and discussed freely. There
    is absolutely no intent to exploit designers or their work. The Creative Commons
    licensing options and the privacy options are included to give designers complete
    control over their creations and what they do with them. This is the same model
    used by other creative sharing sites like Flickr.\r\n\r\nFontShop's commercial
    interest in the project is in reinforcing our brand's commitment to creativity
    and directing people to quality typefaces that can't be made with a modular tool."
  created: '2008-04-10 21:41:39'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "Another question for you, Stephen:\r\n\r\nSome commercial fonts are already
    quite modular in their design - how would you react to FontStructed versions of
    existing commercial fonts?\r\n\r\nLegally they would probably be OK, as they undeniably
    are made from scratch, and as long they don't use registered names they should
    go clear of those kind of infringements as well. And the technical quality would
    not be as good as the originals (at least not until you implement spacing and
    kerning ;) so they wouldn't really compete.\r\nBut still..."
  created: '2008-04-10 22:28:42'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: "thanks for the thorough reply.\r\n\r\noops, missed Rob Meek's name, but I
    definitely recognize his work.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.robmeek.com/\r\n\r\n> it makes
    sense that this info may be replaced.\r\n\r\njust a humble suggestion, but from
    a creator point-of-view, more of these questions ought to be answered on the site,
    with more specific language.\r\n\r\nre: modular vs. non-modular\r\n\r\nI got a
    similar feeling as Kevin's, when I visited a week ago, and it seems that the verbiage
    has been softened since then. It didn't bother me too much, because the term,
    modular font, is already a pejorative as it relates to type. But what's interesting
    is seeing faces like Cholla Slab pop up as non-modular, when it clearly is modular
    with some finish. And don't most typefaces have modular underpinnings? \u2014
    shapes/units repeat, and type designers use the repeating shapes for other letters.
    Really, what is the determinant as to what constitutes a modular font, just out
    of curiosity?\r\n\r\nmodular: Designed with standardized units or dimensions,
    as for easy assembly and repair or flexible arrangement and use.\r\n\r\nIt's an
    interesting conflict for Fontshop. If you are opening up type design to the masses
    with a clever app, and you want to build a crowdsourced community and serve advertising,
    wouldn't it make sense to point out how the creations can never be as good as
    a real FontShop typeface from a real type designer? And actually keep Rob's application
    from getting too advanced?\r\n\r\nBut then are they truly serving this new community,
    and the needs of the new community?\r\n\r\nFontstruct, and a crowdsourced type
    design community \u2014 these are such landscape changers in terms of innovation
    ... but maybe it really won't have much affect on the 'regular' type industry,
    perception of type designers, etc. But it sure does raise a lot of questions.
    :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-10 22:58:39'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Some commercial fonts are already quite modular in their design - how
    would you react to FontStructed versions of existing commercial fonts?</em>\r\n\r\nRoger,
    I believe there is already an example of that: user mattmc created <a href=\"http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/1533\">a
    FontStruct version of Wim Crouwel's New Alphabet</a>, and there is <a href=\"http://www.foundrytypes.co.uk/foundry_architype_3/archi_3_new_alpha3.html\">an
    existing commercial version</a> made by <a href=\"http://www.foundrytypes.co.uk/\">The
    Foundry</a>."
  created: '2008-04-10 23:02:04'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "<em> > wouldn\u2019t it make sense to point out how the creations can never
    be as good as a real FontShop typeface from a real type designer?</em>\r\n\r\n\"Good\"
    is subjective. ;) Seriously, I believe the contrast is already made clear in the
    differences between the FontStructions and the FontShop fonts featured at the
    bottom of the Gallery pages. \r\n\r\nThe enhancements we plan to add are focused
    on community, discussion, and sharing more than on creating the next Garamond,
    Helvetica, or even Cholla."
  created: '2008-04-10 23:47:43'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "I want to say I appreciate that you've answered these questions clearly,
    and would have appreciated it equally even if the answers had not been the ones
    I hoped for.\r\n\r\nI apologize if I seemed confrontational. It's just easy to
    become gun-shy in regard to services that handle member-generated content and
    have ambiguous terms of use. Many companies, from Caf\xE9 Press to Six Apart,
    have repeatedly stumbled into these problems, whether through accidental misunderstandings,
    casual disregard, or deliberate greed. An artist has to be careful these days
    lest he jump onto what looks like a great resource and find he's given all his
    work away.\r\n\r\nEven though trying to ascribe value to raster font design may
    indeed be a lost cause at this point, and even though it's clear now that I'm
    welcome to try on my own while still availing myself of this nice free tool you've
    provided, consider this suggestion: I would happily pay a small sum of money for
    a special account with which I could offer a particularly elaborate FontStruction
    through the FontStruct site for a dollar, which people may pay just for the convenience
    of not constructing it themselves... Not a trivial thing to implement, I know,
    what with processing payments and sending out checks and all, but it could be
    worthwhile."
  created: '2008-04-11 01:17:51'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Hmmm Me too. And actually having kerned my little font battler I wouldn't
    mind if I could somehow post it especially if it could be sold for $2-3 or something.
    Putting that infrastructure in is not a minor task though - i bet.  \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-18 03:01:48'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Your typeface rocks, Eben. Very cool work!
  created: '2008-04-18 16:33:30'
date: '2008-04-08 00:01:52'
node_type: forum
title: Fontstruct

---
