---
author:
  name: kris
body: "Kia ora folks,\r\n\r\nI've just finished a <a href=\"http://www.klim.co.nz/custom_hardys.php\">custom
  typeface</a> for the Hardys wine range, owned by Constellation Wines Australia.
  You might be interested to see it, it's quite different to what I normally draw
  & what's currently fashionable. Your thoughts are welcome, as always!\r\n\r\n\u2014K\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: boardman
    picture: 110337
  body: It's gorgeous. Congrats, Kris. I only wish we didn't have to wait until 2011
    to use it.
  created: '2008-04-08 21:33:58'
- author:
    name: Stefan H
    picture: 109742
  body: Well done, looks great. The client must (should) be happy?!
  created: '2008-04-08 21:54:32'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I like the flower petal curve on the finials. I like the semi-serif feel
    of it. I like the roundness of it.\r\nI sense a little Dutch-ness ala how Gerard
    Unger deals with joins and overall crispness. \r\nBeautiful.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-08 22:05:11'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Congratulations!  The numbers are especially compelling.
  created: '2008-04-08 22:07:07'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: 'That''s gorgeous Kris. I agree with Ebin, those numbers are beautiful. '
  created: '2008-04-08 22:50:59'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "You really nailed it, Kris! I agree with Tiffany\u2014those curves are great!"
  created: '2008-04-08 22:59:23'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Very nice. My compliments! :)\r\n\r\nI think it has a nice informal feel
    to it. It's still luxurious, but not too much."
  created: '2008-04-09 00:25:26'
- author:
    name: rectangular
    picture: 114412
  body: "Very nice typeface.\r\n\r\noff topic: I love that you posted your type sketches.
    I always enjoy seeing parts of others process."
  created: '2008-04-09 07:36:03'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "Lovely one. <em>(I especially like the 'a'. Smoooooth as wine. ;)</em>\r\n\r\nDav"
  created: '2008-04-09 08:29:40'
- author:
    name: brett jordan
    picture: 112129
  body: Absolutely beautiful, and appropriate. Hope they reserve it for their 'high-end'
    varietals :-)
  created: '2008-04-09 10:15:49'
- author:
    name: iffy
    picture: 113881
  body: "Your sketchbooks made me drool.\r\n\r\nhonk if you love the status quo"
  created: '2008-04-09 15:45:42'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: Relative n00b here, first time seeing your work. The eyeglass g is awe inspiring.
  created: '2008-04-09 23:22:37'
- author:
    name: nana
    picture: 114558
  body: Wow, so beautiful! I'm not very fluent in typography terms, but I love how
    confident it looks, as well as the roundness. Yummy but very sophisticated!
  created: '2008-04-09 23:59:03'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "Holly jumping asterisks! This is gorgeous! I hope the client has the eye
    to appreciate this work.\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-04-10 01:01:59'
- author:
    name: sarahcazee
    picture: 112861
  body: 'I loooove it! The lowercase a is especially pretty. '
  created: '2008-04-10 01:17:40'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "Loverly, Kris.\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2008-04-10 03:29:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Spectacular work, Kris! You are really on a roll now, keep them coming!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-10 03:37:06'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: Wonderful! I'm with Eben on the numbers and I was also struck by that beautiful
    acute accent.
  created: '2008-04-10 08:45:10'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "Outstanding work, Kris!\r\nBut Feijoa is still among my loved ones. :)"
  created: '2008-04-10 10:10:28'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: The numbers are great. I really like the height on the old-style figures.
  created: '2008-04-10 18:12:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Ok, I'll be the skunk at the picnic. \r\n\r\nThis is beautifully drawn, as
    Kris can't help it :) \r\n\r\nHowever, I do think that there is a problem of the
    relative widths of the lower case characters. To me some characters are too wide
    and disturb the word forms. I'm not sure what would fix it, but to me the e and
    a, for example, are too wide, and maybe others as well.  "
  created: '2008-04-10 18:24:11'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "never judge fonts on screen.*\r\nof course, you can,\r\nbut it's not a true
    representation\r\nof how the type functions\r\non the page\r\n\r\n*except, of
    course, screen fonts"
  created: '2008-04-10 18:29:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...but to me the e and a, for example, are too wide, and maybe others as
    well.\"\r\n\r\nI don't see what you see, Bill. Particularly at smaller sizes,
    it helps keep the color even. The proportions may not be the old classics but
    to me they are consistent and work quite well.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-10 18:33:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">The proportions may not be the old classics \r\n\r\nI have noticed that
    after being immersed in work on the italic, the roman looks slanted and wrong.
    \r\n\r\nSo admittedly my eyes--or rather brain--may be distorted from looking
    at classic proportions. \r\n\r\nOr not.\r\n\r\nAnd of course you're right Paul
    that the screen is tricky. A PDF is better... "
  created: '2008-04-10 19:27:14'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "William's perception may be an example of what James Mosley identified in
    his ATypI talk about English Vernacular: The more attention we pay to the \"Classic\"
    model of the Renaissance, the less likely we are to appreciate the strengths of
    other styles, and Kris' typeface looks to me to be a really beautiful example
    of this other classic, the 18th-century vernacular style: wide, stout letters,
    squarish shapes, baroque finish, derived less from broad pen and more from pointed
    pen.\r\n\r\nI really like this design and think it carries a wonderful amount
    of elegance and luxury without being fussy. Nice work, Kris! "
  created: '2008-04-10 20:01:08'
- author:
    name: somol
    picture: 113622
  body: Congrats. It is fabulous.
  created: '2008-04-10 20:38:38'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Thanks for all of your kind words, folks! \r\n\r\n<em>Absolutely beautiful,
    and appropriate. Hope they reserve it for their \u2019high-end\u2019 varietals
    :-)</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not entirely sure what it will be used for exactly, I think
    it will be for most of the range. Have to wait & see I suppose!\r\n\r\n<em>However,
    I do think that there is a problem of the relative widths of the lower case characters.
    To me some characters are too wide and disturb the word forms. I\u2019m not sure
    what would fix it, but to me the e and a, for example, are too wide, and maybe
    others as well.</em>\r\n\r\nTiff made this same comment offline. Carl has nailed
    it, though (thanks mate!). This is based on some of the quirkier English styles,
    particularly the Latin styles. I had to fight the urge to 'smooth' everything
    out, as that would make it a bit too bland & average. I'd love to put a PDF up,
    Bill, but pretty sure the client wouldn't be into it!\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2008-04-10 21:11:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Tiff made this same comment offline. \r\n\r\nHa! I thought of e-mailing
    you instead, as there was this love fest going on. But you know I show love through
    critique, too, right? And I figured others would then have interesting stuff to
    say, as has turned out to be so. \r\n\r\n>Latin styles\r\n\r\nMaybe this is the
    problem. I really can't put my finger on it, but maybe the small serifs with the
    wide  style feels awkward to me. \r\n\r\nAh yes, maybe that's it. The original
    Latin style has big honking triangular serifs, right? I really don't like [[http://www.myfonts.com/search?search%5Btext%5D=Americana|Americana]],
    which is well executed but also wide with small serifs. Your design is different,
    but maybe it made my Americana allergy flare up :) "
  created: '2008-04-10 21:55:19'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>William\u2019s perception may be an example of what James Mosley identified
    in his ATypI talk about English Vernacular\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nIs this talk online
    somewhere?"
  created: '2008-04-10 22:05:28'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I noticed the reference to English Latins -- like the Stephenson & Blake
    Lining Old Style No.3, or their Lining Booklet -- and judged the whole in that
    light. (I've got both those pages flagged in my specimen.) I don't know if you
    were looking at those models specifically, Kris; but I feel like I'm bumping into
    you wherever I turn next. Good taste you've got there, mate. And an excellent
    hand. Well done.\r\n\r\nBill -- I think this makes an interesting case study.
    I suppose when you've been immersed in Caslon for quite a while (and it has been
    a while now hasn't it), these proportions are really going to come at you from
    left field. Like Carl pointed out, think about how remarkable these styles must
    have seemed when they first came about (for better or worse). \r\n\r\nBTW, wouldn't
    that have been more 19th-century vernacular than 18th?\r\n\r\n-- Kent."
  created: '2008-04-10 23:25:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I had to fight the urge to \u2019smooth\u2019 everything out, as that would
    make it a bit too bland & average. \r\n\r\nKris, I don't know if this is what
    you mean, but I do think it is possible to have extremely even color but still
    have a lot of 'flavor' in the shapes. The 'Moderno' that is now the Typophile
    display font achieves this. In other words, it is possible to be 'smooth' in a
    certain sense, but not bland and average. My concern on this font of yours--and
    not others  of yours like National or Meta Serif Black--is with uneven color.
    While I greatly respect the 'eyes' of others commenting in this thread, the fact
    is that Tiffany noticed something, too. I think that means my reaction is not
    just a result of my looking too much at other styles.  "
  created: '2008-04-11 14:19:58'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t know if you were looking at those models specifically, Kris;
    but I feel like I\u2019m bumping into you wherever I turn next. Good taste you\u2019ve
    got there, mate. And an excellent hand. Well done.</em>\r\n\r\nThanks Kent! I
    wasn't referencing them specifically, but they were indeed looked at. \r\n\r\n<em>Kris,
    I don\u2019t know if this is what you mean, but I do think it is possible to have
    extremely even color but still have a lot of \u2019flavor\u2019 in the shapes</em>\r\n\r\nSo
    if the 'e' 'a' etc were narrowed, the colour would be more even for you? How even
    does it need to be? Is 100% \"even\" the most desirable thing to have? I think
    that 'evening' out the widths would kill the spirit. \r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2008-04-11 22:12:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Is 100% \u201Ceven\u201D the most desirable thing to have? I think that
    \u2019evening\u2019 out the widths would kill the spirit.\r\n\r\nWell, I admit
    this is my pet theory, but I think that in order to look even you have to make
    the letters more different, not less different--but in specific ways. So it's
    not a matter of evening widths; it is a matter of their relationships. \r\n\r\nI'm
    can't tell you physically what it is, but I think I can see it when I put a letter
    between others, and play with its width and weights of strokes. I think it has
    to do with the overall density of the black (or white) within the advance width,
    but also it is affected by the distribution of weight in the letter.  \r\n\r\nIt
    ends up with there being a relationship among widths within a design, where making
    some too narrow or wide in relation to the other disturbs the rhythm of the way
    they set, and makes words look not as good, even though the individual letters
    may look good. \r\n\r\nIt is related all the readability stuff I've been blathering
    about on typophile. Hopefully I'll very soon be able to give you a detailed illustration
    of how I've carried it out, but I think there are a lot of typefaces that do this
    quite well--including some of your own. \r\n\r\nKent, might you put up a scan
    of those you were referencing? "
  created: '2008-04-11 22:28:26'
- author:
    name: loremipsum
  body: "Very nice, really.\r\n\r\n(At first sight, lowercase g seems to belong to
    another typeface - like Caslon g used in Versailles (extreme exaggeration). Also,
    lowercase a looks inclined to the left a little. But it's really just the very
    first look.)\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-11 22:45:35'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Bill --\r\n\r\nI think some of what you're talking about is also a function
    of different environments -- essentially display vs. text. I'm guessing that the
    Hardy's commission was a one-size-fits-all and was probably skewed toward display,
    since I imagine packaging will be a primary use. \r\n\r\nI think the even color
    you're looking for can also be a matter of distribution of weight as much as relative
    proportion. In a \"transitional\" style like Hardys there are some real challenges
    when trying to get good display qualities. The way that weight is carried on the
    shoulder of the arch letters (which tend to retain more oldstyle characteristics)
    vs. the weight around the \"corners\" of round letters (which are more upright
    in angle) can be a tricky balance to achieve while still retaining the style's
    essential qualities. Keeping contrast crisp for display exacerbates the problem,
    while reducing contrast for more sturdy text performance tends to ameliorate the
    issue.\r\n\r\nIf I get a chance later, perhaps I can get up a scan of some English
    Latins. But don't hold your breath. I don't know that they're that germane.\r\n\r\n--
    K."
  created: '2008-04-12 14:53:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I think the even color you\u2019re looking for can also be a matter of distribution
    of weight as much as relative proportion.\r\n\r\nI agree; that's what I was attempting
    to say above. \r\n\r\n>The way that weight is carried on the shoulder of the arch
    letters\r\n\r\nYes, that's one key feature of a type design. I'm not clear about
    the point you're making, though. \r\n\r\nIn Baskerville, the stress is vertical,
    and the weight of the shoulders much reduced compared to old style. This goes
    together as both are a natural result of using the pointed pen--as I learned in
    the thread on that issue. \r\n\r\nIn Caslon's designs, the vertical o contradicts
    the slanted stress of the b d etc; its stress doesn't follow the rules of the
    broad pen held at a constant angle. This variation is a characteristic of what
    Bringhurst calls 'Baroque' faces, of which Caslon is an example. \r\n\r\nI agree
    with you that in a display face you can contradict good text rhythm for the sake
    of a gain in artistic or decorative effect. But I don't see the gain here. For
    example, in Hardy bold, I don't see the same problems in rhythm as in the regular.
    I don't see why the regular couldn't be the same...\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-12 19:37:54'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Again, thanks Kent for your acute input.\r\n\r\n<em>Well, I admit this is
    my pet theory, but I think that in order to look even you have to make the letters
    more different, not less different\u2014but in specific ways. So it\u2019s not
    a matter of evening widths; it is a matter of their relationships\u2026I\u2019m
    can\u2019t tell you physically what it is\u2026It is related all the readability
    stuff I\u2019ve been blathering about on typophile. Hopefully I\u2019ll very soon
    be able to give you a detailed illustration of how I\u2019ve carried it out\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nSo
    you don't dig the rhythm in the Regular, but reckon it's OK in the Bold? Fine
    by me. I do disagree with you, of course. I'd love to see a concise, detailed
    illustration of your pet readability theories! When can we expect this?\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2008-04-12 21:58:09'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > I agree; that\u2019s what I was attempting to say above.</cite>\r\n\r\nOK.
    I didn't get that. \r\n\r\nI thought you were saying that the relative widths
    of some letters -- e a, for instance -- were too wide and caused uneven color.
    My point was that it might not be so much their relative width as choices in how
    the weight is handled. \r\n\r\nI can imagine pulling just a little more weight
    around the lower left, 7:00-8:00 region on the a c and e, for instance, without
    adjusting their relative width, and perhaps achieving more of what I think you're
    seeking. \r\n\r\nThe second part of my point was that doing this will subtly affect
    the nature of the stress in the glyphs. This will be negligible in a low contrast,
    text environment; but in a higher contrast, higher style, display environment,
    it will be more apparent and the choice of where to strike that balance may be
    different.\r\n\r\nIt's hard for me to say whether in this case the Regular could
    be made more like the Bold in this way without losing something. One would have
    to try it out. \r\n\r\n-- Kent.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-13 21:16:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">not be so much their relative width as choices in how the weight is handled.\r\n\r\nYes,
    both weights and widths are involved. I just first noticed the a, that it pushed
    itself to my attention a little more, which is not so good. My first guess was
    that it is too wide. In general to improve color and rhythm, is a matter of playing
    with both weights and widths, and hopefully combination of them ends up working.
    \ \r\n\r\nKris, I wish I had a comprehensive theory, but I don't. I just have
    ideas, which I apply by trial and error. Some of the ideas are: \r\n\r\n1. Even
    color is paramount in the lower case of a text face, because uneven color constitutes
    'noise' that interferes with readability. The idea is that the only thing that
    should be different are the shapes, and not the *apparent* darkness or lightness
    of any parts. This goal can't always be realized, as with the L an r, but closer
    is better. \r\n\r\nCaps, however, don't have to be even color with the lower case,
    since the caps are supposed to stick out as markers. Maybe for German even color
    between caps and lower case is more important--I don't know. \r\n\r\n2. Even color
    does involve the same black/white density within the advance width, in the x-height
    region, I suspect. The counters need some kind of harmony, but it's not a matter
    of strict equality, either in width or area. I can't characterize it more precisely,
    at least not yet. \r\n\r\n2. Often achieving even color often means more variation
    in among characters--a design that is less 'modular.' I have ideas on how to do
    this for the design I have been working on, and will put up an illustration after
    I finish the text size--I hope very soon!\r\n\r\n3. As a practical matter, as
    I work I compare on the screen the same words in my design and another typeface
    I think is very even. My main standard has been Adobe Garamond, but I have used
    others, including recently Kent's Whitman, which I think is admirable in that
    respect. It probably helps to have a design that is in the same general category,
    but the idea is *not* to match the design, but the evenness of the look. \r\n\r\nSome
    tricky stuff is going on with vertically divided letters, like a e s A E S. Generally,
    when you divide a space, the top half is going to be vertically smaller, and often
    narrower as well. That is often going to affect the counter, or how wide it will
    be. Generally, the whole thing seems to get narrower to look right; a's are usually
    narrower than n's or o's, I believe.  \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n"
  created: '2008-04-13 22:04:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "That's lovely, Kris, I'm thirsty already. Fresh concept, and nicely done.\r\n\r\nThe
    even width and weighting of the letters are fine. This is a style which is very
    modern, in a mid-19th century kind of way, so that's how it should be.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-13 22:50:40'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nThat all sounds fairly straight forward. But if you've been
    using Adobe Garamond (!) as a 'spacing standard' then you're bound to be a bit
    sensitive/biased against other styles. \r\n\r\nNick,\r\n\r\nThanks! How's your
    Modern/Figgins coming along?\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2008-04-14 01:50:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: It's pretty much finished, except I am waiting on a third party to check all
    the encodings, etc., before release.
  created: '2008-04-14 03:29:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">But if you\u2019ve been using Adobe Garamond (!) as a \u2019spacing standard\u2019
    then you\u2019re bound to be a bit sensitive/biased against other styles.\r\n\r\nAs
    I said, even color is a product not only of \"spacing\", but also of width and
    weight distribution of the glyphs--aspects of glyph design. I usually have several
    different styles open to compare mine to, not just Adobe Garamond. And I've not
    just re-spaced, but re-drawn in response to this comparative process. \r\n\r\nAlso,
    I don't think only old styles can have good color. Chronicle is an example of
    a recent 'Scotch' that I find strikingly well done as far as even color. And as
    I have said, I find Whitman also very good in that respect, and it also is not
    an old style. Moderno, now in our headings, is a display face, but it also is
    very even--even without kerning, which is pretty impressive. \r\n"
  created: '2008-04-14 05:25:50'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: "each to their own thank goodness.\r\n\r\n@Chris: Well done Kris and \"4 more
    years boys, 4 more years\" well 3 actually before we can buy it.\r\nI wonder what
    high calibre of typefaces you would have produced by then, should I start making
    automatic payments to your foundries now?"
  created: '2008-04-14 09:22:14'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi William,\r\n\r\nyour theories are very good!\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2008-04-14 12:21:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Stefan, \r\n\r\nThanks. There's another important factor here, which is not
    my theory but that of David Kindersley. He wrote that there is a 'visual center'
    to a character, and that visual center needs to be equidistant from the side bearings
    to look balanced within words. The visual center is something like if the letter
    were solid, and you put it on a board, the visual center would be near where a
    fulcrum would have it balance. Except that the left and right extremes of the
    letter have more weight--Kindersley used the square of the area in a column slice
    of the letter (square of its weight, if solid), rather than just its area (weight).\r\n\r\nThere
    is another factor noted by others, which is that the spaces between letters need
    to look visually even. But the need for visual centering and for visually even
    spacing between different letters don't necessarily work together, so not every
    design will space well as far as even color. \r\n\r\nKindersley gives the interesting
    example of the L, and the often heavy serif at the end of the leg. What this heavy
    serif does is to shift the visual center of the L to the right. And that means
    that if you space the left side bearing of the L similar to the I, the L will
    look visually less unbalanced than it would without the serif. It still leaves
    a hole, unless you have an all caps setting very widely spaced, but it helps.\r\n\r\nKindersley's
    theory doesn't capture all that is going on visually, but it is a very interesting
    insight, I think. It shows that how you distribute the weight in the glyph affects
    how even the color will be, and how you should space it.   \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-14 16:17:14'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Bill I am sorry but I think the idea that an a (or s) has to be narrow to
    make it look even on the page is silly. It's an optical question not a question
    of tradition or anything else. \r\n\r\nCarl's point about this being designed
    with display in mind is a more important point even than mine. A great text face
    with great even color wouldn't work well in this context. It would be far too
    dull. "
  created: '2008-04-14 17:04:14'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Might be a good time for a new thread as it has spun into something more about
    spacing and less about Kris' lovely new typeface.
  created: '2008-04-14 17:14:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Eben, I think you''ve misunderstood me, but probably Tiffany is right; it''s
    probably better to take this up in another thread, where it''s more on topic. '
  created: '2008-04-14 17:28:01'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Hey, this wouldn't be Typophile if we just stuck to the topic, now would it?
    ;-)
  created: '2008-04-14 18:43:45'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Kent, Agreed. But Bill, If you want to create that thread please feel free.
  created: '2008-04-14 21:00:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: I did; [[http://typophile.com/node/44211|It's here.]]
  created: '2008-04-14 21:08:57'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Yeah. I know. Sorry to be such a stick in the mud.
  created: '2008-04-14 22:58:16'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi William!\r\n\r\nI am at work \u2013\_so briefly.\r\nI do like and share
    for myself (although I explain it in my theories in other words) the state that
    was made about the visual center. Think this hits the point. One of my most important
    words is rhythm. A thing that in the most digital faces is inexistent - to say
    it a bit provocative - because of the kerning work. I think a brillant typeface
    has to be designed in a way that it needs not to be kerned at all, at least in
    my eyes. It can work with a visual center.\r\n\r\nHear you\r\nStefan"
  created: '2008-04-15 08:28:08'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "PS\r\n\r\nThan there is also another point I find important. That is the
    fact that for example in storic typefaces like Jensons the outlines of the letters
    aren\u2019t so smooth. They offer the other letters points to attach themselves
    so that the rhythm is carried on more easily. Jensons spaces aren\u2019t too perfect
    (and they are wide for todays opinion) but they work perfect! Nobody will dare
    to kern Jensons letters. I at least won\u2019t.\r\n\r\nsalute\r\nStefan"
  created: '2008-04-15 08:57:41'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Stefan Seifert, wrong thread. <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/44211\"
    target=\"_blank\">Spacing discussion to be continued here.</a>\r\nAnd no, starting
    a new thread was not a good idea.&nbsp;&nbsp;;-)"
  created: '2008-04-15 08:59:29'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: :-(
  created: '2008-04-15 11:14:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">And no, starting a new thread was not a good idea.  ;-)\r\n\r\nIn general,
    I am all for continuing a thread even with change of topic. Typophile is like
    the Talmud--a record of discussions--in that many of the most interesting discussions
    have little or nothing to do with the original topic. That is fine with me. \r\n\r\nHowever,
    in this case, this thread was mainly about honoring Kris's work. I felt badly
    about introducing a sour note, but I felt that the issue I raised was important
    enough to raise anyway. But I didn't want to go on too long about it. \r\n\r\nStefan,
    I think Kindersley would probably agree with you. In his scheme, all caps setting
    should ideally be 'tracked' widely enough that the R can get its full ideal advance
    width and spacing. If it has to be tighter, then it is just tracked closer, everything
    else should be kept the same, and it is better to overlap RA and KA, etc, rather
    than spacing them wider than the rest. But I think, contra Kindersley, it is questionable
    whether the best spacing stays the same at all tracking numbers.   "
  created: '2008-04-15 13:37:18'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi William,\r\n\r\nthough it is not recommended ;-) (Sorry Kris - your work
    sure is great!)\r\nhere another picture I made yesterday about spacing and ryhtm...\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Diagramm_5667.gif][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bild-1_5695.gif]"
  created: '2008-04-19 11:33:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Stephan, I continued [[http://typophile.com/node/44211|the discussion of
    design and spacing here.]]\r\n\r\nI don't understand what you are trying to show
    in your diagrams, which look interesting. Could you explain them? "
  created: '2008-04-19 15:24:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Kris has made one sweet figure 8 in Hardy's! Love the transitions into the
    abreviated serifs, too.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-19 17:00:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Kris has made one sweet figure 8 in Hardy\u2019s\r\n\r\nYes, there are a
    lot of details I love too. My favorite is the dynamic acute accent.\r\n\r\nLooking
    again at the word \"Sauvingon,\" maybe what disturbed me also is the tight kerning
    of the S to the a. I am finding now as I am kerning that caps look better when
    they stand off a bit from the lower case characters. They, being broader, want
    a little bit more space than the lower case letters, so the kerning needs to be
    a compromise between lc and upper case spacing. By now, Kris has more experience
    at this than I, but that's how it looks to me. (The C in Cuvee looks too tight
    to me also.)  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-19 17:20:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I am finding now as I am kerning that caps look better when they stand
    off a bit from the lower case characters. They, being broader, want a little bit
    more space than the lower case letters,\"\r\n\r\nThat can be true with smaller
    x-height fonts or with caps that are much bolder than lower case but not so true
    in other cases. I think Kris has hit it spot on with Hardy's.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-19 18:04:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">That can be true with smaller x-height fonts or with caps that are much
    bolder than lower case but not so true in other cases.\r\n\r\nI'm sure you're
    right that this has an impact. \r\n\r\nI've looked in Mac McGrew's American Metal
    Typefaces and saw these Latins:\r\n\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Latins_4646.gif]\r\n\r\nSo
    now I'm seeing something I think similar to what inspired Kris, and I'm getting
    a better picture. I don't like these 'Latins' either, as to me the proportions
    are ungainly, including the wide a. Kris's rendering of the style is a big improvement
    on these to my eyes. But I just don't like the style. \r\n\r\nSo this may be part
    of my own antipathy to a lot of Victorian styles. With a lot of exceptions I tend
    to feel: 18th century--good. 19th Century--bad. 20th century first half--good.
    20th century second half, pre-digital--not so good.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-19 21:39:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I guess we will need another thread for that discussion since Kris's thread
    is in danger of being hijacked a 3rd time.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-19 22:13:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">hijacked\r\n\r\nArrrgh matey, me be Pirate Bill, rough and tough I be :) "
  created: '2008-04-19 22:20:40'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: "Here's one more post continuing the lovefest for this typeface!   I wish
    I could buy it now....   My eye is maybe 2% as keen as, say, Kent's, but given
    how much I've enjoyed working with Feijoa, I trust Kris' craftmanship a whole
    lot.\r\n\r\n(And Kris, Scream Sorbet will be making a Feijoa flavor when they
    come into season again in Northern Cali.  None of our customers will get the nerdy
    thrill that I do, but hey.)\r\n\r\n\r\n---\r\neeblet.com"
  created: '2008-04-20 04:00:56'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Bill, matey, you might want a different appellation than that P-word ;-)
    Aargh.\r\n\r\nSorry I never got back to those samples. Looks like you dug up your
    own. I was reluctant to derail the thread, but since the damage has already been
    done and you've already gone there, here is the Stephenson Blake Lining Booklet
    face that I was referring to. Another example of the genre.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SB-LiningBooklet_6402.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    can understand your dislike. Victorian-era styles are an acquired taste. I didn't
    used to like this sort of Latin thing. Now I find them fascinating.\r\n\r\n--
    Kent."
  created: '2008-04-20 14:07:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Now I find them fascinating.\r\n\r\nVictoriana-R virus--highly infectious
    and dangerous. \r\n\r\nsymptoms: In the male, initial symptoms include the sufferer
    declaring that portraits of the young Queen are 'hot'. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Young
    Queen Victoria copy_4243.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\nDesign afflictions follow, involving
    curls :)"
  created: '2008-04-20 19:46:39'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: "@Kris: \"it\u2019s quite different to what I normally draw & what\u2019s
    currently fashionable.\" Kris I think you are setting the fashion. \r\n\r\nwhat
    is with the private party above???"
  created: '2008-04-21 08:34:21'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Guess thats what the \u2018V\u2019 is for ;-)\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2008-04-21 09:16:38'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi William,\r\n\r\nI tried to show with my pictures effects that letters
    show if they were looked upon with an out of focus. It becomes clearer what is
    meant by the optical \u2018center\u2019 of a letter. Or a thing that I call ryhtm.
    If the \u2018a\u2019 in the example (its design intuitively decentered to the
    right as we all do it day by day) is put out of focusand then used a filter that
    interpolates the remaining colour other forms come to the surface like these elliptical
    ones on the second picture. In theory the fields A an B have to have the same
    amount of blackness.\r\nSecond we see the optical center of the new curves pushed
    to the right almost simmetrical to the center line. So when we slightly may close
    our eyes over a text this is what has to remain as rythm giving parts. But I see
    its too much explaining for a thing that has to be done in design by intuition..\r\nBut
    I found it curious to see nevertheless.\r\nFinally we have to be aware that when
    we design our curves we design also these hidden ones as well, don\u2019t we?\r\n\r\nCiao
    William\r\nsee you in some other thread!\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2008-04-21 09:26:01'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Bill -- LOL. But I don't think curls are in the offing ;-)
  created: '2008-04-21 13:33:59'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: '@Kent: That is LOVELY!!'
  created: '2008-04-22 00:03:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">That is LOVELY!!\r\n\r\nIt does look much better than the ones I found in
    Mac McGrew. It is interesting that this more monoline version seems to work better
    with the stretched letter forms.\r\n\r\nNow that I think of it, a lot of Marian
    Bantje's stuff, which I adore, also uses monoline curls..."
  created: '2008-04-22 14:27:49'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: One question Kris, how much wine are you getting out of this deal?
  created: '2008-04-22 14:58:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I hope Kris is getting a golden key to the whole vinyard out of the deal
    for his fine piece of work.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-22 15:37:33'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Bill --\r\n\r\nHere's the ATF version of the Latin Antique. Not much different
    from the BB&S version, but this showing looks a little nicer to me than the McGrew
    sample, and does the style a little more justice.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ATF-LatinAntiqueNo520_5346.gif]"
  created: '2008-04-22 17:08:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "That ATF version is better, but but the lower case still looks awkward to
    me. \r\n\r\nI think that your earlier posted Lining Booklet face pulls it off
    better. Somehow the way the curl on the \"a\" makes the counter on the top of
    the a smaller, so it visually fits better, in spite of being over-wide. Similarly,
    the top of the \"e\" has the side arches pulled in, making it look narrower on
    top, and visually fit better. I still feel the Lining Booklet has problems, but
    the way the curls are handled generally give the face a jolly mood, without being
    saccharine, and that is distinctive and nice. \r\n\r\nBut I wouldn't be surprised
    if there are other faces from that era, such as the silent film title faces, which
    have the curls with a similar mood, but more well proportioned, and work better. "
  created: '2008-04-23 14:38:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '[[http://fontbureau.com/fonts/Minah/charset|Minah]] is a contemporary face
    with curls that somehow echoes the early 20th century feeling, but still looks
    contemporary and really charming.  '
  created: '2008-04-23 14:46:15'
date: '2008-04-08 21:23:10'
node_type: forum
title: 'Hardys: a new custom typeface.'

---
