---
author:
  name: Zara Evens
  picture: 110565
body: "Here's your chance to stretch your type muscles on a weekly basis. We are posting
  a day late, but you still have one week to create and submit your entry. Anyone
  may submit a design response to the challenge. You may enter as often as you wish.
  Post anytime. Critiques and comments are welcome throughout the game, from participants
  and spectators alike. Smack talk is encouraged.\r\n\r\nAs with any street battle,
  there is no panel of judges and no prize \u2014 only the ability to call yourself
  the best on the block.\r\n\r\nLink directly to this thread: http://www.typophile.com/battle21\r\n\r\n//
  REQUIREMENTS\r\n\r\n- Image size: 550 width x 400 height. 72 dpi\r\n- Color: Black
  and white only\r\n- Format: Please save your graphics as PNG\r\n\r\n <strong>//
  THIS WEEK'S CHALLENGE:\r\n// Utilizing the free, online font-building tool, <a href=\"http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/\">FontStruct</a>,
  complete at a minimum, a lower case typeface that will look great in a paragraph
  of text. Post your results in the form of a PNG, and include a link to your FontStruction.</strong>\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontstruct.com\r\n\r\nWinner
  take all, no holds barred. May be the best designer win.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Are you allowed to tweak the spacing or add/subtract parts? Fontstruct is
    awesome but sometimes the loss of a kern is catastrophic. Also serifs ruin spacing
    with the auto spacing. Regarding spacing/metrics and so on please read:\r\n\r\nhttp://fontstruct.fontshop.com/faq/fonts/can_i_control_the_metrics_generated_by_fontstruct\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-09 02:22:06'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: Ooooh! I'm in! Guaranteed to place last, but in!
  created: '2008-04-09 02:22:25'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/exptest_6714.png]\r\n\r\nThis has no
    right side serifs extending except for a few letters like x because it plays merry
    hell with the spacing."
  created: '2008-04-09 02:38:00'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Ooh, Eben, it looks like I'm looking through a <a href="http://www.visualsunlimited.com/images/watermarked/228/228008.jpg">microscope
    at some chromosomes</a>.
  created: '2008-04-09 02:54:18'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: It needs to get more chromosome-like before I am done. The p needs fixing
    for instance - lower connection to the stem...
  created: '2008-04-09 02:57:53'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Beautiful, Eben. Even nicer than I expected. That really proves that we need
    to refine FontStruct's gallery widget. Love the way you've used smaller dots to
    emulate antialiasing.\r\n\r\nJoe - get your Punchcut boys in here. They have made
    some excellent text-worthy FontStructions."
  created: '2008-04-09 03:12:04'
- author:
    name: laserj
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Queen-Mab_4898.png]\r\n\r\nHi, long-time
    lurker here.\r\nSpent most of this weekend trying to do just what the topic ordered.\r\nTake
    her out for a spin here: http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/1967\r\n\r\nBen
    Townsend Hamm"
  created: '2008-04-09 15:12:21'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Ben, Very Nice!
  created: '2008-04-09 16:41:22'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: You forgot to link to yours, Eben. <a href="http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/exp1_not_complete">Here
    it is</a>.
  created: '2008-04-09 17:44:05'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Thanks! I improved it a bit last night. It has fancy numbers now & a better
    "p" among other things. I will post a new image Thursday.
  created: '2008-04-09 17:47:34'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'A spacing workaround: you can add more left sidebearing by leaving grid spaces
    between your glyph and the left guide. Jordic used this technique on all characters
    to loosen the spacing on his <a href="http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/6885">BB
    Tempo Extended</a>.'
  created: '2008-04-09 17:49:08'
- author:
    name: Kottis
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sansible_3665.png]\r\n\r\nAbout time
    i posted something! Here's my second fontstruction. Too bold for a lot of text,
    but oh well. \r\n\r\n\r\nLink: http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/6962"
  created: '2008-04-09 19:08:25'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: By request, the image size has been changed to 550px in width. This should
    solve the scrollbar issue.
  created: '2008-04-09 19:43:19'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "This is <a href=\"http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/218\">Eerostyle</a>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Eerostyle-type-battle-comp_01_4715.gif]"
  created: '2008-04-09 20:17:22'
- author:
    name: mollymonster
  body: "\"Joe - get your Punchcut boys in here. They have made some excellent text-worthy
    FontStructions.\"\r\n\r\nAnd girls!!  Punchcut has female employees as well. :)"
  created: '2008-04-09 21:56:27'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Sorry Molly! Hadn't seen any of the Punchcut girls on FontStruct, but I could
    be missing someone.
  created: '2008-04-09 22:33:48'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: i am a girl, stewf and you know I am on FontStruct :(
  created: '2008-04-09 22:53:00'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Whoops! And <a href="http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/in_the_queue">in
    the top 10</a> at that! I guess I don't think of Zara as a Punchcutter. Zara is
    her own entity.
  created: '2008-04-09 22:55:15'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/slabstruct_6139.jpg]\r\nThis is <a href=\"http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/11620\">SlabStruct
    Too</a>, an alternate to <a href=\"http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/11253\">SlabStruct</a>.
    Both inspired by Cholla, but I think Too emulates the model better."
  created: '2008-04-10 13:02:00'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Okay, let's get in there quick before I get put off by everybody else's masterpieces!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ubiety_6585.PNG]\r\n\r\nExcuse
    the quality of the image: I'm on a machine that doesn't have access to Photoshop
    or anything useful, so that was straight out of FontStruct's preview window and
    saved through Windows Paint! (ahem...)\r\n\r\nI have slightly narrowed the cap
    S since taking this screen shot.\r\n\r\nLink: [[http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/12566]]\r\n\r\n______________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2008-04-10 13:53:26'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I really need to get back to work, so here is my attempt:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Parae1_3903.png]\r\n\r\nIt's
    got several strikes against it in terms of readability as a text face. Most obviously,
    it's a modern with extreme contrast--so extreme that the horizontal hairlines
    are merely suggested and not actually connected.\r\n\r\nLink: <a href=\"http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/12896\">http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/12896</a>\r\n\r\nStephen,
    Eero Saarinen rocks! And so does Eerostyle--it really seems inspired by Saarinen's
    work. I'm impressed with everyone's work so far."
  created: '2008-04-10 15:57:24'
- author:
    name: meganhill
    picture: 114714
  body: "I NEED TO FIND OUT IF ANY OF YOU HAVE THE \"NEW\" FREE SCRIPT FONT THE NAME
    IS \"FREE SCRIPT\".......IT IS VERY EXPENSIVE AND RIGHT NOW I AM CURRENTLY A STUDENT
    SEEKING A GRAPHIC DESIGNER'S CAREER......I WOULD DEEPLY APPRECIATE IT.....I LOVE
    THAT FONT........\r\nTHANK YOU AND HAVE A GREAT DAY!!\r\n\r\nMEGANHILL"
  created: '2008-04-10 18:28:43'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> Excuse the quality of the image: I\u2019m on a machine that doesn\u2019t
    have access to Photoshop or anything useful, so that was straight out of FontStruct\u2019s
    preview window and saved through Windows Paint! </em>\r\n\r\nHey, clever trick
    - that fuzziness really helps iron out one's diagonals! :-)\r\n\r\nBut seriously,
    Ubiety works really well! Good job, dtw."
  created: '2008-04-10 18:34:22'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "Megan,\r\n\r\nThis isn't the proper thread to be asking those kinds of questions.
    Please read the FAQ on Free Fonts:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/14652\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-10 18:50:39'
- author:
    name: Em42
    picture: 114713
  body: "http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/avenida\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/avenida_5023.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-10 19:02:56'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/11154\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ggothic_6602.001.png]\r\n\r\n<em>EDIT:
    Still tweaking a few things</em>"
  created: '2008-04-10 19:27:30'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "<strong><a href=\"http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/12159\">Hammer+Sickler</a></strong>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/12159\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hammer_sickler_sample_v2_5636.png]</a>\r\n\r\nPermalink:
    http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/12159\r\n\r\nTransliterated
    lyrics from the former Soviet National Anthem.\r\n\r\n<em>Note: The lowercase,
    punctuation and figures are, um, teh suk right now so ignore those.</em>"
  created: '2008-04-10 21:51:51'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "I'm sort of liking how chunky and imperfect this is, in a Rodchenko poster
    kind of way. (All or most of Rodchenko's lettering was hand-drawn). But this still
    has some trouble spots, like the weight of horizontal strokes in the E don't match
    some of the others.\r\n\r\nI think the A needs to descent below the baseline,
    like the Cyrillic D, what do you think?"
  created: '2008-04-10 23:40:47'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: That is truly awesome, I can see it now screenprinted on funky posters in
    limited edition runs, appearing in images on the web held up by designer's fingers.
    I haven't had the chance to look at the tool yet but I'm impressed with everybody's
    efforts.
  created: '2008-04-11 00:46:15'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Here's another one:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bubblewrap_3781.png]\r\n\r\nhttp://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/bubblewrap\r\n\r\nThis
    came out very much like a bitmap font, but with rounded corners. I can't seem
    to figure out how to control the width of the space. It came out very narrow,
    so I had to type two in a row to get an acceptable width when I set the sample
    in Photoshop."
  created: '2008-04-11 06:00:28'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Very nice Mark. By the way, sorry I missed your visit to SF. I was home with
    a sick 5 year old.
  created: '2008-04-11 09:15:03'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "\"Hey, clever trick - that fuzziness really helps iron out one\u2019s diagonals!
    :-)\"\r\n...Good point, Eliason. Yeah, sorry about that. Sort of. :-D\r\n\r\nStill
    like Eben's dotted font: kinda reminiscent of Rian Hughes' [[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/device/monitor/|Monitor]]
    but more readable without having to stand well back.\r\n\r\n______________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2008-04-11 09:23:00'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: '@Joe: Likewise. Sorry to have missed you.'
  created: '2008-04-11 13:53:10'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: Mmmm, now that works.
  created: '2008-04-11 16:55:55'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/leiria_2_5654.gif]\r\nruD\r\n\r\n{Edit:
    forgot to link you up! [[http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/2358|Leiria
    is here]].}"
  created: '2008-04-11 16:57:02'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/structbtf_6138.PNG]\r\n\r\nHere's my
    ever-so-cruddy contribution to this thread. I'm not going to vouch for anything
    about it other than that I had a tonne of fun making it! Oh, and having used the
    mighty Windoze paint to create the PNG, the anti-aliasing is screwed up. Best
    bet is to look at the original.\r\n\r\n[[http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/btf_struct|You
    can find the original here.]]"
  created: '2008-04-11 18:08:35'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: 'ruben: THAT IS AWESOME! I knew mine was crap but I didn''t know just how
    crap it was until I saw yours...'
  created: '2008-04-11 18:17:34'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "Oops\u2026 I meant \xAB\u2026 worked OUT great!\xBB Damned typos! :D\r\n\r\nThank
    you very much, metalfoot. :)\r\n\r\nruD"
  created: '2008-04-11 19:02:15'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "Eben's is quite good, and the effect that you get with Joe Pemberton's kicks
    ass. I'm hoping to see something created on Fontstruct that may become the new
    Helvetica or the new Caslon\u2026 xD\r\n\r\nNo, serious. I'd really like that.\r\n\r\nruD"
  created: '2008-04-11 19:15:30'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Joe, that design is brutal!
  created: '2008-04-11 20:04:37'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Ruben - love your ampersand and especially your asterisk!
  created: '2008-04-11 20:37:01'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Usually when I hear brutal in reference to design it means you're bleeding
    out of your eyes. Can you clarify? =)
  created: '2008-04-11 21:35:06'
- author:
    name: theterrible
    picture: 111271
  body: I'd not tried setting [[http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/175|Struktur]]
    in a paragraph yet, and this reminded me of how much FontStruct needs some metrics
    control. I added a few ligatures to help with some of the spacing issues (and
    for extra coolness factor!). Stewf, the left sidebearing trick only works in the
    FontStruct preview, not in the actually font, unfortunately.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/struktur_5788.png]
  created: '2008-04-11 21:54:15'
- author:
    name: t80
    picture: 110880
  body: ":)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/strukt_3464.png]\r\n\r\nhttp://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/2483"
  created: '2008-04-11 22:57:49'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: "Hooray!\r\n\r\nThe name will probably change; I was running short on creativity.\r\n\r\nhttp://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/13136\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SqureSlabSample_6733.png]\r\n\r\nEdit:
    apparently I forgot to turn off spell-check. Oh, well."
  created: '2008-04-12 03:05:05'
- author:
    name: Em42
    picture: 114713
  body: "Just noticing how a lot of sets look flawless in paragraph (Eric's, Dmitry's
    and Ruben's just to mention the last ones), a thing you can't tell just by examining
    the fonts in FontStruct display. \r\n\r\nReally surprised by what I'm seeing here!
    Bravo to all!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2008-04-12 12:19:13'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I will have to get my revisions down & set a new proper sort of paragraph
    to see how it compares. This has been a good type battle. I think Rueben's design
    might make a nice "real" outline font - in the right hands. It has a lovely ampersand.
  created: '2008-04-12 17:14:34'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "*crossing my fingers hoping I've got the right hands*\r\n\r\nI've been considering
    that, Eben. Do you think it should completely echo what it looks like on this
    level or do you think it should have quirks of its own on the outline level, when
    there's a lot more \"pixels\" to fill?\r\nI've been thinking: is there a way to
    embed bitmap fonts onto a regular font? Because I'd like to be able to control
    hinting on regular outline faces the way you'd make a pixel font and make different
    typefaces altogether for different screen sizes that would be embedded into the
    original outline font file\u2026\r\n\r\nOh, and thanks! To Em42 and eliason, too.
    :)\r\n\r\nruD"
  created: '2008-04-12 18:24:19'
- author:
    name: laserj
  body: Eben's and Ruben's are magical, I've gotta say.
  created: '2008-04-12 18:41:11'
- author:
    name: Fredrik
    picture: 110755
  body: "A modest attempt at some kind of bodoni-esque face. Never made a typeface,
    so fontstructor was lots of fun. I have just fulfilled the minimum - lc - so far.\r\nLink:
    http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/15332\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bo-construtor2_4921.png]"
  created: '2008-04-12 20:26:25'
- author:
    name: Hofweber
    picture: 114098
  body: "Procrastination spurred this typeface with which I spent very little time.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/windsongdisplay_6225.png]\r\naand
    that's not even showing up. I'll fix this later."
  created: '2008-04-13 02:45:15'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Some of these remind me of the old bitmap fonts on the original Macintosh.
    Kottis's is Chicago and Ruben's is New York.
  created: '2008-04-13 05:16:15'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Do you think it should completely echo what it looks like on this
    level </cite>\r\n\r\nIt doesn't have to no, and it is probably not a good idea
    actually. There does need to be a relationship for sure but what that is precisely
    is better determined by how it would look in outlines and in print. It's a tough
    thing to do if you have never done it but it might be rewarding/fun too."
  created: '2008-04-13 05:50:55'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Thanks Ben!
  created: '2008-04-13 05:52:24'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Dmitri, I love that lowercase. Lots of great stuff here. And even more gems
    at FontStruct. Great way to end the Battle for the week.\r\n\r\nJames, I know
    I'm getting old. In my day brutal meant punishingly uncomfortable.\r\n\r\nAnd,
    I have to point you to the Punchcut crew at FontStruct. Look for commandzed (Zara),
    nathancox (Nathan), b boy stylez (Justin), garphynk (Gareth) and sorry Molly,
    I don't know your user name. \r\n\r\nStewf, looking forward to future generations
    of FontStruct. Kudos for such an innovative product. I had a moment of joy when
    I downloaded my FontStruction (free) and installed it with Linotype's FontExplorer
    (also free). "
  created: '2008-04-13 07:46:25'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "Eh eh, Fontstruct is so much fun. I didn't know about such a \xA1 awesome
    ! toy.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Carpien_5884.png]\r\n\r\nIf
    you want to look at it with more detail:\r\n\r\nhttp://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/14322\r\n\r\nHe
    he. Andr\xE9\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-13 14:20:06'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<a href=http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/5char>5char</a>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/5char_4104.png]\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-04-14 02:01:36'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "Yeah, thanks, laserj! \"Magical\" certainly is a great compliment! Maybe
    even a bit of an overstatement\u2026 :P\r\n\r\nBo constructor is looking pretty
    good in a paragraph, Fredrik.\r\n\r\n\r\nruD"
  created: '2008-04-14 14:44:22'
- author:
    name: kyrmse
    picture: 112387
  body: "Ruben:\r\nSua fonte Leiria \xE9 coisa de profissional, e \xE9 dif\xEDcil
    acreditar que seja montada com FontStruct. Gostaria de \"adot\xE1-la\" para meu
    uso. Os algarismos \"elzevirianos\" (\xE9 assim que se diz?) s\xE3o espl\xEAndidos.
    S\xF3 me faz falta - para escrever em alem\xE3o - o eszett (\xDF). Parab\xE9ns
    aqui do Brasil!\r\nYour Leiria font is professional work, and it is hard to believe
    it was assembled with FontStruct. I would like to \"adopt\" it for my use. The
    old-style figures are splendid. For me it only lacks - in order to write in German
    - the eszett (\xDF). Congratulations here from Brasil!\r\nRonald  Kyrmse\r\nronald.info.ms"
  created: '2008-04-14 14:45:48'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "Obrigado, Ronald! I'm glad you like it. :)\r\n\r\nI didn't even know the
    word \"elzeviriano\", but I just checked and it does exist; it refers to the characters
    used by the Elzevirs, apparently \u2013 whom I'd never heard of\u2026 \u2014,
    but I don't really know if that's how you'd refer to oldstyle figures. Most of
    what I've learned about typography is in english, so I don't even know the portuguese
    words for most things\u2026 in fact, I'm so used to hearing and reading english
    that sometimes I have a hard time thinking in portuguese. :P Not that I can't
    communicate in portuguese, though.\r\n\r\nAnyway, your wish is my command! The
    eszett is done. Tell me what you think of it, because I'm not used to it and I've
    never drawn one before, so I'm not sure if it's ok\u2026\r\n\r\nruD"
  created: '2008-04-14 15:35:21'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "I just tried it. It probably needs a larger eye, doesn't it? The bottom curve
    gets a bit too dark\u2026 anyway, tell me what you think. :)"
  created: '2008-04-14 15:39:04'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "Corrected it, think it's ok, now.\r\n\r\nruD"
  created: '2008-04-14 15:53:21'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Zara just reminded me, this Battle isn't over until Tuesday. So, um, git 'er
    done.
  created: '2008-04-14 19:59:35'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Workin' on that kerning... You never did say if that was a-cheatin'...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-14 22:13:08'
- author:
    name: Natecox
    picture: 113063
  body: "Uniball Serif: http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/9974\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Uniball_5921.jpg]\r\n.
    \ .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
    \ .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .\r\n\r\nBONUS:
    Can anyone guess where the name Uniball comes from?"
  created: '2008-04-14 23:22:08'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Very Nice indeed.
  created: '2008-04-14 23:29:36'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "Nate, Uniball's sweet! Congratulations! Uniball\u2026 they make pens, right?\r\n\r\nruD"
  created: '2008-04-15 00:13:17'
- author:
    name: Natecox
    picture: 113063
  body: '@ruben: Thanks. And yes Uni-ball is a pen brand but it''s not the whole story
    behind the name.'
  created: '2008-04-15 00:20:29'
- author:
    name: mollymonster
  body: "See, a tool so simple that a project manager can use it!\r\nhttp://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/15551\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/chickensample_3626.png]"
  created: '2008-04-15 02:41:31'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Revised EXP \r\n\r\nThe lower case is kerned now and has complete serifs
    but the upper case is not done.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/exp2_3527.png]"
  created: '2008-04-15 06:13:43'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "I'd change one or two things \u2013 I think the hyphen needs to be a bit
    lower, for example \u2013, but otherwise, that looks great, Eben. :) Isn't it
    a bit too tight, though?\r\n\r\nruD"
  created: '2008-04-15 12:31:41'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "Those serifs really help with the spacing/kerning on a pixel level, geez\u2026
    I had to mangle some of the letterforms so the final kerning wouldn't be so terrible\u2026
    so this really isn't Leiria Sans as I initially intended it to be. I called it
    Leiria Bad Sans Informal; with this name, it's actually not bad. :P\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/leiriaSANS_6063.gif]\r\n{Edit:
    forgot the link, again\u2026 [[http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/17753|Leiria
    Bad Sans Informal]].}\r\nruD"
  created: '2008-04-15 12:34:35'
- author:
    name: kyrmse
    picture: 112387
  body: "Nate: Of course Uniball is an anagram of Lubalin!\r\nRonald  Kyrmse\r\nronald.info.ms"
  created: '2008-04-15 14:20:49'
- author:
    name: kyrmse
    picture: 112387
  body: "Ruben: Thanks for the eszett! Obrigado -\r\nRonald  Kyrmse\r\nronald.info.ms"
  created: '2008-04-15 14:27:28'
- author:
    name: t80
    picture: 110880
  body: "Lexip\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lexip_5781.png]\r\n\r\nA: http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/15694\r\nB:
    http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/16435"
  created: '2008-04-15 17:23:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Ruben I tried it wider. I think I would end up deciding depending on how
    big or small it was going to be viewed. In metal type the spaces between letters
    get bigger as the font get smaller. Here is EXP2 suited to smaller settings. Now
    with Caps. And a fixed Hyphen.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/exptest3_4750.png]"
  created: '2008-04-15 17:29:17'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "It might be fun to kern this for optical & print rather than grid & screen
    based purposes... \r\n\r\nAnd maybe make some contextual shapes. :-) the \"r+a\"
    looks good. The \"s+a or m+a\" could use an extra small dot on the end of upper
    left arm. Milan needs fixing (M+i)  "
  created: '2008-04-15 17:46:28'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "Quote.\r\nI guess the competition have got'em dotted out by Eben's  font.
    LaserJ font gives me some ideas and question is, can I use it for free? Learning
    as a Unique Individual seems fun and I vote for it to be used only in 72 pt or
    up. Eero Saarinen is unknown to me but it actually could end up used on a architect
    business card. SlabStruct Too is awesome and makes me cry, as I lost a slab serif
    to a melted hard drive ;;;-). The Mole is still working and \"O blowed\"(ed) my
    had off... Jongseong Modulern also works great in 3 inches size :-) The Avenida
    do Senhor de quarenta e dois anos est\xE1 \xE0 medida and I wonder if sua Illvstr\xEDssima
    Vosmic\xEAncia n\xE1o ser\xE1 un heter\xF3nimo deveras fort\xEDssimo... I did
    indeed required a backup plan before the fall of that hard drive and I excuse
    myself but I get to say I would like to make a recut of it but shaded to fit it
    in a cartel espa\xF1olo, As for the Hammer+Sikler it is a marvelosity with wrong
    reading R\xB4s, hehe. Bublewrap appears to have been sketched before proceeding
    to moving the blocks in place. Leiria which was never meant to be so large or
    small has already been targeted to be noqued asap. Metalfoot's font would work
    great if plated from 24 points and up. The Terrible thing is that I love back
    letter. T80\xB4s cyrillic paragraph looks like hieroglyphs to me but the readable
    part actually collects my sympathy for the sinking \"i\". Hooray Doc Dr, I guess
    you gave me a idea: I will include the spell checker red dots in all of my typos
    and the \"W\" is evi-lish plus stylish. Bo Constructor is a PIXdoni of elevated
    stature and therefore extrim good at larger sizes. Hofwebber\xB4s fast creation
    so far is awesome when used as 10 inches sizes. AGL's (who is this guy Anthony?)
    is a effort dimmed by a prosthetic hand. Thank God the text is not mine ;) Russelin
    5char looks very cool; to be complete the puzzle I would ad a swastika ornament.
    Natecox Unibal Serif will be download know. Mollymonter\xB4s chickens actually
    are looking at ya. Eben's Revised EXP has got a small cap kern treatment and the
    text is good (where does it come from?). And to complete this comment Leiria Sans
    Is not bad at all, I will not try to predict if it will remain untouched...\r\nUnquote.\r\n\r\n<strong>\xA1
    Hehe !</strong>\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2008-04-15 18:14:08'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "And here I thought I was the only one with nothing better to do, Andr\xE9!
    :P\r\n\r\nThose anagrams always slip right by me! You're right, Ronald! And you're
    quite welcome. :)\r\n\r\nLexip and Lexip B would be great if it wasn't for that
    pesky spacing problem\u2026 I hope they come up with some sort of spacing control
    that allows us to better fontstruct soon.\r\n\r\nAnd you're right, Eben; it would
    depend on whether we used it for display purposes or for running text. But I do
    seem to have a tendency to always kern everything on the wide side\u2026 (this
    reminded me of that song: \u201CHey, babe\u2026 kern the face on the wide side\u2026\u201D)\r\nAnyway,
    that's a tough kerning job you've got there (not that there are many easy ones,
    I guess).\r\n\r\nOverall, I think I'd vote for Uniball (and it rhymes, too).\r\n\r\nruD"
  created: '2008-04-15 19:03:04'
- author:
    name: Natecox
    picture: 113063
  body: Ronald wins. Uniball is indeed an anagram for Lubalin. I knew if anyone could
    decipher and appreciate a lame type nerd anagram joke it would be Typophiles.
  created: '2008-04-15 19:20:25'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "Nice stuff, everyone! \r\n\r\nA new battle has just been posted: http://www.typophile.com/battle22\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-15 19:51:40'
- author:
    name: Fredrik
    picture: 110755
  body: I think there's some very nice work been done here. My vote would go to Eben
    (cleverly managing to get both the first and last words... ) or Mark's Bubblewrap,
    as I think they make excellent use of - while highlighting - the modular structure
    of our new favourite online app. I'm hooked.
  created: '2008-04-15 20:53:53'
date: '2008-04-08 22:47:33'
title: 'Type Battle 21: FontStruct'

---
