---
author:
  name: blank
body: "As a student, something I encounter often is the notion that whenever possible
  long sections of text should be broken up with lots of invented section breaks.
  The justification for this is usually something along the lines of \u201Cpeople
  don\u2019t like to read\u201D or \u201Dnobody wants to look at all that text.\u201D
  As someone who has always enjoyed thick books with no pictures, I find these notions
  irritating and even offensive; I feel that the continuous success of mammoth books
  from popular authors like Stephen King and J.K. Rowling make it pretty clear that
  people really don\u2019t need someone else chopping reading into smaller chunks.
  \r\n\r\nIs there really a good typographic reason for breaking text up more often
  than authors and editors might want? Or is this just a tendency of design professors
  and writers to throw in extra flourishes (and live vicariously through student work)?
  Or is it all just part of the trend of dumbing down some areas of popular culture?"
comments:
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: Well, different media have different purposes. If someone wants to read a
    book, they'll pick up a book they want to read, and they'll read it from beginning
    to end. Something like a magazine article or an advertisement is trying to hold
    the attention of a reader who may not be particularly interested in the subject
    matter and is eager to skip ahead to the next thing. The designer has to try to
    coax the reader into taking a closer look, or, failing that, to get the reader
    to absorb some of the intended message just by skimming it before turning the
    page.
  created: '2008-04-11 15:54:44'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Or is this just a tendency of design professors and writers to throw
    in extra flourishes</cite>\r\n\r\nProbably. I remember a design professor on a
    panel at a national meeting who said it was the designer's responsibility to challenge
    and excite the reader.\r\n\r\nI stood up in the Q&A session & said that if a designer
    wanted to \"challenge\" or \"excite\" a reader, he/she should write a book; those
    were the author's prerogatives. He replied \"Of course. The designer should check
    with the author.\" Perhaps fine advice in school; almost never happens in the
    real world. Should something like that be needed, it will be the editor, in conversation
    with the author, who makes the decision.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-11 16:07:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Magazines often do the \"break up big blocks\" thing for differing reasons
    as Cerulean mentioned. Also, magazines are often read in spurts on subway commutes
    and doctor's offices. Having stopping points may be an advantage for such uses.
    The New Yorker is more likely to run long text because it is a readers magazine
    and the writing is usually quite a bit better than the lifestyle mags that promote
    \"10 things your husband really wants (in bed)\" or \"101 best bars to pick up
    babes\". Magazines also have plenty of ads and jumps so the reader gets visually
    jolted around and has to resettle himself with cues like subheads.\r\nBooks that
    are more a reference than a novel need subheads so that a person can find the
    section they are looking for easier. Things like \"Linkage adjustments on the
    1967 Plymouth Fury\" may help the scanning gearhead find what he needs.\r\n\r\n
    ChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-11 16:19:31'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "As Cerulean said, it's all about the context. No, you don't want to break
    up novel unless you are Jonathan Safran Foer or Dave Eggers. The New York Review
    of Books and The New Yorker get along just fine with a bare minimum of breaks
    and/or flourishes. That wouldn't work so well with Lucky or Us Magazines. The
    main thing is to recognize who your readership is going to be and what is going
    to best work for them. There are no hard and fast rules.\r\n\r\nWhen you get out
    into the real world, it is pretty rare for a designer or art director to overrule
    an editor when it comes to matters of text. You have to have a very good reason
    for doing it beyond \"it will look cool\". The last thing an editor or author
    wants to think is that \"people don't like to read\".\r\n\r\nI get pissed when
    I think the designer is being hostile to the text, as in a lot of Phaidon art
    books where the text is treated as a design element and frequently not so easy
    on the eyes. But from what I understand that is a rare instance of the art director
    getting to call the shots (as an editor there has told me)."
  created: '2008-04-11 16:21:10'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "I have a related question. I lay out a lot for web and frequently there will
    be very small columns of text in which there a lot of word breaks. Account people
    alllllways make me move the words down the next line and a lot of the time it
    looks horrible.\r\nIs is really that bad to have a few word breaks? I'm talking
    in body copy, not headlines. Especially in French when the words on average twice
    as long?"
  created: '2008-04-11 16:27:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I should have added above that in 45 years as a designer, I have never had
    an editor or client ask me to put subsections into their text. If they want it,
    they write it that way themselves.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-11 16:27:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Haley,\r\nOn the web, do you really have control over wordbreaks? I would
    think this would be tough unless every reader had the same setup.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-11 16:29:48'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Haley - you don't really have complete control over how the viewer will see
    your text, if it's html text. As I understand it that is. I tried breaking the
    text on my site to suit my typography needs and when viewed in different browsers,
    on different systems, it reragged terribly. This is one reason I'm not wild about
    web design - I'm too used to being a control freak for that.
  created: '2008-04-11 16:56:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Is there really a good typographic reason for breaking text up more often
    than authors and editors might want?</em>\r\n\r\nIf you disagree with the principles
    you are being taught, you could survey current practice and see what is normal
    in different genres.  Standard practice may not be aesthetically or theoretically
    pleasing to those who stop to think about it, such as educators, but at the very
    least it is highly readable to its audience--it has evolved to be the way it is
    through a process of natural selection in large cultural systems. It wouldn't
    look like it does if it didn't work.\r\n\r\n<em>Is is really that bad to have
    a few word breaks?</em>\r\n\r\nNot if it's better than having lines of wildy varying
    length.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-11 16:57:34'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: ">>\r\nI tried breaking the text on my site to suit my typography needs and
    when viewed in different browsers, on different systems, it reragged terribly.\r\n<<\r\n\r\nYes,
    listen to Pattie, please. If you insert < BR > , you'll get horrid results on
    other browser, other screen sizes, other OSs, etc. \r\nNothing good can come of
    this!\r\n\r\nUnless you're composing text in flash, or as graphics?"
  created: '2008-04-11 17:48:00'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "<em>I stood up in the Q&A session & said that if a designer wanted to \u201Cchallenge\u201D
    or \u201Cexcite\u201D a reader, he/she should write a book; those were the author\u2019s
    prerogatives. </em>\r\n\r\nHas anyone read Chip Kidd's \"the Cheese Monkeys?\"
    I'm sure most know who he is, but in case not, he's pretty much designed every
    novel cover in the past 10 years. He wrote the book and designed the type layout
    as well. Talk about small blocks of text and white space. I think it made the
    book seem twice as long as it really was:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kidd_6389.jpg]"
  created: '2008-04-11 21:13:27'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: "Chipman: I love that book, but don't remember the column being quite so narrow
    - is this from the larger or smaller hardback?  Years ago, I read it in a version
    that was a nice big book, but I just got one out from the library that is almost
    2 inches smaller in both dimensions.  Am curious if you've seen both....\r\n\r\n---\r\neeblet.com"
  created: '2008-04-11 23:41:43'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "The only one I've seen is this paperback. Not sure if the hardcover had this
    feature or not: There is also printing that does not appear here on the last 16th
    of the outside edge (bleeds off) . When you bend the outside edge one way it reads
    \"good is dead\" or \"do you see?\" if you bend it the other.\r\n\r\nI think the
    smaller pages allowed for more places to stop, as well as for the reader to feel
    slightly more intelligent, that he could read a whole book so quickly. The white
    space was however almost the same real-estate as the text itself. I'd be interested
    to see the other version(s).\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-12 00:57:39'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: In editorial design for non-profit agencies, their annual reports and related
    promo pieces tend to be text-heavy. We cannot assume readers are willing to read
    the text, so designers use a variety of intermediate devices that either sell
    the piece or convey the main points without reading body copy--two-tier headlines
    (teaser big, info line smaller), pull quotes, section sub-heads, interesting captions.
    These devices supplement the main text by super-imposing a kind of outline that
    the reader grasps at a glance. The client wins when the reader gets the message
    so easily, or at least, when he gets the impression the agency is support-worthy,
    which is all the agency really needs. This is the justification for using such
    devices to sell text; in magazines it serves the same function. There's no reason
    to spurn this method, it's just a question of how intelligently you use the devices
    available.
  created: '2008-04-12 07:36:20'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "<em> Or is this just a tendency of design professors and writers to throw
    in extra flourishes (and live vicariously through student work)? Or is it all
    just part of the trend of dumbing down some areas of popular culture?</em>\r\n\r\nAnother
    cliche of Design Professors is that it is the job of the designer to challenge
    preconceptions, or challenge something, at any rate.\r\n\r\nI think this is mostly
    design professors wanting to make the designer a tool of their own frustrated
    political activism \u2014 whether it conduces with the author's intention or not.
    \"Break up the text, insert more pictorial elements\" is often a disguised way
    of saying that high literary culture is a thing of the past and good riddens to
    it. It goes along with unsubstantiated nonsense about 5 minute attention spans."
  created: '2008-04-12 08:05:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I can now imagine an internet site for design professors ranting about their
    students in the same way as we see here in the other direction :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-12 13:34:51'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Most comments here have been referring to the practice as creating <em>breaking</em>
    points. But another way of looking at this sort of thing is creating <em>entry</em>
    points. And, as has been stated repeatedly, it all depends upon the material,
    the audience, and the environment. \r\n\r\nCertain types of material (magazines
    or annual reports, for instance) do benefit from multiple entry points. A reader
    scanning a magazine may not be attracted by the headline or the topic, but might
    get hooked in through a photo and caption, or a pull-quote, or a subhead, and
    before they know it they're actually reading the text. Mission accomplished.\r\n\r\nFiction
    and other sustained narrative genres do not necessarily need these sorts of hooks,
    and in fact can be disrupted by the practice. \r\n\r\nMy experience is that good
    authors, editors, copywriters, etc., understand their genre and the tools of their
    trade. As such, the text will reflect what's appropriate and the designer should
    look for cues from the text and the editor. \r\n\r\nI have worked in environments
    where it is collaborative and I can make suggestions to the editor, knowing that
    we're both after the same thing. But that's different than a blanket statement
    that says design should always try to break up text and enliven the page; context
    is everything. \r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-12 15:38:16'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: "<em>A reader scanning a magazine...might get hooked in through a photo and
    caption, or a pull-quote, or a subhead, and before they know it they\u2019re actually
    reading the text. Mission accomplished.</em>\r\n\r\nExactly, Kent, thank you.
    These \"step-down\" devices are needed in a crowded, distracted environment like
    a magazine, or when a one-purpose publication (like an annual report) crosses
    a busy desk and needs to win that reader's attention. \r\n\r\nThere are tasteful
    ways to use such devices in books too; I've done it successfully. Don't spurn
    the method, just make intelligent use of it."
  created: '2008-04-12 16:28:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>good authors, editors, copywriters, etc., understand their genre and
    the tools of their trade.</em>\r\n\r\nDavid Ogilvie addresses the issue of layout
    in \"Ogilvy on Advertising\". I always recall his tactic, that if it really is
    impossible to connect, by means of coherent grammar, the points that need to be
    made in a passage of text, then write it in list form, preferably numbered."
  created: '2008-04-12 16:44:44'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I can now imagine an internet site for design professors ranting about
    their students\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s what classrooms are for. There\u2019s
    nothing like a frustrated design professor who can\u2019t understand why his or
    her students aren\u2019t interested in typography that defies logic and reason. "
  created: '2008-04-12 17:29:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "James,\r\nWe all have had a teacher or two who has not been inspiring or
    even downright worthless. Teachers can say the same about some of their students.
    I hope in your time as a student that there have been enough good teachers to
    push you along and get you to become self-inspired and excited about your chosen
    field. Teaching is a tough arena with an awesome responsibility. Being a student
    also brings with it great responsibility. I don't know much about Corcoran but
    I hope all-in-all that you have gained something valuable in your time there.
    I would be curious to know what in particular frustrates you about your professors.
    It has been years since I taught but I still think I could learn something from
    today's design school issues.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-12 18:33:05'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "I don't think that the professors are telling you that you have free reign
    to go all crazy on the text, but the way we get our information now is in concise
    little fragments from the internet or magazines (when I say we, i think the younger
    one is, the more true this statement is). Society (at least the USA) has been
    bred to have ADD to somehow process more different forms of information in smaller
    bits. I'm not normally a condoner of Noam Chomsky, but he has some good arguments
    about \"concision,\" and not only how it's dumbing us down, but actually making
    us less informed. I guess  that's a little more of a political issue and less
    typographic though. Sorry for the tangent.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-12 18:34:47'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'Chris, overall my professors are both excellent and inspiring. But I do feel
    like some design teachers see design school as a place where students should be
    doing crazy things that they could never get away with in commercial work, and
    some students are really interested in learning how to do things that would make
    for great commercial work. It creates some nasty tension at times. '
  created: '2008-04-12 19:16:58'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: "Sorry to hijack the thread back to Cheese Monkeys...\r\n\r\n<em>I think the
    smaller pages allowed for more places to stop, as well as for the reader to feel
    slightly more intelligent, that he could read a whole book so quickly. The white
    space was however almost the same real-estate as the text itself. I\u2019d be
    interested to see the other version(s).</em>\r\n\r\nChipman, I think the design
    is very much in service of the text here.  I re-read the Cheese Monkeys last night,
    and find that the stilted, alienated narrator's vignettes make the short sections
    the only logical choice.  As far as having lots of white-space, I find that it
    just makes the book much easier to read - none of my usual reading headaches.
    \ :)\r\n\r\n\r\n---\r\neeblet.com"
  created: '2008-04-13 20:42:23'
- author:
    name: Thomas Levine
    picture: 112734
  body: "What I'm about to say has mostly been said already, but I'd like explain
    the reasoning more thoroughly.\r\n\r\n<em>How to Read a Book</em> recommends essentially
    that books be read in multiple progressively longer and in-depth rounds. First,
    you read things like the introduction, conclusion and table of contents to get
    an idea of the <strong>structure</strong>. Second, you skim the book by reading
    only the important sentences. You do this to get a more detailed idea of <strong>structure</strong>,
    to get something of the book and to determine whether to read it in more depth.
    Third, if it's worth reading in more depth, you read it front to back, and forthly,
    you may go into extreme detail through things like outlining.\r\n\r\nParagraph
    breaks identify the important sentences; the first and last sentences ofa paragraph
    are generally more important than the middle sentences. <strong>Lack of necessary
    breaks and presence of unnecessary breaks both make skimming the book more difficult.</strong>\r\n\r\nOnly
    a complete idiot would break paragraphs completely arbitrarily, so I hope there's
    some justification (hehe) for the breaks. If you find that some of the breaks
    are more important than others, it would certainly help to have a hierarchy of
    breaks.\r\n\r\nNovels are sort of an exception because they are difficult to skim
    like that. Or maybe I just feel like that because I don't really like reading
    them. <em>How to Read a Book</em> still recommends steps equivalent to the steps
    for general reading, but I don't think it expects people to skim the book in the
    same way."
  created: '2008-04-13 21:44:41'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: "I read several dozen books a month, and would never dream of reading a book
    that way (unless it's a reference book or manual).... To each her own.  :)\r\n\r\nForm
    should follow function - we agree on that.  If the text and context calls for
    lots of white space and breaks, great.  If not, great.  I don't think there's
    much of a debate!\r\n\r\n---\r\neeblet.com"
  created: '2008-04-13 23:39:21'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>How to Read a Book recommends essentially that books be read in multiple
    progressively longer and in-depth rounds.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis sounds nuts to me. "
  created: '2008-04-14 01:11:31'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: ">How to Read a Book recommends essentially that books be read in multiple
    progressively longer and in-depth rounds.\r\n\r\nObviously not to be confused
    with Pierre Bayard's <em>How to Talk About Books You Haven't Read</em>."
  created: '2008-04-14 01:22:25'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Jeez. I'll admit is was back in the dark ages of the 1960s, but when I read
    books in college, I read them once, and slowly. No music or radio in the background.
    Yes, there was TV then, but a student couldn't have a private set. No problem,
    couldn't afford one anyway. \r\n\r\nSeemed to work."
  created: '2008-04-14 01:31:45'
- author:
    name: Thomas Levine
    picture: 112734
  body: "Part of the reason for reading the books that way is to determine whether
    to continue.\r\n\r\nThe first two rounds are quite fast, and you aren't supposed
    to get to the last round very often.\r\n\r\nI don't follow <em>How to Read a Book</em>'s
    recommendations so strictly; normally I read the introduction, summary, conclusion
    and table of contents and only skim the parts I don't feel like reading more thoroughly.
    Part of this is because I rarely read in long sittings; I normally read in breaks
    between other things.\r\n\r\nAlso, note that I hardly ever read fiction."
  created: '2008-04-14 02:22:27'
- author:
    name: typosapien
  body: You are right. Long sections of text are best set in one line and there is
    absolutely no need for anybody to sprinkle it with any of those sweeteners like
    chapters, paragraphs, or sentences! Now, if you will excuse me, I have to get
    back to unfurling my Harry Potter scroll.
  created: '2008-04-14 02:54:37'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: "typosapien - heh!\r\n\r\nI never abandon books, I just always finish them
    regardless of their quality (not a great habit), but I recently had to abandon
    an old paperback cheap edition of a classic novel (uh, can't remember which one)
    because the leading and margins were so stingy.  A scroll might have been more
    reader-friendly.\r\n\r\n---\r\neeblet.com"
  created: '2008-04-14 03:07:31'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>You are right. Long sections of text are best set in one line and there
    is absolutely no need for anybody to sprinkle it with any of those sweeteners
    like chapters, paragraphs, or sentences! Now, if you will excuse me, I have to
    get back to unfurling my Harry Potter scroll.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think if you reread
    this thread, it might occur to you that the topic is not whether a book should
    have chapters, section breaks, etc., but whether these are the prerogative of
    the author & editor, or the designer.\r\n\r\nI imagine if you stated mucking around
    with Rawlings organization of the text, you'd wind up being thrown to the trolls."
  created: '2008-04-14 04:00:35'
- author:
    name: typosapien
  body: "This is the topic as I have read it: my teacher sucks and I am looking for
    someone to agree with me. \r\n\r\nTeacher-bashing is lame, but doing it online
    is just plain pathetic. \r\n\r\nIf you want a straight answer for this post, here
    it is: trust what you know, try different things, and keep at it until you think
    it looks and feels right for what you are designing. If you do not know if it
    looks or feels \u201Cright\u201D ask the art director\u2014or in your case the
    professor. They might have the experience and the know-how to help solve the problem.\r\n\r\n\r\nNow
    lay that out in inDesign, stuff it in your pipe, and smoke it."
  created: '2008-04-14 06:47:22'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>This is the topic as I have read it: my teacher sucks and I am looking
    for someone to agree with me.</cite>\r\n\r\nI read it the way Charles did, and
    I do think that a teacher who is trying to empower his students to override editors
    and authors is sending a bunch of kids out into the world that nobody will hire
    or want to keep on staff long.\r\n\r\nI have an innate distrust of anyone who
    tries to lay down hard and fast design rules irrespective of context."
  created: '2008-04-14 16:42:38'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "True Story. I have a friend who was a teacher. This friend assigned a magazine
    project to her students. Within the guidelines my friend asked that they include
    the bar code. A few of the students went over this teacher's head to the department
    head and complained that the bar code would ruin their design. Who won this battle?
    The students. The teacher was told to not worry about the bar code. :^/ So basically
    the students were out a good challenge that would've helped them grow.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-14 17:07:34'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Tiffany, that is exactly why as an Art Director I took graduate students'
    portfolios with a huge grain of salt. \r\n\r\nThat said, I think that whoever
    invented the barcode should be placed in a cell and forced to listen to the dial-up
    modem sound for the rest of his life."
  created: '2008-04-14 18:02:06'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: I like Emigre's solution to the barcode on their later issues, placing it
    directly in the middle of the cover (i've seen several other publications do this
    as well). It drew attention to what violator of form it is by making it part of
    the composition. I guess i'm getting a bit off-topic, but I think it speaks the
    same for making lemonade when the copywriter/author hands you lemons.
  created: '2008-04-14 19:28:14'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Tiffany: Wow, what an incredibly dumb department head. Based on other stories
    I've heard, I'm suspecting that maybe I know who the friend is, too....\r\n\r\nThomas:
    Well, that advice for \"how to read a book\" might make sense for certain types
    of nonfiction books, but certainly not for novels, and probably not for biographies
    or histories either.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-04-15 02:26:19'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Pattyfab, you've been Twitter'd. http://twitter.com/Typophile
  created: '2008-04-15 07:43:42'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Ha! That's funny! Does that mean I'm famous?\r\n\r\nI so don't understand
    the point of Twitter tho."
  created: '2008-04-15 14:53:44'
date: '2008-04-11 15:14:00'
node_type: forum
title: Good typography, interfering designers, or just dumbing down?

---
