---
author:
  name: jevans4
  picture: 110960
body: "Hello all, first-time poster, though I've been a subscriber for awhile. I am
  teaching my Typography II class FontLab basics in order to create their own typeface.
  A student asked if they could start from an existing typeface and make changes to
  create their own font. I didn't have an answer to this ethical dilemma so I'm turning
  to you for help. What do you say, Typophiles? \r\n\r\nMany thanks for your feedback!"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "1. Legally, check the font licence (EULA) to see what is permissable, as
    this varies with different foundries.\r\n\r\n2. From an educational perspective,
    the merit of mashing up other people's work into something you can call your own
    is somewhat dubious. Sure, cut and paste is a bona fide part of digital media,
    and has been canonized in faces such as Dead History, Fudoni, etc., but it's not
    the best place to start when you're learning. Drawing glyphs in a BCP application
    is the basic skill of font making."
  created: '2008-04-13 19:25:35'
- author:
    name: jevans4
    picture: 110960
  body: Nick, thanks for your input. The class has been working with hand-drawn type
    as well as characters drawn in Illustrator so I was hoping the students would
    opt for creating something of their own design. I will dissuade them from the
    "cut and paste" strategy for this project, thanks.
  created: '2008-04-13 19:31:21'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "There is also this AIGA <a href=\"http://www.aiga.org/resources/content/3/5/9/6/documents/aiga_2fonts_07.pdf\">.pdf</a>
    resource available.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-13 19:44:25'
- author:
    name: jevans4
    picture: 110960
  body: Thanks AS, this is a great resource!
  created: '2008-04-13 19:50:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Julie,\r\nI think it would send the wrong message to your students to allow
    them to start with another persons work. It also does not teach them much about
    drawing type. It might be more instructive for them if they were to try making
    a FontLab drawing of their own hand drawn type to see how different the tools
    feel?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-13 19:53:22'
- author:
    name: jevans4
    picture: 110960
  body: Thanks Chris. The work we've done up to this point in the class has been experimental
    and they've really flexed their creative muscles so I was a bit sad when posed
    with the question of whether this student could start from an existing face. My
    gut instinct was, "Absolutely not! Are you a designer or what? What do you think
    we've been working toward all this time?" (smack upside the head) I do not want
    to send that message. Good suggestion, thanks!
  created: '2008-04-13 20:31:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Font making applications can blend two fonts to come up with a \"tween\".
    \r\nThis may be considered a surreptitious form of \"point piracy\", which is
    forbidden by font EULAs.\r\nHowever, it is also a use of digital media that creates
    new ways of designing to emerge, and is \"true to materials\", a central principle
    of many traditional art forms, so the issue is more complex than if tweening were
    just a cheat.\r\n\r\nThere are some fonts available online, eg. Bitstream Vera,
    \ which have licences permitting modifications.\r\n\r\nSo perhaps if a student
    were to come up with a novel and meaningful idea involving transforming an exisiting
    font, and it wasn't just a lazy gloss, that would be worth considering?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-13 21:47:00'
- author:
    name: dsgoen
    picture: 110169
  body: "I am in complete disagreement here.\r\n\r\nThis project is for a class, not
    for sale. A class is a learning environment. There is no way better way to truly
    understand the effectiveness of a typeface than to tear it apart into it's root
    elements and rebuild it from your own perspective. Questions abound about why
    one typeface is more effective than another. What angles are used, and why? What
    is the rational behind the length of ascenders and descenders? What curves are
    chosen? Are the curves derived from circles or compound curves? How are the serifs
    constructed? Would a non serif approach work with the rest of the face? What elements
    place the typeface in a historical context? How did a type designer learn and
    feed on the work of others? These are all questions that can be explored through
    taking an existing typeface and reworking it.\r\n\r\nThe whole concept of plagiarism
    has been completely distorted over the last few decades. We live in a world consisting
    of billions of people, and the past is filled with more billions. It is egotistical
    to an extreme to think that you can always come up with a new work that doesn't
    owe a debt to the past. Over the millennia the greatest artists have studied,
    appropriated and built upon the work of others. This is how they learned, this
    is how they grew, and with growth came wisdom and the ability to transform the
    borrowed work into something greater. \r\n\r\nBesides the obvious example of Shakespeare,
    who didn't write an original plot line in his life, there are myriad other examples:\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>We
    can say nothing but what hath been said . . . Our poets steal from Homer . . .
    . Our storydressers do as much; he that comes last is commonly best.\r\nRobert
    Burton\r\n<li>Copy from one, it's plagiarism; copy from two, it's research.\r\nJohn
    Milton\r\n<li>Take the whole range of imaginative literature, and we are all wholesale
    borrowers. In every matter that relates to invention, to use, or beauty or form,
    we are borrowers.\r\nWendell Phillips\r\n<li>And what there is to conquer\r\nBy
    strength and submission, has already been discovered\r\nOnce or twice, or several
    times, by men whom one cannot hope\r\nTo emulate\u2014but there is no competition\u2014\r\nThere
    is only the fight to recover what has been lost\r\nAnd found and lost again and
    again: and now, under conditions\r\nThat seem unpropitious. But perhaps neither
    gain nor loss.\r\nFor us, there is only the trying. The rest is not our business.
    \r\nTS Eliot\r\n<li>If you refuse to study anatomy, the art of drawing and perspective,
    the mathematics of aesthetics, and the science of colors, let me tell you it is
    more a sign of laziness than of genius!\r\nSalvador Dali\r\n<eol>\r\n\r\nIt is
    not plagiarism for a student to learn from those who came before. To always insist
    that a student must concentrate on \"originality\" is not an asset. It is not
    an ethical dilemma to see how something works and what you might change, and hopefully,
    improve on it. \r\n\r\nYour dilemma as a teacher is to determine if the student
    is actually thinking and learning about something. Are your students growing in
    their understanding of the past and making their way into the future? If they
    are, then they deserve praise. If the student is merely parroting something back,
    that is plagiarism. It is thought that counts.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-13 22:00:20'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>So perhaps if a student were to come up with a novel and meaningful
    idea involving transforming an exisiting font, and it wasn\u2019t just a lazy
    gloss, that would be worth considering?</cite>\r\n\r\nThat might be appropriate
    if the a project\u2019s goal is simply to produce a working font, but I think
    that it falls short if the goal of the project is to learn to design type. One
    learns a hell of a lot about the design of a letter by drawing it, even if the
    drawing process is just a digital tracing. But when an existing font is modified,
    all of the hard work is done; one need only apply a new idea. Such a project might
    be appropriate if the goal is to explore mashing up ideas, but that doe not appear
    to be the case here. \r\n\r\nAs a student working on a new typeface based on an
    existing design, my working process has always been to redraw the existing letters
    myself and build on that. I constantly check my work against a digital version
    of the font I am using as a basis, which allows me to spot a lot of mistakes and
    answers many of my questions about why a font is put together the way it is. I
    could have saved myself a lot of time by just loading up the original and modifying
    it, but I wouldn\u2019t have learned a thing about drawing letterforms, or proportions,
    or spacing or kerning. I would only have learned to dump my design ideas on top
    of anothers.\r\n\r\nI\u2019ll now attack on Mr. Goen\u2019s arguments for why
    the student should be allowed to do this: Picasso learned to draw in his father\u2019s
    teaching method: copy from drawings, then draw sculpture, then draw from life.
    Would he have have ever made it to step two if he had simply fired up Photoshop,
    plugged in a Wacom tablet, and started scribbling over scans of old master drawings?"
  created: '2008-04-13 23:10:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "David, I agree with your principles, but think that you have the means backwards.\r\n\r\nYes,
    it is good to analyze and re-use the past, but \"start[ing from] from an existing
    typeface and mak[ing] changes to create their own font\" is not the way to do
    it.\r\n\r\nMost of the things you cite as worth knowing about the mechanics of
    a font can be best determined by measuring: if one merely cuts and pastes or uses
    transform tools, one will remain oblivious to such qualia, except perhaps in a
    very intuitive sense.\r\n\r\nThe way to learn a skill is by practicing it oneself.
    If for instance, one copies the metrics of one's typeface from those of another
    face, what does one learn about metrics? If, however, one measures the sidebearings
    for \"v\", \"l\" and \"o\" in several established faces, and notes the relative
    proportions, and deduces the strategy behind this, and applies it to one's own
    font, then one learns something.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-13 23:14:29'
- author:
    name: Thomas Levine
    picture: 112734
  body: "There's nothing ethically wrong with modifying someone else's typeface  unless
    that person has some stupid exclusive \"right\" to its modification. Unfortunately,
    most people here won't agree with me about how copyright is obselete.\r\n\r\nPlaying
    with existing fonts as David suggests would be much more interesting and probably
    more educational than starting from scratch, but it probably wouldn't lead directly
    to the creation of a new typeface.\r\n\r\nIt would be great if students didn't
    have to make their own typefaces so soon."
  created: '2008-04-14 03:22:27'
- author:
    name: dsgoen
    picture: 110169
  body: "Nick,\r\nI don't understand your objection, as I believe we are saying the
    same thing. \"if ... one measures the sidebearings ... and deduces the strategy
    behind this\" is exactly what I was suggesting. That's what I meant by \"tearing
    it apart.\" I said nothing about cut and paste, I said to rework the typeface,
    analyze and transform it.\r\n\r\nI think a fairly useless exercise would be to
    ask a student to create the metrics for a new font without first understanding
    how metrics came to be and were used in the past. Therefore, you deduce the strategy
    and learn from it. Even if what you learn is that you don't agree with the strategy.\r\n\r\nMr
    Puckett,\r\nSimilarly, I never said anything about \"scribbling all over\" anything.
    How does \"copy from drawings\" differ from what I was suggesting as a beginning
    point?\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-14 03:33:20'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "If the class is on type design, they probably should not start from something
    that already exists.\r\n\r\nBut <cite>typography</cite> includes more than type
    design. There have been a lot of times in my work where I had to draw up some
    characters for a font that didn't have them -- anything from a set of old-style
    numbers, small capitals in italic, Old English sorts -- eng, yogh, Carolingian
    et, etc, Yoruba and Pan-Nigerian characters, and on & on.\r\n\r\nSome foundries
    allow the end user to modify fonts -- Adobe is an obvious example -- and it is
    a useful skill to have.\r\n\r\nSo I'd say it depends on what you lump into <cite>typography</cite> "
  created: '2008-04-14 04:12:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If you want to learn to swim, you have to get into the water. It won't help
    to just try on someone else's wet bathing suit.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-14 04:16:58'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "dsgoen -- <cite>This project is for a class, not for sale. A class is a learning
    environment. There is no way better way to truly understand the effectiveness
    of a typeface than to tear it apart into it\u2019s root elements and rebuild it
    from your own perspective.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis would be an interesting project
    indeed -- but a research project, not a creative one. The student should be made
    aware of the difference. For example, the student could do this kind of research
    <em>and</em> design something original, non-derivative. Finally she/he would present
    the design together with the research results (maybe a booklet with text and illustrations),
    and be able to explain why she/he made this or that decision in her/his original
    design.\r\n\r\n<cite>Your dilemma as a teacher is to determine if the student
    is actually thinking and learning about something. ... It is thought that counts.</cite>\r\n\r\nFully
    agreed. My conclusion would be a different one, though.\r\nSince we cannot read
    otherones' thoughts, they need to leave some marks from which we can infer that
    something happened in their minds. And derivative work makes it hard for the teacher
    to judge whether its qualities stem from the work from which it was derived, or
    if they represent the students' own insights."
  created: '2008-04-14 09:56:46'
- author:
    name: Janic
  body: "What is wrong with the fonts in the AIGA pdf? Is this some kind of a type
    joke?\r\n\r\nJanic"
  created: '2008-04-14 11:18:56'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: When I taught Fontographer I never let students just open a font and mess
    with the points - no learning in that. On the other hand, I let them use printout
    of a font or a xerox copy of a specimen from a book as a starting point to alter,
    improve(?) or adapt. They then had to scan back in and work in Illustrator and
    import or trace in Fontographer.  Much like making a digital version of a lead
    font but the original might actually be another digital font that has been altered.
  created: '2008-04-14 14:31:11'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "@jevans4: A student asked if they could start from an existing typeface and
    make changes to create their own font. \r\n\r\nThis would be a bit like starting
    from an existing novel and making changes to create your own novel. You might
    learn something from this exercise (perhaps mechanical editing skills), but I
    don't think it would teach you much about how to write a novel."
  created: '2008-04-14 14:39:24'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "From Wikipedia:\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Typography\r\n\r\n<cite>Typography
    is the art and techniques of type design, modifying type glyphs, and arranging
    type. Type glyphs (characters) are created and modified using a variety of illustration
    techniques. The arrangement of type is the selection of typefaces, point size,
    line length, leading (line spacing) and letter spacing.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>Typography
    is performed by typesetters, compositors, typographers, graphic artists, art directors,
    and clerical workers. Until the Digital Age, typography was a specialized occupation.
    Digitization opened up typography to new generations of visual designers and lay
    users.</cite>\r\n\r\nOnce again, it depends on what the class is about;  *typography*
    is not synonymous with *type design*  "
  created: '2008-04-14 15:48:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I think the objection of experienced type designers here is not to learning
    from existing fonts, but rather to what kind of exercise is likely to be most
    instructive. \r\n\r\nJust taking the digital glyphs from an existing font, and
    eg, changing the serifs, is not the most instructive exercise. This is because
    there is so much 'DNA' in the font that the student is not going to become aware
    of in this way.\r\n\r\nA more instructive exercise would be to take a good font
    that is not shown to the students, and giving them some control characters: o
    n O H. Then have them try to draw three or four other characters in the font consistent
    with the style. Enough that they can set a few words--you could try 'sex me' (and
    in caps) just to get their attention :)  Then compare words set in their newly
    drawn characters with the original good, professional font. And do this for a
    few varied styles. Now that is going to be a lot more instructive, I think, than
    the 'Frankenstein' exercise.  "
  created: '2008-04-14 16:37:21'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: 'When I took type design in college I found it very useful to study existing
    characters to learn the general rules about glyph design. I don''t think I would
    have gotten the same knowledge from starting with existing characters in fontlab. '
  created: '2008-04-14 19:59:29'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\"Unfortunately, most people here won\u2019t agree with me about how copyright
    is obselete.\"\r\n\r\nNeither will most courts of law. Certainly not US ones.\r\n\r\nIn
    any case, I would echo a few things people have said earlier, and add a couple
    of thoughts.\r\n\r\n1) Modifying an existing digital font is not actually a very
    educational experiene.\r\n\r\n2) Opening and *studying* existing well-made fonts
    is a useful learning exercise (assuming it's permitted by the font license).\r\n\r\nIndeed,
    I'd suggest a good exercise being to point students at two well-done fonts and
    one poorly-done one, and try to analyze what is wrong with the bad one. Some people
    will say there's no such thing as a bad font. They're wrong.\r\n\r\nIf it were
    permitted by license, you could give them a poorly executed font and ask them
    to \"fix\" it. You could even point at what's not done correctly (e.g. bad spacing,
    improperly made outlines, poor kerning, whatever). That seems like it might be
    a useful educational experiene.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-04-15 02:35:40'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Licensing, copyright and fair use issues aside, I think students, not to
    mention everyone else on the planet, have opportunity their whole lives to open
    up a font and alter it if they choose. In an educational situation, I've always
    told the students this, and then made sure they learned how the fonts got there
    by compelling them to make their own from scratch. This being the only chance
    they are likely to have supervision of such an effort, I wouldn't waste the opportunity.
    \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-04-15 12:35:06'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: Instead of relying on the fonts of others I have students appropriate working
    methods and begin by drawing fundamental characters (HOV hov) while using established
    fonts as a means of controlling basic proportional relationships. Seeing these
    relationships among characters and understanding how to apply them to their own
    work is an essential component of education in graphic design. But they cannot
    modify another's work whether that other is a professional designer or another
    student. Appropriating another's working method is fine but appropriation of another's
    work is grounds for dismissal.
  created: '2008-04-15 15:46:09'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "<cite> 2) Opening and *studying* existing well-made fonts is a useful learning
    exercise (assuming it\u2019s permitted by the font license). <cite>\r\n\r\nFortunately,
    if copyright law gives you the right, the restriction in the font license is probably
    unenforceable. \r\n\r\nThis thread began with ethics. Would you consider a prohibition
    on study ethical (keeping in mind \"the Progress of Science and useful Arts\")?
    If your answer is yes, is it applicable to all intellectual property, or just
    to fonts?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-15 18:30:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Would you consider a prohibition on study ethical?</em>\r\n\r\nYes, if
    it contravenes the terms by which the study material is made available to students."
  created: '2008-04-15 19:37:51'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "<cite> Yes, if it contravenes the terms by which the study material is made
    available to students. <cite>\r\n\r\nYou cannot contravene illegal terms."
  created: '2008-04-15 20:03:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "As I understand it (and I'm not a lawyer) the person who writes a contract
    can put any conditions they want into it, no matter how seemingly absurd, and
    if someone else agrees to the contract (in order to acquire access to the property),
    then they are bound by the terms.\r\n\r\nIf they think the terms are unreasonable,
    then they shouldn't agree to the contract--in which case they won't get the property
    and won't be able to study it.\r\n\r\nIf the terms are illegal, in the sense that
    the licensor claims rights which they don't possess, that's another matter.\r\n\r\nBut
    in that case, wouldn't you consider it unethical of the licensee to agree to the
    contract in order to gain access to the property, knowing that he/she was going
    to ignore the terms of the contract?"
  created: '2008-04-15 21:50:27'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Hey, I agreed with Nick on something!  :)\r\n\r\nI'm not a lawyer, and anyone
    looking to violate a contract they've agreed to (such as their font license terms)
    on the grounds that they think it's illegal should definitely consult a lawyer
    first.\r\n\r\nBasic info on the subject is here:\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Illegal_agreement\r\n\r\nOther
    reasons a contract may not stand up:\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contract#Setting_aside_the_contract\r\n\r\nNote
    that the relevant law presumably differs from one country to another....\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-04-15 23:06:01'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: There are several theories of contracts that explain why agreements must be
    honoured. Some are based on autonomy, some on efficiency, some on "ethics". But
    consumer contracts are different in many respects. The state (without which there
    would be no copyright) can intervene where it sees fit and alter the terms of
    the contract. For example, your relationship with your bank is governed by regulations,
    your "agreement" notwithstanding. When you buy your gym membership, you might
    "agree" to waive certain liabilities, yet the law does not give effect to your
    "consent". Similarly, it is wrong to assume that a student who acquires a font,
    or borrows materials from a library, or purchases a CD at the store, has only
    those rights stipulated in some "license". Sometimes the license is effective,
    sometimes it isn't.
  created: '2008-04-15 23:11:40'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> There is no way better way to truly understand the effectiveness of a typeface
    than to tear it apart into it\u2019s root elements and rebuild it from your own
    perspective.\r\n\r\nI will not dispute that there is some benefit to this practice.
    It is partially how I would teach typography (if I were skilled enough in the
    field to consider myself as teaching material). But the tearing apart and rebuilding
    should only be considered as a learning step, probably with a limited number of
    glyphs from any one font, and covering a wide range of fonts: a comparison of
    seven different 'a' glyphs from different fonts in different categories, for instance.\r\n\r\nWhen
    the students are skilled to the point of creating a first complete typeface, then
    they should be producing original creations, or if copying, then copying from
    an out of copyright printed document, the way a revival face might be created.
    Copying from a modern computer font is problematic in two ways: ethics, plus how
    do you know they created all the glyphs, and didn't just steal some."
  created: '2008-04-16 15:10:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There is only one chance to approach something naively and discover the thinking
    process that is truly you and not someone else. The point is that you will truly
    learn more by making what you may deem \"mistakes\" than you will by doing it
    what others consider the \"Right Way\". Don't throw away this chance by picking
    apart someone else's journey. There is no shortcut path so when you get \"stuck\"
    for a time, you will invent a unique path for yourself rather than go running
    back to see what that other guy did. If you do, you find a specific solution,
    not the path to all answers.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-16 16:20:22'
- author:
    name: jayyy
    picture: 109661
  body: "\u201CUnfortunately, most people here won\u2019t agree with me about how
    copyright is obselete.\u201D\r\n\r\nThomas - I do not know what your profession
    is or what your skillset is, but presuming it is somewhat creative, how can you
    say that copyright is obsolete?! Copyright is the little protection that intellectual
    property or creative work has to protect it from all out plagiarism.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-16 22:24:23'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Thomas is a high school student.
  created: '2008-04-16 22:43:11'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: Copyright and moral issues aside, the students should draw fresh outlines.
    Even if they started with someone else's work (which is not uncommon in the industry),
    they should look at prints, and draw it from scratch. Otherwise they won't be
    any closer to being type designers than when they started.
  created: '2008-04-17 00:02:44'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: "Locks on doors and EULA are for honest people. Pulling a watch apart at home
    and finding out how it works and not telling anyone, then everyone is happy. Pulling
    it apart then copying it or using the technology for your own profit... then you
    can expect a letter in the mail.\r\n\r\nFor a design student to pull a font apart
    at home, take notes and just observe..  depends on how it is pulled apart, typing
    in Illustrator then converting to paths...?  Or opening in a font design package
    to evaluate. Though to build onto an existing font without approval is wrong.\r\n\r\nThough
    in this case if all of the 'Typography II class' are creating their own 'an original?',
    and the student in question is not, then that is cheating right?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-17 00:16:35'
- author:
    name: Hannes Famira
    picture: 110283
  body: "In my experience the question your student raised usually comes up when the
    students feel insecure about their own ability to design type. When the task seems
    to daunting students seem to think that starting with a working set of characters
    will make their own design decisions easier. I have seen what happens next and
    strongly disagree. However, instead of even entering the discussion wether reverse
    engineering and plagiarizing other designers work is a creative, honorable and
    useful enterprise to boot I would suggest to react by making the whole undertaking
    more accessible. Prepare smaller bites for the students and guide them through
    the process. Have them draw one character, then the next. In the critique discuss
    how the letterforms interact. If guided through the alphabet this way, digitizing
    the drawings will be a relatively small step and nobody will even think to start
    with stolen outlines.\r\n\r\nIf learning FontLab and the principles of type design
    at the same time seems too complex for that particular class I recommend using
    FontConstructor  (http://www.fontconstructor.com/) for their first project and
    then transitioning to Fontlab with the next assignment. This application is way
    easier to master, it's free and encourages modular, object oriented design. \r\n\r\nDiscourage
    plagiarism by snubbing the very notion as below par for any designer. Shoplifting
    outlines is shameful and will be punished harshly."
  created: '2008-04-17 21:13:42'
- author:
    name: jevans4
    picture: 110960
  body: Hannes, thanks for your suggestion. I'll check out FontConstructor. Thanks
    to those who thoughtfully responded.
  created: '2008-04-18 02:41:16'
date: '2008-04-13 19:04:45'
title: Ethics & Teaching Fontlab

---
