---
author:
  name: Michael Jarboe
body: "I'm currently having trouble with a OpenType family of six weights (ExtraLight,
  Light, Regular, Medium, SemiBold, Bold) where I've tried different naming options
  (AT's MSN Forum naming guide) yet no matter what changes I make the sub-menu omits
  Light and Medium styles.  (I've never had problems with up to three styles it's
  the six that is troubling)\r\n\r\nEverything looks good and consistent with the
  naming and all the styles show up under one family in Font Explorer\u2026 any ideas
  of what could be the problem?\r\n\r\nMike"
comments:
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>the sub-menu omits Light and Medium styles.</em>\r\n\r\nWhich sub-menu
    is this? Which application?"
  created: '2008-04-16 21:20:34'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: "CS apps Illustrator and InDesign v CS3 I've been trying different variations
    (going over font naming guides) for awhile now and still somehow stuck with Light
    and Medium not showing up, yet they show as a group in Font Explorer\u2026"
  created: '2008-04-17 00:13:42'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: "Miraculously after working all day between the Learn Fontlab Fast, Adam Twardoch's
    MSN Group Naming Thread, and Karsten's Font naming pdf (All which have slightly
    different methods to this mysterious process -- and having no prior problems with
    font families less than six styles) I've managed to export my OpenType font family
    and have it preview with all but the 'Light' weight missing in the sub-menu (CS).\r\n\r\nI'm
    to the point I'd be willing to pay and/or hire someone briefly to look at my .vfb
    files of all six styles to give me some insight into what might be wrong with
    the current naming conventions I'm using. \r\n\r\nI'm curious as to what the magic
    key is to successfully generate a PS OpenType font family consisting of six styles
    is. (And have them ALL actually show up in the sub-menu)\r\n\r\nI apologize for
    my lack of expertise with this, it is a problem I just ran into recently and due
    to the constrains of time and my focus on creative work I haven't had the opportunity
    to focus as much on coding or software engineering literature in order to increase
    my competence in some of the advanced subject's within Fontlab. (Such as simply
    trying to name a font family of six styles and have it actually work).\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-17 02:43:51'
- author:
    name: j.hadley
    picture: 112720
  body: "Infuriating, isn't it? This topic is probably one of the more challenging
    things facing font developers, apart from the actual design part. I would say,
    \"something needs to be done\" but I fear that might result in another half-dozen
    name table fields that need to get added to fonts.\r\n\r\n\r\nAnyway: I'm not
    sure if you've seen Thomas Phinney's bit on this which includes some screen captures
    for FontLab settings: http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/typotechnica2007/Font%20names.pdf
    \  ... it might help but don't be surprised if there are still some oddities in
    some application somewhere.\r\n\r\nAlso: under Mac OS X you may find it helpful
    to delete your font caches and reboot. In fact that may be the problem, especially
    if you've been installing and uninstalling your fonts as you work on them. The
    FontNuke app at http://www.jamapi.com/ is useful for this.\r\n\r\n\r\nGood luck.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-17 03:44:03'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: "Joshua,\r\n\r\nThanks for the heads up, I just tried FontNuke, restarted
    and now all six styles show up properly. Up until now I had always relied on Font
    Explorer's 'Clean application font caches\u2026' to quickly make changes/edits
    and re-install a freshly 'generated' type family.\r\n\r\nNow it makes me wonder
    how many times I had the font naming conventions correct earlier only to have
    it possibly be a cache issue? \r\n\r\nThis is an interesting topic, if anyone
    has any insight into these issues, and or their own process for naming-testing-clearing-reinstalling
    let us know.\r\n\r\nThanks\u2026"
  created: '2008-04-17 04:35:47'
- author:
    name: j.hadley
    picture: 112720
  body: "Glad to hear that you seem to have it sorted out. We use (and recommend)
    Font Nuke quite a bit.\r\n\r\nMy only advice is to test on as many platforms and
    in as many applications as you possibly can. The ones you don't test in are always
    the ones where it doesn't work :-)\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-17 07:30:17'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>I\u2019m curious as to what the magic key is to successfully generate
    a PS OpenType font family consisting of six styles is. (And have them ALL actually
    show up in the sub-menu)</em>\r\n\r\nThe magic is, <strong>use the AFDKO !</strong>
    At this point I probably sound like a broken record, but I still haven't seen
    a tool that does the [[Font Naming]] correct and effortlessly like the [[AFDKO]]
    does. And if you find this hard to believe, ask the [[Education|Type & Media]]
    or the [[Education|Reading]] students. I was over there a couple of months ago
    giving a workshop on how to use the AFDKO tools, and we probably spent like 10
    minutes(!!) setting up the naming. And half of that time was actually just typing.\r\n\r\nAre
    you planning to attend [[TypeCon]] this year? I'm going to give a full-day workshop
    there about using some of the AFDKO tools.\r\n\r\n> <em>This topic is probably
    one of the more challenging things facing font developers</em>\r\n\r\nI completely
    agree. Getting the 'name' table right is not an easy task. Fortunately there are
    (free) tools out there that simplify the whole process. Have I mentioned the [[AFDKO]]?
    :) I just don't understand why FontLab hasn't taken advantage of this yet..."
  created: '2008-04-18 01:20:30'
- author:
    name: ReginaldV
    picture: 114672
  body: "Miguel,\r\n\r\nCould you give some quick pointers here how AFDKO is used
    in the naming process ?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-18 07:26:06'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: Read here http://www.typophile.com/node/15485#comment-193430
  created: '2008-04-18 10:11:20'
- author:
    name: ReginaldV
    picture: 114672
  body: "Miguel,\r\n\r\nI've just sorted out my naming (I think) - PC Word was the
    problem.\r\n\r\nMakeOTF looks great, could you point me in the direction of documentation
    for MakeOTF. I have AFDKO Installed and I'm comfortable(ish) using command line
    stuff. "
  created: '2008-04-18 10:56:51'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "A nice MakeOTF manual should be on your HD already, being part of the AFDKO
    download. I think it gives very detailed information.&nbsp;&nbsp;;-)\r\n\r\nRegarding
    Miguel's link to his post in the other thread: \r\nTo understand the relation
    of MakeOTF's FontMenuNameDB to FLS5's naming interface, just bear in mind that
    MakeOTF's \"FamilyName\"/\"StyleName\" roughly matches FLS5's \"OT Family Name\"/\"OT
    Style Name\" (\"long family\" in Adam Twardoch's naming how-to), while MakeOTF's
    \"WindowsCompatibleMenuName\" matches FLS5's \"Family Name\" (\"short family\").\r\nThis
    equation is not absolutely true, but may help get the idea."
  created: '2008-04-18 12:05:20'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "Speaking of naming, what do you people think of Fontshop's naming routines
    where every font in a family (unless in OT-compatible-menues) are treated as they
    were their own typeface?\r\n\r\nLike this (I opened up Meta in FontLab)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/meta1_4493.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/meta2_5673.png]\r\nIsn't
    that a good way of making cross platform compatible fonts, that never mess things
    up?"
  created: '2008-04-18 12:44:44'
- author:
    name: ReginaldV
    picture: 114672
  body: With my limited experience I think it's horses for courses. The different
    naming systems will have different pros and cons. I'm not 100% but I think in
    some apps the fontshop way of naming the fonts will mean they won't appear in
    alphabetical order and the fonts will appear down the bottom of the list
  created: '2008-04-18 13:53:15'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: "This is such an interesting topic, being that there are numerous font output
    formats, naming conventions, and each foundry and designer having their own method's\u2026
    it makes this topic very complex. Not to mention the different applications for
    font generation, platforms, software makers and applications for using fonts.
    The variables are endless\u2026 Thanks for the feedback. "
  created: '2008-04-18 18:03:05'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: "Miguel\u2026 thanks, I'm going to look into AFDKO, looks pretty simple and
    if that's how Adobe does it\u2026\_how does AFDKO effect what would already be
    in your Fontlab files in the naming info sections if they are already filled out?
    And what about the weight input such as Regular - 400, and in situations where
    you need to manually correct ExtraLight, to make it 250 instead of 200?"
  created: '2008-04-18 18:13:35'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: "It would be nice if Fontlab had a way to 'lift up the hood' so to speak\u2026
    similar to the way in OpenType Features before font 'generation' you can manually
    go in and make any changes, it would be nice to be able to go into the code for
    the naming and look over it manually (if it would be displayed similar to the
    AFDKO code looks) and make any changes.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-18 20:51:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Shortly after Adobe upgraded the old FDK to ADFKO, FontLab said they were
    going to incorporate much of it in a future release. I think that was 2 years
    ago? I think the future is now and I wish FontLab would do it already. Yuri made
    some hints about a future release coming here on Typophile a month or so ago but
    not a peep has been heard since. I wish he or Adam would come forward with what
    is in the offing.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-18 21:02:11'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>Like this (I opened up Meta in FontLab)</em>\r\n\r\nDon't trust in
    everything you see on those two panes. When opening a non-VFB font, FontLab fills
    in some fields with values that were not present in the font. If you want to analyze
    the contents of the 'name' table, you should look at the 3rd pane (Additional
    OpenType names/Non-English or special font names: [name] table), or use tools
    like ttx, tx, spot, all available in the AFDKO."
  created: '2008-04-18 21:18:48'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: Ok, I thought that fields was to be trusted.
  created: '2008-04-18 21:27:03'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>how does AFDKO effect what would already be in your Fontlab files in
    the naming info sections if they are already filled out? </em>\r\n\r\nThe workflow
    we use for generating the OTFs (described here [[http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/typotechnica2007/TypoTechnica2007_FontProduction_at_Adobe.pdf|Font
    Production at Adobe]]) involves generating a Type 1 font (.pfa) from the VFB.
    That font will only contain certain values from the fields on FontLab's Font Info
    panes. In terms of naming, you just need to worry about these fields: Family Name,
    Weight, PS Font Name and Full Name. These need to match the information you put
    on the FontMenuNameDB file. This file is used for building the 'name' table, whereas
    the names you type in FontLab go into the 'CFF ' table.\r\n\r\nThere's other Font
    Info data that goes into the Type 1 font, like the Copyright, the Notice, the
    Version number, the Italic angle, the Hinting, etc., but these don't affect the
    naming.\r\n\r\n> <em>And what about the weight input such as Regular - 400, and
    in situations where you need to manually correct ExtraLight, to make it 250 instead
    of 200?</em>\r\n\r\nThose values don't end up in the Type 1 font. That data is
    put in the 'features' file, in the form of a table declaration,\r\n<code>\r\ntable
    OS/2 {\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;CapHeight 650;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;XHeight 440;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;TypoAscender
    709;\t# top of ascenders\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;TypoDescender -291;\t# TypoAscender-UPM\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;TypoLineGap
    200;\t# 20% of UPM\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;WeightClass 400;\t# Normal (Regular)\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;WidthClass
    5;\t\t# Medium (Normal)\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Vendor \"ADBE\";\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;FSType
    8;\t\t\t# Editable embedding\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Panose 2 4 5 3 5 2 1 2 2 3;\r\n}
    OS/2;\r\n</code>"
  created: '2008-04-18 21:49:20'
- author:
    name: ReginaldV
    picture: 114672
  body: "Miguel,\r\n\r\nShould the Additional OpenType names panel always be filled
    in. I think like Goran I have been opening fonts in FL to try and work out there
    naming and noticed that panel empty. \r\nIf you say FL fills in values that are
    not present in the font, does it also leave the Additional OpenType names panel
    empty when in the original VFB for that font it would have been completed."
  created: '2008-04-18 21:51:36'
- author:
    name: ReginaldV
    picture: 114672
  body: I just check myself and FL does leave the Additional OpenType names panel
    empty when opening a font, but the original VFB that created the font had the
    panel completed.
  created: '2008-04-18 22:02:08'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "It depends on the Preferences you have set for opening and/or generating
    OpenType fonts.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/OT_open_5889.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/OT_generate_6628.png]"
  created: '2008-04-18 22:08:00'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: "Can someone explain how to 'Run the FinishInstallOSX command file on MacOSX'\u2026
    I'm confused as to what exactly I'm supposed to do when 'running scripts', if
    I can figure this out I think I can move forward\u2026 or maybe not, this is some
    crazy programming stuff that doesn't make much sense at all, I would just like
    it to create the naming as that is pretty straightforward."
  created: '2008-04-19 00:40:41'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: "What does everyone think of Fontshop's naming that Goran mentioned? I just
    tried it and it worked well\u2026 I did notice that the order of the sub-menu
    was slightly different than what I am used to. \r\n\r\nThe order being:\r\n\r\nMedium\r\nLight\r\nExtraLight\r\nRegular\r\nSemiBold\r\nBold"
  created: '2008-04-19 00:53:32'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: "It's interesting also that a program as simple as TextEdit (OS X) lists the
    styles in the actual weight order:\r\n\r\nExtraLight\r\nLight\r\nRegular\r\nMedium\r\nSemiBold\r\nBold\r\n\r\nI
    give TextEdit a thumbs-up!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-19 00:56:12'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>Can someone explain how to \u2019Run the FinishInstallOSX command file
    on MacOSX\u2019\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nHave you tried following the instructions at
    http://typophile.com/node/20078 ?"
  created: '2008-04-19 02:26:56'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>I did notice that the order of the sub-menu was slightly different
    than what I am used to.</em>\r\n\r\nIs this on CS3 apps again? If so, the the
    Weight values in the fonts might not be quite right."
  created: '2008-04-19 02:30:22'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>this is some crazy programming stuff that doesn\u2019t make much sense
    at all</em>\r\n\r\nI agree that if you saw someone doing it at least once, everything
    would be a lot simpler and easier to understand. Perhaps I should really consider
    making videocasts of the different steps: Installing the AFDKO, Making the First
    Font, Naming the Family, ..."
  created: '2008-04-19 02:40:16'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: "<em>Have you tried following the instructions at http://typophile.com/node/20078
    ?</em>\r\n\r\nYes, but I get kind of lost within the terminal application, it's
    bizarre to be working with an application that is a text window running commands.
    If I saw a live example I think I would have a better understanding and the ability
    to get through it."
  created: '2008-04-19 04:31:29'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: "<em>I agree that if you saw someone doing it at least once, everything would
    be a lot simpler and easier to understand. Perhaps I should really consider making
    videocasts of the different steps: Installing the AFDKO, Making the First Font,
    Naming the Family, ...</em>\r\n\r\nYes, that would be great, I briefly had that
    thought when I was looking at how complex AFDKO seems to be (coming from the more
    creative side of things as opposed to programming). Making it to TypeCon would
    be great but a videocast would be really helpful in the meantime. Thanks Miguel\u2026"
  created: '2008-04-19 04:34:04'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: "<em>Is this on CS3 apps again? If so, the the Weight values in the fonts
    might not be quite right.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, it is on CS3 apps, although I'm positive
    the weight values are correct, in a descending order from lightest to heaviest
    as I'm very careful with these details after having gone over and over them.\r\n\r\nWhat
    is interesting, is, shortly after trying the Fontshop naming convention, I went
    back in for further testing and re-named all styles similar to (A Twardoch's naming
    how-to and kl's), yet I eliminated the 'Menu Name', 'FOND Name', and on the next
    page, 'Mac Name' was left blank as well.\r\n\r\nI then re-generated the 'Additional
    OpenType Name' panel for each and the generated font family worked excellent,
    with the sub-menu styles in order from lightest to heaviest (and all styles showing
    up in the sub-menu correctly). \r\n\r\nIn a way, I've come full circle with this
    issue, coming to understand what fields are most important and what role they
    play. As of now, I plan to sticking to the convention I just mentioned as it seems
    to work best, and it splits the 6 styles into 2 sub families for MS. \r\nThe ExtraLight
    and Light styles have the 'Family Name' of Myfont Lt and the other four weights
    the family name of Myfont Rg and every other field is consistent within this family."
  created: '2008-04-19 04:45:30'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: Don't get carried away on "the" FontShop naming convention. Naming conventions
    are always evolving, and Meta OT is quite old and an easy case namewise, because
    none of the strings needs to be shortened in order to meet some character count
    limits in the name records.
  created: '2008-04-19 11:33:53'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "OK, but are not almost all FontFonts (even the older postscript versions)
    considered more as separate fonts than as families, strictly technical that is?
    I remember older postscript fonts also having this approach, sometimes ending
    up with rather long font menues with no sub-menues at all.\r\n\r\nI kind of like
    this, as a matter of fact, because it force the user to actively chose the right
    weight manually, and by that there will be no confusion what so ever."
  created: '2008-04-19 11:45:40'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Yeah, but users in Windows GDI apps will be getting faux bolds all the time....
    It's a tradeoff.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-04-19 14:14:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Message to Microsoft: The 4 unit family of fonts has far outlived its usefullness
    and is now a real pain in the tuchus. Don't you think it is time for a change?
    Just think of the 4 font limit as MSDOS, it had its time but then you moved on.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-19 17:06:13'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: Yeah, I don't have much respect for MS or the world of PC's, it all just seems
    overly complicated and non user friendly on all levels.
  created: '2008-04-19 18:55:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "MS has made great strides since Windows 3.1 in many areas. They have even
    made great strides in language support for OpenType but they have not done jack
    with that antiquated 4 number family limit on fonts.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-19 19:20:59'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Here is another recent thread on a very similar question of font naming.
    The emphasis here was my wanting to get rid of 'fake bolds' generated in MS Word.
    \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/44050"
  created: '2008-04-20 13:37:49'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Actually, Microsoft <em>has</em> changed their font menu name handling dramatically,
    in Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF), their new API. (They couldn't change
    it in GDI without breaking existing apps.) WPF is available in Vista, and can
    optionally be installed on XP.\r\n\r\nNow the problem is that no major office
    type apps have moved to WPF. Actually, hardly any major apps of any type.\r\n\r\nMy
    latest version of my <a href=\"http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/typotechnica2007/Font%20names.pdf\">font
    naming presentation</a> includes WPF info, and I've spoken about it at ATypI TypeTech
    and TypoTechnica. <a href=\"http://blogs.msdn.com/text/attachment/2249036.ashx\">MS
    has plenty of info</a> on it as well.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-04-20 20:28:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Since MS also makes the most used office apps in the world, one might expect
    that they have a huge say in getting WPF applied in MS-Office?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-20 20:59:43'
date: '2008-04-16 17:44:29'
title: OT Font Naming

---
