---
author:
  name: aluminum
  picture: 110335
body: "Looks like Letterhead is in the news again:\r\n\r\nhttp://techdirt.com/articles/20080411/165153829.shtml\r\n\r\nThey're
  taking a very odd approach...they're increasing the cost for future purchasers of
  a  font they found on a file sharing site to 'make up the difference'\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: jazzhustler
    picture: 113421
  body: "I read about this a while ago. As much as I think his approach may not be
    in his own best interests, I do sympathise with his frustration that his company's
    hard work is being shared for free.\r\n\r\nJH"
  created: '2008-04-16 18:07:46'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Good for them. This is the way copyright infringement should be handled\u2014watermark
    the digital sales and go after the people who turned the material loose. It\u2019s
    a shame that Letterhead are being painted as the asshole here; if this was the
    MPAA or RIAA there would have been no friendly discussion, just a team of lawyers
    demanding that Mr. Howe bankrupt himself to pay them off or go to court and risk
    even greater damages. Mr. Howe deserves both the bill and the ridicule\u2014this
    was an inexpensive font to begin with!"
  created: '2008-04-16 18:08:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Good luck to Letterhead.\r\nSure, their approach may raise feathers, but
    it's their right to do business as they see fit.\r\nWhether or not one agrees
    with their strategy, one should encourage experiments in the mind-boggling issue
    of how to make a living from intellectual property in the digital era."
  created: '2008-04-16 18:18:01'
- author:
    name: The Don Killuminati
    picture: 113938
  body: "And so the saga continues. \r\nCheers to Letterhead and here's hoping Mr.
    Davis finds some satisfaction in this strategy. In the meantime, no way am I buying
    fonts from them. No way."
  created: '2008-04-16 18:29:24'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> So, along with publishing the story and this guy's name, it's significantly
    raised the price of the font from $30 to $40 -- saying that it will keep the price
    up until the full $944 is paid off. This is doubly stupid.\r\n\r\nI have to agree
    with this part of the equation. Why should I pay more because the last guy passed
    the font on? My solution is to shop somewhere else.\r\n\r\nI can't agree with
    the rest of the article, however. If the EULA clearly stated that you can get
    billed for shared copies of the font (and more importantly, sharing of the copies),
    then the company deserves what it gets. (In fact, the company that bought the
    font should be sending a bill for $944 to the sign company that posted the material
    on the sharing site.)"
  created: '2008-04-16 19:00:46'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "It's kind of like Full Metal Jacket, where the drill sergeant gets sick of
    one person screwing up, and punishes the whole group. Maybe we need to fill our
    socks up with lead type, tie offenders to the bed and swing, swing away...\r\n\r\nSome
    of the comments in that linked page were ghastly, like #34, #60..."
  created: '2008-04-16 19:01:02'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "At http://letterheadfonts.com/piracy/thousanddollarfont.php we read:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"In
    order to reduce the cases of piracy, Letterhead Fonts began encrypting account
    data into the font files in early 2007. The information embedded into the font
    file allows us to track the font back to it's original purchaser.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nWhile
    the \"account data\" are usually \"embedded\" into the invoice to the commodity,
    it is unusual to \"embed\" these \"acount data\" into the commodiy itself. The
    interesting legal question is whether a seller of commodities is permitted at
    all by American laws to \"embed\" such \"account data\" into the commodities he
    is selling. Here two examples:\r\n\r\nExample 1: A father buys a wedding ring
    for his daughter, and the jeweller \"embeds\" (= engraves) the father's \"account
    data\" into this ring. Is this permitted by American laws? \r\n\r\nExample 2:
    You need a heart valve, and the surgeon \"embeds\" your \"account data\" into
    this valve, before he implants it. Is this permitted by American laws?\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-16 19:42:12'
- author:
    name: jazzhustler
    picture: 113421
  body: "I would think it would be down to what exactly the 'account data' listed
    is.  Would it be a customer ref. number & details relating to the date  of purchase?
    \ I think that would have to be established before the question of legality is
    raised.\r\n\r\nJH"
  created: '2008-04-16 19:48:17'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"This is the way copyright infringement should be handled\u2014watermark
    the digital sales and go after the people who turned the material loose.\"\r\n\r\nI'm
    not necessarily against watermarking, but the rest makes no sense at all.\r\n\r\nThe
    watermark merely IDs the purchaser. It says nothing about the person that infringed
    on the copyright. It MAY have been the purchaser. It may have equally as likely
    NOT been the purchaser.\r\n\r\n\"It\u2019s a shame that Letterhead are being painted
    as the asshole here\"\r\n\r\nSay you bought a font from Adobe, then your laptop
    is stolen, and then Adobe says you own them $10,000 because they found the file
    on TorrentBay. Thoughts?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-16 19:49:54'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Uli, embedding an account number into digital files is a pretty common, and
    very legal system. Plenty of online music vendors who sell \u201CDRM-free\u201D
    music watermark the files they sell in this way. And as for your analogies, the
    items you describe are not items that can be replicated at no cost and passed
    on to the detriment of their creators."
  created: '2008-04-16 19:52:06'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"it\u2019s their right to do business as they see fit.\"\r\n\r\nAbsolutely.
    I think it's an odd way to go about it, but they certainly are entitled to whatever
    approach they think makes sense to them.\r\n\r\n\"Some of the comments in that
    linked page were ghastly, like #34, #60...\"\r\n\r\nI find the more extreme one's
    approach to fighting with customers, the more extreme the push back will be. (see
    also: RIAA) ;o)"
  created: '2008-04-16 19:53:26'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Plenty of online music vendors who sell \u201CDRM-free\u201D music watermark
    the files they sell in this way.\"\r\n\r\nAmazon and eMusic do not. They do embed
    some purchase data, but don't tie it to a specific account. "
  created: '2008-04-16 19:54:16'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "This is ridiculous. Do any of you really believe that every single person
    who pirates a font is going to use it for a commercial purpose or would have bought
    it had they not found it for free. I'm sorry but it's impossible to claim an accurate
    loss due to piracy.  How is punishing paying customers is going to make anyone
    less inclined to steal from them. \r\n\r\nI bet every single one of you has something
    pirated on your computer."
  created: '2008-04-16 20:44:26'
- author:
    name: Katharina
    picture: 112995
  body: "Quoting comment # 9 from Techdirt:\r\n\"Fonts are nothing but bothersome
    trash, especially for print industry workers. I have upwards of 50k and would
    never pay for any.\"\r\n\r\nOf course raising the price of Garner is a dubious
    method, but reading this comment made me understand how desperate one can become.
    - By the way, Garner is not your generously equipped OT font, but it comes with
    three weights and asking 39 US $ seems reasonable without the excuse of making
    good for the loss by piracy."
  created: '2008-04-16 20:57:40'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Between this and the previous issues with Letterhead, I'm just gonna steer
    clear. There are plenty of other foundries to buy from.
  created: '2008-04-16 21:27:40'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "I read that whole thing\u2014very ugly! The man made a mistake by sharing
    it with his publishing company. Piraters should be prosecuted although I don\u2019t
    think the original customer is the pirater. \r\n\r\nNevertheless, Letterhead is
    charging more to its new customers recoup lost revenue? I won\u2019t shop there
    ever. Not that I like those kinda fonts anyway.\r\n\r\nBest part: <em> If you're
    just looking to blow some money on a bunch of random fonts, you'll probably have
    a ball at this site.</em>\r\n\r\nLetterhead fonts are sold at Myfonts\u2014go
    figure."
  created: '2008-04-16 22:03:41'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: "Letterhead has created awareness of stealing fonts and that some are encrypted.
    Posting his name and company all good, shame on you for sharing your fonts. \r\n\r\nThe
    sharing the loss of income is a bit stink.\r\n\r\nIf I did a conceptual design
    for a client, got paid for the conceptual design from the client with a signed
    agreement: I own the rights to the conceptual design, until it is fully designed
    and produced.\r\nHowever if the client then takes the conceptual design to another
    design company, they reproduced designed based on my conceptual.... I STILL CANNOT
    CHARGE MY OTHER CLIENTS 33% to make up for the loss... damn I wish I could.\r\n\r\nor
    if a client goes into receivership as I had and nothing is in the tin or the office
    has tumbleweed, am I allowed to charge MY OTHER CLIENTS 33% to make up for the
    loss... no. I am sure there are many out there who too have had a client owe them
    a significant amount of money, for the client to then go under.. 'belly up'..
    gone. Now that really hurts... takes about x3 that amount to get it back.\r\n\r\nThough
    if you want the typeface you will pay for it. What is worse? paying $40 for a
    $30 font? or seeing it on Myfonts 3 days later for 80% discount? doh!  (I am not
    suggesting Letterhead here) though 'some' of those discounted fonts on MyFonts
    are not discounted enough for me ever to want to purchase, no thanks."
  created: '2008-04-16 23:46:50'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "For those of you who have not read Chuck's latest response to piracy and
    font design - please take a moment to read it here:\r\nhttp://letterheadfonts.com/news/index.shtml?a=blog&id=5\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-17 11:28:06'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"For those of you who have not read Chuck\u2019s latest response...\"\r\n\r\nFrom
    the site:\r\n\r\n\"See, Letterhead Fonts would never go out of business simply
    because some punk wishes it so. God created this business and only He has the
    ability to take it away.\"\r\n\r\nI'm picturing that post read in the voice of
    Charleston Heston."
  created: '2008-04-17 17:29:30'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: LOL - with the NRA standing proudly behind him.
  created: '2008-04-18 01:28:48'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: God created this business? Doesn't He have more important things to do - what
    with food shortages and pending environmental disaster? Wow, knowing Chuck's a
    bible thumper makes me even LESS inclined to buy his fonts than I already was.
    I hope he does go out of business. (she says as she removes the Letterhead bookmark
    from Safari)
  created: '2008-04-18 16:08:25'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> Wow, knowing Chuck\u2019s a bible thumper makes me even LESS inclined to
    buy his fonts than I already was. \r\n\r\nPerhaps (I hope) that comment was meant
    as a joke. (Although joking about religion is not a wise thing to do in business)."
  created: '2008-04-18 16:13:06'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I am not a \"bible thumper\" but following the links I read Psalm 140. Verses
    1-5 are quite beautiful. The rest are a bit frightening. As poetry it stands up
    to the tradition of the Tang Dynasty, Rumi or the Japanese haikuists. At least
    for me. I am going to read the Psalms now.\r\n\r\nHe's standing on principle instead
    of business savvy. Whether I agree with his principles or not, I do like the stance,
    it's refreshing.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-04-19 03:01:17'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "\u2018God created this business\u2019 gives me the shivers. Really, that
    scares me. Maybe I\u2019m too european to get that."
  created: '2008-04-19 03:04:25'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: God hates the same people you do.
  created: '2008-04-19 03:10:21'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: 'Letterhead is wise to watermark, foolish to make such a public stink and
    try to shift the accountability to the guy for their decision to raise prices.
    I don''t know this guy and I''m under no illusions that font piracy will ever
    go away. This is a legal matter, not something for the ''public stockades'' of
    the web. I think the market has spoken already: bad move. Customers will not ever
    thank you for screwing them. Why is this so surprising?'
  created: '2008-04-19 03:28:23'
- author:
    name: Typical
    picture: 112513
  body: "Re: account data\r\n\r\nWith various types of shareware, after your purchase,
    the vendor gives you an encrypted 'key,' comprised of several lines of of unreadable
    characters, which serves to both unlock the software for use but also embeds your
    name and email into the software. \r\n\r\nThis is good at deterring the original
    purchaser from sharing his/her key. \r\n\r\nA similar thing can be done with opentype
    fonts, but there is a major difference: the purchaser does not know that his name/email
    are encrypted into the font, or at least it's not visible when you click on font
    properties. Thus the psychological effect is weaker. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-19 03:34:50'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "If I were selling a font, I would add something to the purchasing process
    that would state the very basics of the Eula but in a way that people would want
    to read it. Like - read this and get a free font with your purchase. Then have
    a simple paragraph about not sharing the font and why, something that makes the
    font creator become an individual to the buyer. The more you know about the artist
    in any medium, the less you want to rip them off.\r\n\r\nMy naive two cents.\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2008-04-19 04:41:22'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I met with a very interesting person the other night. His philosophy: there
    are creators and there are \"owners\".\r\n\r\nI don't know squat about doing business
    and don't want to. I have always been able to generate ideas.\r\nMost of the implications
    of that elude me but I have come to a few conclusions:\r\n\r\nI am glad to be
    in that position.\r\n\r\nPeople that do not have that capability are confused
    by and in some cases resent creativity, sometimes leading to appropriation.\r\n\r\nThis
    gift can sustain me.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-04-19 07:42:27'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: "patty fab\r\n> Wow, knowing Chuck\u2019s a bible thumper makes me even LESS
    inclined to buy his fonts than I already was. I hope he does go out of business.
    (she says as she removes the Letterhead bookmark from Safari).\r\n\r\nI can't
    remember such a vile comment here in some time.\r\n\r\nI don't agree with Chuck's
    methods, nor do I think it's wise to inject religion into the dialogue, but he's
    the little guy standing up for something he believes in. To wish him ill will
    like this \u2014 it's stomach turning.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-19 08:20:45'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: "I would have thought posting the received 'unhappy' emails up on a website
    as in Letterhead or any site would be a copyright issue if the owner of the comments
    'and their expressions' did not authorise content of the email to be posted.\r\n\r\nAlso
    happy clapper or not does not really change if I purchase fonts or not, if they
    however are pushing their religion on me then I have the choice not to visit.
    I don't really see that with Letterhead, though eyebrows high."
  created: '2008-04-19 08:56:45'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "I don't think Chucks religious beliefs have any place in this discussion.
    I'm pretty sure Gutenberg was christian too (yes I am aware that was in a different
    time period).  If we were to avoid buying art, food or even appliances from people
    who had strong religious views that differed from our own, our homes would be
    pretty bare.\r\n\r\nIf he's still making money, Letterhead can charge whatever
    the heck they want. I'm sure if his sales suddenly took a nosedive, he would rethink
    his position."
  created: '2008-04-19 15:18:08'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: "Most of that blog post at Letterhead seems reasonable to me, if fruitlessly
    confrontational - but the last few lines really seem crazy.  I am not anti-Christian
    at all, but I think \"bible thumper\" was a fairly well-chosen phrase.  To think
    that your business is, er, endorsed by GOD?  Seems blasphemous at best.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately,
    a desire for fair compensation is, in this case, counter to good marketing.  He
    could have appealed to people's sympathies by writing a not-condescending blog
    post that explains a bit about  what it's like to make fonts for a living, and
    how his EULA is more reasonable than others'.   Instead of a price-hike, he could
    have offered a $5 discount for people who have never bought a font before, and
    have only pirated.   What a difference that would have made!  Piraters are people
    who WILL NOT buy fonts, unless they feel a personal affinity with the person who
    created the font; seems like the kind, forgiving approach would be both more business-savvy
    and more, well, Christian.\r\n\r\n---\r\neeblet.com"
  created: '2008-04-19 17:38:05'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Strange but inevitable twist to the thread.\r\n\r\nChuck's statement seems
    holistic to me. He said created, not endorsed.\r\n\r\nWhether he is making a business
    mistake remains to be seen. I like that he is standing on principle for better
    or worse. I wish more people would do that. It would be a far more interesting
    and less predictable world.\r\n\r\nMy life has taught me that what other people
    think of me is not important, what I think of them is.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-04-19 18:02:05'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>I don\u2019t think Chucks religious beliefs have any place in this
    discussion. I\u2019m pretty sure Gutenberg was christian too (yes I am aware that
    was in a different time period). If we were to avoid buying art, food or even
    appliances from people who had strong religious views that differed from our own,
    our homes would be pretty bare.</cite>\r\n\r\nI suspect a few designers have lost
    jobs over time because they did not respond with the right enthusiasm to religious
    solicitation from their clients. Pure conjecture, but I do suspect."
  created: '2008-04-19 23:23:47'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Right or wrong, the drama/antics from Letterhead are always entertaining.
    What amusing punishment does he have in store for his customers? Tune in next
    week.
  created: '2008-04-20 22:19:58'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"but he\u2019s the little guy standing up for something he believes in.
    To wish him ill will like this \u2014 it\u2019s stomach turning.\"\r\n\r\nIt shouldn't
    be a surprise to anyone that his rants aren't generating much sympathy from the
    consumer masses. I can't speak for Haley but to me the bible-thumping isn't a
    turn-off in terms of him being religious, but rather a turn off in the sense that
    'God is on my side' which is an argument used by some rather notorious historical
    figures to do things that, I'm sure, any god wouldn't be too happy about.*\r\n\r\n*Except
    maybe Odin or Tyr**. \r\n\r\n** Is there a God of typography? ***\r\n\r\n*** 'cuz
    there really should be."
  created: '2008-04-21 18:33:20'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "<cite>Wow, knowing Chuck\u2019s a bible thumper makes me even LESS inclined
    to buy his fonts than I already was. I hope he does go out of business.</cite>\r\n\r\nWow,
    indeed. I am an atheist, and an anti-bible thumper atheist at that, yet I feel
    completely insulted by this statement."
  created: '2008-04-21 20:23:50'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Cut the cards!\r\n\r\nYes---I am still on holiday. I'm not getting involved
    in this debate, I'm only doing this as a favour to the community and for Patty.\r\n\r\nPatty
    made a negative personal remark about Chuck. Okay---let it stand, but there is
    no need to supress Patty's remark by expressing your revulsion. This is how incivility
    starts and escalates, and typographic discussions get turned into train wrecks.
    One comment pointing out the nature of Patty's remark is all that's required.
    Thankyou, you can all stop now.\r\n\r\nI don't agree with Patty's remark about
    Chuck either, but I defend to the death her right to say it, and her right not
    to be made a victim of personal remarks made about her.\r\n\r\nPatty---would you
    like to post an apology? It's up to you.\r\n\r\nSending you all good vibes. Have
    a better day, I'll be thinking of you all while I finish Pyke's Peak (new font).\r\n\r\nTake
    care :^)\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-04-21 20:52:36'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "@James:\r\n\r\nI agree with much of what you are saying, but I think the
    community as a whole, also has the right to speak out against offensive comments,
    just as Patty has the right to voice her opinion. As long as we remain civil and
    not make personal attacks against each other, everything posted in these forums
    is fair game."
  created: '2008-04-21 21:18:29'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: I'm on Patty's side in this and don't see anything offensive in her comment.
    Living in the heart of the US bible belt I've learned to be very wary of people
    that profess their christianity with words rather than acts. Letterhead is reinforcing
    that lesson. It's not the pirating "punk" that is going to put Letterhead out
    of business. It's the "screw the paying customer" reaction to the punk that is
    going to put them out of business.
  created: '2008-04-21 21:37:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I didn't find Chuck's religious comment the least bit offensive. It's not
    like he's threatening the bullies with eternal damnation.\r\nIt was a few brief
    words at the end of a long and thoughtful essay which systematically addressed
    the issues.\r\n\r\nSecure yourself to heaven, indeed, because you won't get much
    moral support any other way.\r\nSure, people here will sympathisize if you're
    pirated, but if you don't adopt the victim role, who is going to support you?\r\nNot
    the state, as this kind of digital shoplifting is a petty crime that's never prosecuted.\r\nThere
    is a lack of support from Typophiles, otherwise critical of piracy, who seem to
    resent that Letterhead would disrupt their workflow--even if they're not a customer.\r\nThen
    there are the information-wants-to-be-free folk, who think that everybody is guilty
    to some extent (well, all their peers are doing it), therefore it's OK to sin,
    and anyone who thinks otherwise is a fuddy-duddy.\r\n\r\nIn general, people who
    rock the boat do alienate some (especially the status quo), but they also garner
    respect from others, so it's not necessarily bad business to step out of line.
    The digital marketplace is big enough."
  created: '2008-04-21 23:11:30'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "** Is there a God of typography? ***\r\n\r\nI suppose Odin would be pretty
    high up in the ranks, hanging himself on a tree for a handful of runes :)\r\n\r\nOr
    possibly YHWH \r\n\"Twenty-two letters: God drew them, hewed them, combined them,
    weighed them, interchanged them, and through them produced the whole creation
    and everything that is destined to come into being\" -Sefer Yetzirah\r\n\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-04-21 23:15:02'
- author:
    name: typetard
  body: "I think Letterhead have brought attention to stealing and sharing fonts and
    should be applauded for it. However, the charge to make up lost revenue calculated
    by how many downloads counted is crazy, why not just make up a number as I am
    sure his fonts have been shared elsewhere and call it a clean $100 a font for
    the next 5 years.\r\n\r\nto my clients:\r\n\r\nDear clients old, new and potential,\r\nit
    has been brought to my attention that a current client has taken one of conceptual
    designs and used it without paying. Therefore we will be charging all old, new
    and potential 33.3% until we feel the potential earnings have been paid off. \r\n\r\nI
    really love this, I know I have said it before as above though how great, it would
    bring awareness to stealing conceptual designs. And I would 1- get wealthy fast,
    2- go out of business overnight probably during the day. I think just posting
    the clients name all over the website should do it."
  created: '2008-04-22 00:21:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The only issue with posting the clients name is that he/she may not be the
    culprit. What if either someone who works for him or a printer who did a job for
    him was the dirty dealer? The client is then only guilty of assuming honesty among
    his workers. As for making other customers pay for the crimes of another, it is
    like arresting all of your customers who come into your bank the day after the
    bank was robbed. They didn't commit the crime but \"someone\" has to pay for it
    so if you can't find the guilty, charge the innocent just because they are conveniently
    located.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-22 00:34:32'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "... and that would be very unChrist-like\r\n\r\n*shugs, next topic please*"
  created: '2008-04-22 01:16:13'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Is it possible that Chuck is just using this one soul - to set an example.
    To let his purchasers realize that they are responsible for the security of their
    purchase and not let it \"get around the net.\"\r\n\r\nIt turns my own stomach
    when I see libraries of font manufacturers tossed up on a site like the one Chuck
    pointed out. I can remember struggling as a typographer in New York - always having
    to buy the latest, newest font for my Alphatype shop. I remember the huge financial
    burden I took upon myself in 1989-1991 in buying digitized fonts for MAC for the
    shop. \r\n\r\nNo one could ever tell me just how many brands of Garamond I needed
    to please the old typesetting customers who 1) thanked me when they could do it
    themselves and 2) to this day still call trying to figure out what font they used
    way back when....\r\n\r\nFor those of us that have spent our money on fonts we
    have an understanding. I have said this before, and it still baffles me - the
    kid at home with a computer - can pluck more fonts from more manufacturers for
    their computer without paying for it - and imagine- today have a larger (and yes,
    better) collection of fonts then Photolettering did back in its heyday!\r\n\r\nChuck
    is doing something unorthodox. Something we are not use to and we have not seen
    before. Yes, there may be reasons, as business persons, we don't believe in it.
    Many of us are not bible-thumpers -- but in this country weren't we taught to
    respect all religions - regardless?\r\n\r\nI feel like I'm up on a soapbox here
    -- viva la FREEDOM OF SPEECH -- the right to bear arms -- and of course free business
    enterprise. \r\n\r\nWhile I'm at it - take a moment to thank a military person
    these days... "
  created: '2008-04-22 16:12:20'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I am sorry if I offended anyone. But I am likewise offended by those who
    play the \"God\" card inappropriately as I believe Chuck has done. I may be a
    bit oversensitive to religion being used as a cudgel, living in the US in this
    day and age. Again no intent to offend. I've been off the forum for awhile so
    was unaware of the storm I stirred up.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-22 17:46:44'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: I think Chuck played a lot of cards incorrectly in this situation. But he
    is, of course, completely free to do so. ;o)
  created: '2008-04-22 20:52:09'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "to nick: \r\n\r\n>>Sure, people here will sympathisize if you\u2019re pirated,
    \r\n>>but if you don\u2019t adopt the victim role, who is going to support you?\r\n\r\nseriously
    ? if you assume you're a victim you most likely will remain  a victim,\r\nand
    waste a lot of resources playing that game.\r\n\r\n>>There is a lack of support
    from Typophiles, otherwise critical of piracy, \r\n>>who seem to resent that Letterhead
    would disrupt their workflow\u2014\r\n>>even if they\u2019re not a customer.\r\n\r\njustified
    resentment, afaikt. this is a bone-headed move which will only push them faster
    into obscolescence.\r\n\r\n>>Then there are the information-wants-to-be-free folk,
    who think everybody is \r\n>>guilty to some extent (well, all their peers are
    doing it), therefore it\u2019s OK to sin, \r\n>>and anyone who thinks otherwise
    is a fuddy-duddy.\r\n\r\nit's not that simple. this is a rather silly and misinformed
    characterization of many people with many different ideas about what property
    and reproduction mean in the digital age. the most cogent arguments i've heard
    have nothing to do with \"everybody's doing it\". \r\n\r\ni'm in the middle here,
    btw - NOT one of your \"informationwantstobefree\" folk. \r\ni buy my fonts and
    i don't give them away, but i will not be shopping at letterhead anymore, in protest
    to what i see as a completely regressive and counter-productive move on this playing
    field.\r\n\r\n>>In general, people who rock the boat do alienate some\r\n\r\nthis
    is rocking the boat ? not really, just shooting a bigger hole in their own.\r\n\r\n>>but
    they also garner respect from others, \r\n>>so it\u2019s not necessarily bad business
    to step out of line. \r\n\r\ntime will tell. not sure how raising prices and sending
    ridiculous and indefensible invoices garners respect.\r\n\r\n>>The digital marketplace
    is big enough.\r\n\r\nexactly why this is a bone-headed move ! \r\nimprove business
    by raising prices and punishing legit customers ? \r\nmarketing genius ! come
    on back for more !\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-23 00:25:48'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "HOLD THE PHONE, IS THIS MOFO FOR REAL?\r\n\r\nhttp://letterheadfonts.com/fonts/garner1000.shtml"
  created: '2008-04-23 02:12:54'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: The world's first $1,000 font. Now I think that's funny. :-)
  created: '2008-04-23 02:35:29'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "now i like him. now i want it. now i'll try to convince my client to go with
    it. \r\nmmm, the value fetish is surely the most intoxicating of all..."
  created: '2008-04-23 03:18:47'
- author:
    name: russ_mcmullin
    picture: 112437
  body: 'The one I feel bad for is Duncan Wilkie. He can''t be making much off his
    font in the midst of this firestorm. '
  created: '2008-04-23 03:22:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Sorry, changed my mind.
  created: '2008-04-23 05:47:29'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Backslider
  created: '2008-04-23 05:56:33'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: http://letterheadfonts.com/fonts/garner.shtml ?
  created: '2008-04-23 06:04:29'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "I don't get it. Is he hoping someone clicks on the wrong link now? I'm assuming
    it's a joke, as Tiffany's link still works.\r\n@ mike, Where did you get that
    link? I can't even find it on his site."
  created: '2008-04-23 13:44:02'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "If you click the banner that says $1000 font, you'll get here (the same link
    as before)\r\n\r\nhttp://letterheadfonts.com/fonts/garner1000.shtml\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1000_6399.jpg]"
  created: '2008-04-23 13:51:35'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Is it a joke or whining? Meh. Either way, I guess he's getting publicity.
  created: '2008-04-23 14:56:50'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: Could it be brilliant publicity for an affordable American vernacular type
    that is very popular right now?
  created: '2008-04-23 15:48:14'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Well I guess we can add that to the list whenever someone comes here asking
    for fonts that say "Luxury", which happens with some regularity.
  created: '2008-04-23 15:50:29'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Could it be brilliant publicity for an affordable American vernacular
    type that is very popular right now?</cite>\r\n\r\nNot enough people care about
    the price of fonts for this to be brilliant publicity. Now if he claimed to have
    induced numerous abortions, photographed the results, and was going to project
    it all onto bloody letters in an academic gallery\u2026but I digress."
  created: '2008-04-23 16:48:23'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "You might be on to something, James...perhaps Chuck is just in the midst
    of an elaborate performance art piece!\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-23 17:26:10'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "^ it worked for Jesus\u2026"
  created: '2008-04-23 18:31:16'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Oh my. America at its best.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-04-26 08:48:07'
date: '2008-04-16 17:15:45'
node_type: forum
title: Letterhead Fonts and their battle

---
