---
author:
  name: lourettab
body: "I'm trying to understand the legal issues in using fonts in logo designs and
  in other ways. I tried searching the forums (and Google) but can't seem to find
  anything definitive about this.\r\n\r\nI read that \"fonts cannot be copyrighted\"
  (meaning the letterforms themselves) but that the \"programs\" (the actual font
  files) used to control them can. I also read that if you convert a font to outlines,
  there are no copyright issues at all and the outlines can be used freely since the
  actual letterforms can't be copyrighted. This sounds a bit bizarre to me. Is it
  true?\r\n\r\nIf this is the case, does that mean the paradigm is that you (as a
  designer) purchase a font so that you can legally use it to create a document (a
  newsletter for example), then render the letterforms (by printing the document,
  converting the letters to outlines, rasterizing the document, etc.) so the document
  doesn't contain the actual font \"program\" itself so you can freely distribute
  the document without paying the font's owner any licensing fees?\r\n\r\nFrom what
  I've read of the court rulings on this issue, it seems the intention was to avoid
  a situation where a fontmaker could require that a reader purchase a font themselves
  and own a license to it before they can legally obtain a copy of a document set
  in it, since that would mean for example that anyone who wanted to read a magazine
  would have to buy licenses to all the fonts used in it first. That makes sense -
  if a font owner could do that, it would be like Berol \"copyrighting\" their colored
  pencils and saying that anyone who wanted to buy a drawing made with them would
  have to buy a license to the pencils themselves first. So the letterforms in a font
  would be like the pigmented \"lead\" and the font file would be like the wood tube
  that it comes in. (Hopefully that makes sense.)\r\n\r\nSo, is this actually true?
  If it is, does it extend to using fonts in logo designs as well? And if the situation
  doesn't work this way, how does it work? There seems to be a lot of confusion on
  this based on the message threads I've been reading."
comments:
- author:
    name: nmerriam
    picture: 109650
  body: "Your understanding is essentially correct in the USA. The actual software
    (the font file) is protected by copyright, so everyone who uses the font on their
    computer needs to buy a copy or have a license. But the visual image of the font
    and the outlines generated by Illustrator to be used in a logo have no protection
    whatsoever.\r\n\r\nThe legal reasoning is that the alphabet itself is purely functional,
    but the software that makes up a complete font is a creative work.\r\n\r\nSimilarly,
    the information printed in the phone book is factual and anyone can reproduce
    it, but the phone book itself is protected by copyright because that particular
    chosen arrangement of the collection of facts is a creative work."
  created: '2008-04-17 03:42:43'
- author:
    name: lourettab
  body: "Thanks nmerriam \r\n\r\nI had no idea that the legalities of typefaces were
    so...strange? I always assumed that typefaces were copyrightable and that in order
    to use a typeface for something you had to have a specific license to use it in
    that way. Personally I don't see how anyone can say \"that drawing of a cat is
    copyrightable but that drawing of the letter 'A' isn't\", but I'm sure I'm not
    the only person who disagrees with the way the court handle this. :-)\r\n\r\nI
    don't mean to explicitly lay out all the ways in which people can legally steal
    font creators' work, but I want to understand the situation as well as possible
    so I thought of some examples.\r\n\r\nSay you purchase a font from a foundry with
    different licensing agreements based on the way you're going to use the font.
    For example, they have a \"basic\" license that lets you use the font for setting
    general type like body copy, then a more-expensive license that that you must
    purchase to use the font to create a logo design. Since the letterforms aren't
    copyrightable, does that mean you can legally purchase the less expensive license,
    type out all the letters in the font in Illustrator, convert them to outlines,
    and then use the outlines to create a logo design without having to pay for the
    other license? If this is the case, why do they even have a license like that
    in the first place? It seems like this is an instance of someone essentially trying
    to \"trick\" people into thinking they have to purchase licenses they can can
    legally avoid purchasing, which seems about as unethical as stealing letterform
    designs. Shouldn't font creators be trying to change the laws by suing people?
    I know it's not that easy, and I'm not saying people should be expected to create
    designs and just let people do whatever they want to with them without paying
    them. I just want to know what the \"courts\" say about it, whether it makes sense
    or not.\r\n\r\nAlso, doesn't this mean that you can alter the letterforms in a
    font without permission even if the license agreement specifically says you can't
    create \"derivative works\" or \"manipulate\" the letterforms? As long as you're
    not altering the font program itself, there's no legal issue, right? For example,
    say I use a font I've purchased to create a logo of the word \"Forkz\", but I
    want to change the K so it joins up with the Z. This is legal as long as I convert
    the letters to outlines (which you would have to do anyway) even if the license
    says I can't alter the letterforms, right? Having a general stipulation like that
    in a font license would be invalid to begin with, right?\r\n\r\nI guess what I'm
    trying to ask is, does the license for a font only extend to the program and not
    in any way to the letterforms contained in it? If this is the case, why don't
    people just make new fonts using the letterforms contained in existing fonts?
    Once again, let me say that I don't think this is \"right\" in any way, and I
    would never do that myself. I'm just trying to understands the situation.\r\n\r\nOne
    more example. Say you've purchased a font that contains the usual tyopgraphic
    symbols, plus a drawing of a monkey that was created by the font creator. The
    tyopgraphic symbols would be uncopyrightable, but since the money isn't a letterform,
    it would be protected by copyright, right? The font creator wouldn't have to have
    a \"design patent\" for that symbol in order to lay claim to the design, right?
    So, for instance, the designs in a font of \"dingbats\" WOULD be protected as
    long as they were unique enough to be copyrighted? Like, a generic five-pointed
    star wouldn't be protected, but a five-pointed star with a human face drawn inside
    would be?\r\n\r\nSorry about the length of this post, I'm just interested in the
    intricacies of this."
  created: '2008-04-17 04:47:05'
- author:
    name: nmerriam
    picture: 109650
  body: "No worries on the detail, I actually started mentioning some of those points
    in my earlier response but didn't want to muddy the issue :)\r\n\r\nYou understand
    pretty much everything. Fonts can certainly contain objects that aren't letterforms,
    and any of those could be protected as images by copyright because they aren't
    functional (your contrasting star examples are perfect). There's no easy way to
    know at what point a court would consider an image an original creative work.\r\n\r\nIn
    terms of licensing and limitations on use, the only way to enforce a restriction
    would be through contract law, not copyright. Whether or not (and in what ways)
    a standard EULA can restrict use can be a contentious issue around here, so I
    won't give you a simple answer, but in terms of copyright law, once you have the
    shape of the letter, you can quite literally do whatever you want with it.\r\n\r\nYou
    can indeed drop your type into Illustrator, convert to outlines, and then adjust
    whatever you like in order to make a logotype fit together better. You could also,
    as you suggest, convert or scan every letter in a face and then make your own
    font out of it and resell it. But you'll have to go through and do all the hinting,
    all the kerning, all the testing and balancing over again, which is a lot of time-consuming
    skilled work. If you remember those CDs that were popular in the 90s with 5,000
    fonts for $49, generally they were filled with fonts that were made in just that
    way (except without all the care!). The quality of a font made that way is not
    very high -- its one of those things that sounds a lot easier than it really is
    :)"
  created: '2008-04-17 11:16:06'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>For example, they have a \u201Cbasic\u201D license that lets you use
    the font for setting general type like body copy, then a more-expensive license
    that that you must purchase to use the font to create a logo design. Since the
    letterforms aren\u2019t copyrightable, does that mean you can legally purchase
    the less expensive license, type out all the letters in the font in Illustrator,
    convert them to outlines, and then use the outlines to create a logo design without
    having to pay for the other license?</em>\r\n\r\n<em>Also, doesn\u2019t this mean
    that you can alter the letterforms in a font without permission even if the license
    agreement specifically says you can\u2019t create \u201Cderivative works\u201D
    or \u201Cmanipulate\u201D the letterforms?</em>\r\n\r\nAs I understand it: No,
    you're not allowed to do this. Because you licenced the font you are bound by
    the licence agreement. Copyright laws don't apply unless there are any illegal
    licence terms in the EULA, in which case only these terms would be void and legal
    restrictions or permissions  determined by copyright laws would replace them.\r\n\r\nThere
    are, however, certain conditions in which a licence agreement is not effective.
    For example, in Germany, if you purchase software on a physical medium, your right
    to use the software comes from the possession of the medium, so any licence agreements
    you have to accept later (e.g. when installing the software) are void. Then your
    use of the software would only be bound by copyright laws.\r\n\r\nThat being said,
    I'm not a lawyer.\r\n\r\nJens"
  created: '2008-04-17 11:38:19'
- author:
    name: Pablo Defendini
  body: "This is fascinating, and a very much needed topic for discussion. \r\n\r\nIn
    the spirit of continuing the discussion, I'd like to postulate a hypothetical:
    As we've seen here a few days ago, web browsers (particularly WebKit/Safari) are
    starting to correctly parse CSS3, including the 'embedded fonts' feature. This
    conflicts sharply with most foundry's EULAs regarding uage of their font files.
    From what I'm reading here, would it not be an acceptable (in a practical sense-ethics
    aside) end run around this issue to take the font you want to use, create outlines
    in Illustrator, create your own font file from these outlines (hopefully with
    attention paid to kerning tables, hinting, etc., of course!), and use that as
    the embedded font in your website?\r\n\r\nWhile it would seem to me that the foundry's
    EULAs are in sore need of rewording in order to reflect current and future usage
    practices, this would seem, at face value, as an alternative to exposing yourself
    to litigation, while still enjoying the new typographical features available on
    modern browsers.\r\n\r\nAny thoughts?"
  created: '2008-04-17 18:04:48'
- author:
    name: nmerriam
    picture: 109650
  body: Pabla -- your situation is certainly possible (again, in terms of copyright
    -- whether or not the license prohibits it and is binding in your jurisdiction
    is a totally separate issue). But like I said, the quality of such a project is
    generally not going to match up with expectations. You'd certainly get a much
    better looking site by using well-designed, professionally optimized fonts that
    are allowed to be downloaded, or are widely distributed, than trying to hack out
    look-alikes of some offbeat face. It's much simpler to use existing image replacement
    techniques for headings and other small blocks where a really unique face needs
    to be used.
  created: '2008-04-18 02:47:40'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I'm not a lawyer, and this is a legal question for which you really ought
    to consult a lawyer.\r\n\r\nThat being said.... At least in the USA, the outlines
    from the font software ARE protected by copyright. At least, that's how I as a
    non-lawyer read Judge Whyte's summary judgment ruling in the Adobe vs SSI case.\r\n\r\n\"Adobe
    claims there is some creativity involved in the manipulation and editing of the
    on-curve and off-curve reference points. Defendants claim there is no protectable
    creativity contributed by the editor in determining the desired character outline
    for each font.\"\r\n...\r\n\"The evidence presented shows that there is some creativity
    in designing the font software programs. While the glyph dictates to a certain
    extent what points the editor must choose, it does not dictate every point that
    must be chosen. Adobe has shown that font editors make creative choices as to
    what points to select based on the image in front of them on the computer screen.
    The code is determined directly from the selection of the points. Thus, any copying
    of the points is copying of literal expression, that is, in essence, copying of
    the computer code itself.\"\r\n\r\nFull decision here: http://directory.serifmagazine.com/Ethics_and_Law/Copyright/judgement.php4\r\n\r\nNow,
    most licensing of fonts seems to allow you to use the outlines for things like
    logos. But that doesn't mean there's no copyright inherent in the outlines.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-04-18 10:42:02'
- author:
    name: Pablo Defendini
  body: "@ nmerriam,\r\n\r\nOh, don't get me wrong: I agree wholeheartedly\u2014a
    lot of work goes into a good, quality professional font, and it would be bad craftsmanship
    to use anything other than that. I was just postulating the situation as a hypothetical,
    concentrating on the legal issues involved, to the exclusion of all else."
  created: '2008-04-18 15:00:10'
- author:
    name: nmerriam
    picture: 109650
  body: Just to clarify what seems to be a contradiction between what I've said and
    what Thomas is talking about -- while the shapes of the letters are not protected,
    the specific selection of points and curves that the creator uses to accomplish
    that shape is protected by copyright. Anyone who works with bezier curves knows
    that you can create the same shape a thousand different ways, and doing a literal
    point-for-point, curve-for-curve duplication or derivation of someone else's choices
    isn't allowed (much like the phone book case, where the arrangement itself is
    a creative work).
  created: '2008-04-19 06:13:03'
- author:
    name: joslog
  body: "similar question, which may be already answered here, but if someone can
    confirm...\r\n\r\nif i draw a new version of Century (for example), which i create
    by making outlines of an existing licensed century in illustrator, but i alter
    every letter, and hire someone to rekern and program into a newly named century,
    could i be sued?"
  created: '2008-06-02 18:51:14'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"could i be sued\"\r\n\r\nYou can always be sued."
  created: '2008-06-02 19:34:26'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: '@joslog -- Why would you do that to begin with?'
  created: '2008-06-02 22:12:38'
- author:
    name: joslog
  body: 'miss tiffany: i would do it because i want a custom version with thinner
    serifs, for example, and couldn''t find anything like this already in existence'
  created: '2008-06-02 23:53:28'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Oh. For internal use only. I was thinking you'd be selling it again. \r\n\r\nWell
    the problem really is then does the EULA allow modifications? And, do you care?"
  created: '2008-06-03 01:51:44'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Thomas: <em>Now, most licensing of fonts seems to allow you to use the outlines
    for things like logos. But that doesn\u2019t mean there\u2019s no copyright inherent
    in the outlines.</em>\r\n\r\nThat is correct. And thanks for making the reality
    of copyright and intellectual property so plain and clear. \r\n\r\nMy latest creation,
    <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/46088\">Pyke's Peak</a>, comes in two versions,
    the commercially licensed Pyke's Peak, and the \"zero cost\" version, Pyke's Peak
    Zero. PP Zero has an internal EULA text built into the OTF font file. The font
    file's header copyright notice clearly states in summary: \r\n\r\n\"Copyright
    (c) 2007 - 2008 Typeface designed by James Arboghast. Published by Sentinel Type.
    All rights reserved worldwide. This is the \"zero cost\" version of Pyke's Peak,
    meaning you may posess and use the digital font file for zero cash outlay, but
    the commercial rights to the font data & intellectual property contained in it
    are not free in any way. You may distribute this font without permission on internet
    font archive sites and other media provided you do not charge money for it or
    try to pass it off as your own work. Please read the End User License Agreement
    embedded in this font file for details.\"\r\n\r\nPP Zero is a significant release,
    as the zero cost license allows personal as well as commercial use and \"embedding\"
    using the CSS @font-face property. The integral EULA text:\r\n\r\n\"S E N T I
    N E L  T Y P E  End User License Agreement\r\n\r\nYour use of this digital typeface
    is conditional upon on your acceptance, without modification, of the terms and
    conditions expressed herein. Your use of the typeface is deemed to indicate your
    acceptance of all such terms and conditions. If you do not agree to the terms,
    promptly destroy all materials.\r\n\r\nSentinel Type is:\r\nJames Arboghast\r\n7a
    Belford Road\r\nKew East 3102, Victoria\r\nAUSTRALIA\r\nEmail: arboghast@hotmail.com\r\n\r\n1.
    USE\r\n(i) Sentinel Type grants to you only, the User, the non-exclusive, non-transferable
    right to use and display the font for personal and commercial purposes. The font
    may be used on an unlimited number of CPUs and other computers and connected to
    any number of printers or other image producing devices at your site. \r\n\r\n(ii)
    You may send a copy of the font with your documents to a commercial printer or
    other service bureau to enable editing or printing of a document, provided such
    party has informed you that it acknowledges this license agreement. \r\n\r\n(iii)
    You may embed fonts within documents such as .DOC and .PDF for the viewing and
    printing of those documents. You also may use the font on webpages posted on the
    World Wide Web by linking to a copy of the font file on a web server by using
    the @font-face CSS property.\r\n\r\n(iv) You may distribute this font without
    permission provided the .ZIP package with EULA text, documentation and accompanying
    materials remains intact. You may upload the font file to bulletin boards, archive
    sites and include it on CD ROM collections, but you may not modify or rename it,
    claim it as your own work or charge money for it. The font data and artwork design
    are protected by this End User License Agreement and by U.S and international
    copyright laws.\r\n\r\n(v) You agree to use this font for lawful purposes only,
    and not to modify, adapt, translate, publish, reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble,
    create derivative works of, licence or sell the font without Sentinel Type's prior
    written consent.\r\n\r\n2. COPYRIGHT\r\n(i) Rights: this font file and the artwork,
    typeface design and data are protected by this agreement and by international
    copyright law. These rights are valid and protected in all media and technologies
    existing now or later developed. Except as explicitly provided otherwise, this
    agreement, applicable copyright and other laws regulate your use of the font.
    At a minimum Sentinel Type asserts its right of ownership of the intellectual
    property contained in the typeface and accompanying materials.\r\n\r\n(ii) Proprietary
    Rights: All contents of the Sentinel typeface are (c) copyright Sentinel Type/James
    Arboghast 2004. All rights reserved. All rights not expressly granted here are
    reserved.\r\n\r\n(iii) Copying and Backups: You may make as many copies of the
    font file for backup purposes as you see fit, provided the copyright and trademark
    notices and accompanying materials are reproduced in their entirety in the backup
    copy.\r\n\r\n(iv) Infringement: You may be held legally responsible for any infringement
    of Sentinel Type's intellectual property rights caused or encouraged by your failure
    to abide by the terms of this agreement.\r\n\r\n3. DISCLAIMER and WARRANTY\r\n(i)
    Sentinel Type warrants this font to be free from reasonable defects in materials
    and workmanship under normal use for a period of 90 (ninety) days from the date
    of acquisition. \r\n\r\n(ii) Each user must evaluate and bear the risk inherent
    in any reliance on the accuracy, completeness or usefulness of the font. The font
    and its content are provided \"as is\" and \"as available\" without warranty of
    any kind, either express or implied, including warranty of merchantability or
    fitness for a particular pupose, unless such warranties are legally incapable
    of exclusion. In no event shall Sentinel Type be liable for any direct, indirect,
    punitive, incidential, special or consequential damages arising out of the use
    of or inability to use this font, even if Sentinel Type has been advised of the
    possibility of such damages. In states that do not allow limitation of liability
    for incidental damages ST's liability shall be limited to the extent permitted
    by law.\r\n\r\nShould you have any questions concerning this End User License
    Agreement, or if you desire to contact ST for any reason, please contact Sentinel
    Type in writing.\"\r\n\r\nAs far as creating derivative outlines and using them
    in a logo or a webpage, the EULA specifically prohibits that:\r\n\r\n\"(v) You
    agree to use this font for lawful purposes only, and not to modify, adapt, translate,
    publish, reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble, create derivative works of,
    licence or sell the font without Sentinel Type's prior written consent.\"\r\n\r\nAnd
    as the EULA text states, the user's use of the font is conditional upon their
    \"acceptance, without modification, of the terms and conditions expressed herein.\"\r\n\r\nEnd
    of story.\r\n\r\nBut PP Zero remedies that with its generous licensing terms for
    CSS webpage embedding and no logo fee, so users <em>don't need to</em> create
    derrivative works from it. They can simply use the font instead and be happy :^)\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-06-05 20:20:02'
- author:
    name: JosafeenGrey
    picture: 115252
  body: "This is the best thread i have found on the topic. \r\nso james, when you
    say commercial use (as in the paid licensing), do you mean redistribution? I'm
    trying to get a grip on what exactly commercial use is, and frankly most eulas
    are very very muddy (or they seem so to me). AND, the times that i have called
    to find out specifically if my use was covered, i got a runaround (ambiguous answers
    and no returned phonecalls or emails ) go figure.\r\nAnyway, i have no interest
    in creating derivitives or redistribution, my use is solely as a designer. I understand
    that all tou's/eula's are going to have different intents, but i thought i'd pick
    your brain for some insight. :-)\r\nTIA"
  created: '2008-06-20 16:51:15'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "The best way to discuss a specific part of a EULA is to have a specific EULA
    in mind. Do you have a specific foundry you are curious about?\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.p22.com/comlicensing.html\">P22</a>,
    for instance, does a very good job in explaining their<a href=\"http://www.p22.com/support/license.html\">EULA</a>."
  created: '2008-06-20 19:29:19'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@JosafeenGrey: <em>...so james, when you say commercial use (as in the paid
    licensing), do you mean redistribution?</em>\r\n\r\nFor Pyke's Peak Zero and its
    Zero Cost EULA, users may distribute (redistribute) the font file on an unlimited
    number of web servers as a download for redistribution provided they don't charge
    money for it or claim it as their own work. PP Zero may also be \"embedded\" on
    webpages using the CSS @font-face property which requires the font to be installed
    on a web server as a live webpage resource, in unlimited fashion.\r\n\r\nThat
    means PP Zero may not be redistributed on a commercial basis, ie: distributed
    \"for profit\" by charging money for it.\r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019m trying to get a grip
    on what exactly commercial use is...</em>\r\n\r\nI define \"commercial use\" as;
    Use of the font for the purpose of promoting a commercial product, goods sold,
    or a service that makes its proprietor a monetary profit. That definition is not
    in my Zero Cost EULA, but the term \"commercial use\" is adequately defined by
    common commercial law in most countries. My commercial rights and \"right to profit
    from my invention\" are guaranteed by common commercial law, just as they are
    for any other merchant or entrepreneur.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-06-20 21:37:39'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Arbo: <em>That means PP Zero may not be redistributed on a commercial basis,
    ie: distributed \u201Cfor profit\u201D by charging money for it.</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    the font may certainly be used for commercial purposes, ie: for making a profit
    out of&#8212;whatever you can think of as long as the profit-making is legal.
    PP Zero may also be used for personal purposes, ie: non-profit activities.\r\n\r\nThese
    license conditions do not apply to the commercial version of the font, Pyke's
    Peak, which has strict license conditions on distribution, ie: no, it  cannot
    be freely distributed or used on webpages with the CSS @font-face rule as PP Zero
    can be.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-06-20 22:50:03'
- author:
    name: Okay
    picture: 113699
  body: "So can I throw an ethics question into this one (although I think I may know
    the answer)?\r\n\r\nI am designing a new mark for myself.  I have not found the
    typeface I find suitable, although I have found one that is nearly there, but
    needs manipulation of its outlines in order to behave the way I would like it
    to. \r\n\r\nQuestions:\r\na) Do I need to purchase that face in order to legally
    manipulate it?  (process would be: A screen capture of the typeface, trace the
    letters I am interested in changing by creating my own curves in Illustrator,
    and then manipulate the forms to my liking.\r\nb) Do I have the legal right to
    manipulate that typeface in the first place? or is that dependent on the user
    license agreement?\r\n\r\nRegards\r\nOkay"
  created: '2009-05-24 17:50:37'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "There are several aspects to this. I'll point out that I'm not a lawyer,
    and you're really wanting legal advice, so you might be best off talking to a
    lawyer. Frank Martinez is knowledgeable in this area, for instance.\r\n\r\na)
    do you need to purchase it first? The common wisdom in the type design community
    is that the usage you describe would not violate US copyright law. (Your user
    profile says you're in the US, so we'll assume this is the relevant question.)
    However, the recent paper by J.D. Lipton suggests that the matter isn't completely
    certain. I'd add that it would presumably violate a design patent, if one existed
    for the typeface. But if there's no design patent, and you trust the \"common
    wisdom,\" then no, you don't need to license it to do the usage you describe.\r\n\r\nb)
    If you do license it, then it becomes dependent on the license agreement in addition
    to other restrictions due to copyright or design patent. \r\n\r\nThe simplest
    thing might be to identify the font, and ask the folks who sell it.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-05-25 22:43:13'
- author:
    name: Okay
    picture: 113699
  body: "Thanks Thomas, I'll follow your advice.\r\n\r\nOkay"
  created: '2009-05-25 23:54:14'
- author:
    name: CameronWilliams
    picture: 117391
  body: "Dear Okay:\r\n\r\nWhat you are describing is a creative act, and you violate
    no copyright agreements by manipulating the character(s) in this manner. You make
    decisions about where to place your control points, orientation of the handles,
    etc., so you are creating a new, copyrightable work of art. It's not much different
    than my taking a photograph of a sculpture in a public plaza; while the sculptor
    may own the rights to his work, my photo is a creation in and of itself; I must
    make decisions about composition, exposure, lighting, and so forth. Note, however,
    that the sculpture is in a <em>public</em> plaza; artist\u2019s works in museums
    are usually protected from being photographed without express permission.\r\n\r\nIt
    gets a bit murkier when one creates outlines from an existing typeface, and then
    modifies them; one would then be using the control points determined by the original
    creator, arguably a violation of the EULA. But if one creates outlines, rasterizes
    them, and then uses the rasterized file as a reference to create new vectors,
    that would be a new creation. The law, at least, seems to be even more arcane
    than typography."
  created: '2009-05-29 03:30:29'
- author:
    name: Kari Breed
  body: "Not to make a complex subject simple, but if I look at a font's properties
    and find no copyright notice, am I in the clear to use the font? I am designing
    a book cover for a book to self-publish, and I'm also designing my own logo. \r\n\r\nThanks!"
  created: '2009-07-02 11:31:48'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: "Kari - No. All font usage should be based on the license with which the font
    was received. If you're not sure, use a web search (or even post on Typophile)
    to find the correct copyright holder and ask them specifically about your particular
    use case. Even if there is no posted copyright, the fact that the item \"exists\"
    means whoever originally created it has some form of rights ownership on that
    particular item. \r\n\r\nAt any rate, your question should be directed towards
    the creator of the particular font about what is or isn't allowed with their creation.\r\n\r\nI
    am not a lawyer and this should not be construed as legal advice. Hire a lawyer
    if you have legal questions etc."
  created: '2009-07-04 04:07:53'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Since 1968 the use of a copyright notice (including that nice \xA9) is not
    mandatory. Copyright is establiched by default thru the first publication, which
    in the case of a computerfile could be the first transfer from one directory to
    the other.\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-07-04 21:57:34'
- author:
    name: Aaron Thesing
    picture: 117597
  body: "Hopefully this question is on topic enough:\r\n\r\nIf I have fonts that were
    already on my Mac when I bought it, and came with Adobe's Creative Suite, I have
    the rights to use those fonts, yes? I've already effectively paid for their licensing.
    Do I have the right to use them on invitations or greeting cards I design and
    may sell?\r\n\r\nI assume the answer is yes, but this seemed the best place to
    clarify.\r\n\r\nThanks for any help."
  created: '2009-07-11 20:24:14'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "As always, it depends on what the license terms say. You should read the
    licenses for Mac OS and for the Adobe software the fonts came with. If anything
    is unclear, in principle you ought to consult a lawyer. Not that anybody usually
    does, but that's the theory.\r\n\r\nIf you want a non-legally-useful opinion?
    For these two sources (Apple and Adobe), I'm pretty sure you're fine designing
    and selling greeting cards or making invitations using the fonts. However, there
    are some foundries that have additional requirements, such as crediting the foundry
    on the card or some such. Some require additional licensing fees when the font
    makes up the primary element of the item you are making, such as magnetic letters
    for a fridge. But AFAIK Apple and Adobe have no such interesting issues.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-07-11 20:39:36'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: If you bought the Mac new, and bought the Adobe CS new with it, then IMO you
    are entitled to use them for anything commercial (allowing for the same disclaimer
    as in the preceding post). If you bought the Mac second hand and Adobe CS was
    on it, that might be an altogether different matter ...
  created: '2009-07-12 01:15:46'
- author:
    name: Aaron Thesing
    picture: 117597
  body: "I bought both of them new.\r\n\r\nAny idea where I'd begin looking for the
    license info?"
  created: '2009-07-13 15:07:18'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Try <a href="http://www.adobe.com/aboutadobe/antipiracy/ff_faq.html">this
    first</a>, perhaps.
  created: '2009-07-13 18:46:31'
- author:
    name: TraceElements
  body: "There are a couple of fonts on the Veer website that I really want to use
    in logos, but this is what the license agreement says: \r\n\r\n------\r\nYou may
    not:\r\n\r\nuse a font and/or pictoral elements such as dingbats as part of a
    copyrighted logo, trademark or service mark. For example, you cannot copyright
    a specific glyph or multiple glyphs from a font when you copyright your logo,
    trademark or service mark;\r\n------\r\n\r\nThis is really lame. Does this absolutely
    mean there is no way I can use ANY letters from these fonts in any logo designs?"
  created: '2009-08-09 06:11:33'
- author:
    name: TraceElements
  body: 'Re: My last post. It looks like this agreement clause is specific to Veer.
    Other websites selling the same fonts do not have this clause in their license
    agreement. Interesting.'
  created: '2009-08-09 06:31:58'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "> This is really lame.\r\n\r\nAbsolutely. One does not copyright a trademark!
    One registers a logo, picture or likeness as a trademark. Leastways, that's my
    understanding.\r\n\r\nI know, not the point you're addressing, but it's odd seeing
    something like that in a supposed legal agreement. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-08-11 04:42:21'
- author:
    name: cenizo
  body: I've got to agree, the issue TraceElements brings up is really confusing.
    Veer puts designers in a very uncomfortable situation. I wish there was clarification
    on whether Veer really does disallow you to use type purchased from their website
    in logos that you wish to protect.
  created: '2009-12-02 14:09:15'
- author:
    name: GothmogII
  body: "Just wondering specifically on the use of font elements/characters or even
    whole individual characters in the creation of logos.\r\n\r\nThat is, if as many
    logos go, they comprise of two elements: An image/logo and type (Or even wholly
    one or the other). Is it then therefore legal to use certain characters in a type-face
    to create a logo image in it's entirety. Could one say, take the 'O' from the
    Arial font and form a logo out of it? As an example, maybe having the O's overlapping
    each other to form a chain.\r\n\r\nOr, does this fall under the idea that it is
    not fair use unless the logo in question has been created entirely from scratch,
    or as someone mentioned above, inspired by the initial font design, rather than
    making direct use of the design from the get go.\r\n\r\nI guess: Is it okay to
    use letter based fonts in this way and not image based ones such as dingbats etc.,
    or, does it simply fall foul of copyright either way?\r\n\r\nI've a feeling it'll
    be the latter ^^', but, just needed a clarification all the same. "
  created: '2010-03-03 12:22:01'
- author:
    name: kmorr11
  body: "I'm new to this game, and much of the thread has been confusing (I imagine
    because there are so many gray areas), but it does sound like many of you know
    what you are talking about. I have a real scenario:\r\n\r\nI am starting my own
    company, and am in the process of creating a new logo, business cards, website,
    maybe even a marketing brochure. The company logo will have a design element,
    along with the name of the company. I really like the Clarendon family of fonts
    for this logo, and specifically want to use the condensed font in the logo, and
    the other font family members in various text for the other materials. I have
    two questions:\r\n\r\n1) When I surf the web, I can find sites where I can download
    the family for free, and others where I have to pay for it. If I could find it
    for free and download, why wouldn't I just go ahead and do that, and am I violating
    any laws by doing that (and how would I know?)\r\n\r\n2) Assuming I can either
    download for free or buy it for a \"reasonable\" price, can I use the typeface
    in my logo and in my other business-related material (I am not looking to resell
    the font in any way) without any additional cost or legal issues? \r\n\r\nI want
    to do the right thing, but I don't want to overcomplicate it either. Other people
    I know who have started their own companies and did their own graphics paid absolutely
    no attention to any of this...\r\n\r\nI'm looking for very specific next steps
    so I can get this venture up and running asap.\r\n\r\nThoughts?\r\n\r\nThanks
    all!"
  created: '2010-03-11 17:07:11'
- author:
    name: Jennifer E. Dahl
    picture: 110983
  body: .
  created: '2010-03-11 17:23:33'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>If I could find it for free and download, why wouldn't I just go ahead
    and do that, and am I violating any laws by doing that (and how would I know?)</cite>\r\n\r\nOne
    of the biggest problems with free font sites is that some of the fonts are commercial
    fonts. In some cases this is the entire point of the site, but even on sites that
    do not allow pirate fonts users rename commercial fonts and upload them. If you
    don\u2019t do enough design work to know which is which just buy a font. Really,
    they\u2019re not that expensive.\r\n\r\n<cite>can I use the typeface in my logo
    and in my other business-related material</cite>\r\n\r\nYou need to read the license
    of a font before you buy it. Few font licenses will prevent you from using the
    the font in your day-to-day business materials or logos, but they are out there. "
  created: '2010-03-11 18:02:04'
- author:
    name: kmorr11
  body: "Thanks for the response & advice, James!\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-11 18:58:33'
- author:
    name: k2snowboarder9
  body: Is it legal for a school to put a legally purchased font onto a central server
    and have the computers that are connected through its network use that font for
    school related projects?
  created: '2010-09-22 23:31:33'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: "It depends on the EULA of course. One can purchase broad licenses from some
    foundries.\r\n\r\nBut this use would be outside the use allowed by most \"off
    the shelf\" EULAs."
  created: '2010-09-24 11:44:12'
- author:
    name: robarnow
  body: Also, just to clarify, one can definitely get a design patent, which will
    protect the design itself completely, for 14 years. A copyright offers a far longer
    term of protection, but the patent is a good start. The name of the font can also
    be trademarked, so that if you develop recognition of the name, even if someone
    steals the design, you'd still have the advantage of the naming rights.
  created: '2010-11-16 19:46:32'
- author:
    name: bencrow
  body: "Okay, so I'm the editor and (given the size of the staff) designer for my
    school newspaper. We reach maybe 220 people max, and print 125 copies. I was looking
    for a way to get Poynter Agate for free one day and I stumbled upon a Yahoo! Answers
    page that had a guy giving a link to Font Bureaus fonts. Like, at least one hundred
    fonts. Not the newest stuff, but a ton of stuff that would have cost thousands
    of dollars if I had bought all the licenses. \r\n\r\nThen, I found a BitTorrent
    file that had 65k fonts on it. Mostly they're junk but it probably has several
    hundred commercial fonts.\r\n\r\nI really don't like using these fonts illegally.
    However, there is no way in the world that my school newspaper would ever in a
    million years be able to pay like $600 to use each of the fonts. We're not making
    any money off of this, and in the future if I ever worked at a real newspaper
    of any kind (including college papers for example), I wouldn't use these \"bootlegged\"
    fonts.\r\n\r\nNow my question is, in essence, what are the ethics of this, and
    what are the actual legal issues in doing this. Are the font companies going to
    sue my school, sue me? And basically, since I assume the answer to that is no,
    since they probably have no clue I exist, and are probably more focused on serious
    abuses of their copyrights, what do you guys think of me doing this?\r\n\r\nI
    would ideally like reassurance that while what I'm doing may not be strictly kosher,
    it's not horrible either. I am open however, to being shamed into deleting these
    font files from my computer and going back to producing a paper consisting 90%
    of Georgia.\r\n\r\nThe reason I use the commercial fonts is because, obviously,
    they make the people look 1000 times better, which makes people read it. And in
    an age in which nobody reads the paper, especially teenagers, I feel like anything
    I can do to attract readers is worthwhile.\r\n\r\nThoughts?"
  created: '2011-01-20 09:23:35'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "There are good fonts available for free, and the advice would be to go for
    that!\r\n\r\nFor example the Russian Paratype foundry has issued free fonts paid
    for by the Russian government which supports Latis script and every script used
    in Russia itself. PT Serif and PT Sans. The Serif is a bit squared, slightly condensed,
    tall x-hight, fresh and modern font, which could be easily used as a newspaper
    font. It is slightly more condensed than Utopia for example, which is a classic
    for newspapers. \r\n\r\nPT Sans is pretty useful, there is as well a condensed
    version, which could substitute Poynter Agate, as there are 2 Caption (small text)
    weights, 4 normal weights and 2 condensed weights.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.paratype.com/public/\r\n\r\nUtopia
    itself comes for free too, in an older version. A classic newspaper Serif\r\nhttp://www.ctan.org/tex-archive/fonts/utopia/\r\n\r\nOther
    free serifs, maybe not for newspaper, but good quality and several weights (regular,
    bold, italics) are\r\nBergamo, Gentium, Droid Serif, all on http://www.fontsquirrel.com
    Gentium and Droid could be useable. \r\n\r\nJunicode, a text face following the
    English tradition, condensed, but long descenders and ascenders, so it would be
    only so so for newspaper. http://junicode.sourceforge.net/\r\n\r\nThere is a free
    Garamond version, again maybe not that suitable for newspaper, as it has a rather
    small x-height and more wide characters. Garamond 8 from URW: http://www.artifex.com/downloads/
    \r\n\r\n\r\nAnother useful sans is aller in 7 weights\r\nhttp://www.fontsquirrel.com/fonts/Aller\r\n\r\nAnd
    Lato - a sans in 10 weights\r\nhttp://www.fontsquirrel.com/fonts/lato\r\n\r\nReally,
    with this choices, you do not need to steel others work, if there are some people
    giving away their work for free. \r\n\r\nI did not check any of their licences
    for your specific use, so do this please before using them. \r\n\r\nbest\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-21 00:15:05'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "In addition (newsletter mileage varies):\r\n\r\nTypes from the [[http://arkandis.tuxfamily.org/|Arkandis
    Digital Foundry]].\r\n[[http://www.linuxlibertine.org/|Linux Libertine/Biolinum]].\r\nVarious
    classics from [[http://www.aimwell.org/Fonts/fonts.html|AIM]].\r\nLido STF, a
    [[http://www.stormtype.com/|Stormtype]] giveaway.\r\nNeat display types, the [[http://www.kingthingsfonts.co.uk/|Kingthings]]."
  created: '2011-01-21 11:16:01'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@paragraph\r\n\r\nThe Adobe \"Anti-Piracy\" FAQ says:\r\n\"Generally, font
    software is copyrightable.\"\r\nWell, how about ungenerally, then? Really, this
    seems like a weasel. It made me laugh."
  created: '2011-01-21 17:34:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Louretta: <em>I feel like anything I can do to attract readers is worthwhile.</em>\r\n\r\nOnce
    you start to believe that the end justifies the means, you\u2019re on a slippery
    slope.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Alack, when once our grace we have forgot,\r\nNothing
    goes right! we would, and we would not.\r\n\u2014Shakespeare (Measure for Measure)</blockquote>"
  created: '2011-01-21 18:34:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Not to forget Malory's definitive compilation <em>Le Morte D'Arthur</em>\r\n<blockquote>\u2026which
    copy Sir Thomas Malorye did take out of certain books of French, and reduced it
    into English.  And I, according to my copy, have done set it in imprint, to the
    intent that noble men may see and learn the noble acts of chivalry, the gentle
    and virtuous deeds that some knights used in those days, &c., &c\u2026\"</blockquote>\r\n\u2014according
    to Caxton's preface (1485).\r\n\r\nI wouldn't say that Caxton was attempting to
    justify Malory's appropriation of foreign texts by the virtue of his disseminating
    their nobility, because nobody then would have seen anything wrong in Malory's
    modus operandi.\r\n\r\nThe ethics of copyright, and the laws, have evolved over
    time.\r\nBut Shakespeare's observation (via the role of Angelo) holds up. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-21 21:30:54'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Nick, why'd you have to quote that slimeball pirate Shakespeare?\r\n\r\nFrom
    <a href=\"http://www.rhetoricainc.com/MellinkoffLecture.html\">The David Mellinkoff
    Lecture: 8 February 2007, UCLA Law School</a> by Professor of Rhetoric Richard
    Lanham, also of UCLA.</a>\r\n\r\n\"It is no exaggeration to say that Chaucer could
    not have put forth most of his work had he worked under current copyright law.
    One can easily imagine the letters of warning he would have gotten from agents
    and copyright lawyers and the permissions he would have had to pay, if he had
    been lucky enough to be allowed to pay them\u2014and could have found the money.
    \r\n\r\n\"But Chaucer\u2019s difficulties would have seemed trifling to a later
    pillar of English literature, <strong>William Shakespeare</strong>, had he lived
    in our current copyright world. Almost all his plays have sources, some of them
    very close. Take, for example Romeo and Juliet. Shakespeare\u2019s immediate source
    was a poem by Arthur Brooke, The Tragicall Historye of Romeus and Juliet, published
    in 1562, some 35 or 40 years before Shakespeare\u2019s version. Shakespeare\u2019s
    play follows Brooke\u2019s poem in embarrassing detail, everything almost, except
    poetic quality. Brooke\u2019s poem is excruciatingly dull, Shakespeare\u2019s
    play has given love its native language. This huge difference, this unbridgeable
    gulf, would not have protected Shakespeare from Brooke\u2019s wrath, had they
    both lived in the present climate, however, because artistic quality is not allowed
    as a criterion in copyright cases. But Shakespeare could have pointed out, in
    self-defense, where Brooke stole the story from. It was not theft, Brooke might
    have replied, but honest borrowing since his (that is, Brooke\u2019s) title page
    says \u201Cwritten first in Italian by Bandell\u201D (a short-story writer named
    Bandello, whose stuff was often \u201Cadapted\u201D into French by someone named
    Belleforet) and his (again Brooke\u2019s) \u201CTo the Reader\u201D preface mentions
    a play on the same subject \u201Clately set forth on stage.\u201D \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-21 21:42:34'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Ben: Why not just contact Font Bureau and see if they can do you a special
    deal of some sort?\r\n\r\nSometimes smaller foundries are quite willing to give
    discounts for such cases. Heck, when I was at Adobe I occasionally used my employee
    discount to buy software (including sometimes fonts) and just give it to non-profits
    I liked.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-01-21 22:39:59'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "@Richard Fink\r\nSorry, I was asleep (since 13.Jul.2009 10.46am). Doesn't
    time fly!\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-22 08:59:43'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@paragraph\r\n\r\nGo back to napping. I'm sorry I woke you. It wasn't worth
    it. Sorry.\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2011-01-22 14:54:26'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">However, there is no way in the world that my school newspaper would ever
    in a million years be able to pay like $600 to use each of the fonts. \n\nDo you
    use stolen Macs or bootleg copies of InDesign at the school? If not someone must
    have felt the equipment and software was worth the investment."
  created: '2011-01-27 05:34:27'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "bencrow:\r\n\r\n> <cite>Are the font companies going to sue my school, sue
    me?</cite>\r\n\r\nNobody will have the courage to sue you or your school.\r\n\r\nRead
    the last messages of this thread for explanation:\r\n \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/78027"
  created: '2011-01-27 05:53:03'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Don't believe most of what Uli says about intellectual property as regards
    fonts. He is demonstrably wrong most of the time.
  created: '2011-01-27 15:30:46'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Does that factor in that he's a German and you're a Merkin?
  created: '2011-01-28 12:27:48'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> and you're a Merkin\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Merkin"
  created: '2011-01-28 13:22:54'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Uli, you are <em>soooo</em> not an AFPer. Merkin == USAmerican.
  created: '2011-01-28 13:47:02'
- author:
    name: d.miller
  body: "Hey, i was hoping you could help me.\r\nI am illustrating a book in which
    the author has used many kinds of fonts,and now he is not sure if it is legal
    or not. \r\nHe has made it my job to find out all about it.\r\nDo i have to check
    font by font if it has copyright or not, or should i contact the designer? how
    do i find out which fonts are protected and maybe should ne baught?\r\nplease
    let me know if you have any idea.\r\n\r\nthank you \r\n D."
  created: '2011-04-26 09:40:14'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "The simplest possible advice I can think of:\r\n\r\n1. Anything from a torrent
    (or other bulk download) site, is best not used for publishing.\r\n\r\n2. Anything
    the author acquired legally is very likely safe to use."
  created: '2011-04-26 22:18:22'
- author:
    name: Pmac
  body: I apologize if this question has already been covered.  If you design a t-shirt
    graphic with  various typefaces, you outline all type and then sell the design
    who is responsible for the licensing?  The designer, the person who bought the
    design and then reproduced it, or know one since the font was outlined?
  created: '2011-05-25 03:54:06'
- author:
    name: kurtnewman
  body: "There are two ways you can find and fulfill with company attorneys in Florida.
    One is the conventional way of recommendations. The second is through the Internet,
    where you can check out a company's website. Generally, a company attorney would
    provide lawful guidance, guidance, and reflection.\r\n<a href=\"http://www.theinvfirm.com/tenant_screening.html\">tenant
    screening</a>\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-11 07:31:34'
date: '2008-04-17 03:18:00'
node_type: forum
title: Legal issues with using fonts?

---
