---
author:
  name: kj
  picture: 113586
body: "Hello.\r\n\r\n> Is there a way to view Armenian websites on a Mac? \r\nI use
  firefox as my browser.\r\n\r\n> I have already bought Hrant's Maral from Linotype,
  and I have Arasan.\r\nAm sure there are other Armenian typefaces that I can buy
  for a Mac, but I couldn't find any for sale. Can anyone help me out in this? \r\n\r\nCheers"
comments:
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Two fonts with Armenian support should be already included on your Mac (at
    least in Mac OS X 10.5), Mshtakan and Arial Unicode. If one of them is installed,
    Armenian websites should be displayed properly.\r\n\r\nJens"
  created: '2008-04-23 19:04:48'
- author:
    name: kj
    picture: 113586
  body: "I have a Mac OSX 10.4 and it didnt come with either :S\r\nIs there a way
    to solve this? "
  created: '2008-04-23 19:11:14'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Go to this menu in your Font Book:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/menu_3555.png]\r\n\r\nMikey
    :-)"
  created: '2008-04-23 19:39:42'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Use your OS X installer CDs/DVD to install the additional fonts.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-04-23 20:44:56'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "<em>Use your OS X installer CDs/DVD to install the additional fonts.</em>\r\n\r\ngulp...
    this reminds me, I scratched mine all up... double gulp"
  created: '2008-04-23 21:06:46'
- author:
    name: kj
    picture: 113586
  body: "umm...mind my ignorance... never thought of doing that...\r\n\r\nThanks guys...
    most of the sites are working now.\r\nexcept this one though >>> http://www.aztagdaily.com/DisplayPage.php\r\n\r\nUmm...
    what about Armenian typefaces for sale? Anyone can help in that? "
  created: '2008-04-24 06:34:28'
- author:
    name: kj
    picture: 113586
  body: "Btw... Mateo I got the first part of the quote \"the future is a thin line...\"
    but didnt get the rest. Can u translate please? \r\n\r\nYo comenzar\xE9 a aprender
    espa\xF1ol pronto :) :)"
  created: '2008-04-24 06:40:21'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Aztag Daily doesn't work for me either.  You may need to play around with
    the text encoding.  Armenian isn't on my list of encodings to switch to so I couldn't
    test this morning (gotta head off to work in a sec).\r\n\r\nThe quote says, \"The
    future is a line so fine that we barely realize that we ourselves draw it\" \r\n\r\n
    <em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla
    nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-04-24 07:00:16'
- author:
    name: kj
    picture: 113586
  body: "Have a nice day Mateo.\r\nBut may i ask why the interest in Armenian?"
  created: '2008-04-24 07:34:21'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'I plan to make a mono one of these days ( madness I expect ) but in reality
    you will be waiting for a few years. '
  created: '2008-04-24 11:04:18'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Yeah, that Newspaper page is ARMSCII-8 encoded, not Unicode. (That's like
    pages still encoded Latin-1, Latin-2, etc. instead of Unicode: very common).\r\n\r\nYou
    have to change the Encoding in your browser, something like: View > Encodings
    > [Other > SE and SW Asia] > Armenian (ARMSCII-8).\r\n\r\nThen it works fine.\r\nI'm
    such in love with the looks of the Armenian script!"
  created: '2008-04-24 12:28:41'
- author:
    name: kj
    picture: 113586
  body: "Hey 'aszszelp' thanks for the help.\r\nI'm Happy ur in love with the looks
    of the Armenian script.\r\nBeing an Armenian and knowing that is flattering, tnx."
  created: '2008-04-24 12:57:28'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Hm, something like that would flatter me too in a reciprocal situation...\r\n\r\nbut
    then again: the script is not your achievment, but St. Mesrop's, so that feeling
    is somewhat out of place <strong>;-)</strong>"
  created: '2008-04-24 13:41:08'
- author:
    name: kj
    picture: 113586
  body: "Thank you for the Info :) :P 'aszszelp'\r\nWe have been studying about St.
    Mesrop Mashtots ever since kindergarten.\r\nSo maybe I misused the word 'flattered'."
  created: '2008-04-24 14:51:47'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "No, no, as I already put it: it's a <em>natural</em> feeling even in such
    cases... it's just not <em>rational</em>.\r\n\r\nBut the human existence as such
    is not rational, so..."
  created: '2008-04-24 17:12:28'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "Ahh... Armenia... this brings back memories. Probably the most hospitable
    place in the world.\r\nI wish I took pictures of the church walls, beautifully
    carved with the Armenian characters.\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-04-24 17:43:28'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "ARMSCII-8... I don\u2019t seem to have access to this on the mac."
  created: '2008-04-24 20:14:12'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Firefox has it. Firefox is available for Mac. When saying, \"I don't seem
    to have access to this on the mac.\" do you mean Safari?\r\n\r\nIt's not much
    supported (as I'm just reading on Wikipedia) as it was started being developed
    in 1991 (till 1999).\r\n\r\nUnicode also supported Armenian since the 1.0.0st
    version (published October 1991), so that's why the 256-char encoding did not
    catch on much, I guess."
  created: '2008-04-24 20:41:57'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Yes, I meant Safari.\r\n\r\nI put ARMSCII-8 into Firefox and I got garbled
    text.\r\n\r\nMikey :-)"
  created: '2008-04-24 22:11:33'
- author:
    name: kj
    picture: 113586
  body: "No Firefox is working very well with me Mike.\r\nGo to View >> Character
    Encoding >> More Encodings >> SE & SW Asian >> Armenian (ARMSCII-8)\r\n\r\nThats
    wat i did and it worked properly.\r\n\r\nDo u guys read Armenian?\r\n\r\nYeah
    I read the same article A. apparently the Unicode concept hasn't well spread in
    the Armenian based websites. I know a couple of people in Aztag Daily, maybe i
    should tell them about this.\r\n\r\nGuys no one still told me about Armenian typefaces
    for sale? no clue?"
  created: '2008-04-24 23:47:03'
- author:
    name: kj
    picture: 113586
  body: Oh and Ivan you should definitely go there again to take pictures :)
  created: '2008-04-24 23:48:45'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "I did that\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2_6169.png]\r\n\r\nand
    i still get question marks\r\n\r\nhmm..."
  created: '2008-04-25 00:01:06'
- author:
    name: kj
    picture: 113586
  body: Hmmm... Maybe you also need to activate the Armenian in the system preferences.
  created: '2008-04-25 00:18:06'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "how do I that?\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-25 01:03:19'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: It works for me with Firefox/MacOS 10.5 without doing anything special, other
    than choosing the character encoding.
  created: '2008-04-25 01:34:23'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "KJ: maybe this ressource helps:\r\n\r\nhttp://cg.scs.carleton.ca/~luc/armenia.html\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-25 08:19:31'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "I have 10.4, perhaps that\u2019s why its not working."
  created: '2008-04-25 08:37:25'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "the fact that you see ?s and not garbled text lets me assume that you simply
    don't have fonts installed that support armenian.\r\n\r\nif it was an encoding
    issue, you'd see garbled \"latin\" text (as you do when you open up the page initially)."
  created: '2008-04-25 10:21:09'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: Look at the <A HREF="http://www.myfonts.com/search?search%5Btext%5D=unicode">MyFonts
    results for the search term "Unicode".</A> You can find Armenian in many of the
    fonts that try to cover as much of the entire world as possible. If one of the
    little blue icons beside each font shows a capital To, it has Armenian in it.
    Check the codepages to see what it looks like -- sometimes the style is completely
    different from the other alphabets in the font!
  created: '2008-04-26 12:17:33'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "I downloaded the font \"Arial AM\" on a PC and then installed it on my mac.
    Here  is what I can see with Safari on OS X 10.4.11. Since I don't read Armenian,
    I can't be sure this is right. In any case, my guess is that you should find answer
    to your question  <a href=\"http://www.tarumian.am/\">here</a>. \r\n\r\nMichel\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aztag_6003.jpg]"
  created: '2008-04-27 03:21:04'
- author:
    name: kj
    picture: 113586
  body: "Hey Michel, thanks a lot.\r\nThis is Armenian allright. \r\n\r\n\r\nK J"
  created: '2008-04-27 06:19:25'
- author:
    name: Carolyn Puzzovio
    picture: 114850
  body: "(Even though I'm not Armenian) I'm working on new OpenType fonts with Armenian
    and Latin characters, using the latest Unicode version.\r\nI've recently finished
    'Lagoon' - which is based on the type found in an antique book printed in Venice.\r\nIt
    has very many ligatures - a lot of work! At the moment I'm giving away a few CDs
    of fonts (fully compatible with Mac/PC).\r\nKJ - email your postal address and
    I will send you a CD with this and other Armenian/Latin fonts. All I ask is that
    you let me know what you think of my work. Thank you.\r\n\r\nCarolyn P"
  created: '2008-04-27 22:01:20'
- author:
    name: kj
    picture: 113586
  body: "Hey Carolyn, I will be happy to receive and check your work.\r\nHere's my
    postal address:\r\n>\r\n>\r\n>\r\n Khajag Meguerditch Apelian\r\n P.O.Box 150
    850\r\n Sharjah UAE.\r\n>\r\n>\r\n>\r\n\r\nK J"
  created: '2008-04-28 08:52:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Khajag, as you've probably noticed, Arasan is not Unicode. As you've found
    out however Mshtagan  (which is Unicode) does come with OSX. It's decent. But
    don't use Arial-Unicode's Armenian - it's quite horrid, and full of structural
    mistakes.\r\n\r\n> what about Armenian typefaces for sale?\r\n\r\nIronically enough
    it's hard to find an Armenian font for sale; people who design Armenian fonts
    don't expect to get any money for them! So they just give them away. This is of
    course why most Armenian fonts are so crappy.\r\n\r\nBesides the great classicist
    work done by Carolyn, I have a font called Nour (in four weights) which has won
    two competitions (one by the UK magazine Creative Review, the other by the government
    of Armenia). It attempts to be highly authentic but equally readable, and has
    a somewhat elaborate relationship with a Latin counterpart (called Patria). It's
    all Unicode (although I have it in other encodings too). Please feel free to contact
    me: hpapazian at gmail dot com.\r\n\r\n> ARMSCII-8 [is] like pages still encoded
    Latin-1, Latin-2\r\n\r\nIt's certainly worse than that. ArmSCII-8 is one of two
    quasi-standard 8-bit encodings; the other is mine (the one in Arasan).\r\n\r\n>
    the script is not your achievment\r\n\r\nWell, we all participate. In fact some
    scholars think what Saint Mesrop invented looked quite different originally, and
    it's when the scribes started using the new script at speed that it started looking
    a bit Greek.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-10 18:02:41'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>Mshtagan (which is Unicode) does come with OSX. It\u2019s decent.</em>\r\n\r\nDecent?!
    That's a gross overstatement, to say the least. Mshtakan is neither decent, appealing
    or even well executed. Having it as a system font is a disservice to the improvement
    of contemporary Armenian typography. There are free Armenian fonts out there that
    are *way* better than Mshtakan. I have nothing against Michael Everson, but the
    design of Mshtakan is simply too poor to fit the bill of a system font. I mean,
    have you tried to read a webpage with that thing?\r\n\r\nSeriously, can this be
    called \"decent\"?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Mshtakan_4740.png]\r\n\r\nEven
    people that never saw a ja (&#x0571;) and have no clue of what it's supposed to
    look like will say it was drawn by a child.."
  created: '2008-10-10 20:33:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I hereby stand accused of being too nice.\r\nLet the court records show this.
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nI once consulted casually on the font (in fact I came up with the
    name - it means \"eternal\" - Everson, get it?) but if I ever saw that \"ja\"
    I'm sure I told Michael that it's a disaster!! Puke freely, man. In fact the version
    I saw might have had a decent one. I'll have to check my old (pre-Gmail) emails.\r\n\r\nSo:
    I retract my positive comment - thank you Miguel. Also: Sylfaen (which comes with
    Windows) has a pretty good Armenian component (but the Georgian is a caricature).
    Another bit of evidence (as if we needed more) that Microsoft cares more about
    type than Apple. Apple certainly cares about buffing titanium though.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-10 20:55:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So I went back and checked my emails from that time (from 12/2002 to 2/2003)
    and it looks like I warned him on at least four occasions that the \"ja\" was
    no good. Here's an example of what I wrote:\r\n\r\n\"\r\nThe ja totally doesn't
    work...  :-(   That squiggle\r\nlooks like a diacritic. And none of the three
    in your\r\nsequence are usable. Try making the ascender part of\r\nthe righthand
    stroke of the base.\r\n\"\r\n\r\nThe thing is, later on he showed me some alternates,
    one of which was decent, and I told him so. So I sort of assumed he used that
    one (or a better one) in the end. I guess not.\r\n\r\nAlso, I had helped him out
    more than I remembered, and seem to have asked him for some crediting, but never
    got confirmation of that. Is there any crediting in Mshtakan (not Mshtagan BTW)
    that anybody can see? I don't have a Mac handy.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-11 18:51:01'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hrant, there either is no crediting to you, or I am too stupid to find it.
    \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mshtakan_5213.png]"
  created: '2008-10-11 23:24:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thanks for checking.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-12 00:03:10'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I was looking through my fonts I have for armenian and might have found part
    of the problem.  While all the rest of the (granted, rather limited) Armenian
    fonts I have tend to have quite varied metrics, Mshtakan shares more than a few
    similarities with another font that I presume is well distributed (if not, as
    already noted by hrant, well designed).  Mshtakan is black, Arial Unicode is blue.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/armenian_comparison_5905.png]\r\n\r\nThe
    metrics are nearly identical, although Mshtakan (which as far as I know was designed
    to be more of a screen font) is bolder.  But the x-heights, ascender and descender
    height are nearly identical.  Some of the more unique letters seem to be almost
    traced out of Arial Unicode.  Specifically, \u0567, \u056A, \u056E, \u0571, \u0573,
    \u0574, \u0582, and \u0586.  I'm not saying he copied it of course, but he has
    a very clear influence (although, to his credit, he did go for what, if I've learned
    well from hrant and I'm sure he'll correct me if I be wrong, is a far better and
    more authentic \u0570 and \u0576, and actually got the \u0584 correct).\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>\r\n\r\n[side note: hrant,
    within about a week or two once I'll have an interesting setup for the italic
    of Coru\xF1a with regards to Armenian]"
  created: '2008-10-12 04:23:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nice investigation.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure what Michael would have gained by
    copying the metrics from Arial. Arial's Armenian is neither passable nor in much
    use AFAIK. Tracing* on the other hand is advantageous - but of course not OK,
    at least not without permission and crediting.\r\n\r\n* By which I have to ask
    what exactly you mean.\r\n\r\n> the x-heights, ascender and descender height are
    nearly identical.\r\n\r\nHow nearly? Because in the past I've been surprised at
    how close I've come on occasion myself. After I made Patria I was curious to compare
    it against two highly reputable fonts: Times and Georgia. To my shock all three
    were quite close in vertical proportions! Plus as with the metrics, I can't think
    of a good reason to copy it. That is, unless Arial was in fact a direct source
    for the outlines (at least some of them) in which case it would be natural to
    keep the vertical proportions (and maybe change them a hair to divert suspicion).\r\n\r\nConcerning
    the \"ho\", IIRC* he asked me about which form to use and I strongly recommended
    what I consider to be the authentic form (especially since his design is classicist)
    and he used that. The \"now\" is the good form too (although the rendering is
    cruddy). Here BTW is a collage of the evolution of the \"h\", from the original
    capital, to the superb classical lc form, to the sad, Latinized junk from the
    70s:\r\n\r\n_\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ho_evolv_3601.gif]\r\n_\r\n\r\n*
    I really don't want to go back and read those disheartening emails again...\r\n\r\nLastly,
    the Arial \"keh\" is Latinized and not to my liking, but it is in fact a valid
    historic form, so not totally off the wall. The Arial \"sha\" however, even though
    it does have some precedent from the 20th century, is almost as bad as the \"ja\"
    (that in fact Michael seems to have sadly used as a model).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-12 17:02:58'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "When I said traced I didn't mean it quite so literally.  But, \u056A, \u056E,
    and \u0567 seem to curve virtually identically (cf to the letter f or \xF0, which
    start their curves at different points in different fonts, and varies its degree
    of overhang and level and angle of cross bars).  I'm not suggesting he intentionally
    copied Arial, but just might have thought of Arial too closely as a model.  I
    can't remember who said it on here, but I remember someone mentioning that the
    biggest problem Latin-native designers have with something like Cyrillic is that
    we tend to be at times too conservative as a sort of crutch.  Maybe that was part
    of the case.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos
    damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-10-13 00:53:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, conservatism is highly recommended for non-natives! It's pretty much
    impossible to truly innovate in a script without a feeling for the intangibles,
    something that can only be acquired informally over many years, preferably before
    a certain age (like 10). The thing is, even conservatism requires finding good
    models to emulate, and this is best done by asking natives. And then listening
    to them.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-13 01:33:23'
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: "My stars, Hrant. The mails you wrote me in 2002 were a lot more encouraging:
    <cite>So I took a look at your revised font: Wow, what a difference! I think the
    slant is a good amount. For the spacing you might consider making it even slightly
    looser. Don't worry about the liwn, it's pretty normal that way. Some people would
    call this very old-fashioned, but in the conext of all the contemporary crap that
    passes for Armenian fonts these days, I think this is a worthwhile effort. The
    main thing now would be to polish the forms. As for the name, maybe call it \"Mshtakan\",
    which means perpetual: it plays well with your last name, as well as the design's
    \"old\" nature.</cite>\r\n\r\nI never looked at Arial Unicode. My source for shapes
    was font showings in Darbinyan 1965 and Gorcakalyan 1973. I sent you a copy of
    Darbinyan.\r\n\r\nI remember (six years on) some of the discussion we had about
    ho and ja and so on. I checked to see what ja variants I had, and it seems that
    you didn't like any of them. I'd be happy to improve the ja. I have a chance to
    do a update on the font just now. Perhaps there is no redeeming it in your eyes,
    Hrant, but if ja and anything else wrong with it can be corrected, I'll be happy
    to do so with your advice, which I respect.\r\n\r\nMichael Everson\r\nevertype.com"
  created: '2008-12-15 11:12:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Michael, I've been meaning to reply all this time (I wasn't\r\nbeing courteously
    quiet or dismissive anything) and I'd like\r\nto get this off my shoulders before
    ATypI-Dublin...\r\n\r\n(BTW, did you edit your post at some time? Because I have
    this\r\nmemory of it being more... defensive. Or maybe I'm getting old.)\r\n\r\nThe
    operative thing here is *2002*. Back then things were much\r\nbleaker in the Armenian
    type design scene, and your design was\r\nrefreshing in its conservative stylistic
    authenticity. Since then\r\nit's improved quite a bit, so things are more competitive.
    But really\r\nI think Mshtakan is still pretty usable... EXCEPT for the \"ja\".
    \ :-/\r\n\r\nAlso, once again about the crediting: it would be nice to see my\r\nname
    mentioned somewhere (in passing, nothing major) as an\r\nadvisor or consultant
    or some such thing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-31 15:16:18'
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: "I read this only now, after we met at ATypI... so for the purposes of the
    list\u2026 There is in fact scope for a revision of the font and I should be delighted
    to fix the loathesome ja (and the black star which oodles of people bemoaned),
    and to include crediting, because you did offer plenty of good advice in 2002.
    \r\n\r\n(My own records don't show any discussion about crediting for what that
    is worth. Maybe not much. Anyway now is now.)"
  created: '2010-09-13 16:13:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sounds good.\r\nAnd it was a distinct pleasure meeting you in person!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-14 04:02:14'
- author:
    name: 15levels
    picture: 124200
  body: "Hello everyone... joining quite late this discussion, however I know I am
    not the only one who is trying to replace the disastrous Mshtakan on Lion. I still
    cannot find a way to do it. Can someone recommend if that can be done at all and
    if yes, then how?\r\n\r\nMany thanks,\r\n\r\nRuben\r\n\r\nps. BTW, you are welcome
    to take a look at my calligraphy works, if interested ... http://15levels.com/art/armeniancalligraphy"
  created: '2012-02-06 17:25:30'
- author:
    name: Tom Gewecke
  body: '@Ruben  Could you explain in more detail what  your problem is?  Can''t you
    just remove it and replace it with the font of your choice?'
  created: '2012-02-07 14:14:49'
- author:
    name: 15levels
    picture: 124200
  body: 'Tom, I cannot find a way to define a default Armenian font in Mac OSX Lion.
    Will it work if I rename another Armenian font "Mshtakan" and delete the original
    one? '
  created: '2012-02-18 17:53:04'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Reuben\r\n\r\nI could find no documentation (in a language I can read) on
    the subject. Using the Unix <code>find</code> command, I got that Mshtakan appears
    in two property lists in a subfolder of <code>/System/Library/Frameworks</code>,
    \r\nnamely\r\n<code>\r\nAppKit.framework/Versions/Current/Resources/NSFontFallbacks.plist\r\n</code>\r\nand\r\n<code>\r\nCoreText.framework/Versions/Current/Resources/DefaultFontFallbacks.plist\r\n</code>
    in the subfolder<code>\r\nApplicationServices.framework/Versions/Current/Frameworks/\r\n</code>
    of <code>/System/Library/Frameworks</code>\r\n\r\nThe file DefaultFontFallbacks.plist
    is easy to read with a text editor and well commented. I googled for those file
    names and obtained only posts for Chinese, Japanese and Korean (for which the
    default font fallback mechanism takes the language into account), including a
    complete installation script (download <a href=\"http://hwnsdh.tistory.com/attachment/cfile7.uf@134C68414F18D0621BE28F.command\">MacOSXDefaultFontFallbacksChanger.command</a>).\r\n\r\nFor
    Armenian,  it seems to me that all you need to do is to replace Mshtakan with
    the postscript name of the regular you prefer (using <code>sudo vi</code> on them,
    for instance) and then reboot. I tried on OS X 10.6 with DejaVuSans (just to check)
    and it worked fine (so far as I can tell) but   don't forget to take a backup
    before making any modification. The font fallback files also allow choosing a
    different font for a sans, a serif, etc.\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-19 20:49:45'
- author:
    name: Tom Gewecke
  body: '@15levels  The renaming is worth a try, but what happens when you just remove
    Mshtakan from its font folder?  Presumably another Armenian font will always be
    used as the default.'
  created: '2012-02-21 13:23:08'
date: '2008-04-23 18:50:37'
node_type: forum
title: Armenian on Mac

---
