---
author:
  name: Michael Wallner
  picture: 112671
body: "A former employer of mine has asked me to design a custom typeface for them.
  The project really excites me, but I have never done a custom face before and really
  feel a little overwhelmed at the prospect of creating one. They have been using
  an instance of Myriad MM that the designer created and they really like it but they
  need to have complete rights to the typeface as they want to include it in downloadable
  media kits for ad campaigns. They are looking for the typeface to have, as they
  say \"a neutral sans feeling to it\" similar to Myriad. They need regular, semibold
  and bold weights (no italics) that include all the glyphs needed for both the English
  and Spanish language. Since this is my first time through this process I want to
  give them a single price and not by the hour because it will most likely take me
  longer to complete the design. I have no idea what a custom typeface should cost
  and am looking for some help in figuring out what to charge them. I would really
  appreciate to hear any ballpark figures on where to start with the cost, or any
  good guidelines to figure that part out.\r\n\r\nI also need to give them some rough
  timeline for the completion of the design.\r\n\r\nAny help is really appreciated,\r\nMichael\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "The previous edition of the graphic artists guild handbook has real numbers
    in it; the current version does not. Typophiles can\u2019t easily discuss the
    numbers without running afoul of antitrust laws in Europe, the US, and some other
    nations."
  created: '2008-04-23 20:23:15'
- author:
    name: Michael Wallner
    picture: 112671
  body: Thanks James, I completely forgot about the book. I'll start there.
  created: '2008-04-23 22:24:18'
- author:
    name: Nicole Dotin
    picture: 110879
  body: "Michael, send me an email and we can chat off-list if you like. \r\nRegards
    from downtown Mpls."
  created: '2008-04-23 22:39:52'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "While mentioning actual prices is frowned upon, discussing formulas to help
    others arrive at their own sum is not. Suggesting things to consider and what
    price you think they are personally worth as far as your time goes is always useful.
    For design it sometimes gets broken down like so: \r\n\r\nDesign, meetings, production,
    emailing, price of printouts, cost of media used (CD's/DVD's), cost for purchased
    materials (fonts, or images), kill fee, late fees, outside of project scope fees,
    releasing materials, the use of said materials (Logo design and branding or just
    a business card), and you don't really want the work, the PITA tax. \r\n\r\nOnce
    you have a dollar figure assigned to those, you can then look at the project,
    reasonably estimate your time, for each time consuming item, and work out a price
    accordingly. For this I'd imagine you'd want to know how many people will access
    it, wether you can resell it later, etc\u2026 which will all change the cost of
    releasing your work to the client."
  created: '2008-04-23 22:53:36'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "One of the main reasons to create original, from scratch, custom fonts is
    to offer the client a licensing program that they can implement without running
    afoul of any derivative works clauses in existing fonts. Since you say they want
    to include it as a downloadable font for their media kit, you are proposing an
    worldwide enterprise license.\r\n\r\nA place to start in pricing something like
    this is to look at what foundries charge for this level of  licensing for their
    existing fonts. You will find a wide range of prices, depending on the desired
    font(s). It would be common to pay anywhere from $6000 to $10,000 to $15,000 per
    font for this type of enterprise license. If these are the prices your client
    will have to pay for an enterprise license for existing font then what is an original
    font for their world-wide use going to cost them?\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2008-04-24 14:40:16'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "As to time frame, One an approach is decided upon, I can create a alphabet
    in a day or two. How fast do you work? \r\n\r\nHow confident are your clients
    in their idea? Do they diddle around, or do they make decisive decisions?\r\n\r\nThe
    general rule of thumb is it takes 100 hours to create a complete 256 character
    set font. Do you feel comfortable with that or, since you say this is your first
    time doing this, will it take more time?\r\n\r\nJames\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-24 14:57:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "James is the Nolan Ryan of glyph Design :-) \r\nMichael, you won't be anywhere
    near as fast as the Montalbano express!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-24 15:20:39'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I have no idea what a custom typeface should cost and am looking for some
    help in figuring out what to charge them.\"\r\n\r\n(Time it takes to complete
    * your hourly rate) + 'additional value/discounts' = that's what to charge)\r\n\r\nPS...is
    this the Mike from Stout? (If so, this is the Darrel from Stout...Hi!)\r\n\r\nPPS...talking
    about specific pricing online is hardly price fixing. But, talking about specific
    pricing online is hardly useful, anyways, given the vast range of regions, talents,
    skills, expenses, business models, etc.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-24 16:21:50'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Do not look at custom font pricing the same way as general graphic design.
    (Or hanging drywall for that matter)\r\n\r\nAlways look at the licensing issue
    instead of just  how much time it takes times the hourly rate. You could almost
    argue (almost!) that you can do the design for free if the licensing fees are
    respectable enough. And make no mistake, in the end what you are doing is not
    selling your client a custom font. What you are doing is licensing your client
    a custom solution based on their needs, and your intellectual property. A custom
    solution that you own and manage, and that you could reuse providing your legal
    counsel writes the license in the proper way.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2008-04-24 16:34:25'
- author:
    name: Michael Wallner
    picture: 112671
  body: "In some ways I am more confused and overwhelmed than I was when I posted
    this question. I was looking for an easy answer, and like life in general, there
    just isn't one. Several things that I did not and would not have thought of have
    been mentioned, so thank you. I think part of my problem is that since this is
    my first time through this I don't think I can price it the same way that the
    more experienced and knowledgable designers would. Although I can compensate for
    this with my hourly rate. My other issue is that they are more of a non-profit
    group, and not a corporation with more funds. If I overprice this, they may not
    go for it and I would really like to do the project.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-24 22:26:05'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Hey, Michael: Regards from semi-downtown Saint Paul. I have absolutely no
    experience with this. Just thought I'd add my hello. Good luck with this.\r\n\r\nwill"
  created: '2008-04-24 22:53:18'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Given all the Twin Citian's in this thread, we really should all meet for
    coffee/beers and talk this over...
  created: '2008-04-25 02:27:05'
- author:
    name: Michael Wallner
    picture: 112671
  body: "Hey Darrell, good to hear from you.\r\n\r\n\"Given all the Twin Citian\u2019s
    in this thread...\"\r\nName the place and time. I think I could use all the advice
    I can get."
  created: '2008-04-25 07:03:11'
- author:
    name: Michael Wallner
    picture: 112671
  body: Thanks for the "Hello" Will. I have to admit I kinda figured you would have
    forgotten me.
  created: '2008-04-25 07:05:44'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>If I overprice this, they may not go for it and I would really like
    to do the project.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd if you underprice it, to get the job, you
    do the work at slave wages and add to the overall impression that type design
    can be had on the cheap, thus making it more difficult for everyone doing type
    design for a living to be paid a fair price for their work.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-25 13:43:37'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: I'm trapped in the Capital complex during the day, so ALWAYS up for a lunch
    anywhere but here. Beer/coffee after work is also good for me anytime. Will? Nicole?
    Up for a get together?
  created: '2008-04-25 14:09:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>A custom solution that you own and manage, and that you could reuse </em>\r\n\r\nPrice
    can vary with the terms of exclusivity.\r\ni.e. a short period of exclusivity
    would cost less than a longer one."
  created: '2008-04-25 15:05:32'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>And if you underprice it, to get the job, you do the work at slave
    wages and add to the overall impression that type design can be had on the cheap\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nWell,
    Michael always the option of going inexpensive but limited exclusivity to a short
    period and only in North America. It also lets him have a show piece that will
    warm the hearts of wealthy do-gooder potential clients, and that\u2019s a big
    plus in some markets. "
  created: '2008-04-25 15:19:44'
- author:
    name: Michael Wallner
    picture: 112671
  body: "It is quite apparent that I don't have enough details from the client to
    give them a reasonable price. They were thinking I could give them a quick ballpark
    price, and I guess I thought I could to, so didn't we discussed the details of
    the design and licensing. \r\n\r\nSo what are the details of licensing that need
    to get figured out?\r\n- who owns the rights to the typeface?\r\n- if they want
    the rights, for how long?\r\n- how will they distribute the typeface?\r\n\r\nWhat
    am I missing?"
  created: '2008-04-25 19:18:58'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "And add to that the fact that they want a worldwide license ( as opposed
    to just their in house design shop ).\r\n\r\nThe fact that you are talking Myriad
    has me worried for you. Myriad was made to be robust on screen and in print. It
    could be hard to match the level of fine tweaks and adjustments and hinting* they
    poured into Myriad.\r\n\r\nAlso \u201Ca neutral sans feeling to it\u201D is a
    category that's hard to get right I think because you have to be quite subtle.\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand you can get critiques here on typophile. : -) So you do have paddle
    as it were.\r\n\r\nI agree that you should not sell yourself short. Making a typeface
    that is a good fit to a client is large undertaking. It's best to prepare them
    & yourself for that. Or else be prepared to pitch for several extensions to the
    project and a client who isn't sure why they are paying \"so much\" for a design
    that is taking much longer than they thought it would. Agreeing to unfair or slanted
    terms for time, payment or deliverables will lead to you being unhappy stressed
    etc and a client not trusting you. On the other hand if you can paint a realistic
    picture and they agree; then you won't be driven mad, and they will be happier
    and more respectful of you as well.\r\n\r\n* Hinting is to help it display cleanly
    on screen."
  created: '2008-04-25 19:58:58'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Well, I'm not a pro type designer, of course, but I'll toss this suggestion
    out there for others to tear apart:\r\n\r\nGo with your baseline hourly rate *
    estimated hours as your starting figure (estimated hours adjusted as needed based
    on your assumption that it'll take you a bit longer as it's the first time you've
    done it). You can't/don't want to make less than that I'm guessing (ie, you don't
    want to lose money on the deal). In return, they'd get the absolute minimum out
    of that deal...say one non-exclusive license for the final font files.\r\n\r\nThen
    the negotiating begins...\r\n\r\n - site license vs. individual licenses\r\n -
    exclusivity (only they can use it) vs. non exclusivity (you can license it to
    others) vs. something in between\r\n - breadth of family provided\r\n - etc\r\n\r\nBut
    if you're just trying to feel them out, maybe ask them if they realize that at
    the very least, this will cost a lot more than them just purchasing and using
    Myriad.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-25 21:26:36'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>Then the negotiating begins...- site license vs. individual licenses\r\n-
    exclusivity (only they can use it) vs. non exclusivity (you can license it to
    others) vs. something in between\r\n- breadth of family provided</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    don't see how these items are negotiated after the price of the work is calculated.
    These items must be agreed upon before the price is calculated. One can offer
    a rundown of different pricing options and let the client determine what they
    can afford. Most clients balk at total exclusivity when the find out how much
    it usually costs.\r\n\r\nI go back to my first post. Large-scale licensing of
    existing fonts is very expensive. Since the client is going to have to pay a lot
    for an off-the-shelf font anyway, the fact that you can give them a custom solution
    for a comparable price is the hammer that you have to hit them with. (over and
    over and over)\r\n\r\nCan you make a custom font for the $6000, $8000. $10,000
    + fee they are going to have to spend for an enterprise license for an already
    existing font? And can you deliver as high a quality font as the professional
    font makers?"
  created: '2008-04-25 21:59:09'
- author:
    name: Michael Wallner
    picture: 112671
  body: "I found out that the timeline for the design might be faster than \"the Montalbano
    express\" could even do, so I had to turn the work down. I guess I could have
    saved a lot of time (everyone who read and commented on the post) if I would have
    known that earlier, but I do appreciate the knowledge that I have gained through
    this experience and can use it if another opportunity ever becomes available.\r\n\r\nThanks
    everyone."
  created: '2008-04-25 22:21:52'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>I found out that the timeline for the design might be faster than \u201Cthe
    Montalbano express\u201D could even do, so I had to turn the work down.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhich
    points to the fact that most clients have no idea what is involved in custom font
    development, and think it can be done over the weekend for the price of a bagel
    and coffee, "
  created: '2008-04-25 22:28:55'
- author:
    name: Michael Wallner
    picture: 112671
  body: James, I don't feel like I was too far from that thought either. I knew the
    design itself would take time and work, but I didn't ever think of all the business
    aspects of the project. If there is a next time, I will be much wiser.
  created: '2008-04-25 22:58:31'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: <A HREF="http://community.livejournal.com/designrants/546962.html">Here's
    an example of a WRONG answer...</A>
  created: '2008-04-26 13:07:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Gee, a whole hundred bucks! Wow! There should be huge lines of folks itching
    to take that on.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-26 16:35:29'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Hm, that looks like this guy in his effort to replace the letter K by something
    else:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/40734\">Font Design</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/41692\">URGENT - sanskrit devanagari open
    license font</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/43619\">URGENT HELP
    NEEDED: 2 ALPHABETS FOR A TYPEFACE</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/43690\">Have
    You Got Fontographer / Any Font Software ?</a>\r\n\r\nHis basic mistake is that
    he says \"alphabet\" when he means \"glyph\", like on <a href=\"http://Kalphabet.googlepages.com/\">this
    interesting website</a>.\r\n\r\nFinally he seems to have found someone to do it,
    with limited results:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/44089\">BBT
    Font Launch</a>\r\n\r\nAnd next, it seems, he is going to take on all our UI fonts:\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/44540\">GUI/UI Fonts: What variables put
    them apart from other fonts?</a>\r\n\r\n\r\n(edit: link corrected)\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-26 18:43:15'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Oh my.\r\n\r\nThis boggles all comprehension. Why would anyone, for any reason,
    want to replace the Latin letters k and K with a Devanagari ka (\u0915)? It makes
    no sense! It does not make sense on any level!! How about three exclamation points,
    just for emphasis!!!"
  created: '2008-04-26 19:20:24'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>\"In vast majority of the cases both on individual and professional levels,
    the alphabet \"K\" is being wrongly shaped, it is being shaped as \"three intersecting
    lines\" (see Examples \"K\" Alphabet) not as \"two intersecting lines\" (see Examples
    \"K\" Alphabet).  In handwriting people are having the \"three intersecting lines\"
    because it is much easier to write it that way.\r\n\r\nThis is risky because it
    is possible that people and society could be putting themselves unconsciously
    in a suicide mode.  There has to be education and awareness of this.\"</em>\r\n\r\nFrom
    <a href=\"http://Kalphabet.googlepages.com/home6\">http://Kalphabet.googlepages.com/home6</a>\r\n\r\nSo,
    if I just decide to end it all, it will be because of the letter k?\r\n\r\nLook,
    when I'm drawing type, I often get desperate. But if there is a letter that gives
    me thoughts of suicide from its difficulty to design, the k isn't it ;-)"
  created: '2008-04-26 19:25:46'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: Is it a premonition to what could happen to the "s" and "S", depending on
    the openness of the project?
  created: '2008-04-26 21:26:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "For me it is W and Z. Those nasty diagonal beasts!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-26 21:45:37'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I love drawing Z. W usually has me beating my head on my desk.
  created: '2008-04-26 22:10:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The problem for me is  that both are so unrewarding. When you finish, you
    feel as though you avoided stepping in a mud puddle--when you finish an S, you
    feel like you have just put icing on a cake.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-26 22:57:04'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "\r\n<em>Thus the impact for using the wrong shape \"K\" does not only symbolise
    tragedy for humans but also God. </em>\r\n\r\nAmen, crazy brother. "
  created: '2008-04-26 23:32:39'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: "That's got to be a joke, k?\r\n\r\n(I am reminded of <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/How-Good-Bye-Depression-Constrict-Everyday/dp/0595094724\">this
    book</a> [potentially unsafe for work])\r\n\r\n---\r\neeblet.com"
  created: '2008-04-27 00:08:27'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: Huh. If it had been clear the job was just one letter, I think I would have
    done it. But it's best not to work with people who can't communicate with me coherently,
    anyway. And, you know, nutcakes. If it's the same guy, I don't want to try to
    think too much about why the deadline was so urgent.
  created: '2008-04-27 04:43:43'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Philosophically: \"G\"/\"g\"\r\nTechnically: either \"z\" (tough as hell),
    or \"n\" (important as same)\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">C</a>
    <A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!</a> <A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">.~</a>"
  created: '2008-04-27 10:31:55'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: "\r\nMy last name is Budwig - full of suicidal letters.  (Too bad it's not
    Kudwig)\r\n\r\n---\r\neeblet.com"
  created: '2008-04-27 16:33:49'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Just the w & g - surely.
  created: '2008-04-28 06:52:09'
date: '2008-04-23 20:11:39'
title: Custom type design pricing and timeline

---
