---
author:
  name: Celeste
  picture: 111293
body: "Hi everyone\r\nI've read a certain number of times (<cite>chez</cite> Morison,
  Bringhurst, etc.) that there were two main styles of Renaissance italics, the Aldine
  style and the later \u201Cfully formed\u201D kind demonstrated by Arrighi, Tagliente
  and Palatino. Bringhurst in particular complains of the lack of good digital versions
  of the Aldine model, since many twentieth-century revivals (even those using Alde/Griffo
  roman models, like Monotype Bembo or Monotype Poliphilus) were released with italic
  versions based on the later style.\r\nI have two questions here :\r\n1. How does
  one differentiate the Aldine kind of italic type from the Arrighi <cite>et al.</cite>
  style ?\r\n2. Has the situation changed since 1992 (when Bringhurst made the above
  complaint) and are there now good digital versions of the Aldine italic out there
  ?\r\nThank you very much."
comments:
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '[[http://store1.adobe.com/cfusion/store/html/index.cfm?store=OLS-US&event=displayFontPackage&code=1715|Adobe
    Jenson''s italic]] is said to be based on Arrighi. It''s one of the best as far
    as being both beautiful and readable, I think. '
  created: '2008-04-23 23:01:52'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: "I agree with you on Adobe Jenson\u2019s beautiful italic, William \u2014
    but I also hoped someone would be able to answer my two questions."
  created: '2008-04-24 23:20:17'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Scans from Nesbitt's History and Technique of Lettering:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image:Arrighi_italic.png\"
    target=\"_new\">Arrighi's italic, visibly superior to that cut by Griffo for Aldus
    Manuzio</a>. Arrighi perfected his design by penmanship and had the medalist Lauticio
    di Bartolomeo dei Rotelli cut the punches.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/griffo_italic_4112.png]\r\nItalic
    cut by Francesco Griffo de Bologna\r\n\r\nAlso try: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_western_typography\r\n\r\nBye,
    Jimi still holidaying on the Ivory Coast.\r\n\r\nj a m e s\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-25 03:29:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I also hoped someone would be able to answer my two questions.\r\n\r\nSo
    do I.\r\n\r\nI have not studied the renaissance writing masters, nor the successive
    italics. I have read, but not carefully, what Harry Carter says about them in
    \"A View of Early Typography.\" I haven't seen anywhere the kind of detailed analysis
    of italics such as Tracy does for Romans in \"Letters of Credit\". \r\n\r\nIt
    would be great if someone could give a brief explanation of the differences, with
    some insight on the differences in concept. \r\n\r\nJames's examples are useful,
    but I would like a lot more analysis of what the two were doing. \r\n\r\nOne important
    point is mentioned by Harry Carter: the model most widely used, that coming from
    Garamond and Granjon, shows influence of both the Aldine italics and the italics
    of Arrighi. "
  created: '2008-04-25 04:27:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Arrighi\u2019s italic, visibly superior to that cut by Griffo</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    assuming they had the same goal, and Arrighi just did a better job.\r\nBut is
    that really what's going on?\r\nFrom these two samples, it appears that Griffo
    is trying to capture the quality of writing, with plenty of ligatures and lots
    of bounce, whereas Arrighi is after a slick upscale formality, with a high-tech
    look of mechanical regularity."
  created: '2008-04-25 06:06:35'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "That was my assumption--that the two men had much the same goal. Like all
    assumptions, that's not cut and dried. We don't <em>know</em> that they had the
    same goal. By 'visibly superior\" I'm hedging at the preconception we in our time
    take for granted; that a text typeface design is meant to be slick and tightly
    integrated. That's just my view.\r\n\r\nAltho Alexander Nesbitt notes that Stanley
    Morison thought Arrighi's italic was \"...a much better design...\" he goes on
    to say, \"The later design (Arrighi's) avoided almost all ligatures; used a slightly
    taller capital; and was really worked worked out in the type medium---it was not
    a copy of the pen letter. This is an elegant letter, with long ascenders and descenders;
    in this elegance it has the effect of the written style.\"\r\n\r\nSo Nick's view,
    \"...it appears that Griffo is trying to capture the quality of writing, with
    plenty of ligatures and lots of bounce...\" seems a fair assumption.\r\n\r\nFor
    Wikipedia I had to write about the Griffo italic from a neutral viewpoint: <em>The
    \"Aldino\" italic type, commissioned by Manutius and cut by Franceso Griffo in
    1499, was a closely-spaced condensed type. Griffo's punches are a delicate translation
    of the Italian cursive hand, featuring letters of irregular slant angle and uneven
    height and vertical position, with some connected pairs (ligatures), and unslanted
    small roman capitals the height of the lower case t. The fame of Aldus Manutius
    and his editions made the Griffo italic widely copied and influential, although
    it was not the finest of the pioneer italics.</em>\r\n\r\n\"...not the finest
    of the pioneer italics.\" only just meets Wikipedia's requirement for neutral
    point of view. By \"finest\" I meant the Griffo was not as refined as the Arrighi.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-04-25 11:56:24'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: They also were designing to fit in small books used to travel. During that
    day entire books were done using the italic. (IIRC)
  created: '2008-04-25 17:53:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thanks Nick, nice insight on the difference in goals between the two designers.
    An interesting thing to me would be what Garamond and Granjon took from Griffo
    and from Arrighi. '
  created: '2008-04-25 18:08:11'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Nick\r\n\r\nIf I am not mistaken... was not La Operina intended to be a copy
    book?\r\n\r\nTo quote Ludovico, \u201CI have endeavored to study these recently
    discovered letters and convey them to print... they approach handwriting as much
    as it was in my ability to compose.... excuse me inasmuch as the printed word
    cannot in everything reproduce the living handwriting... hope that you yourself
    will be able to attain your goal by the copying of my hand.\u201D\r\n\r\nI am
    not sure that he was after slick but rather a conveyance of the spirit of the
    Cancellaresca Corsiva.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-04-26 03:08:30'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "The type however varied greatly. Notice the transition from the branching
    to the stem on the right sides of the m, n, h. They are almost Textus precissus
    in nature (they have a terminal angle alien to \u201CItalic (45 degree pen angle).\u201D
    Plus... notice the compression of forms in the book...   If that is the slick
    some are referring to then I understand, but the \u201CGenesis,\u201D La Operina,
    was in no way slick but rather homey. Sorry homey! :)\r\n\r\nBefore I hang myself,
    you must disassociate the book from the type!\r\n\r\nDoes this make sense?\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-04-26 03:45:11'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "The problem with Nesbitt's book is that his images are his drawings. Inevitably
    he put's his own spin on the images. Seeing the real thing & then Nesbitt's image
    makes you laugh. It's not that he did a poor job. It's that it just isn't good
    enough. The truth is I am not so hot on his text either.\r\n\r\nAnd of course
    there is Cresci ( Thanks James Mosley! )\r\n\r\nhttp://photos1.blogger.com/blogger/888/2073/1600/Essemplare%201560%203%20a.0.jpg\r\n\r\nSome
    of it isn't usable to my way of looking at it. But some of it is wonderful."
  created: '2008-04-29 08:53:39'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>Bringhurst in particular complains</cite>\r\n\r\nBut this is essentially
    what Bringhurst does regarding most modern typography. It is a mystery why anyone
    pays much attention to his ramblings."
  created: '2008-04-29 17:01:55'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@Eben: \"The problem with Nesbitt\u2019s book is that his images are his
    drawings. Inevitably he put\u2019s his own spin on the images. Seeing the real
    thing & then Nesbitt\u2019s image makes you laugh. It\u2019s not that he did a
    poor job. It\u2019s that it just isn\u2019t good enough. The truth is I am not
    so hot on his text either.\"\r\n\r\nSome of the images in the <em>History and
    Technique</em> are Nesbitt's own drawings, and some are not. The images of the
    Griffo and Arrighi italic types are authentic. Sure he puts his own spin on them,
    but so does everybody else who writes about aesthetics. His writing is pedantic
    and condescending, but then so is Bringhurst's. Seeing the real thing & then Nesbitt\u2019s
    image makes Eben laugh. The point is, his images are accurate enuff to tell basic
    truths. The spirit, not the letter, my friend, is what counts.\r\n\r\n@terminaldesign\r\nYepp.
    I don't understand why so many typophiles regard his book as \"the bible\". As
    long as they insist on calling <em>Elements</em> that, uninformed followers of
    fashion will tend to swallow suit.\r\n\r\nNick Shinn---I would like nothing more
    than to see you write a successor to both Elements and Nesbitt's book. You're
    preeminent, qualified, a good wordsmith. Put me down for a copy of the first edition.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-04-30 10:01:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks for the props James. I have been working on a type book intermittently
    (a history, not a style guide), but making OpenType fonts keeps getting in the
    way.\r\nI did put a brief style guide together in 2001, piggy-backing work that
    Rod MacDonald had done for the Type Club of Toronto.\r\nhttp://www.shinntype.com/Writing/DigginIt.pdf\r\nI
    added a section on \"Expert Fonts\" (this was shortly before OpenType) that is
    now completely obsolete.\r\nFor the cause of fine typography, and in lieu of another
    style guide to rival Bringhurst, it would be nice to see a general compendium
    of OpenType fonts and features. Perhaps someone is working on that right now,
    but it would be a stretch for a writer/designer or publisher to produce. \r\nHow
    about Scott Citron's <em>Effective Typography with Adobe Creative Suite 3?</em>\r\n\r\nBased
    on his Typophile posts, Charles Ellertson would make a promising style guide author
    :-)"
  created: '2008-04-30 18:46:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: '@Nick: The impression I get is that anyone really qualified to put that book
    together is probably spending most of his time trying to build Opentype fonts.'
  created: '2008-04-30 18:53:29'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Nick: \"I have been working on a type book intermittently (a history, not
    a style guide), but making OpenType fonts keeps getting in the way.\"\r\n\r\nThe
    first bit is really good news. The second bit---\"Misery's the river of the world,
    Misery's the river of the world, Everybody row, Ev-ry-bod-y row!\" -- words by
    Tom Waits.\r\n\r\nThanks for all the other snippets and news. It's all news to
    me. That's because I'm primarily a stylist, busy hatching new ideas and not paying
    a lot of attention to old ones.\r\n\r\nJamesP---probably the companion/successor
    to Elements will be wiki-authored. The problem with most wikis is they're too
    open. That History of Western Type I wrote for Wikipedia is compromised by WP's
    insistence on paraphrasing published sources only. I had little choice but to
    parrot existing \"reliables\".\r\n\r\nIf we set up a wiki dedicated to producing
    a new typography style guide with two basic editorial stipulations: 1) Only practicing
    typographers, type designers and students of type can contribute, 2) Original
    research (read: writing) is encouraged, if not the main goal. By degrees, in between
    making opentype fonts, with many of us working on it, maybe it can be done that
    way. Wikimedia software is free. Just add hosting resources, stir gently.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-04-30 19:44:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Bringhurst's Elements is a wonderful book, but it reflects his classical
    tastes in type,  and it leaves out a lot of issues in graphic design, and type
    for other purposes than books. \r\n\r\nI treasure it for what it is, and don't
    lament it what it's not. I don't think it's a sin and a crime for anyone to say
    something I don't agree with!\r\n\r\nMitchell & Wightman's \"Book Typography\"
    is in some ways more complete and useful on its subject than Bringhurst. \r\n\r\nI
    too am looking forward to Nick's history of type & graphic design!  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-30 20:15:21'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "James don't get me wrong, I think Nesbitt probably had very good reasons
    for doing what he did. Dover editions are often the same way - a piece of line
    art is made because the photo they have isn't clean or clear enough ( or for whatever
    reason ). But the fact remains that in type design especially the little unintended
    liberties do matter. And it's not the middle of the 20th c. anymore. In fact looking
    again I would have to say that even the stuff that is supposedly straight from
    the source is too monkeyed with. I am not saying \"don't anyone buy the book\".
    I am saying as a visual reference it is a deeply flawed. \r\n\r\nThis BTW has
    nothing to do with his aesthetic ideas. I am also not suggesting that the images
    were altered to fit his ideas - even if it is possible. I haven't dug into it
    deeply enough to have an opinion about that.\r\n\r\nIn terms of the text : Pedantic
    and condescending I can deal with. And actually he refrains from the all to common
    \"casual honest\" but overly opinionated and intellectually squishy prose style
    common books from the period to a degree which is very gratifying. I would say
    the text is a decent overview but maybe it wouldn't be my 1st choice."
  created: '2008-04-30 21:08:02'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Also, maybe somebody should take a stab at the question Celeste asked above
    \r\n\r\n<cite>\r\n2. Has the situation changed since 1992 (when Bringhurst made
    the above complaint) and are there now good digital versions of the Aldine italic
    out there ?\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-30 21:12:14'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "William: \"I don\u2019t think it\u2019s a sin and a crime for anyone to say
    something I don\u2019t agree with!\"\r\n\r\nNeither do I, and I don't think anybody
    else here is suggesting the same.\r\n\r\nEben: \"I am saying as a visual reference
    it is a deeply flawed.\" \r\n\r\nI don't agreee it's that bad. You could be accused
    of hyperbole. But if you think it's so flawed you could put some of your scanned
    samples of printed books to good use by publishing them, not with Flickr, but
    in print.\r\n\r\n\"Also, maybe somebody should take a stab at the question Celeste
    asked above\"\r\n\r\nApparently nobody here knows the answer.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-05-01 07:51:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I am not sure why print is so much better than flickr when it comes to showing
    these kinds of images. The one is searchable and the other is not. Also publishing
    of the kind you mean would take a publisher willing to pay the Libraries their
    fees. And a publisher. Did you have one in mind? Still, maybe it will happen one
    day. I wouldn' mind at all. Especially if I could take *really* good images. \r\n\r\nThe
    thing about this \"hyperbole\" of mine is that if you are trying to study this
    kind of thing as a type designer your needs are different than a person who want
    a survey of the big ideas - a sort of 100 level class kind of thing. To say that
    it's no good for the survey might possibly be hyperbole. To say that it falls
    far short for a type designer is simply accurate. Feel free to claim otherwise
    but that's definitely what I think.\r\n\r\nIn the mean time have some Hypnerotomachia!\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/ebensorkin/sets/72157604825884265/\r\n\r\n<cite>Apparently
    nobody here knows the answer.</cite>\r\n\r\nQuite! Or hasn't taken the time to
    work it out yet. I wonder if Stephen or Yves would be good at answering this."
  created: '2008-05-01 10:05:16'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "\"I don\u2019t think it\u2019s a sin and a crime for anyone to say something
    I don\u2019t agree with!\"\r\n\r\nWhere did you get that from? Reading between
    the lines? I only said \"pedantic and condescending\".  Terminaldesign said, \"...a
    mystery why anyone pays much attention to his ramblings.\" No mention of sin or
    crime.\r\n\r\nEdit: Someone posted a recent thread in General Discussions titled
    \"I hate Microsoft Word\". I stenuously avoid the word \"hate\" because it's poisonous.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-05-01 10:09:01'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "\"I am not sure why print is so much better than flickr when it comes to
    showing these kinds of images. The one is searchable and the other is not.\"\r\n\r\nWhat
    about the much higher resolution of print compared to the computer screen? Does
    that count? We're talking about type samples. You yourself insist that detail
    is paramount.\r\n\r\nAlso context. Flickr is a free image hosting service that
    offers very limited ways of adding context---users can label their images and
    add notes and comments, which spectators read on low resolution computer screens.
    That seems like a poor context for type samples. Companion text printed in a book
    would be much more comfortable to read, and a more relevant context for the subject
    of type.\r\n\r\nAbout hyperbole---oh forget it. You obviously don't understand
    what I mean.\r\n\r\nEdit: \"Feel free to claim otherwise but that\u2019s definitely
    what I think.\"\r\n\r\nThis is a discussion thread and I am not prepared to sit
    here bickering.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-05-01 10:27:01'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "For those folk who are unimpressed with Bringhurst's <em>Elements of Typographic
    Style</em>, please suggest an alternative of comparable breadth and depth. If
    there isn't one (I can't think of one myself), consider writing it.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-05-01 11:47:23'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> The much higher resolution of print compared to the computer screen?
    </cite>\r\nMy images are not so good that they could be used at a large size in
    print or on a screen. Talking about computer screens vs print isn't maybe relevant.
    The question is how big & good is the file? As to what is most comfortable, again
    it depends on the person I think  - I can't quite agree that print is the more
    relevant context in some blanket sense. There is a great deal of reading being
    done on screens. But if you are print-centric I won't deny you your choice/preference!\r\n\r\n,cite>
    You yourself insist that detail is paramount. </cite>\r\nAlso it isn't that I
    think an infinite quality of detail is paramount - a great deal of detail is wonderful
    of course - it's that in the case of the nesbitt examples there is an inevitable
    if subtle amount of interpretation (or put harshly corruption or spin) going on.
    I would rather have a lower rez image but what without spin given the choice.
    Put another way if you are trying to figure out what the original might have been
    like Nesbitt's overlay of interpretation must naturally be in the way.\r\n\r\nBut
    even a perfect photo however fantastic it might be, and in print or on screen
    - is not an identical experience to clapping your eyes on the original. Or seeing
    the type at the actual size it is intended to be seen at. That is by far & away
    the more profound and surprising distinction in my experience. Perhaps through
    the factor of scale that I can best see and sympathize with your argument for
    print over screen.\r\n\r\n<cite> bickering </cite>\r\nI didn't think we were.
    I thought it was just a debate/conversation.\r\n\r\n<cite> oh forget it. You obviously
    don\u2019t understand what I mean. </cite>\r\nOkay. Or you could find a different
    way of stating your case. Maybe I would understand your idea better then.\r\n\r\n<cite>
    For those folk who are unimpressed </cite>\r\nThomas, I asked James what he meant
    by that BTW and he said that he thought people relied on Bringhurst far too automatically
    and unquestioningly. So in some ways I think his critique is more with that kind
    of behavior and thought process than with the man or his ideas per se. This isn't
    at all obvious from the post itself. James if I am putting words in your mouth
    or speaking out of turn feel free to correct me."
  created: '2008-05-01 12:22:26'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>What about the much higher resolution of print compared to the computer
    screen? Does that count? We\u2019re talking about type samples. You yourself insist
    that detail is paramount.</cite>\r\n\r\nJames, one thing about Flickr you probably
    don\u2019t know:\r\nIf you\u2019d get yourself an account (free one will do),
    you\u2019ll get access to \u2018all sizes\u2019 of a photograph. In this case,
    you can see the <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/ebensorkin/2455717847/sizes/o/in/set-72157604825884265/\">original
    full-resolution file</a>, and not only the downsized 500\xD7375px preview.\r\nOf
    course, the available size for various pictures varies, depending on what the
    author has decided to publish and share. But basically, one can post the very
    same files to Flickr that one would use for a book layout and send to a printer.\r\n\r\n<cite>Also
    context. Flickr is a free image hosting service that offers very limited ways
    of adding context\u2014-users can label their images and add notes and comments</cite>\r\n\r\nYes,
    it is different from a book. Of course. I think they both have their pros and
    cons. One thing I like about the web (not limited to Flickr, that is) is the fact
    that spectators (readers) can also contribute context, via noted, comments and
    hyper-references \u2013 in a quick and convenient way, at that. The length of
    both descriptions and comments on Flickr seems to be unlimited. I just checked:
    Adding a 10,000 words essay with paragraphs, blockquoted, emphasized passages
    &c to your picture is no problem."
  created: '2008-05-01 13:15:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: James A, I was responding to James M's dismissal of Bringhurst, but also to
    the general tendency on the internet to exaggerate on the negative side. Not this
    thread, so maybe it is off point--and evidently I'm guilty of what I'm complaining
    about!
  created: '2008-05-01 13:43:57'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Eben correctly communicated our discussion. There is too much genuflecting
    to Mr Bringhurst's book. It makes me uncomfortable. Referring to it as \"the Bible\"
    and that sort of thing. I think the book fairly narrow in its focus and the last
    time I looked it had very little to say about real commercial typography. To me,
    it lives in the world of type and book as precious object, and that world makes
    me ill. I come from a very different background.  Just my opinion. \r\n\r\nJamesM"
  created: '2008-05-01 16:00:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">real commercial typography\r\n\r\nJames, you are entitled to your opinion,
    but I think your analysis is off the mark. \r\n\r\nAccording to [[http://www.parapublishing.com/sites/para/resources/statistics.cfm|this
    information from publishers weekly]] most revenue estimates for the book industry
    in the US put the total revenue at 23 to 28 billion dollars, and probably 14 billion
    more that hasn't been counted from smaller publishers.\r\n\r\nAccording to [[http://members.whattheythink.com/news/newslink.cfm?id=29245|this
    source]] magazine revenue from advertising was 18 billion. \r\n\r\nSo book publishing
    is at least a serious commercial venture as magazine publishing. \r\n\r\nAs to
    \"the world of type and book as precious object,\" that applies to a miniscule
    proportion of book publishing. As as far as I'm concerned 'the book as art' is
    a legitimate pursuit, though not a very commercial one.\r\n\r\nAs to Bringhurst's
    book being a \"Bible,\" it was Hermann Zapf who said that he would like to see
    it become the \"Typographer's Bible\". \r\n\r\nAnd if you look at the eight page
    summary of guidelines at the end, I think at least 90% of them are good for the
    setting of any text. \r\n\r\nBringhurst combines eloquence and passion for his
    subject and by and large good judgment. When the introducer of Bringhurst at TypeCon
    last summer asked how many of the audience had \"Elements,\" so far as I could
    see every single hand in the room when up. \r\n\r\nIt is very true that type for
    advertising, signage, product packaging, and so on is a different animal than
    what Bringhurst addresses, and outside his concerns. That is a serious shortcoming,
    but the book is still outstanding--in my view.  "
  created: '2008-05-01 19:07:29'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Bill, I think James' criticism really has to do with  a \"received wisdom
    vs the evidence of your own eyes/experience\" argument. I am deeply sympathetic
    to that argument. Leaning into any authority as a justification isn't strong reasoning
    as such : eg <cite> it was Hermann Zapf who said that he would like to see it
    become the \u201CTypographer\u2019s Bible\u201D</cite> it's just a way of bludgeoning
    the debater opposite with the possible fear that they might be in contradiction
    with a well respected point of view eg the received wisdom. eg \"Who are you to
    contradict Zapf?\" It may have rhetorical power for some but it isn't an argument
    as such. \r\n\r\nIt is certainly true that received wisdom is something we can't
    quite do without! So please don't take me as against it in some kind of over-arching
    or blanket sense. However, it is an important distinction. And it is useful to
    note that the closer you get to mastery in a given area the less useful received
    wisdom often becomes. I think that this is what would account for all those hands.
    \r\n\r\nNick Shinn in his argument with me about Science & type made the point
    that as soon as you do typographic research the results are easy to enshrine and
    can severely limit the thinking of clients who are far far too eager for some
    received wisdom to lean on. I didn't agree with his idea that this means research
    was a problem in and of itself. But I did agree that this tendency to lazily lean
    is not at all healthy."
  created: '2008-05-01 20:06:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: BTW I also think the book is outstanding.
  created: '2008-05-01 20:07:07'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "William,\r\n\r\nI'm happy you find the book outstanding. I do not. Nor do
    I care what Zapf thinks about it either. And did you hear that talk Bringhurst
    gave at TypeCon? I thought it was terrible. Quantum Physics my arse. I 'd rather
    see typographers, young and old, work out their own aesthetics rather than go
    running to see what Bringhurst says about the matter before making a move.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I wouldn't put too much stock in those publishing figures.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-01 21:04:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Eben, \r\n\r\nI quoted Zapf not to say that he must be right, but just to
    indicate that someone who has been regarded as a leading type designer really
    admired the book. To me that does say that the book has some merit.\r\n\r\nJames,
    \r\n\r\nI think you are forgetting that its title is \"Elements.\" For someone
    who was an accomplished professional before it was published, such as yourself,
    I understand that it wouldn't have much to offer. As an introductory work, I do
    think it is outstanding. \r\n\r\nAs to his talk at TypeCon, my reaction was pretty
    much the same as yours. As I admired his book so much, I was shocked by his pompousness
    and the malarkey in his talk. I am of the \"be what you are\" school of thought,
    so this old European guy wearing a sort of kimono jacket full of Chinese characters
    put me off. Then the BS about quantuum theory. Then he didn't pronounce some of
    the Chinese with the right tones; evidently my Chinese is better than his--which
    isn't saying a lot, as mine is pretty elementary. \r\n\r\nI admit that if the
    first I knew of Bringhurst was that talk, I'd be chiming right in with the negativity.
    But I do think the book is wonderful. My conclusion is that pompousness is not
    the greatest sin in the world, though it is pretty irritating :)"
  created: '2008-05-01 22:34:03'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Gentlemen, in short---\r\nI don't mind Bringhurst or any other author on
    typography in particular. I think Elements is a great book and we're fortunate
    to have it as a solid foundation of the mainstream. For better or worse, a mainstream
    is neccessary and our world would be very unbalanced without it. At the same time
    I'm critical of conservative writings. \r\n\r\nI <em>love</em> classicism. I've
    paid more attention to it in architecture than in typography, but that balance
    will be reversed with time.\r\n\r\nEben---sorry, but continued debate on 'hyperbole'
    seems like topic drift to me.\r\n\r\nFlorian---I do have a Flickr account and
    have access to the 'all sizes' extras. Of course users \"...can post the very
    same files to Flickr that one would use for a book layout and send to a printer...\"
    but viewing them on a computer screen has its foibles compared to viewing the
    same resolution images in print.\r\n\r\n\"The length of both descriptions and
    comments on Flickr seems to be unlimited. I just checked: Adding a 10,000 words
    essay with paragraphs, blockquoted, emphasized passages &c to your picture is
    no problem.\"\r\n\r\nCertainly, but the eye-straining prospect of reading 10,000
    word essays on a computer screen doesn't make much sense.\r\n\r\nWilliam---that's
    no problem at all. Common misunderstanding.\r\n\r\nThomas---thanks for echoing
    the idea of writing an alternative to Elements.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-05-01 23:19:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Then the BS about quantuum theory.</em>\r\n\r\nNo longer theory, apparently:
    \r\nhttp://www.quantuumep.com/\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-02 05:18:22'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Quite a range of reactions! Personally I don't care very much if a person's
    delivery is ponderous or they wear clothes that don't match their ethnicity -
    or they have pink hair or whatever. It takes more ( or maybe something else )
    to irritate me. And to further disagree - not out of perversity or purpose but
    just as a matter of actual opinion, I thought the Bringhurst talk was very very
    interesting, and to me more useful than than his book. Not because it related
    in any way to physics ( or didn't ) but just because I enjoyed seeing all the
    powerfully contextual stuff going on in the written & visual life of so many diverse
    cultures. I guess it takes all kinds.\r\n\r\n<cite> seems like topic drift to
    me </cite> If you say so...\r\n\r\n<cite> To me that does say that the book has
    some merit </cite> It is suggestive of course. But as a rhetorical form it is
    a soft or better put perhaps - imprecise way of mounting an argument because you
    invoke the unquestionable authority of the 3rd party ( or too often God/gods)
    which avoids the necessity of establishing your own criteria.\r\n\r\n<cite> ...
    but the eye-straining prospect of reading 10,000 word essays on a computer screen
    doesn\u2019t make much sense. </cite> For now, yes. But this might change. I don't
    think that 10,000 word essays are read all that often anyway.\r\n\r\nCertainly
    it is important to try to stand on the shoulders of giants rather than to simply
    admire how tall they are. Even if you may fail."
  created: '2008-05-02 06:55:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">you invoke the unquestionable authority of the 3rd party\r\n\r\nEben, you
    are imputing to me stuff I never said or meant, which is not fair. The \"typographers
    bible\" stuff probably started with Zapf's 'blurb' on the cover, and that's partly
    why I quoted it. Also to indicate that a very knowledgeable and respected person
    said it. Experience and esteem don't make a person right, but they do mean his
    opinion has  some weight, and is worthy of consideration. That's why authors and
    publishers seek out the opinion of esteemed people in the field of the book. Their
    opinion has weight, even though no \"unquestionable authority\" exists.\r\n\r\nOh,
    and there was interesting content in Bringhurst's talk, though I remember thinking
    it thin--and right now I can't now remember what it was.  "
  created: '2008-05-02 11:37:16'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Eben: \"<em>seems like topic drift to me</em> If you say so...\"\r\n\r\nAlso
    try: semantic quibbling. Call a spade a spade. Even when you call it a shovel,
    it's still a spade.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-05-02 13:57:30'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> semantic quibbling </cite>\r\n\r\nSo you disagree that there is a
    difference between the needs of type maker and somebody making a survey or the
    topic then? Just spades & shovels? \"A rose by any other name wold smells as sweet\"
    doesn't quite address the question - I think.\r\n\r\nWhen I said \"if you say
    so\" I was agreeing not to keep digging into what you could possibly mean by spades
    & spirit. I can still do that. Let it go that is. But I still can't fathom what
    you mean. And you have interesting ideas so I would just assume know if it's okay
    with you. Or not.\r\n\r\nIn terms of topic drift: If you mean that we are still
    not talking about the italics then you are 100% correct. I plan to look into it
    myself so I understand it better and ask Stephen & Yves what they think as well.
    \r\n\r\n<cite> which is not fair.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm sorry. Maybe that's right.
    It would be too easy to think from what I wrote that I was saying you were invoking
    \"( or too often God/gods)\" or had done so in the past. Or possibly other things.
    What I do mean is that the form an argument takes has qualities and characteristics.
    Your rhetoric called for respect for the received wisdom of Hermann Zapf. Who,
    in fairness and candor I do respect more & more. And it's an effective argument
    as far as it goes. So no harm so far - correct? What I am saying also though is
    that it is an oblique strategy. It doesn't deal with the statement ( in this case
    James') in a direct or detailed manner. None of this is as far as I can see, personal.
    It doesn't deal with what you are or may be but rather with how you have made
    your case with James. If I have missed something please let me know because i
    don't want to put words in your mouth you would prefer not be there or to irritate
    you etc."
  created: '2008-05-02 19:58:38'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Eben: \"So you disagree that there is a difference between the needs of type
    maker and somebody making a survey or the topic then?\"\r\n\r\nNo (calmly).\r\n\r\n\"Just
    spades & shovels? \u201CA rose by any other name wold smells as sweet\u201D doesn\u2019t
    quite address the question - I think.\"\r\n\r\nIf you have a spade, and you call
    it a spade, it's a spade. If you call the same object a shovel, the object does
    not change to reflect its new name. When I said \"hyperbole\" I meant that your
    description of the images in Nesbitt's book was hyperbolic in being <em>\"a figure
    of speech consisting in exaggerated statement, used to express strong feeling...\"</em>
    -- definition from the Shorter Oxford English Dictionary. I called it hyperbole
    because at the time of writing it you omitted to explain \"To say that it falls
    far short for a type designer is simply accurate.\" as you later did explain.\r\n\r\nBy
    \"continued debate on \u2019hyperbole\u2019 seems like topic drift to me\" I meant
    mainly that quibbling about whether your description of \"deeply flawed\" was
    hyperbole or not would be of minimal value to the discussion (drift). That's why
    I later said, \"this is a discussion thread and I am not prepared to sit here
    bickering\" because sidetracks like that one are, in my book of semantics, bickering
    and not really discussion.  \r\n\r\n\"When I said \u201Cif you say so\u201D I
    was agreeing not to keep digging into what you could possibly mean by spades &
    spirit. I can still do that. Let it go that is. But I still can\u2019t fathom
    what you mean. And you have interesting ideas so I would just assume know if it\u2019s
    okay with you. Or not.\"\r\n\r\nIf you were agreeing not to keep digging into
    what I could possibly mean by \"spades and shovels\" then why did you say anything
    at all? Saying \"If you say so\" was a confrontational way of stating your neutral
    position. If you agree not to keep digging into what a person meant by what they
    said, then don't say anything about it. Just let it stand and go on with the debate
    proper.\r\n\r\n\"In terms of topic drift: If you mean that we are still not talking
    about the italics then you are 100% correct. I plan to look into it myself so
    I understand it better and ask Stephen & Yves what they think as well.\"\r\n\r\nThis
    is good. This whole thread could have been much shorter and easier to decipher
    had you concentrated on that and not quibbled (bickered) about mere words.\r\n\r\nWords
    are cheap man. Don't ever let another person's words get your goat or distract
    you from the true purpose of the day.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-05-02 23:19:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">It doesn\u2019t deal with the statement ( in this case James\u2019) in a
    direct or detailed manner. ...if I have missed something please let me know \r\n\r\nI
    also noted in that post that book typography--the focus of Bringhurst's interest--is
    also commercial, and gave the numbers. And I argued that 90% of Bringhurst's guidelines
    apply to all typography. It seems to me that a good counter argument would address
    these. "
  created: '2008-05-03 00:28:46'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Book typography is book typography. Traditionally commercial typography is
    everything else. Magazines, advertising, collateral etc. I disagree that Bringhurst
    covers 90 percent of all typography. He covers book typography, and has no advice
    to give on many of the problems faced by typographers working in magazines, advertisements
    and the like. \r\n\r\nWilliam have you ever worked as a commercial typographer?
    Ever fought with an editor to get them to change a bit of copy to a good rag on
    a magazine article?\r\n\r\nAlso the numbers you quote from Publishers Weekly are
    from the AAP. They under report in some cases and over report in others. Not the
    best source.\r\n\r\nOn another note, Publishers Weekly has lost more than a step
    in the years since my wife was the editor-in-chief. (my personal bias is clearly
    obvious on this point)"
  created: '2008-05-03 02:33:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I disagree that Bringhurst covers 90 percent of all typography.\r\n\r\nI
    wrote: \r\n\r\n\"90% of Bringhurst\u2019s guidelines apply to all typography.\"\r\n\r\nYour
    paraphrase of what I wrote garbles my meaning. What I wrote I think is true and
    what you wrongly impute to me is false.\r\n\r\nThe exact revenue numbers are not
    important to my argument. My point was that books in the US are a major industry
    on the order of magnitude of magazine publishing--tens of billions of dollars.
    If you have other better numbers which would change that picture please let us
    know.  \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-03 05:35:02'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "William what distinctions do you draw between \"90% of Bringhurst\u2019s
    guidelines apply to all typography.\"and \"Bringhurst covers 90 percent of all
    typography\". Honestly they sound very much the same. What's all this imputing?
    As I said I have no special beef with the \"big B\" as it were, but I think the
    idea that his Elements book covers 90% of all typographic tasks is simply mistaken.
    Total Glyph's processed is a silly way to prove such an idea. Time spent on tasks
    is likelier in my view."
  created: '2008-05-03 07:10:17'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Bill -- James's quibble with the publishing numbers is a red herring. I believe
    his main point is that book typography and \"commercial\" typography are two different
    things. Financial numbers that you provided to prove that book publishing is as
    large a commercial endeavor as other forms is not the issue, since \"commercial\"
    in this instance is not referring to the financial magnitude or viability of the
    enterprise.\r\n\r\nI believe what James is asserting is that there is a large
    arena of typography (under his rubric of \"commercial\") that operates under different
    demands (these being generally the commercial aspect) and holds to different standards
    than that of book composition. Further, he is arguing that many of Bringhurst's
    guidelines do not adequately address these sorts of typography and their situations,
    or they provide unrealistic (and not even necessarily desirable) objectives for
    this class of typography.\r\n\r\nI think I see his point. And I can see how this,
    exacerbated by an overly reverent attitude towards Bringhurst as a one-size-fits-all
    \"bible\" of typography to be turned to for a definitive answer to every typographical
    conundrum, could be grating. (Not you, personally, Bill; but a general attitude.)\r\n\r\n--
    K.\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-03 13:02:52'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> Honestly they sound very much the same.  </em>\r\n\r\nLet's say I have
    a very detailed and helpful recipe for making blueberry muffins. \r\n\r\nIf I
    say \"80% of this recipe applies to all muffins,\" that's probably true. No matter
    what kind of muffins I'm making, I'll probably want to grease the muffin tins,
    mix the wet ingredients first, preheat the oven, use flour, eggs, sugar, etc.
    Obviously the blueberries would be a part of the other 20%, replaced by shredded
    carrots or bran or orange zest or whatever depending on the muffin desired.\r\n\r\nIf
    I say \"this recipe applies to 80% of all muffins,\" that's probably false, as
    blueberry muffins do not make up 4/5 of all muffins.\r\n\r\nDoes that help?\r\n\r\nOn
    this whole \"appeal to authority\" conversation: is it absurd, or merely apropos,
    that we'd debate whether Bill's invocation of Zapf was an appeal to authority,
    when Zapf's statement in question (calling something a \"bible\") is itself the
    ultimate appeal to authority?!\r\n\r\nI thought the epic [[http://www.typophile.com/node/37310|rule
    or law thread]] was helpful in discerning the different effects of how direction
    in typography is worded.\r\n\r\nI have the sense that, generations ago, one learned
    the \"rules\" of typography from one's mentor, and the question of competing \"authorities\"
    on correctness was rare. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-03 13:51:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Honestly they sound very much the same.\r\n\r\nEben, a statement and its
    converse generally don't have the same meaning. \r\n\r\n\"90% of Americans drink
    Starbucks Coffee\" and \"Americans drink 90% of Starbucks Coffee\" don't mean
    the same thing. The first can be true and the second false, if a lot of Starbucks
    coffee is drunk outside the United states. \r\n\r\nDo I need to do a picture for
    you with a map and little people and cups of coffee, or do you get it now?\r\n\r\nWhat
    I was saying before I was so misunderstood is that 90% of Bringhurst's rules apply
    to all typography. That's why it's called \"Elements of Typographic Style\" and
    not \"The Complete Typographer.\" \r\n\r\nLet's take a couple of rules: \"Read
    text before designing it\" and \"Avoid overpunctuating lists.\" I may be wrong,
    but it seems to me like these are also good guidelines for setting text in advertising
    as well, or for magazine articles. Of course the designer doesn't have to read
    all the text, but if he or she doesn't read enough to get its flavor it seems
    to me not so good a start for the design. If he or she is designing a template
    for a periodical, then reading some of the articles will be important to getting
    the flavor of the publication. So that's a little different, but the general principle
    seems to me clear and pretty good. \r\n\r\nNow there are a lot of additional considerations
    for each kind of publication: if you are designing an advertisement, a poster,
    a magazine, a newspaper, a blog, I think there are a lot of special considerations
    that apply to these that are different from books. How many additional considerations?
    I don't know, but a lot more than 10% additional guidelines. That's why it's not
    true that Bringhurst covers 90% of typography--nor does he claim to. \r\n\r\nKent,
    \r\n\r\nI agree with part of what James M. has been writing, and I don't understand
    why he is taking issue when I agree with him.  Indeed in [[http://www.typophile.com/books/essentials|this
    review of Bringhurst]] that I wrote for Typophile I criticized the book for its
    narrowly classical taste, and its neglect of the often very different demands
    of advertising and other kinds of publication outside books. And I wrote this
    I think three years ago, at a time I hadn't read anybody else criticizing Bringhurst
    at all. But I still think it's a wonderful book in spite of its shortcomings.
    \r\n\r\nThe part of what James M has said I indeed have not agreed with. It is,
    as you say, that Bringhurst's rules are actually bad for commercial typography.
    If you remove those that are obviously book specific, such as guidelines for title
    pages, then I still think that 90% are good for all text. I would also take out
    the preference for English rules on quotetation marks and dashes. I actually agree
    with Bringhurst in preferring these, but it is generally not realistic to go against
    American custom in America. \r\n\r\nI confess I haven't gone through all 129 rules
    (I just counted them) to see if you'd have to throw out more than 10%, after removing
    obviously book specific. But my  feeling is that 90% would still hold up. Oh,
    and by the way most of Bringhurst's advice can be found scattered in other, earlier
    books as well.   \r\n\r\nI'm here to learn, so I'd be glad to ready why some of
    his rules are wrong for magazines or other publications.\r\n\r\nI'd been even
    happier to read guidelines for varied kinds of publication beyond books that are
    as good and as informative as Bringhurst's general rules.   \r\n\r\n    "
  created: '2008-05-03 19:14:17'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Kent, extremely well put!\r\n\r\n<cite> Does that help?</cite>\r\n\r\nYes
    it does.\r\n\r\nBill that was the sort of post I was hoping to read. It clarified
    a lot about your position for me. Thanks.\r\n\r\nBut what I think is missing from
    the muffin analogy and also from Bill's more type oriented statements is that
    while 90% of may have some application to some magazine and other commercial work
    - the world of commercial work extends vastly beyond the scope of Bringhurst's
    book. Which means that even assuming that the idea that 90% of Elements is applicable
    to commercial work ( which I am not quite ready to concede yet - but I will admit
    is possible ) that still doesn't mean that Elements is applicable to even 20%
    of commercial work. Again I make no special claim either way. I am just pointing
    out the distinction.\r\n\r\nTo be able to make the claim in a serious way you
    would have to break it down to a degree I am unwilling to do.\r\n\r\nWilliam,
    I am in agreement with you about it being a wonderful book not because I am certain
    I agree with all the ideas in it but because it is a serious attempt to grip a
    complex subject. I have said this kind of thing before: it's valuable because
    it is an example of how to try to get your head around the subject. But that doesn't
    Jams' point about the book having a bit of a dangerous allure isn't also so.\r\n\r\n<cite>
    to read guidelines for varied kinds of publication </cite>\r\n\r\nMe too by Gum!
    I have an idea ( hopefully false ) that that world is a bit more cut-throat than
    books. Not that books is somehow a picnic. So getting folks to give out their
    tricks and insights might be tough.   \r\n\r\n<cite> I have the sense that, generations
    ago, one learned the \u201Crules\u201D of typography from one\u2019s mentor, and
    the question of competing \u201Cauthorities\u201D on correctness was rare. </cite>\r\n\r\nA
    state I resolutely wish to avoid! Please don't tell that sounds good to you. Or,
    are you making some other point? \r\n\r\n<cite> actually bad for </cite>\r\n\r\nYou
    could say \"not applicable\" or \"different from\" too. They carry less baggage.
    \r\n\r\n<cite> this whole \u201Cappeal to authority\u201D conversation </cite>\r\n\r\nI
    will admit that I was too harsh with Bill about that. But that was my tone. Again
    Sorry. But at the same time I do think that that the form an argument takes is
    important to note and is in fact utterly fair; and more than that, often necessary."
  created: '2008-05-03 22:05:34'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> Please don\u2019t tell that sounds good to you. Or, are you making some
    other point?</em>\r\n\r\nOh no, I'm not pining for a return to that. I just find
    it interesting. It seems to me that typography is a world in which there is lots
    of longing on the part of student-types for authorities to deliver the rules of
    correctness, and a fair amount of longing on the part of mentor-types to deliver
    some rules with authority. And my picture of the history of typography (undocumented,
    so I welcome correction) is that for most of that history, those longings were
    met by the apprenticeship structure unproblematically (at least when locally considered).
    Now we have a world of competing authorities available to beginners - that's to
    the good (when globally considered) as you mention. But I find it interesting
    that the longing doesn't go away in these changed circumstances. I think there
    are structures of authority in the world of typography that it would be interesting
    to dissect."
  created: '2008-05-04 00:32:08'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Those are good points to be sure. I think it's also true that part of what
    creates this longing is the fact that in type ( or even just letter work) so much
    just depends* that it is very easy to feel lost or at least insecure. That along
    with the fact that some insights can suddenly make  things seem so much clearer
    - like learning about overshoots for instance - combine to create a hunger for
    authority and the seeming instant magic \"rightness\". But part of what's great
    about letter design, and font design as a subset of that; is that not only is
    it a hard nut to crack properly, but I it can be cracked very very well in more
    than one way. So this longing is unhealthy. I am not trying to convince you but
    just writing down what your post made me think of.\r\n\r\n* on the purpose, the
    medium, the culture, the paper, the size, and so on "
  created: '2008-05-04 01:23:11'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: That's well put.
  created: '2008-05-04 01:30:20'
- author:
    name: Joao Henrique Lopes
    picture: 123407
  body: "Hi Celeste\r\n1-One can easily find some examples of both styles at Google
    Images. I compare the more naive style of Griffo with Botticelli, and the more
    refined, flourished style of Arrighi et al with Michelangelo.\r\n\r\nIn a more
    specific analysis, the main diferences are the a (which has a prominent tip in
    Aldine) and the g (which is very crooked in Aldine, like someone has kicked its
    lower part to the right). \r\n\r\nFor having traits of both styles, Garamond can
    be compared with Raphael.\r\n\r\n2- I don't know any aldine italic font to be
    used today, and for that reason I am making my own version of it.\r\n\r\nJeansou\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-09-19 18:56:57'
date: '2008-04-23 22:56:15'
node_type: forum
title: Italic vs. italic

---
