---
author:
  name: jason
  picture: 109852
body: Haven't been around these parts in a while, but with the academic year winding
  down I'm beginning to feel human again. At the moment I'm finalizing plans to head
  to Buffalo in July for my first TypeCon. Anyone else going?
comments:
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: 'I''m going and it will be my first. I''m waiting for a few details to pull
    the trigger on the hotel and tickets. '
  created: '2008-04-24 23:06:04'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Jason -- Glad to hear that you're planning to come this year. That's great.
    I'll be there, of course. \r\n\r\nWe're a little bit behind schedule getting the
    full TypeCon website up and running (www.typecon.com). There have been some structural
    overhauls behind the scenes and the web wonks (all generous volunteers!) are working
    hard to get everything buttoned down. Hopefully soon. \r\n\r\nNaturally, the early
    registration cut-off has been adjusted accordingly.\r\n\r\nAlso, Tamye is still
    fielding those last-minute proposals and juggling everything to put together another
    dynamite program.\r\n\r\nBut the hotel is already taking reservations and Tamye
    negotiated the room rate down even further than first announced -- another $15/night
    slashed. So, if you know you're coming, you might go ahead and reserve the room
    even before we get the registration up and live.\r\n\r\n-- Kent.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-24 23:16:43'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I'll be there. \r\n\r\nKent, will we see a final line-up of speakers before
    the early bird date has flown?"
  created: '2008-04-24 23:21:11'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I\u2019ll be there. Given the way the job market is going, I\u2019ll certainly
    have the free time."
  created: '2008-04-24 23:25:22'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Ah, Tiff, finally I'll have a chance to say hello in person. Looking forward
    to seeing who else is planning on attending so that I might connect face to face
    with some of the gang I've interacted with around here over the past few years.\r\n\r\nI'm
    going to spend the entire week in Buffalo (15-21), then head off for a week in
    NY, with a day at the NY Center for Book Arts, an afternoon each at the Grolier
    Club and the NYPL Rare Books Division, an afternoon at Poets House (browsing their
    over 8,000 poetry chapbooks), and then a couple of days visiting galleries & book
    stores. \r\n\r\nAs a tangent to this thread, anyone know of any book shops in
    NY similar to <a href=\"http://www.wlbooks.com/cgi-bin/wlb455.cgi/index.html\"
    target=\"_blank\">Wessel & Lieberman</a> in Seattle (with dedicated sections of
    typography & fine-press books)? I'll spend some time at Strand, of course, but
    I'm looking for small-/fine-press stuff that might be done letterpress."
  created: '2008-04-24 23:53:43'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: "Yay, TypeCon! I can't wait. The program is coming together, and it's going
    to be an amazing lineup. The website is so close - our wonderful volunteers are
    building a better one, and it always takes more time than we think. We changed
    the early bird registration deadline so you'll all have plenty of time to register
    at the lowest rate once the website goes live.\r\n\r\nDo book hotel fast, no matter
    what. We contracted for a very large block of rooms at the Hyatt for our group,
    but the super low rate of $109 per night means more of our attendees than ever
    will stay at the conference hotel. We have always sold out our room block in the
    past, and it looks like we will sell out a lot quicker this year.\r\n\r\nI'm headed
    back to Buffalo for more planning meetings and to finalize special events and
    such, just in time for Cinco de Mayo. The weather is wonderful, and everyone in
    Buff is so excited that we're coming!"
  created: '2008-04-25 00:10:56'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Looks like the only rooms available now are two double beds. I asked for a
    single queen or king but I guess those are all gone. :^(
  created: '2008-04-25 01:19:52'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'I will be there with bells on. Okay. Not really with bells. '
  created: '2008-04-25 05:28:15'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I am booked into the Hyatt ( 15th-20th BTW ), and now I have decide if I should
    fly in direct or drive there from somewhere else... So many Libraries! So little
    time!
  created: '2008-04-25 06:08:01'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I got a single BTW. Maybe you should try back!
  created: '2008-04-25 06:12:06'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "Unfortunately I will miss it.\r\n\r\nWe have a bit of a budget problem in
    California & there's no travel money this year, and i gotta save every penny for
    the new baby.\r\n\r\nsorry! i'll miss you guys.\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\njlt : http://www.hewnandhammered.com"
  created: '2008-04-25 06:40:27'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: While we're at it, anyone from Buffalo have suggestions for good book stores?
    Is anyone from Buffalo?
  created: '2008-04-25 07:18:36'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Hey, Jupiterboy (a.k.a. James), me too! I was only able to choose a room
    with two double beds -- so if you want to be my roommate, just say the word! The
    only caveat is that I asked for a Non-Smoking room. I'll arrive on a Monday evening
    (July 14) and leave on a Monday morning (July 21).\r\n\r\nJoshua, sorry to hear
    you can't make it, but congrats on the arriving baby!"
  created: '2008-04-25 07:32:08'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>I got a single BTW. Maybe you should try back!</cite>\r\n\r\nWorking
    hypothesis is that if you book for two you can only choose a double bed because
    it is a conference rate?\r\n\r\n<cite>Hey, Jupiterboy (a.k.a. James), me too!
    I was only able to choose a room with two double beds \u2014 so if you want to
    be my roommate, just say the word! The only caveat is that I asked for a Non-Smoking
    room.</cite>\r\n\r\n(a.k.a. Mark BTW) That's a great idea and a smart offer however
    Pam will be with me (hooray!) so I was more interested in avoiding the Dick Van
    Dyke arrangements. After calling the hotel I believe it will be a matter of availability
    on arrival. \r\n\r\n<cite>While we\u2019re at it, anyone from Buffalo have suggestions
    for good book stores? Is anyone from Buffalo?</cite> Paul Hunt and Richard Kegler
    are the go to guys on this. I suspect some of the Toronto peeps know their way
    around too.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-25 11:18:47'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: I am currently not planning on making it to TypeCon. First time I'll have
    missed it since the third one, I think.
  created: '2008-04-25 11:57:43'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Tiff -- Only Tamye can tell us for sure when the final line-up will be settled.
    You know how it goes. \r\n\r\nJoshua, Thomas -- I'm really bummed that you guys
    won't make it this year. It won't quite be the same without you.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-25 12:40:49'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>I\u2019m going and it will be my first.</em>\r\nLikewise. I'm looking
    forward to it!"
  created: '2008-04-25 13:48:22'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "<em>While we\u2019re at it, anyone from Buffalo have suggestions for good
    book stores?</em>\r\n\r\nThere are a few \"antiquarian\" bookshops. One of the
    largest is conveniently located a very short walk from the conference hotel. \r\nhttp://www.oldeditions.com/\r\nA
    google earth map is being prepared that has local points of interest related to
    the conference including bookshops. I believe this should be made available when
    the website goes live."
  created: '2008-04-25 14:45:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I guess there's no excuse for me not to go, as it's just down the road :-)
  created: '2008-04-25 14:56:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick,\r\nYou could drive from Toronto and be home for lunch :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-25 15:15:21'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>There are a few \u201Cantiquarian\u201D bookshops.</cite>\r\n\r\nPlease
    keep these secret. This trip is going to cost me enough as it is, I don\u2019t
    want to end up buying a bunch of old books and shipping them home!"
  created: '2008-04-25 15:20:51'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>After calling the hotel I believe it will be a matter of availability
    on arrival.</em>\r\n\r\nMark, just be sure to book a room now, while they are
    still available! TypeCon rooms tend to go fast.\r\n\r\nOK folks, my offer still
    stands -- if anybody wants to share a (non-smoking) room with me, just let me
    know. I will be at the hotel from July 14-20.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-25 15:30:28'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> You could drive from Toronto and be home for lunch :-)\r\n\r\nNot if crossing
    the border in Buffalo or the Falls is as troublesome as it can be here in Sarnia.\r\n\r\nI
    hope to get there as well. (I was at Toronto, but that was prior to becoming a
    regular here.)"
  created: '2008-04-25 17:39:33'
- author:
    name: elizabeth_355
    picture: 112087
  body: I'll be there. I live in Buffalo, and I look forward to seeing Tamye and everyone
    again at the meeting on May 6.
  created: '2008-04-25 18:10:56'
- author:
    name: iffy
    picture: 113881
  body: "There may be an obvious answer to this question...\r\nTypecon has always
    interested me, but lack of funds has kept me away in the past. But providing that
    I can afford it this year, would this be beneficial to someone who isn't a type
    designer? Granted I am a graphic designer with an interest in type. \r\n\r\nI
    just didn't know if I should continue on going to HOW like I have in the past
    or make a change.  \r\n\r\nWould be nice if I could get my company would pay,
    but I know that won't happen. "
  created: '2008-04-25 18:18:50'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Katherine, I'm a graphic designer too. TypeCon hits a nice cross-section.
    We all love type, that's where the cross-section meets.
  created: '2008-04-25 18:28:30'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Katherine -- \r\n\r\nI don't know what would qualify as beneficial for you.
    But the truth of the matter is that TypeCon is expressly for people who have an
    interest in type. It's only incidentally useful for type designers per se.\r\n\r\nTypeCon
    got its start as a get-together of typophiles (lowercase 't') who just wanted
    to hang out and indulge/share their love of all things typographic. It just so
    happens that Bob Colby (the guy who started it, who isn't even a designer at all)
    convinced Matthew Carter to come and talk. Chank was at the first couple too.
    And so was David Berlow.\r\n\r\nSo, before you know it typophiles of all stripes
    -- graphic designers, type designers, letterpress printers, non-design-related
    aficionados: users <em>and</em> makers -- were all congregating together and having
    a good ol' time.\r\n\r\nThe presentations range from historical to technical,
    from fanciful to practical, from making to using, and everything in between. There's
    a lot of overlap with design issues and interests -- like past presentations by
    Kit Hinrichs (SF) or Paula Scher (NY). (And have you heard: Stefan Sagmeister
    is speaking this year at the Wednesday pre-conference talk.)\r\n\r\nOne of the
    great benefits of TypeCon (compared to conferences like AIGA or HOW or even ATypI)
    is that it is pretty small and informal, so there is a lot of mixing and mingling
    -- very little (if any) of that cliquishness that you can find at larger gatherings.\r\n\r\nIt
    really isn't out of the question, for instance, to end up at a coffee break sitting
    on a bench next to Matthew Carter, James Montalbano, John Downer, or Akira Kobayashi
    (or even all four!). Plus, type designers get to interact directly with users
    and hear what they're liking and not liking, etc.\r\n\r\nIt's really beneficial
    for anyone who is interested in type.\r\n\r\nNow, whether or not you can make
    that case to your boss . . . that's another matter. I suppose it just depends.\r\n\r\n--
    K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-25 18:43:23'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: All the graphic designers I talked to at the last two seemed very pleased
    they went. It's definitely not just for type makers!
  created: '2008-04-25 18:52:03'
- author:
    name: iffy
    picture: 113881
  body: "Thanks for the information. It sounds great, especially the fact that it's
    intimate and informal. \r\nNow I fear I'd be quite out of my league. We'll see. "
  created: '2008-04-25 20:49:50'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Now I fear I\u2019d be quite out of my league. We\u2019ll see.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    really not that bad\u2014type geeks are a very mellow/egalitarian crowd. Although
    the thought of thinking up something worthwhile to say scared the crap out of
    me every time I got on an elevator with Matthew Carter or Akira Kobayashi at Typecon
    2007."
  created: '2008-04-25 21:03:05'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "<em>thought of thinking up something worthwhile to say</em>\r\n\r\njust have
    your PDA set to \r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/smalltalk/\r\nat all times\r\n\r\n\"I
    love what you've done in the field of referencing your machine-driven letterspacing.\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-25 21:18:19'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: I ll be there too!
  created: '2008-04-25 22:20:06'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: '"Thanks for the loaner copy of <cite>Arrival</cite> Keith. I didn''t realize
    the client''s intent was to <cite>cause</cite> traffic accidents when I bid on
    the job."'
  created: '2008-04-25 22:23:15'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Katherine,\r\n\r\nHave you compared the cost of attending TypeCon with the
    same costs for HOW? Seems to me HOW is an order of magnitude more pricey. TypeCon
    is remarkably affordable. "
  created: '2008-04-25 22:28:11'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Very much looking forward to seeing the full schedule, and also to the Education
    forum. The college I teach at is launching a new Writing & Publishing diploma
    this fall, with 6 typography & publication design courses that I've developed,
    so I'm eager to hear what others have worked up during curriculum development
    at various institutions.\r\n\r\nAlso just looking forward to workshops and meeting
    like-minded type people. I moved to a rather small town last April. 'Nuff said."
  created: '2008-04-25 22:57:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I was in an elevator with Matthew Carter at one of the TypeCons and found
    him to be quite easy to talk to. He is not the least bit pretentious nor is Akira.
    Type people don't tend to be so stuck with there own egos that they can't be human
    and  cordial. Fear not, we don't bite but we may obsess over a well fitted typeface.
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-25 23:29:41'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: "As far as newbies going to TypeCon - I knew nothing about type (other than
    liking it a lot) when I went to TypeCon in 2006.  I still know little about it
    compared to the typ-0-graphers who hang out here, but my eye for design has benefited
    greatly.  And it's fun!  I've now read all the books about typography at my city
    library, and I've yet to be bored.\r\n\r\nI'm on a tight budget this year (last
    time, my company payed - and I'm freelance now), so if any other women are interested
    in sharing a hotel room, let me know.  I haven't yet decided if I can go... I
    hope so!\r\n\r\n---\r\neeblet.com"
  created: '2008-04-26 01:45:55'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: "OK, friends, the hotel situation is sorted out. I called our contact at the
    Hyatt, and we have indeed been filling our room block so availability was tight
    on some days. The Hyatt was gracious enough to give us a few more rooms at the
    cheap TypeCon rate, and fixed a glitch in the system that didn't allow singles
    or kings to be specified on some dates. So if you booked a double and want a king,
    if you go back now and amend your reservation, you'll be able to fix it. We are
    going to be short on doubles this year, so please do give up your double if you
    have one and won't need the extra bed.\r\n\r\nThat said, book your rooms fast.
    They are going quicker than in past years, and more people are coming in early
    and staying late. We will sell out well in advance of our cut-off, and you don't
    want to miss being in the conference hotel (especially at such a bargain price).\r\n\r\nI
    can wholeheartedly echo the sentiments about the lack of pretension and ego in
    the type community. After admiring the work of people like Matthew Carter and
    Erik Spiekermann from afar for years, I was so pleasantly surprised to find out
    what lovely people they are. We are very lucky to have such a welcoming community,
    and newcomers should never fear - it's easy to make friends at TypeCon."
  created: '2008-04-26 02:34:39'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Thanks Tamye! I called and they made the change and now it says king online.
  created: '2008-04-26 03:26:30'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>He is not the least bit pretentious nor is Akira.</cite>\r\n\r\nThey
    might not be pretentious, but I sure am and I would hate to look like a doofus!"
  created: '2008-04-26 03:45:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "They both would be happy to talk to you, James.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-26 04:01:44'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Maybe James should sign up for the typeface critique session, Chris. He could
    show his <a href="http://typophile.com/node/44612">thesis project</a>.
  created: '2008-04-26 05:57:52'
- author:
    name: Chiba Chiba
    picture: 112595
  body: I'll be there for sure! :)
  created: '2008-04-26 15:00:13'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Don\u2019t jinx it! The printer\u2014who doesn\u2019t work weekends\u2014just
    slipped the ship date of my \u201Cfive-day-turnaround\u201D to Monday."
  created: '2008-04-26 16:15:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yes, Ricardo, James should definitely sign up for the critique!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-26 16:31:47'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "I'll be there are well.\r\n\r\nAnd Frederico you're coming!!!?? Awesome!!"
  created: '2008-04-26 17:45:24'
- author:
    name: Chiba Chiba
    picture: 112595
  body: Yes Haley, guess we'll meet there!  ;)
  created: '2008-04-26 19:57:05'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I'll be there. This will be my sixth.
  created: '2008-04-26 20:55:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "and this will be my 4th :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-26 21:48:34'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Frederico, that is one kick-ass splashpage you have on your <a href="http://www.chibachiba.com/">website</a>!
  created: '2008-04-27 01:04:49'
- author:
    name: Chiba Chiba
    picture: 112595
  body: Thank you Ricardo! :)
  created: '2008-04-27 04:13:13'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: "I second Ricardo's compliment, Frederico.... However, I TOTALLY read \"Thank
    you Ricardo\" in Kermit the Frog's voice.\r\n\r\n---\r\neeblet.com"
  created: '2008-04-27 16:30:12'
date: '2008-04-24 22:54:57'
node_type: forum
title: TypeCon2008

---
