---
author:
  name: Eric_West
  picture: 109470
body: "Hi all.\r\n\r\nBeen away a while. I have the hardest time designing for myself.
  Does anyone else have that problem? I'll like it, for like 2 seconds, and it's gone.
  The creative juices flow when I'm working on project for other people, just not
  myself, to show my work (ie a portfolio site showcasing my work). \r\n\r\nWhat's
  your secrets? Fellow designers..."
comments:
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "I'm working on a photography portfolio for myself, Eric. (Not a site but
    a bound portfolio.) To make it harder, I've added typographic elements on an 11x17
    inch page. I think I'll end up liking it, but it is hard. I want to be creative
    but I'm worried about looking hokey. \r\n\r\nI'll be interested in seeing what
    others say on this topic. \r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2008-04-27 02:20:57'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "My design is much better when I work for\u2014and with\u2014others. That\u2019s
    something that\u2019s always hurt me in school; I probably should not have enrolled
    at a fine art school where so much revolves around individual \u201Cgenius\u201D
    and the students have little interest in working together. It doesn\u2019t help
    that I have little interest in editorial matters or self expression; if I wanted
    to collect piles of text and image to arrange I\u2019d be in journalism, if I
    wanted my feelings on a canvas I\u2019d paint. I\u2019m looking forward to getting
    back into a studio where I can brainstorm with people who aren\u2019t convinced
    that their minds are the fount from which will spring human reality.\r\n\r\nInterestingly,
    though, I have no trouble doing type or lettering for myself. I can sit around
    drawing letters all day and not even notice the time slipping by, and I have plenty
    of ideas to keep me busy when I\u2019m job hunting in the next few months."
  created: '2008-04-27 05:52:10'
- author:
    name: Shawn_G
    picture: 113838
  body: This topic has been on my mind a lot lately. I've been trying to come up with
    a new identity for my company for the last two or three months now. I'll get a
    new logo I like, design business cards, website, etc., and then a week later I'm
    not happy with it. I think I've probably come up with 3 or 4 new looks for myself,
    but nothing sticks. I'm working on a new one now and I think I'm just going to
    draw the line here and go ahead with it. It sure is frustrating though...
  created: '2008-04-27 06:10:28'
- author:
    name: aa101
    picture: 114376
  body: "Firstly, excuse for my poor English but here is what I have to say.\r\n\r\nI
    think it's easy to analyze and give solutions for someone else's project than
    ones' own to design. Usually you are your own worst critic or client. When a client
    may reject your idea or have a different point of view, you usually can back up
    with good reason from principles and reasons that is the basis of your idea. It's
    hard to do it for yourself because the dialog is less back and forth, it's more
    jumbled in your head as both personalities in your mind come from the same person.\r\n\r\nI
    have had many problems trying to do my own site and it is embarrassing to tell
    people. My site hasn't been updated for the last 7 years, and it's beginning to
    hurt now in my freelance. I have been lucky that I get referrals so delaying my
    own promotions was too easy to push aside.\r\n\r\nWith the recent lack of clients
    in the last few months it's been a very good lesson for me. It's very humbling
    to look back and know how lucky I have been and appreciate security when I had
    it. \r\n\r\nSo finally, I have pushed myself to \"define\" myself through a website,
    a new business card because I just moved and all this worry and small pain has
    been humbling... \r\n\r\nMaybe all this delay is that I am don't have the personality
    to promote myself. I always believed that my work says more than what I have to
    say for myself to new clients and friends. However when you don't have work coming
    through you realize it is not about being brave to let the work speak for itself...
    it's more about getting people's attention that you are around in their minds.\r\n\r\n1.
    List the reasons why you are doing what you \"need\" to do for yourself in order
    to get your work out there..\r\n2. Stick to that agenda and give yourself a deadline.\r\n3.
    Promise yourself a reward if you do complete it on time.\r\n\r\nWe are all perfectionists
    but how perfect can we be when it never gets done?\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-27 12:23:37'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "I think you are not alone, Eric. Most of my design school buddies, and even
    some designers I worked for after I graduated, either had the same problem or
    made knowing jokes about it. For example, there is an old Spanish saying, \"En
    casa de herrero, cuchillo de palo.\" An English equivalent would be, \"The mechanic's
    car never runs.\" (The Spanish phrase translates as \"In the blacksmith's home,
    the knives are made of wood.\") \r\n\r\nIt took me forever to come up with my
    own letterhead and business cards, after many false starts. And like other designers,
    I was never happy with the solutions I came up with for myself! \r\n\r\nThere's
    a lot of truth in everything kidcranium says... Approach the problem as if it
    were for a third party -- list the clients' objectives, try to put down in writing
    what \"their\" design philosophy is, etc. Giving myself a deadline has worked
    for me as well. Also, I show my comps to fellow designers, to try to get some
    objective criticism. You will always have blind spots when you design for yourself...
    It's good to have another designer look at things with a cold eye.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-27 16:40:52'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "I don't like designing for myself, and I'm rarely happy with the result for
    more than two weeks, if even that long.\r\n\r\nThe Finnish proverb related to
    those mentioned by Ricardo is \"Suutarin lapsilla ei ole kenki\xE4.\" That is
    Cobbler's (Shoemaker's) children don't have shoes. I've heard it so many times
    by various designers, they just say \"shoemaker's children...\" and shrug their
    shoulders and roll their eyes.\r\n\r\nI try to have a fairly strict colour and
    font system and do something that feels right and maybe looks like me. I ask my
    family's opinion and if possible, some other designers' thoughts. Christmas cards
    are usually done in last minute, so there's no time to dwell on them too long.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-27 18:24:07'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>I\u2019ve heard it so many times by various designers, they just say
    \u201Cshoemaker\u2019s children...\u201D and shrug their shoulders and roll their
    eyes.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's so funny, Mili! In Spanish people do the same -- they
    just say, \"In the blacksmith's home...\" and everyone knows what they mean.  :-)"
  created: '2008-04-27 23:14:03'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: I have to inflate the importance of some imagined deadline then also tell
    myself it is only temporary (which is always true anyway). Then I try not to fixate
    on some perception of audience and try and please myself. But then my issue is
    that most of my work is horribly compromised in some fatal way so that I'm not
    so into it either.
  created: '2008-04-28 00:08:56'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Try to make it real. Write a design brief for starters. Try to approach it
    like another job. It is very hard indeed but if you just start messing around
    you won't get there. The brief will inform you, just like any other job.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2008-04-28 01:38:21'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"What\u2019s your secrets?\"\r\n\r\nAim for 'sufficiently adequate'. Otherwise,
    it becomes impossible. Graphic Design depends on constraints, and it's really
    hard, when you are the client, to enforce any constraints.\r\n\r\nThere's a reason
    a lot of big design firms have their logo as a name set in a typeface. ;0) "
  created: '2008-04-28 14:56:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am also a member of the shoemaker/blacksmith/automechanic club. I tend
    to make it like the Sistine Chapel and never finish (not Finnish, Mili :-)\r\n\r\nI
    think we have such expectations for ourselves that we can never meet. (Even Paul
    Rand had just a simple type business card and no logo.) We want to make the holy
    grail of design and are frustrated that we just end up with a coffee cup. I have
    had my web site in a constant state of construction for years and loathe the thought
    of working on it.\r\n\r\nI don't have any good advice since I have failed at completing
    self-promotion for years. I feel your pain though. I can only say \"just do it\"
    but can't even take my own advice.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-28 15:27:41'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>We want to make the holy grail of design and are frustrated that we
    just end up with a coffee cup. </cite>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/thcups_3582.jpg]\r\n\r\nhow
    true.\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-04-28 22:20:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I see Russ has been there a few times :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-28 23:29:40'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>I see Russ has been there a few times :-)</cite> ... & I've had the
    caffeine hangovers to prove it.\r\n\r\nWell, this thread makes me realize I'm
    in good company when it comes to falling down on the self-promo front.\r\n\r\nI've
    found it oddly encouraging and have actually started editing some code on my site
    once again. (delete, delete, delete...) (less is more)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-04-29 03:18:00'
- author:
    name: aa101
    picture: 114376
  body: I am very surprised that I am not the only one in the same boat. I think designers
    rarely admit to this so it's opened my eyes. Also I have been more motivated of
    late to do my own promotions, but it's not any easier.
  created: '2008-04-29 03:28:23'
- author:
    name: adz
    picture: 114865
  body: I love designing for myself, I consider it more self expressive art as apposed
    to design having a purpose.
  created: '2008-04-29 11:00:48'
- author:
    name: Rez Oo
    picture: 112817
  body: "Self satisfaction is the hardest thing to achieve, due to us all imagining
    ourselves better than we actually are, and so perfection can never be achieved,
    as someone will always do the same project better than the next person, whether
    it be the idea or the practical side of the project. However, since we're in an
    industry which is all about opinions, and nothing really is 'right', this isn't
    always a worry.\r\n\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nRez\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-29 11:33:15'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: I've found you have to work twice as hard if not more, and twice the timeframe.
    It helps to step away from your work and give yourself distance and time for reflection,
    more so than with typical client work. It does help to give yourself the same
    style of brief a client would give yourself and treat the process similarly. Clear
    objectives, a list of key attributes to define, an outline and some level of constraints
    are important to consider as well. (Although it's easy to abandon any structure
    when it's your own work/project)
  created: '2008-04-29 15:32:08'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: I've found you have to work twice as hard if not more, with twice the timeframe.
    It helps to step away from your work and give yourself distance and time for reflection,
    more so than with typical client work. It does help to give yourself the same
    style of brief a client would give yourself and treat the process similarly. Clear
    objectives, a list of key attributes to define, an outline and some level of constraints
    are important to consider as well. (Although it's easy to abandon any structure
    when it's your own work/project)
  created: '2008-04-29 15:32:23'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: Another secret is to do duplicate posts when replying to threads.
  created: '2008-04-29 21:58:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yes, Mike, I thought there was an echo in here :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-29 22:29:31'
- author:
    name: The Don Killuminati
    picture: 113938
  body: "Design is always easier when you know who you're talking to. So imagine a
    scenario whereby Prospective Client A says to Delegating Authority B, \"I think
    I've found a designer.\" Delegating Authority B is going to say, \"Oh really?
    Who?\" Design all of your own materials to impress Delegating Authority B. \r\nOr,
    said another way, every prospective client has somebody they want/need to impress;
    when you are designing your own identity that somebody is your real target audience.
    \r\nAnd knowing that you are addressing a fictitious, harried, socially higher-ranking
    third party who is responsible for the decisions and actions of subordinates and
    who's daily function is to stand as a symbol of their own skills in coordinating
    the work of others should make things a whole lot easier. \r\n"
  created: '2008-04-29 23:15:09'
- author:
    name: magnus_rakeng
    picture: 109817
  body: "I like designing for myself  but I agree that it's a challenge. Being your
    own client means that you have no one to blame if the result is  not as good as
    \ you want it to be. A few times I have designed the logo and the corporate identity
    for the design studio where I have been employed. It's a good opportunity to push
    yourself forward and to show your clients how great a designer you are, but at
    the same time it's a place you really don't want to do something mediocre. For
    a graphic designer the business card has a quite unique marketing value. A space
    where you can and should show what you can do. That is probably why so many designers
    think it's difficult and a bit scary. \r\nHere is the logo and the business card
    I did for Melkeveien where i work today.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/selfpromotion_melkeveien_5003.jpg]"
  created: '2008-04-30 00:16:13'
- author:
    name: aa101
    picture: 114376
  body: "I am redesigning my business cards now. I had an idea where I will show a
    bit of my work on each card, a total of 5 or 6. The reason is that I have had
    some nice clients (well known) and some less known but I was able to be more creative.
    \ I am weighing up whether to do a unique card with graphics, or show my past
    work. The reason is that I illustrate as well as design, so I have some collage
    work, vector cartoons, and fashion illustrations. I also caption each side with
    small sized type to say who the client is and which country the project is from...\r\n\r\nWhat
    is your view on this?\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-30 01:12:39'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I had a client that grew up under me and really dominated my time. That went
    on for many years (like eight!) and nothing I did for them really was interesting\u2014blah,
    blah, blah. When it came time to do cards and web and all the pieces associated
    I did some illustration just to inject a bit of myself and add some flavor to
    the whole thing. It was my attempt to say, yes I've helped these clients achieve
    what they wanted, but I am capable to doing something more interesting as well.\r\n\r\nI've
    always avoided having a signature look or style because I thought it would be
    in and then go away. I also see so much same. Now I really question that. Who
    knows? Looks like I'm about to move so I'll have a chance to rethink everything
    again."
  created: '2008-04-30 01:20:51'
- author:
    name: francis bold
    picture: 114825
  body: "When designing for oneself. . .\r\n\r\n\"Things should be made as simple
    as possible, but not any simpler\"\r\nAlbert Einstein 1879 - 1955\r\n\r\nIf only
    it was that simple!"
  created: '2008-04-30 01:24:33'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: "Ya, I think everyone has this problem. I recently did myself a new logo and
    website and a week latter I was ready to change it. Never mind that I'm still
    in the process of adding my work into the new site.\r\nIt's hard to be objective
    even when I set my own brief. Add to that my usual neurotic perspective while
    working on client work and it's a bit silly. So I just do myself \"good enough\"
    and call it a day."
  created: '2008-04-30 06:34:51'
- author:
    name: Rez Oo
    picture: 112817
  body: "I agree. There has to be a cut off point when working with projects for yourself.
    Where you have to say 'it'll do!'. Otherwise you end up working with your name
    set in the finest characters, or so you think at the time, and move it about for
    an hour to find the place where you think it works, only to want to move it a
    week later...\r\n\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nRez\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-30 09:15:43'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: Same here. I agree totally or even more so. You know you HAVE to get it right
    for the client but for yourself...well...you could be happy with as much or as
    little work you do for yourself as you aren't doing it for others. You could be
    easily satisfied haha. OI changed things over night. I'm in my bed, about to go
    to sleep and i'll have another idea. I'll wake up in the middle of the night to
    go to the loo and i'll have a better idea just sitting on the loo. Haha. Even
    funnier! That's the time when I'm ACTUALLY really thinking straight. How weird
    and wonderful.
  created: '2008-04-30 16:35:33'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: Who is your target audience? You are not designing for yourself, you are designing
    for them.
  created: '2008-04-30 21:55:03'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "Thanks for your thoughts everyone. Magnus, those business cards are hot.\r\nChristian,
    my target audience could be someone from any industry that utilizes designers.\r\n\r\nI've
    recently started some sketches of something that may have potential, so maybe
    I'll post when I have something substantial to show..."
  created: '2008-05-01 15:52:16'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "@Ricardo & mili: same in portuguese! We say \u201Cem casa de ferreiro, espeto
    de pau\u201D, which means \u201Cat a blacksmith's house, the spit is wooden\u201D,
    but since it's understood, we end up just saying the first part, \u201Cem casa
    de ferreiro\u2026\u201D. That's pretty interesting! Though probably it shouldn't
    be that amazing; it would probably be really amazing if we found something similar
    in an asian or african culture.\r\n\r\nAnyways, yes, definitely, totally, designing
    for ourselves is tough. I have no suggestions and I like \u2013 and have tried
    \u2013 some of these, but they're really hard to follow. As a designer, we kind
    of have the totally unrealistic job of summarizing entire personalities into one
    little piece. We rarely fully achieve that, but we still keep on doing it.\r\nIt's
    a lot easier when it's all about someone else, as it is a lot easier to give advice
    to others than to make decisions about our own lives. It's a bit about perspective.
    It's also about us not wanting to oversimplify ourselves and our lives \u2013
    as someone already mentioned \u2013, since we, human beings, like to think of
    ourselves as quite complex, and that's really a good thing. I think that we should
    probably try working for ourselves much more often, and I think that the day you
    fully understand yourself, your own thoughts and ideas, your personality, what
    you think matters, what you really want\u2026 that day you become a MUCH better
    designer and, more importantly, a much better YOU (in a sense that you'll probably
    become much more yourself than ever). Which I think is also rare. :P\r\nI think
    that's the ultimate challenge. This is actually an internal fight between the
    person we truly are and the person we would like to be and/or the person we would
    like others to think we are. It's really us trying to choose what's more important:
    appearances or true essence. And that's probably the only time we realize that,
    when we do stuff for other people, we are, in fact, putting this dilemma aside
    in exchange for money.\r\n\r\nSo, heck! This should be hard! No suggestions for
    you! :P\r\n\r\nruD"
  created: '2008-05-04 00:16:40'
- author:
    name: nonespam
  body: "It's my first post here on Typophile so hello to everyone.\r\n\r\nI'm really
    glad I stumbled upon this topic cause I've been thinking and discussing it a lot
    with my friends lately. I have rather web-design background so some of the stuff
    I'll say may seem irrelevant to some of you.  I've been struggling to come up
    with a good logotype and portfolio design for a few months now. I finally made
    it\u2014at least I hope so\u2014but the whole process was a pain in the neck.
    Here is what I realized:\r\n\r\n<strong>Have a clear idea of what you're design
    should be like</strong>\r\nIt may be so obvious, but many people find themselves
    acting to make a design not having even a slightly organized thoughts on it..
    I see a lot of guys launching their design tools and trying to come up with some
    cool instant prototypes. Seeking inspiration is crucial here.\r\n\r\n<strong>Make
    no deadlines</strong>\r\nOf course, you have to have a deadline when delivering
    a project, but if you can afford to wait\u2014do so, don't rush it. Bad, fast
    decisions can cost you a lot.\r\n\r\n<strong>Stick to the idea, but starting from
    scratch isn't always that bad</strong>\r\nInitially I wanted to design myself
    a nice graphic/web-design portfolio with some extensive usage of Helvetica, somehow
    I ended up having a vintage-like design full of sans-serif typefaces. I'm glad
    I changed my mind in the middle of the designing process cause I'm pretty much
    satisfied with the result, but abandoning work on half-finished project is not
    what everyone can do.\r\n\r\n<strong>It's awful unless you really think it's beautiful</strong>\r\nIf
    your not satisfied with a button or a small element of the whole you may want
    to work on it but if you're having second thoughts on the whole design line you
    should consider changing it. That's what I did with the Helvetica-based theme.\r\n\r\nI
    hope you'll find some of these useful if not obvious.\r\n\r\nKind regards,\r\n\r\nPiotr"
  created: '2008-05-04 23:08:24'
date: '2008-04-27 02:12:13'
title: Design for yourself...

---
