---
author:
  name: Adam Union
body: "This is my first Typophile post--please excuse any blatant ignorance\r\n\r\nI
  do the layout for a high school newspaper.  It is tabloid sized, five-columns, justified,
  2\" wide each (1.92\" text-useable when you include margins) and I'm having some
  trouble figuring out just what size to make the text typeface.  I've had to drastically
  updated it every issue as my design skills improved: I've gone from 9.8 pt Liberation
  Serif to 9.1 pt Georgia to *something* Utopia, hopefully, for the upcoming issue.\r\n\r\nI've
  had .15 pt condensing but I'm thinking of swtiching to .1 condensing with 9.4 pt.
  Utopia.  Leading has always been 10.2.  Here's the question: is that a good size?
  \ It's a high school, so too small and I don't think anyone will read it, but too
  big and huge spaces start to appear in the text.  I'm not a fan of hyphens, but
  I've let Publisher do its .25\" hyphenation.\r\n\r\nI've googled 'Utopia font sizes'
  but have come up with nothing--I can't find what size type works for other newspapers.\r\n\r\nIf
  you have any general size rules-of-thumb, I would appreciate it so much.  Thanks
  in advance"
comments:
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "From my own (limited) experience (I'm only on a college newspaper, now),
    I believe that most papers set their type between 8 and 9 pts with approximately
    1 pt leading (with hyphenation, a necessity), as you seem to be doing. But it
    all depends on the particularities of your newspaper -- the column width, page
    width, use of images, etc. You're definitely right that you don't want to scare
    off readers with too small type, but do consider that high schoolers do have good
    eyes, so a smaller point size may not be awful.\r\n\r\nI will say that when I
    redesigned my high school newspaper, I had just read [[Elements of Typographic
    Style|Bringhurst]] and decided to use his recommendation of 9 pts with 11 pts
    leading (using <a href=http://typography.com/fonts/font_overview.php?productLineID=100017>Mercury
    Text Grade 2</a>). Only later did I realize that I had given the type twice as
    much leading as was customary, making the typography more like a book's. But,
    in fact, it worked out quite well, as I found that the airiness of the leading
    allowed me to set pages with remarkably few images without seeming intimidating.
    I'm not necessarily advocating this for your paper, but experimenting to find
    the optimal size, leading, etc. for your publication might be the way to go.\r\n\r\nAlmost
    forgot: You can see lots of professional examples at the <a href=http://www.newseum.org/todaysfrontpages/main.asp>Newseum</a>.
    No point sizes listed, but you can get a feel for them."
  created: '2008-04-28 03:01:15'
- author:
    name: nmerriam
    picture: 109650
  body: "Adam - If you can, run out to your local bookstore and buy a copy of \"The
    Elements of Typographic Style\" by Robert Bringhurst. I think it's only about
    $15 or so, and you will find it an invaluable companion in your design education.
    It's one of the very, very few books that literally no designer in any field should
    be without -- I reread it every few years from cover to cover.\r\n\r\nIn general,
    9-10 pts will be just fine for a newspaper use. The biggest question is how long
    you want your lines of text to be, how you use your columns, and what leading
    you want to use. It certainly isn't going to make much difference whether you
    use (for example) 9.2 or 9.4 except as it relates to the leading.\r\n\r\nDo you
    know about leading grids? I'm guessing with a leading of 10.2 you're not using
    one, and for newspapers and magazines it is one of the really fundamental tools
    you want to use to create the basic design, along with the number of columns.
    A leading grid makes everything else easier, I remember stumbling across them
    in a design book when I was in high school (also working on the newspaper :D )
    and having a real combination \"duh\"/\"eureka\" moment. I'd imagine Google will
    turn up tons of stuff on \"leading grid\" that you can follow (as would searches
    for newspaper layout, newspaper design) but come back and ask if you need clarification.\r\n\r\nJust
    to throw out an example, if you're using a 5-column layout on a tabloid page,
    I might use 9.5 Utopia with 12pt leading. Then using a leading grid, we can say
    we want our headlines to have 24pt leading, so maybe 17-22pts in size. You can
    set captions at 9/11 in a lighter or heavier or italicized face. You can do subheads
    at 16/24 or even 11/12 or 12/12 depending on how tests for readability and choices
    you make about style work out. Essentially, start with your body copy, figure
    out what combination of leading and columns make it work for your goals, and then
    design everything else based on the body copy. You might wind up using 4 columns
    of text, or break it up into sub-columns so that you can introduce asymmetry without
    throwing off alignment. So if you designed the page around 7 columns, you would
    have 3 columns of text, each of which spanned 2 columns, and a column of white
    space on the outside of the page where photos can hang, captions can go, things
    like that. Designing with grids that way adds visual interest without making things
    arbitrary, but don't feel obligated to try out everything at once :D\r\n\r\nNathaniel"
  created: '2008-04-28 03:31:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: The Globe and Mail was set in 9 on 10 Utopia for many years, until last year's
    redesign changed the face.
  created: '2008-04-28 08:22:42'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I think you'll be hard-pressed to find a newspaper with text as large as
    10 pt. Most are in the 9 pt range, as someone already mentioned. It also depends
    upon the face. Some types designed specifically for newspaper text are actually
    targeted to be used closer to 8.75 pt, but look more like 10 pt. \r\n\r\nWith
    the typical narrow newspaper columns, you have to make a choice between hyphenation
    and atrocious spacing. Actually, you almost always get some bad spacing in such
    columns; you just do the best you can with overall H&Js to minimize it. As a result,
    generally speaking, newspapers use pretty much the most liberal hyphenation settings
    of any print medium -- unlimited hyphens in a row, two characters before <em>and</em>
    after, hyphenated capitalized words and names, etc. Many things that ordinarily
    wouldn't be tolerated in book typography, for instance. It pretty much comes with
    the territory.\r\n\r\nIf you've got the full pro version of Acrobat, you can spelunk
    in those Newseum PDFs and get information about the actual text specs of many
    papers.\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2008-04-28 13:14:43'
- author:
    name: Adam Union
  body: "Thanks for all these recommendations;\r\n\r\nUtopia at 9-9.5 pts is probably
    fine then\r\n\r\nI'll have to pick up that book, Elements of Typographic Style,
    sometime"
  created: '2008-04-28 13:41:54'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: Not to sidetrack the thread too much, but Kent, how do you see the point sizes
    and other specs in Acrobat? I have Acrobat 8 Professional, but all I've ever known
    how to do is see what fonts are embedded. Unless you just meant eyeballing the
    text up close.
  created: '2008-04-28 14:35:49'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Reed -- I have 7.0, but I assume it's the same in 8: Use the TouchUp Text
    Tool to place an insertion point or select a bit of text. Then control-click to
    get a contextual menu and select Properties\u2026. This should give you a dialog
    from which you can learn the specific font and size of the selected text. \r\n\r\nThere
    may be other ways of getting to this dialog, but that's the one that sticks with
    me.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-28 18:26:39'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Reed, you can also do that with Quite, \u201CA Box Of Tricks\u201D :\r\nhttp://www.quite.com/box/features.htm"
  created: '2008-04-28 18:34:39'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: Thanks a ton, Kent (and thanks, Alessandro; I hadn't seen that plug-in before).
    I guess I need to take some real Acrobat classes instead of assuming that using
    Reader has taught me all there is to know :-)
  created: '2008-04-28 18:51:55'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Some years ago a prepress man friend of mine came out with : \u201Cwith the
    Reader you do the beer !\u201D. He meant the Pro version can make the wine, but
    I guess it has humor to Italian wine lovers only."
  created: '2008-04-28 19:08:28'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: That fontsize info in Acrobat Pro is nice. Would be even better if it could
    also show leading. ;)
  created: '2008-04-29 03:51:25'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Best looking paper by far is the Los Angeles Times... at least for the US
    anyway. Most of the newspapers I\u2019ve seen are the best Font Bureau specimens
    you can ever get a hold of.\r\n\r\nMikey :-)"
  created: '2008-04-29 08:48:00'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> Would be even better if it could also show leading.\r\n\r\nI don't think
    this can easily happen, because PDF does not deal with leading. Each line is given
    a discrete x,y position, not based on the line above. This is why it is difficult
    to get text out of a PDF into WP or DTP formats again."
  created: '2008-04-29 14:05:12'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>I don\u2019t think this can easily happen, because PDF does not deal
    with leading.</em>\r\n\r\nAh, I see. Well the pointsize tip is already very handy.
    :)"
  created: '2008-04-29 14:59:00'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I seem to remember getting property information on leading in an earlier
    version of Acrobat. Back around v.5 I think. But I think aspects of PDF have evolved
    and maybe leading is no longer a relevant measure, as Don explained.\r\n\r\n--
    K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-29 20:03:11'
- author:
    name: michiganlaw
  body: "Dear Adam,\r\nI'm sure you are busy, so this suggestion is one that will
    save you an enormous amount of time.  The size of a tabloid page is approximately
    11 x 15.  Using Microsoft Word, set up a custom size of 11 x 15 (or whatever size
    you need).  Be sure the drawing toolbar is available.  From the drawing toolbar
    choose the text box tool, and draw a box the size of the page, less margins and
    headers or footers. Then paste your copy in the box in one column.  Change your
    type size to 9.5 or 10 point. By using the format paragraph command, set your
    leading to anything you wish.  Then select all the type; goto the format menu
    and select columns.  Choose the number of columns that you wish; set it for flush
    left,right or justified; choose the space between columns; add a line between
    columns (or not) and your page will be finished.  You may have a problem fitting
    the copy to the page size.  In that case you have no choice but to change the
    leading; change the point size of your type; use fillers to take up the space
    if you don't want to change the point size or the leading. I suggest you use ten
    point century with the leading at 11, for readability.  If you don't use fillers
    (cartoons; public service announcements etc.)you either have to change point size
    and leading as necessary or edit your copy to fit the space you have available.
    \ If you have any questions my email is hz@thelitigator.org.\r\nHerb"
  created: '2008-04-30 19:30:15'
- author:
    name: Adam Union
  body: "Thanks for all your help Herb\r\n\r\nIf only I had that 6 months ago when
    I was first doing layout!  It would have saved me a ton of time.  Now I'm pretty
    comfortable with Publisher--here's a (very low-res) screenshot of the latest issue
    (I'll probably start a new thread to ask for input as well)\r\nDo you think Century
    is better than Utopia?  I was planning to use 9.2 pt Utopia on 10.2 leading for
    the next issue...\r\n\r\nAdam[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Eye of the Tiger_4782.jpg]"
  created: '2008-04-30 22:43:39'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "SuperUltra: them's strong words man. Not even leaving the state, SF Chronicle's
    headline and text versions of Electra are something to behold. Esp the headline.
    Then again, I love Electra. Their sans, not so good. In fact I would say generally
    that newspapers often choose safe and stale sans whilest serifs and slabs are
    allowed tons of personality.\r\n\r\nAdam: that looks nice!"
  created: '2008-05-01 00:41:51'
- author:
    name: Adam Union
  body: "Thanks Randy;\r\n\r\nI'm thinking of changing all the Myriad to Chaparral..I
    think it looks a little austere now for a high school paper."
  created: '2008-05-01 04:29:40'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Randy, show me a sample of their Electra. I\u2019ve always thought of that
    face suitable for books not newspapers. Must be a new custom job. The LA Times
    uses a custom Kis which is really pretty and well suited for the task when I would
    have thought that Kis was for book reading. And you are right about that their
    sans\u2013 very clunky. \r\n\r\nAdam, I really like your paper. Chaparral is worth
    a shot tho.\r\n\r\nMikey :-)"
  created: '2008-05-01 08:45:56'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "Actually, their Electra, called \"Electric,\" was done by Jim Parkinson none
    too recently. <a href=http://www.adobe.com/products/adobemag/archive/pdfs/9609lskt.pdf>According
    to this interesting Adobe PDF</a>, it was designed prior to 1996. Looks like he
    also did a custom version of Metro for them, but that doesn't seem used for much
    of anything anymore.\r\n\r\nAdam, your paper has a really great modularity, with
    a lot of different elements to catch the readers eye -- very nice! But you could
    really use some white space for breathing room; the gutters between columns are
    very tight if not nonexistent, and you should put some between the different elements
    as well. Try building it into the template; it will make the newspaper a whole
    lot more attractive. Even if you don't implement a baseline grid as Nathaniel
    said (which is a great idea that worked well for me in the past), think of the
    white space as pacing your page -- you need the proper amount to give your readers
    a place to grab onto the next element or they'll be moving around so quickly they
    won't have anywhere to stop. As with many things, Bringhurst is good for understanding
    this, too.\r\n\r\nAnd while we're on the semi-relevant best-designed newspaper
    in the U.S., my favorites include the Houston Chronicle, Kansas City Star, and
    the Virginian-Pilot, with the WSJ, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, and Baltimore Sun
    as runners-up.\r\n\r\nEDIT: And I second Chaparral, though it might be a little
    light-hearted for news. If you do have any money you can finagle out of your school's
    newspaper budget, I would strongly recommend buying some new type (which of course
    people around here can help you out with) -- the perfect typeface(s) can go a
    long way toward establishing a strong identity, even if future generations are
    not as committed to design excellence as you are.\r\n\r\nEDIT 2: And, Mikey, they're
    not just Font Bureau specimens; there are a lot of Hoefler & Frere-Jones types
    in them, too ;-)"
  created: '2008-05-01 10:05:56'
- author:
    name: Adam Union
  body: "I've never known how to properly add whitespace--do it wrongly and it looks
    like you've made a bad layout mistake.\r\n\r\nShould I just add a bit of space
    under each headline?  That seems to be what several papers do."
  created: '2008-05-01 13:44:07'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "Yes -- and between your columns, where you really need it. But you're right
    that it can be a tricky business. To echo Nathaniel again, if you set up a baseline
    grid (though I don't know if you can in Publisher; in InDesign it's pretty easy)
    you can just use that to define all your white space issues. So a headline may
    be one, two, three, or four leads from the text, and so on.\r\n\r\nActually, in
    the Newspaper Designer's Handbook by Tim Harrower (which I actually recommend
    just as much as Bringhurst for you; it's incredible for explaining news design
    from the ground up), there is one page on spacing. He writes, as an example: \"Headlines:
    Above: allow 18 pts. between logos or unrelated stories and top of the headline.
    Below: Allow 6 points between descenders and text/photos below. Roundups and briefs:
    When compiling packages of briefs that use small headlines (12- or 14-pt.), use
    tighter spacing: 1 pica of space above the headline and 6 pts. below.\" Maybe
    this will give you an idea of how spacing might work.\r\n\r\nEDIT: Your idea of
    looking at other newspapers may in the end be the best way. You may want to look
    for ones that have a similar layout to yours and examine their use of white space,
    both within and without articles, horizontally and vertically."
  created: '2008-05-01 14:42:42'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Super: http://www.newseum.org/media/dfp/pdf1/CA_SFC.pdf\r\nThere is a very
    fine display cut for section heads too. On the front page you can see the subheads,
    italic and text. EDIT the newseum for the LA Times is strangely defaulting to
    times roman and stretching to match metrics. Looking nasty! What kind of newspaper
    is that?? :-)\r\n\r\nAdam: I think you need the contrast between serif and sans.
    Don't replace the sans with a serif. I might choose darker, more flat sided sans
    with tighter fitting. This is preference. If myriad and chapparal are the only
    choices, stick with myriad.\r\n\r\nA related and interesting read (previously
    linked on typophile): http://www.ascendercorp.com/pdf/Ascender_Corp_Fonts_on_the_Front_Page_11_19_2004.pdf\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-01 19:33:36'
- author:
    name: Adam Union
  body: "Publisher does have baselines which work perfectly...should I leave more
    space after larger headlines than after smaller ones?  Now I leave less than 1
    leading (10.2pt) after everything, which seems constricted.\r\n\r\nHere is a prototype
    of my latest layout design, with 1 leading space after the heading (from the descenders).
    \ Is that enough white space?\r\nI also bumped the inter-column spacing to .12\"
    from .1\".\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Prototype_3860.jpg]"
  created: '2008-05-01 21:36:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Your layout is fine.\r\nThe design has punch and immediacy, which is so important
    in a paper.\r\nAnd you've managed that with a considerable level of editorial
    complexity.\r\nIt would be a huge mistake to fancy it up by adding white space
    and non-news types such as Chaparral...which I can see you've just done, and already
    it's starting to look like a wishy-washy corporate newsletter.\r\nIn the context
    of newspapers, rules are much better than white space for demarcating content.\r\nIn
    general, it's a good idea to do the opposite of what graphic designers and typographers
    recommend for newspapers --unless they actually have experience in designing one."
  created: '2008-05-01 21:52:23'
- author:
    name: Adam Union
  body: "So Myriad is beter than Chaparral?  I thought Myriad was far too bland...I
    even considered switching to Helvetica because it looks noticeable and original
    by comparison\r\n\r\nBefore Myriad I used the new Microsoft font Candara for headlines,
    which is extremely informal.  Myriad was better, but I didn't think it was a great
    headline or caption face.\r\n\r\nAs the type designer for the Globe and Mail (I
    think it  looks fantastic, by the way), I will blindly listen to any newspaper
    layout advice of yours...what do you think the headline/sans font of the newspaper
    should be?\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-01 22:30:44'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "Well, Nick, maybe you do have a point; the current version above does feel
    newsy and a bit different. But those wide columns, especially at the bottom of
    the page, can feel oppressive without some white around them. At the least, I
    think you should make it consistent; if you're not putting space between article,
    then you shouldn't between columns within articles, either.\r\n\r\nIf you only
    want to use type already on your computer, you could try Corbel; it has a slightly
    harder feel to it than Myriad."
  created: '2008-05-01 22:49:43'
- author:
    name: Adam Union
  body: "I was thinking of Corbel earlier...I'll try it again.  Thanks for the advice.\r\n\r\nI
    must be doing columns differently: I have .12\" between every single column, even
    if they are in the same article.  The only difference is that between articles,
    a vertical line seperates columns with .06\" of room on each side.\r\nYou seem
    to be refering to another way of handling column spacing...what do you mean?\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2008-05-01 22:56:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "While it's possible to use any face, it's usually a good idea to pick something
    with short descenders for a newspaper. Corbel, for instance, would be nasty in
    \"Grade eights...\" with the descender of g and ascender of l bumping.\r\n\r\n<em>I
    thought Myriad was far too bland</em>\r\nUnless you're picking a specific display
    face, e.g. Meta Headline, it's probably better to go with a generic sans, and
    take the blandness off it by nuancing tracking, leading, and horizontal scaling
    to suit your layout.\r\n\r\nIf you're experimenting with controlling white space
    Adam, how about tightening up the tracking on the (Myriad) heads a bit?\r\nThat
    would \"drive\" out\" the white space into the surrounding area.\r\n\r\n<em>At
    the least, I think you should make it consistent</em>\r\n\r\nRight. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-01 23:27:36'
- author:
    name: Adam Union
  body: "OK, thanks.  The Myriad and Chaparral in the sample are tracked at 95% but
    I could always make it a little more condensed...\r\n\r\nThe real problem with
    Myriad, I think, is the the bold: its so bland as a headline font it hurts.  The
    semibold is even worse.  For captions and roman-weight titles it's excellent,
    though.\r\n\r\nI just compared Myriad to Corbel--Corbel has a nice clean look
    but feels too simple for the job.\r\n\r\nThe school does have Helvetica and Cheltenham:
    would either of those be good as the caption and/or headline font?  I know the
    New York Times uses both but its look is probably too formal for this setting."
  created: '2008-05-02 01:50:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'You may find that Myriad Semi-Condensed or Condensed works better for you
    for headlines--and you may have them on your machine as I believe that they have
    come bundled with some of the Adobe software. '
  created: '2008-05-02 02:48:46'
date: '2008-04-28 02:36:44'
title: Newspaper font size?

---
