---
author:
  name: Emma Ford
body: "Hello All,\r\n \r\nI am new to typography and I am trying to create a font
  set with Fontlab.  But I am having trouble making the capital letter \"O\" evenly
  wide in thickness all the way around.\r\n\r\nFor example, if I draw the black circle/oval
  in guidelines of (0,0) to (400,1000) and the white circle/oval in guidelines (100,100)
  to (300,900) I get an oval shaped \u201CO\u201D.  Then the mid-points of \"O\" i.e.
  the vertical mid-point measurement from (200,0) to (200,100) and (200,900) to (200,1000)
  is 100.  Similarly the horizontal mid-point measurement from (0,500) to (100,500)
  and (300,500) to (400,500) is 100.  So the width of the character line at these
  points is 100 but the width of the character line at other parts is not 100.\r\n\r\nDoes
  anyone know how to make the \"O\" even all the way around at 100 units thickness.\r\n\r\nThanks."
comments:
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Could you provide a picture? I do not really understand...\r\n\r\n(Beside
    the fact that you don't really want to make the stroke weight all equal in an
    O, not even in geometric typefaces \u2013 it just would look wrong.)"
  created: '2008-04-30 17:50:57'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Make your outer and inner contour just as you've described. Make a circle
    100 x 100 units. Move the circle to anywhere along the inner contour between the
    top or bottom and one of the sides. Adjust the curve of the outer contour until
    it touches the edge of the circle. Move the circle further along the curve and
    adjust the outer contour as needed. When one quadrant looks okay, note the lengths
    of the control nodes of the outer contour in the adjusted section. Use the same
    values for the other three sections. In this method, the inner contour controls
    the overall shape. If you prefer the outer contour, you would adjust the inner
    contour instead. Note, however, that this will result in corners at the top and
    bottom of the inside of the O, which you probably don't want.
  created: '2008-04-30 19:35:50'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Note also that this is not usually the way O's are drawn in real fonts. There
    are all sorts of optical illusions to take into account that have nothing to do
    with literal geometry, but with perceived geometry.
  created: '2008-04-30 19:41:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Just use the circle drawing tool in FontLab--drag the mouse with the shift
    key down. That will get you very close to a geometrical circle. Strictly speaking
    it is not possible to draw a real circle with bezier curves, but you won't be
    able to see the difference. \r\n\r\nAn O made with two circles generally doesn't
    look right, as Mark said. Only Avant Garde has that, I think, though I may be
    wrong. \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2008-04-30 20:23:47'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I think Emma is trying to draw an O that looks like a tall, narrow ellipse.
    Assuming I followed her description correctly.
  created: '2008-04-30 20:34:33'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "By the way, a method that may work better is to draw your inner ellipse first.
    Add at two nodes between the top, bottom, and side nodes, all the way around.
    Then, do Contour > Paths > Make Parallel Path... with a setting of 100 units.
    (Depending on the direction of the path, you may need to change it from left to
    right or right to left. Also, the path directions will need to be corrected after
    the procedure, since they will end up going the same direction, which you don't
    want.) If you don't add the extra nodes, the result will be identical to your
    initial example. The extra nodes force the distance to be the same all the way
    around (or at least closer to that ideal).\r\n\r\nHere's how it looks:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ellipses_4523.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    one on the left is your original O, the one on the right was constructed starting
    from the inner contour with extra nodes added and the Make Parallel Path command."
  created: '2008-04-30 21:26:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Sorry, I didn't read the original post carefully. \r\n\r\nTo expand on Mark's
    point about visual vs geometrical: generally horizontals look thicker than verticals
    of the same physical width, so that when the top and bottom of an oval are the
    same as the sides they look thicker. \r\n\r\nYou can see this effect most strikingly
    by playing with the widths of the strokes in a 'plus sign': for the lines to look
    the same weight the vertical has to be thicker than the horizontal. "
  created: '2008-04-30 22:27:15'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Absolutely. I also didn't mention overshoot. I left these two optical adjustments
    out to focus on the problem at hand.
  created: '2008-04-30 23:35:48'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Note also that this is not usually the way O\u2019s are drawn in real
    fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nAnother exercise for seeing this: type a large letter O in
    Futura (or Helvetica, too) in Illustrator. Then, in another layer, and using a
    different color, draw two perfect circles to match the inner and outer outlines
    of the letter O as closely as possible... This will let you see the optical adjustments."
  created: '2008-05-01 06:45:59'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: My hat is off to you guys. What great and complete answers. Cheers!
  created: '2008-05-01 07:18:27'
- author:
    name: Emma Ford
  body: "Thank you all for your contributions.\r\n\r\nWe look forward to the day when
    the font software can draw an oval perfectly even all the way around automatically."
  created: '2008-05-01 16:03:35'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Note however, the outer contour is not "a perfect oval" in the corrected version,
    only the inner one is. I guess what you mean is, the parallel path function should
    be more rigorous, and not take the shortcut of simply scaling the curve. I have
    to admit that I was surprised that the parallel path command did not produce the
    desired results without adding the extra nodes.
  created: '2008-05-01 17:18:11'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'I just checked: Illustrator does the same operation correctly when you use
    the "offset path" command. Extra nodes are even inserted on the path it produces.
    So, perhaps an easier way would be to make the shape in Illustrator and move it
    to FontLab via the clipboard.'
  created: '2008-05-01 17:23:49'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: ">>>>We look forward to the day when the font software can draw an oval perfectly
    even all the way around automatically.>>>>\r\n\r\nBut it could and I have used
    it for drawing one of my glyphs in a perfectly equal-width line.\r\n\r\nTools/Panels/Smart
    Shapes/Ellipse  Specify the height and the width to get a circle or oval/OK. Then
    repeat the operation using the same height and width minus double the required
    line width. That draws a smaller circle or oval nicely centered inside the first.
    \ Before de-selecting the inner shape, reverse its contour direction Contour/Paths...
    and Voila!   Smart Panels is one very useful function Fontlab spent a lot of effort
    to hide from view.\r\n\r\nAs for the optical illusions associated with curves
    and lines, isn't it possible to ignore them and obtain interesting effects that
    are not necessarily bad? Besides at large display sizes the eye would sees the
    absolute line widths more clearly. I am just mentioning this as a possibility
    as it seems to me that correctly adjusting for optical illusions may be a fine
    art not always easily covered by facile rules of thumb."
  created: '2008-05-04 05:14:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Besides at large display sizes the eye would sees the absolute line
    widths more clearly. </cite> \r\n\r\nIs this right? \r\n\r\nWhat about when you
    are farther away. Then they come back into play - no?"
  created: '2008-05-04 06:21:37'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: It depends. I think the horizontal/vertical thickness rule can be ignored
    when a mechanical appearance is desired. The overshoot rule is harder to break
    since it has a bearing on the apparent relative size of shapes.
  created: '2008-05-04 06:22:35'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Thanks Mark!
  created: '2008-05-04 07:34:26'
- author:
    name: daniele capo
    picture: 113718
  body: You are trying to draw a curve parallel to an ellipse drawing another ellipse.
    The problem is that the offset of an ellipse in NOT an ellipse, so the only way
    is using Make Parallel Path or a similar approach.
  created: '2008-05-04 09:16:17'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Eben--I was replying to Vladimir's comment, but you must have jumped in just
    before I posted.\r\n\r\nSome say that overshoot should be proportionally less
    for display sizes and proportionally greater for text sizes. If this is true,
    the further away you are, the smaller the shapes will appear, and the more overshoot
    you will need. I'm not so sure about this. I've never noticed O's appearing smaller
    relative to flat-sided letters when they were farther away. In any case, if it
    were true, it would be impractical to do anything about it, given that type may
    be set at virtually any size and viewed at any arbitrary distance. (Put \"This
    poster best viewed at five feet.\" at the bottom in small print?)"
  created: '2008-05-04 15:18:57'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Mark, could you explain the extra nodes more fully?\r\n\r\nI have never quite
    understood them, though I have a feeling that my designs require them.\r\n\r\nThanks"
  created: '2008-05-04 19:00:51'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "What other advantages do the extra nodes provide? Do they need to be positioned
    on the extrema (at 45\xB0)?"
  created: '2008-05-04 19:05:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"We look forward to the day when the font software can draw an oval perfectly
    even all the way around automatically.\"\r\n\r\nWe look back on the day when people
    were not so lazy. "
  created: '2008-05-04 21:16:24'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "The nodes I placed were arbitrary, but sufficient to force FontLab to make
    a path that is more parallel. Adobe Illustrator places the extra nodes closer
    to the top and bottom, which presumably are the optimum places to put them.\r\n\r\nThe
    extra nodes may not be strictly necessary. It may in some cases be possible to
    draw a curve with only the top, bottom and side nodes that is very close to the
    same as the one with the extra nodes. But there is a limit to the kind of contour
    you can make with just two control points. You cannot make every possible curve
    that would fit between the two nodes. In fact, as William pointed out, even a
    circle can only be very closely approximated--not a perfect circle--when described
    with B\xE9zier curves. If you can't get the curve you want, you may need to add
    nodes. But don't use more than you need."
  created: '2008-05-05 03:02:49'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Eben, Mark: In wondering whether one can ignore the illusion rules I was
    not criticising a sensible practice honed over centuries by lettering and font-design
    practitioners.  Rather I felt that\r\n \r\n1-Illusions are not quantifiable and
    a beginner (like me) can over-do this fine-tuning and the result would be just
    as 'wrong' \r\n\r\n2- In some scripts like Arabic, or for some fonts that are
    less than mainstream in design, or some uses like advertising or illustration,
    illusions may be acceptable. They may even  enhance certain glyphs in close-viewing
    situations or in certain combinations with other glyphs by providing visual variety
    in unexpected ways. "
  created: '2008-05-05 08:15:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Vladimir, the illusion rules are partly quantified, but there is a whole
    lot that hasn't been quantified yet. For example, generally, overshoots are said
    to work in the 2-3% range. But it is also argued that they should be different
    for bold characters and pointed characters. And Matthew Carter has said that he
    generally thinks that the S needs slightly less overshoot to look balanced. \r\n\r\nI
    think knowing the general guidelines is very useful, but equally important is
    not to view them as iron-clad rules, but instead to rely on your eyes. \r\n\r\nThis
    is assuming you want the balance such guidelines are aimed at achieving. Your
    design may not want such balance, particularly in a display face. For example
    if you have a 'bouncy' baseline, you might want to have a character look shorter.
    Or if you wanted it to look brutally mechanical, you might want the heaviness
    that geometric equality of horizontal and vertical can give in roman script. \r\n\r\nI
    think the 'rules' do change to some extent from script to script. In the Roman
    script the rule is heavy verticals and thin horizontals. Our eyes are accustomed
    to that, so violating that looks heavy, whereas in another script with different
    underlying 'rules' it won't.\r\n\r\nSo there is a mixture of the universal--the
    way human visual perception works--and partly conditioning by the usual rules
    of the script. \r\n\r\nOverall, I think the thing is to be aware of how what we
    see and what is on the paper or screen are significantly different, and then to
    make a conscious decision on how to deal with the differences to get the effect
    we want in the viewer.  "
  created: '2008-05-05 14:11:14'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: 'Thank you William for your excellent summary of your thoughts about this
    interesting topic. I am currently finalizing an Arabic font that has all its line
    widths equal - I wonder what is a good description for such an attribute: doesn''t
    ''mono-width'' refer to equal overall width of the glyphs between their sidebearings?  Indeed
    some portions of my glyphs appear thicker or thinner than others because of illusions,
    but somehow I find that acceptable. In large sizes I like the clean ''absolute''
    or ''pure'' look of the outlines. Are there any good Latin or other scrips that
    have equal outline widths?'
  created: '2008-05-06 13:07:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Are there any good Latin or other scrips that have equal outline widths?\r\n\r\nI
    don't know of any, though there might well be. I just checked Avant Garde in the
    big sizes you can display on Font Shop and even there the O seems to be slightly
    thinner on the top and bottom compared to the sides. \r\n\r\nThere are reversed-contrast
    fonts, though. The 'Old West' slab styles are like this, though they are kind
    of novelty display faces. The most famous reversed-contrast sans is Antique Olive,
    and a more recent one FF Balance. I don't like either of these personally, but
    they are well crafted and have a certain look. \r\n\r\nI don't read Arabic script,
    but here would be my guess: equal weight of horizontal and vertical strokes will
    still make the horizontals look heavier than the verticals, because that's the
    way the eye & brain work. But since the Arabic script is generally heavier in
    the horizontals, it might well not cause the problems it does in roman styles,
    and the letter forms may still look \"normal.\" So I can conceive of it working
    fine, though I really don't know. \r\n\r\nAn interesting comparison might be the
    recent Hebrew typeface Erica sans, whose name is a tribute to Eric Gill's sans.
    Hebrew script also follows the heavy horizontal light vertical rule--maybe it's
    connected with right to left writing? And generally I think doing the latin script
    rules in Hebrew letters looks awful. But somehow the designer here brought it
    off brilliantly, and this face won a TDC award and is now very popular in Israel.
    You can read an interview with the designer [[http://www.oketz.com/iontef/|here]].
    \r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2008-05-06 14:04:10'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Thanks William - this is very interesting and educational. I measured the
    O in Gill Sans and it was thinner on top than on the sides.  Then I used your
    link to the article by the disigner of Erica- he seems to have done a good job
    of emulating Gill Sans and it is very nicely done. \r\n\r\n>>Hebrew script also
    follows the heavy horizontal light vertical rule\u2014maybe it\u2019s connected
    with right to left writing?>>\r\n\r\nArabic has many script variants (and their
    font adaptations and derivatives) but the most common ones do indeed have a thick
    horizontal and a thin vertical.  On the other hand there is the strictly geometrical
    kufic which has equal width for both. The Arabic in Arial font follows the general
    rule but the Hebrew there has thin horizontals and thick verticals!  \r\n\r\nThis
    thread started out with a discussion of a perfectly round O, a feature of Johnston's
    London Underground lettering and Gill's adaptation. Gill's writings on typography
    and his  Sans were a big influence in my work."
  created: '2008-05-07 16:20:34'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>I am currently finalizing an Arabic font that has all its line widths
    equal - I wonder what is a good description for such an attribute: doesn\u2019t
    \u2019mono-width\u2019 refer to equal overall width of the glyphs between their
    sidebearings?</cite>\r\n\r\nInstead of \"mono-width\" it's \"monospace.\"\r\n\r\nThe
    other term you're looking for is \"monoline.\"\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-10 12:38:59'
- author:
    name: Emma Ford
  body: "Thanks Mark I tried the two suggestions and particularly the Cut and Paste
    from Illustrator works very well.\r\n\r\n>>Tools/Panels/Smart Shapes/Ellipse Specify
    the height and the width to get a circle or oval/OK. Then repeat the operation
    using the same height and width minus double the required line width. That draws
    a smaller circle or oval nicely centered inside the first. Before de-selecting
    the inner shape, reverse its contour direction Contour/Paths... and Voila!<<\r\n\r\nVladimir
    I tried to follow your suggestion but I could not get it to work. I am new to
    Fontlab and I do have an older version (4.6).  The closest I could find was Windows>Primitive
    Panel>Ellipse.  I Placed the outer ellipse with Properties and then OK.  I then
    Placed the inner ellipse with Properties and before deselecting it with OK I did
    Tools>Operations>Reverse Contours.  But this did not work.\r\n\r\nPlease can you
    explain where I have gone wrong."
  created: '2008-05-13 13:56:21'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Emma  >>I did Tools>Operations>Reverse Contours. But this did not work.\r\nPlease
    can you explain where I have gone wrong.>>\r\n\r\nWhat you did sounds right- unless
    you had both contours selected when you reversed them. When an inner contour has
    the reverse direction of the outer, where the two overlap is subtracted so you
    get a proper O shape with a hollow centre. If both contours run clockwise or both
    anticlockwise the inside O will be filled- there is a little arrow on each contour
    that shows the direction.  Study the Fontlab 4.6 manual for alternate  ways to
    reverse the contours for example by trying \"set PS direction or Set TT direction\"
    buttons if they exist, as they do on the 5.0 version. Good luck. "
  created: '2008-05-13 15:38:21'
date: '2008-04-30 15:33:58'
title: Making the letter "O" even in width all the way around.

---
