---
author:
  name: adz
  picture: 114865
body: "Hey - thought I'd shed a little insight to a project im working on...\r\n\r\nI
  am studying the evolution of language and how graphic design and technology is constantly
  morphing our visual language into areas we have to adapt to. Im finding interesting
  links between the creations of ancient Hieroglyphics to modern pictographs in the
  category of signography - aesthetically and conceptually.\r\n\r\nI feel that modern
  advancements such as the rise of the home computer are ruining the beauty and respect
  that typography deserves. Basing my investigations on these evolutionary theories
  I'd like to predict the future of our visual language in the commercial world and
  raise awareness to the graphic design industry. With major brands and commercialism
  constantly climbing - I feel that is it time to address our means of displaying
  visual language for we as Designers are the ones controlling it (everything you
  read has gone through some form of printing press & designer)\r\n\r\nTYPE AS IMAGE
  is a central focus to these sets of ideas - when designers think of typography,
  we invariably consider semiotics which consists of semantics (the relation between
  signs and the concepts they represent), syntax (the formal relation between signs
  in a system), and pragmatics (the study of signs in use). \r\n\r\nMy aim (at this
  pint of the project) is to bring meaning back into typography based on the placement
  area it is set in, namely public spaces. Typography is embedded into our everyday
  life therefore it becomes part of us and our culture. \r\n\r\nUsing type as image
  I'd like to let the area it is set in talk about the type as opposed to the type
  talk about the area.\r\n\r\nI like the first project on this site:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.dancemade.com/\r\n\r\n^
  The digitalized geometric typeface is moving forward in time and the process of
  making the wooden typographic installations allows the overall process to be much
  more powerful.\r\n\r\n\r\nHope all this makes some kind of sense.\r\n\r\nWhat are
  you thoughts on it?\r\n\r\nI have all these ideas but typographically they seem
  hard to solve.\r\n\r\nAny help, ideas, recommended artists appreciated!!\r\n\r\nAny
  questions just ask.\r\n\r\n\r\nThanks.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "<em> \u201C I\u2019d like to predict the future of our visual language. I
    have all these ideas but typographically they seem hard to solve.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nWhat
    do you exactly mean with \u201Ctypographically,\u201D Adam ?\r\nNeedless to say,
    it is still true that if you want to learn new things, you should try reading
    old books. The map is not the territory. Shaping context and connections is an
    act of architecture ; a new form of space requires a new form of architecture,
    and spaces made of information requires information architecture.\r\nHope this
    helps a bit."
  created: '2008-05-02 14:28:18'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I am studying the evolution of language and how graphic design and
    technology is constantly morphing our visual language into areas we have to adapt
    to.</cite>\r\n\r\nClearly <em>someone</em> has adapted to these areas, or they
    wouldn\u2019t be there in the first place.\r\n\r\n<cite>I feel that modern advancements
    such as the rise of the home computer are ruining the beauty and respect that
    typography deserves.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s rubbish. Talk about that with some
    older designers who lived through metal type and phototype about it. You should
    also talk to Simon Daniels at Microsoft and the Cleartype font type designers,
    who are bringing fabulous, respectable type to the world\u2019s most common computing
    platform. And interview some authors of books on typography that have only seen
    print because of what cheap computing has done for the cost of publishing, or
    Gary Hustwit, who was able to produce a feature film homage to typography because
    of computers.\r\n\r\n<cite>With major brands and commercialism constantly climbing\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nBranding
    and commercialism are not new or becoming any more a part of our society than
    they ever were, it\u2019s just that different things are getting all of the attention.
    Do you think that the royalty of feudal nations had all those flags and crests
    just because they looked cool? And the visual branding of Christian myth and the
    sale of indulgences really wasn\u2019t all that different from Coke ads, except
    that Coke doesn\u2019t have eternal damnation backing it up. Read Steve Heller\u2019s
    <a href=\"http://www.designobserver.com/archives/036544.html#more\">latest bit
    about designers seeing armageddons that aren\u2019t really there.</a> Paula Scher\u2019s
    <a href=\"http://creativity-online.com/?action=news:article&newsId=124983&sectionId=pov\">Advertising
    got Better</a> is a bit of tangentially related food for thought.\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026for
    we as Designers are the ones controlling it\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, the clients
    who pay for it all are the ones controlling it. Outside of some art galleries,
    designers don\u2019t have an audience if they aren\u2019t producing stuff that
    the clients are willing to pay for. They\u2019re the ones creating whatever it
    is that needs to be communicated. They\u2019re the ones who have a message to
    get out. Designers are somewhat incidental, and as the success of Head-On and
    its amateur advertising has shown, crafty clients can do just fine without designers.\r\n\r\n<cite>when
    designers think of typography, we invariably consider semiotics which\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nActually,
    I\u2019m pretty sure that most designers don\u2019t. Semiotics is more of an academic
    thing than something designers invariably think of.\r\n\r\n<cite>My aim (at this
    pint of the project) is to bring meaning back into typography based on the placement
    area it is set in, namely public spaces.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat meaning has really
    been lost? Isn\u2019t the essence typography the communication of some other meaning?\r\n\r\n<cite>The
    digitalized geometric typeface is moving forward in time\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nSo
    is almost everything else in the universe. Everything we produce is a product
    of its own time; type that references the past are as a much an expression of
    the contemporary and its infatuation with history as \u201Cnew\u201D designs are.\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026the
    wooden typographic installations allows the overall process to be much more powerful.</cite>\r\n\r\nOr
    do they just move the whole thing somewhere less noticeable?\r\n\r\nRight now
    I think that you\u2019re in a place a lot of us end up in academically: you have
    a lot of interesting thoughts that have probably been influenced by a lot of interesting
    reading, but you aren\u2019t sifting out the ideas that are just, well, wrong.
    Proceeding will be a lot easier if you can sift the good ideas from the bad and
    justify their rightness. Christians have a parable about a wise man building his
    house on the rocks of the beach and not the sand. It applies here."
  created: '2008-05-02 15:07:02'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>we invariably consider semiotics which consists of semantics (the relation
    between signs and the concepts they represent), syntax (the formal relation between
    signs in a system), and pragmatics (the study of signs in use)</cite>\r\n\r\nWhere
    did you get that from? Morris? Bense? ... For a clearer (and at the same time
    obscurer) conception of what semiotics is about, have a look into Peirce's own
    writings. It's worth the efforts.\r\nYou'll quickly find out that there is no
    stand-alone science 'semiotics' as which it is sold here and there. Whenever Peirce
    talks about signs, he does so in a strictly epistemologic sense and in the context
    of his three categories, cosmology, etc. Once scholars started extracting something
    like 'semiotics' from this corpus, they ridiculed rather than improved it.\r\nAlso,
    the time when designers thought they need semiotics' vocabulary to give themselves
    a scientific touch hopefully is over since one or two decades now.&nbsp;&nbsp;;-)\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-02 17:56:40'
- author:
    name: adz
    picture: 114865
  body: "Ha whoa this is totally blown up.\r\n\r\n\r\nAlessandro\r\n\r\n\u2022 What
    do you exactly mean with \u201Ctypographically,\u201D Adam ?\r\n(Solving it from
    a typographic perspective) - The solutions will all be visual.\r\n\r\n\r\nMr Puckett\r\n\r\n\u2022
    Clearly someone has adapted to these areas, or they wouldn\u2019t be there in
    the first place.\r\nWell yes that's exactly my point. We all subconsciously  adapt
    to it.\r\n\r\n\r\n\u2022 That\u2019s rubbish. \r\nYou mis understood man (but
    i can se where your coming from), look around tho - bad typography is everywhere.
    Because half the people creating it haven't a clue what they are doing. People
    make posters and other print related material on programs like Publisher using
    standard PC fonts etc.\r\n\r\n\r\n\u2022 No, the clients who pay for it all are
    the ones controlling it.\r\nOnce again that's my point. Do you think that this
    is an issue????\r\n\r\n\u2022 Actually, I\u2019m pretty sure that most designers
    don\u2019t. \r\nOk maybe some don't. Academic thing? Totally - I was educated
    to do so.\r\n\r\n\r\nK.I. \r\n\r\nYeah you should look at this article if you
    can find it;\r\n\r\nSignography as a Subject in its Own Right\r\nby Andreas Stotzner\r\n\r\nReally
    interesting. \r\n\r\nI should upload it. I'll try figure out how. \r\n\r\nThanks
    for all the feedback. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nBut do you feel that objects like pictographs
    are becoming the beginning of the progression towards new letterforms?\r\n\r\nThats
    more or less my core idea^\r\n\r\nAlso the language in today's graphic world -
    look at logotypes - almost every logo is a made up word and spelt incorrectly.
    Do you think this has an effect on our language? Not just has designers but as
    people. \r\n\r\nRemember I'm speaking from more of a linguistic point of view.
    Typography is just the tool I will use to visually communicate this issue.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-03 01:48:25'
- author:
    name: adz
    picture: 114865
  body: "An idea I had was to study a few areas around the city and design some typefaces
    for THAT specific area. Reflect the mood of that area through the type. \r\n\r\nThen
    make installations using these typefaces to show the voice of that area. \r\n\r\nThoughts?
    \r\n\r\nCheers. "
  created: '2008-05-03 02:37:15'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "What I found was this article (<a href=\"http://www.signographie.de/cms/upload/pdf/signogr_einfuehr_1.0.pdf\">German</a>
    and <a href=\"http://www.signographie.de/cms/upload/pdf/signography_intro_1_eng.pdf\">English</a>).
    Actually, this belongs to my category \"designers thought they need semiotics'
    vocabulary\".\r\nA few remarks about the first part of this introduction, \"What
    is a sign?\":\r\nA. Stoetzner's use of semiotics' vocabulary indicates that he
    does not know much about it. Semiotics and semiology are not the same, as he suggests
    with \"(semiotics or semiology, teaching of signs in a most general sense)\".
    What he gives as definition of \"sign\" leans towards Morris whose take was fashionable
    in the 80s when the <em>Handbook</em> was written, but has already been criticised
    40 years earlier (see below). Stoetzner cannot be blamed for citing from Noeth's
    <em>Handbook of Semiotics</em>, but he can be blamed for obviously not having
    read anything else. In the last sentence of the first part he reveals his complete
    misconception of semiotics when he criticises semioticians, again confounding
    them with semiologists: \"Strangely enough, semiologists have hardly considered
    so far what is most commonly regarded a sign: the graphic sign.\" Since semiotics,
    regarded as epistemology, is concerned with sign-an-sich, of course \"the graphic
    sign\" is part of its domain.\r\nJohn Dewey had a nice closing sentence, in an
    article criticising Morris' take on Peirce: \"'Users' of Peirce's writings should
    either stick to his basic pattern or leave him alone.\" That was written in 1946
    (article in J.o.Ph.) and is still true.\r\n\r\nIf you, like Stoetzner, think that
    graphic signs have been neglected by semioticians, then you should have a look
    into periodicals like <em>Semiotica</em> where you'll find articles like M. Nadin's
    <em>Interface design: A semiotic paradigm</em>, also there was an entire issue
    titled <em>The semiotics of the visual: On defining the field</em>. (These issues
    are from the 80s too.) So if Stoetzner refers to semiotics' shortcomings for the
    sake of justifying his own project, he doesn't do himself a favor.\r\n\r\n<cite>Remember
    I\u2019m speaking from more of a linguistic point of view.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou should
    decide. Semiotics or linguistics? Semiotics is much broader and, regarded as epistemology,
    includes but is not restricted to language.\r\n\r\n<cite>An idea I had was to
    study a few areas around the city and design some typefaces for THAT specific
    area. Reflect the mood of that area through the type.</cite>\r\n<cite>Then make
    installations using these typefaces to show the voice of that area.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    sounds like an interesting project. My question is, why theory at all? I think
    that you don't need any. If your approach is a sentimental and emotional one (reacting
    against what you perceive as decline of visual culture), then why not argue like
    that and forget about the pseudo-scientific paint? There is nothing bad about
    it -- I would consider this as the more honest approach."
  created: '2008-05-03 11:53:52'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>Signography as a Subject in its Own Right\r\n[\u2026]\_I should upload
    it. I\u2019ll try figure out how.</cite>\r\n\r\nDon\u2019t. It\u2019s already
    online:\r\nhttp://direct.bl.uk/bld/PlaceOrder.do?UIN=138637357&ETOC=RN\r\nhttp://vcj.sagepub.com/cgi/reprint/2/3/285\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-03 13:27:04'
- author:
    name: adz
    picture: 114865
  body: "Ok Hardwig cheers.\r\n\r\n<cite>Quote:\r\nThis sounds like an interesting
    project. My question is, why theory at all? I think that you don\u2019t need any.
    If your approach is a sentimental and emotional one (reacting against what you
    perceive as decline of visual culture), then why not argue like that and forget
    about the pseudo-scientific paint? There is nothing bad about it \u2014 I would
    consider this as the more honest approach.</cite>\r\n\r\nThanks Karsten, thats
    definitely more of a more straight forward approach. I'll look into it.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-03 15:47:43'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Cool, thank you!
  created: '2008-05-03 15:59:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>But do you feel that objects like pictographs are becoming the beginning
    of the progression towards new letterforms?</em>\r\n\r\nNo, because they don't
    represent language.\r\nWhen grouped together, they do not become sentences, but
    are more like mathematics or cartoon sequences."
  created: '2008-05-03 20:29:31'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "I am not sure you don't need any theory as Karsten suggested since a good
    one is probably the best practice, plus another question you can try to answer
    is, <em>when and util when the image can be considered writing ?</em>\r\nVisualizing
    (works on) proxemics might be something on your interest as well."
  created: '2008-05-03 23:53:01'
- author:
    name: adz
    picture: 114865
  body: "<cite>No, because they don\u2019t represent language.\r\nWhen grouped together,
    they do not become sentences, but are more like mathematics or cartoon sequences.</cite>\r\n\r\nTrue.
    But look at the whole theory of hieroglyphics. The little image based glyphs were
    a form of language. I'm just curious that's all. In some cases I feel that the
    future of language is heading towards the use of image based letter forms. (Probably
    highly incorrect BUT it's kind of interesting) I made this little piece to communicate
    the idea - focusing on the evolution of the word; <cite>Laugh.</cite> \r\n\r\nhttp://i64.photobucket.com/albums/h170/Adz_07/Picture8.png\r\n\r\nI
    mean, I think it's just an interesting area of research to go into - I know that
    no-one can predict the future - or can we?? oo0o0o0\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>I am not
    sure you don\u2019t need any theory as Karsten suggested since a good one is probably
    the best practice, plus another question you can try to answer is, <strong>when
    and util when the image can be considered writing?</strong></cite>\r\n\r\nThat's
    is definitely part of the core focus of my project! Actually, that very idea is
    probably the only theory I need, it holds a enough depth just on its own.\r\n\r\n<cite>Visualizing
    (works on) proxemics might be something on your interest as well.</cite>\r\n\r\nProxemics,
    this is rather insightful. \r\n\r\nThanks people!\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-04 02:01:50'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Have you seen <a href=\"http://www.thomas-scharnowski.de/JuliGudehus/\">The
    Creation</a>, pictographically staged by <a href=\"http://www.juligudehus.net/\">Juli
    Gudehus</a>\r\n\r\nF"
  created: '2008-05-04 12:56:47'
- author:
    name: adz
    picture: 114865
  body: "That's really interesting - (visually)\r\n\r\nBut the content is all garbage
    haha."
  created: '2008-05-04 13:27:07'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "@ Karsten L\xFCcke\r\n\r\nYes, I can be blamed of having not read much about
    semiotics. But I do not have any misconception of semiotics, because I just have
    no conception of semiotics at all. You\u2019re right, I don\u2019t know much about
    it. The reason is: I simply don\u2019t think I need it.\r\n\r\nI am basicly a
    practical graphic professional who is *to a certain extend* in need of some theory.
    A theory which is a *tool*. The craftsman has no mercy with a knife which isn\u2019t
    sharp. Therefor, as a designer, I don\u2019t think I need a semiotics\u2019 vocabulary,
    or very little of it.\r\n\r\nI once tried to start studying semiotics with Umberto
    Ecco\u2019s \u201CIntroduction\u2026\u201D. Around page 40 I was fed up and abondoned
    the volume: unreadable. Later I thought I\u2019ll look into N\xF6th and get some
    useful overview. The treatise came out being nothing else than a fat who-has-written-what-and-when-account.
    Every semiotist (or semiologist?) seems to have his privat theory. Well then,
    was my conclusion, there\u2019s obviously no other way out: do it yourself.\r\n\r\nWhen
    a comprehensive volume about an established subject proves outdated after only
    two decades, then this subject doesn\u2019t deserve to be called a science \u2013
    or the author did it completely wrong. What a need shall I have of such a kind
    of theory? Who really cares about the loads of paper produced by semioticians?
    Why does semiotics do not appear on graphic designer\u2019s timetables? Why does
    nearly no one in the real world care about semiotics at all, left aside the semioticians
    themselves?\r\n\r\nEveryone may come to his own answer to that. But many lines
    in this thread reveal a terrific lack of conceptions among you, fellow graphic
    designers (sorry for that). The least we graphic people need is to cover that
    misery by a theorie\u2019s vocabulary which is incoherent, diffuse and scholastic.
    What we need instead, if ever, is a straight-forward theory of graphic communication,
    of graphic systems, of graphic means, of the graphical as such. This is what I
    propose with my humble outlines of a subject called \u201Csignography\u201D (which
    is yet far from being an elaborate system). The mere fact that a lot of signographic
    concepts being coherent or neighbouring semiotic concepts just lies in the nature
    of the subject. For me, that fact is no reason to subordinate my thinking under
    the rules of an established scholastic tradition. I know, that makes me a persona
    non grata for a certain faculty\u2026\r\n\r\nBy the way, the article \u201CSignography
    as a subject in its own right\u201D was launched to a british magazine by linguist
    Hartmut St\xF6ckl, who is now teaching at Salzburg University. For my own part,
    I welcome any effort to develop *useful* theory for the graphic business.   A:S\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-05 17:55:33'
date: '2008-05-02 13:28:13'
node_type: forum
title: Type Project - Evolution of Visual Language.

---
