---
author:
  name: missgiggles
  picture: 111889
body: "Does it matter what degree classification you have? I mean a 1st or 2:1 or
  do you think too many people think too much about it, as they never get asked what
  classification they get in employment. Do they? At the 4 designers conference in
  London, they mentioned the fact that no one asks about it. Is this a good attitude
  to give out to students or erm...bad? WOuld just liek your views on it. Thanks.\r\nPS
  isn't it the attitude, the personality, the way one thinks and the passion for design
  that REALLY matters or all of the above and more so? Please enlighten me.\r\n\r\nPPS
  Would you rather be daring when it comes to design and fail or would you be safe
  and get a good grade?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Freeza
    picture: 114205
  body: "No it doesn't. What it does matter is that you passed through the university
    experience.\r\n\r\n-\r\n\r\nwww.nunocoelho.com"
  created: '2008-05-03 13:43:10'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: Interesting because it seems like there is competition at university for who
    gets the best marks and yes...it helps to determine who is good and the best but
    what about daring-ness? What about attitude to take risks? What about passion
    for the subject? What about other characteristics needed to be a great designer
    that aren't throughly applauded upon at university. Students are not able to take
    risks due to the fear of failing. What would you say to degree students?
  created: '2008-05-03 15:35:06'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>What about attitude to take risks?</cite>\r\n\r\nFor most people just
    going to design school\u2014as opposed to, say, business school\u2014is pretty
    risky and takes a lot of courage to begin with. And your professors are probably
    pushing you to risk more than you realize.\r\n\r\n<cite>What about other characteristics
    needed to be a great designer that aren\u2019t throughly applauded upon at university.</cite>\r\n\r\nLife
    goes on after university. In a field like design university is just the beginning
    of one\u2019s education.\r\n\r\n<cite>Students are not able to take risks due
    to the fear of failing.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd that experience prepares them for the
    real world, where taking the wrong risks can bankrupt a designer and possibly
    a client. \r\n\r\n<cite>What would you say to degree students?</cite>\r\n\r\nDon\u2019t
    worry so much. You\u2019ll be done soon enough."
  created: '2008-05-03 16:31:35'
- author:
    name: Freeza
    picture: 114205
  body: "In my opinion, everyone should get to university and if it's a good one,
    better. Now... there's good and bad university's , some School's as James said
    can pass you a wrong idea of whats the industry or how it works leading many people
    to abandon design later on. And there's the good ones that will make you grow
    both professionally and as a person. On top of all that...there's the school as
    an Business so of course it's of they're best interest to appear on the charts.\r\n\r\nBasically
    for me where you studied or your grades are important at a first/superficial look/evaluation
    only to know something about you and your path. But what really matters for me
    is the works you did, your personality, your will and how you work.\r\n\r\nSo
    if you wanna do something risky and different, do it at school, and learn from
    it, explore yourself. See the other's reaction and take advantage that there's
    no client or money involved :) Just evolve as a person and learn something more
    then just designing, that's what's University is for.\r\n\r\n-\r\n\r\nwww.nunocoelho.com"
  created: '2008-05-04 18:49:33'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "It is easy to say look at this one, he/she made a difference or was important
    etc; and he/she didn't get a degree and so on. There is no shortage of examples
    of amazing self starting folk. But they are exceptional. \r\n\r\nIf you are going
    to decide that university or other training doesn't matter you had better be ready
    to throw 110%+ at getting where you want to go on your own.  That is a rare sort
    of person and you had better be honest with yourself about if that's the kind
    you are.\r\n\r\nThe converse is also true. Good grades at school don't always
    translate into success afterwards - but they don't hurt one bit. Not because the
    work itself is necessarily a key to or identical to what real jobs are like, but
    because learning how to hit the task hard and keep pushing until you get the result
    you want is not something everybody knows how to do. Getting good grades shows
    know how. That you have the will to get things done and are probably not going
    to be a prima dona about it.\r\n\r\n<cite> PS isn\u2019t it the attitude, the
    personality, the way one thinks and the passion for design that REALLY matters
    or all of the above and more so? </cite>\r\n\r\nNo. They matter but they are far
    far far from being enough. If that were so then everybody who was a laugh at a
    party would be hugely successful. They are not. It takes hard work.\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-04 22:59:45'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Your personality and portfolio are what gets you work. University is a means
    to and end for that.
  created: '2008-05-05 14:50:55'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>But they are exceptional.</cite>\r\n\r\nCompletely disagree. Not to
    reopen this debate or anything but most of the successful designers I know didn't
    go to school for it. "
  created: '2008-05-05 15:28:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Patty, that's anecdotal.\r\nFaz, if you want stats on this kind of issue
    in the UK, check out Icograda and its surveys. Otherwise, don't take your nose
    off the grindstone--compromising your principals in order to get good marks is
    unlikely to have lasting effects on your design mojo.\r\n\r\n<em>Would you rather
    be daring when it comes to design and fail or would you be safe and get a good
    grade?</em>\r\n\r\nThat sounds like a design brief, where one is required to resolve
    conflicting criteria. So, why not design a way to be daring and get a good grade?"
  created: '2008-05-05 20:00:26'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Patty couldn't it be said that the most successful designers are also self
    starters? And that they are rare?\r\n\r\n<cite> Not to reopen this debate </cite>\r\n\r\nNo
    not at all ;-)\r\n\r\n<cite> compromising your principals in order to get good
    marks is unlikely to have lasting effects on your design mojo. </cite>\r\n\r\nWell
    put."
  created: '2008-05-05 21:57:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: In other words Patty, I don't see that what you are saying and I what am saying
    are obviously in conflict. They could very well be true at the same time.
  created: '2008-05-05 22:28:53'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "To me school grades can tell on a job interview if you have some discipline
    are organized and like to follow the rules. I had bad grades on the university
    and have bad discipline, bad organization and feel discouraged by rules, all of
    this brings me trouble but these things don't really make me a bad designer, just
    a bad employee jajajaja.\r\n\r\nSeriously as stated above, the important thing
    about university is learning and having the experience of going to it is the most
    important thing. I'm doing well after all and university did help.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2008-05-06 02:40:13'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "A degree can help you get an interview. A portfolio will always get you the
    job.\r\n\r\nAs for higher degrees, they are mainly useful if you want to teach
    in the field."
  created: '2008-05-06 14:34:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'When I was a student in England, long, long ago, whether a person got an
    upper second or a lower second was the usual dividing line on whether they were
    able to get into post-graduate education. This was not in the design field, but
    I suspect that how high the degree is might affect further education possibilities
    more than employment. That''s a question to ask, anyway. '
  created: '2008-05-06 14:51:45'
- author:
    name: Freeza
    picture: 114205
  body: "I'm with H\xE9ctor, dotn like the rules that much\r\n\r\n-\r\n\r\nwww.nunocoelho.com"
  created: '2008-05-06 19:51:42'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "<em>compromising your principals in order to get good marks is unlikely to
    have lasting effects on your design mojo.</em>\r\n\r\nNick, is the typo deliberate?
    'Cause I'm laughing so hard I can't get off the floor."
  created: '2008-05-06 21:10:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: No, but it's all good, as they say :-)
  created: '2008-05-06 21:24:34'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: It is truly sage advice :-)
  created: '2008-05-06 21:37:02'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Also, I think "design mojo" is a great turn of phrase.
  created: '2008-05-07 03:24:34'
- author:
    name: Rez Oo
    picture: 112817
  body: "The state of the educational system in the UK today, its a case of who you
    know, rather than what you know. Its a joke. *sits back and stares out of the
    second floor studio window... ; ) \r\n\r\n__\r\nRez\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-07 09:19:34'
- author:
    name: VIEW
    picture: 114874
  body: "Your personality and portfolio will always be the most important factors
    when getting work. University enables you to experiment and find your own style
    of working which is hugely important. Finding your own way of working and being
    successful leads to job satisfaction and in turn increases the productivity and
    quality of future work. \r\n\r\nUniversity is important for self development,
    but, the final grade is overshadowed by the individuals personality, passion for
    the subject and portfolio.\r\n\r\nVIEW."
  created: '2008-05-07 09:21:50'
- author:
    name: VIEW
    picture: 114874
  body: "Who did you get to know Rez?\u2026  ; )\r\n\r\nVIEW."
  created: '2008-05-07 09:57:11'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: Haha! Heard that one before about 'who you know, not what you know'. I have
    also had people telling me that some universities may mark higher than others
    on a certain piece of work. Don't you think that gives a wrong indication to students
    because they find out when they arrive in the industry environment and isn't it
    too late then? Or is it not the end of the world?
  created: '2008-05-07 12:22:33'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "When I taught at design schools, as my students became overly concerned with
    grades, I would tell them that, \"no one is going to ask you what grade you got
    in Typography 3 all they care about is your ability to demonstrate to them that
    you can do the work.\" I also told my students that I had never gone to design
    school, and was pretty much self taught, with the occasional night school class
    at SVA.\r\n\r\nI know there are firms in NYC that only consider graduates from
    certain programs (or at least heavily favor them). But I wonder if the era of
    the self-taught designer is still with us, or is it over?\r\n\r\nI stopped teaching
    at design schools, because I came to realize that I could no longer be apart of
    a factory system that takes in students, charges them extraordinary tuition, and
    essentially gives them vocational training, rather than an education. A small
    fraction of these students will go on and get work, the rest will do something
    else, but they will be ill prepared to do that something else since they have
    received a sub-standard education. Some of those ill-prepared students, who couldn't
    land a design job will go on to graduate school, rather than give up on their
    dream of a design career.\r\n\r\nAt approximately $40,000 a year for a top design
    school, how can you justify $160,000 to $250,000 in loans for a career that will
    start you out in the high $20K low $30K and will take years to advance to a modest
    6 figure income?\r\n\r\nI don't have any real answers to my complaint. I have
    said before that design is the new acting, and every year students invest heavily
    to enter schools for both fields. The acting students go in with their eyes open,
    being told from the very beginning how difficult it is to make a living as an
    actor. New design students have not been given the same good advice.\r\n\r\nJames\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-07 13:18:54'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Grades don't matter a whit once you graduate.\r\n\r\nJames - the same is
    now true of the fine arts - it has become necessary to have an MFA and now the
    curators are going straight to arts grad programs to mine for artists. Be interesting
    to see where  some of these students are in 5 or 10 years. Myself, I'm trying
    the \"labor in obscurity until my vision has matured and then spring full-blown
    onto the scene in later life\" approach.\r\n\r\nAnyway I'm glad not to have had
    to play off the grad student loans."
  created: '2008-05-07 16:52:59'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "James, if you ever have an opening let me know and I\u2019ll move to New
    York!"
  created: '2008-05-07 17:08:00'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "Faz, it's important to keep in mind that your career starts *after* school.
    Getting a job is much more important than the politics that are going on at school.
    That another university marks differently doesn't matter. That individual instructors
    mark differently doesn't matter. That a fellow student gets a higher mark than
    you on a project doesn't matter. What matters is what *you* are learning, and
    whether you are developing your design mojo. You will get a job\u2013or you will
    fail to get that job\u2013based upon your design mojo. "
  created: '2008-05-07 17:44:38'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: 'Get good grades. It will help keep your options open. If you ever want to
    do grad school or even do something else good grades will open doors. '
  created: '2008-05-08 04:43:42'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Still having good grades helps, too low grades may get you in trouble on
    some job interviews.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2008-05-08 05:26:23'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>Still having good grades helps, too low grades may get you in trouble
    on some job interviews.</cite>\r\n\r\nI couldn't disagree more."
  created: '2008-05-08 15:48:07'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Still having good grades helps, too low grades may get you in trouble
    on some job interviews.</cite>\r\n\r\nFor what it\u2019s worth, nobody has ever
    asked me about my grades on job interviews. "
  created: '2008-05-08 17:37:52'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "I've only been asked about my education in the school level, grades have
    not been mentioned and nobody wants to see the papers. In a way the fact that
    one was admitted to a certain school seems to be enough, but even that is not
    important after a few years' work experience.\r\nIn design job interviews my portfolio
    has been the most important thing alongside my personality and the wave length
    with the interviewer."
  created: '2008-05-08 17:54:48'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "If you are in school shouldn't good work EQUAL good grades? \r\n\r\nIn general:\r\nPeople
    who see your portfolio full of great work should be able to pre-suppose that you
    received good grades. \r\nPeople who see your good grades should be able to pre-suppose
    a portfolio full of good work. \r\n\r\nGood grades equals a hard worker. Employers
    want hard workers.\r\nGood work equals a hard worker. Employers want hard workers.\r\n\r\nI
    don't see why there is anything to discuss.\r\n\r\nIf someone wants to go to school
    then great. If not, great. Everyone has a different path. But, the truth of the
    matter is that most schools teach fantasy-land work so if there is a problem at
    all it is schools not putting the students under real-world production problem
    solving."
  created: '2008-05-08 18:49:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "To be a good designer, you have to be analytical enough to find the heart
    of the problem you have to solve, people-savvy enough to convey your logic well
    to your clients and coworkers, and talented enough to do the job. You have to
    ask yourself if your grades suffered because of your own deficiency or that of
    your teachers. This is a tough one to judge without bias :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-05-08 19:07:29'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "If you apply on a big corporation or a position on the public service you
    are likely to have your last degree of education's averagre grade scrutinized.
    I had to answer for my grades on my actual job interview at the government.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2008-05-08 20:52:39'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>People who see your portfolio full of great work should be able to
    pre-suppose that you received good grades.\r\nPeople who see your good grades
    should be able to pre-suppose a portfolio full of good work.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think
    the former may be true, but not the latter. I have seen plenty of really mediocre
    portfolios from \"A\" students. When I taught it was very difficult to get an
    \"A\" in my class. I had the reputation of being a very tough grader. But I didn't
    see it that way. I threw \"B\"s and \"C\"s around, and if you just showed up you'd
    pass the course (with a C- or D) but you'd pass.\r\n\r\nI think all design schools
    should be Pass/Fail, with the portfolio review the sole arbiter of class rank,
    if class rank is important to anyone. Better yet, you could withhold grades for
    the seniors altogether until you saw who got hired and by whom. Then you could
    dole them out and point to the fact that all your grade A students landed really
    impressive jobs. Great for recruitment if no one looked to close! Hah!"
  created: '2008-05-08 21:00:53'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Yes. That is true, James. I was on a set course and didn't think that one
    through. \r\n\r\nI also like the idea of all creative classes being pass/fail. "
  created: '2008-05-08 21:20:03'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I don't think it's necessary to have them pass fail.  Well, maybe at a school
    that doesn't nothing but design, but with an art department there's no reason
    to keep up the standard system:\r\n\r\nF: You didn't do the assignment\r\nD: You
    tossed it together the night before\r\nC: You did the assignment as instructed\r\nB:
    You <em>really</em> did the assignment, good job.\r\nA: You went above and beyond
    all expectations and produced something above the expected level.\r\n\r\nAt my
    university, you could still eek out a good grade in a failed* project (I'm thinking
    about my senior new media project...) if you documented the creative process and
    then turned that documentation into a project in and of itself since part of the
    idea is to learn through your projects.  If you showed you had learned and how
    you might have done things differently to have gotten a  successful project, you
    might not get top marks but still good ones.\r\n\r\nAlso, if you're planning on
    working in the public sector (not the best place for design jobs, though they
    exist, but I'm sure I'm not the only one who isn't a designer by day on here),
    the degree is absolutely necessary.  And while grades might not matter hugely,
    though I have been asked for transcripts (again, not a design job), if you plan
    on working in another country and need to convalidate your degree which you must
    do for all public and some private jobs, course selection can be more important
    than grades.\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas
    nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>\r\n\r\n*failed
    here meaning one realized it was impossible to complete the objects one had set
    out for oneself at the beginning, as opposite to turning in crap work or non-existent
    work.  In my case, I couldn't secure the equipment I needed, though it didn't
    matter since I got tripped up on my networking code)"
  created: '2008-05-09 01:50:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think grades and tough crits are a good idea for design school. If you
    want to survive in this business, you better learn to accept criticism and have
    tough skin. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-05-09 03:14:43'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: I agree that a career starts from the first design job and beyond. If the
    foundation is good, then it'll give you a good start.
  created: '2008-05-09 10:39:16'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nI agree that the ability to survive requires a tough skin,
    and the sooner one develops that tough skin the better. But crits in school are
    much different than the crits one receives as a professional. In school the crit
    is always framed as a learning experience. Constructive criticism is what I think
    they call it. Most client critiques lack this compassionate edge."
  created: '2008-05-09 15:56:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Most client critiques lack this compassionate edge.\"\r\n\r\nUnquestionably
    true! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-05-09 16:19:33'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: I see being a tough cookie helps. Sometimes, a tough cookie could turn so
    hard, so nasty...it might start hurting others. SIlly cookie.
  created: '2008-05-09 16:33:58'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>In school the crit is always framed as a learning experience. Constructive
    criticism is what I think they call it. Most client critiques lack this compassionate
    edge.</cite>\r\n\r\nOh I had plenty of non-compassionate art teachers. Students
    reduced to tears in crits. However, that is good preparation for the working world.\r\n\r\n<cite>the
    truth of the matter is that most schools teach fantasy-land work so if there is
    a problem at all it is schools not putting the students under real-world production
    problem solving.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis statement is the source of my bias against
    design school. Plus I found design school grads often had a sense of entitlement
    - walk right in and expect to be handed plum design work rather than do whatever
    you're handed, keep your eyes open, have a good attitude and earn the right to
    do the good projects. "
  created: '2008-05-09 16:44:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"a tough cookie could turn so hard, so nasty...it might start hurting others.\"\r\n\r\nBut
    tough nasty cookies don't get return work. The trick is, the client gets to be
    nasty but the designer has to remain calm and positive. This is the thick skin
    part and why good people skills are important for success. Designers provide a
    service to a client. Clients can choose to use you for that service or hire someone
    else. Very few very sought after designers have the luxury of choosing clients.
    Those lucky few did not find themselves in that position by being nasty to clients.
    Designers have to learn how to be skillful communicators and collaborators. Would
    you hire someone who was nasty to you? There is a big difference between a designer
    who has done their homework and speaks effectively and can get their point across
    without negative behavior and an egocentric bully who is so demanding that nobody
    will work with them.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-05-09 17:22:14'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: And yet... people keep hiring Louise Fili.
  created: '2008-05-09 17:33:27'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I was a student that had to be reduced to tears before I really grasped what
    it was I was attempting to do. Yeah, I think the teacher was a little over the
    top, but his kind of teaching put me on the right track. When I became a teacher
    I consciously avoided doing what he did, but never forgot the lesson he taught
    me. In school the teacher was the client, so I always worked to please the teacher.
    I was lucky. I had teachers that I could trust in that I knew if they approved
    of my work it meant it was good. In life I work to please the client. Underlying
    all of this \"pleasing of others\" is me making sure I think I'm still doing good
    work.\r\n\r\nIt isn't about becoming tough. It is about understanding. Understanding
    the clients needs in terms of how you can solve them with what you have to offer. "
  created: '2008-05-09 17:38:51'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>It isn\u2019t about becoming tough. It is about understanding. Understanding
    the clients needs in terms of how you can solve them with what you have to offer.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd
    about recognizing that if your client is not ultimately satisfied with the work,
    then your design was not successful, regardless of whether or not you agree with
    him. It can be extremely frustrating when a client asks you to do something you
    don't want to (I'm dealing with this right now on a book cover) but you need to
    pick your battles and if you alienate the client you lose the client. Some are
    worth losing, but in this economy... that's not a luxury I want to take. It can
    also be hard to avoid \"design fatigue\" which is that point in the design process
    where you are willing to do almost whatever they ask in order to get the job DONE
    and your invoice paid. It happens, and the more experience you have (and the more
    extensive portfolio) the easier it is to accept that some jobs are just not going
    to end up in your portfolio."
  created: '2008-05-09 19:29:03'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "<em>And about recognizing that if your client is not ultimately satisfied
    with the work, then your design was not successful, regardless of whether or not
    you agree with him.</em>\r\n\r\nVery true. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-09 20:55:47'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026if your client is not ultimately satisfied with the work, then
    your design was not successful, regardless of whether or not you agree with him.</cite>\r\n\r\nRubbish.
    A design can be quite successful and never satisfy the client, because clients
    \ may simply be stupid and desire random changes that undermine the requirements
    they set forth in the first place. Sometimes the designer has failed to communicate
    why the design works in a way the client can understand, but sometimes the client
    is just plain stupid.\r\n\r\nI once worked for a client who requested an advertisement
    on a very short timeline, designed to fit into an existing campaign. Several successful
    ads were produced, the client chose one\u2026and requested a minor aesthetic change.
    The change was made, and then the client requested another, and another and so
    on. Fourteen color shifts, shadow angles, weight changes, etc. later the window
    of opportunity was past and the ad died. Every version was a successful design,
    but the client could not be satisfied because the client was stupid and refused
    to be satisfied."
  created: '2008-05-09 22:18:16'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "<em>Every version was a successful design, but the client could not be satisfied
    because the client was stupid and refused to be satisfied.</em>\r\n\r\nIf the
    client went to a different designer for his next project, or didn't pay for all
    the time spent on revisions, the design was not successful. This is a business.
    We provide a service for money. Ideally, we also like what we do."
  created: '2008-05-09 23:23:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>If the client went to a different designer for his next project, or
    didn\u2019t pay for all the time spent on revisions, the design was not successful</cite>\r\n\r\nBy
    that measure Louis Kahn is among the worst architects in history."
  created: '2008-05-09 23:54:57'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "James,\r\n\r\nTo say a design was not successful is not the same thing as
    saying it was not good. Clients reject excellent designs all the time often for
    very misguided reasons. But as Ken points out we are in the business of servicing
    said clients and if the client doesn't get what they want we have not done our
    job. Sometimes the best thing to do is agree on a kill fee and walk away."
  created: '2008-05-10 01:48:58'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: There are many kinds of success. Louis Kahn is one. But think of the standard
    american paperclip. That is one seriously successful design! If by success you
    mean ubiquity and such deep penetration into the culture that the design itself
    ceases to even invite question - almost like air. Agreeing to a kill fee and walking
    can be a huge success too. I am of course not advocating for any of the above
    per se. Just saying that inevitably you place your own goal posts and in so doing
    keep your own score.
  created: '2008-05-10 08:21:53'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: IT is interesting to see how this thread has morphed.
  created: '2008-05-10 13:12:27'
- author:
    name: Freeza
    picture: 114205
  body: "true.\r\n\r\n-\r\n\r\nwww.nunocoelho.com"
  created: '2008-05-18 12:34:35'
date: '2008-05-03 13:12:06'
node_type: forum
title: Degree classification...does it REALLY matter?

---
