---
author:
  name: Nick Shinn
  picture: 110193
body: "There was recent mention of the Bringhurst \"bible\" and its focus on book
  typography.\r\nI looked at the book I'm presently reading. A somewhat anecdotal
  approach for generalization, but a pretty typical example of what's out there.\r\nThe
  book is a finalist for the Los Angeles Times Book Prizes, and made the New York
  Times Bestseller list, so there is absolutely no excuse for the cheap and shoddy
  typographic design, which, according to Mr Bringhurst, dishonors the text.\r\n\r\nIt
  severely pains me to read the damn godless thing, which is frustrating, as it's
  quite interesting, and I would like to finish it.\r\n\r\nHere are a few of the issues.\r\n.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cover_5986.jpg]\r\n1.
  The cover. A bit dreary, but nothing terribly wrong, apart from a bit of sheep shagging.
  The question that must be asked though, is why this bears absolutely no relationship
  to the design of either the title page or the main text. Isn't there something horribly
  wrong with this institutionalized norm?\r\n.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/first_6031.jpg]\r\n2.
  The very first page. Right off the bat, faux small caps!\r\n.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/title_5830.jpg]\r\n3.
  The title page. \r\n.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/spread_4293.jpg]\r\n4.
  Main text. Where are the margins? There's nowhere to put my thumbs! It's incredibly
  dysfunctional to be holding the book at the top as one reads the bottom of the page,
  causing shadows, and making one's arms ache.\r\n.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/closeup2_6203.jpg]\r\n5.
  Tabular lining figures. This is a book with a lot of numbers in the text, so wouldn't
  that be a tip-off to the publisher that it might end up looking like a technical
  manual? Didn't they notice? There's nothing inherently wrong with the Century style
  of face for text--except that surely, in this day and age of InDesign and all the
  marvellously-featured fonts that Adobe bundles with it, a book publisher would use
  a typeface that has old-style figures, or at the very least, proportional figures?
  Finally, a small thing; it would have been better to not break lines between the
  numbers and \"Hz\". And wouldn't ff ligatures be nice?!\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Maybe someone should start a blog comparing the crap type in printed books
    with the crap type in ebooks, so that the publishers realize how little consumers
    will really be losing when they make the switch. I love real books, but if a time
    comes that I have to choose between a $10 eBook download and a $15 trade paperback
    typeset by someone who barely speaks english printed on paper I wouldn\u2019t
    wipe my ass with, the book loses."
  created: '2008-05-03 17:31:22'
- author:
    name: twistedintellect
    picture: 113700
  body: "Imo, the cover is terrible, too. At least compared to <a href=\"http://nytimesbooks.blogspot.com/2007/12/this-is-your-brain-on-music.html\">the
    UK version</a>\u2026\r\n\r\nYou\u2019re absolutely right, this isn\u2019t anywhere
    near an atypical example; and it is physically painful to watch\u2026"
  created: '2008-05-03 18:12:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It looks like another case of \"one from column A, one from column B\" design.
    Rather than hire decent designers, they just trow together any damn thing from
    a recipe book and have it printed. There are plenty of capable designers out there
    but the bean-counters can shave a buck by not hiring any of them. It is also common
    practice for cover designers to never see the interior and vice versa.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-05-03 18:55:10'
- author:
    name: nmerriam
    picture: 109650
  body: Interesting that you pointed out that the cover design bears no relationship
    to the contents. I've been puzzled by this as it relates to movies the past decade
    or so -- now that trailers and posters seem to be made by folks who have no relationship
    or even contact with the people making the actual movie, it's quite jarring to
    have a really strong poster design for a particular title, and then have that
    identity totally thrown away during the title sequence, and then have the title
    sequence identity totally thrown away during the film.
  created: '2008-05-03 19:00:45'
- author:
    name: nmerriam
    picture: 109650
  body: Wow, the UK cover is so vastly superior. I hope someone in the US publishing
    office prints out those two covers somewhere and asks "why the hell are we using
    this cookie cutter design on a bestselling book?"
  created: '2008-05-03 19:13:56'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Very Very Dire. Too right. '
  created: '2008-05-03 22:32:34'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "The UK cover \u2018design\u2019 is horrible, too\u2014design-wise much worse
    than the US cover\u2014though at least it draws the eye, which I suppose is the
    ultimate goal of any book cover."
  created: '2008-05-03 23:38:44'
- author:
    name: nmerriam
    picture: 109650
  body: "Well, I think design-wise, the UK cover is better, though the type is difficult
    to read. The UK cover is more emotive, unique, and eye-catching, as well as I
    think conceptually representing the subject of the book better. The sheet music
    on the US cover looks like a generic stock photo they found in 20 seconds looking
    for the keyword \"music\", and the overall tone seems almost...depressing.\r\n\r\nI'm
    curious, other than the legibility of the light, reversed type (which is certainly
    no minor thing when you're talking about a book cover, I agree), is there anything
    else about the US cover you think is better?"
  created: '2008-05-04 04:32:54'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> almost...depressing </cite>\r\n\r\nI would go straight there. It is
    a depressing horrible cover. The UK one while being a sort of visual riot - does
    look fun."
  created: '2008-05-04 05:15:44'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: Maybe the designer of the US cover mainly listens to music like shoegaze or
    drone metal.
  created: '2008-05-04 07:56:50'
- author:
    name: Typical
    picture: 112513
  body: "Mediocre book design is becoming commodotized. I have recently seen a number
    of books by a reputable academic press: they were all designed by a company in
    India, using TNR and TNR bold as the main design elements. The pages weren't ugly,
    but they were definitely underwhelming. \r\n"
  created: '2008-05-04 12:19:56'
- author:
    name: claaspb
    picture: 111377
  body: "I just recently heard, that book covers often are designed long before the
    rest of the book is layed out, since the covers are used by the publishers to
    promote their book to bookshops for pre-order. So the idea that cover design and
    layout of the book were done by two different designers who had no idea how the
    respective other part would look, \u2013while not being an excuse for bad design\u2013
    might not be so impossible..."
  created: '2008-05-04 15:59:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "In the old days, designers actually read the books to know what they were
    dealing with.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-05-04 16:02:25'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "&ldquo; E n d l e s s l y   &nbsp; S t i m u l a t i n g.  &nbsp;&rdquo;\r\n\r\nI'm
    not going to judge bestial relations this Sunday morning because I've sinned many
    times in the name of expedient productivity. But the letter spacing between the
    period and the closing quotation mark makes me think the designer doesn't wipe
    after a poo either.\r\n\r\n\r\n(I saw in the preview that **** was censored by
    the system. It's a word for relations between humans and beasts. Admins please
    remove this explanation if censored word is cleared/edited.)"
  created: '2008-05-04 16:41:21'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "My inner curmudgeon asks: Are books these days designed by people who don't
    read? There seems to be an increasing disconnect between making things and actually
    using them. Like Christmas decorations made in China. \r\n\r\nThat cover is truly
    appalling. It seems like object was nothing more than \"find a stock photo with
    blurry music notes with the blurry bit where the title would go\". In a book store,
    I'd pick it up just to see how bad the rest of the book is. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-05-04 17:21:28'
- author:
    name: elizabeth_355
    picture: 112087
  body: And the title page seems to have no relation to either the (depressing) cover
    or the (crowded) interior text. I wonder if three "designers" were involved ...
  created: '2008-05-04 17:40:06'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Most trade publishers have completely separate departments to design the
    cover and the interior of the book. It's one reason I like to design illustrated
    books - I control every aspect of the book's design from typography to head and
    tail bands.\r\n\r\nHere's an illuminating story - I was hired to design the interior
    only of a trade cookbook. I asked to see the cover so I could try to match the
    type. They told me it wasn't necessary for them to match, so I did a sample design
    on my own. Then they came back to me and said yes, why not try to match the cover.
    They sent me the cover design. It was hideous, but I was able to patch together
    something passable using the fonts they'd used (fonts I would never have chosen
    on my own). When I got the final book, they had changed the cover completely.
    The new cover was equally awful and I had done an interior I didn't like to match
    an ugly cover that never got used.\r\n\r\nAs Claas said, the cover is considered
    (in trade publishing) a marketing tool, and subject to much more scrutiny than
    the interior of the book. It is often done way in advance and can change a lot.
    Trade book interiors are basically churned out. That said, there is no excuse
    for bad typography. I just read a book set entirely in Rotis. It was pretty painful.\r\n\r\nI
    prefer the UK version as well - at least it's trying to say something."
  created: '2008-05-04 17:54:11'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I just read a book set entirely in Rotis. It was pretty painful.</cite>\r\n\r\nMy
    boss recently asked me to help him design a 200+ page book set completely in 10/14
    Helvetica Neue overlaid on images. I haven\u2019t been back to the office in a
    while\u2026"
  created: '2008-05-04 18:25:28'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "On the margin, I just watched this 100 minute video on book and book cover
    design featuring Glaser, Kidd, and Eggers...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HpVQRKyD_yM&eurl=http://blog.92y.org/index.php/weblog/item/92y_video_art_of_the_book_with_milton_glaser_chip_kidd_and_dave_eggers/\r\n\r\nI
    agree, the UK's splash kitch version is in contrast to the US's moody broody version.
    But if both designs are so horrid, why then is the book a best seller?  \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-04 19:04:36'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Computers - faster, cheaper and more reliable\r\nMac OS - \"best ever\"\r\nInDesign
    - makes quality typography easy\r\nPhotoshop - missing a glyph palette but apart
    from that rock solid\r\nfonts - more features, more styles, more weights, more
    characters\r\nGraphic design graduates - more than ever\r\n\r\nSo how does this
    square with the falling standards of book typography?\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-04 19:42:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"why then is the book a best seller?\"\r\n\r\nBecause so many books are
    badly designed that nobody pays a hoot of attention to cover design anymore. They
    buy books on what reviewers have said or what their friends have said or what
    Oprah has said.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-05-04 19:45:41'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: One book?
  created: '2008-05-04 21:14:23'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>So how does this square with the falling standards of book typography?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    doesn\u2019t and that\u2019s the part that seems to piss so many people off. I
    think the poor design of mass-market books is particularly glaring because at
    a time when so much effort and money are poured into designing really complicated
    stuff\u2014often just to make it seem simple!\u2014something as simple as books
    is often ignored. Why aren\u2019t the interiors of mass market books treated with
    the same simple, elegant design systems that publishers manage to put into every
    cheap collection of classics, or series of crap video game tie-in sci-fi stories?
    Wouldn\u2019t it cost less?"
  created: '2008-05-04 22:22:01'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I think most people are basically inured to ugliness. Why is so much contemporary
    architecture tasteless and hideous? I'm not talking about Frank Gehry or Zaha
    Hadid, but your basic home, office complex, mall. We have the technology surely
    to make them look halfway decent. Look at warehouses or industrial buildings constructed
    early last century, they have interesting surface detail - you almost never see
    that nowadays. Or take your average chain restaurant - boring furniture and generic
    lighting. And let's not even talk about the menu design. \r\n\r\nI think in general
    people don't really care how things look, and as long as ugly books continue to
    sell the publishers won't care much either."
  created: '2008-05-05 02:26:28'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "David I like your new icon. It's a bit more gussied up now - but in quite
    a pleasant way. It reminds me of a satsuma wrapper. Or a <a href\" http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Furoshiki\">furoshiki</a>.\r\n\r\n<cite>as
    ugly books continue to sell</cite> \r\n\r\nThe thing is publishers will say the
    reason they are ugly is that books don't sell enough so they have to cheap/careless
    to turn a profit etc etc. I am sure you are far more familiar with that line of
    reasoning and the details. When an entity is used to doing something a certain
    way, they will defend doing it that way if they have high or low profits. Either
    can be used as an excuse. Which is what is is. "
  created: '2008-05-05 02:50:37'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "<em>\"The book is a finalist for the Los Angeles Times Book Prizes, and made
    the New York Times Bestseller list\"</em>\r\n\r\nI absolute agree it does not
    look good. The thing is, sometimes some stuff get printed...Probably the author
    did not realized, but saved a few bucks and designed it himself?\r\n\r\nThe cover
    doesn't emphasize the word Music, but the title page does..."
  created: '2008-05-05 03:22:59'
- author:
    name: blackhat
  body: "The New York Times Bestseller List is a horrible litmus test for literary
    merit.  Simply because a lot of people buy a particular book bears little indication
    of it's quality.  Once in a while, truly good literature ends up on the list,
    but usually it's Dan Brown or James Patterson.  That being said, it's little wonder
    why the typography is lackluster, if not terrible.\r\n\r\nThe books on the NY
    Times list are always from major corporate publishers&mdash;Harper-Collins, Houghton-Mifflin,
    etc.  Conversely from Britain, i.e., where for a long while, publishers were regarded
    the standard-bearers of a literary tradition steeped in timeless mastery of the
    written language, US publishers seem to consider themselves not unlike any other
    manufacturer of consumer products.  The care and artistry once put into producing
    books (ironically enough, at a time when the process was far more labour-intensive,
    and required far greater skill) are now but vestiges, on occasion loosely mimicked
    in contemporary design, ultimately mocking the technological advances which, by
    all accounts, should in turn have advanced the craft.\r\n\r\nThis has become the
    norm because the people in decision-making capacities at these publishing houses
    are MBAs, not literati (to say nothing of designers or typographers).  Of concern
    to these people are movie-rights and marketing&mdash;the literary value (much
    less the design quality) of the books is almost negligible.  i'm certain i'm not
    the only one here who's had the awkward experience of trying to convince a client
    to spend an extra hundred bucks or so on a typeface, or a few more hours to lay
    out a book correctly.  i'm convinced that desktop-publishing has caused people
    to consider speed an ample substitute for quality (or that the two are equally
    interchangeable).  Furthermore, nobody in design school ever seemed to care about
    traditional typography...everyone was attracted to the edgy, David Carson stuff.
    \ Don't get me wrong...i delight in breaking the rules as much as anyone&mdash;particularly
    when the project is gagging for it&mdash;but anymore, i notice that when people
    pick up a book that doesn't look like it was printed straight from Microsoft Word,
    they definitely take notice&mdash;usually, they say, \"It looks old!\"  The problem
    with corporate, MBA types is that&mdash;in my experience&mdash;they can't tell
    the difference, even if it was in fact printed directly from Word.  Though i'm
    tempted to digress&mdash;into what large-scale failures in education, or the modern
    propensity to study only the discipline in which one intends to make a living,
    willfully neglecting all other aspects of culture and knowledge, and how these
    relate to the current hideousness of printed &mdash;i'll spare you my further
    waxing philosophical."
  created: '2008-05-05 03:29:02'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: The thing is though, that there are LOTS of beautifully designed books out
    there. Just not this one. But walk into any bookstore, especially in the Fiction
    department and you will see some remarkable designs. (Open the books and it's
    a crap shoot).
  created: '2008-05-05 05:52:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Yes, there are many well-designed books.\r\nBut the issue may be considered
    the Bringhurst Irony: that the main style guide of professional typography does
    not, for various reasons, connect with the major constituency it addresses, ordinary
    books--of which <em>This is Your Brain on Music</em> is assumed to be representative.\r\n\r\nCommodification
    might not be such a bad thing, if it means better templates which default to fonts
    with the features (old style figures and small caps) that are good for book text."
  created: '2008-05-05 09:18:24'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "I agree that this book is terrible in every aspect but its awfulness is completely
    standard. It doesn't matter whether it is Britain, the U.S. or Australia, book
    design is at a terrible low: a combination of economics, trash imitates trash,
    and a disconnect between design and function. With many paperbacks produced by
    simply photo-reducing the hardcover design and printing it on rougher paper, the
    result is often actually unreadable. At least in Nick's example the book can be
    read; certainly that is not always the case. People complain that the young don't
    read enough: we should try to make books that <em>can</em> be read. (Thank God
    for Knopf \u2014 the exception to the rule!)\r\n\r\nThe very same complaints could
    be made about the music industry. The trash-imitates-trash aesthetic rules there
    as well.\r\n\r\nIn the end it's stupid: you sell less, and because you destroy
    the consumer's confidence, <em>everyone</em> sells less in a downward spiral."
  created: '2008-05-05 12:35:42'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I think Patty gives good insight into the failed process. The business model
    of publishing is a bit of a wreck and the books themselves are not even a tertiary
    priority in many cases.\r\n\r\nSo many editors and designers now have no office,
    and the imprints are bought and sold multiple times during the development of
    any given book. It is often the case that managers don't keep up with who is on
    the payroll and what they are doing. People are taken on and off projects to manipulate
    the quarterly stock results in anticipation of another buy out. It is considered
    that simply having \"product\" in the \u201Dpipeline\" is enough on paper to make
    the company appear legit.\r\n\r\nMaybe it is like cars in the '70s\u2014quality
    will hit a low point and then slowly return to some smarter, faster more efficient
    model that doesn't match what was but is better than what is. I would be happy
    if there was some sense that a cover should relate to the interior, and that communication
    between the crafts people making a book was worth fostering."
  created: '2008-05-05 13:50:59'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABI\u2019m curious, other than the legibility of the light, reversed
    type (which is certainly no minor thing when you\u2019re talking about a book
    cover, I agree), is there anything else about the US cover you think is better?\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    was the main thing, as well as relevance. Generic thoug the US stock photo sheet
    music may be, it\u2019s immediately relevant to the title of the book.\r\n\r\nThe
    UK cover doesn\u2019t even have that. It\u2019s got flowers (overused and completely
    irrelevant), pink-red-orange-yellowish splash patterns (look nice, but completely
    irrelevant), and a semi-hard-to-make-out human head (semi-relevant to the \u2018brain\u2019
    part of the title, though not directly so).\r\n\r\nI agree the UK cover gives
    off a much better immediate impression, and it\u2019s much more likely to catch
    someone\u2019s eye sitting on a book shelf (the book, not the eye); but if you
    look at the details, the design says next to nothing about the book, or at least
    its title. Dreary and shoddy though the US cover may be (okay, <em>is</em>), it
    at least gives an immediate link between design and book title, and doesn\u2019t
    have any real design hara-kiris like the small-white-on-bright-orange text of
    the UK cover."
  created: '2008-05-05 14:32:31'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 'In truth, you can blame marketing for ugly book covers - they really can
    be "design by committee" but there is no excuse for poorly typeset book interiors.
    There are people for whom that is a profession (which seems to me incredibly boring)
    and they really should know their trade. '
  created: '2008-05-05 15:22:38'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "Not to sound unduly xenophobic, but it's going to be terrible when in a few
    years' time  there are no stateside book design and comp jobs. And in a <cite>Twilight
    Zone</cite>\u2013esque turn of irony, I won't even be able to  enjoy my unemployment
    because all the books I could be reading are set so poorly. "
  created: '2008-05-05 15:27:02'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<em>There are people for whom that is a profession (which seems to me incredibly
    boring)</em>\r\n\r\nEhhh ... it can be. But so can be branding cows, or whaling
    whales. Or designing graphics.\r\n\r\n<em>and they really should know their trade.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    little pride I've left (after >20 yrs in typesetting) comes from creating nearly
    invisible work -- \"invisible\" in the sense of people not noticing it's \"bad\",
    as opposed to the original example.\r\n\r\nI find myself in the book stores more
    and more rejecting books based on their looks. Next thing, I'll probably scoff'em
    when there aren't any \"Th\" ligatures in them. When it's all so easy!"
  created: '2008-05-05 16:50:32'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>In truth, you can blame marketing for ugly book covers </cite>  \r\n\r\nGRRR
    marketing!!!! What is it with those people?\r\n\r\n<cite>... and they really should
    know their trade</cite>\r\n\r\nB b but, Trades people are so expensive, and no
    one has, as yet, been physically injured by a lousy book design (paper cuts aside)
    , and little or no property damage results from bad typography, so where's the
    incentive to hire someone who knows or cares about the trade? The connection between
    a badly designed book and poor sales hasn't been clearly demonstrated... Or,  maybe
    it has but not in a way that an MBA or marketing professional can understand.\r\n\r\nI
    think it was in the 30's when designers like Raymond Lowry convincingly demonstrated
    that well designed, attractive products sold better than poorly designed, ugly
    ones. Big news in tough economic times, I guess. One would think that this is
    self-evident and having been proven over and over again in the market place, that
    that would be the end of it: (Very easy and self evident) lesson learned; \"Hey!
    Let's not make ugly crap.\"... But, it's not been learned. People don't receive
    much, if any training in design appreciation, aesthetics or what ever you want
    to call it. They don't have the understanding or confidence to comment one way
    or the other about a design. Design is still dismissed as styling and an unnecessary
    frill - which tended to be what industrial design amounted to before designers
    like Lowry. \r\n\r\nSo, here we are in tough economic times. Tougher than most
    for the book publishing industry. Like in the movies, when the going get's tough,
    you can count on folks to do all the wrong things much more vigorously than they
    they would otherwise.\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-05-05 17:35:08'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>I just recently heard, that book covers often are designed long before
    the rest of the book is layed out, since the covers are used by the publishers
    to promote their book to bookshops for pre-order.</em>\r\n\r\nYep, that's true.
    I usually have to design covers long before I even start with the inside of the
    book (or seen any text even).\r\nLuckily I usually get the chance to change the
    design of the cover a little bit, once I have the inside layed out, so that the
    inside and outside of the book match better together."
  created: '2008-05-05 19:05:57'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "I sometimes think we who design things can be hyper-sensitive to design.
    I hope I never don't read a book because it has a lousy jacket design or lousy
    text typography. I read books because I want to know what is in them or to be
    entertained by them, not in order to appreciate or condemn their design. I am
    not a typographer 24/7/365. If I want author X's take on event Y, this is the
    only way I'm going to get it (in printed form).\r\n\r\nBut Nick's questions are
    good ones, and colleagues in the book racket have addressed most of the causes
    of this design dis-connect above; so I need not belabor them. But, as a staff
    design & production manager, I have to admit some complicity in this. At times
    I have to get a book jacket designed for publicity use before the author is even
    finished writing. I may end up sending the jacket design to a designer who is
    not suited to design the text, but I don't know that on that date. & then design
    for the jacket may not have many \"adaptable\" elements a text designer can pick
    up on.\r\n\r\nThis is not an ideal situation, I agree. But I also agree that the
    incidence of damage from bad book design is much lower than from, say, bad can
    opener design. I hope that until I go blind I shall never give up reading, regardless
    of the lousy design work I may have to plow through.\r\n\r\nNow bad printing,
    that really irks me. Bad printing can sabotage a good design. But I doubt I'd
    not read a book that was badly printed, either. Right now I'm reading the Penguin
    paper edition of Coetzee's \"Waiting for the Barbarians.\" Mediocre design, terrible
    printing, but I'm still reading.\r\n\r\nAs to Nick's other comment about \"ordinary
    books\": evidence is that designers of \"ordinary books\" do not read Bringhurst,
    nor Rich Hendel's \"On Book Design.\" Missing ligatures, false smalls, lining
    figs, bad margins: they all attest to this.\r\n\r\nDo not look to any publication's
    list of best books for any hope of finding well-designed books. Only rarely do
    reviewers have any awareness of book design. Even for those who may feel we are
    living in an era when more attention is paid to design, I think it is too much
    to expect book reviewers to chat about design.\r\n\r\nThat's the view from here,
    today. From a guy who has spent 40 years trying to make books look good\u2014and
    at times succeeding, I think.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2008-05-05 19:12:50'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite> I hope I never don\u2019t read a book because it has a lousy jacket
    design or lousy text typography.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, but I have read (or at least
    picked up in the store) books that have really nice jacket designs."
  created: '2008-05-05 20:04:01'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "It looks like Mr Rand had something to say on respect of this design bureaucracy\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.paul-rand.com/thoughts_politics.shtml\" target=\"blank\">The
    politics of design</a>\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2008-05-05 20:52:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The inside layout of <em>Your Brain on Music</em> does look good at first
    glance, in the sense that it is contemporary.\r\nAnd there has been attention
    paid to typographic details--the running heads are set in Helvetica 35, tracked
    out slightly, providing a nice contrast with the main text. The book is well written,
    well edited, and well printed.\r\n\r\nIf the leading had been reduced, and horizontal
    scaling of 95% applied, to increase the bottom and outside margins, for more comfort
    in holding the book during reading, it would perhaps have looked \"old\". So that
    is the penalty we pay, for living in an era when mere functionality appears to
    be behind the times.\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-05 21:26:22'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: ">>>  No, but I have read (or at least picked up in the store) books that
    have really nice jacket designs.\r\n\r\nThen those were successful jackets. They
    accomplished the first goal of a book jacket: to get someone to pick up the book.
    The second goal may be to actually convey some meaningful info about the book,
    by both visuals and text. Those you read accomplished the third goal: to get someone
    to read the book. Actually, maybe the third goal is to get someone to buy the
    book. Getting someone to read the thing may be immaterial.\r\n\r\nOne other thing
    about book jackets and covers, apart from the design of the billboard (I mean
    the front of the jacket). The type for flaps and for the descriptive copy and
    blurbs on the back is often atrocious. These parts of the jackets should be put
    together by typographers, working in cohort with the graphic designers who did
    the fronts. Type on jacket and cover backs is full of false italics, poorly placed
    blurb attributions, and generally poor, unimaginative typography. & there seems
    no attention paid to flap copy. Drop it in, set it FL/RR with no attention to
    the rag, and punch out for the day. The narrow measure of the flap seems to be
    too much of a challenge for many designers.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2008-05-05 22:28:49'
- author:
    name: elizabeth_355
    picture: 112087
  body: I do both book covers and interiors, and I always finish the interior before
    I ever start on the cover. I guess it's just an old habit of mine.
  created: '2008-05-05 23:54:09'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>I do both book covers and interiors, and I always finish the interior
    before I ever start on the cover. I guess it\u2019s just an old habit of mine.</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    is ideal. However, most publishers want to use the cover in his promotional material
    even before the book is finished. I guess you're lucky, then. :)\r\n\r\nI wish
    I could design the cover after the interior as well. I designed the cover for
    the book I'm doing the interior for right now something like 5 weeks ago. Really
    annoying."
  created: '2008-05-06 00:46:58'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 'I usually have to get the cover well under way before the interior, as the
    catalog deadline usually comes up first. The cover can change, but ideally it
    doesn''t. '
  created: '2008-05-06 03:05:19'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "The example is extra-ugly-disfunctional!\r\nHowever, if i compare my impressions
    over 5-10 years in the field of \"mainstream\" fictional literature and not only,
    i think it's getting better (not worse), at least here in germany. Better margins,
    better typefaces in use, better textsetting (by the use of better software)."
  created: '2008-05-06 11:32:59'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: Interesting Poms. Could you post a pic of a typical German work of fiction,
    by any chance?
  created: '2008-05-06 12:02:29'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "When I was creative director at a small publisher, it was not unusual to
    need the cover as much as six months before the interior was set to go to design.
    Hell, sometimes the title wasn't even finalized before we needed tight comps for
    sales conference. (Catalog date was the deadline for finalizing titles, and it
    was not uncommon to have to rework a cover or two the night before.) Manuscript
    wasn't often available, so any brief came from an outline or a marketing blurb.
    I usually had the luxury of sitting down with the editorial director and the acquiring
    editor for an in-depth conversation about the book -- much better than talking
    to marketing alone.\r\n\r\nCovers are always caught in a tug-of-war between Editorial
    and Marketing. It has to be accurate enough to adequately reflect the editorial
    tone and content; it has to be sexy enough to satisfy marketing. These are often
    two competing concerns. Left entirely to Editorial, a book cover would reflect
    and describe the content completely accurately, and be totally boring. Left entirely
    to Marketing, a book cover would be flashy, look like the best-selling competition
    (only different), consist primarily of the current colour-du-jour, be full of
    buzz words, and have very little to do with the topic.\r\n\r\nFor most of our
    titles, it was neither practical nor always the best course to have the same designer
    do both the interior and cover. Different skills and strengths are needed. Navigating
    the ins and outs of feedback from marketing and understanding the marketplace
    and trends for covers is a different skill set from managing complex hierarchies
    of textual structure, illustrations, charts, tables, etc., and responding to editorial
    needs and input. Not a lot of designers can do both equally well. \r\n\r\nI felt
    it was my job to try to keep the outside and inside harmonious through my direction,
    to the extent that I could under the other inevitable constraints and challenges.
    The title page was one place I often stepped in directly to design a transition
    from outside to inside. Also, back cover and flaps were another area where a little
    coordination could help bridge the gap.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-06 14:52:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Kent,\r\nNicely said and informative anecdote! I can even feel your pain
    between the lines!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-05-06 15:06:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">No, but I have read (or at least picked up in the store) books that have
    really nice jacket designs.\r\n\r\nAs a writer, let me put in a word for the value
    of good interior design. Once the title and jacket design or the name of the author
    get you to pick up the book, then you look inside. If this is visually inviting
    and easily readable, you are more likely to sample it extensively. And then, if
    you like the content, buy the book. \r\n\r\nI think it is something like wearing
    flattering, suitable clothes. It isn't going to make an ugly person beautiful,
    but it will help soften the blow, and will make the beautiful person glorious.
    \r\n\r\nHere analogy to 'beauty' is what the writer wrote. Good interior design
    won't make a bad book good, but it will make a good book more inviting to read.
    \r\n\r\nIf the book is a non-fiction one where structuring information is important
    to usability of the book, like a cook book or text book, or--for different reasons--art
    book, then visual presentation actually becomes part of content quality. "
  created: '2008-05-06 15:14:23'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "What [[Jan Tschichold|Tschichold]] had to say:\r\n\r\nThe dust jacket [\u2026]\_is
    not an actual part of the book. Hence, its design must not be mentioned inside
    of the book, just as little as a poster that has been made for the book. Yet,
    it shall be designed to be in line with the book and the cover, regarding style
    and colour. It is a poster and thus should have an effect from afar. From its
    execution, we can read the audience\u2019s level of education, or what opinion
    the publisher has on the consumers of his books. Jackets should be made of a not
    too durable paper, so that they have to go the wastebasket as soon as possible.
    They are to be regarded as packaging and do not belong to book arts, but to advertising.
    \r\n\r\n[Roughly translated from <em>Buchherstellung als kunst</em>, in: <em>Schriften
    1925\u20131974, Vol. 2</em>]"
  created: '2008-05-06 15:56:13'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Florian, that is fabulous. Bring back the days of black leather covers with
    studs and straps!
  created: '2008-05-06 16:15:59'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Reading these posts I find most of you have much more respect for Marketing
    than I. It is probably a symptom of working in college textbook publishing where
    the best sales people were given marketing positions as a reward.
  created: '2008-05-06 16:33:18'
- author:
    name: msilverz
    picture: 109851
  body: I was wondering what the experts here think of the design of the Everyman's
    Library (produced by a division of Random House, I believe). I think that the
    books are beautifully made and designed (and each one includes a blurb at the
    back about the typeface used). It's good to be able to buy the classics in such
    nice editions.
  created: '2008-05-06 16:39:43'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Mark -- I don't know if I would say that I have inordinate \"respect\" for
    Marketing, per se; at least not to the extent that I interpret your comment to
    mean that I think they always make good decisions. \r\n\r\nIt's more the case
    that, at least in the organization I was a part of, Marketing was given a majority
    stake in approving covers. Essentially, they were the client for the design. If
    the marketing director wasn't satisfied, then the publisher wouldn't accept it.
    I could not make unilateral decisions. \r\n\r\nThe argument goes something like
    this: The cover is a critical factor in their ability to make the sales to the
    trade buyers. And since their success is riding on it, they need significant input
    and review. If they can't have some control over the cover, then how can they
    be accountable for sales success or failure. Such is the nature of the business.\r\n\r\nI
    don't mean to pass the buck. My opinion certainly counted for a lot; I couldn't
    have done my job if I didn't have a lot of influence and wasn't able to articulate
    the intent and how the cover served the marketing objectives, etc.. But mine was
    not always the final decision. It was usually a negotiation between myself, the
    publisher, the marketing director, and the editorial director. I represented design
    (and good taste ;-); the editorial director represented the acquiring editor and
    the author; the marketing director represented his team's opinions and the feedback
    from buyers.  \r\n\r\nI worked with a good team and I did have respect for the
    individuals. I think we we were generally in accord. Often I could prevail with
    persuasive arguments and force of my convictions. Sometimes the editorial director
    would veto something that was clearly not going to set the right expectation for
    how the actual book that was shaping up in manuscript. Sometimes the marketing
    director would come back with input from a huge potential buyer. \r\n\r\nI'll
    tell you, if the Barnes & Noble buyer said, \"That's not the final cover, is it?\"
    then you knew it wasn't. ;-)\r\n\r\nThat Tschichold quote is a good one. Dwiggins
    had a similar opinion. Covers and jackets are essentially advertising, not book
    design. Of course, things are a little different now than they were then, in terms
    of how the market works and what book consumers look for. The advent of the paperback
    had a huge impact on that.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-06 18:28:07'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I\u2019ve actually always thought it would be nice to work with marketing
    people that had the budget and real numbers skills required to add helpful information
    to the process. "
  created: '2008-05-06 20:13:10'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Mark, like Kent I can't say I have much (or any) respect for marketing. But
    I had to work with them. As Art Director it was often my job to translate their
    crappy ideas into feedback that actually made sense for the designers AND produced
    decent looking books.\r\n\r\nThe frustrating thing was... I didn't tell them how
    to sell books but they thought they could tell me how to design."
  created: '2008-05-07 06:00:03'
- author:
    name: akma
    picture: 110015
  body: "The classic Penguin paperback covers involved no razzmatazz relative to the
    book\u2019s content, yet I\u2019d be delighted if my books were published in that
    spare, elegant, distinctive style of jacket."
  created: '2008-05-07 12:18:01'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "<cite>...hey thought they could tell me how to design.</cite>\r\n\r\nFor
    some reason designing is like driving, cooking, et al., in that it's an activity
    that most people believe they're better-than-average at. Which is, by definition,
    impossible. "
  created: '2008-05-07 13:28:40'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "@akma: There are a lot of books published in that style, but they\u2019re
    usually books sold to students and serious readers who don\u2019t give a damn
    about the cover one way or another. But those covers probably won\u2019t do a
    lot for sales of books that need to sell themselves to people browsing a bookshop
    for something interesting.\r\n\r\nBut again, I don\u2019t understand why they
    can\u2019t just have good standards for all interiors and leave the wacky stuff
    to the covers!"
  created: '2008-05-07 14:04:49'
- author:
    name: JCSalomon
    picture: 128147
  body: "\u2003Part of the problem is, I\u2019d guess, that default settings in various
    programs are just so\u2026 blah.\u2002Start typing up a book chapter in Word or
    Open\u200BOffice.org: how hard is it to get a decent page spread?\u2002And it\u2019s
    only the most recent version of Word that can deal with OpenType fonts well (or
    so I\u2019m told, though when I used the trial version I couldn\u2019t tell if
    I got real or fake small caps).\u2002Graphic-design professionals have had all
    those tools, but who hires them for the inside of a book?\u2002It\u2019s not as
    if you need to pay for typesetting anymore, right?\r\n\u2003Tools built on Knuth\u2019s
    \u03A4\u03B5\u03C7 exist, but are almost unknown outside the math & computer science
    fields\u2014and besides, I\u2019ve read comments here suggesting that the default
    fonts & layouts are mediocre.\r\n\u2003What\u2019s needed is a set of sensible
    defaults, freely available, for the common uses.\u2002Decent page spreads for
    8\xBD\u2033\xD711\u2033 and 6\u2033\xD79\u2033 and whatever the blazes dimensions
    pocket paperbacks are.\u2002Nothing spectacular&mdash;if someone wants spectacular
    they can hire one of you&mdash;but something usable, a default \"house style\"
    for houses that lack one.\r\n\u2003(Granted, some people will see \"all that wasted
    space\" on the page and try the old &frac14;&Prime; margins, but they'll first
    have seen a print-out of the \"right way\" and might&mdash;just might&mdash;notice
    how it looks better.)\r\n\u2014Joel"
  created: '2008-05-08 04:52:05'
- author:
    name: jb_tubman
    picture: 114559
  body: "The TeX defaults are designed so that mathematicians and computer scientists
    can make not-terrible, unremarkable journal articles and technical books with
    a minimum of fuss, rather like a very basic web page can be made without incredibly
    deep knowledge of HTML. Very nice work can be done with it, but it requires learning
    more about the system than some regular users would like.\r\n\r\nNewer versions
    of TeX allow use of OpenType fonts (I set a parish history book in Garamond Premier
    Pro, for example) but amateurs like me can still make the same bad font choices
    as we could in Word.\r\n\r\nI used to belong to the Folio Society and they seemed
    to care about all aspects of the appearance and production of their books. I just
    went and checked one, and noted that they were careful to describe not only the
    typeface, but the kind of paper used, and the binding, and the cover materials,
    and so forth.\r\n\r\nJim Tubman\r\nCalgary, Alberta, Canada"
  created: '2008-05-08 05:38:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"What\u2019s needed is a set of sensible defaults, freely available, for
    the common uses.\"\r\n\r\nI agree completely, there's just this one 'little' problem
    \u2014 what sensible default? Language, point size, line length, application and
    typeface variables produce a combinatorial explosion of possible 'defaults' that
    make the definition of 'common uses' nearly impossible to corral into a 'common
    user's' defaults.  \r\n\r\nBut I have a plan!\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-08 15:00:51'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "JCSalomon -\r\n\r\nMost publishers won't accept books designed in Word or
    Office - standard is to use Quark or InDesign. Presumably the people versed in
    those softwares have at least a rudimentary sense of design."
  created: '2008-05-08 15:29:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"But I have a plan!\"\r\n\r\nDavid,\r\nWould it be possible to create Opentype
    stylistic sets that would reduce the number of problematic variables and then
    recomend style sheets for page-makeup apps that resolve most other issues?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-05-08 15:44:00'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "I wonder if David's \"plan\" is similar to the plan once hatched by a composition
    house I worked with. They came up with the notion that one could devise a set
    of style sheets for Quark or InDesign that could cover \"all possible needs\"
    for various classes of books.\r\nTheir idea was to reduce the number of faces
    they would have available to clients, and they would attempt to use types that
    were \"fairly enough close\" to one another that they could all use the same style
    sheets. Through coding the books would be styled almost on the fly and compoisition
    time reduced. & would I do this for them.\r\n\r\nHa! I walked away from that as
    quickly as I could.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2008-05-08 23:49:50'
- author:
    name: Typical
    picture: 112513
  body: "Powers example takes the cake. I agree that the problem is the belief by
    people in administrative positions that the compositor has but to \"import the
    word file into InDesign\" and then send it to the printer. Without his large expensive
    machine, the compositor becomes a software \"operator\"; that means the software
    is seen as almost magical and the compositor looks like any other cubicle dweller.
    And the designer is usually in no position to \"educate\" said administrator about
    the complexities of design. (/end intentional exaggeration) \r\n\r\nIn response,
    designers & compositors might offer two choices: the commodified preset template,
    with set dimensions and stylesheets and no tweaking, or a custom design based
    on the content of the book. People love choice and this simultaneously gives them
    that (and the concomitant graduated price scale), as well as an education about
    the work and experience that goes into intelligent book design. Then there are
    questions of design exclusivity, and what to do when the customer says, \"I'll
    take template A, but with Palatino instead of Times.\" ... anyways, my $.02\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-09 09:58:27'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...reduce the number of faces...\" ya! that's me. Do I look like an i phone?
    The president of Adobe? Bill Hill? :)\r\n\r\nThe problem is not the number of
    faces. There are three layers of anti-typographic technology layered on the problem.
    Layer one is the unfortunate one-size-fits all outline, because discrete outlines
    are trying to solve an indiscrete problem. Layer two is formats only allowing
    one numerical relationship of bounds-to-'em\", (per application;)). The third
    layer is the monumentally stupid, so far, after 14 years, OpenType, that must
    be beaten into looking more than a character ahead. \r\n\r\nThe barrier that this
    third layer comes up against is named, for the purposes of this discussion, Greg
    Hitchcock. Greg always asks at this point, \"How long are you willing to wait
    for the typography, of a paragraph?\" My suspicion is, that we are talkin' about
    5 seconds or so, but the answer is never forthcoming, much less 'fifthcoming'.
    If 5 seconds is a long time relative to today's user then maybe they should not
    be composing books, but relative to the amount of time a typographer might work
    over a paragraph, 5 seconds is nothing. \r\n\r\nSo, the question for ya'all, is
    how long are you willing to wait for the idealization, based on the factors we
    all know are important to good book composition, of any paragraph of any book
    type?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-09 12:35:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'David, could you explain further the problems with layer one, the outline
    layer? Are you referring to the lack of optical scaling here, or something other
    stuff? What? '
  created: '2008-05-09 14:30:25'
- author:
    name: JCSalomon
    picture: 128147
  body: "Patricia:\r\n&emsp;As I understand Nick's thesis here, the folks using whatever
    software they have for book publishing are <em>not</em> displaying that \"rudimentary
    sense of design\" you think they ought to.\r\n\u2014Joel"
  created: '2008-05-12 06:12:10'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Concerning the original post:\r\n  I wouldn't use old-style numerals here.
    As these are followed by Hz, the content of the very number it technical. Of course,
    proportional, rather than tabular lining numbers would have been nice (and equally
    a non-breaking space [or preferable thin space] between no's and \"Hz\").\r\n\r\nSi:\r\n<em>Computers
    - faster, cheaper and more reliable\r\nMac OS - \u201Cbest ever\u201D\r\nInDesign
    - makes quality typography easy\r\nPhotoshop - missing a glyph palette but apart
    from that rock solid\r\nfonts - more features, more styles, more weights, more
    characters\r\nGraphic design graduates - more than ever\r\n\r\nSo how does this
    square with the falling standards of book typography?</em>\r\n\r\nVery easy: all
    these contribute to the actual downfall of book typography.\r\ncheap computers
    => everyone can have a computer.\r\nEveryone having a computer can have InDesign
    and <em>feel</em> like a designer, and they do act as such, even though they are
    not.\r\nInDesign <em>makes</em> quality typo easy, but you have to know what good
    typo is, <em>then</em> you can achieve it easily.\r\n\r\nMore than ever graphic
    design students? More => inflation => less paid => less incentive to perform quality
    work.\r\n\r\nAlso, generally, more students means a broader range from very good
    (and very expensive) to very poor (and very cheap).\r\nNowadays publishers can
    hire a very bad designer (and save a lot of money), and still have good conscience
    (I have hired a learn, professional designer, after all, with a diploma and stuff...)\r\n\r\nWhatever."
  created: '2008-05-12 10:21:25'
- author:
    name: akma
    picture: 110015
  body: "<em>What\u2019s needed is a set of sensible defaults, freely available, for
    the common uses.\u2002Decent page spreads for 8\xBD\u2033\xD711\u2033 and 6\u2033\xD79\u2033
    and whatever the blazes dimensions pocket paperbacks are.\u2002Nothing spectacular\u2014if
    someone wants spectacular they can hire one of you\u2014but something usable,
    a default \u201Chouse style\u201D for houses that lack one.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't
    think this would solve the general problem of poor book design, but it would break
    down one of the barriers that make word-processing page design unnecessarily hard.
    Although word processing apps add more and more \"page design\" features, they
    tend to pay little or no attention to making attractive pages of running copy."
  created: '2008-05-12 13:50:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Although word processing apps add more and more \u201Cpage design\u201D
    features, they tend to pay little or no attention to making attractive pages of
    running copy.</cite>\r\n\r\nNor should they. Word processing apps are writing
    tools. It\u2019s not Microsoft\u2019s fault that the world is full of idiots who
    typeset entire books with Word."
  created: '2008-05-12 14:40:59'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "so many good book covers designers out there:\r\n\r\nhttp://covers.fwis.com/\r\n\r\nso...
    why?\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-05-12 15:20:03'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Two very interesting aspects:\r\n\r\nD.B. -- <cite>There are three layers
    of anti-typographic technology layered on the problem. Layer one is the unfortunate
    one-size-fits all outline, because discrete outlines are trying to solve an indiscrete
    problem. Layer two is formats only allowing one numerical relationship of bounds-to-'em',
    (per application;)). The third layer is the monumentally stupid, so far, after
    14 years, OpenType, that must be beaten into looking more than a character ahead.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    agree with #1. \r\nDon't understand #2. \r\nAnd agree with #3, provided my understanding
    is correct. Do you mean: Still trying to make (at least CFF) OTFs compatible with
    oldest PST1 specs? The need to provide cmap tables with more information than
    a simple Unicode-GID mapping, to please OSes and apps that still don't support
    Unicode (de)composition & OT layout features? Depending on the former, the impossibility
    to make really 'smart' fonts that provide base letters + mark feature (that could
    be pretty small fonts again)? Not to mention: All the duplicate and superfluous
    information accumulated in tables, nice for font technology archaeologiest but
    a hassle for type designers? In short, the attempt to achieve backward-compatibility
    whatever it costs, without achieving it anyway?\r\n\r\nakma -- <cite>Although
    word processing apps add more and more \"page design\" features, they tend to
    pay little or no attention to making attractive pages of running copy.</cite>\r\nJ.P.
    -- <cite>Nor should they. Word processing apps are writing tools. It\u2019s not
    Microsoft\u2019s fault that the world is full of idiots who typeset entire books
    with Word.</cite>\r\n\r\nOf course it is. Word is not a word processor but a layout
    application. Word's functions almost force users to <em>design</em> since it offers
    Bold and Italic buttons and paragraph styles that mimick layout applications'
    functionality. A word processor would force users to write texts and structure
    these -- nothing more. (I'd also add images. I think todays' needs tend towards
    organizing data, with bits of texts, images, movies, sound bits. The fundamental
    question is: How do we write? Not: What should the printout look like?) But despite
    we have long entered an information age which keeps certain people busy lecturing
    about, the major companies still haven't recognized that content and presentation
    of content are two distinct pairs of shoes. Which should be reflected in the tools
    they produce. End of rant.&nbsp;&nbsp;:D\r\nTo make sure this doesn't look too
    much like an anti-Word campaign, I should say that I remember a book typeset in
    Word, as nicely set as most InDesign users would do it.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2008-05-12 15:33:16'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "why?\r\n\r\nBecause somebody thought that cover Nick posted WAS good. The
    designer and the publisher obviously liked it or it never would have made it to
    print."
  created: '2008-05-12 15:41:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The problem of the tiny margins in <em>Your Brain on Music</em> is, I suspect,
    caused by reusing the hardcover layout at a smaller size for the paperback edition.\r\nThat
    wouldn't be the designer's responsibility, but as Patty says, someone makes the
    decisions, and it was OKed to trim smaller and not revise the artwork--someone
    who didn't treat Bringhurst 8.5.1 as gospel.\r\n\r\nI sympathize, because my eyes
    glazed over as I started to read his mathematical dissertation on the golden mean,
    and have never read that section of the The Elements. The only reason I am able
    to quote the reference is because I went looking for it to mention in this thread.\r\n\r\n<em>Word
    is not a word processor but a layout application. Word\u2019s functions almost
    force users to design since it offers Bold and Italic buttons and paragraph styles
    that mimick layout applications\u2019 functionality.</em>\r\n\r\nVery true!"
  created: '2008-05-12 21:33:10'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<em>I remember a book typeset in Word, as nicely set as most InDesign users
    would do it.</em>\r\n\r\nA one-off, eh?\r\nThe truth is -- it has been mentioned
    before --, using ID doth not a nice book make.\r\nPeople proudly present us with
    their ghastly homegrown ID docs for printing, sometimes created in beta versions.
    Biggest laugh was when someone gave us his Book document <em>solus</em> on a diskette.
    Oh yeah, he was really impressed by the compression rate."
  created: '2008-05-12 22:50:36'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Don\u2019t understand #2.\"\r\nWell, think about the fact that each typeface
    design has a range of ideal leading for a given size and line length in use for
    a particular language (remembering, that the tallest and lowest glyph, the font's
    vertical bounding box, changes from one language to another). Imagine you have
    this ideal composition, in English, and then, someone says, \"we need to set this
    same text in all caps.\" I know, far-fetched, but what happens is that the entire
    descent in the absence of the l.c., except for perhaps Q and J, is now part of
    the leading, which is no longer ideal. Or think of changing from English to Swedish.\r\n\r\n\"And
    agree with #3[...] Do you mean: Still trying to make (at least CFF) OTFs compatible
    with oldest PST1 specs?\"\r\nThat too... \"Typography\" does not exactly thrive
    on substitution based just on simple adjacency. The first and last characters,
    in documents, stories, paragraphs, lines and words as well as mid-word, like the
    breaks in compound words, hyphenated words and between syllables, all have to
    work together to achieve it. I saw, for example, a MS document touting OT features,
    where every single ct and st combination, in the whole 'story' were....I can't
    bring myself to say it, sorry.\r\n\r\nI'll get back to describe more about #1
    soon. \r\n\r\nCheers\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-13 12:00:49'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The problem of the tiny margins in Your Brain on Music is, I suspect,
    caused by reusing the hardcover layout at a smaller size for the paperback edition.</cite>\r\n\r\nOr
    just someone trying to save paper and thus money. If you think those margins are
    bad, take a look at the margins on British pulp sci-fi!\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026my
    eyes glazed over as I started to read his mathematical dissertation on the golden
    mean, and have never read that section of the The Elements.</cite>\r\n\r\nI often
    find myself wondering about the sanity of phi devotees. But it must be true, because
    if one scours all of Europe there are at least a dozen old buildings and paintings
    that sort of match up to it!"
  created: '2008-05-13 13:38:16'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: There was an article in a mathematical magazine  a few years ago arguing that
    the aesthetic dimension of the golden mean is bollocks. It simply isn't notably
    attractive to us. (It was in the American Mathematical Monthly.)  Of course that
    is not to deny that the Fibonacci sequence and its frequent appearance in nature
    is bollocks too. That is well attested.
  created: '2008-05-13 14:53:20'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Yet some of that \u201Dgod\u2019s geometry\u201D jazz is a bit forced as
    well. Like most magical thinking you can use it if it helps.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-13 15:19:52'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'David, thanks for explaining #2. I am keen to hear more about #1 Did Karsten
    have your thinking in #3?'
  created: '2008-05-13 16:17:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Eluard, could you give us some links on how the golden mean and Fibonacci
    sequence are overrated?
  created: '2008-05-13 18:23:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Levitin notes that while particular pitches trigger response in particular
    areas of the brain, there is as yet no neuro-biological explanation of how pitch
    relations, such as a major third, are perceived.\r\n\r\nVisual perception is nowhere
    near as amenable to scientific analysis as sound, but I would imagine that certain
    proportions are more noticeable and attractive, as in music."
  created: '2008-05-13 23:11:06'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "Certainly William, here is the link (last night when I posted \u2014 it was
    very late \u2014 I blanked on Devlin's name otherwise I would have posted it then.)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.maa.org/devlin/devlin_06_04.html\r\n\r\nThere
    is a follow up article in the same place, that you might also check out.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.maa.org/devlin/devlin_05_07.html\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-14 05:04:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks, Eluard. The last sentences in your above post are misleading, as
    they seem to assert that the the golden ratio and fibonacci series are not important
    in nature. I see from the article that you meant to say that they are indeed important
    in nature. Sentences with double negatives are in general not a good idea, as
    they are confusing!\r\n\r\nIt seems that aesthetic claims are exaggerated. Still
    I personally think they can't be dismissed as total rubbish. I forget where I
    read it, but in the average man the ratio from belly button to floor to overall
    height is near the golden ratio. However in an average woman this ration is farther
    from the golden ratio, as women's legs are on average shorter in relation to the
    torso. This would explain the persistence of high heals, in spite of their extreme
    discomfort. With high heals, the average woman's proportions when standing look
    more elegant, particularly with clothing cinched in at the waist.\r\n\r\nThere
    are better and worse proportions, but what looks good is so influenced by other
    proportions in an object that nobody really has understood mathematically what
    makes some work well in what situations. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-14 16:04:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Rudolf Rudovsky used to ask, How do you expect to have great architecture
    when you wear such terrible clothes?
  created: '2008-05-14 16:51:55'
- author:
    name: akma
    picture: 110015
  body: John, do you have any documentation for that? I'd love to use it elsewhere.
    (PS -- how's SBL Greek coming?)
  created: '2008-05-14 17:02:31'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABSentences with double negatives are in general not a good idea,
    as they are confusing!\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nThere was no double negative in that
    sentence.\r\n\r\nWriting \u2018deny\u2019 when you mean \u2018imply\u2019 doesn\u2019t
    normally aid comprehension much either, though. ;-)"
  created: '2008-05-14 17:29:20'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "WB: <cite>I forget where I read it, but in the average man the ratio from
    belly button to floor to overall height is near the golden ratio.</cite>\r\n\r\n[[Le
    Corbusier]] and his <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modulor\">Modulor</a>?"
  created: '2008-05-14 18:43:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Akma, Rudovsky is quoted in Bringhurst's essay 'The typographic mind'.\r\n\r\n[SBL
    Greek is stalled in the middle of spacing and hinting revisions, and I won't have
    an opportunity to work on it again until later in the summer. Good news is that
    it looks like funding issues might be sorted out.]"
  created: '2008-05-14 22:44:16'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "<em>Thanks, Eluard. The last sentences in your above post are misleading,
    as they seem to assert that the the golden ratio and fibonacci series are not
    important in nature. I see from the article that you meant to say that they are
    indeed important in nature. Sentences with double negatives are in general not
    a good idea, as they are confusing!</em>\r\n\r\nFunny, I have no difficulty at
    all parsing what I said \u2014 but perhaps that is authorial blindness creeping
    in!"
  created: '2008-05-16 05:23:15'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "It was authorial blindness \u2014 I now see the source of the confusion.
    Apologies."
  created: '2008-05-16 05:55:41'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "As a mathematics major, I am wary of many claims surrounding the golden ratio
    and the Fibonacci sequence that pop up all the time in popular mathematical writing
    and indeed in popular culture, as there are too many exaggerated and fantastic
    claims. I've heard mathematicians ridicule the handling of the Fibonacci sequence
    in <em>The Da Vinci Code</em> (I can't comment on it as I haven't read the book,
    but it does strike me how specialists in almost every field from art history to
    astronomy seem to have gripes about how the book got it completely wrong).\r\n\r\nThe
    Fibonacci sequence and the golden ratio are indeed very important and common in
    nature, but they only appear where they have a reason to appear. Too many people
    have tried to find examples of the golden ratio in nature and art without a sense
    of why they arise. And if you're looking for something as simple as an approximately
    1.618:1 ratio, you're going to find it somehow. Oh look, the length of the leaves
    and the stem sections between the leaves have something close to the golden ratio!
    And if you take the height and width of the lowercase k glyph in that typeface,
    it's around 1.6!"
  created: '2008-05-16 14:55:07'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I have a certain design book on my shelf that has an illustration of the
    golden ratio applied to a fish. There is a point where you wonder what percentage
    of any given object might conform, and start to suspect we are pushing it where
    evolution has a much looser hand.\r\n\r\nNow I\u2019ll sound like a real moron
    and venture that often any system of limiting or constraining expression can benefit
    art because it allows the artist to focus on fewer variables, or at least a [[http://www.demel.net/fs-ronchamp.html|system]].\r\n\r\nI
    wonder if Robert Rauschenberg\u2019s idea of not working from ideas would qualify?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-16 15:41:56'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I\u2019ve seen Asian designers asked what they think about Phi a few times.
    On the occasion that the response was more than just rolling of eyes, it was usually
    equivalent to \u201Cnonsense.\u201D\r\n\r\n<cite>And if you take the height and
    width of the lowercase k glyph in that typeface, it\u2019s around 1.6!</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    love it when they use examples that round to 1.6 as proof."
  created: '2008-05-16 16:05:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It would be nice to think that there is very tidy logic in nature or mathematics
    that binds all things together in a predictable way so that we are guaranteed
    both functional and aesthetic perfection if we as designers simply use the golden
    section or Fibonacci series. Scientists have never even worked out the Unified
    Fields theory so why would we assume that all things we do will just be perfect
    if we follow a certain pattern of ratios? That is not to say that there is something
    wrong with pursuing that path as a way of working, it just means that there is
    no guarantee that it is correct and no way to test it accurately. It certainly
    does not mean that that is the only way or even the best way to solve a visual
    problem. We love the romantic notion that the Chambered Nautilus contains the
    secret formula for aesthetic perfection but we can arrive at any sensible visual
    logic if we apply a different ratio consistently. There may well be an Uncertainty
    Principle for visual structure in typography as there was for Hiesenburg in Quantum
    physics. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-05-16 16:19:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Asian designers asked what they think about Phi \r\n\r\nProbably just jealous.
    The Greeks discovered Phi :)\r\n\r\nI wouldn't be too a quick to ridicule the
    idea that numbers are a deep secret to nature and to aesthetics. The Pythagorean
    brotherhood started this idea, observing, among other things that harmonious sounds
    are related to integer ratios on the vibrating string. Half the length gives you
    an octave, one quarter a perfect fifth, etc. Our Western musical scales are influenced
    by these ideas. And then the heirs of the Pythagorean program created much of
    modern science. "
  created: '2008-05-16 17:36:17'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Yes but Slendro, Pelog, and Balafon scales do wonders for cleaning out your
    head when it has become perfectly aligned to the 12-tone deluge.\r\n\r\n[[http://www.amazon.com/Vaughan-Williams-Concertos-Dynamic-Triptych/dp/B000027QW1/ref=sr_1_96?ie=UTF8&s=music&qid=1210956512&sr=1-96|John
    Foulds\u2019 Dynamic Triptycht]] is an interesting example where the orchestra
    creates a continuous descending tone in unison that is so arresting and oddly
    disruptive in that the sound feels like it is pulling you down.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-16 17:53:15'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Half the length gives you an octave, one quarter a perfect fifth,
    etc.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd yet, if I'm not mistaken, an interval based on Phi is not
    harmonious or consonant at all. Go figure ;-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-16 17:58:49'
- author:
    name: Pedro Leal
    picture: 114966
  body: "I had to work on a book publishor in Porto (Portugal) as a part of my design
    graduation, and I really was amazed with how much they didn't care with the books
    they publish.\r\nYes, for them designing a cover is as simple as buying a some
    image on the internet.\r\nAnd the best part of it... guess who had the final word
    on every project, the guys from the marketing department (that didn't even were
    graduated in marketing, they had courses in archeology or something like that).\r\nI'm
    glad it just took 3 months, i was getting really tired of changing my designs
    because some guy in marketing didn't liked that color, image or typeface..."
  created: '2008-05-16 18:58:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Phi is not harmonious \r\n\r\nYes, 'phi' came later. The first recognition
    of 'irrational numbers, such as phi, also came later. \r\n\r\nWhen it was discovered
    that the diagonal of the square was incommensurable with the side it was a refutation
    of the original Pythagorean program, which was based on the idea that everything
    was based on integers. \"Incommensurable\" means that there is no unit such that
    it divides both the side and the diagonal of the square evenly, with no remainder.
    This surprising discovery, also known as the discovery of 'irrational' numbers,
    was one of the greatest discoveries in mathematics. The Pythagoreans allegedly
    thanked person who first proved the incommensurability of the diagonal of the
    square by drowning him in the Aegean sea, and subsequently keeping the incommensurability
    as a 'great secret' of the brotherhood. I guess the secret subsequently got out.
    \r\n\r\nThe Greeks later learned--maybe for the first time in history--how to
    disagree without drowning each other. That was also a great advance in the history
    of humanity. \r\n\r\nPopper tells the story in his book \"Conjectures and Refutations\".
    \  "
  created: '2008-05-16 22:23:45'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The Greeks later learned\u2014maybe for the first time in history\u2014how
    to disagree without drowning each other. That was also a great advance in the
    history of humanity.</cite>\r\n\r\nNow if only someone would teach George Bush\u2026"
  created: '2008-05-16 22:27:47'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: He are DEVO
  created: '2008-05-16 22:54:27'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "William \u2014 I seem to be the sceptic here to your believer. Much of what
    is said about the Pythagorean brotherhood is historical nonsense, and the stories
    told about the discovery of squareroot 2 are later fabrications (some 800 years
    later in many cases) that have no claim to historical veracity. For the scholarly
    accurate story on this have a look at The Mathematics of Plato's Academy, by David
    Fowler. I think it will shock you how little is really known. The earliest attested
    books on Incommensurable magnitudes are by Democritus (all now lost) and he lived
    not long after the probable date of Pythagoras's death. So if the Pythagoreans
    tried to keep it a secret they did a miserable job.\r\n\r\nI perfectly agree with
    you however that the discovery of irrational magnitudes was a watershed moment
    in the intellectual life of Greece. I think it was the defining discovery of Plato's
    mathematical philosophy. The discovery is too little appreciated today.\r\n\r\nBooks
    designed on the trim size of the Golden ration are, I think, badly designed books:
    it is the triumph of theory over aesthetic judgement."
  created: '2008-05-17 02:39:36'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Perhaps it's easy to be so entranced by the role of the golden ratio in the
    proportions of a chambered nautilus shell or sunflower patterns that you elevate
    the golden ratio into an all-around aesthetic ideal. The Pythagorean brotherhood
    made some great discoveries about numbers in nature, but fell into this trap of
    mysticism that rational number proportions contained the key to everything. What
    irony that phi itself is irrational. The Pythagoreans knew about phi as well as
    the diagonal of the square, but had trouble with the notion that they couldn't
    be expressed as proportions of integers because they had built themselves a mental
    prison of picturing the universe to be built up of only integers and proportions
    of integers.\r\n\r\nReturning to the golden ratio in book typography, I think
    it's neat and symbolic, but I doubt that it's necessarily an objectively superior
    ratio to all other ratios in terms of aesthetics. It's difficult to make universal,
    cross-cultural, objective statements about aesthetical standards anyway.\r\n\r\nAs
    long as we're talking about the golden ratio, <a href=\"http://www.stormtype.com/typefaces-fonts-shop/families-35-pentagramme-pentagraf\">Pentagramme</a>
    by Franti\u0161ek \u0160torm is an interesting experiment in faithfully following
    the proportions of a pentagram in typeface design. The golden ratio plays an important
    role in the construction of the pentagram, as each intersection of the edge results
    in a golden ratio."
  created: '2008-05-17 03:02:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Eluard, I'm not a believer in the stories about the Pythagoreans. I just
    read them one place, which I noted, and haven't studied the history, so I defer
    to your knowledge on this. Popper's essay was written in the 50s or early 60s,
    and evidently this 1999 book represents a lot of new work on the history. \r\n\r\nFrom
    what I know Popper's idea that the Pre-Socractics were the origin of the critical
    tradition--culminating in Socrates--does seem sound.  \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2008-05-17 03:29:16'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Now I\u2019ll sound like a real moron and venture that often any system
    of limiting or constraining expression can benefit art because it allows the artist
    to focus on fewer variables, or at least a system.\"\r\n\r\nI think this is a
    good point to be made for children, students, and rats in a maze, but professional
    adults, dealing with a global publishing standard, perhaps not.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-05-17 13:30:38'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I suppose that following my point you might conclude that \u201Cglobal publishing
    standard\u201D is just such a constraint. You can see that Anselm Kiefer makes
    books but isn\u2019t very interested in publishing standards.\r\n\r\nSure I\u2019m
    just playing semantic roulette but every art and craft is defined by the limitations
    that are accepted. The link to Notre Dame du Haut was intended as an illustration
    of the point."
  created: '2008-05-17 17:20:15'
- author:
    name: Kaz Maslanka
    picture: 115001
  body: "I think the aesthetic problem here is that we have a tendency to believe
    all aesthetics is art. There are many kinds of asthetics and this is truly evident
    in this forum. The aesthetic pertaining to the golden ratio is one of mathematics
    and is conceptual even when displayed as visual (geometry) I believe it is not
    an aesthetic of visual art. \r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nKaz Maslanka\r\nhttp://mathematicalpoetry.blogspot.com"
  created: '2008-05-17 19:15:36'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "I was reminded of this earlier post to this discussion when I started reading
    a new book this weekend:\r\n\r\n>>  Everyman\u2019s Library (produced by a division
    of Random House, I believe). I think that the books are beautifully made and designed
    (and each one includes a blurb at the back about the typeface used). <<\r\n\r\nIn
    many ways Everyman's Library does make good books. The slightly flexible boards
    are nice, as is the ribbon bookmark. Nice, smooth, natural paper, albeit with
    some show-through. Nice page size (5\" x 8.125\"). The spine is stamped in two
    colors, but the type is breaing up. Overall, at 824 pages, it is very nice in
    the hand. \r\n\r\nBut it has typographic oddities. The text is set in Bembo (with
    that damned long-tail R). But the frontmatter is set in Baskerville, except for
    the two-color title page and the copyright page, which are set in Monotype Garamond.
    \r\n\r\nThat's a lot of type mixing for a collection of 5 novels. I'm sure it
    gets in no reader's way. It is not something I'd do in such a book, and I'm curious
    about why the mixing. I seem to recall that the Everyman's edition of John Updike's
    Rabbit novels gets the same type treatment. \r\n\r\nFor what it is worth: This
    venerable series, over 100 years old, is now published in the USA by Knopf.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2008-05-19 04:44:54'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: My guess is that it's been updated and revised over the years and carelessly
    by designers who fail to match the font used in previous editions. I doubt that
    a single designer would have used three such similar fonts in one design.
  created: '2008-05-19 05:56:17'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: "FWIW I thought that this\r\n\r\n\"I suppose that following my point you might
    conclude that \u201Cglobal publishing standard\u201D is just such a constraint.
    You can see that Anselm Kiefer makes books but isn\u2019t very interested in publishing
    standards.\r\n\r\nSure I\u2019m just playing semantic roulette but every art and
    craft is defined by the limitations that are accepted. The link to Notre Dame
    du Haut was intended as an illustration of the point.\"\r\n\r\nwas a great point."
  created: '2008-05-19 13:50:50'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Patty:\r\n\r\nThanks for that comment. It spurred me to go to a big box bookstore
    & look at all the Everyman\u2019s Library books I could find: maybe a dozen books;
    the results were interesting. I own only two volumes of the EL current series.
    Both are set in the Bembo/Baskerville/Monotype Garamond combo. When I wrote that
    post above I made the assumption that all other series volumes were so set. Wrong.\r\n\r\nI
    found most texts set in Bembo. I also found Janson, Baskerville, Erhardt, and
    one face I could not ID (hangs head in shame). All frontmatter texts were set
    in Baskerville. There were two different title-page arrangements: one the 2-color
    I mentioned, the other using Mono Garamond in black and screens.\r\n\r\nWhether
    or not these type switches were done \u201Ccarelessly,\u201D as you ask is a good
    question. All volumes credit \u201Ctypography\u201D to Peter B. Willberg, a designer
    of good repute whose name I\u2019ve seen for a long time. The \u201Cbook design,\u201D
    which I think must refer to case, jacket and overall format, are credited to Knopf
    stalwarts Barbara de Wilde and Carol Devine Carson. In the new volume I just bought,
    typesetting is credited also.\r\n\r\nWith top-flight designers such as these,
    I\u2019m thinking the type changes had not been done carelessly. Just why they
    were done is an interesting question. I did not have pencil & paper, so I did
    not track publication dates and type use. I\u2019ll leave that to a design graduate
    student.\r\n\r\nWhen Bembo is used, it is subject to size variations to get the
    volume to a desired page count. The volume of Camus\u2019 collected novels is
    reasonably set. The thin volume of \u201CThe Plague\u201D is set in Bembo way
    too large for decent reading: gotta push out that page count.\r\n\r\npowers\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-21 14:11:41'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I\u2019ve never seen Peter mix type like that. I\u2019ll see if I can get
    a response from him about this. He does use larger-than-you-might-expect type,
    which is interesting to consider."
  created: '2008-05-21 14:50:04'
- author:
    name: msilverz
    picture: 109851
  body: Fascinating. Thanks for your thoughts, Will and Patty!
  created: '2008-06-10 04:46:29'
- author:
    name: robertappleton
  body: "I recently picked up the new Umberto Eco book after seeing him speak in Toronto.
    He was wonderfully witty and made reference to history and contemporary events
    in his own unique stream of consciousness. \r\n\r\nI wanted this book and was
    pleased to find a copy locally. The person in the bookstore knew exactly where
    to find it and as she handed it to me I was already smiling at the use of Bodoni
    on the cover. One hopes for that perfect unison of author and design, which is
    so rare. I opened it tentatively, already aware of my slight disappointment at
    the imperfect use of too many sizes on the cover, and then a very unusual thing
    happened. The quality of the interior blew me away. 10 pt Bodoni Book (a very
    difficult and tiring font to read on extended text) has rarely looked better (with
    so few refinements). Perfect scale and leading (10 on 15 pt) and adequate margins
    (plenty on the outside and more on the inside) create true legibility here, and
    the timelessness and modernity which Bodoni lends perfectly reflect Eco's vision.
    \r\n\r\nFor me this piece of book design (while also imperfect and probably produced
    under typical commercial limitations) is the exact opposite of \"This is your
    Brain on Music\" which I also bought for its content, and which I must agree is
    a design failure of immense proportions.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cover_5333.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/spread_5414.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/detail_4313.jpg]"
  created: '2008-11-02 04:12:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>So how does this square with the falling standards of book typography?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    just revisited this thread and noted Si's question.\r\nHere's an article I wrote
    (in 2002) about the paradox of \"better technology yet worse design\":\r\nhttp://www.shinntype.com/Writing/BottLine.pdf\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-02 21:54:03'
- author:
    name: nithrandur
  body: "I find it hard to study for exams when what I have are handouts photocopied
    from books with great content and terrible typography. It makes me want to type
    the whole thing and fix it.\r\n\r\nIt's saddening that the academe, in a way,
    does not care about typography at all. As long as it gets published, like most
    you guys said. They don't realize that to be able to present one's self clearly
    in writing, one must use language and typography at the same time. Unfortunately,
    it seems language is the only important factor in clarity, for them at least.\r\n\r\nI'm
    actually planning on writing an article about falling typographic standards in
    the school, such as papers (I've seen people who used Comic Sans all the way).
    My professors even recommend long line lengths (small margins) and double-spacing.
    Eugh.\r\n\r\nRight now, I'm reading Terry Pratchett's The Last Hero. The illustrations
    are good, but the type is set in Bodoni (or a relative). It is a pain."
  created: '2008-11-04 01:14:01'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "<em>Visual perception is nowhere near as amenable to scientific analysis
    as sound, but I would imagine that certain proportions are more noticeable and
    attractive, as in music.</em> \u2014Nick\r\n\r\nI believe that is why certain
    systems like the type scale work together in a harmony that text that has been
    ninja-ed in photoshop just doesn't have.\r\n\r\nso I guess a question, apart from
    the Golden Section as a visual interval, what other example of scale harmonies
    have people seen/worked with?"
  created: '2008-11-04 05:18:08'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Just finished reading Kate DiCamillo's <em>Miraculous Journey of Edward Tulane</em>
    (2006) with my daughter. Great story (as always from that author) but really irksome
    typography. Some unbearable lack of kerning, esp. in the all-caps lines that lead
    into each chapter.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/p53_4671.jpg]\r\n\r\nCER
    T AINL Y?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/p133_5764.jpg]\r\n\r\nLook
    at that \"BRYCE\"!\r\n\r\nThis is otherwise a very nicely produced paperback -
    lovely illustrations, nice paper, etc. \r\n\r\nThe colophon says the type is \"CentaurMT.\"
    Is this some strange, misguided attempt to evoke the unkernable days of Monotype
    machines, or did the book designer tragically have a switch off? In a book about
    a rabbit named \"Edward Tulane,\" you're going to have a good number of \"WA\"s
    and \"Tu\"s - why would you neglect kerning?\r\n\r\nAnd the question behind these
    questions is, I suppose: should I be worried that I've reached the point at which
    I get worked up over kerning in a children's book?"
  created: '2008-11-21 18:50:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Looks like it was done in MS Word.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-21 19:00:49'
date: '2008-05-03 17:19:57'
title: The dire state of book typography

---
