---
author:
  name: seventhform
  picture: 114942
body: "Anyone here know the keystroke for the (p) publisher symbol? \r\nIn the past
  I have always \"created\" the symbol, but I know there is a keystroke for it..\r\nsimilar
  to...\r\nalt+0169 is \xA9\r\nalt+ 0153 is T\r\nalt+ 0174 is \xAE\r\netc.,\r\n\r\nWhat
  should have been a quick find has now turned into a 2 day delay...\r\neric\r\n(my
  first post)\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: coach outlet online-spammer
  body: "<P>Before we begin thinking the GHD IV Styler is following the same trend
    as video & DVD players, lets take just show just a few major differences. Firstly,
    the GHD IV Styler has almost nothing realistic competition. The GHD IV styler
    is widely regarded for a consumer and high end (hairdressers) while the number
    1 hair styling tool.Secondly, as techniology developes the money necessary production
    reduces thus retail prices reduce. Well my answer suggestions that GHD haven\u2019t
    handed over, any reduction in production costs with the retailer (salon owners).
    In fact cost prices have gone up resulting from <a href=\"http://www.louisvuittonpursebag.com/\"><strong>louis
    vuitton bags</strong></a>  a surge in the RRP. Here we are at in the event the
    GHD MK1 to <a href=\"http://www.coachfactoryoutleti.org/\"><strong>coach factory
    outlet</strong></a>  Mk3 were discounted one of the a RRP of ??99, the actual
    MK4 GHD styler provides a RRP of ??119.</P><P></P><P>Exactly what continues to
    be lowering the retail prices? The result we have found simple. Online competition,
    with online retailer endeavoring to out do eath other ghd hair straightener for
    being the lowest priced website for GHD IV Styler . I personally, work at a hairdressing
    salon <a href=\"http://www.coachoutletonlinepicke.com/\"><strong>coach outlet
    online</strong></a>  and i know which price range of GHD IV Styler. Despite that
    these web based stores receive massive discounts on there products, they could
    still merely be making between <a href=\"http://www.coachoutletonline-bag.com/\"><strong>coach
    outlet online</strong></a>  ??6-8 a hard and fast and perhaps any loss. I possed
    this with a senior GHD worker from a GHD event in the year. Her response, was
    which she believed, people were with their company as loss leaders to operate
    individuals to there sites. In the hope they retain the prospect for <a href=\"http://www.buyscoachoutletonline.net/\"><strong>coach
    outlet online</strong></a>  future purchases of hair & bath and body goods.I cannot
    really buy into this theory.Lots of individuals will for sure invest in a straightners
    without additional shampoos and styling products. So, i\u2019m not really really
    sure the way this works, in the form of long-term business strategy. The very
    first thing for several though, would be that the consumer might be gaining from
    these reduced prices. </P><P></P><P>In order <a href=\"http://www.coachpurseoutletss.net/\"><strong>cheap
    coach purses</strong></a>  to find out about GHD and locate the ideal price on
    GHD hair straighteners, <a href=\"http://www.cheapcoachbagusas.com/\"><strong>cheap
    coach purses</strong></a>  then visit our website GHD IV Styler Stockists.Stories
    about Britney Spears and her hair disasters are not uncommon, but was damage to
    britney\u2019s hair just before the infamous shaving incident caused buy faulty,
    broken or damaged ghd hair straighteners? Faulty ghd\u2019s usually are not all
    that uncommon and so they can on occasions over-heat and cause terminal damage
    to curly hair. Maybe Britney must have used a ghd repair service, there are a
    couple companies these days which can participate in a ghd repair shop with regard
    to ??19.95 likely the biggest ghd repair company in england and wales is Ion Originals
    Ltd. they run websites that include www.ghdrepair.co.uk It is advisable to get
    those ghd\u2019s inspected they were eradicated or become faulty.Common ghd faults
    include: sparking, buzzing, intermittent power, cable faults & over-heating. </P><P></P>"
  created: '2012-11-30 03:06:10'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "There is no shortcut for this symbol.\r\nYou can use the charmap or the Unicode
    hex input."
  created: '2008-05-08 17:39:38'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "http://tlt.its.psu.edu/suggestions/international/accents/charmap.html\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fileformat.info/tip/microsoft/enter_unicode.htm\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-08 17:48:33'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Capture_4270.JPG]'
  created: '2008-05-08 18:20:04'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I think Font Bureau regularly includes this character in their Postscript
    Type 1 fonts in the \"pi\" character slot (opt-p). But this is an old hack and
    by no means a standard.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-08 22:09:14'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: There is a circled capital "P" in Unicode, but it is for "musical copyright."
    Also not in most fonts (yet another reason not to purchase any fonts that don't
    allow end user modification). I'm at home now without my Unicode book, but if
    this is the character you want, post that, & I'll look it up tomorrow. It is somewhere
    around the 2000 block BTW -- maybe in letter-like symbols?
  created: '2008-05-09 02:11:33'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Also not in most fonts (yet another reason not to purchase any fonts that
    don\u2019t allow end user modification).\r\n\r\nSeems a bit silly - it's not in
    most fonts because most people don't need it - it is in some common system fonts
    and is generic and rare enough not to worry about a font-specific version (in
    most cases). \r\n\r\nIt's U+2117 - as my screen shot (two posts above) shows.
    \r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/unicode/2117/\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2008-05-09 02:21:21'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Seems a bit silly - it\u2019s not in most fonts because most people
    don\u2019t need it</cite>\r\n\r\nNot to be too sarcastic, but we're in a bad situation
    if we depend on the foundry to determine what we (the end user) will need. I suppose
    when we need characters not in a font, we should just set those in Ariel?\r\n\r\nFor
    example, ours is a small shop, but at least once a month, I need characters not
    in most foundry releases. Not sexy things like swash small caps, but regular Latin
    characters with non-European diacriticals -- or even just all the combining diacriticals
    & space modifying characters.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-09 02:56:00'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Hypatia Sans has this character. It will be in all Adobe's more extensive
    Latin-based typefaces in the future, as well.\r\n\r\nBut of course it just isn't
    practical for every single font to have every plausible character. The aforementioned
    Hypatia Sans has >3000 glyphs per font. That's not a reasonable level to expect
    from \"all fonts.\" Not unless you want to see 1/6 as many new fonts being released.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-05-09 03:05:57'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Charles your point is valid - I was commenting that hanging this crusade
    on the case of circle P is silly. '
  created: '2008-05-09 03:09:55'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Not unless you want to see 1/6 as many new fonts being released.</cite>\r\n\r\nNow
    there's a thought.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nBack in 2005, I was on a 4-man team at
    a national competition. Somebody named it \"The good, the bad, and the grumpy\"
    -- never mind there were four of us. The other three were pretty sure who grumpy
    was . . . (& yes, we won).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-09 03:32:24'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: And the small circled p &#9439; is 24DF  http://www.myfonts.com/unicode/24DF/
    (9439 in decimal)
  created: '2008-05-09 03:32:31'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'I include the circle P character in many of my fonts. In older fonts, I put
    it in the Pi slot like Font Bureau, and in newer ones in the proper Unicode slot.
    My reason for including it was that I used to need it when I was designing audiobook
    packaging. '
  created: '2008-05-09 06:17:45'
- author:
    name: seventhform
    picture: 114942
  body: "re: I put it in the Pi slot like Font Bureau\r\n\r\num, what does that mean
    exactly? I cannot believe how difficult this is; I cut and pasted the \u24DF from
    Michel Boyers post-- it worked in Outlook but didn't in IndesignCS3 nor notepad
    where I'm collecting the 35 individual publishing credits! urg. "
  created: '2008-05-09 10:00:31'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: 'Switch to a font that has the sign, and copy&paste should work. '
  created: '2008-05-09 11:50:47'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" - it\u2019s (the p in a circle) not in most fonts because most people
    don\u2019t need it - \"\r\n\r\nLaugh to self. But when one wants to set p in a
    circle, one should not have to wait for it to snow at the equator.\r\n\r\nre:
    I put it in the Pi slot like Font Bureau \u2014 \"um, what does that mean exactly?\"\r\n\r\nIt
    means that we @ FB understand how users work, and so we put the p in a circle,
    a \"must-have\" glyph that is very difficult for a user to make on the fly, in
    the slot of a glyph (math pi) that most people <em> really don't need </em>(because
    even if they do,  it's in the symbol font on every single computer on earth).\r\n\r\nConsidering
    the fact that there are applications out there now that simply will not allow
    the inclusion of un-encoded glyphs in the document, we might be forced, by the
    overwhelming desire to please our users, to keep doing that.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-05-09 12:53:41'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: 'all of the new ClearType fonts have this glyph. '
  created: '2008-05-09 13:23:21'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "<em>Seems a bit silly - it\u2019s not in most fonts because most people don\u2019t
    need it - it is in some common system fonts and is generic and rare enough not
    to worry about a font-specific version (in most cases). </em>\r\n\r\nHow many
    people have used the per-thousands symbol or logical not from any font? I think
    many more people have designed CD packaging that have had to hack their own publish
    symbol than have used many other \"core\" characters. But now that no one buys
    CDs anymore, I suppose is a moot point. \r\n\r\nThe metal foundries sold diacritics
    as generic sorts and did not worry about  font-specific versions. \r\n\r\nWe have
    been putting that character in all P22 fonts for about 10 years (also in the pi
    slot for TT/PS and unicode for OT). "
  created: '2008-05-09 14:15:00'
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: "I've used this font in the past when doing CDs:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.masterstech-home.com/The_Library/FONT_Samples/Font_Indices/Image_Pages/T/TrademarkSymbols.html\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-09 18:27:45'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I stand corrected, this is the single most important overlooked character,
    and I will make sure it's added to every new font my company procures. \r\n\r\n>How
    many people have used the per-thousands symbol or logical not from any font?\r\n\r\nI
    think it's a lot easier to uncover why obscure and silly characters are included
    in character sets and code-pages, than why important characters like (P) are not.
    It's probably related to these char sets being defined by tech, scientific and
    banking communities rather than music publishers.\r\n  "
  created: '2008-05-09 19:27:32'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Duplicate
  created: '2008-05-09 19:28:10'
- author:
    name: seventhform
    picture: 114942
  body: "tried Jonathans suggestion: \r\n(http://www.masterstech-home.com/The_Library/FONT_Samples/Font_Indices/Im...)\r\n\r\nso
    I clicked on the (p)\r\nand..NO (p) in the character map!\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/microsoft/arial/unicode-ms/charmap.html?cpselect=&page=\r\n\r\ntried
    Ralfs suggestion:\r\n\"Switch to a font that has the sign, and copy&paste should
    work.\"\r\n\r\ntried that, nope, all it gave me was a BOX shape...\r\n\r\nso...I
    guess I'm retarded. or the (p)gods are bound and determined that I do not access
    the elsusive (p) symbol (thunder from above)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-09 22:03:43'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "You're probably on a Mac. But if it is a PC, select the font that has the
    character -- Ariel Unicode seems to be about the only one. Make sure the *num
    lock* toggle is on. Hold down the *alt* key, then using the numeric keypad, press
    *plus* & the digits (2117). If an alpha character is needed (as with *24DF* for
    the lower-case circled p), use the regular keyboard for the alphas, but the number
    must be from the keypad. When you've entered the Unicode string, let go of the
    *alt* key.\r\n\r\nThere is probably a similar way on a Mac, but I don't know it.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/circp_4021.gif]"
  created: '2008-05-09 22:36:01'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: On my Mac, the capital (P) 0x2117 &#8471;  can be found in Calibri, Cambria,
    Candara, CMU Bright, Consolas, Constantia, Corbel, DejaVu Sans, Lucida Grande,
    Lucida Sans, MS Gothic Regular, Apple Symbols Regular, MS PGothic, MS PMincho,
    MS Reference Sans Serif.
  created: '2008-05-09 22:45:23'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: 'I''ll confess that I''ve never heard of using the circled p as as symbol
    for "publisher." Since the circled capital P does have meaning (sound recording
    copyright), I wonder if it isn''t the lower-case p Eric''s talking about. Anyway,
    that''s why I suggested Ariel Unicode. As for Bitstream Cyberbit, hasn''t it been
    withdrawn? '
  created: '2008-05-10 00:45:13'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>I\u2019ll confess that I\u2019ve never heard of using the circled p
    as as symbol for \u201Cpublisher.\u201D </cite>\r\n\r\nHere is a grab from http://www.unicode.org/charts/PDF/U2100.pdf
    (unicode chart); they write \"published\" ; they say nothing special for 24DF\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2117_4566.jpg]"
  created: '2008-05-10 01:01:20'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>As for Bitstream Cyberbit, hasn\u2019t it been withdrawn?</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    just downleaded <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyberbit\">TITUS Cyberbit</a>
    and it contains 24DF (CIRCLED LATIN SMALL LETTER P) but not 2117 (nor 24C5). \r\n\r\n[added]
    Here are two related links: http://www.fileformat.info/info/unicode/char/24df/fontsupport.htm
    and http://www.fileformat.info/info/unicode/char/2117/fontsupport.htm."
  created: '2008-05-10 01:31:35'
- author:
    name: seventhform
    picture: 114942
  body: "not to beat this topic to death (though I wish I could, literally..) I switched
    my font to ARIEL UNICODE MS in my new Word document, cut and pasted Michels \u24DF
    and it worked...\r\n\r\nprior to that I tried Charles_e suggestion (the Ariel
    Unicode alt+2117 shortcut) but it just gave me a capitol \"E\" (??)\r\nso I still
    don't know how to access the \u24DF ouside of this cut-and-paste method.\r\n\r\nSo,
    it worked (kinda.) and I THANK YOU all for your insight. \r\neric\r\n\r\n*PC user,
    BTW. XP, Indesign CS3 and Office 2000 professional Edition"
  created: '2008-05-10 19:27:38'
- author:
    name: seventhform
    picture: 114942
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/circlePinsky_3982.jpg]'
  created: '2008-05-10 19:35:23'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite> I still don\u2019t know how to access the \u24DF ouside of this cut-and-paste
    method.</cite>\r\n\r\nAccording to http://www.fileformat.info/info/unicode/char/24df/index.htm
    you type Alt +24DF but they also say (if you follow the link giving the shortcut
    which gets you <a href=\"http://www.fileformat.info/tip/microsoft/enter_unicode.htm\"
    target=\"_blank\">here</a>) that you need to have your numeric keypad set to hexadecimal
    (HKEY_Current_User/Control Panel/Input Method, set EnableHexNumpad to \"1\").
    Since your examples above (copyright etc) are in decimal, I would try  Alt +9439
    (because the number that writes 24DF in hexadecimal notation is nothing but the
    decimal integer 9439).\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-11 04:32:20'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "When I look more carefully at their input methods, I start having doubts
    about Alt +9439. Their universal method when the keypad is set to hexa is\r\n\r\n(1)
    Press and hold down the Alt key. \r\n(2) Press the + (plus) key on the numeric
    keypad.\r\n(3) Type the hexidecimal unicode value.\r\n(4) Release the Alt key.\r\n\r\nand
    the codes you used above simply  correspond to another input method."
  created: '2008-05-11 05:24:08'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Michel . . . just about. As I said in my post:\r\n\r\n(1) num lock must be
    \"on\"\r\n\r\nand\r\n\r\n(2) A-F are typed from the regular keyboard; it is just
    the digits that must be entered via the keypad."
  created: '2008-05-11 13:08:46'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I think it\u2019s a lot easier to uncover why obscure and silly characters
    are included in character sets and code-pages, than why important characters like
    (P) are not.\"\r\n\r\nIt's only one reason for both situations, isn't it now.\r\n\r\n\"I
    will make sure it\u2019s added to every new font my company procures.\"\r\n\r\nThat's
    overreacting. Your market needs a serif and sans available from a system utility
    like Apple's Type Palette, Letterlike Symbols. Is there something like this in
    XP?  With only 1% of your market moving by choice to Vista (default CT), I don't
    think it's helping just to put them in CT fonts.\r\n\r\nCheers."
  created: '2008-05-11 16:38:37'
- author:
    name: seventhform
    picture: 114942
  body: "another annoying issue:\r\n\r\n\u24DF\xA9\r\n\r\nlook inconsistent? these
    are BOTH set at 10pt ARIAL UNICODE MS and the character spacing is uneven!\r\nhaven't
    imported this into CS3 yet, but this is what occurs when setting the type in Word.\r\n\r\nThis
    looks particularly bad when: \u24DF&\xA9 or \u24DF+\xA9\r\nand...\r\n\u24DFsixth
    form music/BMI \xA9projekt records\r\n\r\nbumping up the pt in the \xA9 doesn't
    help either..."
  created: '2008-05-11 22:40:06'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Well, you can probably fool around with the size & position in InDesign to
    get them close, but I think the core of your problem is your insistence on using
    the lower-case p. The lower-case circled-p (Unicode 24DF) come from a different
    set, namely, circled alpha characters. There may a circled capital C in that set
    (U+24__); you could look for it. But the Sound Recording copyright symbol has
    always been the circled capital P -- Unicode 2117. Now if that is sized differently
    than the copyright symbol (circled capital C), you'd have a legitimate complaint.
  created: '2008-05-11 23:37:03'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...these are BOTH set at 10pt ARIAL UNICODE MS and the character spacing
    is uneven!\"\r\n\r\nAre those serif designs in a sans, or is that my ke-warts
    rendering acting up?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-05-12 20:20:34'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>another annoying issue:</cite>\r\n\r\nAs Charles says, if you want
    satisfaction, you most probably need to use the character 0x2117 and moreover,
    if you want everything to be nicely aligned, you need both the copyright and 0x2117
    \ to be taken from the same font (and  also from the font with the + and/or the
    &). Here are two examples (a grab in Microsoft Word 2008 for Mac).\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/elusivecirclep_4802.jpg]\r\n\r\nIn
    my opinion, if you don't have a font containing a glyph for 0x2117,  the easiest
    thing to do is either to buy one or to choose a font whose EULA allows you to
    modify it and add to it the glyph for 0x2117. \r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2008-05-12 23:48:56'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Correction: <code>s/Hypathia/Hypatia/</code> \r\nor better <code>s/Hypathia/Hypatia
    Sans Pro/</code>"
  created: '2008-05-13 03:50:07'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "To tackle the comment \"I still don\u2019t know how to access the \u24DF
    ouside of this cut-and-paste method.\": In more recent versions of Word, you can
    get a character by typing its 4-digit Unicode, er, code and then hitting Alt+X
    immediately after; so in this case I type 2117 and then hit Alt+X. I'd left the
    font at the default TNR. Word switched to MS Mincho and dropped in the character.
    Setting the font to Trebuchet and trying the same thing resulted in Word switching
    to MS Gothic and dropping in the correct character. Dunno if this helps. \r\n\r\n______________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2008-05-13 15:49:52'
- author:
    name: pixelfarmer
  body: "aia if this is redundant. I found this info elsewhere when stumped by the
    problem under discussion.\r\n\r\nMac Menu Bar > Flag near clock > Show Character
    Palette (can be enabled in System Preferences)\r\n\r\nIn the palette there is
    a search field at the bottom. Type in unicode - 2117\r\n\r\nIn the Collections
    area: select \"Containing selected character\" - it returns all the active fonts
    in your system containing the glyph.\r\n\r\nhth"
  created: '2009-06-03 05:37:00'
- author:
    name: jonc
  body: "Hi all. Just to chime in on the end of this thread, I made a dedicated circle-p
    font ages ago, containing the symbol in a variety of styles.   It's $5 buy-Jon-a-drink-ware...
    \  You may grab it from....http://www.artisan.pwp.blueyonder.co.uk/studio/pfont.html
    \ \r\nJon"
  created: '2010-08-23 02:08:00'
date: '2008-05-08 17:33:50'
title: the elusive circle (p) symbol!

---
