---
author:
  name: evilfansanfran
body: "It seems like Cooper Union is best for fine arts in many ways, and Parsons
  is up there for fashion.\r\n\r\nBut what is the best school for Graphic Design?
  \ Parsons?  SVA?  "
comments:
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Why incur all that debt for a graphic design education. Buy a computer, get
    some software and study like hell on your own. You'd probably end up ahead of
    the game in the long run. Do you really want to invest in $200,000.00 in an education
    that will prepare you to do classified ads on some Long Island newspaper for $12
    per hour?
  created: '2008-05-10 22:37:31'
- author:
    name: evilfansanfran
  body: Whoa.   Bitter.
  created: '2008-05-10 22:49:02'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: James, are you going to hire all the uneducated wannabe designers with nothing
    more than a Mac and a bunch of back issues of <em>Computer Arts Projects</em>?
  created: '2008-05-11 00:25:19'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I'm not gonna hire anyone. I'm a one person operation and will always be
    a one person shop.\r\n\r\nI just think one should think long and hard about plucking
    down their hard earned cash for an \"education\" in graphic design. That's all.
    \r\n\r\nAnd if you can come up with a killer portfolio without all the nonsense
    you go through in \"higher education\" good for you. There are certainly many
    more resources that the average person can take advantage of now, then when I
    was learning this stuff. And I learned this stuff on the job, cranking out work
    in a type shop with a studio manager screaming at me and all the other bull pen
    jockeys all day long. I came into the business knowing a lot about print production,
    showed an ok portfolio, lied to get the job, put my head down, made myself useful
    and learned all I could. I sort of look at it as \"lower education\". That was
    after my university and graduate school days. But I got an education at school,
    not vocational training. And believe me I know the difference since I have my
    B. A and my M.Ed. in Vocational Education.\r\n\r\nWhich leads me to another point
    that most designers who teach at design schools are terrible teachers, since they
    have never been trained to be teachers. But that is another thread on another
    day..."
  created: '2008-05-11 00:52:14'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Evilfansanfran,\r\n\r\n I'm not bitter at all. I have nothing to be bitter
    about. I have a great job and a great life. I'm just offering an opinion that
    you can take or leave. No sweat off my arse."
  created: '2008-05-11 00:57:16'
- author:
    name: nmerriam
    picture: 109650
  body: "I'd say SVA is the most commercial, in the sense that it is very career-oriented
    as opposed to theoretical (which makes sense, since it started as a trade school
    after WW2), and most of the instructors there are not professional teachers, they're
    professional designers who happen to teach a class or two a week (which James
    seems to think is a bad thing, but I couldn't disagree more). Every school in
    NYC has working artists teaching, though, it's just a matter of proportion and
    finding the faculty that you fit with best. In any other city you'd have to worry
    more about professional teachers with no real experience.\r\n\r\nThere's such
    a volume of talented artists there who enjoy teaching that you can find a good
    mentor at any school. And ultimately that's what it boils down to, and what you
    can never learn with practice or books or the web -- making connections, with
    both faculty and students. The best thing that can happen to you is that you have
    an instructor you get along with, you mentor with them and get help lining up
    those first few critical jobs.\r\n\r\nYou can also easily spend a ton of money
    and get nothing out of it -- the standards are pretty low at most schools, and
    you can easily go through four years and not improve or put any effort in. Successfully
    navigating through an art school is much, much more difficult than getting through
    a typical bachelor's program. You very much get out of it what you put into it."
  created: '2008-05-11 01:56:27'
- author:
    name: JCSalomon
    picture: 128147
  body: "&emsp;Well Cooper's free, so no $200,000 debt.&ensp;Don't myself know about
    what the School of Art has to offer (I'm in Engineering), but there are Typophiles
    who there.&ensp;I'll see if I get get someone to comment.\r\n\u2014Joel"
  created: '2008-05-11 05:55:49'
- author:
    name: JABZOOG
    picture: 111689
  body: "Hello, \r\nI currently attend Cooper Union. I'm finishing up my sophomore
    year (3 days left!)\r\nWe don't have declared majors, and you can only take a
    certain amount of credits each year in a certain field. Freshman year is foundation,
    sophomore you can take .. 6 credits per semester in graphic design junior year
    you can take 9 per semester, and senior year is unlimited). I don't know much
    about other schools' graphic design programs, and have only had so much experience
    here with design because I'm in my sophomore year. That said, I have already encountered
    some really great professors.. and some not-so-great. That'll occur anywhere,
    though, of course. \r\n\r\nProfessors I have had have been very supportive and
    excited to help me. I can't really comment on how commercially-geared the courses
    are. It really varies from professor to professor.\r\n\r\nThere seems.. at least
    in my year.. to be not a high interest in design here. I've heard the school goes
    through phases. For instance, there was a time when it was \"uncool\" to concentrate
    in painting. That may be the case with design now; who knows. A lot of my classes
    have people for whom graphic design is not a passion; they simply signed up for
    the class to fulfill a curiosity about graphic design. This, to me, is both a
    positive and negative thing in terms of class critiques.. \r\n\r\nMy best advice
    would be to look at the websites of whatever schools you're interested in. Most
    have online galleries of student work.. and some even have faculty work. \r\n\r\nSorry
    this is such a poorly structured/written reply. My keyboard is messed up and I'm
    tired. Anyway, I'd be happy to answer any questions you may have! \r\n\r\nJohanna"
  created: '2008-05-11 06:45:45'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>For instance, there was a time when it was \u201Cuncool\u201D to concentrate
    in painting.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf you spend your life worrying about things like that
    you'll never achieve anything.\r\n\r\nAre you looking for undergrad or graduate
    education? If the former I'd say don't focus too early - my best advice is to
    attend a liberal arts school with a strong art/graphic department and keep your
    options open until you are sure you want to be a designer. Your undergraduate
    education is the last real chance you get to explore like that, why go to trade
    school? If graduate school I'd say work a few years first, try to get an internship
    or entry level job at a design studio (picking up whatever small freelance projects
    you can along the way) and see where that gets you before you go into debt on
    a graduate program that has dubious career benefits. \r\n\r\nMeanwhile from what
    I understand your best best are probably SVA or Pratt. I have not heard great
    things about the student quality at Parsons - it seems the students there are
    trying to get good grades and not pushing themselves creatively. A friend of mine
    taught there and he got frustrated with the lack of curiosity and initiative among
    the students."
  created: '2008-05-11 17:48:48'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "There's something to be said both for dropping $200,000 on an education,
    and for getting a BFA from the streets. A nice compromise would be to grab your
    degree at a less expensive place, such as a CUNY or SUNY school (I recommend SUNY
    Purchase as the IKEA to my alma mater's Crate & Barrel). I really don't think
    there's as much of a qualitative difference between institutions as there is between
    students. \r\n\r\nSeriously. Go cheaper. It's the best of both worlds. "
  created: '2008-05-12 17:32:09'
- author:
    name: mauphie
    picture: 110791
  body: "I second Pattyfab's comments....\r\n\r\nDon't count out liberal arts schools.
    A good liberal arts school will teach you how to think critically, be curious
    and write well. All are needed skills for a graphic designer. I count my BA at
    a liberal arts school as important as my AAS in graphic design. I found the art
    school experience a bit too much of an insular, hot house environment. I missed
    meeting people from other studies, like science, history, math and political science.
    They showed me different perspectives of the world.\r\n\r\nAnd I would also heartily
    (bitterly?) second Pattyfab's other comment about Parsons.\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-12 17:35:08'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I entered college an art major and graduated with a degree in art. However,
    the best classes I took were not necessarily art classes. I studied Philosophy,
    Astronomy, Dance, Psych, Dostoevsky, Evolution, the Atom Bomb (this was still
    the cold war) and the Old Testament among other subjects. I actually regret that
    I was so focused on art, art history and film - I could have broadened myself
    even further while I had the chance. My school had an amazing music department
    and I'm very sorry I didn't take advantage beyond going to a few gamelan concerts.
    There is plenty of time to focus after you graduate. Any future employer who would
    penalize you for not having a graphics degree from Cooper Union or SVA is probably
    not someone you want to work for anyway. One of best art directors I ever worked
    for had a literature degree from Skidmore.\r\n\r\nFor fashion, don't forget FIT."
  created: '2008-05-12 18:36:07'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I have not heard great things about the student quality at Parsons
    - it seems the students there are trying to get good grades and not pushing themselves
    creatively.</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve known some Parsons students, and it seems
    like one huge problem there is the mandatory 6-class workload, which can really
    crush some people and pressure them into just getting stuff done."
  created: '2008-05-12 19:45:18'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: (Trying hard not to cause offense with this comment) my friend said a lot
    of his students at Parsons were Asian women, and they just did not talk in class.
    It may be something cultural. He felt like he couldn't tell if they were interested
    or not since they didn't contribute, just did the assignments.
  created: '2008-05-12 20:17:09'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I found that problem with design students in general, regardless of gender
    of national origin. I\u2019ve had plenty of classes in which the instructor either
    made everyone speak for a timed period, or simply did all of the critiques himself.
    And being the only person willing to say anything during a crit, I\u2019m also
    the guy everyone can\u2019t stand, because the last thing anyone wants to be told
    is that they just tossed a free grunge font over a cheap stock photo at 4am and
    used a diagonal baseline to try and pass the whole thing off as frenetic."
  created: '2008-05-12 20:23:30'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: I had a friend who studied Fashion Design at FIT. She paid a fraction of the
    tuition of Parsons, and most of her instructors taught at Parsons as well. In
    this world of designer-as-part-time instructor, getting to know who the part-time
    faculty are in the various schools around town, could save you a bunch on tuition.
  created: '2008-05-12 21:27:14'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I had this issue with students when teaching design, and if they do not talk
    in class I make sure they talk to me, because if one doesn't get over isolation
    in a design class, one doesn't get a grade, from me. This is different from teaching
    art, I think. I also think this is a teaching issue, and not indicative of a single
    program's worthiness for GD teaching. And lastly, I think that going to design
    school or not, is an individual thing. James de Terminator is right, everyone
    can state their opinion, but I wonder if his is even the advice he'll have for
    his own young. In addition, on the same topic, once someone has appealed for advice
    after making the decision to, why not lighten up!? :)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-05-12 22:17:46'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I have no young, David, so I guess I'm free to offer good or bad advice.
    Or both at the same time!\r\n\r\nOne year older, but not deeper in debt!\r\n\r\nPrego."
  created: '2008-05-12 23:18:13'
- author:
    name: funhaus5
  body: "The best school anywhere for graphic design, or any other subject, is in
    one's skull. And only there.\r\n\r\nAside from the networking and resume advantages,
    schools offer no real advantages to folks who can generate the good ideas that
    are the core of our practice. Ultimately, craft and execution can be picked up
    anywhere, or delegated to those who can do them best. It's the ideas that matter
    and that ability can't really be taught. Practiced, yes. But frankly, some people
    are just good at coming up with ideas for visual communication and some aren't.
    A pricey school won't make you the former.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I didn't go to a
    brand school so I am biased against dropping a ton of money on a label. Just as
    going to Harvard Business School doesn't make you a genius entrepreneur (see:
    Bush, George ), so too going to any well-known NYC design institution doesn't
    necessarily make you anything more than another pixel pusher with a heavy debt
    load. At the end of it -- do you have any ideas worth communicating? That's what
    I want to know. Everything else can be taught and picked up. [Have you been to
    the \"graphic design\" section of book stores these days?]  Including, yes, nazi-ish
    kerning. \r\n\r\nIf I had gone to a name school, it would have been an easier
    path for me -- I'm a senior designer at a major publisher here in New York --
    but then I wouldn't have worked my butt off on a crazy project that ultimately
    landed me this job. Not the most linear way to go about a career but then, life
    is more interesting than straight lines. It's the work and ideas that ultimately
    matter, not the pedigree. Frankly, when I'm interviewing, I don't care where you're
    from. Could care less. Have some interesting ideas? That's what I want to see.
    \r\n\r\nIt is worth noting that many, many people don't have jobs in anything
    remotely related to what they went to college for. Myself included -- I have a
    degree in journalism (which is what I settled on after I stopped doing electrical
    engineering).  So, I would say don't break the bank on a piece of paper -- it's
    the stuff in your head that really counts in this world. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-13 17:08:55'
- author:
    name: BaileyDwyer
    picture: 114349
  body: "I just finished up my sophomore year at SVA for graphic design. Sophomores
    are required to take seven classes (Basic Typography, Basic Graphic Design, Computers
    in the Studio, Drawing, Visual Literacy, History of Graphic Design and one Humanitiy
    class each semester)\r\n\r\nThe workload is huge, and sometimes feels unbearable,
    but I feel as though I got a LOT out of the classes I was required to take this
    year. SVA, like many other art schools, give you back what you put into it. Some
    students coast while others work their asses off.\r\n\r\nThe teachers at SVA are
    all working in the field they teach, so they are up-to-date with everything going
    on in the design world and they are also great for making connections and networking.\r\n\r\nI
    have not really had any bad experiences with my teachers at SVA, and I would recommend
    SVA to anyone searching for a great graphic design school."
  created: '2008-05-13 19:58:12'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "There are many good schools in New York City for Graphic Arts - it depends
    on which field you want to apply yourself in. I would have expected your question
    to raise a rivalry between the schools - instead I am very surprised at the type
    of answers you are receiving.\r\n\r\nFirstly, college gives you a few more years
    to grow up and mature in. For some students, this is all they are looking for,
    as they are too young to enter the marketplace.\r\n\r\nFor some, it's to acquire
    new skills or open their minds to new ideas. For some it means learning there
    is more to art than Madonna and Child. For others it means there is more to life
    than what transpired in their small home town. College/University can give you
    a chance to solve problems - to really think your thoughts through. So many think
    they can do that, surprise is on them. Well, that is -- if you are fortunate to
    have a true intellectual as a professor --  just takes one - so you don't have
    to worry about all the professors and student instructors that you may have to
    sit through. You can learn - yes, even in a fox hole -- you can learn.\r\n\r\nI
    don't know which schools you have looked into or which areas you may want to concentrate
    on. School of Visual Arts was always progressive (and from the readings above,
    I don't think that has changed, fortunately!). Pratt turns out excellent students,
    so does Cooper Union and the Fashion Institute. Also, not mentioned above are
    a few technical colleges around the city -- some of which specialize in the trades
    - such as printing. These too are graphic art schools, just maybe not what the
    above crowd is speaking of. \r\n\r\nIf you are in High School right now -- try
    to speak to 1) your art teacher and 2) your guidance counselor. Narrow down what
    field you might want to select, your art teacher should be a great help for that
    as well as steer you towards the right place. Make appointments to meet the admission
    staff of each of the schools you are interested in. Get the school tours -- see
    for yourself where you'd feel comfortable.\r\n\r\nGraphic Design artists have
    come from all walks. Yes several went to RISD or SCAD or SVA, etc. some just had
    the opportunity of training with art directors (whose credentials could make your
    head spin) in bullpens throughout the publishing and advertising worlds.\r\n\r\nGood
    luck - it's your future, I hope you decide wisely."
  created: '2008-05-13 20:16:56'
- author:
    name: kowchow
    picture: 112683
  body: "I attended Pratt for two years. Do not even get me started!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nv\r\n\r\nps.
    jabzoog. do these four letters mean anything to you- r h m b?\r\nhaha\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-13 22:33:16'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>they\u2019re professional designers who happen to teach a class or
    two a week (which James seems to think is a bad thing, but I couldn\u2019t disagree
    more). </cite>\r\n\r\nI don't think this is by itself a bad thing. I just wanted
    to make the point that teaching is a skill unto itself. Just because someone is
    a great designer does not mean they are a great teacher."
  created: '2008-05-14 00:03:24'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "I got a four-year degree from an art school. Not a terribly well-known one,
    but I think everyone I graduated with in design is working in the industry in
    some capacity. That said, a lot of them are buried in debt, and might be working
    on the same level as someone with a 2-year AA who spent $4000 for their whole
    education. Or they might be working alongside someone who got an MFA from an expensive
    east coast school and is $100,000 in debt, and is making the same amount as them.\r\n\r\nWhat
    I think an expensive art school gives you is contacts: think of it as the George
    W. Bush model of success. The importance of knowing the right people in design
    can't be overstated. With some design schools pushing 40K/yr. now, a lot of design
    schools are going to need to start coming up with real statistics about the ROI
    you'll get for buying one of their expensive degrees, though."
  created: '2008-05-14 00:09:51'
- author:
    name: clashmore
    picture: 114206
  body: Get yourself a liberal arts education. Don't pigeonhole yourself. It's important
    to be well-rounded.
  created: '2008-05-14 00:22:04'
- author:
    name: hoolia_d
    picture: 112385
  body: "In two days, I will be graduating from SVA. I took a handful of humanities
    classes at FIT every summer (once enrolled you're allowed a total of 9 credits
    from another school) and every teacher I met at FIT was \"retired\" from SVA,
    in that they were no longer practicing professionals, but still in love with teaching,
    so they went to teach at FIT. I went to SVA directly from high school, thinking
    that deciding on design early on was a good thing. In retrospect, I think even
    a year at a liberal arts school may have paid off for me. I just didn't want to
    dilly dally for two years until I had to declare a major, I wanted to go in head
    first. That is not to say that the humanities department is lacking, we have amazing
    teachers which for some reason are usually ignored, because people choose the
    easy classes so they can focus on their studio classes, I chose the hard ones
    because I didn't want to waste my tuition money on a journal class (a mixture
    of writing in your dairy and show and tell).\r\n\r\nFly over here, tour the schools,
    see which facilities you can picture yourself working in for hours and days on
    end. I know SVA's computer labs were ridiculously packed this year, forcing me
    to work at home where I'm more likely to randomly get up and bake some zucchini
    bread instead of focusing. \r\n\r\nIt's too late for me to regret the amount of
    money spent on tuition, and I won't know if it was REALLY worth it for awhile.
    All I do know is that every single freelance job I've had in the last three years
    I have in some way met the person at or through SVA.\r\n\r\nFeel free to ask me
    anything!\r\n "
  created: '2008-05-14 13:22:59'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Get yourself a liberal arts education. Don\u2019t pigeonhole yourself.
    It\u2019s important to be well-rounded.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell-rounded liberal arts
    educations are a wank. It\u2019s just like high-school except that instead of
    learning lots of irrelevant factoids and taking an exam, one learns lots of irrelevant
    factoids and writes a term paper before taking an exam. There\u2019s plenty of
    room for lit and philosophy in a good design program; but design offers the advantage
    of not wasting one\u2019s time on phys ed. and fetal pig dissection labs.\r\n\r\nSomewhere
    or other I recently heard some business types pointing out that in today\u2019s
    global economy smart educated people have become a dime a dozen. Real value is
    now in creative minds, and the men and women adept at thinking of new solutions
    to new problems will be the next generation of business leaders."
  created: '2008-05-14 13:36:55'
- author:
    name: pgariepy
    picture: 110327
  body: "Just to get it straight, Cooper Union is free for New York residents only.
    \r\n\r\nAs an design educator at Buffalo State College, in Buffalo, NY, students
    will get out of their education what they put into it. My best students (and I
    would hold them up to any Parsons, Cooper Union, etc. student) are those who are
    have a driving curiosity to learn and experience design from many different perspectives.
    They are the students that go the extra mile to research techniques, paper, methods
    of execution, etc. that cannot be touched upon in the classroom. Why, because
    as educators we are trying to balance the need for technical instruction and design
    asthetics. In addition, you have a classroom of adult learners who are on all
    different levels and that takes lots of individual attention. \r\n\r\nMy advice
    is take tours of schools that interest you and talk to the students not administrators
    or even teachers. Have the department put you in touch with an alumni that can
    relate to you their after college experience. You will find out much more about
    an institution than any brochure or website can provide. "
  created: '2008-05-14 14:12:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Design schools are not an injection mould where students are quick-formed
    into designers. There is plenty of work to be done by those with open minds and
    questioning spirits. If you want to learn, you will, if not stay home.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-05-14 14:31:16'
- author:
    name: Chardin
  body: 'The best way to learn design skills is in a vocational school taught by professionals.
    The best way to get an appropiate education for a designer to put it all in contest
    is in  culture & communication courses at university. I would say that hoolia_d
    has the right idea. That being said, pgariepy and dezcom make the best point;
    you get out of it what you put in. '
  created: '2008-05-14 15:20:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Well-rounded liberal arts educations are a wank. It\u2019s just like high-school
    except that instead of learning lots of irrelevant factoids and taking an exam,
    one learns lots of irrelevant factoids and writes a term paper before taking an
    exam.\r\n\r\nJames, I think you are off the mark here. If the liberal arts education
    is good, it doesn't just give factoids. It teaches you critical thinking and gives
    you a framework and understanding to analyze problems in many fields. \r\n\r\nI
    have noticed on Typophile that in the field of type design many of the best designers
    have wide ranging knowledge and interests, and have something to say of interest
    in many subject areas. How much they are self-taught and what role formal education
    played I can't say, but their discussions do reflect a liberal education. "
  created: '2008-05-14 16:17:45'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>Somewhere or other I recently heard some business types pointing out
    that in today\u2019s global economy smart educated people have become a dime a
    dozen. Real value is now in creative minds, and the men and women adept at thinking
    of new solutions to new problems will be the next generation of business leaders.</cite>\r\n\r\nBusiness
    Week ran a story last year touting that the MFA is the new MBA. (another excuse
    for designer graduates to put off the hard work of making a living) \r\n\r\nI
    went to a seminar on the subject, sponsored by the magazine, and while several
    of the speakers were entertaining, it was still the standard \"Business Speak\"
    with a few design terms thrown in. The one almost everyone was enthralled with
    was \"Innovation\". Innovate here, Innovate there. Team Innovation, Facilitating
    Innovation. Fostering Innovation, Rewarding Innovation.\r\n\r\nIt all reminded
    me of a advertising design director who commented on some test words that I sent
    him for a new font proposal for his latest campaign.\r\n\r\n\"I like it\", he
    said. \"But I was hoping for something more optimistic.\"\r\n\r\n\"Optimistic,\"
    I asked. \r\n\r\n\"Yes you know, like forward leaning.\"\r\n\r\n\"An Italic?\"\r\n\r\n\"Yes
    like and Italic, or maybe we could put some lines in to connote speed. What I'm
    saying to all the people working on this campaign, is that the solution should
    be musical, so why don't you do another round and this time listen to some good
    music while you are drawing the test word.\""
  created: '2008-05-14 16:44:30'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Wow James, you are awfully cranky lately! Final exams? Spring allergies?
    From whence stems your pronouncements on liberal arts educations - aren't you
    in design school?\r\n\r\nAny education necessarily depends on the quality of the
    teaching and the initiative of the student. A motivated student can get a great
    education at a crappy school, a lame student can graduate from Yale (c.f. George
    W) with a degree in partying his ass off. Another factor is the general quality
    of the student body. My university had a reputation for having a great art department.
    By and large that wasn't exactly true but it attracted very talented students
    and the dialogue was really interesting. \r\n\r\nThe debate on whether to get
    a design degree will no doubt rage on here at Typophile, but it is probably useful
    for an aspiring designer to learn what path other successful designers have taken
    and what they thought of their education. "
  created: '2008-05-14 16:54:44'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "terminaldesign, I think you should send that one to http://adverbatims.blogspot.com/\r\n\r\nFrom
    the designers I've seen who get what you might call a \"liberal arts design degree\"
    (something like 2/3 liberal arts classes and 1/3 design), typically labeled as
    a BA, they don't exit with much of anything -- they need more time to develop
    their design skills & thinking, and they've taken a bunch of 100 level courses
    in anything and everything. I think getting a BFA (usually 2/3 art/design classes
    and 1/3 liberal arts) is much more successful at preparing you to be a professional
    designer, just because there's so much that has to be crammed into four years.
    \r\n\r\nThat said, I don't think everyone majoring in design is necessarily looking
    to work as a designer. It can be just another form of majoring in Spanish or International
    Studies -- something you're interested in when you're 20, and a stop along your
    path to getting a real estate license. I don't find anything wrong with this.
    Design is a great tool for self-discovery.\r\n\r\nI find it hard to believe designers
    will ever be business leaders, just because there's a certain type of person who's
    typically attracted to design, and they're not the Donald Trumps of the world.
    There's a certain type of person attracted to teaching, and a certain type attracted
    to the military, and they develop their own sort of culture, with rules and codes
    and self-imposed limitations. If design schools want to break free from this,
    they need to start requiring more business and marketing classes for their undergraduates."
  created: '2008-05-14 17:08:23'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "<cite>in today\u2019s global economy smart educated people have become a
    dime a dozen.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's because people have redefined \"educated\"
    to the point of meaninglessness. Plenty of people are smart, but very few are
    adequately educated, especially in the United States. This is in part because
    large sectors of American society have become so narrow-minded and anti-intellectual
    that people actually think that learning things that aren't related to a specific
    trade is \"wank\". "
  created: '2008-05-14 17:46:31'
- author:
    name: clashmore
    picture: 114206
  body: "A wank? Really?\r\n\r\nI'd suggest getting your BA (or BFA), dabbling in
    other areas of academia that appeal to you, and designing as much as possible
    outside of the classroom. \r\n\r\nIt works for me."
  created: '2008-05-14 20:53:24'
- author:
    name: aaronpinero
    picture: 114911
  body: "I just finished at Pratt. I almost certainly spent more money than was probably
    necessary, but the experience, IMHO, was totally worth it. It is true that you
    can gain a wealth of skill \"on the job\", as has been suggested. I've been working
    as a interactive design swiss army knife for the last 10 years, and I was way
    ahead of the curve compared to many of the students. But for all that on the job
    learning, there was still something I was lacking, and that's why I went back
    to school after so many years.\r\n\r\nAside from the contacts, which may ultimately
    be as valuable as my school debt, design education is about the problem solving
    process \u2013 about how to think about and create design. Anyone can operate
    a microscope, but it takes some learning to master microbiology. Poor analogy,
    maybe. But being able to stop traffic with Illustrator skill does not make you
    a good designer. Learning the process, learning how to address a design problem
    and apply my acquired skill (and practicing this process over and over) was very
    helpful to me. I also got work on the kind of projects that are rare in my day
    job, which was nice.\r\n\r\nIf I could offer 2 suggestions, they would be:\r\n\r\n(1)
    Check out FIT. I've heard lots of good things about it.\r\n\r\n(2) You will get
    out of it what you put into it. You have to believe that it's worth it and work
    to get your money's worth from the experience."
  created: '2008-05-14 21:02:51'
- author:
    name: JCSalomon
    picture: 128147
  body: "Peter:\r\n\u2003A bit of correction:\u2002Cooper Union is free to any resident
    of the U.S.A.\u2002It\u2019s just that non-locals will have to find housing, which
    isn\u2019t cheap anywhere in N.Y.C.\r\n\u2014Joel"
  created: '2008-05-14 22:29:27'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "My dislike for educations that lean toward broadness is that I know a hell
    of a lot of people who went to school, learned a lot of little bits about this
    and that, and forgot it all, myself included. We have our entire lives to do that\u2014at
    least those of us who actually try to learn things and don\u2019t just get off
    work and watch TV. But for many people, those undergraduate years are the only
    time in their lives that they\u2019ll have to put aside the distractions and really
    focus on something. That\u2019s a great opportunity, and it would be a shame to
    miss it just for four years of dabbling about in a liberal arts program.\r\n\r\nMy
    design program was not a liberal arts program; it was a very focused design program.
    And it was great to be in a school where almost everyone wanted to be there, and
    really cared about the subject at hand. The first time I went to school I was
    focusing on a much broader program (liberal arts with a focus on anthropology),
    and about half the people in every class were only taking it because it was a
    required elective for whatever they were doing. That meant we got a lot of dumbed
    down curriculum, tedious discussions, and is why I dropped out to focus on work
    until my mid-twenties. \r\n\r\nA broad education may be a great thing for people
    who just don\u2019t know where they want to go. But for someone like me, it\u2019s
    like having teeth pulled. When I was in high school I never even knew what a design
    school was. If my asshole teachers and advisors had stopped their demagoguery
    about broad-mindedness for the ten minutes it would have taken to discuss art
    schools with the kid who was nearly failing classes for sitting around drawing
    custom letters all day I\u2019d be ten years into a design career, instead of
    having to figure it all out myself at twenty nine."
  created: '2008-05-14 23:57:07'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "You were expecting a high school Guidance Counselor to actually offer you
    some useful advice on a career path?\r\n\r\n\"Hey, kid, I don't know what you
    expect me to do for you, if you can't get at least 1590 on your SATs what do you
    think I am a magician\"? \"Have you thought much about community college?\" \"I
    hear they have a good food service program, and they are hiring at the IHOP.\"\r\n\r\nI
    think we have all been disappointed by that group."
  created: '2008-05-15 02:48:32'
- author:
    name: BrooklynRob
    picture: 110975
  body: "Since evilfans (the original poster) is asking about NYC, here is a possible
    course of action:\r\nGet a 2-year undergraduate / liberal arts degree somewhere
    else, then move to NY and take all the continuing education design classes you
    can at SVA. Most of them are taught by the same instructors, follow similar curriculae,
    but cost a small fraction of actually being enrolled for a degree. I'm surprised
    more people don't do this, it seems like a great deal. You could work at the same
    time and go at your own pace (none of this 6-classes-at-a-time nonsense.)\r\n\r\nHaving
    said that, I will sort of disagree with myself with the following: I think the
    above posters who are minimizing the value of a design degree are probably right
    in regard to designers who are going to work on their own from the beginning.
    But IMO, to get a job, you need a degree. To get a good job, you need a degree
    from a good school. There's just too much competition.\r\n\r\nI graduated from
    Pratt a few years ago and the students in my program were almost all employed
    in design jobs before school even ended. Plus, if you love design, you'll love
    design school. It's a great way to spend a few years. I'll be paying off my loans
    for years, but I have a job I love going to every day -- it's a fair trade.  "
  created: '2008-05-16 19:34:09'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "Well, I don't know what it would cost you as an international student to
    study in Canada, but  as a canadian I payed 3,500 per year, and the program I
    took is 3 years long.  It covers typography, design history, art history, drawing,
    life drawing, design illustration, layout, branding, colour theory & perception,
    motion graphics, as well as tutorial classes for every piece of software we use.\r\n\r\nIt's
    worth a shot, but some of the other people here have nailed it almost dead on.
    \ Education helps you lay out a framework for personal study, but design education
    doesn't make you anywhere near ready for design.  I'm going to say 70+% of design
    is learned outside of a classroom, and while I don't advocate forgoing education
    altogether, I don't depend on education alone to prepare me.\r\n\r\nIf it's your
    passion; if you truly live and breathe design, you can thrive in any environment."
  created: '2008-05-18 05:05:41'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "<strong>terminaldesign</strong> <em>You were expecting a high school Guidance
    Counselor to actually offer you some useful advice on a career path?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    am sorry you didn't have a good guidance counselor. Come to think of it, I couldn't
    find one in my NYHS - we had 7,000 kids going through -- and not many teachers...
    but... in today's schools I am amazed at the guidance counselors - and not only
    do some give good advice, some actual have \"connections.\" I've learned that
    in NY they just don't slap a label on a whatever as a guidance counselor, there
    is now a curriculum they must get through - with a certificate and all at the
    end of it! Hopefully that can help some that may not have had the opportunity
    for help before. (College was a different story - amazing, the advice a College
    Guidance Counselor was allowed to give out - women, did you know you were there
    to find your spouse? I didn't.)\r\n\r\naaronpinero  and innovati  -- I just want
    to say to both of you -- very well said!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-18 11:26:47'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "JackieT,\r\n\r\nI come from a family of Guidance Counselors, Teachers, Principals
    and School Administrators. My first job out of college was that of a public school
    teacher. I think GCs do a wonderful job in the early middle school grades, and
    may be even of some help in guiding students to more traditional fields, but anyone
    who falls out of the standard mold, like having an interest in design, will receive
    very little help.\r\n\r\nBut then modern secondary education, at least in America,
    was designed to prepare rural farm kids to work in factories. It is completely
    ill equipped  to offer any preparation to a student entering the modern global
    economy. American drop out rates and high school graduation rates point to its
    failure.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2008-05-18 12:24:10'
date: '2008-05-10 22:22:19'
title: Best School for Graphic Design in New York?

---
