---
author:
  name: dontbelievethetype
body: "Hi Everybody,\r\nI'm doing a project on pirate typography. I'm looking at type
  that has been copied or altered slightly by someone then re-distributed under a
  different name such as:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.urbanfonts.com/fonts/Weezer.htm\r\n\r\nWhen
  this is just a rip off. \r\nI was wondering if anyone else knew of any other pirate
  typefaces.\r\n\r\nCheers \r\nRob"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: '"Fake" isn''t a well defined term - you might want to consider the definitions
    here... http://www.emigre.com/Editorial.php?sect=2 '
  created: '2008-05-16 23:15:17'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I initiated a battle with the illustrious Alexandra \"B****\" from Russia
    who has renamed Pouty, FontBureau, and copyrighted Bolero. Her and her partner
    Anatoly sh**head. Available on Fonts101.com for anyone who wants it free (you
    better not). The ass's site, Jagdesh, is in Pakistan and we cannot touch him.
    260+ viewings and 140+ downloads. Let's see that is 1400$ I will never see!  It
    seems nobody even gives a rat's butt over there and it it too small potatoes over
    here (but not to me). I believe I heard we only go after the big boys from somebody.
    And then there was Pooper Black that was ripped by a major office supply company
    who settled and I got squat from. Etc. etc.\r\n\r\nSo maybe I am not the best
    person to reply to this. Merry Christmas and have a wonderful weekend!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-05-17 00:23:57'
- author:
    name: dontbelievethetype
  body: Thanks for your help Michael.
  created: '2008-05-17 00:27:40'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Rob\r\n\r\nSee if you can find a copy of the PRINT magazine that has the
    article by HZ... No one will ever steal my apples again (or something like that).\r\n\r\nMichael\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-17 00:32:20'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Yves Peters, fellow moderator here, gave a talk on this exact topic at ATypI
    in Helsinki. \r\n\r\nI'd also suggest reading John Downer's article, <a href=\"http://www.emigre.com/Editorial.php?sect=2&id=1\">\"Call
    it what it is\"</a>. \r\n\r\nDerivative is a better way to put it."
  created: '2008-05-17 00:37:57'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Sorry Miss T for the bad language but this stuff really bothers me. When
    he said \"under a different name\" I immediately got my hackles up... let's call
    it what it is, theft (at least in my case). That is not derivative. I say make
    the pirates walk the plank! \r\n\r\nArrrrrggggg!\r\n\r\nOne eye open and the other
    watching. Tee hee!"
  created: '2008-05-17 01:02:06'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>Arrrrrggggg!</cite>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/piratical_r_5026.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-17 01:27:26'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I knew I should've added that I was talking to Rob, not you Michael. You,
    and all the others who've had their work stolen, deserve to be upset.\r\n\r\nIf
    it is an unauthorized derivative it is stealing. I didn't mean to paint a pretty
    picture by suggesting a more politically correct term for it. Academically speaking
    Rob should use the term derivative work as it describes what is being done. That's
    also why I suggested John's article."
  created: '2008-05-17 01:55:19'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Miss T\r\nNo problem mate. Went and cooked some shrimp on the barbie. Looked
    at the skewer and thought... hmmm, sure would like to... well you get my drift.
    They will get theirs.\r\n\r\nI only hope that one day I will see a logo here queried
    for font ID (but I don't do sans) and I can respond that the font is not available,
    it is proprietary and I ain't gonna give it up. I now have over 11 analog fonts
    that I use in my own work and I will be damned if I am going to give them up for
    some value lacking, immoral font pirate. I need to get a beer and a blood pressure
    pill!!!!!!!!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-05-17 02:30:40'
- author:
    name: Manlio Napoli
    picture: 111362
  body: 'Another example of "derivative" work: http://www.typophile.com/node/43240'
  created: '2008-05-17 08:38:00'
- author:
    name: Lars Oppermann
  body: 'I recently stumbled over <a href="http://www.dafont.com/riven.font">this
    Perperua ripp-off</a>. The R and V glyphs are mutilated so some might call it
    a derivative. If you look into the TTF file, It still has Monotype''s copyright-notice
    (mentioning Perpetua) in it. '
  created: '2008-05-17 10:51:43'
- author:
    name: Stephen Rapp
    picture: 111901
  body: "I work for a greeting card company where we have a lot of proprietary fonts.
    I've had to pursue issues with our fonts showing up all over. The usual thing
    is just where a freelancer has walked out with a disk full of fonts and they just
    get passed around. \r\n\r\nThe one case that really bugged me was a very well
    respected type designer had several of her own versions of our fonts that she
    had scanned off of cards apparently. The font was identical except for a few odd
    characters. On her website she had elaborate descriptions of how she got inspired
    to come up with the idea and even had a link on her site for typeright. After
    a few unanswered emails, one of my team members ( who's work she had copied) contacted
    MyFonts who promptly removed the 2 in question. Then they showed up on Fonts.com
    whom we contacted  and were again removed. Since then I haven't seen them around.
    She copied a friends work from a book and is profiting well from that. All this
    and she's still a popular designer.  "
  created: '2008-05-17 13:24:27'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Ask your older professors and local libraries if they have any old metal
    or phototype specimen books by smaller type vendors or typesetting firms. Some
    of these books are infested with pirated designs resold under a new name. It was
    so common for vendors to pirate Zapf\u2019s designs that at one point he nearly
    left the industry entirely."
  created: '2008-05-17 16:13:37'
- author:
    name: Robert Trogman
    picture: 111573
  body: URW++ is the worst offender. In the old days CorelDraw used to change the
    name to keep from paying royalties. Zapf says that Palatino has at least 23 suedonyms.
  created: '2008-05-17 22:09:38'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "And sinces somebody brought up CorelDraw, don\u2019t forget to look up Bitstream.
    <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/38526\">This thread has a partial list</a>,
    there are much longer ones out there.\r\n\r\nAlthough I have to admit, in Bitstream\u2019s
    case I often prefer the Bitstream versions to the official foundry versions. Too
    bad most of the serif fonts lack old-style figures."
  created: '2008-05-17 23:20:10'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "I am going to place this link again.\r\nhttp://www.emigre.com/Editorial.php?sect=2\r\n\r\nOne
    thing I have seen a lot on this regard and one exemple is Times. Let's speculate:
    Timez, Thimes, Tymes, Timhes, Tines. Tenpos, Thenpos, Thempos, Temphos, Tempum,
    Tiempos, Thiempos, Thiemps, Tiemps... and so on. It can be interminable the obtainable
    list.\r\n\r\nI have a question, and it regards to the study of old metal type.
    What if, that's my case, someone wants to digitize metal type from proofs of the
    very type, but without optimizing or interpreting it; trying to reproduce it defects,
    even the kerning problems, like in \"We\", where the W has it's space, causing
    the extra white between both letters. There is no minus kern, the only way to
    kern is to add space between characters.\r\nThis idea comes from a problem: metal
    type is gone, so, the only way to have it back to letterpress is by 'reviving'
    it. (After reading the essay now I am not sure if 'revival' make sense).\r\nDoes
    that make any sense? Would anybody shine some light here, please?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-17 23:45:27'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Bitstream has long since worked through those issues. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-18 08:36:07'
- author:
    name: Club-21
  body: "\"Metal type has gone\"\r\n\r\nIt's still alive and breathing where I live."
  created: '2008-05-18 16:42:12'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "Yes. Bitstream. Actually I love Stymie. They added (I think) a Bold with
    Condensed and Extra Bold to the family, and Piranesi Italic, and Devinne, and
    Della Robia, &c. That is cool stuff and I already have it. I went thru some old
    specimens I have and I <a href=\"http://www.photoblog.com/storage001/2008/05/18/\">picked
    this</a> to show. It is Pynson Oldstyle Italic and is found on the American Line
    Type Book, ATF (1907). It happen that I don't remember ever seeing this anywhere,
    maybe a similar one. The contours of this face actually waves and appears to not
    have a straight line contour in any character, which makes it suitable to work
    with.\r\n\r\nWell, the type is not dead per se, it just may be locked somewhere,
    unused, forgotten in a dark storage, or the printer who has it don't know where
    it is; or  in the bottom of a lake, or covered by asbestos (as James said) and
    no one dare to approach it. One thing is certain: some types are really gone,
    melted to make new or become soldiers or fishing artifacts.\r\nIt is reasonable
    to think that some is indeed dead. Question is, resuscitating some of them for
    personal or commercial use can bring trouble to your door? Even if the intention
    is to brink some back as ludic exercise. As for naming one could call it like...
    \"House Font N.o 2\", or simply \"N.o 2\" (as House is already existent), but
    not hiding its origin, mentioning where it comes from, who have cut it first time,
    the designer name (when possible, as it appears to me that some type just had
    a denomination as being from ATF or BB&S or Central Type Foundry, &c.\r\n\r\nWhat
    I have learned so far, most of it here following peoples links and opinions (not
    to mention English language too...)  is that if the creator is dead before 1925
    and there is no 'recut' done between 1985 and 1990, one can just 'recut' it and
    maybe, maybe, call it by its real name (after extensive research on it making
    sure of not hurting any sensibilities...) ?\r\n\r\nTo make it sort of different,
    one can use a character set old fashioned <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/1668\">California
    Job Case</a>, as to keep it in a letterpress perspective. Only letterpress people
    would appreciate it, as it is not Eastern European nor Unicode OT, don't have
    diacritics and can and will be called \"useless\".\r\n\r\nDoes it make more sense
    now?"
  created: '2008-05-19 12:44:52'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Robert Trogman wrote:\r\n<cite>URW++ is the worst offender.</cite>\r\n\r\nMike
    Yanega <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/2320#comment-18650\">wrote in an
    older thread</a>:\r\n\r\n<cite>My understanding of many of the URW fonts was that
    when they had one of the few (along with Bitstream) places where foundries could
    get typefaces digitized (with their tool Ikarus), they made a deal that they could
    sell every font they digitized as long as they changes the name (hence all the
    Latin-sounding names for familiar-looking fonts). \r\nSo Bitstream and URW truly
    do not belong in the bucket with other 'cloners'.</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\nSo, is URW(++)
    really an \u2018offender\u2019?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nRobert also wrote:\r\n<cite>In
    the old days CorelDraw used to change the name to keep from paying royalties.</cite>\r\n\r\nAdam
    Twardoch has explained the Bitstream/Corel story <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/3003#comment-23904\">in
    another old thread</a>:\r\n\r\n<cite>[\u2026] in the 1980s, Linotype was [\u2026]
    not interested in making digital fonts for the slowly emerging DTP market. A group
    of type designers including Matthew Carter left Linotype and started Bitstream,
    which was to become the first digital type foundry in the world. They digitized
    original Linotype typefaces, but Linotype refused to license the original trademarks
    to them. So they used names derived from their own classification (Humanist 777
    being Frutiger, Swiss 721 being Helvetica, etc.). Bitstream licensed the names
    from some other foundries, so some of the fonts used original names (e.g. Futura),
    but those copied from Linotype, Monotype and Berthold designs usually did not.
    However, these still were very faithful and high-quality digitizations, not cheap
    knock-offs like many many other companies offered them. [\u2026]</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>[In
    2003], Linotype and Bitstream signed an agreement which finally ended their dispute
    over the designs. Linotype officially \"licensed\" the designs to Bitstream (but
    not the trademarks). This means, that prior to that, Swiss 721 was an unlicensed
    clone of Helvetica, and now it's a licensed version of Helvetica, but sold under
    a different name. [\u2026] This is handy to know as this sort of confirms that
    the Bitstream versions really are derived from the same original sources.</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\nLater
    in this thread, others who (I believe) do know the ropes of digital type history,
    like John Hudson and Gerald Giampa, elaborate on this.\r\n\r\nThus, Corel neither
    did change the names (Bitstream did that) nor did they avoid paying royalties.
    They were just lucky to sign a deal with Bitstream \u2013 which was very advantageous
    for the CorelDraw users and quite disastrous for the font industry."
  created: '2008-05-19 14:15:10'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "As I recall Corel shipped a different set of fonts prior to bundling the
    Bitstream fonts with Corel 4(?) maybe that's a source of confusion. \r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si"
  created: '2008-05-19 15:09:24'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "I should think the font that Rob originally linked to should also be a trademark
    issue with Weezer, after whom the pirate font is named. Futura was used in their
    [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weezer_%281994_album%29|logotype]] (if it can be
    called that), at least for as long as I was paying attention to what the once-mighty
    Weez was up to.  \r\n\r\n=w="
  created: '2008-05-19 19:15:25'
- author:
    name: dontbelievethetype
  body: "I think its century gothic, well that's the typeface that the person has
    copied. \r\n\r\nI've found quite a few others that are rip offs such as \r\n\r\nOptimus
    Princeps - Trajan\r\nYellow Submarine - Amelia\r\nProtestant - Helvetica\r\n\r\nThe
    one that gets me is Trumania it must be a complete knock off of \r\nGill Sans
    Ultra Bold and in the information about it it says \r\n\r\n\"Trumania EEN was
    created in December, 2000 by Aesthetix Graphic Design exclusively for Famous Fonts
    (www.eliteentertainment.net/famousfonts). It is based on the typeface used on
    the title of the Jim Carey film \"The Truman Show\". As far as we could tell,
    a freeware version of this font was not available, so we made one. This is NOT
    a pirated or renamed font. True, it may look just like another or several other
    fonts out there (and may even have the same character set), but it is an original.\"\r\n\r\nBut
    surely if it looks like and is almost exact to the original then it must be classed
    as pirate.\r\n\r\nI've also looked at type that has just been altered compared
    to the originals. \r\nWhether it be distressed , or just changed to an outline
    instead of filled. \r\nfonts like Keeno Katana, Arialic Hollow.\r\n\r\nAgain just
    rip offs of fonts we all know.  \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-19 20:36:26'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Have you had the chance to read John Downer''s article yet? '
  created: '2008-05-19 20:53:17'
- author:
    name: dontbelievethetype
  body: "yeah i've just read it. So Yellow submarine, Optimus Princeps & Protestant
    would be classed as Cat. 1 Knockoffs/Clones/counterfeits \r\nwhere as the other
    distressed ones are Cat 2. Extensions/spin offs.\r\n\r\nBut something like Trumania,
    where they have said there wasn't a freeware version available surely there shouldn't
    be one because it was designed using Gill Sans Ultra Bold. And that Trumania shouldn't
    exist. Just use the original font.  \r\n\r\nIts like saying there isn't a free
    version of of a song so we'll copy it, call it something different, then put on
    the internet. and insist that it's not the original because it is 2 seconds longer.
    Just because they say it's not the original doesn't mean it isn't. \r\n\r\nAnd
    he mentions about designers having copywriters and publicists, most of the fonts
    I have found are free and probably people who don't make much or if not any money
    from them. \r\n\r\nSo how is something like this font allowed to stay on sites
    like urbanfonts for free?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-19 21:26:28'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Yes Simon, I did. Thank you for pointing that up. And this thread is so far
    off  it makes me laugh. Totally lacking from his speech/diatribe is a celebration
    or promotion of new/innovative/groundbreaking type. I think this is one of the
    problems with the current type scene, not enough innovation and a laziness that
    leads people back to the easy path... revision, revival ad nauseum. I was recently
    contacted about doing a corporate style for a company. They faxed me the bid from
    a North East company. It said... \"we will adapt any of our faces to accommodate
    your needs.\" How creative is that? First time digital work on a previously unexplored
    style is just great; but for us to work and rework and rework styles is just a
    self indulgent exercise that does nothing to create styles for our times. \r\n\r\nHow
    many variations of Helveticas or Garamonds do we need if there is not a spits
    bit of difference between them. Oh I forgot you can add a bunch of alternates
    and call it new. Hell, the new breed of designers cannot even use the available
    ones effectively! I once had a design student that told me the leading was AUTO...
    how dumb is that? He would have not made it out of one of my classes but we have
    idiots teaching idiots. Unfortunately I got him in his senior year. Maybe we should
    expend our efforts educating the next generation of designers and then get back
    to the business of type design.\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-05-19 22:24:24'
- author:
    name: Robert Trogman
    picture: 111573
  body: 'URW++ has been warned by me to stop selling typefaces I originally licensed
    to Berthold Fototype. Stempel, Bitstream, Mecanorma and Letraset. They have never
    responded to my accusation of piracy. '
  created: '2008-05-20 03:35:27'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>So how is something like this font allowed to stay on sites like urbanfonts
    for free?</cite>\r\n\r\nDo you have a few hundred thousand dollars and a patient
    IP lawyer on retainer?"
  created: '2008-05-20 04:03:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>for us to work and rework and rework styles is just a self indulgent
    exercise that does nothing to create styles for our times.</em>\r\n\r\nThat may
    be true in some cases, but in general you can't blame type foundries for meeting
    the needs of the market.\r\nA sensible business model for foundries centres on
    custom work for publications and corporations, and that is how many retail faces
    are developed. So when those institutions ask for conservative, derivative designs,
    that's what many foundries will devote their efforts to.\r\n\r\nAnd if you're
    developing retail fonts, it's foolish (or high-minded!) not to have some grunge
    and retro scripts in your catalog.\r\n\r\nUltimately, history mining and derivative
    work <em>is</em> representative of our time. One reason perhaps, other than any
    general conservative trend in society, is that digital culture focuses on the
    possibilities of the space between media, rather than originating fresh content.\r\n\r\nNonetheless,
    there are plenty of novel, experimental, and original typefaces available. Subsequent
    to decrying the hegemony of Helvetica, I took a more positive tack in a 2004 magazine
    article bigging up (big upping?) ten new faces. Since then, I'd have to say there
    are a lot more original faces being published (just ask Stephen Coles), and the
    market for fonts appears to be thriving.   "
  created: '2008-05-20 07:35:39'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "is that digital culture focuses on the possibilities of the space between
    media, rather than originating fresh content.\r\n\r\nNever thought of it that
    way Nick.\r\n\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-05-20 12:03:03'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "\"Ultimately, history mining and derivative work is representative of our
    time.\"\r\n\r\nFor me this hits the nail head right on. Like or not, what you
    know comes from the past and it is not only IN you, it is in ALL of us.\r\n\r\nI
    decided to post my questions here, as I have this questions since late 1990s when
    I first used Fontographer. Actually my decision on moving forward with this 'antique'
    obsession is more a necessity then a interest on becoming one more in the crowd.\r\n\r\nMy
    interest is more of a print making perspective then font making. I have a press
    to feed, and better be using my own renditions of the old. I sincerely love it,
    and if it wasn't the case that my Time machine moved by WILL has a broken amber
    (which I am unable to reproduce), I am unable to go back to 1845, and buy it from
    the lead guys.\r\n\r\nCheers\r\n\r\nAndre Galvao\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-20 12:44:47'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"[\u2026] in the 1980s, Linotype was [\u2026] not interested in making digital
    fonts for the slowly emerging DTP market. \"\r\n\r\nNot surprisingly, this is
    not true, as is seen in Linotype's 1984 licensing deal with Adobe (a dtp company
    for sure), for names and designs and  later, data. In the early 80's Linotype
    became disinterested in type design, cut the funding of that department by a 1/4
    of a million dollars per year and opened the exit doors wide. This condition,
    funding for machines but not new type development, was one they never recovered
    from. Bitstream had to make nearly the same decision by 1994, and went the same
    way, i.e. money for technology, not for new type.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-05-20 13:07:35'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Thanks for sharing your knowledge. It\u2019s not easy to wrap one\u2019s
    mind around those rather recent things that can\u2019t read in books."
  created: '2008-05-20 13:45:28'
- author:
    name: Corbeau
    picture: 115014
  body: "See http://www.sanskritweb.de/forgers.htm for a very jaundiced view of the
    font industry. The author also provides a mass of font-related information, including
    an exhaustive guide to the fonts supplied with Corel packages.\r\n\r\nThanks for
    the interesting discussion."
  created: '2008-05-20 16:44:54'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "[Trumania]\r\n<em>So how is something like this font allowed to stay on sites
    like urbanfonts for free?</em>\r\n\r\n<em>Do you have a few hundred thousand dollars
    and a patient IP lawyer on retainer?</em>\r\n\r\nEven if you had, you could well
    save your money and effort.\r\n\r\nYou may be aware that typeface designs are
    generally not copyrightable. Even if Gill Sans would have been copyrighted \u2013
    Eric Gill has been dead since 1940, which means all his work will be in the public
    domain in a mere two and a half years.\r\n\r\nBut don't confuse this with the
    digital data of the Gill Sans fonts. The author of \"Trumania\" didn't use them,
    as you can see when you superimpose it with Gill Sans. Trumania is badly drawn,
    and no-one looking for Gill Sans Ultrabold will  come across it as a viable alternative,
    so all this makes this a non-issue in my opinion.\r\n\r\nJens"
  created: '2008-05-20 17:08:15'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"The ass\u2019s site, Jagdesh, is in Pakistan...\"\r\n\r\nSo, maybe Pakistan
    is not a good place to host an ATypI conference either then, hu?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-05-24 11:10:58'
date: '2008-05-16 22:56:48'
title: Pirate type

---
