---
author:
  name: William Berkson
  picture: 110306
body: "The latest \"Letterspace\" newsletter of the TDC (Type Directors Club) has
  a fascinating piece on type history called \"The Conceptual Basis of Type Design.\"\r\n\r\nIn
  it Sumner Stone argues that the Jenson and Griffo made a fundamental break with
  scribal tradition, to letter designs that were critically dependent on the sculpting
  of metal, rather than on purely pen-written shapes. As this is what I was arguing
  in [[http://www.typophile.com/node/37310|the lengthy \"rule or law\" thread]], I
  was delighted to see strong support for this view. \r\n\r\nThe TDC is putting up
  past issues of Letterspace on its web site, so I suppose this essay will eventually
  be up. \r\n\r\nMeanwhile here is the argument in brief. In the early 15th century,
  scribe Poggio Bracciolini revived the Carolingian Miniscule (the basis of our lower
  case letters) and married it for the first time with Roman Capitals, rather than
  with Uncial or Rustic majuscules. However, Bracciolini did not do the Roman Capital
  style of serifs, following instead a style more natural to the pen, such as we see
  in the Lydian and Beorcana typefaces.\r\n\r\nLater in the century, other scribes
  tried to emulate the much admired Roman Capitals more closely, building the serifs
  with many strokes of the pen. They also sometimes put symmetrical serifs on the
  lower case letters, which had not been done previously. \r\n\r\nNow comes Stone's
  new insight into the history. These later efforts were not really successful; they
  in fact were rather awkward. The reason is that the Roman Capitals, as Edward Catich
  showed, were originally painted--built up with a broad brush, not a pen--and then
  the painted part was carved out of the stone. Because the Capitals were really a
  painters' and carvers' style they couldn't adapt very well to the fixed width pen.
  \r\n\r\nThis situation changed drastically with the introduction of printing and
  punch cut letters. Here the sculpting of letters in metal could emulate the fine,
  symmetric serifs of Roman Capitals, and put fine, tapering serifs on the lower case,
  to match the caps. Jenson started this and then Griffo completed the story with
  more fully symmetric serifs on the lower case. These styles more fully and successfully
  married upper and lower case letters. \r\n\r\nStone explains: \"[The structure of
  the lower case] remained closely related to the pen-written letter, but thin, symmetric
  foot serifs replaced the thicker asymmetric pen versions and there was an increase
  in the overall formality of the miniscules. \r\n\r\n\"Thus, unlike Gutenberg and
  other early printers who used blackletter forms, the designers of the first roman
  types did not directly imitate contemporary scribal models. They used the freedom
  inherent in the new process of engraving punches to construct a new design in which
  the forms of the Roman capitals were more closely based on Roman inscriptional models
  and the lower case, perhaps a bit grudgingly, was made to adopt some of the features
  of the new/old capitals.\"\r\n\r\nIn that earlier thread, I was more concerned with
  modifications of writing for the sake of even color in type. However, in any case
  Stone's argument here indicates that the influence of \"The Stroke\" of the pen,
  while still very important in the development of type, is somewhat less so than
  what G. Noordzij indicates in his book of that name, and painting and carving have
  had a larger influence on the evolution of type design.   \r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Sounds fabulous, I\u2019ll have to ask around and see if someone has an issue
    I can borrow. \r\n\r\n<em>However, in any case Stone\u2019s argument here indicates
    that the influence of \u201CThe Stroke\u201D of the pen, while still very important
    in the development of type, is somewhat less so than what G. Noordzij indicates
    in his book of that name\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nWhen I read that section of <em>The
    Stroke</em> I thought it seemed stretched pretty thin, a logical path carefully
    crafted only <em>after</em> its destination was determined."
  created: '2008-05-25 19:36:41'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I suspect the reality is far more mushy. \r\n\r\nI have seen a reasonable
    amount of  of pen based lowercase that looks quite a lot like Jenson and Griffo's
    work. \r\n\r\nThis isn't the only one or even the best example but it's a start:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/ebensorkin/1553408656/in/set-72157601975232363/\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/ebensorkin/1550029204/in/set-72157601975232363/\r\n\r\nThe
    part of this post that seems somehow fishy to me is the idea that the Roman Capitals
    were really a problem for the pen. They were not made the same way by the pen
    exactly. And punchcut they are also not quite the same either. But I don't get
    a sense of a problem in either case. The Roman caps of Jenson and Griffo maybe
    have been harmonized by sharing a technique of production as much or more than
    as a result of an intellectual or deliberate effort to harmonize somehow these
    forms that were especially hard to marry. So this heavy emphasis on models in
    all cases seems like a red herring to me - at least so far.\r\n\r\nMoreover the
    ideas of Edward Catich are ceratinly to accepted by everyone. In fact, James'
    comment about the the ideas in 'the stroke' \"a logical path carefully crafted
    only after its destination was determined\" seem to apply at least well in case
    of Catich. The opposite view being that in fact it is perfectly possible to arrive
    at the shapes of Roman letters simply by the application of a chisel. That you
    can after the fact create a representation with a brush proves little. In short,
    it's a chicken or egg problem.\r\n\r\nMy take is that the break with the scribal
    was a slow process of letting go not sudden \"fundamental break \" that shows
    up in the twinkling of an eye. Unless one man's lifetime is seen as sudden. \r\n\r\nThe
    fundamental problem with these kinds of statements too is that the 15th & 16th
    century is have perhaps the very most diverse kinds of scribal hands in use of
    any period. This sheer diversity makes any simple or easy to understand narrative
    sound suspect from the outset.\r\n\r\nI may have the wrong end of the stick on
    this. But that's how it looks to me just now.\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-25 21:35:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Eben, just so you have what Stone actually says about the Roman inscriptions,
    here it is:\r\n\r\n\"The tool for laying out inscriptions was a flexible flat
    brush, and the letters in inscriptions were both fewer and larger than those in
    manuscripts. Although the overall impression of the Imperial forms is that they
    were made with an edged tool, the details, like the serifs and the subtle changes
    in weights and connections of strokes clearly distinguish these stately letters
    from pen-written manuscript forms. The ancient letters were then carved into stone,
    a step which allowed for additional refinement\"\r\n\r\nStone's point I don't
    think relies solely on Catich being right. It is rather the distinguishing features
    of the actual carved vs manuscript letters--and then those cut in metal. Stone's
    article is copiously and aptly illustrated, and to me the illustrations make his
    case pretty convincing. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-25 22:26:06'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I had better read the original. You are right. I wonder if it's something
    a library can get me.
  created: '2008-05-25 23:07:08'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "William, or should I say Sumner \r\n\r\nWrong wrong wrong!  The forms of
    the \"brush\" written caps are easily emulated by a pliable (quill) pens that
    are used with a pressure/release and angle manipulation techniques. Arthur Baker
    (and any calligrapher worth their salt) has spent a lifetime espousing this, AND
    proving it with both his original and fine art work. Yes the larger forms avail
    themselves to even finer nuances (with size)  but the results are the same!!!
    All you have to do is watch Zapf work at small sizes and your mind would be changed.\r\n\r\nMichael
    \r\n"
  created: '2008-05-26 01:35:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Michael, didn''t the pointed, flexible tip pens come later? That is, they
    weren''t used by scribes in the 15th century, right? If so the point (!) holds. '
  created: '2008-05-26 01:47:36'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Here are two examples of less that .5 inch lettering done with chisel edged
    pens with manipulation which rival the nuances of the LARGE Trajan caps. The pointed
    pen is irrelevant in the making of Roman Caps. The chisel edged pen was employed
    long before the 15th century(!)\r\n\r\n\r\nMichael[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Caps_5676.jpg]"
  created: '2008-05-26 02:06:49'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "In actuality writing on a surface akin to paper occurred in the 3rd century
    before Christ. The Greeks had it all.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-05-26 02:47:47'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I'm confused - that (C)OUNTRYSID(E) example is clearly "filled in" areas with
    a small pen, no? That is, the "strokes" of the letters are not "strokes" of the
    writing tool; so really it's more akin to the use of a brush that Sumner/Bill
    are writing about.
  created: '2008-05-26 03:07:45'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "What I am fighting is the thought that the pre-brush/carved forms of the
    first century cannot be done in the manuscript tradition. THAT IS PURE B.S.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-05-26 03:24:44'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "No it is writing with the lifting of the pen to create wells or blank spaces...
    in other words the etches are where the pen is lifted, more important is the modulation
    of the stems, waisting as in most Transitional faces or the Trajan Caps. The countrysides
    is straight out of the pen... there is no touch up! I.E. calligraphy as in manuscript!
    These are scans of original art. HEAVY pen manipulation. I.e. it can be done on
    a small scale!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-05-26 03:25:50'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Is the modulation in the letterforms not apparent?\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-05-26 03:27:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Michael, I don't think we're on the same page here, because Stone and Noordzij
    are referring to the *writing* a scribe would do then, quickly and with the fixed
    width (not expansible) pen held at more or less a constant angle. They are not
    talking about built-up letters, as Eliason notes. \r\n\r\nBecause of the multi-colors
    it looks like your lovely \"seasonings\" is also built up, no? I am not a calligrapher,
    as you are, but I dare say that it is not possible to *write* in single strokes
    the 'seasonings' letters even in one color with a fixed width pen held at a constant
    angle. \r\n \r\nYes, they did have a 'chisel' or broad tip pen, going back in
    antiquity, but it was not particularly flexible until the 18th century, if I've
    got the history right. \r\n\r\nedit: I cross posted. I see that you made many
    strokes. Stone may be wrong, but I think you're not getting the distinction between
    \"writing\" and built up letters, which is key for both Stone and Noordzij.  "
  created: '2008-05-26 03:43:00'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "NO BUILD UP. The SEASONINGS was in fact done with a chisel edged pen and
    the colors were loaded as I progressed with the strokes, using both angle changes
    and pressure/release. Maybe you should avail yourself to the possibilities of
    the pen before you tell me I cannot do what I do..\r\n\r\nThe quill was used many
    centuries before and they were far more flexible than the NIBS of today!!! Compare
    the feather quill to metal and my point will be made.\r\n\r\nMichael\r\n\r\nP.S.
    They, the scribes  did not use fixed pen angles.  I will trot out the necessary
    info if I have to."
  created: '2008-05-26 03:56:52'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "As far as the Countrysides\r\n\r\nI was merely trying to display a ductus
    OBVIOUS example of a titling piece that showed modulation and pen rotation (inherent
    in the piece) that, in fact, went beyond the brush inspired form of the Trajan
    caps. IT WAS DONE ALL AT ONCE with no going back. Original art! The incisions
    were an aside but pointed to the process of manipultion. \r\n\r\nI get tired of
    the banter that goes on about letterforms that is ill informed by people that
    have never picked up a pen, much less never made their living doing it!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-05-26 04:29:47'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I have a feeling that Sumner's argument has a much deeper seeded meaning
    than is being glossed by most. After all he was a great calligrapher!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-05-26 05:07:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Michael, what is at issue here is Stone's view that the letter forms of Jenson
    and Griffo reflect forms that are a product of built up letters, and not written
    letters. If you think the distinction between written and built-up is not valid,
    please explain.   \r\n\r\nI admire your wonderful lettering and calligraphy, and
    calligraphic type faces. However, both Stone and Noordzij are also skilled calligraphers.
    \r\n\r\nIn \"The Stroke\" Noordzij says that rotation of the pen in writing only
    became into writing in 17th century \"mannerism\". \r\n\r\nAlso the flexible,
    pointed split nib pen is said, for example [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pen_nib|here
    in the Wikipedia article]] to have come into use only in the 17th century. \r\n\r\nBefore
    that the characteristic written letter forms, it is said in most histories that
    I have seen, were formed by a broad pen of fixed width moving at pretty much a
    constant angle.\r\n\r\nWith rotation and expansion of the nib of the pen--such
    as you are skilled at--you can get effects of built up letters, but neither were
    done until after the time of Jenson and Griffo, if these histories to believed.
    \r\n\r\nAre there histories which contradict these claims?"
  created: '2008-05-26 05:13:39'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Wikepedia would not know its ass from a hole in the ground.\r\n\r\nI am not
    even talking about the split pointed pen.\r\n\r\nTHE CHISEL EDGED PEN The Roman
    Square Capitals of the 4th century!\r\nIf these are not manipulated I am Santa
    Claus!\r\n\r\nRustic Capitals... ring a bell?\r\n\r\nYou want more.\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-05-26 05:20:41'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "In addition... How simple can I make it for you... I DID NOT BUILD UP THE
    LETTERS!\r\n\r\nWith skilled practice (which has been around since man picked
    up the pen) anyone can do it with varying degrees of success!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-05-26 05:26:11'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I am running out of beer so if you want to be right I am going to bed!\r\n\r\nShalom\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-05-26 05:31:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Michael, I am just trying to communicate, and not doing a very good job,
    evidently.\r\n\r\nI don't see in Rustic capitals any evidence of pen rotation.
    [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8rtrfgSnGHw&fmt=18|Here is a Youtube video of
    writing Rustic Capitals]]. The guy in this video holds his pen at a constant angle,
    never rotating at all that I can see. \r\n\r\nDo you mean something different
    about rotation of the angle of the pen? \r\n\r\nYou seem to think that rotation
    and expansion of pen tips has been around always as regular practice in writing.
    Everything I have read contradicts this. This is not a question of skill but of
    history. "
  created: '2008-05-26 05:43:51'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "If they were done with anything other than a Rotring pen and by someone who
    knew what they were doing with Rustic Caps the I would say you have a point. True
    Rustic Caps .... well these pale in comparison as far as the nuances. God bless
    the internet and its ability to spread ignorance.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-05-26 05:54:22'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Manipulation is the bedrock of letter forms. It is not a new thing! Please
    believe me. Whatever you are reading is so ridiculously wrong. Think about it,
    if you are doing Egyptian you have to turn the pen perpendicular to the stem to
    get a comparable weight serif.  Hello. Pen manipulation!\r\nIt has been around
    for at least 17 centuries!\r\nBed... gone. Pick it up tomorrow.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-05-26 06:07:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, I have not read Sumner's article (my copy of the newsletter has not
    arrived yet), but it seems to me that you are getting a little over excited when
    you say 'what is at issue here is Stone\u2019s view that the letter forms of Jenson
    and Griffo reflect forms that are a product of built up letters, and not written
    letters'. At least, it seems that way from your summary of Sumner's line of thought,
    because Sumner appears to be talking fairly specifically about serifs, i.e. stroke
    terminals, not 'letter forms' in toto.\r\n\r\nI'll just make a few very quick
    comments:\r\n\r\n1. The point about the difficulty of making classical Roman serif
    shapes with a pen -- especially a reed or quill -- is acceptable only within the
    context of scribal 'publishing', i.e. document production, in which writing is
    expected to be fairly fast, even when the formal roman bookhand is being written.
    More slowly, and as often seen at larger sizes, such serifs can be formed with
    a pen, as countless calligraphers have demonstrated. So it is not a question of
    scribes being unable to make such forms with their pens, but of them typically
    making a different form in the humanist bookhand. In fact, I'd go so far as to
    say that the whole debate about whether this is possible is a red herring because
    what really matters is...\r\n\r\n2. ...the conscious decision by early type makers
    to model their serifs on the classical Roman forms rather than on the typical
    humanist bookhand serifs. I don't think this is because there is anything specifically
    'sculptural' about these forms, though. I think they viewed these serifs as a
    classical ideal, something that resonated with the renaissance rediscovery of
    classical Roman literature and art and, as such, most appropriate to the subject
    matter of their books. \r\n\r\n3. But the letter forms themselves are still very
    much based around the stroke of the written forms, even as details become idealised.
    And it is interesting to note how this model persists: the structure of typographic
    letters and their characteristic contrast patterns continue to derive from written
    forms even as the tools of writing change (most dramatically in the 18th century),
    while terminals and serifs are subject to idealisation. So in the same way that
    we can observe someone like Griffo idealising the serifs while following the structure
    and ductus of the humanist bookhand, we can see Bodoni doing the same thing, three
    hundred years later, with a different writing model based on a different tool
    with a different ductus, treating terminals as balls and serifs as fine lines:
    the forms, in this case, suggested by the characteristics and abilities of the
    tool, but idealised in their typographic interpretation."
  created: '2008-05-26 06:58:58'
- author:
    name: daniele capo
    picture: 113718
  body: "I don't know if it can be useful for your debate. I've found this example
    of capitals (from the Scuola Vaticana di Paleografia):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/alcuin_5978.jpg]\r\n\r\nthis
    is from the 'Alcuin bible' A.D. 800 circa. \r\n"
  created: '2008-05-26 10:08:04'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: Thank you John!
  created: '2008-05-26 13:11:52'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t think this is because there is anything specifically \u2019sculptural\u2019
    about these forms, though. I think they viewed these serifs as a classical ideal,
    something that resonated with the renaissance rediscovery of classical Roman literature
    and art and, as such, most appropriate to the subject matter of their books.</em>\r\n\r\nOr
    they simply saw them as the nicest way to make letters, when the time factor of
    penning each one is annulled. \r\n\r\nInteresting pic, MiseEnAbime. The striking
    shift in style made me think at first that the title had to be a later addition!
    [[http://employees.oneonta.edu/farberas/ARTH/ARTH212/Carolingian_Culture/Caroline1.html|Here's
    another from the 9th c.]]."
  created: '2008-05-26 15:11:53'
- author:
    name: gthompson
    picture: 109676
  body: "<em>In it Sumner Stone argues that the Jenson and Griffo made a fundamental
    break with scribal tradition, to letter designs that were critically dependent
    on the sculpting of metal, rather than on purely pen-written shapes. </em>\r\n\r\nI
    would agree with Stone in the case of Griffo whose work clearly shows a sculptural
    sensibility, but not Jenson. His work is still tied to the idea of recreating
    a form rather than creating it. By that I mean that Jenson was looking at a pen
    letter model as a guide. Griffo was moving away from that idea as can be seen
    in De Aetna. There are variants of certain lowercase letters and some are \u2014
    to my eye \u2014 sculptural and some still based on pen lettering. Griffo was
    apparently moving away from the pen model. The typeface of the Poliphili doesn't
    have this same level of variance and the letters seem to me to be entirely sculptural.
    The difference is whether the letter is created positively as in pen lettering
    or negatively as in carving. \r\n\r\nGeorge \r\nI felt bad because I had no shoes,
    until I met a man who had no Bodoni"
  created: '2008-05-26 15:23:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "<strong>Michael</strong>, when you write about my \"telling you what you
    can do\" you are completely misreading me. I am not talking about you as a contemporary
    calligrapher, but about historically what was actually done by scribes, not calligraphers--a
    category that I believe didn't exist. \r\n\r\n[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image:RomanVirgilFolio014rVergilPortrait.jpg|Here
    are actual Rustic Capitals]]. To me they look like they were written with a broad
    pen, not particularly flexible, and with no rotation of the pen tip. Can you point
    me to where you think the pen must have been rotated? \r\n\r\nWere your \"Countryside\"
    letters made with a rapid zig-zag filling in the form of the letters? If so, that
    is exactly the kind of thing that Noordzij calls \"building up\" letters, and
    not writing. You keep not answering my question of whether the distinction between
    built up lettering and writing is a valid one. And you never give me any references
    to any historical facts that contradict what I have been reporting on my reading.
    After you answer, I think we can communicate better. \r\n\r\n<strong>John</strong>,
    I was focusing on the difference of Sumner Stone's view from Noordzij's. Stone
    still  gives a big role to the influence of the written forms. But he does go
    beyond the serifs as part of the departure from writing. As I quoted earlier,
    he writes,  \r\n\r\n\"the details, like the serifs and the subtle changes in weights
    and connections of strokes clearly distinguish these stately letters from pen-written
    manuscript forms.\"\r\n\r\nIn writing of the changes in weights and connections,
    I believe he is referring to the same factors that I argued in the earlier thread,
    which help even color and readability, as well as pleasing form.\r\n\r\nI thought
    you conceded that such manipulation was going on with Jenson and Griffo, and this
    did represent a change. Peter Enneson did write that perhaps Noordzij did err
    in not sufficiently such \"feature manipulation.\" \r\n\r\nAs to my excitement,
    that is just <em>joi de vivre</em>. Many of you English seem to think that enjoying
    yourself is <em>infra dig</em> as English schoolboy slang has it, but I am unrepentant.
    \r\n\r\nThe question here is not whether the written forms were influential, which
    everyone agrees, but whether Jenson and Griffo made a fundamental change and advance.
    That Stone   does seem to think so in the above quotation, and that the change
    was away from the written forms. Do you disagree?  \r\n\r\n<strong>George</strong>,
    I cross-posted with you. I agree with you that Griffo is a more clear break, particularly
    on the serifs, but I think that Jenson has already headed that direction, though
    not so decisively. Both are, of course, still heavily influenced by the writting,
    as letters are still today. \r\n"
  created: '2008-05-26 15:43:40'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>Here are actual Rustic Capitals. To me they look like they were written
    with a broad pen, not particularly flexible, and with no rotation of the pen tip.
    Can you point me to where you think the pen must have been rotated?</em>\r\n\r\nDoes
    rotation have to occur during a stroke to count? The Rustic H's I've seen have
    different thicknesses of their vertical strokes.\r\n\r\nEDIT: As [[http://www.ibiblio.org/expo/vatican.exhibit/exhibit/a-vatican_lib/images/vlib21.jpg|here,
    for example]]."
  created: '2008-05-26 15:58:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Jenson and Griffo made a fundamental change</em>\r\n\r\nSweynheym and
    Pannartz made the first type based on humanist writing--Roman capitals plus Carolignian
    miniscules, after the Italian humanist style of writing. \r\n\r\nOne important
    innovation of Jenson's lower case was the straight right side of the \"h\". His
    contemporaries followed the scribal practice (both blackletter and humanist) of
    a curved right side. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-26 17:05:14'
- author:
    name: gthompson
    picture: 109676
  body: "<em> I agree with you that Griffo is a more clear break, particularly on
    the serifs, but I think that Jenson has already headed that direction, though
    not so decisively. Both are, of course, still heavily influenced by the writting,
    as letters are still today.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think that Jenson's work was intentionally
    sculptural whereas Griffo's clearly was. Griffo shows a much greater awareness
    of the interaction of positive-negative space than Jenson. Both were influenced
    by writing but ideas about form had changed between the time of Jenson \u2014
    early High Renaissance \u2014 and Griffo \u2014 mid High Renaissance. Griffo was
    doing similar things with positive-negative space in his page layouts in the Poliphili
    and I think this came directly from his design practice.\r\n\r\nAnd I would disagree
    that letters today are \"heavily\" influenced by writing. Writing is about letter
    form and we've moved past designing typefaces based on form to a greater consideration
    of letter structure which has a much greater impact on contemporary design practice
    than writing does.\r\n\r\nGeorge \r\nI felt bad because I had no shoes, until
    I met a man who had no Bodoni"
  created: '2008-05-26 17:33:55'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: "The marriage of inscriptional capitals and pen-made small letters whether
    in handwriting or in type is not a perfectly happy one, and many of the artists
    who have turned their hands to designing typefaces have tried to undo it. At first
    there was doubt as to which should be the dominant partner and impose its idiom
    on the other. However, Jenson to a large extent and Aldus completely laid down
    a pattern of a consortium preserving the purity of the antique capitals and making
    the lower-case conform with them as best it could. Such was the prestige of Aldus
    and the skill of his punchcutter that this arrangement of the priorities has been
    the rule ever since.\r\n\r\nHarry Carter, <em>A view of early typography</em>
    (1969), page 46."
  created: '2008-05-26 17:36:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Eliason, Noordzij focuses on rotation within the stroke, which he says is
    mannerist, and not earlier. I don't see a discussion of rotation between different
    strokes. Stone doesn't discuss rotation. \r\n\r\nThe thicker right strokes of
    the H's in your picture may be partly because they veer a bit to the diagonal,
    and perhaps are borne down on more. It looks like this is a deliberate effort
    to distinguish the H's from two I's or LI. The pen seems to be held at something
    like a 60 degree angle for this style of letters, (cf the Youtube video), so,
    contrary to the stone-inscribed Capitals, the verticals are generally lighter
    than the horizontals and diagonals also quite thick. I suspect rotation of the
    pen is not required. \r\n\r\nThanks, James, the quote from Harry Carter is apt.
    I would just expand on that by saying that the 'skill of his punchcutter', apparently
    Griffo, is a mastery of design, as well manual dexterity. To cite just one example,
    the diagonals are lighter than they would be than if written by pen at a constant
    angle, and so more even color of the text is achieved.  "
  created: '2008-05-26 17:57:59'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "<Michael, when you write about my \u201Ctelling you what you can do\u201D
    you are completely misreading me. I am not talking about you as a contemporary
    calligrapher, but about historically what was actually done by scribes, not calligraphers\u2014a
    category that I believe didn\u2019t exist.>\r\n\r\nI am going to respond to this
    and then I will have time with the family and get back on later!\r\n\r\nIT WAS
    ONE IN THE SAME. They too did titling, it was not about manuscripts totally. Proclamations,
    frontispieces, endispieces, etc, etc."
  created: '2008-05-26 23:41:50'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Dear William.\r\n\r\nAs I have said I think that the Stone argument has little
    to do with what we are discussing but you have a misguided sense of what is real
    and what is malarkey. \r\n\r\nWAISTING: in Transitional Roman this is achieved
    via pen manipulation, i.e. pressure at the beginning of a stem, release toward
    the center and pressure toward the end. Then you have a flattening of the pen
    angle in the exit... voila the serif. This has been around for umpteen centuries.
    It did not start in the 15th century. Throw away that research please.\r\n\r\nThe
    guy in the video. DO YOU WATCH NETWORK NEWS AND BELIEVE IT?\r\n\r\nHave you scrutinized
    his letterforms against the antiquities. I DON'T THINK SO, and neither did he!
    Because the forms(original) incorporate modulation, and have less staid nuances.\r\n\r\nAs
    to the Countryside... The letters were made in one continuous stroke, pen angle
    altered between between flat and 40 degrees which ultimately define serifs as
    well as the waisting in the stems. The incisions were achieved by rocking the
    pen during the process.\r\n\r\nYou need to get a pen and experiment... until you
    do you will sit and argue from an ivory tower position with no practical experience
    reading God knows who and I will keep banging my head against a wall. \r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-05-27 02:35:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>The question here is not whether the written forms were influential,
    which everyone agrees, but whether Jenson and Griffo made a fundamental change
    and advance. That Stone does seem to think so in the above quotation, and that
    the change was away from the written forms. Do you disagree?</em>\r\n\r\nI don't
    think the change was significantly 'away from the written forms', at least not
    in terms of the text culture in which both print and manuscript, type and writing,
    were still very much in daily 'conversation'. As I wrote in the earlier discussion,
    I think the kind of features to which Sumner draws attention -- treatment of serifs,
    of connection between strokes, of subtle variation in weight -- are very important
    within a narrow history of typography and more specifically of typeface design.
    And perhaps they are most important in terms of being able to make letters <em>smaller</em>
    while retaining open counters, clean connections and crotches, etc.. But the letter
    forms are still 'fundamentally' the same as the written forms: the treatment of
    terminals are idealisations of the written terminals, the variations of weight
    are variations on a pattern established by the ductus of the pen, and the counters
    and crotches that are being given attention to survive the printing process as
    the same counters and crotches that result from the writing of the same letters.
    And I think one of the best ways to judge the significance of these innovations,
    in terms of moving away from the written forms, is to compare them to 19th century
    types that really do leave the chirographic models behind (and in many cases become
    ugly and difficult to read in the process)."
  created: '2008-05-27 02:37:43'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I have seen so much disinformation in the past several decades. I was talking
    to a lettering buddy the other day and we got to giggling about how there has
    been much made of an album logo he did decades ago. Demonic it is said. He actually
    used some Bible pages as the inspiration! He said he finally went online to correct
    it but people would rather create false information than believe the truth.\r\n\r\n20/20
    hindsight and critics. All BS.\r\n\r\nAs to the H. Could it be as simple as the
    H needed an entry serif on the left hence the lighter weight of the down stroke
    to compensate for that very serif. The right side was a more speeded up stroke
    and visually did not need a top serif so it was a simple \"draw down\" and manipulated
    to create weight at the base! Simple as that. Second nature to a calligrapher.
    No research needed. No need to spend millions of taxpayers money to figure it
    WORKED OUT JUST BEAUTIFUL. Just like using odd numbers in the garden.\r\n\r\nI
    have said 100000000000 times that the first stroke you lay down defines all the
    rest. Whether it is manuscript, logo or type design this is true.\r\n\r\nTo say
    that modulation has not had a place in letters since its genesis is just wrong!
    All you have to do is look at the development of the Aleph (Phonecian) to our
    current A, scratch to pen. Modulation all the way, and pen manipulation to boot,
    depending on the style.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-05-27 03:13:07'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>19th century types that really do leave the chirographic models behind
    (and in many cases become ugly and difficult to read in the process)</em>\r\n\r\nWilling
    to name names? I'm curious as to what you have in mind with this."
  created: '2008-05-27 03:28:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Willing to name names?</em>\r\n\r\nClarendon types are a good example
    of what I have in mind, while still being in the realm of 'normal' typographic
    letters. Charles Ricketts' Vale Press types are another, more extreme case."
  created: '2008-05-27 06:52:15'
- author:
    name: Textwrapper
    picture: 112864
  body: Please, enough with the all caps already.
  created: '2008-05-27 07:41:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">the treatment of terminals are idealisations of the written terminals\r\n\r\nSo
    you don't agree with Stone, as I understand him. \r\n\r\nHe says that the symmetric
    serifs did not arise from any written form. It arose rather from painted and carved
    forms. If you accept that the distinctive treatment of serifs and weights in inscriptional
    characters doesn't come from writing, then he has a strong argument, as the ideal
    wasn't a written one, either ancient or medieval. Do you think that the distinctive
    features of the letters eg on the Trajan Column, that we don't see in surviving
    writing, as I understand it, were actually written forms?\r\n\r\n>the variations
    of weight are variations on a pattern established by the ductus of the pen...\r\n\r\nI
    don't want to quibble about what is 'fundamental' or 'essential', but what I do
    think is that Jenson and Griffo had a conscious goal of improving on their written
    predecessors, that they were willing to contradict the written models, and that
    they succeeded particularly in increasing readability. \r\n\r\nI do think that
    more upright forms with more even color, and at smaller size all increased readability.
    What you seem to be saying is that they were just trying to make letters that
    were just more perfect forms of written models. That I think flies in the face
    of the fact that they were willing to straighten eg the right stem of the n, as
    Nick points out, and systematically *contradict* the 'pen rules' as far as the
    weight of diagonals.\r\n\r\nI am getting a deja vu experience here. When I studied
    history of science, I read how devoted Catholic Pierre Duhem argued strongly that
    modern science continuously evolved from medieval science. Alexander Koyr\xE9
    on the other side argued for the discontinuity of Galileo's breakthroughs and
    the reality of revolution in science. I always thought that Koyr\xE9 had the better
    of the argument. Jenson and Griffo's innovations are no way as great as Copernicus
    and Galileo's, but I still think there is a conscious and deliberate innovation
    going on.  \r\n\r\n>To say that modulation has not had a place in letters since
    its genesis is just wrong!\r\n\r\nI never mentioned \"modulation,\" so I don't
    know what you are talking about. \r\n\r\nNoordzij identifies three sources of
    modulation in the written stroke. First is \"translation.\" When  a broad pen
    with fixed width and angle moves through a curve, the width of the stroke changes
    with the curve. This was always there. Second is \"rotation,\" when the pen is
    rotated on its axis, also changing the width of the stroke; he says historically
    this only came in a systematic way with mannerism. Third is \"expansion,\" where
    more pressure on the pen broadens the stroke, and which he says only came in a
    dramatic way with the pointed, more flexible pen tip. The pointed flexible tip
    pen culminated in the \"copperplate\" style of script, and influenced 'transitional'
    style type design. \r\n\r\nIt seems you dismiss Noordzij as an ignoramus, as all
    of this went on since antiquity. I think you are flat wrong on that, but I am
    here to learn. If you can give some historical examples and analyze them concerning
    rotation and expansion, I'll be happy to change my views. "
  created: '2008-05-27 15:25:26'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "It seems you dismiss Noordzij as an ignoramus, as all of this went on since
    antiquity. I think you are flat wrong on that, but I am here to learn. If you
    can give some historical examples and analyze them concerning rotation and expansion,
    I\u2019ll be happy to change my views.\r\n\r\nHOW DARE YOU PUT THOSE WORDS IN
    MY MOUTH! I have always been enamored with his work. One of the first books I
    bought was Lettering Today (USAF Library, DaNang AB)  and his work is beautiful.
    You are not here \"to learn.\" You keep throwing this crap back in my face and
    misquoting me just to appear right... according to your readings!!!!!!\r\n\r\nAll
    three of the models you spoke of are examples of modulation! As to the third it
    is impossible to work with a quill and not avail yourself to the pliability of
    the tool. Why don't you call it by the proper terms. Rotation is pen manipulation
    and expansion is pressure and release. Once again you have never used a pen!\r\n\r\nI
    am shaking the dust from my sandals buddy!"
  created: '2008-05-27 17:29:14'
- author:
    name: Textwrapper
    picture: 112864
  body: Thank God. The angry calligrapher moves on to adorn some other blog comment
    section with all caps.
  created: '2008-05-27 17:30:00'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Michael, Bill: As a moderator I think I see some smoke forming if not actual
    flames, so let's keep the tone a bit more chill please.\r\n\r\nDon't get me wrong,
    I am all for <cite> joie de vivre</cite> but...\r\n\r\nAs for my own view: \r\n\r\nI
    think that in the urge to make distinctions it is often the case that things are
    set out more starkly than reality offers them up to us. For instance I am recalling
    a presentation I saw at last year's TypeCon where the fine art of the touch up
    or cheat in calligraphy was celebrated. Now at some point one of us might say,
    well that's crossed the line!  That's not \"pen formed\". But really it is. Just
    not in the \"pure\" sense. My point here is that there are distinctions to make,
    and they are important/meaningful. But what you call them, and here you make them
    is significantly up to you.  \r\n\r\nAs for G Noordzij he definitely wasn't interested
    in setting out anything hard & fast, just in offering a different lens, the lens
    of his practical physical observation. This is one of the reasons I like his work
    so much. \r\n\r\nMichael, keep in mind that while you <cite> can</cite> do nearly
    anything at all with a pen; I absolutely agree, the question of what was normally
    done by scribe in the 15th/16th century while hugely broad is not nearly <cite>so</cite>
    broad.  There are distinctions to be had between that profoundly varied body of
    work and Jenson/Aldine type.\r\n\r\nNotice, also I am using cite tags to make
    italics not all caps.\r\n\r\nThe thing about the Jenson and Aldine letters are
    that they are a huge cultural touchstone. And what they did seems border on magic,
    partly because it was so influential, and partly because of the myth machines
    that have grown up around the actual work. And partly because it was a sort of
    visual genius. All this means that the urge to get in there and make your own
    interpretation is great. I should know. I am involved in that now too. But you
    have to be as skeptical and dispassionate as you can be. And show what you mean.\r\n\r\nBill,
    maybe you can show us what you mean by more even color in an example. \r\n\r\nWhat
    they did was complicated and changed over time. And just like you need to use
    a pen to get it - you need to see original Jenson & Aldine books to get a sense
    of them. \r\n\r\nAnd lastly, the simple distinctions of this is \"pen based\"
    and this is \"typographic\" and this is \"carved\" and so on are to my mind, growing
    less useful by the day. What I think would be more useful is to show the thing
    you mean, eg the visual distinction and avoid the urge to throw too much extra
    jargon over the top. Typographic and calligraphic jargon is mushy mushy stuff
    however much we may treasure it. And as such it has a wonderful use as grease
    to get conversations started - but not too much as grist with which to go deeper."
  created: '2008-05-27 17:50:59'
- author:
    name: Textwrapper
    picture: 112864
  body: "Apologies to all parties for adding heat to the fire.\r\n\r\nGood observations
    from Mr. Sorkin, and since it is possible to add illustrations to these comments,
    by all means, please do \u2014 they would help much in a discussion such as this
    one.\r\n\r\nNow all I have to do is figure out which of the tags below produces
    italics."
  created: '2008-05-27 18:32:13'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> which of the tags below produces italics</em>\r\n\r\nI use <code>&lt;em&gt;</code>."
  created: '2008-05-27 18:54:13'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: If you click on the link at the bottom of the page called "input format" it
    shows you the options.
  created: '2008-05-27 19:37:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">How dare you put those words in my mouth? \r\n\r\nMichael, this exchange
    has been disappointingly bizarre. I did not put those words in your mouth. \r\n\r\nYou
    said \"Whatever you are reading is so ridiculously wrong.\" I repeatedly said
    that I was reading Noordzij and Stone, and I kept asking you whether and where
    Noordzij had it wrong that in this period (Jenson and Griffo) writing was with
    a not very flexible broad nibbed pen held at a constant angle. \r\n\r\nYou kept
    not replying, and instead issuing tirades indicating that what I was saying  was
    ignorant and absurd. So I just repeated and emphasized that as the views I reported
    were the views of Noordzij, and you were in effect dismissing Noordzij. \r\n\r\nPerhaps
    you will now respond to my questions, but I am not optimistic. \r\n\r\nEben, I
    have been very courteous in replying to Michael, whose work I respect. He has
    responded with tirades that have annoyed at least two people. When I point out
    that in dismissing what I have been reading he is dismissing Noordzij, you seem
    to find something improper in that. I don't.   "
  created: '2008-05-27 21:27:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Bill, when you say "It seems you dismiss Noordzij as an ignoramus" it isn''t
    exactly inflammatory I suppose but it does seem like heavy rhetorical tactics.
    I am not interested in counting who is worse, or giving out black marks - just
    in encouraging all involved to  have a little break and simmer down a bit. '
  created: '2008-05-27 21:42:02'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Bill -- I believe when Michael rails against some of your points, it is not
    Noordzij that he is dismissing (not always) but rather your very literal reading
    of some of Noordzij. I believe we all know that it helps sometimes to read GN
    with a grain of salt, because he has rhetorical devices of his own.\r\n\r\nSpecifically
    in this instance, I believe there is an inherent disconnect in yours and Michael's
    discussion. When GN references the fixed-width pen, it is easy for many of us
    today to conjure an image of the stiff metal Speedball nib of our intro art classes.
    We therefore think of the fixed-width pen as \"fixed\" -- i.e., inflexible.\r\n\r\nWhen
    Michael uses the term \"quill,\" instead, I believe he is doing it deliberately,
    because the fixed-nib pen of the era in question was in fact a prepared feather,
    a quill. As such, it is actually surprisingly flexible. Not nearly as flexible,
    and not in the same ways, as the later flexible, split-nib pen of the English
    writing masters. But more flexible than one might initially imagine.\r\n\r\nSo,
    it is not accurate (historically or otherwise) to assume that a fixed-nib pen
    has no flexion, no pressure-and-release, and that any waisting or other effects
    must necessarily be built-up and not written.\r\n\r\nI'm not reading back carefully
    over your statements to double-check that I am interpreting you correctly. If
    I haven't been reading closely enough, forgive me. \r\n\r\nBut I hope this one
    observation might help bridge at least some of the gap.\r\n\r\n-- Kent.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-27 23:04:51'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I never said Noordzij was an ignoramus. At least admit that. \r\n\r\nThe
    flexible pen did not cease to exist in Jenson's time, and it existed for many
    centuries before his time. Manipulation was being practiced throughout this period.\r\n\r\nI
    said I was done if you got the Matthew reference.\r\n\r\nThank you Kent and Eben
    for your efforts. I said early on that there is more afoot than the literal reading
    of GN's book, which I actually have in the first printing.\r\n\r\nAll the best\r\nMichael\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-28 00:44:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Kent, thanks for your post. \r\n\r\nI tried, though, to characterize Noordzij's
    views accurately, not to endorse them without qualification. \r\n\r\nIn fact in
    my initial post here I said that Stone's argument meant that Noordzij's theories
    need qualification. I think Noordzij is open-minded in an unusual and to my mind
    good way. He is willing to make sweeping statements he thinks are right. But he
    invites discussion and contradiction, and welcomes it, thinking correction and
    progress will come that way. I invited Michael to explain where he disagrees with
    Noordzij--and with Stone--but he only responded with irrelevant personal attacks
    on my supposed state of abysmal ignorance.   \r\n\r\nI also qualified my statement
    about the broad pen by saying it was 'relatively' stiff. As I understand it, the
    feather quill pen cut to a relatively snub tip was much less flexible than the
    later pointed version, which was then replaced by highly flexible steel pens for
    the 'copperplate' style. \r\n\r\nI was reporting on Stone's views, which I quoted
    above. He I see was trained in calligraphy, as well as being the fine type designer
    we know. He says unequivocally that \"This conscious departure [of Jenson and
    Griffo] from scribal models was a defining moment in the history of roman type
    design.\" His view is that the characters, including serifs, of Jenson and Griffo
    depart from models of scribal pen strokes with the broad pen.  \r\n\r\nAs I said,
    I have felt the same way for some time, though with no deep study of the issue.
    That's why I was delighted to read Stone's strong case for the 'revolutionary'
    view. Now Stone and I may be wrong. But in Stone's case if he is mistaken it is
    not for lack of knowledge of calligraphy, or, it seems, of history.\r\n\r\nedit:
    I cross posted with you, John. I'll respond to your interesting post later. "
  created: '2008-05-28 01:56:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>He says that the symmetric serifs did not arise from any written
    form. It arose rather from painted and carved forms.</em>\r\n\r\nThey're serifs.
    As such they are a standard feature of the humanist bookhand. They're not something
    new, only something given an idealised treatment by making them closer to classical
    inscriptional form. Since the serif of the manuscript bookhand also owes its origin
    to the classical serif, I don't think the detail of the treatment is very significant.\r\n\r\nAgain,
    what I think we need to remain conscious of is that we're talking about a single
    text culture, with simultaneous and parallel manuscript and typographic forms.
    There's a tendency to portray print media as revolutionary and progressive, but
    I think that is basically bad history and overlooks the degree to which the material
    form of that media is well established by the manuscript tradition.\r\n\r\n<em>I
    don\u2019t want to quibble about what is \u2019fundamental\u2019 or \u2019essential\u2019,
    but what I do think is that Jenson and Griffo had a conscious goal of improving
    on their written predecessors, that they were willing to contradict the written
    models, and that they succeeded particularly in increasing readability.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    think they had a conscious goal of producing books in a format and style suitable
    to the subject matter and tastes of Italian humanism. I'm not going to guess whether
    they 'increased readability' because we don't know very much about renaissance
    reading habits, in print or manuscript. What we can say is that succeeded in making
    the standard size of text smaller than it had generally been previously, because
    that is observable.\r\n\r\n\r\nRe. Noordzij and rotation:\r\n\r\nWhen Noordzij
    writes about rotation and the stroke he is talking about writing styles based
    around rotation, which is the characteristic development of mannerist writing.
    That is, he is not talking about rotation as a phenomenon within writing but as
    a strategy that is central to a particular kind of stroke and hence to a particular
    kind of writing. Noordzij is also talking about rotation <em>in the stroke,</em>
    not rotation in the transition between strokes and not in the treatment of terminals.\r\n\r\nThere
    are three kinds of rotation that can occur during the act of writing: unconscious,
    deliberate and habitual. The importance of unconscious rotation can be demonstrated
    by having a robot write a translation based style such as the humanist bookhand
    with a broadnib pen, or using a fixed angle broad brush stroke in a computer drawing
    program. Even a strongly translation based style such as textura blackletter,
    written by a human with a handheld tool, is full of modulation caused by minor
    and largely unconscious rotation.\r\n\r\nDeliberate rotation involves consciously
    rotating the hand or arm during writing to achieve particular affects. One of
    the most obvious examples is the creation of a thin hanging terminal to a translated
    horizontal stroke or curve, e.g. at the top of an uppercase C G or S (as in the
    'SEASONINGS' example above). Note that the pen never leaves the page to create
    these forms: they are not 'built up', but are true terminals to the stroke, made
    in a continuous movement.\r\n\r\nHabitual rotation is what happens when a scribe
    has internalised deliberate rotation as a feature of writing, so that it happens
    unconsciously as he or she writes, allowing speed and confidence.\r\n\r\nWe're
    in an unfortunate situation in the West now, in that we don't have a professional
    scribal class anymore. We have calligraphers, but calligraphy is really art made
    with letters and words, not text for reading of the kind that is produced on a
    quotidian basis in a manuscript society. This makes it somewhat difficult for
    us to judge what might be possible, or not possible, in the context of a formally
    written manuscript hand, produced by an experienced professional scribe who spends
    everyday producing text in this hand.\r\n\r\nBut we do have the recent evidence
    of one of the world's last surviving major manuscript cultures, in Pakistan and
    India, where until recently many newspapers were produced by professional scribes
    in the Persian nasta'liq style of Arabic script. Now it happens that the nasta'liq
    script uses a fourth kind of stroke that Noordzij does not describe, presumably
    because it has not been a feature of European writing (although I fully expect
    that examples of it can be found in the work of European and American calligraphers,
    who have experimented with tools and techniques beyond the European scribal heritage).
    Nasta'liq is written with a broad nib reed, like other Arabic scripts, but one
    of the characteristics of the style is the systematic variation in weight between
    letters; the thinnest strokes are not achieved by either translation or rotation,
    but by lifting one corner of the nib. [If the characteristic stroke pattern of
    the European pointed split nib is called by Noordzij 'expansion', perhaps the
    stroke model of nasta'liq might be called 'contraction', because the fixed width
    of the broad nib is contracted by removing part of it from contact with the page.]
    In writing nasta'liq, the scribe must perform a number of extraordinary feats:
    writing starts above the baseline and letter clusters slope downward, so he must
    anticipate the depth of the full letter cluster as he starts to write it so as
    to end in the correct relationship to the baseline; alternating stroke weight
    is also reckoned backwards from the final letter, which is never thin, so he needs
    to determine the number of varying strokes across the letters in the cluster and
    start with the appropriate weight; as with all the major Arabic script styles,
    consistency is an expectation, so he must be able to produce the same shapes in
    exactly the same way, time after time, day after day.* And in the midst of this,
    he must perform one of the trickiest manipulations of the pen, lifting and lowering
    a corner of the nib repeatedly at just the right moments. In order to write with
    speed and confidence, all these things need to be internalised and habitual.\r\n\r\n*I
    have a splendid example of two <em>bismillah</em> in nasta'liq style written by
    the Turkish calligrapher Kemal Batanay that demonstrate the virtue of consistency:
    they are written twenty-two years apart, and are all but identical. These are
    calligraphs, of course, not scribal text, but the consistency they demonstrate
    is an expectation of the style, not of the writer. In something like newspaper
    production, there is a secondary need for consistency, because the identities
    of the different scribes should not draw attention.\r\n\r\nSo I'm wary of making
    claims about what scribes, in renaissance Italy for instance, could and could
    not do. I think one needs to look at a lot of examples and then talk about what
    they <em>chose</em> to do. The choice might well have been influenced by ease
    or efficiency, but that's something different from manual or material restriction."
  created: '2008-05-28 01:58:53'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Holy smokes John... You must be a closet lettering artist!\r\n\r\nYou know
    that scribes, calligraphers or lettering artists are all the same. The defining
    factor is the length of the text. ; ) That was a super major wink!\r\n\r\nAs to
    the pliability of current pen nibs, the feather quill is so much more \"pushable\"
    than any metal pens of any era.\r\n\r\nThink about it... cartilage vs. metal\r\n\r\nKewl
    dude!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-05-28 02:14:13'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Well William and I spent a good bit of time on the phone this evening and
    he agrees that I am opinionated, a curmudgeon and a hard person to get along with.
    Not only that but I was wrong about anything and everything, except the really
    important stuff or maybe it was everything!\r\n\r\nWe were talking at cross purposes
    which we will not tell any of you about. We have solved the world's problems and
    will have a press release on the Today show tomorrow.\r\n\r\nGood night America!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-05-28 04:45:49'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "P.S \r\n\r\nWilliam, I am sorry.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-05-28 04:53:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "As usual, Michael gets it wrong. I said not that he was a hard person to
    get along with, but a sweet guy and very interesting--on the phone! \r\n\r\nMichael
    clearly does think that historically there was a lot more going on by way of rotation
    and expansion--aka manipulation and pressure-and-release--historically than in
    Noordzij's schematic history. \r\n\r\nBut how much I am still left wondering.\r\n\r\nThe
    issue of how much Stone's essay is right or wrong relates more to what scribes
    were actually doing in the 15th century, and how different and in what way were
    Jenson and Griffo. \r\n"
  created: '2008-05-28 05:02:52'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: You don't think Griffo and Jenson had a thang goin' on do ya?
  created: '2008-05-28 05:13:14'
- author:
    name: AnHero
    picture: 115069
  body: "thi\r\nnger"
  created: '2008-05-28 06:10:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>The issue of how much Stone\u2019s essay is right or wrong relates
    more to what scribes were actually doing in the 15th century, and how different
    and in what way were Jenson and Griffo.</em>\r\n\r\nAccording to your summary
    (still no sign of the newsletter in my mailbox), one of Sumner's statements is
    that the classical form of serif could only awkwardly be made with the pen (which,
    by the way, may as often have been a reed as a quill; there is a famous portrait
    of <a href=\"http://www.abcgallery.com/H/holbein/holbein11.html\">Erasmus by Holbein</a>,
    in which he is depicted holding a reed pen). If this is accurate reporting, then
    this is at issue, even if you don't think it is the core of the matter. If this
    is at issue, then so is the notion that there is something 'critically dependent
    on the sculpting of metal' in Jenson and Griffo's innovations.\r\n\r\nI'm interested
    in the choices people made, and I'm interested in them because I think they were
    choices, not things that were materially dependent. In the case of serifs, I think
    we're looking basically the same thing, regardless of whether were looking at
    manuscript or type: inclusion in the formal text style of these classical stroke
    terminations <em>which are not a feature of any preceding post-classical writing
    style.</em> In other words, they are as fresh and innovative in the humanist bookhand
    as they are in the humanist types. But the scribes want to be able to write quickly,
    and they make the serifs semi-bracketed and as a single movement perpendicular
    to the stroke, creating an asymmetrical form. The punch cutters have time on their
    side, since they making a single form to be reproduced many times, so can more
    closely follow the classical model. But the impetus is the same in both cases:
    to incorporate a feature of classical Roman lettering into their text style.\r\n\r\nI
    think we're probably making a mistake if we try to make sense of this period in
    terms of type either copying writing or, alternatively, breaking away from writing.
    We're talking about a relatively short period during which developments in writing
    and typography were happening almost simultaneously, and both were happening in
    a very specific literary context, in which makers of books -- whether manuscript
    or print -- were looking for appropriate forms for classical works and new texts
    inspired by encounter with those works."
  created: '2008-05-28 07:43:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, you raise some interesting questions in your comment. \r\n\r\nFirst,
    what Stone actually says about the attempts at Imperial majuscules later in the
    century is: \"if they are viewed as attempts at a faithful rendering of the inscribed
    Imperial forms we must judge them to be noble attempts, but in the end rather
    crude approximations [illustration]. ...The use of the file and graver combined
    with a considerably slower pace ...allowed the punch cutter to craft forms which
    imitated the original inscriptional letters more accurately...\"\r\n\r\nHe doesn't
    go into what was a limitation of the pen, of necessary speed of the scribe, etc.
    \r\n\r\nBut what I do think is worth mentioning here, and I suspect from what
    he writes that he would agree, is that the tradition in letters was not only a
    matter of pen writing by scribes. There was also a tradition of painted and stone
    incised letters. This I think is a point made by James Mosley with regard to the
    evolution of the sans serif:  the sans came first with sign painters. \r\n\r\nThat's
    one reason to think that Noordzij's schematic history of the control of type forms
    by 'the stroke' of the pen leaves out something important. Here what we see is
    the imitation of forms that likely evolved out of a display type with different
    different practical and aesthetic demands than the text letters of scribes. \r\n\r\nAs
    to what extent they thought they were breaking away from writing, I would guess
    that three things were going on. \r\n\r\nOne is that they wanted to capture the
    aesthetic of the Imperial Caps, with their great dignity and elegance. And they
    knew that they were not from any scribal hand that they knew about, though contemporary
    scribes were then trying to imitate them. \r\n\r\nThe other thing that was going
    on is that they felt, perhaps from the Roman incised models, that a different
    and superior look could be achieve by altering weights and connections from the
    normal pen forms. Whether they where thinking at first in terms of aesthetics
    only, or readability as well, I don't know. But I do think they clearly knew they
    were not imitating writing, as I'm sure they could all write those formal hands,
    and knew their pen formed shapes intimately. \r\n\r\nFinally, as Peter Enneson
    argued in the other thread, once they started doing type, with its uniform repetition
    of shapes, issues of what modifications enhance readability, especially at small
    sizes, would have been thrust upon them, as we know from designing type ourselves.
    As Peter pointed out, if I remember rightly, the natural variability of hand writing
    doesn't push forward issues of evenness of color in the same way as 26 endlessly
    repeated letter forms.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-29 02:27:09'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "William, I wish you would rely more on your own observations of the visual
    evidence, and less on the great words of others. \r\n\r\nTo me this seems obvious:
    There isn't (and wasn't) a hard, binary distinction between brush, chisel-pen
    and other kinds of letters. As John points out, scribes, stonecarvers, and punchcutters
    all had choices about how to shape their letters. Various scribal styles emphasized
    certain features; Uncials were highly rounded with a flat pen angle (yet not a
    constant, fixed angle), Capitalis Quadrata was much like the inscriptional roman,
    but pen-written. Maybe not in very lengthy texts, but then again, very much developed
    as a repeatable, scribal hand. The serifs which appear in the now-eroded inscriptions
    as \"sculptural\" may indeed have been outgrowths of a highly developed scribal
    tradition. Where did those brush-written caps come from? They didn't appear magically
    without precedent. These inscriptions aren't divorced from this scribal tradition
    if the tool making the strokes happens to be a brush. The brush can have a chisel
    point. We also don't know for sure that it was a brush. The smoking brushes have
    not been found. Maybe it was a big wide wooden chisel dip pen. Those Trajan caps
    exhibit a cornucopia of pen tricks. \r\n\r\nThe rustic capitals do indeed involve
    pen rotation; nearly any style of calligraphy/script/lettering will require pen
    modulation and/or rotation. Get clearer examples so these details can be discerned.
    Look at uncials, quadrata, rustic caps, textura, fraktur, etc. Even better would
    be to try to imitate great historic examples of them. Not easy getting those shapes
    just holding the pen at one angle is it? Certain styles demand it, others not
    at all. But it's the chosen style that dictates, not the tool. \r\n\r\nNote that
    all these can be written (yes, like handwriting) using either a soft goose quill,
    a metal calligraphy nib, a fountain pen, and any number of other tools; since
    it isn't the tool driving the style, stroke angle, pen rotation or stroke widths
    (see John's discussion of Nastaliq, and even more, <strong>look</strong> at some
    Nastaliq writing), it must have been the writer's choice that determined those
    shapes and the appearance of the writing. \r\n\r\nThe tools don't enforce any
    kind of stylistic choices, certainly not pens of various materials or brushes.
    it's the tools and materials of typefounding that we can regard as comparatively
    restrictive, and yet still a great spectrum of choices was available to early
    typefounders. From Gutenberg to Griffo we see this. They could choose to mimic
    scribal forms, which some of them clearly did, and they could choose to idealize
    or abstract scribal forms, which some also did. "
  created: '2008-05-30 00:13:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Carl, I don't have calligraphy experience, but I do use my eyes. I am generally
    fascinated with history of ideas and innovations, and my eyes tell me that Jenson
    and Griffo made an important advance. But what exactly the advance was, and how
    it came about is not so obvious. That's why I've read with interest others who
    have studied this. I'm not relying on them alone, but I'm trying to learn from
    them.    \r\n\r\n>tools don't enforce any kind of stylistic choices, certainly
    not pens of various materials or brushes.\r\n\r\nI don't really agree with the
    thrust of your argument, even though your statement here is probably strictly
    speaking correct: there is no strict \"enforcement\" of a style. Enforcement,
    no, but influence, even big influence, yes. \r\n\r\nMy eyes and experience do
    tell me that tools often have a big affect on style. If you are building with
    stone or wood it makes a difference how the structure is built, even though in
    theory you can make one look more like the other. The styles of building that
    evolve from one building material and another tend to be distinctive. \r\n\r\nIn
    the area of writing, when I visited China I saw the influence of the brush vs
    the pen quite dramatically. I saw hand painted signs all over the place. They
    were always competent, and often quite well done. The reason is that writing characters
    with the pointed brush is a traditionally important part of education in China--it
    goes together with brush painting. But when Roman characters were written with
    the pointed brush they almost always looked awkward and even childish. The pointed
    brush just doesn't lend itself very well to writing Roman, which is mainly influenced
    by the broad pen. And the writers just didn't know 'pen rules' well enough to
    make the pointed brush to do what would indeed be quite difficult to do with it
    anyway. \r\n\r\nSo I do think that tools have an important impact on writing style.
    How much of a role they played here, I am not clear, but I tend to think from
    Stone's illustrations that the use of brush painting and/or stone carving did
    have some influence. "
  created: '2008-05-30 04:35:07'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "My copy of the <em>Letterspace</em> newsletter arrived today, and I have
    read Sumner's article twice but want to read it a few more times before writing
    in response to it. I want to try to be very clear about how I agree with his analysis
    while still thinking that he overstates his conclusion.\r\n\r\nIn the meantime,
    here is something else I read today, from Gerard Unger's recent little pamphlet
    <em>Typografiw als voertuig van de wetenschap</em> (in Dutch and English):\r\n\r\n<cite>Letters
    and the ways in which they work together as words and texts have taken on their
    shapes in the hands and minds of sculptors, writers, and typographers essentially
    on the basis of ergonomic concerns. Prior to the development of typography, the
    shapes of letters and the basics of typography were largely fixed already in manuscripts.
    This pertains to type areas, type sizes, interlinear spaces, and many other conventions.
    During the subsequent period covering over five centuries the typographic system
    has been further refined and enriched.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis encapsulates nicely
    the context in which I believe the development of typography should be viewed:
    as part of a much larger and longer engagement between text and reader, in which
    the innovations of typography present media-specific refinements, but not revolutionary
    developments or \u2018progress\u2019. In a note to this paragraph, Gerard directs
    us back to J.P. Gumbert's essay \u2018\u201CTypography\u201D in the manuscript
    book\u2019, in <em>The Journal of the Printing Historical Society</em> No.22 (1993)*\r\n\r\n*This,
    to my mind, is a prize volume of this series, since it contains not only Gumbert's
    fine essay but also Peggy Smith's excellent work on \u2018The pre-history of \u201CSmall
    Caps\u201D\u2019.\r\n\r\n\r\nMore in a couple of days..."
  created: '2008-05-30 05:56:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Compared with what came before, typography was a very indirect way of making
    words.\r\nSo a design space was opened up between punchcutter and printer, in
    which was considered how delicate shapes made in metal matrices morphed into smudges
    of ink on paper.\r\nIn this design space it became apparent that the shapes of
    the smudges were to a large extent independent of the qualities of the tools previously
    used to make writing or lettering, and dependent more on the way that punchcut
    forms morphed during the founding process, and subsequently the way that the ink
    shapes that were created on the surface of type further morphed when pressed into
    paper.\r\nSo what happened AFTER the punchcutter \"sculpted\" the letters in metal
    was the primary consideration.\r\nWhat punchcut shapes would eventually produce
    the most legible, most readable pages?\r\nThe punchcutter/engraver could imitate
    the characteristic letter forms of pen and brush (as John notes, fast writing)
    , chisel, and even the punchcut lettering of goldsmiths.\r\nAnd he could also
    make new forms specifically geared to optimize printed text.\r\nSo type making
    emerged as a synthetic skill, dependent on the punchcutter's execution certainly,
    but also with a strong element of design, creating a tool for another, the printer,
    to use.  \r\n\r\nIn a way, the process may be likened to the (hypothetical) job
    segregation of lapidary lettering, with one person lettering by brush, for another
    to carve. \r\n\r\nThe scultping of metal isn't particularly relevant, any more
    than the sculpting that occurs when the scribe trims his quill. Both are making
    the tool that makes the letters."
  created: '2008-05-30 07:26:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The most significant way in which design came to the fore in typography was
    in meeting the demands of a modular system of shapes, in which each letter form
    was required to fit nicely with every other, without the luxury available to scribes
    of contextual adjustment. This is particularly evident in Jenson's serif shapes,
    for instance the way the ear of his r fits against the following n, a, and v.
    \r\n\r\nThat modularity was a defining issue is even more apparent in the work
    of other Venetians, such as Lauer, who practically did away with serifs on the
    outside of letters, to better allow them to combine, in the phrase of Fred Smeijers,
    \"like children's blocks\". \r\n\r\nMany of Jenson's letters, while ostensibly
    having the smack of chirography, are in fact almost impossible to duplicate with
    a pen--abrupt stroke weight transitions that defy adjustments of rotation and
    pressure. The main curve of his p is particularly mysterious in this respect,
    of chirographic origin in its angled stress, but at the same time anti-chirographic.
    (This may be seen in comparing Bruce Rogers' working drawings of Centaur, which
    play up the scribal quality of the type, against the original.) "
  created: '2008-05-30 08:55:10'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Nick, would you put comments on this p please? Then I can better see what
    you mean. My initial take on what you are saying has to do with the fact that
    the round part of the does not narrow at the lower right as much as you would
    expect it to with a straight forward ductal model. Is that what you mean?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/ebensorkin/2460450283/in/set-72157604858114211/\r\n\r\nor
    this one\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/ebensorkin/2461284238/in/set-72157604858114211/\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-30 09:37:45'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: BTW - How would I get a copy of Letterspace? I have not had time to research
    into the question this week.
  created: '2008-05-30 09:38:56'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>BTW - How would I get a copy of Letterspace? I have not had time to
    research into the question this week.</cite>\r\n\r\nEben, \r\n\r\nCall Carol Wahler
    at the TDC office and ask if she can send you one. Whether you join the club or
    not I'm sure she'll send you a copy. But joining the club would be a nice way
    to guarantee it. And then there is the TYpography annual that comes with your
    membership as well. (Not to mention the discounted entry and hanging fees, when
    you decide to enter the competition).\r\n\r\nI'm currently out of town, otherwise
    I'd be happy to send you my copy and pick up another at the TDC office.\r\n\r\nJamesM\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-30 10:28:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, Unger's quote does highlight the fact that so much about text was already
    in place because of long scribal tradition. As I have already agreed with you,
    much in type is derived from past writing. The question is what was new in the
    creation of roman type, and how new it was. \r\n\r\nI am not clear what Unger
    means by 'ergonomic' in this context. Is this about ease of writing or ease of
    reading? At one of the TDC events a calligrapher pointed out to me that it is
    easier to write with slanted stems, but easier to read with vertical ones. --And
    that was one of the changes to the lower case by Jenson and Griffo. \r\n\r\nNick,
    thanks for the insights on the changes of Jenson. Peter Enneson brought up in
    the other thread about how repetition of characters changed the challenge to type
    designers. I really like your term 'modularity', which captures the essence of
    the challenge. It includes both the repetition of identical characters, and that
    each must fit with every other character.  \r\n\r\nYou are no doubt right that
    the letter fitting demanded by modularity influenced letter forms. But I think
    that also evenness of color was, as Peter argued, pushed forward as a problem
    by modularity. Also readability at small size was another factor, as I argued
    in the earlier thread--and John agreed with me on that one.  "
  created: '2008-05-30 16:23:08'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Thanks James!
  created: '2008-05-30 17:26:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pen_5931.jpg]\r\nHere's what I mean by
    Jenson being \"anti-chirographic\".\r\nConsider the nib angle at the top left
    joint (the start of the main curve) in these three letters.\r\nIn the p it's almost
    horizontal, in the n has more of a slant, and in the h is almost 45\xB0.\r\nThis
    creates an unevenness, with three curves that have different entry angles and
    tightness (i.e. length of radius).\r\nIt differentiates the underlying shapes
    of these three letters, rather than repeating any consistency that would be caused
    by straightforward writing, or a reductive design approach that would emphasize
    geometrical similarities in the shape of the curve. \r\nSo why does such a disruptive
    effect work in type?\r\nBecause of the subtle adjustments with which the variety
    of serif shapes and stroke weights counteract the variety of curve shapes and
    angles of stress, within the context of even colour. For instance, note how the
    counter of the h is wider than the counter of the n, to accomodate the extra weight
    of the upward diagonal which intrudes into the internal area. \r\n"
  created: '2008-05-30 19:44:07'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nWood, stone, metal are materials that buildings are made out
    of; the building <strong>is</strong> the material. Printing, writing and calligraphy
    are all traces of the movement or application of unseen tools. Quite different.\r\n\r\nWriters,
    lettering artists and signpainters in China may not fare well in producing latin
    letterforms because those shapes are foreign, unfamiliar and uncomfortable for
    them, not because brushes intrinsically cannot produce them. Look at brush lettering
    from Latin-speaking countries. Similarly, an American signpainter will have a
    hard time producing Chinese characters even using a traditional brush. It's not
    the tool in your example that limits, it's the writer's inexperience with the
    forms. I think you are seeing a causality that is not there. \r\n\r\nYou discuss
    dualities like pen <strong>or</strong> built-up, scribal <strong>or</strong> sculpted,
    and I fear there is a disconnect between what you have read, and the actual, material
    processes being discussed. "
  created: '2008-05-30 20:48:18'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> The serifs which appear in the now-eroded inscriptions as \u201Csculptural\u201D
    may indeed have been outgrowths of a highly developed scribal tradition. </em>\r\n\r\nJames
    Mosley posted a relevant [[http://typefoundry.blogspot.com/2008/05/roman-tragedy.html|blog
    entry]] today."
  created: '2008-05-30 21:43:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Carl, it is true that wood and stone are building materials rather than tools,
    so the analogy is inexact, though I think the point is right. \r\n\r\nThe pointed
    brush, which I also mentioned, is, however right on point, and I think you are
    mistaken about the capabilities and limitations of the stiff broad pen vs the
    limitations of the pointed brush. I have had both in my hands, and they are extremely
    different animals. \r\n\r\nThe pointed brush is great at doing extreme expansion
    and contraction of the stroke, but is unaffected as to direction, as it is round.
    The stiff broad pen held at constant angle varies width with the direction of
    the stroke, but is quite limited in expansion and contraction. I think even a
    very good calligrapher who was skilled in both instruments would be very hard
    put to reproduce the stroke of the other instrument. The pointed brush might do
    it with extreme skill and knowledge of roman lettering, but some build up would
    be necessary, I think. To get Chinese brush strokes with a pen would be nearly
    impossible, I think. I mean without doing build-up, of course. The 'ductus' of
    these two writing instruments is just extremely different. \r\n\r\nTrying to do
    roman calligraphy with a Chinese pointed brush or Chinese brush style letters
    with broad pen would be basically an exercise in frustration. (There are other
    styles of Chinese characters influenced by other tools, but that is a different
    matter.)\r\n\r\nA broad brush is, of course, much closer to the pen than is the
    round, pointed brush. \r\n"
  created: '2008-05-30 22:31:03'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Nobody is saying that the two instruments don''t have different qualities,
    tendencies etc. What they are saying is that even with these fully intact, acknowledged
    and so on, you still can''t rule out a clever knowledgable user pushing past this
    tool oriented envelope. And pushing very very far. This ability to push past the
    tool''s tendency blurs things considerably. Now if it blurs things to the point
    that Stone''s point ( at least as presented by yourself - I will read the article
    as soon as I can - it is on it''s way now - this is not a dig) is weakened just
    a little or quite a lot is a judgement call. But until you acknowledge this envelope
    pushing is the issue - not the inherent qualities of the tools ( potent though
    they may be ), we will go around & around.     '
  created: '2008-05-30 22:56:54'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"The pointed brush, which I also mentioned, is, however right on point,
    and I think you are mistaken about the capabilities and limitations of the stiff
    broad pen vs the limitations of the pointed brush. I have had both in my hands,
    and they are extremely different animals.\"\r\n\r\nBill, I'm not at all mistaken
    about the capabilities of various tools. I've made and used goose quill pens,
    reed pens, bamboo pens, cardboard, plastic and metal pens. I've also made and
    used various brushes, with various lengths, shapes and stiffnesses. Not to mention
    cut stone, metal and wood letters. It's my lifelong familiarity with these materials
    and with the processes behind scribal production and typefounding that make me
    skeptical of your theories. \r\n\r\n\"He says that the symmetric serifs did not
    arise from any written form. It arose rather from painted and carved forms.\"\r\n\r\nThis
    must be the source of your insistence on treating the various tools as oppositional,
    exclusionary. That alone tells me that you need to read less, and fiddle with
    materials more. "
  created: '2008-05-30 23:06:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">This ability to push past the tool\u2019s tendency blurs things considerably.\r\n\r\nEben,
    I think you are missing the point here. The point is that craftsmen are influenced
    by their instruments. With enough practice you can scratch your right ear with
    your left foot, but chances you're going to your right hand. The question is not
    what people could conceivably do, but what they actually did. \r\n\r\nThe shape
    of the Chinese characters was influenced by the fact that they were written with
    a brush. When they were scraped on bones they looked quite different--the \"seal
    style\". And when they were carved in wood they looked somewhat different again.
    \r\n\r\nAre you telling me that these obvious and systematic differences are just
    accidentally related to the writing medium?\r\n\r\nSimilarly, the shape of Roman
    letters has been influenced by the tool they were written with for thousands of
    years, the broad pen. Are you denying this?\r\n\r\nIf not, then the question is
    whether people using brushes and chisels to do inscriptional letters influenced
    the shape of the Imperial capitals. \r\n\r\nIt seems to me a pretty reasonable
    question, and Stone's answer is 'yes'. \r\n\r\nWhy do you think that his answer
    is wrong? What is your story of why the carved capitals show a different pattern
    from any surviving ancient written capitals--but rather more similarity with the
    painted caps that survived Vesuvius, as shown in James Mosley's blog--thanks Craig
    for the \"heads up\" on this interesting post. "
  created: '2008-05-30 23:28:39'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Are you denying this?  ... Are you telling me that these obvious and
    systematic differences are just accidentally related to the writing medium? </cite>\r\n\r\nNot
    at all. I mean: not so much as an iota. I get that idea. I support it, believe
    it, and am frankly, quite deeply impressed by it. As are we all from what I have
    read here.\r\n\r\nBut look at the chinese brush: chinese glyphs require nothing
    so much as being built up; albeit in a special way only possible with that brush.
    These is absolutely no way that you can make a formal chinese character without
    some expert tweaking - eg the reverses and lifts required. Again, I am in no way
    stating that any other tool could make chinese characters the way the chinese
    brush does. I am saying something different. I am saying that the brush is far
    from being the only factor in the shapes that are made with it. A calligraphic
    culture is at work there. Think too of the enormous array of styles that the chinese
    brush is used to make. Far larger than with any other calligraphic tool I would
    say.  So it isn't a single character or direction or fate that the chinese bush
    offers. Not at all, instead it offers a profound flexibility - and I would say
    a profound need for envelope pushing. You could try coming back with talk about
    the running hand style but I don't know that I can believe that it's all brush
    logic there either.\r\n\r\nSo back to the latin. Nobody, as I said before, is
    trying to deny that the tool/medium is powerful. What they are saying though is
    that it is not *all* powerful and utterly determanistic. And in that wiggle room
    there is room to question your assertion.\r\n\r\nNow it's my turn, surely you
    are not denying that an expert letter maker can and will often go past the simple
    'logical envelope' of his tool..."
  created: '2008-05-31 03:51:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">chinese glyphs require nothing so much as being built up\r\n\r\nThis is
    not correct, if by 'built up' you use the term the way Noordzij and others do.
    Each stroke is done as a continuous movement of the brush. It is not built up
    of many strokes to fill in an outline, mental or drawn. Of course there are many
    strokes usually in a single character, but they are clearly separate. In fact,
    the Chinese dictionary is partly arranged by number of strokes, showing how clear
    and fixed this is--both the number and order, by the way. \r\n\r\n>surely you
    are not denying that an expert letter maker can and will often go past the simple
    \u2019logical envelope\u2019 of his tool...\r\n\r\nYes, I am denying that if you
    are talking about scribes. They have a priority on producing a lot of text, and
    cannot take time to do something that is unnatural to the tool and highly time
    consuming. \r\n\r\nIf you are talking about an illuminated cap, then yes, they
    had time to build up an elaborate picture that may involve build up and a lot
    of manipulation. They may well have done that with pen, though I don't know. My
    impression is that brush work was also used. "
  created: '2008-05-31 18:53:14'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Of course there are many strokes usually in characters, but they are
    clearly separate. </cite>\r\n\r\nYes, clearly. But that is once again, not to
    the point. The point is to look at an individual stroke. If you do, you will see
    that even the simplest most basic stroke in chinese the horizontal one for \"1\"
    requires several culture specific, envelope pushing moves to complete it. \r\n\r\nOne,
    you have to press down the right amount to form the initial head of the \"bone\".
    then, two you must lift the right amount. So far that's two manipulations outside
    the tool's basic envelope. Then you change direction twice ( not outside the envelope
    ) but you must also change pressure which is a manipulation or outside the envelope.
    Three. Then you join the reverse carefully so as to hide what has happened. Hiding
    the stroke is the most obvious and hallmark quality of being \"outside the envelope\".
    That's 4 culture specific, envelope pushing moves. \r\n\r\nIf you want to use
    architectural analogies then I think the urge to hide how something is made with
    trim to cover nails or bolts etc. vs. letting the bolts be seen is the better
    comparison. But even that fails to take up the equally salient manipulations that
    are not hidden per se but which are nonetheless clearly manipulations and not
    part of the simple tool logic.\r\n\r\n<cite> to do something that is unnatural
    to the tool and highly time consuming </cite>\r\n\r\nNot if it becomes habit.
    Cultural habits are very powerful. In fact, look at Chinese & Japanese running
    hand. When it's good, it is really incredible. A tour de force really. But of
    what? Tool logic? Not at all! It's a tour de force of manipulation. And the whole
    point is what? Speed and expression. The same can be true of arabic, armenian,
    latin, or any other system. If it exists in writing depends not on the tool but
    on the scribe.\r\n\r\nDon't get me wrong. There were plenty of so-so scribes too.
    I have seen their work. In it you can see plenty of tool logic. But it's not all
    that there was all the time, even in longer texts.\r\n\r\n<cite>Yes, I am denying
    that if you are talking about scribes.</cite> It is true that you can do something
    just passable in latin writing without manipulation. Whereas in Chinese you have
    no hope whatsoever. That is a real difference. But I don't think you will find
    a single scribal page that has no manipulations in it even if they are angle lapses
    or unintentional. People are not machines. So manipulation can't be gotten rid
    of. Reality is not so pure as your idea. Influence is not destiny. This is a thing
    is grey.\r\n\r\n<cite> Why do you think that his answer is wrong?</cite>\r\nI
    don't. I haven't read Stone's piece. I am responding only to your ideas, and some
    some extent to your representation of Stone's ideas so far. I might agree with
    Stone. It's hard to say. The point is that there is some grayness here. Some blur.
    The role of manipulation is what causes it. But the point is, if I agree or disagree
    it won't be some kind of black or white thing. It will a judgement call over a
    complex phenomena. My agreement or disagreement will accordingly be not absolute.
    It will be grey.\r\n\r\nThe reason I have disagreed with you as strongly in your
    thread as I have has to do with what I read as a pretty absolute notion on your
    part. It isn't that what you are saying isn't true. Far from it! It just isn't
    the whole story. And that is even before anybody talks about punches and lead
    etc. Even before we talk about what sudden means. In short, this thing is grey.\r\n\r\nIn
    any event, there is a certain hubris in trying to convince you when John Hudson
    and Carl Crossgrove have not. So I will cease and desist. You can put me down
    as officially shrugging my shoulders. And most especially until I have read Stone's
    article."
  created: '2008-05-31 20:15:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>They have a priority on producing a lot of text, and cannot take time
    to do something that is unnatural to the tool and highly time consuming.</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    as John said earlier, it's a question of speed.\r\nIf you're writing briskly,
    you don't have time to rotate the nib (which may result in reverting to a slightly
    different basic angle--and a sudden change of even a fraction of a degree would
    look bad), although there is time to do a little serif-like  jiggle at the beginning
    and end of strokes, as Poggio did here:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Humanistica_5717.jpg]\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-31 20:18:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">One, you have to press down the right amount to form the initial head of
    the \u201Cbone\u201D. then, two you must lift the right amount. So far that\u2019s
    two manipulations outside the tool\u2019s basic envelope.\r\n\r\nEben, it's not
    at all \"outside the envelope\" of what is natural to the brush. I really don't
    see how you can say that the first thing every Chinese child is taught in brush
    writing is \"outside the envelope.\" It is one of the I think seven or eight strokes
    that all Chinese characters are made of. \r\n\r\nIf you look at [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=noBlKOw4OhA&feature=related|this
    video]] you will see two things. \r\n\r\nFirst the word \"happiness\" written
    with the round brush by a skilled Chinese calligrapher looks very clumsy, as I
    mentioned earlier is typical, as pen rules are violated. \r\n\r\nSecond, the writing
    of the first Chinese \"Happiness\" character begins with the \"bone\" stroke you
    write of, and is written like lightning, effortlessly with a flick of the brush.
    It is not some strain unnatural to the brush. The brush, being soft, has huge
    expansion and contraction natural to it. It does take a lot of practice to gain
    control of that expansion and contraction, but that is true whatever you want
    to do with a round brush. The bone stroke is not particularly more difficult than
    any other to gain control of. \r\n\r\nThe running 'grass script' or cursive, also
    done with a brush I don't see also violating the nature of the brush. None of
    it that I have seen done with the brush looks like the results of a pen or a chisel.
    \ "
  created: '2008-05-31 20:57:23'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I'm sorry to be a johnny-come-lately to this thread.\r\n\r\nHere is how I
    see the development I'm presuming Sumner seeks to narrate.\r\n\r\nAs a protoypical
    entity the serif is an arifact of the entrance and exit strokes of formal writing.
    Type designers from Jenson and Griffo on use it's inscriptional manifestations
    in the Roman Inscriptional Capital as exemplars for their typographical fillings
    of the serif role.\r\n\r\nThe question: is what does this development signify?\r\n\r\nIs
    it fair to say it is a break with scribal tradition, or is it rather a break with
    the more literal paraphrase of scribal exemplars characterizing the work of their
    illustrious type design predecessors? Substituting instead an inscriptional paraphrase
    of an even earlier scribal tradition, mediated perhaps by the broad stiff brush,
    but formalized in sculptural terms beyond it. Even scribal tradition can be said
    to paraphrase when it sets out to adapt the form of the Roman inscriptional majuscule
    to the carolinian miniscule.\r\n\r\nIf his title is any indication, Sumner\u2019s
    suggestion seems to be that the break away from literal paraphrase signifies a
    mental shift. This I can accept.\r\n\r\nI think Nick's comment about matrix making
    opening up a space is essential, and John's explorations of the force of the terms
    <em>fundamental</em> and <em>critically dependant</em> are very apt.\r\n\r\nNoordzij's
    point is not a point about literal paraphrase but shape paradigms for contrast
    styling and construction. The contrast schemes and construction schemes imposed
    by writing with the broad-nibbed and later the straight pen remain fundamental
    in a paradigm-setting sense. In this sense a critical dependance on writing persists.
    [adding just after the fact] That a scultptural sensibility and a more acute awareness
    of the active significance and formal logic of negative space becomes apparent
    doesn't undermine this critical dependance."
  created: '2008-06-01 14:55:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Peter, in your post you don't mention the subtle changes in weights and connections,
    as well as increased formality (verticality) that Stone mentions (quoted above).
    To me these are even more telling of a \"mental shift\", which you say you can
    agree with Stone on. Using Imperial style serifs is only one of the features.
    \r\n\r\nThe historical point here, which I think some taking issue with Stone
    reject, is that the Imperial caps, done with brush and chisel, already showed
    a different approach than the pen written forms. These media, used with many fewer
    and also bigger letters had the freedom that the scribe didn't have. And they
    altered the pen-natural weights, size and shape of serifs and connections to suit
    their aesthetic sensibilities. And that freedom was reborn in the punch cutting
    medium. That's the new historical insight I found in Stone's analysis. \r\n\r\nNick
    didn't use the word \"matrix\"; are you speaking of his point that the \"modularity\"
    of type had a crucial affect on the designer?  This was, as I mentioned, similar
    to a point you made in the earlier thread. I do think it is a second critical
    factor in the new approach to letters of Jenson and Griffo. "
  created: '2008-06-01 16:20:40'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>Nick didn\u2019t use the word \u201Cmatrix\u201D</em>\r\n\r\n(He used
    \"matrices\" in the -29.May.2008 11.26pm- post.)"
  created: '2008-06-01 17:34:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The matrix is implicit when speaking of punchcutting.\r\nI quoted Fred Smeijers,
    from his excellent book on the origins of type design, <em>Counterpunch.</em>
    (Hyphen, 1996)\r\nHe mentions the broad reasons for the emergence of a synthetic
    typographic style of serif, but his main thesis concerns the role of the counterpunch.
    So, very \"sculptural,\" with the paradigmatic tool of the text medium changing
    from being a mark maker to a space maker.\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-01 17:55:00'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Bill, my suggestion is that the break Sumner documents is <em><strong>not</em></strong>
    <strong>fundamentally</strong> <em><strong>away</em></strong> from writing in
    the scribal tradition. A contrast scheme that it imposed remained in place and
    persists into the digital present.\r\n\r\nRather, the break is away from the earlier
    more literal paraphrase in type design of scribal exemplars. The development is
    augmentative, not radically transformative. The contrast scheme introduced by
    scribal writing persists but changes in weights and connections as well as increased
    formality are introduced, sometimes on the basis of historical precedents. The
    basic letterform is still critically dependant on writing in the scribal tradition.
    Nevertheless, the shift from strict paraphrase to feature-manipulative exploration
    atop a received contrast styling template is decisive \u2014 the flesh and blood
    of type design."
  created: '2008-06-01 19:44:54'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> The development is augmentative, not radically transformative....
    Nevertheless, the shift from strict paraphrase to feature-manipulative exploration
    atop a received contrast styling template is decisive \u2014 the flesh and blood
    of type design.</cite>\r\n\r\nReally well put."
  created: '2008-06-01 20:44:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">matrices\r\nSorry, I did a search on 'matrix' didn't find it. Now I see
    that Nick was talking about the metal \"mats,\" the copper strips that had the
    punch driven into them. Yes, that makes sense. And I agree with you (and Smeijers)\r\n\r\n>The
    development is not fundamentally away ...is augmentative, not radically transformative.
    \r\n\r\nAgain, I don't want to argue about 'radical' which is hard to be clear
    about. But the change was, I think transformative, in the sense that it was conceptually
    significantly different than letter forms derived from writing with a pen.\r\n\r\n>The
    contrast scheme introduced by scribal writing persists \r\n\r\nThat's what is
    mistaken, in my view. \r\n\r\nHere is an illustration of \"pen rules\" on an \"A\":
    the thick-thin that results from a broad pen with no rotation or expansion. \r\n.\r\n
    [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Pen rules_3816.gif]\r\n.\r\n\r\nNow look at
    the amazing painted letters buried at Vesuvius, posted by James Mosley on his
    blog. \r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Mosley Painted Letters_3796.gif]\r\n.\r\nNow
    notice how the pen rules are systematically changed, and the contrast pattern
    changed. The weight of the right diagonal of the A is the same as the bottom of
    the stem of the T. Pen rules would make it thicker. Note the cross bar of the
    A. It should be thicker than the left diagonal of the A following pen rules--it's
    significantly thinner. But notice the graceful top of the T--it is thicker than
    all the other horizontals, violating the rules again. The diagonal of the R is,
    again, about the weight of the stem, not significantly thicker in its cross section,
    as it would be under pen rules. \r\n\r\n\r\nThis argues strongly, as Stone has
    written, that Jenson and Griffo were picking up a different way of looking at
    letters that comes not from directly from the pen, but from a significantly different
    tradition going back to antiquity, and derived from painted and carved letters. "
  created: '2008-06-01 21:48:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, you're example doesn't support the Stone thesis.\r\nConsider blackletter,
    and in particular the <em>textus precissus</em> style (with horizontal stem terminals
    on the lower case).\r\nRatdolt's specimen shows this (in fact, most of his fonts
    were blackletter or rotunda, not humanist: most incunabula printing was blackletter).\r\nTo
    repeat, the more formal and slower the writing, the more scribes were inclined
    to invest time in pen rotation.\r\n\r\nThis shows a typical <em>rotunda</em> hand
    with some lowercase vertical stems that have flat tops and bottoms:\r\nhttp://www.umilta.net/fege27.jpg\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-01 22:06:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, you're writing about the running text in black, not the illuminated
    caps, right?\r\n\r\nHow does the running text violate 'pen rules'? It looks to
    me similar to the illustrations by Noordzij of pen-made serifs on black letter,
    made without rotating the pen (in both the Stroke and Letterletter). The thick-thin
    patterns seem consistently following pen rules--thin lower left to upper right
    strokes, medium horizontals, heaviest, top left to bottom right diagonals, etc.
    Perhaps you could circle or highlight where you think rotation occurs. Some of
    the hair lines curve, but I am assuming that is drawing the pen barely touching
    the paper, right? \r\n\r\nIn the Vesuvius letters, advantage is taken of the brush
    not only to rotate a lot between strokes, but swell the stems, do sharp serifs
    (as pointed out by Stone), and the whole thing is upright, not slanted. Strokes,
    eg of the swelled stems, may be built up as well--I don't know. I'd like to hear
    a sign painter like John Downer talk about how the Vesuvius painted letters were
    done. \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2008-06-01 22:56:01'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Bill, are the Vesuvian painted letters you show part of Sumner's argument?\r\n\r\nI'm
    not clear about what's Bill and what's Sumner in what you write."
  created: '2008-06-02 03:08:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Peter, in the beginning I tried to report accurately on Stone's article,
    and quoted some bits. \r\n\r\nIn the course of the discussion I've added some
    of my own views, but tried to make clear when I was adding, or refering to Stone
    or Noordzij's views. \r\n\r\nThe Vesuvian letters are not in Stone's presentation,
    though he refers to the Imperial letters as laid out \"by a flexible flat brush\"
    followed by carving. I thought the graphic of the painted letters posted by James
    Mosley made the case even more strongly than the carved letters he shows, or those
    on the Trajan Column, which tend to have less thick-thin contrast than these painted
    letters, if I'm not mistaken. \r\n\r\nAs I quoted earlier Stone argues that \"Although
    the overall impression of the Imperial forms is that they were made with an edged
    tool, the details, like the serifs and the subtle changes in the weights and connections
    of strokes clearly distinguish these stately letters from pen-written manuscript
    forms.\"\r\n\r\nMy analysis of the differences between pen rules and the painted
    letters is intended to elucidate Stone's point--using an illustration he doesn't
    use--about the subtle changes  in the Imperial letters that none the less show
    a conceptual difference from pen written letter forms. I could have taken a picture
    of inscribed letters, but I think the painted are even clearer. "
  created: '2008-06-02 04:10:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, as I understand it, a letter such as the lower case l (in the music
    sample I referenced) was made with a combination of rotation and pressure adjustment.\r\nIt
    starts off at the top with the nib parallel to the baseline, but the pressure
    is not as great as those letters which begin with an angled stroke, therefore
    the width of the stroke is not as thick as it would be with the pen held at an
    angle and heavier pressure.\r\nAt the bottom of the main stroke, the pen was rotated
    to the standard angle to finish the letter.\r\n\r\nOn the crossbar of the t, which
    ends with the terminal vertical, the pen was rotated from the standard angle to
    vertical, and eased up at the same time.\r\n\r\nHowever, I could be wrong about
    this, perhaps the scribe used a different technique, perhaps even two pens of
    different nib width.\r\n\r\nAt any rate, the flat-footed and perpendicular terminals
    of serif-less strokes cannot be made with a broad-nibbed pen held at a fixed angle.\r\n\r\nHowever
    they were made, they represent a technique of construction to achieve a design
    effect which is not a straightforward representation of \"pen rules\", and so
    offer an obvious precedent--standard practice, in fact-- for the inventions of
    15th century type designers.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-02 04:18:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, I see what you mean now. Yes, it does seem there was pen rotation going
    on. This tends to confirm Michael Clark's view that much more pen rotation was
    going on before the 'mannerist period' where Noordzij puts it. \r\n\r\nWhat period
    is this manuscript from?\r\n\r\nThough pen rotation is used to get an effect here,
    I don't think it is conceptually the same as the painted Imperial letters or the
    inscribed counter parts. There, what is happening, I tried to show, is a deliberate
    effort to get even color between letters, and balance within the letter, by pretty
    freely changing weights of strokes. The small serifs go together with the open
    feeling of the design as well. This aesthetic, which promote readability especially
    in small type, Jenson and Griffo applied and developed for the roman lower case
    in type.  "
  created: '2008-06-02 12:54:38'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: 'Bill, isn''t Sumner''s point that it is a lower case with a critical dependance
    on the contrast schemes of writing in the scribal tradition that is adjusted in
    that direction? '
  created: '2008-06-02 13:26:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Peter, I don't think anyone disagrees, including me, that the Carolingian
    minuscule is a pen-developed script, and that it was the point of departure for
    Jenson and Griffo's work.  \r\n\r\nI think when you say \"critical dependence
    on the contrast schemes\" of the Carolingian minuscule I think you are overstating
    the case, as I think while the influence is clearly very important, the deliberate
    and systematic departures are there as well. \r\n\r\nThey were willing to do thinner
    serifs and thinner diagonals that change the contrast scheme of the pen drawn
    letters, and even completely reverse the contrast in the case of the z, if I remember
    rightly. \r\n\r\nI understand why John Hudson is unwilling to acknowledge how
    significant this change was, as he doesn't accept any influence on readability
    beyond legibility of individual characters.  However, as you do think the focus
    on rhythm and color are important for readability, I would think that you would
    also label this treatment of letters a \"conceptual change\", as Sumner Stone
    does.  "
  created: '2008-06-02 14:38:37'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: In my opinion, while the thinning, straightening and reversals violate the
    natural tendencies of the actual or a virtual pen in translation at specific role-locations,
    they don't destroy or reverse the dominant contrast scheme underlying the sculpting
    of role-defining components in the lower case letters as a set. This is why I
    say the fundamental break is not with writing, but with literal paraphrase.
  created: '2008-06-02 15:35:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">fundamental break is not with writing, but with literal paraphrase.\r\n\r\nAgain,
    what one calls 'fundamental' is somewhat subjective. \r\n\r\nThe questions to
    me are:\r\n\r\n1. Whether there is something conceptually different going on,
    not based on the pen? In other words, Jenson and Griffo were making their modifications
    not based on anything derived from the pen, but rather some different concepts:
    balance of characters, readability. They were willing to depart from the pen to
    serve these ideals, even though the pen formed characters were their starting
    point, and their changes were \"conservative,\" in that they only changed the
    written forms where they could see a gain from the point of view of these ideals.
    \r\n\r\n2. Whether these ideals already had their origins in antiquity, in painted
    and carved letters. \r\n\r\nI would say yes to both.  "
  created: '2008-06-02 15:57:30'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Bill, my question is: what were the modifications to? not: what were they
    based on? \r\n\r\nThe changes are modifications to a formal grammer with a more
    originary debt. Classical ideals exerted a countervailing pressure. I don't deny
    the existence of these countervailing pressures or their impact on the typographical
    letter."
  created: '2008-06-02 16:17:17'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Bill, just to follow up, my impression is you want to tie structural dependance
    too closely to literal quotation.
  created: '2008-06-02 17:09:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">what were the modifications to? not: what were they based on?\r\n\r\nI think
    both are legitimate questions. I agree that the modifications were to the pen-based
    forms. But they were influenced by ideas that were not based on the pen. \r\n\r\nThe
    point that Stone makes, as I understand him, is that the new look, in so far as
    it was new, was not derivative from the pen. That's why it was conceptually different.
    And the fact that the medium was single letters carved of metal, slowly, gave
    them the freedom to pursue this new look."
  created: '2008-06-02 20:54:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: " <em>the medium was single letters carved of metal,</em>\r\n\r\nThat line
    of thinking leads to over-simplification, in directly comparing pen with counterpunch.\r\nThe
    new medium was a stretched-out industrial process involving more than one person--
    matrix-making, casting, composing, inking, making the impression, and re-using
    type.\r\nAs with all mechanization, craft becomes production work, and artistry
    becomes design/management.\r\nIt is this distancing of the decision-maker from
    the mark-maker which engenders abstraction, emphasizing the role of design.\r\nAt
    this point, McLuhan's laws of media become apparent, in particular #4 Retrieval:
    the content of any medium is an older medium.\r\n\r\nBut not necessarily any one
    medium; and so Incunabula type design was free to synthesize elements of pen,
    brush, and chisel media, as well as address issues specific to the new process.
    Retrieval was a traditional practice of page making, ensconced in the hierarchy
    of styles on the introductory page of manuscripts, starting with oldest (Roman
    capitals), below that Uncials, and then the most recent, Carolignian body text."
  created: '2008-06-02 21:17:40'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Yes, the answers to both questions are part of the story.
  created: '2008-06-02 21:18:53'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Nick, what, in the case of type, would you say the \u201Cheirarchy of retrieval\u201D
    was?"
  created: '2008-06-02 21:26:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Interesting post, Nick. \r\n\r\nI didn't mean that cutting punches was the
    whole story, but it was the foundation of the rest. And those cutting the punches
    knew the rest of the process and designed in accord with that. \r\n\r\nYour post
    makes me think: as printing was the first mass production method, so Jenson and
    Griffo and some of their colleagues were perhaps the first designers. By that
    I mean they were not crafting individual items, but consciously producing templates
    for reproduction of identical items. The strict imitation of black letter makes
    that not quite design, as there was not conscious innovation for the purpose of
    reproduction, as there seems to be with Jenson and Griffo.  "
  created: '2008-06-02 22:02:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>what, in the case of type, would you say the \u201Cheirarchy of retrieval\u201D
    was?</em>\r\n\r\nI couldn't say.\r\nI've seen work by Incunabula type designers
    other than Jenson, and it's all over the place.\r\nAnd yet he provided the definitive
    model, in the winnowing of history.\r\nObviously, there was a huge scene in Venice,
    where new media people from all over Europe congregated and threw their stuff
    in the stew.\r\nIn discussing typography and calligraphy, bear in mind that the
    Roman letter was in a decided minority of the books being published."
  created: '2008-06-02 22:05:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>printing was the first mass production method</em>\r\n\r\nIn Venice,
    boat building preceded it.\r\nThe Arsenal was a production line."
  created: '2008-06-02 22:09:01'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> And yet he provided the definitive model, in the winnowing of history.
    </cite>\r\n\r\nExactly. Which is why it's so tempting/exciting to be able to say
    something new about it - if it's accurate or not. \r\n\r\nLeaving the scribal
    aspects behind for now, I want to point out that there may be problem with Bill
    (& maybe Stone's?) approach which is that it may rely on too few samples. When
    I look at Aldine & Jenson books I find that the forms vary from book to book.
    And sometime maybe in the book as well. In order to be convincing I think you
    would have to see if the idea holds true over multiple editions and show how it
    develops over time. It might be that this is not relevant because the essential
    aspect persists. But it might not too. Also, the impression they offer is soft
    because the paper is rough.\r\n\r\nNone of this means that Bill is mistaken it
    itself but it does legitimately throw some details/fuzz up that has to be dealt
    with. "
  created: '2008-06-03 00:51:28'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I meant to say \"in itself\". Sorry. \r\n\r\nI got the article today. The
    next article by Rod McDonald is pretty interesting too. \r\n\r\nI may chime in
    after I have a chance to re-read it all."
  created: '2008-06-05 07:18:28'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "In his \u201CHet primaat van de pen\" (The primacy of the pen) Gerrit Noordzij
    formulates in a single sentence what he tries to maintain in Letterletter #11
    (pages 96 to 105 of the Letterletter book) as follows: \"Jenson\u2019s roman follows
    the construction of the late-gothic textura.\u201D [my translation] The section
    on page 104 and 105, along with the four-part illustration on page 103 \u2014
    that in the original Letterletter edition went with it \u2014 makes a compelling
    case for this point of view. \r\n\r\nThe argument is mainly about the serifs.\r\n\r\nManuscript
    evidence Stone interperts as showing efforts to put Imperial capital-style serifs
    on the humanistic lower case, Noordzj interprets as showing assimilation of the
    construction principles of a late-gothic textura into the humanistic lower-case
    domain.\r\n\r\nJenson's roman paraphrases. But what what his roman paraphrases
    represents is the issue.\r\n\r\nThis could make Jenson\u2019s innovation seem
    progressive, not grudging, and remove the plebian stigma Stone places on the presumably
    now subdominant lower case. Progressive, because for centuries innovations leading
    to the late-gothic textura had made the medieval script-letter the training-ground
    for the consolidation of the word."
  created: '2008-06-21 23:40:44'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I recommend reading that GN passage. And re-reading that. He isn't at his
    most accessible in that text. But he does make some compelling points that have
    the virtue of being much less mystical than the usual explanations.
  created: '2008-06-22 04:36:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Peter, a key issue here is chronology. \r\n\r\nIf, as the Stone article says,
    first came the introduction of Imperial caps with lower case, and later came more
    symmetrical serifs, then Noordzij's story doesn't hold. If the symmetrical serifs
    were introduced earlier for different reasons, then he would have a case--though
    there are a lot of other reasons why I think his story misses out on important
    non-writing influences. \r\n\r\nNoordzij doesn't give any dates on the \"Burgundian\"
    style of serif, so I can't really evaluate his argument. "
  created: '2008-06-23 15:40:36'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Bill, I thnk the sequence Noordzij's scheme suggests is first, the \u2018phase-one\u2019
    adaption of the Imperial capitals to the  Carolinian minuscules in manuscript
    writing that Stone associates with Poggio Bracciolini. The majuscules here \u201Crelied
    on thea stroke pattern derived from the pen-written minuscule.\u201D Then there
    is an assimilation of a \u201Clate-gothic\u201D textura construction into the
    humanistic lower-case domain. The key here is the figure 9 on Letterletter page
    101. The serif here is not fully symmetrical per force of the tool, much like
    the terminals in figure 3 from page 103 and the serifs in Jenson's type.\r\n\r\nI
    don't know the date of the textura Noordzij shows in figure 2 of page 103, or
    figure 3 of the same page. I assume figure 3 is from the same pool of evidence
    Stone uses for his claim s about the the minuscules in the second phase of Imperial
    capitals to the  Carolinian minuscules, where Stone says something closer to the
    Imperial caps takes the lead. I doubt Noordzij is playing with chronology here.
    Perhaps I'll try to find out.\r\n\r\nMore likely the change to a retracting serif
    in the Carolinian-derived minuscule, based on an assimilation of construction
    principle drawn from textura, set up a dynamic in the development of the lower
    case which could then branch out, once the transition to type was made, into a
    more literal assimilation of the formal features of the Imperial Roman (than in
    Bracciolini's case) and a subsequent feedback of those assimilations into a more
    formalized lower case such as occurs perhaps in Griffo.\r\n\r\nStone says that
    the construction of the Imperial Capital became more complex. It could well be
    that the innovation of using a textura-based construction to write the minuscule,
    carried over to the writing of Imperial Capital, led to the discovery that one
    could also come to a closer approximation of the formal features of the inscriptional
    Imperial Capital.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-23 18:32:07'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Perhaps what I'm getting to is that remarks about what occupies the dominating
    position must be taken with a grain of salt. \r\n\r\nThe story might be a good
    deal more complex. Noordzij\u2019s scheme raises the possibility that retroactive
    admiration for the Roman inscriptional capital <em>as well as, or simultaneous
    with</em> a lateral (in time) application of aspects of a well-understood textura
    construction of exit strokes (at least) to the recently revived carolinian minuscule
    are both at work in the Florentine and Paduan writing after Bracciolini: the one
    offering a new solution to the writing of the carolinian minuscule and the other
    pressing for further exploration in the writing of the majuscule. I'm curious
    to know what the \u201Cmore complex\u201D (Sumner Stone) stroke patterns used
    in the Florentine and Paduan manuscripts (especially for the caps) were. New initiatives
    and existing admirations work in tandem.\r\n\r\nIn a recent lengthy essay by Kay
    Amert evaluating Stanley Morison\u2019s \u201CAldine hypothesis\u201D about influences
    on French roman types of the early sixteenth century (\u201CStanley Morison\u2019s
    Aldine Hypothesis Revisited,\u201D <em>Design Issues</em>: Volume 24, Number 2,
    Spring 2008), Kay Amert states: \u201CThe connoisseurship that led Stanley Morison
    to grasp the importance of the Aldine roman for later punchcutters is misplaced
    when imputed in a literal sense to the punchcutters themselves. Rather than suggesting
    the close copying that is the method of modern revivals, the approach to the romans
    produced by these punchcutters suggests, instead, the application of a <em>synthesizing
    intelligence, the exercise of a keen critical sensibility cultivated in the practice
    of the craft, and a desire for originality in its pursuit.</em>\u201D [my emphasis]\r\n\r\nI
    think \u201Csynthesizing intelligence\u201D is apt, both in relation to the Florentine
    and Paduan writing and the Jenson type. Noordzij\u2019s importance is to not let
    real developments in writing drop out of the equation in the hunger to insist
    on the autonomy of type in relation to writing."
  created: '2008-06-25 19:33:51'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Nicely put!
  created: '2008-06-25 21:06:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">to insist on the autonomy of type in relation to writing.\r\n\r\nI certainly
    haven't said and don't think that type is autonomous of earlier writing. I don't
    think that Stone says that anywhere, either. What he says is that punch cutting
    added a *new* element, different from writing, to the design process, and that
    I find convincing. \r\n\r\nI would agree that Stone goes too far when he writes
    \"Letterforms could no longer be viewed, even mentally, as a series of strokes
    with an edged tool.\" I think that an \"underlying force\" of writing, to use
    van Krimpen's phrase, remains there. Even though Stone's statement is strictly
    speaking probably right--for real pens--I follow Noordzij in thinking that it
    is a very useful exercise to visualize what an edged tool would do, and then consider
    how what you want to do departs from it.\r\n\r\nBut if Stone goes a little farther
    than I am comfortable with, in my view Noordzij sometimes goes flying over the
    right balance in the other direction. I can't find the quotes at the moment, but
    if I run across them I'll add them to the thread.   "
  created: '2008-06-25 22:48:47'
date: '2008-05-25 17:22:30'
node_type: forum
title: Stone on Type vs Writing

---
