---
author:
  name: Feelingrandy
  picture: 112814
body: "I am curious if there are any other teachers out there who teach typography?\r\nIt's
  an odd fact that most students don't get it. There are not really ample tools available
  (Helvetica, the film, was a great start) to help with creating interest in the subject.
  There are some great websites (here, for instance) and youtube has some wonderful
  videos, but are there any other films about typography? Tools? If there are any
  typographers in the Los Angeles area, please drop by our class."
comments:
- author:
    name: nancy sharon collins
    picture: 111855
  body: "I have taught typography for four years now and participated in the TypeCon
    education forum last year.  Most of what I personally observed is a common frustration
    due to the fact that reading skills are no longer emphasized, especially in art
    schools, and that there are few great models for typographic inspiration.\r\n\r\nHere's
    what I mean; growing up I was surrounded by the American Heritage series of literature.
    \ Judging from how worn the books are I would have to say that I spent a long,
    long time looking at these beautifully crafted books.  Typographically, I now
    know, I got my \"style\" from these sensitively designed volumes.  So, I never
    had to \"learn\" how to set type. I had so much good typographic form memorized
    that by the time I got out of school it just came naturally.  I am not sure that
    these great type models are common anymore\u2013students grow up with the internet
    and video games, not gorgeous text.\r\n\r\nGo to Typecon, the education forum
    is great.  "
  created: '2008-05-26 18:47:36'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: I have a bit of trouble juxtaposing the wonderful typography Randy finds on
    youtube with the wonderful typography Nancy remembers from books. Could it be
    that typography isn't subject to a single vision? I've always felt that the best
    designs came from people who enjoyed reading, but perhaps that doesn't leave enough
    room for the people who prefer "just looking."
  created: '2008-05-26 19:50:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You have to include more uses than books. Typgraphy in ads in magazines is
    way more playful. Packaging has a crammed set of criteria and too many cooks but
    a real opportunity as well. Motion typography or new media brings a whole nother
    thing. We cannot keep teaching typography as if we were still doing early 20th
    Century books only. If typography teachers don't open their eyes to todays world,
    today's young students will close their eyes completely to typography.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-05-26 20:22:19'
- author:
    name: Feelingrandy
    picture: 112814
  body: "Charles, let's pray thats not true, that the best designs come from people
    who read. To clarify the youtube reference, there are a few videos that deal with
    the subject of typopgraphy. It's not easy subject to teach. Most people and students
    think of it as picking a font and it is hopefully way beyond that concept. I agree
    with the totally mesmerizing Nancy Sharon Collins (whose work is amazing) that
    it might be generational. I too grew up with literature, books, magazines and
    films that revealed some great hint of the power of typography. Teaching such
    an esoteric subject to students today, I  am always searching for media, books,
    websites, etc., that will inform, entertain and educate students. Ironically,
    the book that we provide students with is a history of typography, and frankly,
    not easy to read. I am often doubtful that knowing what a rebus is will help students
    better understand typography.\r\nSearching our own past for the sources of inspiration
    while enjoyable is unfortunately not always pertinent to methods required and
    needed today. You are right, these students have been raised to \"look\", especially
    at  computer monitors, television and movies. We need to speak a common language,
    find inspiration in the work of others anywhere, anyway we can."
  created: '2008-05-26 20:27:37'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Looks like you are going to pray a lot, Randy, maybe you can start telling
    your students why writing matters to you.
  created: '2008-05-26 20:43:57'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I think I've been misunderstood. At a very basic level, typography is the
    visually aesthetic portion of communicating with the written word; though some
    would say, handwriting should be ignored. But the machines we use to form the
    written word have moved in so many diverse ways I'd be prone to include handwriting
    as well -- why not? Letters generated by machine can now rival letters generated
    by hand, for good & ill.\r\n\r\nHowever, handwriting is just a wrinkle. The problem
    is one of *good* typography, and I think what's at play here is books are no longer
    the gold standard. We're letting all our currencies float. But that's hard to
    teach. If we generally let any form of written word in the door, what's *good*
    will depend on context; on purpose. Grunge is good only if your purpose is to
    shake people up, not if your purpose is to communicate any other idea. Are typographers
    then required to defend their purposes? I'd think so. Perhaps that is the other
    part of the teaching problem. "
  created: '2008-05-26 22:30:52'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "I taught typography for 4 years in a masters class in a very well ranked
    french school. I thought masters student in graphic design, aged 20-24, would
    be interested in type and carry a good knowledge. No. They just don't give a damn
    at, say, 90%. And the most amazing is that the last 10% are absolutely crazy about
    it. It's like, there is no middle class there, all or nothing. When I remember
    myself, I actually have to say that in art school I wasn't very much interested
    in it either. It came later, with experience. I think that the love and interest
    in typography does not come early, unless specific cases. I think it mainly comes
    late, and grows with experience. But it might come from the teachers too: maybe,
    just as Chris said above, I would have been much more crazy about type if our
    teachers showed us nice uses of type in magazine ads... For a sadly big amount
    of art students, type is just a very small detail in the job as they see it, something
    they have to use, like a burden. They guess they will find the right font quickly
    with the use of Fontbook or Typophile.com... Well, anyway, I suppose you can not
    ask from every student to recognize Helvetica's advantages over Univers, but that's
    a shame because that's how it should actually be.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-05-27 08:31:30'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "You have to open your students's eyes, if not their hands to hold a pencil.\r\nMy
    students come to class with their clothes on, but they (95%) forget the tools."
  created: '2008-05-27 09:09:53'
- author:
    name: nora g
    picture: 113099
  body: 'Teaching typography is teaching to think. In my opinion you''ll have to reach
    their hearts and minds by showing examples that makes clear what a powerful tool
    typography can be. All the other things they learn by doing and doing and doing
    again and again and again ... it''s all about your own enthusiasm and a sort of
    uncompromising honesty by talking about their work, The times of simple typesetting
    are over. They have to know what they do and why they do it this way they do.
    Knowledge in typography can save their professional lives ;-) Know how to think
    and to visualize and verbalize the results is an advantage in times,  the tools
    get democratic, and every bakery can set and print out their handmade stationery
    themselves. '
  created: '2008-05-27 11:22:13'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "\"Knowledge in typography can save their professional lives\"\r\n\r\nthat
    is so true... but they realize this when they reach the professional life.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-05-28 07:52:47'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: <em> The difference between the novice and the master is simply that the novice
    has not learnt, yet, how to do things in such a way that he can afford to make
    small mistakes. The master knows that the sequence of his actions will always
    allow him to cover his mistakes a little further down the line. It is this simple
    but essential knowledge which gives the work of a master carpenter its wonderful,
    smooth, relaxed, and almost unconcerned simplicity. </em>
  created: '2008-05-29 06:18:11'
- author:
    name: Irene
  body: "I have been teaching typography and advanced typography for 24 years. If
    you love type and are able to pry open the minds of your students you can fill
    them with excitement and a new found appreciation for this subject. You have to
    make it an exciting journey of exploration in each class. It really challenges
    you as an instructor to keep their interest. Imagine being a student and the subject
    for the day is kerning... As an instructor I have to train them to really look
    at everything and this is usually something completely new for them. Ask them
    to bring in examples of what they like and then retrain them with good examples
    so they can see quality design with a great use of type. I actually make students
    hand trace type so they can learn an appreciation for the subtle nuances in different
    fonts. They have to learn that type is one of the most important tools. Instructors
    have to teach students what small details in their work will set them apart in
    their professional life.\r\n\r\nAs an instructor I have a responsibility to teach
    about quality, copyrights, usage, and paying for fonts. I start them early with
    an understanding of these concepts.\r\n\r\nFeelinggrandy - There is an amazing
    instructor in Los Angeles who teaches at Otis/Parsons (I think) named Joe Molloy/Mondo
    Typo. He is a graphic designer who opened a type service setting amazing Berthold
    type (back in the day). I miss his type, I still can't get my Mac to produce quality
    type that is as good as my photo typeset projects. Maybe that is because I am
    a designer and was never supposed to be a typesetter!?\r\n\r\nHonor the past,
    embrace the present, teach the future."
  created: '2008-05-29 16:53:16'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Nancy said it above: Come join your colleagues at the Type and Education
    Forum at TypeCon this year. \r\n\r\nThe complete Forum info is now posted and
    registration is open: http://www.typecon.com/education.php\r\n\r\nCome for the
    Ed. Forum. Stay for the TypeCon. Leave totally stoked.\r\n\r\n[Disclosure: I'm
    on the board of SoTA, so this could be construed as shameless promotion.]\r\n\r\n--
    K."
  created: '2008-05-29 18:51:48'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "in design school here there might be a handful of students in a class full
    of 40 who actually care about typography, and no I'm not talking big things like
    making their own typefaces, I mean only  ahandful bother to *ever* open up the
    glyphs palette and even see what's there.\r\n\r\nI think the sad reality is there
    used to be printers that dealt with type only, and designers who didn't deal much
    with type at all, now both have morphed into one person and most of the time that
    person doesn't care.\r\n\r\nWhat got my excited about typography wasn't typography
    class (which was more type layout than anything, redundant because we had a design
    layout class) but rather walking around and spotting typefaces around town.  Knowing
    the name of the designer, the year.  What fonts were influenced by it.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    you'd call that a knowledge of type history that turned me on to it, but now that
    I can confidently name typefaces similar to 'x' or know what classic typeface
    that new one that just came out is inspired by, that's getting me excited to think
    more about type!\r\n\r\nMy college *did* show the Helvetica movie, with a massive
    turnout (people from outside of our program came because of the interest) but
    there was no way to channel that interest into a project or a study so it faded."
  created: '2008-05-29 23:56:58'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: Teaching typography is a long-term goal for me. For those of you that teach,
    how did you move into teaching? Do you teach a few classes and maintain a large
    design workload, or primarily teach and do a few design projects on the side?
  created: '2008-05-30 09:29:05'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: I received an invitation to teach in Turkey when freelancing in <em>expensive</em>
    Rome.
  created: '2008-05-30 10:59:02'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: 'Alessandro: do you teach in turkish?'
  created: '2008-05-30 12:53:04'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Hayir David, T\xFCrk\xE7e \xF6g(reniyorum, I teach in English."
  created: '2008-05-30 13:36:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I have always dreamed of visiting Milan to see the city and study the typography
    and see a Puccini opera at La Scala. I can't afford the trip to Italy or Turkey!
    Ciao Alessandro!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-05-30 17:05:31'
- author:
    name: Irene
  body: "When I first began teaching I was invited to teach by a few schools after
    finishing Art Center College of Design in California. I was referred by senior
    designers in the design community. I do maintain a full design studio while teaching.
    If you want to teach in full time design degree programs in the US you need at
    least a BFA if not an MFA but you can teach in continuing education programs without
    a degree. You can usually teach at night while doing design work during the day.
    I am looking to teach outside of the US soon. It would be wonderful to experience
    teaching in other countries.\r\n\r\nI can't make it to TypeCon this year (teaching
    commitments) but it sounds great. What are the dates for next year?\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-30 22:09:38'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "The dates for next year aren't finalized yet. \r\n\r\nWe're aiming to keep
    it in mid- to late-July. It all depends upon the availability and negotiations
    with the conference hotel and venues. \r\n\r\nWe will have the dates settled in
    time for the announcement of both location and dates of next year's conference
    during this summer's TypeCon. And then, of course, the dates will show up on the
    TypeCon website, post-con.\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2008-05-31 16:02:31'
- author:
    name: Feelingrandy
    picture: 112814
  body: "Thanks for the great responses.\r\nI have thought a lot about this subject
    recently. I believe in many ways it is the computer, that best and worst of tools
    that has pushed typography to the backburner.\r\nMany of us, of an age, grew up
    with Letraset and phototypositors. We had an intimate relationship with type.
    We rubbed it (literally) on paper, we xeroxed pages and pages of type, concepts
    which now must seem archaic and they are. \r\nThe computer is not just another
    typewriter.\r\nIt's the new television. Students are visual, they have grown up
    with computer monitors like many of us grew up with televisions. \r\nI also teach
    first year students, which i think explains why many simply don't get it (yet).
    Some will. I agree Innovati: the first day of class we look out the windows and
    see all kinds of typography (unfortunately it's Washington Mutual, not the most
    fascinating font).\r\nWhat is extraordinary is this site. It's a bit like joining
    the crazy farm. How delightful that so many people share this curious and interesting
    passion."
  created: '2008-06-01 19:36:11'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I just graduated from a school whose faculty are often obsessed with typography,
    and I often felt like the biggest problem was that postmodern typography and digital
    type created too much for many students to grasp in four years. Learning all of
    the little details is a year of study, figuring out what matters in the real world
    and whats just a quirky academic notion can suck the life out of internships.
    Then there\u2019s the layer of grid knowledge, made messy by the tendency of designers
    to stink at math. Get that right and then comes expressive and experimental typography.
    Now that web/Flash experience has become a common requirement for entry-level
    design jobs students must also learn to make type work onscreen, both static and
    animated. It doesn\u2019t surprise me in the least that many students minds aren\u2019t
    elastic enough to take it all in\u2014it literally pushed me and other students
    in the program to the limits of sanity. \r\n\r\nLooking back at it all, and knowing
    that there\u2019s stuff I wish my school hadn\u2019t had to leave out of the curriculum,
    I can\u2019t really imagine a good solution to teaching typography in the twenty-first
    century. I think it likely that great design schools will become crucibles in
    the manner of graduate programs in law or medicine, in which the students who
    can\u2019t take it all in will just crack."
  created: '2008-06-02 00:30:04'
- author:
    name: Alento
  body: "Even when smart people are told to make an annotation or a short story or
    just a simple overview of any kind, many students try to apply for some writing
    service assistance. This type of work requires serious brains as well as logical
    thinking in a stable and structured form. Reflections to <a href=\"http://papersmart.net/dissertation.html\">use
    this resource as help</a> write dissertations made by our cheap writers are worthy
    of a deep research on a pointed theme. Ask for our help you know there is no other
    chance to succeed.\r\n"
  created: '2014-08-25 15:48:16'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "I taught a book design class for 10 years. When I started, there was no such
    thing as desktop publishing. By the time I stopped, there was almost nothing else.
    \r\nI was teaching people to be graphic designers, not type designers, so I wasn't
    teaching typography <em>per se</em>. I taught my students that if you expect people
    to pay you to select type for them, you have to be able to do more than look at
    a list and say \"Papyrus looks cool, I think I'll use that,\" because your client/employer
    can do that for herself.\r\nTo help my students learn the factors that distinguish
    one face from another, and make one face more suitable than another for a specific
    purpose (weight, contrast, x-height, etc.), I had them draw a layout and render
    the display type by hand. \"No one will ever pay you to do this, ever,\" I told
    them, \"but I'm making you do this because I can show you slides and talk about
    bracketing all night, but it won't teach you half as much as if draw a word in
    Palatino and then draw the same word in Century.\""
  created: '2014-08-25 16:08:03'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: "I'm just finishing up my first quarter of teaching a 10-week intensive introductory
    typography course to art direction students at an advertising portfolio school.
    My goals for the class are for the students to explore the expressive potential
    of letterforms, to understand some of the historical forces that have shaped them,
    and to learn how to use type as a conceptual tool. I also teach a bit of Bringhurstian
    textcraft, but it's honestly secondary to concept. I figure if I can get them
    excited about type then they'll pick up the details along the way.\r\n\r\nThe
    curriculum's going to be ironed out more next quarter, but I realized that I unconsciously
    divided the class into three sections \u2014 letters, words, and text \u2014 each
    of which has a major multi-week project corresponding to it, in addition to several
    smaller exercises.\r\n\r\nHere are my major assignments, more or less:\r\nLetters:
    Pick a location or a category (i.e. Home Depot, Central Park, patterns in the
    soles of shoes) and create a photographic found alphabet using non-alphabetic
    objects. Trace each letter (BY HAND!) in black-and-white. Pick one of those letters
    and extrapolate an entire alphabet, A-Z from that letter. Design a magazine cover
    that would use that typeface for its logo.\r\n\r\nWords: Design a cover for your
    favorite book. [This assignment was stretched out over three weeks \u2014 first
    they had to bring in ten rough conceptual sketches in Sharpie, followed by 10
    tighter comps, followed by three very tight comps including spine & back cover,
    followed by a final cover]\r\n\r\nText: Pick an piece of writing with at least
    1,000 words. READ THE TEXT and then design a multi-page layout (magazine, iPad,
    website) for it, including an introductory feature spread, pull quotes, supporting
    images, etc. [Like the book cover assignment this one is stretched out over several
    weeks]\r\n\r\nI've been really impressed with my students' work so far.\r\n"
  created: '2014-08-25 19:01:14'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: "Oh, also, the very first thing I did in class was had them go out into the
    neighborhood for an hour and bring back ten examples of what they thought was
    good type, and ten examples of what they thought was bad type. I certainly didn't
    agree with all of their picks, but it helped get the students engaged and discussing
    from the outset and also taught them that type is so very rarely objectively good
    or objectively bad, and the real question is, what does this type set out to accomplish,
    and does it do that effectively?\r\n\r\nThis exercise would not have been possible
    in the days before ubiquitous cell phone cameras."
  created: '2014-08-25 19:10:27'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "Eric, your typography-<em>trouv\xE9</em> exercise reminds me of a similar
    assignment I used to give my book-design students. I had them bring in a book
    they thought was especially well-designed, or especially badly-designed, and tell
    the class what they thought was good or bad about it. \r\nAfter I had been teaching
    the course for about six years, the law of averages caught up with me, and a student
    brought in an example of bad design which (although she didn't know it) I had
    designed.\r\nTo be fair, she was right. If I had that book to design over again,
    I would have done it differently. In the end, it was a teachable moment."
  created: '2014-08-25 19:33:08'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: Haha, Victor, that's a great story. But was it *especially* badly designed?
  children:
  - author:
      name: PublishingMojo
      picture: 116574
    body: The chapter-opening pages were heinous. Everything else was just <em>meh</em>.
    created: '2014-08-25 20:09:10'
  created: '2014-08-25 20:01:39'
- author:
    name: Glider
  body: "As I don't have a background in the arts (I work in science education and
    did a science degree) I found Matthew Butterick's [[practicaltypography.com|Practical
    Typography]] website and [[http://www.amazon.com/Typography-Lawyers-Matthew-Butterick/dp/1598390775/ref=sr_1_1?s=gateway&ie=UTF8&qid=1285598465&sr=8-1|book]]
    an absolutely excellent textbook in learning to lay out business material. (Usual
    lack of commercial interest disclaimer.)\r\n\r\nIt's branded as for lawyers but
    really it would fit in well on the bookshop of any professional which I think
    is an important point: most people who need education in this stuff are people
    like me who never have or will take a class in graphic design-and that forms a
    much larger market than people considering becoming font designers. "
  created: '2015-01-31 13:01:43'
date: '2008-05-26 18:33:44'
node_type: forum
title: Teaching Typography

---
