---
author:
  name: popovich
  picture: 110254
body: Okay, newbie or not but after reading several books on typography I can&#39;t
  remember anyone mentioning anything about <b>how</b> to measure kerning. Most of
  the time would be told &#34;Kerning is important!&#34;, &#34;Double-check your kerning!&#34;,
  &#34;blah!&#34;, &#34;blah blah!&#34;, BUT .... how? Say, If I have a measure X
  which equals the letter-spacing here &#34;NM&#34;, then how do I measure the kerning
  in the following pairs &#34;NO&#34;, &#34;OS&#34;, &#34;WS&#34;, &#34;PG&#34;, etc..
  Do you have your techniques? Tell me, please.
comments:
- author:
    name: mattuk
  body: I tend to only kern large characters in headings, and i only really ever do
    it visually. Its usually glaringly obvious which characters look ugly together,
    and realistically not always possible to spend the time going through every font
    combination in kerning table edit in Quark.
  created: '2003-06-26 13:25:14'
- author:
    name: popovich
    picture: 110254
  body: visually? with eyes? it&#39;s seems to me to be subjective - you&#39;ll say
    the kerning is okay, and I would say &#34;hmm... could be better, just move it
    to the right a bit, just a little tiny bit&#34;, you know? I want to believe there
    are rules for kerning, based on mathematics, geometry or whatever and not only
    on subjective perception. And I would like to learn those rules...
  created: '2003-06-26 13:30:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: There is no math, at least not math a human would be willing/able to do. <BR>
    <BR>So it&#39;s subjective, especially for all-caps setting. But for running lc
    text, assuming your objective is even color, most people&#39;s ideas of good spacing
    converge greatly. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-06-26 15:26:12'
- author:
    name: mattuk
  body: I like to think that design and typography is equally about aesthetics and
    creative flair as well as hard and fast rules. While i take your point that you
    can apply sets of rules to certain elements of typography including kerning, I
    think to a point it takes the fun out if it bowing to mere mathematical calculation.  <BR>
    <BR>The kerning of specific characters changes from font to font, but yes there
    are similarities between pairs of characters. I couldn&#39;t tell you whether
    the kerning between &#39;ey&#39; is based on any mathematical rule, only that
    the shape of the characters means that they need to be closer together to appear
    visually equally spaced. <BR> <BR>Someone else might though...
  created: '2003-06-26 15:26:54'
- author:
    name: popovich
    picture: 110254
  body: It&#39;s okay to have fun while working - not only in typography. I agree
    absolutely. But there is so much fun already working with it, that I thought,
    there are also some definite set of rules at least for some parts of the whole
    process. Like, Matthew, you say that kerning differs from font to font. True but
    I wasn&#39;t speaking about absolute values. I meant relative rules. Like, NM
    is 1 measure &#40;1M&#41;. OK is 0.8M, WW is 0.5M and so on &#40;hypothetically
    speaking&#41;. <BR>I am surprised there are no rules regarding kerning. <BR>How
    are kerning tabes made/calculated? I mean the ones supplied for every font. What
    are those principles?
  created: '2003-06-26 15:37:19'
- author:
    name: eomine
    picture: 110361
  body: '&#62;I meant relative rules. [...] <BR> <BR>I think this is not possible,
    because each typeface has particular shapes and metrics. The lack of a priori
    &#34;rules&#34; doesn&#39;t mean anything, you just have to develop your own rules,
    for each typeface you design. <BR> <BR>It&#39;s not about fun, it&#39;s more about
    &#34;sensitivity&#34;, applied in a objetive way &#40;if this make any sense ;-&#41;.
    <BR>'
  created: '2003-06-26 16:08:54'
- author:
    name: aquatoad
    picture: 110555
  body: Hi Alexey, <BR> <BR>I think you might find the book, Type By Design to be
    useful to get basic spacing down. Finding a hard copy of Type By Design can be
    a problem. Somewhere in these forums somebody posted a link to an online version
    of it. Chapter three is the one you want, I think. I can&#39;t find the link for
    the life of me. Help from the hive mind? <BR> <BR>Randy
  created: '2003-06-26 17:38:36'
- author:
    name: eomine
    picture: 110361
  body: Randy, there&#39;s a link to Type by Design <a href="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/11864.html?1056144258"
    target="_blank"> in this thread</a>. <BR>The spacing chapter &#40;Walter Tracy&#39;s
    method&#41; is great, but I think Alexey is talking about kerning, not spacing.
  created: '2003-06-26 20:55:46'
- author:
    name: aquatoad
    picture: 110555
  body: 'Ahaaa! So he was. <BR> <BR>However, Type by Design still gives a good overview
    of kerning. I think Alexey, you are looking for the same kind of fomula Walter
    Tracy gives as a start on spacing, only for kerning.  <BR> <BR>The book does give
    a list of important kerning pairs to consider &#40;for english&#41;. The reason
    it&#39;d be tough to make a formula is because the nature of the beast is that
    each one is an exception to the rule. I dunno, maybe someone&#39;s got a masterplan?  <BR>
    <BR>I also find it interesting the avg. number of kerning pairs are given for
    two foundries &#40;at the time the book was originally published&#41; Adobe: 100-200  and
    Bitstream 200-500. Those may have changed. The key for text though, is the spacing,
    as kerning has less influence at smaller point sizes. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m rambling,
    sorry. <BR>Randy'
  created: '2003-06-26 22:51:30'
- author:
    name: graficartist
    picture: 110450
  body: --self edit--
  created: '2003-06-27 00:31:21'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: Regarding your original question, there are many ways to kern and as mentioned
    above it&#39;s all subjective depending on the type of type you&#39;re making
    . . . <BR> <BR>A text face has more predictable forms due to its nature and can
    actually look good without much additional kerning. In contrast, a display face
    that contains no repeating character forms in some cases can be riddled with kern
    pairs. <BR> <BR>The key to determine how many kern pairs all comes down to the
    quality of the spacing job on the font. It is likely a perfectly spaced font could
    exist without any kern pairs. <BR> <BR>Regarding rules for kerning, I have a personal
    theory. . . If you were to determine the absolute horizontal center of a character
    and draw a line at that mark then set a long string of text, I would kern anything
    that exceeded a certain width or percentage minding the width of the glyph. <BR>
    <BR>I think there is a rhythm that can be easily identified in relation to the
    rest of the glyphs in the typeface and to some degree could become a rule that
    requires kerning be applied. <BR> <BR>Beyond that, another thing to consider is
    that even if you decide to make as few kerning pairs as possible, if you make
    let&#39;s say a &#39;vo&#39; kern, expect that will also be required for a &#39;v
  created: '2003-06-27 05:36:58'
- author:
    name: popovich
    picture: 110254
  body: wow, thanks everybody for taking time and participating. <BR>Randy, I&#39;ve
    downloaded the book you mentioned and will surely read the recommended chapters
    first &#40;and then the whole book ^_^ &#41;. <BR>Stuart, I didn&#39;t really
    get your concept of horizontical center, a line and kerning. Also, the concept
    of &#34;rhythm&#34; is hard to understand on the fly. I&#39;ve seen it mentioned
    in &#34;The Elements of Typographic Style&#34; and other books on the subject,
    but it&#39;s hard to understand it like that. ;/ <BR> <BR>Also, what about those
    programs, like HZ-Program now built in InDesign for optical kerning? It calculates
    something with its formulas. Of course, it would be naive enough to think everybody
    knows those formulas, but does anyone happen to know the principle? What IS optical
    kerning? How can a programm be subjective?! O_o <BR> <BR>And the word &#34;arbitrary&#34;
    doesn&#39;t make my day shine. See, such an untrained eye as mine will need million
    years before it can kern right. -_;
  created: '2003-06-27 13:02:26'
- author:
    name: aquatoad
    picture: 110555
  body: <i>The key to determine how many kern pairs all comes down to the quality
    of the spacing job on the font. It is likely a perfectly spaced font could exist
    without any kern pairs.</i>  <BR>  <BR>Great point. That&#39;s why I immediatly
    jumped in and started talking spacing. For example, Alexey, if you look at the
    list of kerning pairs on pages 89 and 90 of the book you downloaded, the essentials
    are listed at the bottom of p.89. You probably will have to kern &#40;Av, Ay,
    Aw, AW etc.&#41; But good spacing might just take care of many on page 90 &#40;for
    example OB, OD, OE, OF, OH, OI, OK, OL, OM, ON, OP, OR etc, a round next to a
    vertical, they&#39;re all going to be really close to the same&#41; One suggestion
    might be to group the remaining ones into similar groups for kerning &#40;Av,
    Ay, Aw will be relatively close&#41; <BR> <BR><i>Regarding rules for kerning,
    I have a personal theory. . . If you were to determine the absolute horizontal
    center of a character and draw a line at that mark then set a long string of text,
    I would kern anything that exceeded a certain width or percentage minding the
    width of the glyph. </i> <BR> <BR>I also have personal theory, that guides my
    spacing/kerning :-&#41; For the latin alphabet my experience is that the top half
    of the lower case has a larger impact on legibility and spacing. For example if
    you were to type the word l-i-t-t-l-e  or  f-i-t-t-i-n-g  and cover up the top
    half  a&#41; you&#39;d be hard pressed to read it, and b&#41; the spacing would
    look really bad! But looking at the letters as a whole, the job might be spaced
    just right. I guess all that to say, top half of most letters will have the most
    effect on the spacing/kerning. <BR> <BR>One last thought, it&#39;s impossible
    to incorrectly space two letters. When you add the third, that&#39;s when it gets
    tricky. In your metrics window go down the line in groups of three, then check
    the line as a whole for overall rythm &#40;for spacing and kerning&#41;. <BR>
    <BR>I am no expert! Expert methods wanted! <BR> <BR>Randy
  created: '2003-06-27 16:51:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; the concept of &#34;rhythm&#34; is hard to understand on the fly. <BR>
    <BR>Or even sitting down. Because it doesn&#39;t really exist. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-06-28 00:01:54'
- author:
    name: aquatoad
    picture: 110555
  body: 'rhythm &#40;<i>noun</i>; &#39;ri-[th]m&#41;: movement or fluctuation  <BR>marked
    by the <i>regular recurrence or natural flow of  <BR>related elements</i> b :
    the repetition in a literary work of  <BR>phrase, incident, character type, or
    symbol <BR> <BR>It doesn&#39;t exist? By saying &#34;rhythm&#34; aren&#39;t we
    talking about  <BR>a regularity to the spacing, a cadence that is as even as  <BR>possible
    throught any combination of characters. There will  <BR>always be breaks in the
    rythm because of the shapes of  <BR>latin letters. L &#43; anyletter will cause
    a hiccup in the rhythm. <BR> <BR>The bait was tossed and my lip is expecting a
    sharp pain  <BR>any moment now. <BR> <BR>Randy'
  created: '2003-06-28 16:13:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'To be fair, there certainly is rhythm during deliberative reading &#40;like
    looking at a poster&#41;. In fact there are probably many layers of rhythm there.
    <BR> <BR>But in text, there are only two parameters of rhythm: <BR>1&#41; The
    relationship of saccades to line lengths. <BR>2&#41; The textual content. <BR>But
    #1 is a typesetting thing, and #2 is an authoring thing - both outside the scope
    of type design. <BR> <BR>So there can be no real rhythm at the letterform level,
    not even the bouma level. It sure sounds great though - like a kirin in the sky.
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-06-28 20:33:03'
- author:
    name: aquatoad
    picture: 110555
  body: In the end, a good definition of rhythm is not the point &#40;I think ours
    differ&#41;, nor is the existence of rhythm or not. Trying to come up with a good
    plan to approach spacing and kerning is. I&#39;d be most interested to hear &#40;in
    detail if you&#39;re willing -- or anyone else for that matter&#41; your course
    of action when setting about spacing and kerning a font.  <BR> <BR>I think Stuart
    was merely articulating some of what i&#39;m &#40;and Alexey&#39;s&#41; hoping
    to hear more of. If I read his part about rhythm with relation to the other glyphs
    in an alphabet, that&#39;s just to say many letters in the roman alphabet have
    similar shapes, and thus could be spaced/kerned similarly. Forgive me Stuart if
    I&#39;m off the deep end! <BR> <BR>Regards <BR>Randy <BR> <BR>BTW Hrant, congratulations
    on post number 2700.
  created: '2003-06-30 03:00:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; Trying to come up with a good plan to approach spacing and kerning
    is. <BR> <BR>Totally. <BR> <BR>Good spacing is good notan &#40;the relationship
    between white and black&#41;. Good notan is where the letters meld into good boumas.
    When the spacing is too tight/loose, the black gets lost in the discord between
    intra- and inter-letter white. <BR> <BR>&#62; post number 2700 <BR> <BR>Oh. Time
    flies. Or something. But you guys were supposed to remind me at 2048 &#40;remember,
    I&#39;m a binaryboy&#41;. So now you have to wait for 4096. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-06-30 03:22:26'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: The old Calligraphy-oriented type design books educate kerning through the
    amount of little &#34;bubbles&#34; between your letter pairs. Is anyone familiar
    with this technique?
  created: '2003-06-30 06:47:16'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: <i>&#62;Good spacing is good notan</i> <BR> <BR>Hrant -- <BR> <BR>Are you
    making up new words again? This is the second or third time I&#39;ve seen you
    use this &#34;notan&#34; word. What the hell does it mean and where does it come
    from? <BR> <BR>-- Kent. <BR>
  created: '2003-07-01 00:48:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; This is the second or third time <BR> <BR>That&#39;s it?! I&#39;ll
    have to ramp it up...  ;-&#41; <BR> <BR>Notan is an old and highly useful, deep
    term. So it&#39;s not-an invention of mine. :-&#41; <BR> <BR>Notan is Japanese,
    and it means the counterbalancing and relationship of Black and White. Like Yin-Yang.
    <BR> <BR>Without getting too religious, I&#39;d say that Notan is the entire basis
    of type design, but it has yet to gain proper respect in the West. You hear people
    say things like &#34;the black has to be balanced by the white&#34;, but they
    don&#39;t go any deeper than that, towards the implications, like how lettering
    and type differ, and how chirography cannot generate optimal notan &#40;because
    the two edges of the black over-ride the truly necessary relationship, the one
    between the black and the white&#41;. And the fact that the term has to be imported
    from the East is highly telling. <BR> <BR>Notan is the reason spacing is just
    as important as the letterforms, the reason a font is more than a set of pretty
    shapes. <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>Recommended reading: <BR>&#34;Notan: The Dark-Light
    Principle of Design&#34; <BR>by Dorr Bothwell, Marlys Mayfielf <BR>Only US$8,
    and it includes DIY exercises. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-07-01 01:57:01'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Hmm, borrowed from the Japanese this time. All right, but just this once.
    ;-&#41; Seriously, though, you might consider putting it in italics -- you know,
    foreign term and all that. <BR> <BR>-- K. <BR>
  created: '2003-07-01 11:54:53'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: Alexey <BR> <BR>You might find this useful? <BR> <BR><a href="http://briem.ismennt.is/2/2.3.1a/2.3.1.02.contents.htm"
    target="_blank">http://briem.ismennt.is/2/2.3.1a/2.3.1.02.contents.htm</a>
  created: '2003-07-01 20:03:03'
- author:
    name: popovich
    picture: 110254
  body: Thanks for the link Gerald, I do find this intersting. <BR>Hrant, what is
    a &#34;bouma&#34; then?
  created: '2003-07-02 14:15:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#40;I can hear the groans...&#41; <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_read1.html"
    target="_blank">http://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_read1.html</a> <BR>Note: this
    is highly simplified. In reality, all kinds of strange things happen both at the
    perceptive level &#40;especially in the parafovea&#41; and most certainly in the
    higher cognitive areas. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-07-02 16:00:43'
- author:
    name: tidchris
    picture: 110188
  body: YES! keep it going. <BR> <BR>Hrant&#39;s deconstructing the &#39;virtual machine&#39;
    that processes design - the human perceptual system. Some of it is objective,
    contextless, pure - some of it is about detecting faces and the difference between
    a copse of trees and a tiger. <BR> <BR>I think the notion of &#39;notan&#39; invites
    the designer to start on grey rather than black or white &#40;chiaroscuropsis?&#41;
    cause in the real world &#39;figure&#39; is positive and negative variations against
    ground. In a decade we&#39;ll know better how to maximize the channel between
    visual presentation and the mind. Feedback will play a big part. Until then we&#39;ll
    have to kern by eye, and gut. <BR> <BR>-chris
  created: '2003-07-20 00:20:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; chiaroscuropsis? <BR> <BR>Hey, that sounds really cool. <BR>Some famous
    guy once said: &#34;Before I invent anything, I need a nice name for it.&#34;
    <BR> <BR>&#62; In a decade we&#39;ll know better how to maximize <BR>&#62; the
    channel between visual presentation and the mind. <BR> <BR>Maybe. These days academic
    funding comes from megacorporations, not philanthropists, so unless you can explain
    the benefits of unraveling reading to stockholders &#40;somewhat harder than explaining
    to them the benefits of cupholders...&#41; don&#39;t hold your breath.  :-/ <BR>
    <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-07-20 02:24:58'
- author:
    name: tidchris
    picture: 110188
  body: '&#62; don&#39;t hold your breath. :-/  <BR> <BR>Nah. These days I breathe
    whenever possible.  <BR> <BR>I am tired of defending every act of art and human
    mercy by how many dollars it would add to the pockets of the powerful. Megacorporations
    are not humans, they are not my users and they do not care if I die. It&#39;s
    mutual. Don&#39;t trust anyone over 30 &#40;$Billion US&#41;. <BR> <BR>&#34;Kerning
    pairs must be as cup and cupholder&#34; - throwing a bone back on topic'
  created: '2003-07-20 20:59:56'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: '&#62;I also find it interesting the avg. number of kerning  <BR>&#62;pairs
    are given for two foundries &#40;at the time the book <BR>&#62; was originally
    published&#41; Adobe: 100-200 and  <BR>&#62;Bitstream 200-500. <BR> <BR>Righto.
    Why do some foundries boast that they have <BR>thousands of kerning pairs, yet
    Bitstream et al have  <BR>hundreds? I read somewhere that more = worse <BR>because
    that would mean more data. Is this necessarily <BR>true? By spacing, do you people
    mean metrics?'
  created: '2003-10-25 03:28:28'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: I just noticed this thread with Kris&#39;s quote. <BR> <BR>Sure, more kerning
    = a bigger font and more data. But frankly, that&#39;s not much of an issue on
    modern computers and with most current-edition software. <BR> <BR>Lots of kerning
    may result from a designer trying to compensate for poor initial spacing. But
    even given ideal spacing, a well-made single-byte font may be able to make good
    use of several thousand kern pairs. <BR> <BR>Although Adobe&#39;s earliest fonts
    in the mid-80s typically had 100-200 kern pairs, by the time Adobe stopped making
    Type 1 fonts at the end of the 90s, 500-3000 was a fairly normal range of kerning
    pairs for an Adobe Original design. <BR> <BR>I&#39;ll note that the 100-200 count
    typically involved not kerning accented characters, so it was basically inadequate
    for most Latin languages beyond English. <BR> <BR>Today, the whole point has become
    moot for those of us doing OpenType fonts. The character sets may be larger &#40;sometimes
    vastly larger&#41;, which means more kerning is needed. Further, the opportunity
    to use class-based kerning means that &#34;pairs&#34; and the linear relationship
    between total kerning and data size become irrelevant. <BR> <BR>If you took the
    kerning classes in Minion Pro Regular and expanded them into pairs, you&#39;d
    end up with &#62;70,000 pairs &#40;we did a test at one point in development;
    the final total would doubtless be larger&#41;. But the font also has something
    like 1600 glyphs. <BR> <BR>We don&#39;t generally &#34;boast&#34; about the quantity
    of kerning in Adobe fonts. It&#39;s not something we advertise on our Web site.
    But I will say that we spend a great deal of time and effort trying to get spacing
    and kerning right. <BR> <BR>Cheers, <BR> <BR>T <BR>
  created: '2003-10-25 04:44:02'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: Thomas, I realised after I posted that contemporary  <BR>technology pretty
    much renders file size irrelevant. But  <BR>does &#34;compensat[ing] for poor
    initial spacing&#34; suggest <BR>that the intial spacing effort would be poorly
    &#39;crafted&#39;?  <BR>If technology allows for many kerning pairs, does this
    <BR>render metrics largely irrelevant? I know it is a poor  <BR>comparison, but
    I realised that metal type has fixed  <BR>spacing, which I presume means no kerning
    pairs,  <BR>except ligatures. Was metal type spaced well, or was  <BR>a little
    bad spacing here and there accepted because <BR>of the limitations? <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-10-25 05:21:14'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Kerning, even large amounts, is no substitute for good spacing in the first
    place. It rather complements good spacing. <BR> <BR>Metal typefaces were often
    well spaced, though sometimes poorly. They were probably better spaced on average
    than digital typefaces, because of the amount of work involved and metal type
    creation being a more specialized craft. In particular, the role of the punch-cutter
    in spacing was crucial. <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2003-10-25 05:33:44'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: '&#62;Kerning, even large amounts, is no substitute for good <BR>&#62;spacing
    in the first place. It rather complements good <BR>&#62;spacing. <BR> <BR>aha!
    I suspected as much. So it goes back to Hrant&#39;s  <BR>notion of notan '
  created: '2003-10-25 06:03:05'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: The raw number of kern pairs in a digital font cannot be used as a measure
    of the quality of the spacing. You must look at the nature of the pairs included.
    <BR> <BR>A font may have thousands of kern pairs because the base spacing is poor
    and has been compensated for. For example, does the font have more than about
    150-200 lc-lc pairs?  <BR> <BR>Or it may have thousands of pairs because more
    combinations have been considered and included. Does the font include kerns for
    accented characters &#40;as Thomas mentioned above&#41; or infrequent combinations?
    <BR> <BR>A font may have fewer than 500 pairs because the design and the base
    spacing don&#39;t require more. Or it may have fewer because the designer just
    didn&#39;t bother to refine the spacing. <BR> <BR>It&#39;s often a matter of how
    thorough a designer chooses to be, balanced against a number of considerations.
    Code size used to be more of an issue in the early days; less so now. A commercial
    venture needs to decide how much additional time to spend reviewing pairs of lesser
    statistical value. A line needs to be drawn somewhere. Different foundries or
    designers will draw it at different places. <BR> <BR>For example, my Whitman fonts
    contain on average about 1700 kern pairs. Some may consider that high. But about
    20-25% of those are for accented characters -- both UC-lc accents &#40;V
  created: '2003-10-25 15:32:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Well said, Kent.
  created: '2003-10-25 21:19:18'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Yes, that was an excellent summary. <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2003-10-25 21:29:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Kent, great post. <BR> <BR>What I would say myself is that: <BR>- A font
    with &#34;too many&#34; pairs is usually better. Somebody who makes his base spacing
    bad to the point of needing many corrective pairs is unlikely to spend the time
    putting those pairs in! The habit of looking down upon large numbers of pairs
    &#40;which de Groot has interestingly called an &#34;Americanism&#34;&#41; might
    be nothing more than an excuse not to provide good kerning. Gobs of auto-kerning
    notwithstanding. <BR>- A font with too-few pairs is always bad! Unless it&#39;s
    to make an ideological point by having no pairs at all, like some of Dan Carr&#39;s
    work. <BR> <BR>BTW, don&#39;t forget Ypres, an important name in military history...
    as well as in Monty Python. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-25 21:29:54'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: Kent - thank you, excellent post. That is exactly the  <BR>answer I was looking
    for with my rather wobbly  <BR>questions!
  created: '2003-10-26 01:20:59'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: 'As we&#39;ve said, the raw number of kern pairs is no measure of the quality
    of a font&#39;s spacing. Ultimately, the best evidence is to set text and look
    at it. A well-spaced font will be, well . . . well spaced. <BR> <BR>Generally
    speaking, though, a truly refined font will have a greater number of pairs. That
    said, however, a <i>well-crafted</i> font should still set adequately with kerning
    turned off. Kerning is a refinement of spacing, not a substitute.  <BR> <BR>I&#39;m
    no expert in the subject of spacing, but I have given considerable thought and
    study to the matter. Further to the turn this thread has taken, I thought I&#39;d
    share the following analysis. <BR> <BR>Let me contrast two excellent text typefaces
    with two that often get used for the task but are, in my opinion, not built for
    the job. <BR> <BR>Matthew Carter&#39;s Miller is one of the most excellent text
    faces I&#39;ve had the pleasure to work with over the years. His Fenway is also
    a contemporary masterpiece for text.  <BR> <BR>In comparison, Mrs Eaves and Filosofia
    are two typefaces which recently have begun to show up more and more for text
    in books &#40;heaven forbid&#41;. While I admire Zuzana&#39;s designs and like
    both of these in display, I think it is no secret that they are not up to the
    task of extended text, spacing-wise.  <BR> <BR>I spent a little time a while back
    sorting some AFM files to gain a little more insight into the inner workings.
    I broke them down into the following categories: <BR> <BR><b>Uppercase-Uppercase</b>
    <BR><b>Uppercase-lowercase</b>-- including the odd lc-UC, like <i>cT</i> or <i>cV</i>
    <BR><b>Uppercase-punctuation</b> -- in either order, e.g., <i>&#34;A</i> and <i>A&#34;</i>
    <BR><b>lowercase-lowercase</b> <BR><b>lowercase-punctuation</b> -- in either order
    <BR><b>punctuation-punctuation</b> -- e.g., various points with various quotes,
    etc. <BR><b>numerals</b> -- involving figures as either element, in combination
    with anything: other numerals, punctuation, lowercase &#40;e.g., <i>1t, 7t,</i>
    etc.&#41; <BR><b>accents</b> -- involving any accented character &#40;cap or lc&#41;
    as one of the elements, including Oslash, Ccedilla, dotlessi, etc. &#40;which
    aren&#39;t accented, strictly speaking&#41; but not the dipthongs <BR> <BR>Here
    is a breakdown of the number of kern pairs for each.  <BR> <BR><table border=1><tr><td>
    </TD><TD>Miller</TD><TD>Fenway</TD><TD>Mrs Eaves</TD><TD>Filosofia </TD></TR><TR><TD>UC-UC</TD><TD>122</TD><TD>67</TD><TD>93</TD><TD>85
    </TD></TR><TR><TD>UC-lc</TD><TD>200</TD><TD>277</TD><TD>58</TD><TD>78 </TD></TR><TR><TD>UC-punct</TD><TD>285</TD><TD>319</TD><TD>10</TD><TD>26
    </TD></TR><TR><TD>lc-lc</TD><TD>156</TD><TD>97</TD><TD>7</TD><TD>5 </TD></TR><TR><TD>lc-punct</TD><TD>245</TD><TD>289</TD><TD>2</TD><TD>0
    </TD></TR><TR><TD>numerals</TD><TD>64</TD><TD>129</TD><TD>0</TD><TD>0 </TD></TR><TR><TD>accents</TD><TD>33</TD><TD>137</TD><TD>0</TD><TD>0
    </TD></TR><TR><TD>Total</TD><TD>1128</TD><TD>1359</TD><TD>170</TD><TD>194</td></tr></table>
    <BR> <BR>It is instructive to look at the particular pairs in all these instances.
    I can&#39;t go into them here, but I recommend all those who wish to learn more
    about kerning to look closely into the AFM files of several fonts. <BR> <BR>--
    K.'
  created: '2003-10-26 17:03:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Another killer Kent post! <BR> <BR>&#62; I think it is no secret that they
    are not up to the task of extended text, spacing-wise. <BR> <BR>It&#39;s not a
    secret as much as it&#39;s just ignored... <BR>The good news? InDesign&#39;s &#34;optical
    spacing&#34;, which turns those two &#34;loose bycicles&#34;&#42; into usable
    text faces. <BR> <BR>&#42; Robin Kinross&#39;s qualification of Mrs Eaves. <BR>
    <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-10-26 17:51:34'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: This is really interesting. Thanks for taking the time to put that together.
    Yet, given the spacing problem with Mrs Eaves--a design I quite like otherwise--I&#39;m
    not so concerned with its kerning. <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2003-10-26 18:00:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'I just concocted a bitchen kerning test: &#34;T'
  created: '2003-10-26 22:38:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <i>good sweet wine</i> <BR> <BR>Oxymoron.
  created: '2003-10-27 03:52:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: :-&#41; <BR>I prefer wine ultra-dry myself &#40;same with beer - Asahi rules&#41;.
    <BR>But there are <i>always</i> exceptions - one day I&#39;ll make you my trademark
    Sangria... <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-10-27 03:59:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'And you guys were silently thinking you&#39;d never actually need to kern
    &#34;Yp&#34;: <BR><a href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/europe/3256553.stm" target="_blank">http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/europe/3256553.stm</a>
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-11-10 17:44:21'
- author:
    name: eomine
    picture: 110361
  body: Just FYI, the &#34;Basic Kerning Pairs&#34; file &#40;available  <BR>right
    <a href="http://typophile.com/downloads/"> here</a> at Typophile&#41; already
    contains the &#34;Yp&#34; <BR>pair. No &#34;Yq&#34;, though. <BR>
  created: '2003-11-20 13:02:15'
- author:
    name: fonthausen
    picture: 110499
  body: Another good example is the Trinit
  created: '2004-02-09 12:32:57'
- author:
    name: jfp
    picture: 110395
  body: And why the MS core set seems to doesn&#39;t have any kerning? Does this will
    change in the future? &#40;I think about the future OpenType support of Longhorn&#41;
  created: '2004-02-09 20:32:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Probably to better control the matching between screen and print, especially
    in terms of linebreaks. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-02-09 20:34:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <i>And why the MS core set seems to doesn&#39;t have any kerning?</i> <BR>
    <BR>Georgia shipped without kerning -- an error, apparently --, but as far as
    I know most of the other MS fonts have &#39;kern&#39; tables and some of the more
    recent ones have OT &#60;kern&#62; feature. Which core fonts are you looking at,
    JFP?
  created: '2004-02-09 22:14:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; Trinit'
  created: '2004-02-15 20:36:47'
date: '2003-06-26 11:37:31'
title: '&#42;How do you measure you kerning?'

---
