---
author:
  name: ebensorkin
  picture: 109987
body: "Similar to Joe's wildly popular \"[[ http://typophile.com/node/123 | what are
  you listening to]] \" thread, I ask: \r\n\r\n<strong>What are your top 10 albums*
  of all time?</strong>\r\n\r\nHere are mine.\r\n\r\n1. Brian Eno - Taking Tiger Mountain
  by Strategy\r\n2. Bauhaus - Gotham\r\n3. Daft Punk - Alive 2007\r\n4. T Rex - Electric
  Warrior\r\n5. Royksopp - Melody AM\r\n6. Wire - Pink Flag\r\n7. The Orb - Orbus
  Terrarum \r\n8. Can - Soon over Babaluma \r\n9. Japan - Assemblage\r\n10. Sex Pistols
  - Never Mind the Bollocks, Here's the Sex Pistols\r\n\r\n* Feel free to substitute
  Downloaded music, 8 tracks, singles, CDs or wax cylinders as you think appropriate.
  \ \r\n\r\nAlso, I would have phrased this differently except that the whole idea
  is so tied to the notion of the \"album\" in the first place that it would have
  seemed silly to me to phrase it any other way."
comments:
- author:
    name: twistedintellect
    picture: 113700
  body: "1. Nick Cave & The Bad Seeds \u2013 \u201CAbattoir Blues / The Lyre of Orpheus\u201D\r\n2.
    Tom Waits \u2013 \u201CBlood Money\u201D\r\n3. Johnny Cash \u2013 \u201CAmerican
    V: A Hundred Highways\u201D\r\n4. Leonard Cohen \u2013 \u201CDear Heather\u201D\r\n5.
    Placebo \u2013 \u201CMeds\u201D\r\n6. Tom Waits \u2013 \u201COrphans\u201D\r\n7.
    Radiohead \u2013 \u201CIn Rainbows\u201D\r\n8. Pureape \u2013 \u201CScreenplay\u201D\r\n9.
    Nick Cave & The Bad Seeds \u2013 \u201CNo More Shall We Part\u201D\r\n10. Ute
    Lemper \u2013 \u201CPunishing Kiss\u201D \r\n\r\nWow \u2014 That was hard. >'.'<"
  created: '2008-06-02 08:22:43'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "OK I might give you my own list, but being very subjective (some albums are
    not musically the best ever, but they are in my top 10 for a lot of other reasons),
    i'm wondering how interesting this is for anyone else than me... whatever:\r\n\r\n-
    the beatles / abbey road\r\n- the beatles / sergent pepper's lonely hearts club
    band\r\n- the beatles / white album\r\n- the beatles / revolver\r\n- depeche mode
    / barrel of a gun\r\n- level 42 / level 42\r\n- john cage / in a landscape\r\n-
    ryuichi sakamoto / bttb\r\n- the funk brothers / Standing in the shadows of motown\r\n-
    sean lennon / friendly fire\r\n- the doors / la woman\r\n- rem / monster\r\n\r\nyes
    i know it makes 12. sue me :-)\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-06-02 08:55:17'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Tool: Lateralus\r\nSigur R\xF3s: ()\r\nTocotronic: K.O.O.K.\r\nIsis: Panopticon\r\nNeurosis:
    Enemy of the sun\r\nNick Cave: No more shall we part\r\nEinst\xFCrzende Neubauten:
    Silence is sexy\r\nRefused: The shape of punk to come\r\nNine Inch Nails: Fragile\r\nRadiohead:
    Amnesiac\r\n\r\nwhich does not mean that \"older\" albums are not better, they
    just did not arrive in my head (yet). There are so many..."
  created: '2008-06-02 09:21:36'
- author:
    name: clashmore
    picture: 114206
  body: "Beatles - White Album\r\nBeatles - Abbey Road\r\nBeatles - Rubber Soul\r\nLed
    Zeppelin - Led Zeppelin\r\nLed Zeppelin - Led Zeppelin IV\r\nDoors - LA Woman\r\nDoors
    - Morrison Hotel\r\nOasis - Definitely Maybe\r\nVan Morrison - Astral Weeks\r\nGuns
    N Roses - Appetite for Destruction\r\n\r\n...or something like that.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-02 10:25:26'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "a bit skewed to the more recent, and perhaps not \"the best of all time\"
    but 10 albums i can't imagine living without:\r\n\r\nSarah McLachlan \"Mirrorball\"\r\nRadiohead
    \"Kid A\"\r\nNickel Creek \"Why Should the Fire Die?\"\r\nSmashing Pumpkins \"Siamese
    Dream\"\r\nBeck \"Odelay\"\r\nWilco \"Yankee Hotel Foxtrot\"\r\nHoward Shore \"Lord
    of the Rings Soundtrack\"\r\nBeatles \"Magical Mystery Tour\"\r\nPink Martini
    \"Hang on Little Tomato\"\r\nBjork \"Homogenic\""
  created: '2008-06-02 10:30:24'
- author:
    name: er-minio
    picture: 109981
  body: "Probably I don't listen to all of this daily, but my favourites are:\r\n\r\n1.
    \ DMB - Crash\r\n2.  The Blues Brothers OST :-)\r\n3.  Smashing Pumpkins - Siamese
    Dream\r\n4.  RATM - Rage Against the Machine\r\n5.  Michel Petrucciani - Michel
    plays Petrucciani\r\n6.  Nirvana - Nevermind\r\n7.  Subsonica - Microchip Emozionale\r\n8.
    \ Cinematic Orchestra - Man with a movie camera\r\n9.  Mars Volta - Amputechture\r\n10.
    Daft Punk - Alive \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-02 12:29:39'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Come on paul, from all the beatles albums, the only one you pick is the overrated,
    mccartney's mind-controlled magical mystery tour?\r\n\r\nplease, think again :-)\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-06-02 12:37:48'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "This <em>is</em> hard!\r\n\r\nBeatles - Abbey Road\r\nClash - London Calling\r\nDeath
    Cab for Cutie - Plans\r\nLiz Phair - Exile in Guyville\r\nRadiohead - Kid A\r\nShins
    - Chutes Too Narrow\r\nTom Waits - Closing Time\r\nStevie Wonder - Songs in the
    Key of Life\r\nWilco - Being There\r\nYo La Tengo - Electr-o-Pura \r\n\r\n(This
    is setting jazz albums aside.)"
  created: '2008-06-02 14:53:41'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Miles Davis - Kind of Blue\r\nAlice Cooper - Pretties For You\r\nTerry Riley
    - In C\r\nKarma Moffett - Golden Bowls\r\nPepe de la Martrona - Grands Cantaores
    du Flamenco - Collection Dirigee par Mario Bois / Volume 1\r\nGlenn Gould - Mozart
    - The Complete Piano Sonatas\r\nFred Frith - Guitar Solos\r\nThe Erguner Brothers
    - Prelude to the Ceremonies of the Whirling Dervish\r\nJimmy Scott - All the Way\r\nAnthology
    of American Folk Music (edited by Harry Smith)\r\n\r\nimpossible but kind of fun\r\n\r\npbc\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nAll
    ideas, theories and statements are subject to change without notice."
  created: '2008-06-02 14:54:54'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Top Ten based on the music or the quality of the type and design on the cover?
  created: '2008-06-02 14:58:15'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "In no particular order:\r\n\r\nThe Cure \u2013 Disintegration\r\nPink Floyd
    \u2013 Is There Anybody Out There? The Wall Live\r\nGeorge Solti & The Weimer
    Philharmonic \u2013 The Complete Ring Cycle\r\nPoe \u2013\_Haunted\r\nThe Cure
    \u2013 Kiss Me, Kiss Me, Kiss Me\r\nPrince \u2013 Purple Rain\r\nSnake River Conspiracy
    \u2013\_Sonic Jihad\r\nVladimir Ashkenazy \u2013\_Rachmaninov: The Symphonies\r\nVladimir
    Ashkenazy \u2013 Beethoven: Piano Concertos\r\nDimmu Borgir \u2013 Death Cult
    Armageddon"
  created: '2008-06-02 15:18:07'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "Far too difficult. So how about 5 per decade for the \"Desert Island iPod\"?\r\n\r\n<strong>50s</strong>\r\nElvis:
    Sun Sessions\r\nJohnny Cash: Sun Sessions\r\nLittle Richard: Here's Little Richard\r\nBest
    of Chess records\r\nMiles Davis: Kind of Blue\r\n<strong>60s</strong>\r\nBeatles:
    White Album\r\nBeatles: Rubber Soul\r\nBeatles: Revolver\r\nKinks: Village Green
    Preservation Society\r\nVelvet Underground: & Nico\r\n<strong>70s</strong>\r\nClash:
    London Calling\r\nDavid Bowie: Ziggy Stardust\r\nNick Drake: Pink Moon\r\nRutles:
    All you need is Cash\r\nNick Lowe: Jesus of Cool\r\n<strong>80s</strong>\r\nEcho
    & the Bunnymen: Porcupines\r\nWedding Present: George Best\r\nJulian Cope: World
    Shut your Mouth\r\nPixies: Doolittle\r\nSoftBoys: Underwater Moonlight\r\n<strong>90s</strong>\r\nAir:
    Moon Safari\r\nStereolab: Emperor Tomato Ketchup\r\nLuna: Bewitched\r\nBeck: Mutations\r\nYo
    La Tengo: Painful\r\n<strong>00s</strong>\r\nRadiohead: Amnesiac\r\nNew Pornographers:
    Twin Cinema\r\nAndrew Bird: Mysterious Production of Eggs\r\nWeen: White Pepper\r\nStars
    Of The Lid: And Their Refinement Of The Decline\r\n\r\n\r\nSubject to change daily.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-02 15:20:21'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "In no particular order\r\n\r\nPatti Smith: Horses\r\nPink Floyd: Wish You
    Were Here\r\nRandy Newman: Sail Away\r\nWhite Stripes: Elephant\r\nKate & Anna
    McGarrigle: French Record\r\nNeil Young: Harvest\r\nJolie Holland: Escondida\r\nJohn
    Lennon: Plastic Ono Band\r\nThe Kinks: You've Really Got Me (Greatest Hits)\r\nBeck:
    Odelay\r\n\r\nMore than ten albums would qualify for my top ten, so this is arbitrarily
    narrowed down based on my current mood."
  created: '2008-06-02 16:04:31'
- author:
    name: wolfgang_homola
    picture: 109746
  body: "David Thomas & the Pale Orchestra \u2013 Mirror Man\r\nVainio V\xE4is\xE4nen
    Vega \u2013 Endless\r\nLydia Lunch & Rowland S. Howard \u2013 Shotgun Wedding\r\nBastro
    \u2013 Diablo Guapo\r\nNick Cave \u2013 Tender Prey\r\nThe Gun Club \u2013 The
    Fire of Love\r\nH\xFCsker D\xFC \u2013 Zen Arcade\r\nSonic Youth \u2013 Confusion
    is Sex\r\nThe Stooges \u2013 Fun House\r\nAda Falc\xF3n \u2013 con Francisco Canaro
    y su orchestra "
  created: '2008-06-02 16:05:54'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Note on The Gun Club - The Fire of Love: I mixed the first live shows of
    this band in LA and was friends with them. When Slash Records gave them an accounting
    after several years they told them they had sold 1500 copies of this record. Between
    that and other bands that were screwed over by Slash a class action lawsuit was
    filed that included The Gun Club, The Dream Syndicate and Fear amongst others.
    I don't know the results of the suit.\r\n\r\nLike Van Morrisson said, \"Music
    is spiritual, the music business is not.\"\r\n\r\npbc\r\n\r\nAll ideas, theories
    and statements are subject to change without notice."
  created: '2008-06-02 16:54:21'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "I can't resist...\r\n\r\nGenesis, The Lamb Lies Down on Broadway\r\nThe Violent
    Femmes, self titled\r\nThe Smiths, Meat is Murder\r\nThe Kinks, The Kink Kronikles\r\nYes,
    The Yes Album\r\nJens Lekman, Oh, you're silent, Jens\r\nLambchop, Nixon\r\nPeter
    Gabriel, Up\r\nThe Coctails, Early Hi-Ball Years\r\nBelle & Sebastian, If You're
    Feeling Sinister\r\n\r\nNo particular order. While some of these are absolute,
    about half are subject to change given more than two minutes of reflection.\r\nLike,
    how come there's no Talking Heads in that list? No Galaxie 500? No Willie Nelson,
    no Mountain Goats, no Floyd, et cetera et cetera peter cetera... And then all
    the jazz: Louis Armstrong, Ahmad Jamal, Grant Green, Wes Montgomery, Jimmy Smith...\r\n\r\nAnd
    then, of course, there's always [[http://www.heavydutypress.com/music/box|my music]]\r\n\r\nYes,
    impossible. Top 5 might have been easier.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-02 17:01:21'
- author:
    name: ionsierra
    picture: 115101
  body: "Talking Heads \"Remain In Light\"\r\nTalking Heads \"Fear Of Music\"\r\nEno/Byrne
    \"My Life In The Bush Of Ghosts\"\r\nBilly Cobham \"Spectrum\"\r\nJeff Beck \"Wired\"\r\nJoni
    Mitchell \"Wild Things Run Fast\"\r\nJazzanova \"In Between\"\r\nSly & The Family
    Stone \"Fresh\"\r\nJan Hammer \"The First Seven Days\"\r\nMechelle N'degeocello
    \"Plantation Lullabies\"\r\n\r\nREMAIN IN LIGHT changed my life.\r\nPlus all of
    Eno's Ambient Works,\r\nKing Crimson's \"Beat\", \"Discipline\",\r\nPrefuse 73,
    Flying Lotus, Mosdef, 4Hero,"
  created: '2008-06-02 17:28:30'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "This is fun. Here are mine (also in no particular order):\r\n\r\nJeff Buckley
    :: Grace\r\nAntony and the Johnsons :: I'm a bird now\r\nAntony and the Johnsons
    :: Antony and the Johnsons\r\nJoy Division :: Still\r\nDepeche Mode :: Violator\r\nRadiohead
    :: OK Computer\r\nSuicide :: Suicide\r\nWim Mertens :: Maximizing The Audience\r\nSimeon
    the Holt :: Canto Ostinato\r\nJohn Cale :: BlackAcetate"
  created: '2008-06-02 17:46:05'
- author:
    name: garyw
    picture: 110508
  body: "Crowded House \"Together Alone\"\r\nCrowded House \"Temple of Low Men\"\r\nNeil
    Finn \"Try Whistling This\"\r\nNeil Finn \"One Nil\"\r\nBeatles \"Revolver\"\r\nBeatles
    \"Rubber Soul\"\r\nPeter Gabriel \"Us\"\r\nPeter Gabriel \"II\"\r\nDavid Sylvian
    \"Dead Bees on a Cake\"\r\nDavid Sylvian & Robert Fripp \"The First Day\"\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-02 18:10:06'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "The List (part a): \r\n\r\nBlonde on Blonde \u2014  Bob Dylan\r\nHighway
    61 Revisited \u2014  Bob Dylan\r\nTime Out of Mind  \u2014 Bob Dylan\r\nMoondance
    \u2014 Van Morrison\r\nAstral Weeks \u2014 Van Morrison\r\nWish You Were Here
    \u2014 Pink Floyd\r\nRubber Soul \u2014 The Beatles\r\nAbbey Road \u2014 The Beatles\r\nParanoid
    \u2014  Black Sabbath\r\nBack in Black \u2014 AC/DC\r\nTapestry \u2014 Carole
    King\r\nHorses \u2014 Patti Smith\r\nI Never Loved a Man the Way I Love You \u2014
    Aretha Franklin\r\nKind of Blue  \u2014   Miles Davis\r\nBitches Brew \u2014 Miles
    Davis\r\nIn the Wee Small Hours\u2014  Frank Sinatra\r\nGraceland \u2014 Paul
    Simon\r\nThe Rise And Fall Of Ziggy Stardust \u2014  David Bowie\r\nExile on Main
    Street \u2014 The Rolling Stones\r\nLed Zeppelin IV \u2014 Led Zeppelin\r\nLondon
    Calling \u2014 The Clash\r\nThe Joshua Tree \u2014 U2\r\nAchtung Baby\u2014  U2\r\nPurple
    Rain \u2014 Prince\r\nDocument \u2014 R.E.M.\r\n\r\nRated WN (subject to change
    Without Notification)\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-02 18:37:51'
- author:
    name: heymisterheylady
    picture: 115107
  body: "1. tim :: the replacements\r\n2. ziggy stardust :: david bowie\r\n3. bad
    music for bad people :: the cramps\r\n4. oh, you're so silent, jens :: jens lekman\r\n5.
    the gossip :: the gossip\r\n6. psychocandy :: the jesus and mary chain\r\n7.the
    smiths :: the smiths\r\n8. purple rain :: prince\r\n9. unknown pleasures :: joy
    division\r\n10. the scream :: siouxsie and the banshees.\r\ns.e. myers"
  created: '2008-06-02 19:59:30'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Cassettes, Eben, you missed cassettes!  ;-)\r\n\r\nWith all the other caveats
    that have been expressed (particularly \"no particular order\" and \"subject to
    whimsical change\"), here's my list:\r\n\r\n1. Tubular Bells - Mike Oldfield\r\n2.
    Koyannisqatsi (OST) - Philip Glass\r\n3. Court and Spark - Joni Mitchell\r\n4.
    Bloody Tourists - 10CC\r\n5. Saturday Night Fever (OST) - Various\r\n6. Streetlife
    Serenader/Turnstiles/52nd Street/Nylon Curtain - Billy Joel\r\n7. Birth of the
    Cool - Miles Davis\r\n8. Stoned Soul Picnic - Laura Nyro \r\n9. Spartacus and
    Gayaneh Ballet Suites - Aram Khachaturian (I've got an old Vienna Philharmonic
    recording with the composer conducting)\r\n10a. Still Life (Talking) - Pat Metheny\r\n10b.
    World Machine - Level 42\r\n10c. Indigenous - Dougie Maclean\r\n10d. The Dance
    - Fleetwood Mac\r\n10e. Sailing to Philadelphia - Mark Knopfler\r\n10f. Duke -
    Genesis\r\n10g. (put any or all album name(s) here) - Steely Dan\r\n10h. Bump
    City - Tower of Power\r\n10i. 2:00 a.m. Paradise Cafe - Barry Manilow\r\n10j.
    Let It Roll - Little Feat"
  created: '2008-06-02 20:55:39'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "1. Stain - Living Colour\r\n2. Misplaced Childhood - Marillion\r\n3. Moving
    Pictures - Rush\r\n4. Kind of Blue - Miles Davis\r\n5. Hemispheres - Rush\r\n6.
    Graceland - Paul Simon\r\n7. The Joshua Tree - U2\r\n8. It Takes a Nation of Millions
    to Hold Us Back - Public Enemy\r\n9. Chicago Bound - Jimmy Rogers \r\n10. Tunnel
    of Love - Bruce Springsteen"
  created: '2008-06-02 21:08:17'
- author:
    name: emenninga
  body: "Can't really call out 10 albums, but here are some favorites of mine that
    are different\r\n\r\n The Name of This Band is the Talking Heads (live double
    album)\r\n Peter Gabriel Plays Live (another live double album)\r\n Essence -
    Lucinda Williams \r\n Return of The Grievous Angel - tribute to Gram Parsons\r\n
    Soul of the Tango - Yo Yo Ma\r\n Bach: Cantates pour Alto - Andreas Scholl\r\n
    Vivaldi: Stabat Mater - Christopher Hogwood's recording\r\n I also like the Hotel
    Costes series when working... "
  created: '2008-06-02 21:13:29'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "1/  smashing pumpkins - siamese dream\r\n2/  weezer - blue album\r\n3/  nirvana
    - nevermind\r\n4/  pearl jam - vs.\r\n5/  wyclef jean - the carnival\r\n6/  U2
    - rattle & hum\r\n7/  counting crows - august & everything after\r\n8/  john legend
    - get lifted\r\n9/  jay z + dangermouse - the gray album\r\n10/  bodeans - love
    & hope & sex & dreams"
  created: '2008-06-02 22:08:39'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "1.) John Coletrane, Giant Steps\r\n2.) Thelonius Monk, Misterioso\r\n3.)
    Chet Baker, Bread, Butter & Champagne\r\n4.) Dusty Springfield, Dusty in Memphis\r\n5.)
    Wire, Chairs Missing (also The Jam, Sound Affects, also Television, Marquee Moon)\r\n6.)
    David Bowie, Young Americans (also Hunky Dory)\r\n7.) Funkadelic, One Nation Under
    a Groove (also Stevie Wonder, Songs in the Key of Life)\r\n8.) Van Dyke Parks,
    Song Cycle (also The Band, Music from Big Pink, also Bob Dylan, Blonde on Blonde,
    also Beach Boys, Pet Sounds)\r\n9.) Robert Wyatt, Rock Bottom\r\n10.) The Velvet
    Underground, The Velvet Underground and Nico\r\n11.) Nina Simone, Little Girld
    Blue\r\n12.) Black Sabbath, Master of Reality (also Led Zeppelin, Houses of the
    Holy, also Amon D\xFC\xFCl II, Yeti)\r\n\r\nThis excludes some wonderful classical
    recordings that are not really albums, and also some great vocalists that tended
    to issue hits on multiple recordings. I mean, what was Billie Holiday\u2019s Best
    Album?"
  created: '2008-06-02 23:15:00'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "...And You Will Know Us by the Trail of Dead - Source Tags and Codes\r\nBeatles
    - Rubber Soul\r\nBritish Sea Power - The Decline of British Sea Power\r\nFlaming
    Lips - Clouds Taste Metallic\r\nGrandaddy - The Sophtware Slump\r\nKing Crimson
    - Red\r\nPink Floyd - Meddle\r\nRadiohead - Kid A\r\nSoundgarden - Superunknown\r\nThe
    Who - Who's Next\r\n\r\nA few dozen others belong here too; this is mostly just
    a random selection out of the top 50 or so."
  created: '2008-06-03 00:18:15'
- author:
    name: Adrian Monk
    picture: 114701
  body: "One of the hardest lists to compile, too many get left off, but as it currently
    stands:\r\n\r\nBauhaus // Burning from the inside\r\nBj\xF6rk // Vespertine\r\nDepeche
    Mode // Violator \r\nThe Mars Volta // De-Loused In The Comatorium\r\nMichael
    Jackson // Off the Wall (It somehow manages to get a lot of playtime)\r\nMiles
    Davis // Big Fun\r\nMirror // Under the  sun/Places of Light\r\nNine inch Nails
    // Pretty Hate Machine\r\nPink Floyd // Animals\r\nRadiohead // Kid A\r\n\r\nAlphabetical
    order seemed appropriate."
  created: '2008-06-03 01:35:14'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "How do you choose !?\r\n\r\nI know my top 10 would contain at least these
    two, but beyond this I just don't know how to choose. Part of the problem is my
    listening tastes are all over the map. But if this is some sort of desert island
    list... I'll have to think some more.\r\n\r\nLed Zeppelin, Led Zeppelin IV\r\nLed
    Zeppelin, Houses of the Holy"
  created: '2008-06-03 01:48:23'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "^ I left off Big Star because I couldn't decide. There are lots of great
    groups that didn\u2019t ever pull off a truly solid album too. And then all the
    vocalists that had compilation after compilation because the format was single
    hits. "
  created: '2008-06-03 01:58:33'
- author:
    name: amandabee
  body: "Ani DiFranco - Dilate\r\nThe Arcade Fire - Funeral\r\nBeirut - Gulag Orkestar\r\nBroken
    Social Scene - Broken Social Scene\r\nBroken Social Scene - You Forgot It In People\r\nThe
    Flaming Lips - The Soft Bulletin\r\nThe Kills - Keep On Your Mean Side\r\nNeutral
    Milk Hotel - In The Aeroplane Over the Sea\r\nThe White Stripes - Elephant\r\nWilco
    - A Ghost is Born"
  created: '2008-06-03 02:31:22'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Others have already said it, but... dang, Eben, <strong>this is hard!</strong>
    OK, I won't pretend to pick the top albums of all time and all genres... I'm sticking
    to music from popular genres, and then mostly by English-speaking (er, singing)
    musicians, from the last 58 years or so...\r\n\r\nThe first 10 items are the list
    I was going to post... But I couldn't leave so many other great albums out, so
    I added four more groups of ten. Do compilations count? I've got some in here,
    each followed by an asterisk (*)... No particular order.\r\n\r\nThe Beatles, The
    Beatles (a.k.a. \"The White Album\")\r\nThe Who, Live At Leeds (in any of its
    three incarnations)\r\nLed Zeppelin, Led Zeppelin (a.k.a. \"I\")\r\nThe Ramones,
    Rocket to Russia\r\nDerek and the Dominos, Layla and Other Assorted Love Songs\r\nPink
    Floyd, Wish You Were Here\r\nPat Metheny, 80/81\r\nMuddy Waters, Muddy \"Mississippi\"
    Waters Live\r\nPixies, Doolittle\r\nChuck Berry, The Great Twenty-Eight*\r\n\r\nPJ
    Harvey, Dry\r\nWire, Pink Flag\r\nNeil Young and Crazy Horse, Live Rust\r\nLittle
    Richard, 18 Greatest Hits*\r\nVarious Artists, Hitsville USA: The Motown Singles
    Collection 1959-1971*\r\nYo La Tengo, I Can Hear the Heart Beating as One\r\nThe
    Beatles, With The Beatles (i.e., the original U.K. release)\r\nThe Rolling Stones,
    Beggars Banquet\r\nThe Breeders, Pod\r\nLed Zeppelin, Physical Graffiti\r\n\r\nThe
    Who, Quadrophenia\r\nThe Beatles, Abbey Road\r\nThe Kinks, Ultimate Kinks*\r\nThrowing
    Muses, The Real Ramona\r\nMuddy Waters, The Chess Box*\r\nGuided By Voices, Under
    the Bushes Under the Stars\r\nMiles Davis, Kind of Blue\r\nRay Charles, The Birth
    of Soul: The Complete Atlantic Rhythm & Blues Recordings, 1952-1959*\r\nDavid
    Bowie, Changes One*\r\nLiz Phair, Exile in Guyville\r\n\r\nThe Band, The Band\r\nX,
    Wild Gift\r\nNeil Young, Harvest\r\nBig Brother and the Holding Company, Cheap
    Thrills\r\nLed Zeppelin, III\r\nJoni Mitchell, Blue\r\nThe Who, Meaty Beaty Big
    & Bouncy*\r\nTalking Heads, Sand in the Vaseline: Popular Favorites 1976-1992*\r\nThe
    Rolling Stones, Some Girls\r\nAretha Franklin, Aretha's Gold*\r\n\r\nDevo, Freedom
    of Choice\r\nThe Who, The Who Sell Out\r\nNeil Young and Crazy Horse, Everybody
    Knows This Is Nowhere\r\nThe Beatles, Rubber Soul (the U.S. version)\r\nThe Eagles,
    Hotel California\r\nNirvana, Nevermind\r\nJoni Mitchell, Shadows and Light\r\nThe
    Jimi Hendrix Experience, Are You Experienced?\r\nWarren Zevon, Warren Zevon\r\nSleater-Kinney,
    Dig Me Out\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-03 03:06:01'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "What a fun thread. Just a note on Paul\u2019s mention of Anthology of American
    Folk Music (edited by Harry Smith). This is expensive but well worth it. Much
    of this music is of improvised form and truly amazing.\r\n\r\nJoni Mitchell, Blue.
    (Sigh) I remember wagging that home from Sound Warehouse and getting made fun
    of. Funny, it ended up at my girlfriend\u2019s place. Twenty-two years later we
    still love it. Nina Simone\u2019s Little Girl Blue has an interesting convergence
    with River in that they both weave Good King Wenceslas into the songs. Sad X-mas
    anyone?"
  created: '2008-06-03 03:23:54'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "The Number 1 album of all time:\r\n\r\nThe Fragile, by Nine Inch Nails"
  created: '2008-06-03 03:45:40'
- author:
    name: Shawn_G
    picture: 113838
  body: "My current top 10, subject to change:\r\n\r\nThe Division Bell - Pink Floyd\r\nAnimals
    - Pink Floyd\r\nNo Boundaries - Michael Angelo\r\nStrange Beautiful Music - Joe
    Satriani\r\nFlower of Disease - Goatsnake\r\nMaster of Reality - Black Sabbath\r\nPanopticon
    - Isis\r\nLeading Vision - Gorod\r\nThe Odyssey - Symphony X\r\nMonotheist - Celtic
    Frost\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-03 04:07:57'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "@ Ricardo\r\n\r\n<cite>Guided By Voices, Under the Bushes Under the Stars</cite>\r\n\r\nBesides
    being fortunate enough to see these guys about 15 times starting with the bee
    thousand tour, I was able to pick up Bob\u2019s signed copy of UBUS from his ebay
    auction.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-03 04:25:49'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Hats off, James. You da man! I only got to see GBV once, but it sure was
    worth it.\r\n\r\nAnd as for Joni Mitchell, I never made the connection between
    \"River\" and \"Good King Wenceslas\" until now... Whattaya know.\r\n\r\nI heartily
    agree with your comment about the Harry Smith Anthology... It's a treasure trove."
  created: '2008-06-03 05:33:55'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I agree. It was hard. I actually started with 5 and then had to cave-in to
    10. Like many of you I don't doubt my list might change next week. I am not sure
    why, but listening to Brian Eno - Taking Tiger Mountain by Strategy, made me think
    of it. It just got in and amongst me.
  created: '2008-06-03 07:07:13'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>Hard</em> ain't the word!  I look at everyone else's list, find one of
    my faves, and think \"geez, why didn't I have that on my list?\"\r\n\r\n(Um, except
    for the Beatles -- I saw them on Ed Sullivan and, ah, wasn't impressed. Zep has
    their moments, but not on my list. As we say, YMMV....) :-)\r\n\r\nSome random
    plays from this evening (after the hockey game....)\r\n\r\nPanta Rei\r\nEagles\r\nJames
    Keelaghan\r\nLeonard Cohen\r\nCheckfield\r\nAcoustic Alchemy\r\nOysterband\r\nRelativity/Phil
    (yes, he's a relation) Cunningham\r\nMichel Petrucianni"
  created: '2008-06-03 07:41:10'
- author:
    name: kvaternion
    picture: 110010
  body: "Pinch - Underwater Dancehall\r\nBurial - Burial\r\nBurial - Untrue\r\nLee
    Scratch Perry - Arkology Reel 1-3\r\nAbyssinians - Satta Massagana\r\nPhotek -
    Form and Funktion\r\nKlute - Fear of People\r\nThe Clash - London Calling\r\nJoy
    Division - Unknown Pleasures\r\nJoy Division - Closer\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-03 08:05:44'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Innovati gives me an idea: the n.1 album of all time. I actually find it
    easier.\r\n\r\nmine is:\r\n\r\n(tadaaammmm)\r\n\r\nABBEY ROAD\r\n\r\nby the beatles.
    total masterpiece, musical perfectness, groundbreaking album with the first ever
    one-track musical piece on side b.\r\n\r\n(yeah, you of course have to say *why*
    this is n.1)\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-06-03 08:14:55'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Linda, what I liked about your list is how you split your tenth item into
    ten albums: 10a, 10b, 10c, etc. :-)\r\n\r\nAnd yeah, I too look at everybody else's
    lists, see a record I like and think, \"Oh no, I left <em>that</em> out!\"\r\n\r\nAnd
    heck, I left out John Lennon's \"Rock And Roll,\" and Fleetwood Mac's \"Rumours,\"
    fer instance... and... and... {Drags hand away from keyboard and towards the mouse,
    to press the \"Post comment\" button}"
  created: '2008-06-03 08:34:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Total lifetime plays (estimated):\r\n\r\n<ol> <li>Vingt Regards sur l'Enfant-J\xE9sus
    - Olivier Messiaen: John Ogdon/Peter Hill, piano</li> <li>Mysterious Traveller
    - Weather Report </li> <li>\"Bird\" is Free - Charlie Parker</li> <li>The Inner
    Mounting Flame - Mahavishnu Orchestra</li> <li>Electric Ladyland - Jimi Hendrix
    Experience</li> <li>Aftermath - The Rolling Stones</li> <li>Vintage Hawaiian Music
    (1920s-30s, compilation of downloads)</li> <li>Sonata for Cello and Piano; Sonata
    for Violin and Piano; Sonata for Flute, Viola, and Harp; Syrinx - Claude Debussy:
    Gendron, Fran\xE7aix, Grumiaux, Hajdu, Bourdin, Lequien, Challan.</li> <li>Blue
    Afternoon - Tim Buckley</li> <li>Astral Weeks - Van Morrison</li> </ol>\r\n\r\nSeveral
    of my favourite genres and artists aren't represented, as I listen to them spread
    out over many albums."
  created: '2008-06-03 09:33:26'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>lay back and groove on a rainy day</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's got to be up
    there with <cite>love your neighbor as yourself</cite>. ;^)"
  created: '2008-06-03 11:59:07'
- author:
    name: knownspace
    picture: 115098
  body: "In no particular order...\r\n\r\nScreaming Trees - Dust\r\nSoul Coughing
    - Irresistible Bliss\r\nAmon Tobin - Chaos Theory\r\nBeastie Boys - Paul's Boutique\r\nBrant
    Bjork - Brant Bjork & The Operators\r\nCake - Prolonging The Magic\r\nKyuss -
    Blues For The Red Sun\r\nQueens Of The Stone Age - Queens Of The Stone Age\r\nMasters
    Of Reality - Welcome To The Western Lodge\r\nThe Pietasters - Oolooloo"
  created: '2008-06-03 12:57:28'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "jupiterboy... also some great vocalists that tended to issue hits on multiple
    recordings. I mean, what was Billie Holiday\u2019s Best Album?\r\n-------------------\r\n\r\nthat's
    true. Son House, Blind Willie Johnson, Robert Johnson and Bukka White didn't really
    release albums (at least not in their prime)\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-03 13:55:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I don't know that I have exactly one set of favorites, but I've often thought
    that if you had to choose one album to represent 20th century American music,
    \"Ella and Louis\" would be it. All the best is there: jazz, the two greatest
    performers, the great \"standards\" of Gershwin, Porter, etc. \r\n\r\nIn rock,
    my favorites are Chuck Berry, Little Richard, early Elvis, Beatles and Paul Simon.
    The performers I have loved listening to most are Ray Charles and B.B. King, whom
    I  have heard live whenever I could. "
  created: '2008-06-03 14:38:21'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "\"Ella and Louis\" is pretty classic. Great choice.\r\n\r\nI suppose the
    longer you've been alive and the more wide-ranging your tastes, the harder this
    could be. I can't come up with a definitive Top Ten. Think of this as Ten off
    the Top [of my head]. They'd certainly be on any list of contenders. \r\n\r\nIn
    no particular order:\r\n\r\nEmerson String Quartet - The Haydn Project\r\nJohn
    Coltrane - Giant Steps\r\nWeather Report - Heavy Weather\r\nThe Dave Brubeck Quartet
    - Time Out\r\nPat Metheny Group - Letter from Home\r\nRoxy Music - Avalon\r\nJames
    Taylor - Greatest Hits\r\nTalking Heads - Speaking in Tongues (or More Songs about
    Buildings and Food, I can't decide)\r\nElvis Costello - Imperial Bedroom (or My
    Aim Is True, again I can't decide)\r\nPaul Simon - Graceland\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-03 15:32:05'
- author:
    name: Jason Walley
    picture: 112725
  body: "There are several albums mentioned above that when I read them I thought,
    \"oh man that <i>is</i> a great album; I had forgotten about that one.\" I've
    left all those out since I clearly don't listen to them enough to remember them
    myself.\r\n\r\nMy list would be some arrangement of the following, depending on
    my mood:\r\n\r\nJeff Buckley - Sketches for My Sweatheart the Drunk (posthumous)\r\nThe
    Black Keys - Attack & Release\r\nRage Against the Machine - Evil Empire\r\nBob
    Dylan - Highway 61 Revisted\r\nTom Waits - Mule Variations\r\nThe Rolling Stones
    - Let it Bleed\r\n311 - Don't Tread on Me\r\nMiles Davis - Sketches of Spain\r\nVarious
    - Bird Up: The Charlie Parker Remix Project\r\nMF Doom & Danger Mouse (as DangerDoom)
    - The Mouse and the Mask\r\nPhish - Hoist\r\nIncubus - Morning View\r\nCake -
    Fashion Nugget\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-03 15:33:07'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: So glad to see so much Radiohead, Miles, and Heads in all these lists!
  created: '2008-06-03 15:37:59'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Yeah, Talking Heads should have been on my list too.  David Byrne played
    here at the Folk Festival a few years ago -- just amazing live.\r\n\r\nAnd Bo.
    RIP"
  created: '2008-06-03 15:43:48'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "At the Drive-In - Relationship of Command\r\nCriteria - En Garde\r\nElliott
    Smith - s/t\r\nFiona Apple - Tidal\r\nMargot and the Nuclear So and Sos - The
    Dust of Retreat\r\nNeutral Milk Hotel - In the Aeroplane Over the Sea\r\nRadiohead
    - Kid A\r\nRegina Spektor - Begin to Hope\r\nWeezer - Pinkerton\r\nWeezer - s/t
    (1994)"
  created: '2008-06-03 15:48:52'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "@ Kent\r\n\r\nI almost put Avalon on mine\u2014it plays so well from top
    to bottom.\r\n\r\n@ Jason\r\n\r\nMF Doom is sooo good. What do you think about
    his sending out other people to perform as himself?\r\n\r\nI see a smattering
    of Eno fans, but am I wish more people could fall for Robert Wyatt.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PwXhixbpiD8&feature=related"
  created: '2008-06-03 15:58:06'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I would have to post the \"right now\" list because there's no such thing
    as all time, it changes constantly. But here are albums I never grow tired of
    listening to. I'm sorry I can't get it down to 10:\r\n\r\nClash: London Calling
    (this will never leave the list, it's the best album EVER)\r\nRadiohead: KidA\r\nElvis
    Costello: Armed Forces\r\nJeff Buckley: Grace\r\nJohnny Cash: American Recordings
    IV\r\nSly and the Family Stone: Anthology\r\nBeatles: Abbey Road and/or White
    Album\r\nUntil the End of the World soundtrack\r\nTalking Heads - Fear of Music\r\nPatti
    Smith - Horses\r\nBeck - Odelay or Guero or One Foot in the Grave\r\nREM - Automatic
    for the People\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-03 16:16:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Have you seen <em>The Future is Unwritten</em>?
  created: '2008-06-03 17:47:18'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: My current favorite album is Kind of Blue - Miles Davis
  created: '2008-06-03 18:49:02'
- author:
    name: Dtronic
    picture: 112249
  body: "Off the top of my head:\r\n\r\nThe Stone Roses - The Stone Roses\r\nOcean
    Rain - Echo & The Bunnymen\r\nEmperor Tomato Ketchup - Stereolab\r\nScreamadelica
    - Primal Scream\r\nMusic For Space Tourism Volume 1 - Visit Venus\r\nHouse of
    Love (Butterfly Album) - House of Love\r\nLoaded - Velvet Underground\r\nThe Three
    EPs - The Beta Band\r\nPenthouse - Luna\r\nVarious - Blue Note Rare Grooves\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-03 20:06:13'
- author:
    name: iffy
    picture: 113881
  body: "According to my ipod these are the most listened to, in order (note the ipod
    is only 1.5 years old): \r\n1 Midlake - The Trials Of Van Occupanther\r\n2 Sparrow
    House - Falls\r\n3 Sufjan Stevens - Seven Swans\r\n4 Sufjan Stevens - Come on
    Feel the Illinoise\r\n5 Sufjan Stevens - Greetings from Michigan\r\n6 Andrew Bird
    - Armchair Apocrypha\r\n7 Band of Horses - Cease to Begin\r\n8 Bonnie 'Prince'
    Billy - The Letting Go\r\n9 Chad VanGaalen - Infiniheart\r\n10 Grizzly Bear -
    Yellow House\r\n\r\nFunny because I wouldn't have thought of some of those, but
    it doesn't seem terribly far off of my favorites from the past year and a half.
    \r\n\r\nI'd like to add to the list the following:\r\nREM - Out of Time\r\nI'd
    also consider Wilco, Radiohead, M. Ward, Talking Heads, Luke Temple & Sigur Ros
    in my tops as well."
  created: '2008-06-03 20:32:47'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Ah, another Chad fan!  He's local to me, and a nice guy.  :-)
  created: '2008-06-03 20:35:44'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Keb Mo, Just Like You\r\nRicardo Silveira, Sky Light\r\nJonathan Butler,
    Heal Our Land\r\nMark O'Connor, Elysian Forest\r\nBilly Joe Walker, Jr., Painting
    Music\r\nCraig Chaquico, Acoustic Highway\r\nAndrea Bocelli, Sogno\r\nGuido Luciani,
    Azucar\r\nRoy Orbison, Mystery Girl\r\nSt. Petersburg Male Chorale (Igor Usakov),
    Russian Folk\r\n\r\nAs to the island just give me a plug in for the Ipod, pen
    and paper y una cerveza fria!\r\nMichael\r\n\r\nWoops gotta have at least one
    woman in there... any Anne Murray CD would do just fine"
  created: '2008-06-03 21:39:13'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "Terry Riley - A Rainbow In Curved Air\r\nTerry Riley - Les Yeux Fermes /
    Lifespan\r\nBill Laswell - Hear No Evil\r\nRadiohead - OK Computer\r\nDavid Byrne
    & Brian Eno - My Life In The Bush Of Ghosts\r\nMiles Davis - On The corner\r\nAngelite
    & Huun Huur Tuu - Fly Fly My Sadness\r\nBeck - Sea Change\r\nVan Morrison - Astral
    Weeks\r\nLed Zeppelin - Houses Of The Holy"
  created: '2008-06-03 22:00:02'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Excellent Ch - Terry Riley and Huun Huur Tuu. I saw the show from the Angelite
    and Huun Huur Tu album at UCLA. Really weird. The audience was full of loud college
    students making the ape sound. Very strange but great.\r\n\r\nI was going to post
    a Huun Huur Tu LP but I couldn't make up my mind which one.  I guess if I had
    to pick my favorite LP by them it would be \"The Orphan's Lament\".  If you are
    interested in Tuvan throat singing then may I suggest \"Tuva Voices from the Center
    of Asia\" on Smithsonian Folkways. These are field recordings of the folk music
    that their music derives from. Really great.\r\n\r\nIf you are interested in harmonic
    singing in general then Corsican folk singing is very interesting. They have a
    tradition where the bass voice sings multiple notes.\r\n\r\nOverall I would say
    that my favorite music is by the Roma people around the world. The dispossessed
    always seem to have the best music, perhaps because that's all they have left.\r\n\r\nIf
    you are interested in that then Romica Puceanu (kind of like the Amalia Rodrigues
    or Edith Piaf of Romania) is a great place to start.\r\n\r\nThe film Latcho Drom
    (which I know is avaiable on video) is the story of the Roma told through music.
    It starts in India and then progresses through time ending up in the jazz clubs
    of Europe and America. Really beautiful and a great soundtrack. The film Vengo
    shows the lives of Roma in Southern Spain who are involved in flamenco. Great
    soundtrack.\r\n\r\npbc\r\n\r\nAll ideas, theories and statements are subject to
    change without notice."
  created: '2008-06-03 22:50:35'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "yes, Latcho Drom is a wonderful film and soundtrack. The (opening?) scene
    in India with candles on the tree is one of the most\r\nbeautiful visions in cinema.
    Those gypsies know how to party.\r\n\r\nThanks for the tip on the Cosrican tradition;
    i'm not familiar with that. \r\n"
  created: '2008-06-03 23:43:03'
- author:
    name: somol
    picture: 113622
  body: "Difficult choice. But my all-time-best list would certainly include these:\r\n\r\nU2
    - Joshua Tree\r\nNoMeansNo - Wrong\r\nRadiohead - Kid A\r\nBeatles - Abbey Road\r\n\r\nCan't
    decide about the rest for now."
  created: '2008-06-03 23:46:46'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Rather than list my ten best of all time, I'd rather list the 10 most important
    albums when I was a youngster and playing in a lot of bands:\r\n\r\n10 From My
    Formative Years...\r\n\r\nSurrealistic Pillow : Jefferson AIrplane\r\nAfter Bathing
    at Baxters : Jefferson AIrplane\r\nThe Doors : The Doors\r\nTruth : Jeff Beck\r\nDisraeli
    Gears : Cream\r\nWheels of Fire : Cream\r\nAre You Experienced : Jimi Hendrix
    Experience\r\nHarmony Row : Jack Bruce\r\nEurope 72 : Grateful Dead\r\nHot Tuna
    : Hot Tuna\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-04 00:30:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I'm finding that as soon as I start thinking beyond pop music, which I listen
    to less and less often, this question becomes impossible. I wonder why that is?
  created: '2008-06-04 01:46:15'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Pop music is mostly made for the wrong reasons, distributed by the wrong
    people, and is based on the wrong premise, that musicians should be elevated in
    status. In traditional communities musicians were no more important than bakers.
    Musical famillies served their function, as did the blacksmith.\r\n\r\nThat being
    said, tremendous amounts of talent have been drawn to pop music and some wonderful
    music has been made, yet it <cite>mostly</cite> doesn't interest me and hasn't
    for many years.\r\n\r\npbc\r\n\r\nAll ideas, theories and statements are subject
    to change without notice."
  created: '2008-06-04 02:01:01'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Paul\r\n\r\nStumbled onto Huun Huur Tu while I was looking at Besh O Drom.
    Some how I got to HHT from there and fell in love with Legend by HHT. Neat type
    on the CD too. The best HHT though is the Best Live. Amazing!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-06-04 02:13:47'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I've been a fan for quite some time.\r\n\r\nBesh o Drom eh? A Roma music
    fan? Man I have so much Roma music, from Asia all the way through Europe. My favorite
    from Hungary would probably be Taraf de Haidouks. There is a very haunting piece
    from them where an old man uses a special technique on the violin: he strips it
    of all but one horsehair and then plays the most haunting song you have every
    heard. Really amazing.\r\n\r\nHere's a cool link from You Tube with their piece
    in Latcho Drom. There are other examples there.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BQn6Qb-9mD8\r\n\r\npbc\r\n\r\nAll
    ideas, theories and statements are subject to change without notice."
  created: '2008-06-04 02:36:47'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "My favorite... almost could not find it as it has been months since I saw
    it.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B0KUTj7vNS0&feature=related\r\n\r\nI
    lost count of the cross cultural influences. I think I felt the presence of a
    university marching band at one point.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-06-04 02:56:11'
- author:
    name: dropshadows
    picture: 115123
  body: "Good day folks. Top 10s are always tough. Here's my humble selection, in
    no particular order.\r\n\r\nRadiohead - The Bends\r\nLifetime - Jersey's Best
    Dancers\r\nThe Weakerthans - Fallow\r\nDillinger Escape Plan - Calculating Infinity\r\nMogwai
    - Come On Die Young\r\nPieces Of April Soundtrack\r\nCave In - Until Your Heart
    Stops\r\nTalib Kweli - Quality\r\nAphex Twin - Richard D James\r\nDoves - The
    Last Broadcast\r\n\r\nDjohan."
  created: '2008-06-04 03:38:09'
- author:
    name: number 9
    picture: 112309
  body: "Subject to change at any given moment:\r\n\r\n1. The Beatles - The Beatles\r\n2.
    George Harrison - All Things Must Pass\r\n3. Elton John - Goodbye Yellow Brick
    Road\r\n4. Big Star - #1 Record\r\n5. Led Zeppelin - Physical Graffiti\r\n6. Pretenders
    - Pretenders\r\n7. Elvis Costello & The Attractions - Armed Forces\r\n8. R.E.M.
    - Murmur\r\n9. U2 - The Joshua Tree\r\n10. Sparklehorse - Vivadixiesubmarinetransmissionplot"
  created: '2008-06-04 04:20:09'
- author:
    name: number 9
    picture: 112309
  body: "OK, wait, it could also be:\r\n\r\n1. The Beatles - Abbey Road\r\n2. Eagles
    - Hotel California\r\n3. The Clash - London Calling\r\n4. Lou Reed - The Blue
    Mask\r\n5. Badfinger - Wish You Were Here\r\n6. Pixies - Trompe Le Monde\r\n7.
    The Who - Who's Next\r\n8. The Replacements - Tim\r\n9. Suzanne Vega - Suzanne
    Vega\r\n10. The Beach Boys - Pet Sounds"
  created: '2008-06-04 04:28:34'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> I\u2019m finding that as soon as I start thinking beyond pop music,
    which I listen to less and less often, this question becomes impossible. I wonder
    why that is? </cite>\r\n\r\nI can think of a bunch. I think the idea of the \"album\"
    is a carry over from a 70's rock outlook on the world. That time has passed even
    if it did leave a mark. \r\n\r\nTo ask my neighbor's kid this \"10 Album\" question
    would be to make ( probably ) a very wrong assumption about how she listens to
    music, what it means to her, and even about how she buys ( or doesn't buy ) music.
    \r\n\r\nA person who grew up with 78's or 45s might also have no real relationship
    to the question. \r\n\r\nMy grandfather listened only to classical & opera on
    his reel to reel player.\r\n\r\nSimilarly if what you like is not rock or jazz
    but ethnic recordings, or classical or medieval or anything outside of this recent
    but dying phenomena the question probably also comes across as loaded, false,
    or both.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-04 04:38:10'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "Palace music/Lost Blues and other songs\r\nGuided by voices/Do the collapse\r\nJoy
    division/substance (I know it's a best of, that's all I had, well until it disappeared
    from my share house)\r\nYou am I/Hourly daily\r\nBirthday party/Junkyard\r\nPere
    ubu/The modern dance\r\nCrowded House/Recurring dream (I know, another uncool
    best of)\r\nPixies/Doolittle\r\nThe Shins/Oh inverted world\r\nSufjan Stevens/Come
    on feel the Illinoise\r\n\r\nI know this ignores all the food groups (Beatles,
    Stones, Radiohead, Bob Dylan, U2 blah blah) but if you can't list the albums you'd
    actually put on to listen to because you feel the need to include all the Rok
    klassiks that sit there getting dusty, what's the point? \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-04 05:43:25'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: I don't think that I need to provide a list, but I'm glad someone has made
    a post  that makes us forget ourselves geeking out about typefaces for at least
    a few minutes. Hooray!
  created: '2008-06-04 05:54:17'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "You know those CDs you can find that are a collection of the best of? Well,
    since I find it impossible to list just top ten LPs I've chosen to list these
    top ten artists Best of:\r\n\r\nBeethoven\r\nMozart\r\nRolling Stones\r\nBeatles\r\nJames
    Brown\r\nVelvet Underground\r\nDwight Yokoam\r\nRobert Johnson\r\nAmy Winehouse\r\nTalking
    Heads\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-04 07:55:31'
- author:
    name: kvaternion
    picture: 110010
  body: "I had completely forgotten about \"Amon Tobin - Chaos Theory\", what a brilliant
    album. And \"Venetian Snares - Rossz Csillag Alatt Sz\xFCletett\""
  created: '2008-06-04 10:03:57'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Sorry guys! Here's my top 24 +\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nAmon Tobin - Supermodified\r\nAir
    - Moon Safari\r\nThe Beach Boys - Friends\r\nThe Beach Boys - Pet Sounds\r\nSerena
    Maneesh - Serena Maneesh\r\nDj Shadow - Endtroducing\r\nMadlib - Shades Of Blue\r\nMiles
    Davis - Birth Of The Cool\r\nManitoba - Up In Flames\r\nSufjan Stevens - Illinois\r\nThe
    International Tussler Society - Motorpsycho presents: The International Tussler
    Society\r\nMy Bloody Valentine - Loveless\r\nThe Cinematic Orchestra - Motion\r\nVelvet
    Underground - Velvet Underground & Nico\r\nStereolab - Sound Dust\r\nYo La Tengo
    - I Am Not Afraid Of You And I Will Beat Your Ass\r\nNas - Illmatic\r\nSarah Hepburn
    - Stars & Haze\r\nMadvillain - Madvillainy\r\nThe Loch Ness Mouse - Key West\r\nMayo
    Thompson - Corky's Debt To His Father\r\nThe Lionheart Brothers - White Angel
    Black Apple\r\nBill Evans - Waltz For Debby\r\nThe Beatles - The White Album\r\n\r\n\r\nDisclaimer:
    I love Madlib's \"Mind Fusion\" series as well as almost anything by J Dilla,
    Niel Young, Ella Fitzgerald, Dizzie Gillespie, Charlie Parker, Sun Ra, Dolly Parton
    and Claude Debussy."
  created: '2008-06-04 11:39:42'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "There's so much I've left out. I've got to mention these as well: \r\nRoyal
    Trux, Dennis Wilson, Louis Armstrong, Soul Junk, Bj\xF8rk, Kruder & Dorfmeister,
    Aim (Andy Turner), The Game...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-04 11:52:48'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "some albums/artists that are still missing:\r\nMadonna \"Ray of Light\"\r\nRicky
    Martin \"Vuelve\" (although I might have chosen \"Unplugged\" for \"Fuego de Noche...\")
    and yes, i said Ricky Martin >^p\r\nBob Marley \"Legend\"\r\n\r\nand a colleague
    mentioned\r\nGrateful Dead \"Old and in the Way\"\r\nAllman Brothers \"Live at
    Philmore East\"\r\nLittle Feet \"Waiting for Columbus\"\r\nPaolo Nutini \"These
    Streets\"\r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019m finding that as soon as I start thinking beyond
    pop music, which I listen to less and less often, this question becomes impossible.
    I wonder why that is?</em>\r\nI think because the \"album\" is such a pop concept
    that it's hard to think of other styles of music within this framework."
  created: '2008-06-04 17:06:35'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "And Reggae and its earlier forms thrived on the 45RPM format.\r\n\r\nThis
    Is Reggae Music: The Golden Era 1960-1975 is a CD box set that is worth twice
    the price."
  created: '2008-06-04 18:11:21'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: After a few more days I still can't come up with a list. This really is impossible.
    I'm a mood listener. I can't choose. I would like to just have one of each of
    your lists and that would suit me just fine. Ehe.
  created: '2008-06-04 18:50:56'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Here's a pretty representative 10 of my favorites, most of them older.\r\n\r\nDave
    Douglas: \"Tiny Bell Trio\"\r\nCharles Mingus: \"Tijuana Moods\"\r\nDuke Ellington:
    the Newport concert 1956\r\nThelonious Monk & Pee Wee Russell: the Newport concert
    1963\r\nFreddy Merkle: \"Jazz Under the Dome\"\r\nRay Charles: all the small-band
    instrumental Atlantic sessions\r\nOrnette Coleman: \"Tomorrow is the Question\"\r\nGary
    Burton: \"Genuine Tong Funeral\"\r\nJapanese accordion player Mie Miki's \"French
    Baroque Music\" CD, with works by Jean-Philippe Rameau, Franqois Couperin, Louis-Claude
    Daquin\r\n\r\nExcept for some wordless singing on \"Tijuana Moods,\" there's no
    vocal in this list, in sharp contrast to most folks' selections here.\r\n\r\nI
    found that once I began pushing words around every day (printer, designer, editor,
    proofreader, etc), I could no longer listen to vocal music. I have a handful of
    jazz recordings with singers (Annie Ross, Jimmy Rushing), but I still do not like
    music with words, unless the words are in a language I do not understand. Even
    in the most casual settings. \r\n\r\nI know that cuts me off from lotsa good music,
    but I just have too many words in my head between what I do at work and what I
    read and the talk I hear from people. I need/prefer the abstraction of music without
    words.\r\n\r\npowers\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-04 19:16:37'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I feel the same way for a different reason. I rarely listen to music with
    words I can understand. I also prefer the abstraction. The way I prefer to experience
    music now has changed from foreground to background.\r\n\r\npbc\r\n\r\nAll ideas,
    theories and statements are subject to change without notice."
  created: '2008-06-04 19:45:46'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "This is very difficult to compile! I like Rich's solution, by decade!\r\n\r\nI
    would really need to sit and think about this for awhile to create an accurate
    top ten, but I'll just go with what is fresh in my mind. No particular order:\r\n\r\nThe
    Beatles - Abbey Road\r\nThe Autumns - Angel Pool\r\nRadiohead - OK Computer\r\nAndrew
    Bird - The Mysterious Production of Eggs\r\nJolie Holland - Catalpa\r\nBauhaus
    - Mask\r\nThe Cure - Pornography\r\nJoy Division - Unknown Pleasures\r\nSigur
    Ros - ( )\r\nIron & Wine - Our Endless Numbered Days"
  created: '2008-06-04 20:08:25'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "I can't forget my guilty pleasures which are ESSENTIAL to my own collection,
    and to the history of the western world:\r\n\r\nDef Leppard - Pyromania\r\nJourney-
    Escape\r\nWings - Band on the Run\r\nMicheal Jackson - Off the Wall\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-04 20:13:34'
- author:
    name: Will Stanford
    picture: 114286
  body: "In some kind of order\r\n\r\nNirvana - Bleach\r\nPearl Jam - Binural\r\nQueen
    Adrena - Dirt\r\nPixies - Doolitle\r\nNirvana - Morituri Salutant\r\nMathew Good
    Band - The audio of being\r\nJeff Buckley - Mystery White Boy\r\nSmashing Pumpkins
    - Siamese dream\r\nFrank Black and the Catholics - Honeycomb\r\nPaerl Jam - Ten\r\n\r\nWill"
  created: '2008-06-04 22:06:27'
- author:
    name: jayyy
    picture: 109661
  body: "The Jesus & Mary Chain - Honey's Dead\r\nThe Pixies - Doolittle\r\nPearl
    Jam - Pearl Jam\r\nThe Clash - London Calling\r\nRage Against The Machine - Rage
    Against The Machine\r\nFuture Kings of Spain - Nervousystem\r\nRadiohead - IN_RAINBOWS
    (probably just cos I listened to the rest so much!)\r\nTom Waits - Closing Time\r\nSnow
    Patrol - Final Straw\r\nBran Van 3000 - Glee\r\n---and way too much more to even
    fit----\r\n\r\n@Sebastian - That Refused - Shape of Punk to Come album R O C K
    S !!!"
  created: '2008-06-04 22:53:47'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "In no special kind of order\r\n\r\nShake your money maker- The Black Crowes\r\nBrothers
    in arms - Dire Straits\r\nMingos & os samurais- Rui Veloso (Portuguese band)\r\nAo
    vivo na antena 3- Xutos & pontap\xE9s (Portuguese band)\r\nVulgar display of power
    - Pantera\r\nMano a mano- Resist\xEAncia (Portuguese band)\r\nUse your illusion
    (1/2)- Guns N' Roses\r\nMetallica- Metallica \r\nNevermind- Nirvana\r\nRattle
    and hum- U2 \r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio Fonseca"
  created: '2008-06-04 23:00:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>lay back and groove on a rainy day</em>\r\n\r\nAin't no use in getting
    uptight."
  created: '2008-06-04 23:37:39'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Nirvana - Morituri Salutant</em>\r\n\r\nBootlegs! That's a whole 'nother
    category.  :-)"
  created: '2008-06-05 04:38:08'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> I\u2019m a mood listener. I can\u2019t choose. </cite>\r\n\r\nI am
    with you there. I don't want to be forced to listen to my top ten in order - at
    all. \r\n\r\nBut what happened to me is put the Eno on and it was like an old
    friend. And I thought: \"This really is special to me.\", or something a bit like
    that. I was actually surprised by my reaction.\r\n\r\nIt is gratifying to see
    a thread take off like this. Even if it's off topic for the site. And it's also
    great to hear what you all are into. It will be fun to explore my fellow Typophile's
    favorites later. "
  created: '2008-06-05 07:13:47'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "It is odd how you can hear a recording so many times that it becomes part
    of your head. At some point you stop listening to it because you know it. Giant
    Steps, for example. The difference between listening to it and remembering it
    is almost the same thing\u2014it has been loaded into the meat walkman/iPod.\r\n\r\nFun
    and odd link\r\n\r\nhttp://www.music-map.com/"
  created: '2008-06-05 10:39:46'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Back around college days, I used to go to sleep with a song in my head and
    then wake up in the morning with another track a little further along the same
    album playing in my head. I'm sure I just played the whole thing over and over
    in my mind all night long.\r\n\r\nDoesn't happen so much any more since I usually
    listen to classical now."
  created: '2008-06-05 11:14:32'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> It is odd how you can hear a recording so many times that it becomes
    part of your head.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd the spaces between the songs no less than the
    songs - when you know exactly when and on what pitch each next song will start
    up. Once it's that ingrained, stopping play of the album between songs almost
    seems as jarring as stopping in the middle of a song."
  created: '2008-06-05 13:42:40'
- author:
    name: glytch
  body: "Some more obscure selections. No, I can't count ...\r\n\r\nTalking Heads,
    '77\r\nQuicksilver Messenger Service, eponymous first LP\r\nSmall Faces, Ogden's
    Nut Gone Flake\r\nBlues Project, Projections\r\nJeff Beck, You Had It Coming\r\nPat
    Metheny, Offramp OR 80/81 OR One Quiet Night\r\nBrian Eno, Music for Films OR
    Hybrid (w/Michael Brook)\r\nKinks, Face to Face OR Muswell Hillbillies\r\nMoby
    Grape, eponymous first LP\r\nProcol Harum, Shine on Brightly OR A Salty Dog\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-05 14:46:58'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: "Current favourites\r\n\r\nChic, Live at the Budokan\r\nAC/DC, If you want
    blood...\r\nJohnny Cash, Folsom Prison and San Quentin\r\nKate Bush, Never for
    ever\r\nKiss, Alive!\r\nLed Zeppelin, Physical Graffiti\r\nMichael Jackson, Thriller\r\nMylo,
    Destroy rock and roll\r\nZZ Top, Eliminator\r\nABBA, Gold (compilation, sorry)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-05 22:34:52'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "i went more for the ones that hit me hardest when i first heard them, not
    so much current rotation, tho i still love them all. i have to \"turn it up to
    11\" as they say in spinal tap, and add:\r\n\r\nMagical Mystery Tour \r\nby the
    Beatles."
  created: '2008-06-05 23:32:41'
- author:
    name: sihep
    picture: 112339
  body: "\r\nAdham Shaikh & Tim Floyd - Drift\r\nCluster & Eno - Cluster & Eno\r\nKLF
    - Chill Out\r\nSounds from the Ground - Kin\r\nThe Orb - Adventures beyond the
    Ultraworld\r\nBiosphere - Substrata\r\nRoedelius - Aquarello\r\nCluster - Live
    USA 1996\r\nBrian Eno - Music for Airports\r\nREM - Dead Letter Office"
  created: '2008-06-06 00:27:36'
- author:
    name: Pedro Leal
    picture: 114966
  body: "Absolutely impossible!... perhaps if it was top10 of an specific style or
    this:\r\n\r\nTop 10 Artists: (no specific order)\r\n\r\nPink Floyd\r\nDream Theater\r\nRadiohead\r\nMuse\r\nMetallica\r\nPearl
    Jam\r\nRed Hot Chili Peppers\r\nA Perfect Circle\r\nTool\r\n...\r\nthis feels
    so incomplete that I'll leave the last space for the other ones!"
  created: '2008-06-06 01:05:38'
- author:
    name: Pedro Leal
    picture: 114966
  body: "lol... just realized I only covered alternative rock & Metal.\r\n\r\nMust
    be my mood... Metallica are playing right now here in Portugal and I'm Going to
    a MUSE concert tomorrow. CAN'T WAIT"
  created: '2008-06-06 01:09:15'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "@ sihep\r\n\r\nI might have some of those cluster and Roedelius recordings
    on original Sky label wax if you are interested.\r\n\r\nAnd I love that version
    of King of the Road on Dead Letter Office."
  created: '2008-06-06 02:59:53'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Interesting - perhaps you can \"share\" the recordings?\r\n\r\nPOLITICALLY
    CORRECT: the worship of form over content\u2026\r\n\r\npbc\r\n\r\nAll ideas, theories
    and statements are subject to change without notice."
  created: '2008-06-06 05:44:50'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>Interesting - perhaps you can \u201Cshare\u201D the recordings?\r\n\r\nPOLITICALLY
    CORRECT: the worship of form over content\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nYou bring up an
    interesting point. There is a collector side to it all that makes a fetish of
    the gear etc, which is silly. Being in the middle of life, and somewhat over it
    all, I tend not to question things that bring enthusiasm to life however.\r\n\r\nNow
    there is also a legitimate lament over the loss of information and emotional engagement
    that goes hand-in-hand with increasingly lower quality playback, mastering, compression
    and all that. For example, I\u2019ve been listening to the 4 Men with Beards remaster
    of Chairs Missing. Playback equipment aside, the level of clarity and separation
    in the recording on vinyl is much much better than any CD recording of the music
    I have ever heard. That applies to many CD recordings of music I dearly love.
    So my point is that it IS worship of content, and the form is secondary. I would
    be less interested in buying Scott Walker 3 on vinyl because the digital version
    is really good.\r\n\r\nTo share? Well, we don\u2019t share our fonts, and I tend
    to view the music the same way. Still, I\u2019m usually working on some level
    to get a good process for transferring higher quality vinyl recordings to a digital
    format, and view a good mix CD as a love letter that demonstrates a level of care
    and desire for communication that I believe is worth the effort. What I really
    love is the traditional playing of sides, where people sit around and have a meal
    together and progressively choose a side of an LP to listen to. That is a good
    sort of sharing, secondary to actually playing music together.\r\n\r\nOne last
    point. I find that the ability to sit down and become engaged with music is very
    important. In particular, if I am so stressed and put upon that I can\u2019t make
    that connection there are probably other nuances of life I\u2019m missing out
    on as well. Being a bit anti-consumer, I set out in 1997 to put together a mid-fi
    playback system that would be durable beyond the life expectancy of the average
    rack unit, not cost more than the average rack unit, and have the ability to engage
    me emotionally with the music in a way that would improve the day-to-day life
    of the house for everyone. Eleven years and 5 sets of tubes later, I have zero
    regrets.\r\n\r\nNote: The above mentioned records are part of a payment/gift given
    to me by some musician friends in return for designing packaging. There are 30
    or so recordings in all\u2014mostly Cluster and Roedelius. I like some of them
    but would gladly get rid of them before I move. Being rare and worthy of preservation,
    finding the right home for them is a mission."
  created: '2008-06-06 11:49:12'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "@glytch\r\n\r\nQuicksilver Messenger Service's \"Happy Trails\" is a much
    better representation of their music, which really only sounded good live, and
    without Dino Valente.\r\n\r\nGood to see Blues Project and Moby Grape on your
    list. Add the Butterfield Blues Band, and \"Stand Up\" by Jethro Tull and your
    on to something!\r\n\r\nJamesM"
  created: '2008-06-06 13:17:55'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I don't have time to winnow this down to ten.\r\n\r\nAnouk - Urban Solitude\r\nHuckleberry
    Finn - \uC62C\uB7AD\uD53C\uC624\uC758 \uBCC4 (<em>Ollaengpioeui Byeol; \"Star
    of Olympio\"</em>)\r\nEmiliana Torrini - Fisherman's Woman\r\nGuano Apes - Walking
    on a Thin Line\r\nDeftones - White Pony\r\nKent - Vapen & Ammunition\r\nKrezip
    - Days Like This\r\nLisa Miskovsky - Fallingwater\r\nRadiohead - OK Computer\r\nSiobh\xE1n
    Donaghy - Ghosts\r\n\u041B\u0430\u043C\u0430 (Lama) - \u041C\u0435\u043D\u0456
    \u0442\u0430\u043A \u0442\u0440\u0435\u0431\u0430 (<em>Meni tak treba; \"I need
    it so\"</em>)\r\n\uC790\uC6B0\uB9BC (Jaurim) - Ashes to Ashes\r\n\r\nThis is a
    very skewed selection of my music preferences. I have not listened to full albums
    of most of the tracks I listen to, such is the age of single track downloads.
    I very rarely listen to an entire album in the intended track order anyway. If
    I gave a list of my favourite tracks, favourite singles, favourite artists, or
    favourite performances, you would get very different pictures of my musical prefences
    in each of the cases. And probably get wildly different answers each time you
    asked."
  created: '2008-06-06 17:06:53'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "jupiterboy - I like what my post provoked. Well said.\r\n\r\nTomorrow, and
    tomorrow, and tomorrow,\r\nCreeps in this petty pace from day to day,\r\nTo the
    last syllable of recorded time;\r\nAnd all our yesterdays have lighted fools\r\nThe
    way to dusty death. Out, out, brief candle!\r\nLife's but a walking shadow, a
    poor player\r\nThat struts and frets his hour upon the stage\r\nAnd then is heard
    no more. It is a tale\r\nTold by an idiot, full of sound and fury\r\nSignifying
    nothing.\r\n- William Shakespeare\r\n\r\npbc\r\n\r\nAll ideas, theories and statements
    are subject to change without notice."
  created: '2008-06-06 18:30:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: <cite> the 4 Men with Beards remaster of Chairs Missing </cite> What's that?
    It sounds very interesting. This is the Wire album, correct?
  created: '2008-06-06 19:35:15'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Just one of a few very dedicated labels that are bringing back and cutting
    high quality wax. Oddly, I\u2019ve been able to put in requests over the last
    several years and have seen a good number of them become available. Also tearfully
    received is John Cale\u2019s Paris 1919, and the Sundazed release of Song Cycle.
    Check it out. <cite>As we go up we go down</cite>\r\n\r\nhttp://www.forcedexposure.com/labels/4.men.with.beards.html\r\n\r\nYou
    will be very pleased to see a good selection of T-Rex is on the list.\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-06 19:45:28'
- author:
    name: sihep
    picture: 112339
  body: "@Jupiterboy\r\nMany thanks but I\u2019ve now got pretty much all of them
    on CD (mostly from obscure Japanese label Captain Trip). Hadn\u2019t actually
    heard of Cluster but saw them playing live at the Paradiso in Amsterdam (as part
    of the 'Sonic Acts' festival) a couple of months ago and was completely blown
    away \u2013 one of the best concerts I\u2019ve ever seen. There\u2019s a short
    clip at\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X2hls_s98X4\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-06 20:15:25'
- author:
    name: Richard Hards
    picture: 110084
  body: "I've been thinking about this for days, there's no sign of me coming up with
    a definitve list, and I'm going on holiday tomorrow, so here's a few\u2026\r\n\r\nRoy
    Harper - Stormcock, Flat Baroque and Berserk or Flashes From the Archives of Oblivion\r\n\r\nDylan
    - Blood on the Tracks\r\n\r\nLed Zeppelin - 1\r\n\r\nNeil Young\r\n\r\nJoni Mitchell\r\n\r\nand
    some Gong (for late at night)"
  created: '2008-06-06 22:29:23'
date: '2008-06-02 07:39:05'
node_type: forum
title: What are your top 10 albums* of all time?

---
