---
author:
  name: David Rault
  picture: 112608
body: "I was wondering about Emigre's types. A few years ago they were top of the
  hype, so much overused that they are now paying the price of success; I can't go
  through Emigre's catalog without seeing \"1990\" written everywhere. I mean, apart
  from a few types (Malaga, Vista, Mrs Eaves, Tribute), who can actually still use
  today types such as Triplex, Matrix Script, Keedy, Dogma, Democratica, Dead History
  or Citizen?\r\n\r\ndr"
comments:
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "Some of their faces look dated, but they don't even have all the ones they
    originally started with (i think one was Berkley). They're constantly reinventing
    their typefaces (Matrix II) because I think they realize this. Licko, Keedy, etc.
    were some of the first good type designers on the digital platform, and thusly
    did a lot of experimentation. So I think their type shows a sort of progression
    through the late 80s to now. I guess my answer is yes, some do look dated, but
    I would count on them constantly updating and adding new, more contemporary faces.
    I wouldn't be surprised to look back at any foundry's work ten years from now
    and think the same thing. I still personally enjoy the italics for triplex as
    well as the caps. Those curves on the stems of the lowercase really bug me though.\r\n\r\nI
    remember seeing Citizen on the cover for the movie <a href=\"http://www.impawards.com/2001/posters/black_hawk_down_ver1.jpg\">Black
    Hawk Down</a>."
  created: '2008-06-02 13:48:54'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I recently purchased Matrix II Book to use in a contest entry that never
    got submitted because I got busy with other stuff. I\u2019ll probably end up using
    it at some point, but very carefully, because any time I see it lately it\u2019s
    on some low-budget ad or sign and looks dreadfully awful. \r\n\r\nAs for the 1990s
    fonts, I wouldn\u2019t go anywhere near them. Sometimes I use the Brody stuff
    from that era, but the wacky Emigre types are just horrid. Like the magazine they
    did a great job of inspiring importan discourse about typography, but like the
    magazine, no sane person wants to try reading them today.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-02 15:24:40'
- author:
    name: bruzs
  body: oh man, are you saying that that emigre fonts are horrid and at the same time
    using fonts like brody? :)
  created: '2008-06-02 16:12:34'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Everything that is old will be new again. The 80s are totally hot right now.
    Just wait a little bit.\r\n\r\nI still have use for a few of the less eccentric
    Emigre fonts. I licensed the entire library back in the 90s and then licensed
    some of the newer stuff after that. Many of there fonts are still usable. Those
    listed are the more eccentric though.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-02 22:21:03'
- author:
    name: Chiba Chiba
    picture: 112595
  body: "You're right Miss Tiffany!\r\n\"What goes around, comes around kid\"\r\nA
    90's revival is waiting in line. Be sure that after this neon nu rave trend is
    gone, it will take it's place. Techy\u2014decon here we go again. :P"
  created: '2008-06-03 01:31:37'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "@Andrius: It\u2019s a style thing. The Brody fonts have a really warm futurist
    feeling. The Emigre fonts have more of a dirty anarchic feeling that reminds me
    of all those awful bands from the 1990s who couldn\u2019t stop whining about how
    much it sucked to be white, male, and middle-class. I wasn\u2019t a design then,
    and don\u2019t really want to revisit the era. "
  created: '2008-06-03 04:37:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Being stuck in the 80s / 90s is at least two decades ahead of where graphic
    design currently is, based on best selling fonts... http://www.linotype.com/37/fontcharts.html
  created: '2008-06-03 05:39:00'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: '@James: Emigre fonts don''t strike me as dirty. In fact, I don''t really
    associate many of their fonts with the grunge movement at all. Really?'
  created: '2008-06-03 06:09:56'
- author:
    name: bruzs
  body: '@James: I think its more an attitude than a style thing, maybe that dirty
    anarchistic feeling which You see in emigre fonts is an attitude formed by all
    those awful bands from 90s? Brody typefaces is maybe good, but emigre fonts i
    think is much better - distinctive style, content, meaning, phylosophy those are
    things because of which these faces is so good, and using these fonts is another
    thing. And feeling is just a feeling its a thing superficial, warm futuristic
    feeling today, will be weak outdated feeling tomorow its all influence of context.
    dont agree?'
  created: '2008-06-03 08:29:35'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Well according to me, here are emigre's fonts I wouldn't want to use for
    looking really outdated:\r\n\r\nApollo\r\nArbitrary\r\nBackspacer\r\nBase 9 and
    12\r\nBase Monospace\r\nCitizen\r\nCouncil\r\nDalliance\r\nDead History\r\nDemocratica\r\nDogma\r\nEidetic\r\nElliott's\r\nExocet\r\nJournal\r\nKeedy\r\nLo-Res\r\nLos
    Feliz\r\nLunatix\r\nMatrix II\r\nMatrix II Display\r\nMissionary\r\nModula\r\nModula
    Round\r\nMotion\r\nNarly\r\nNotCaslon\r\nOblong\r\nOttomat\r\nOutWest\r\nPlatelet\r\nPoppi\r\nPriori\r\nRemedy\r\nSenator\r\nSoda
    Script\r\nSuburban\r\nTall Pack\r\nTemplate Gothic\r\nThingbat\r\nTotally Gothic\r\nVariex\r\n\r\nthough
    I licensed and used many of these in the past.\r\n\r\nthat leaves about 10 fonts...
    not much.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-06-03 08:31:50'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Phew! You didn't mention Tarzana there David, so that lets <em>Feminist Review</em>
    off the hook then...\r\n:-D\r\n______________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2008-06-03 11:56:34'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "well, tarzana is still usable i guess... no?\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-06-03 15:32:00'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "By the way, I could also have named all the oversized x-heights fonts from
    ITC... pretty hard to use today as well, thanks to george lois and his total control
    of the american ads in the 1970's.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-06-03 15:34:04'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "@DavidR: Yes, but not the prettiest of faces for running text ([[http://www.palgrave-journals.com/fr/journal/v85/n1/pdf/9400315a.pdf|example]]).\r\n\r\nI'm
    keeping my ears to the ground for the first hint that my publishing colleagues
    might consider a redesign, ready to pounce with some better suggestions...\r\n______________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2008-06-03 15:53:34'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I still use some of the Emigre fonts - Filosofia, Mrs. Eaves, Tribute, Dalliance,
    Base, Eidetic\r\n\r\nMatrix still feels way too 90s (and I never liked it much
    to begin with) and some of the Emigre fonts are just too out there to imagine
    actually using ever such as Variex and Citizen. \r\n\r\nI have not licensed any
    of their fonts in awhile tho. Considered Vista and Malaga but don't like the squared
    off lc 'a'."
  created: '2008-06-03 16:01:44'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "@David:\r\n\r\nAu Bon Pain uses Dalliance effectively, I've seen missionary
    used quite well in fashion magazines, and I think I'd have to outright disagree
    on Matrix II, Los Feliz, Eidetic, Council, and especially Priori (although <a
    href=\"http://virusfonts.com/\">Barnbrook's work</a> can be equally hit or miss).
    I also don't mind the caps for Ottomat, but that's pushing it. I don't think Poppi
    even qualifies,  I think it looks rather modern myself.\r\n\r\nThere is a case
    to be made for a lot of the others; remedy looks like the paying man's Party LET.
    Most of the ones that you and I agree on were made more than ten years ago.\r\n\r\nOnce
    again though, Filosofia, Mrs Eaves, Tarzana, Vista, &c seem to be their recent
    breadwinners, so I'd count on Emigre producing those more-so than something like
    lunatix. I feel as if Emigre has done well recently distancing themselves from
    trendy/fad-y themes."
  created: '2008-06-03 16:26:53'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "Cholla was turn-of-the-century Emigre, but I think it (still) looks fantastic.
    Especially the slab ultra bold.  \r\n"
  created: '2008-06-03 17:53:18'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I also just used Solex quite effectively for a project.\r\n\r\nAnd there
    is a book on my table right here (not designed by me) that manages to use Not
    Caslon - and well. I never thought I'd see that.\r\n\r\nDalliance has unfortunately
    become the go to font for middle eastern/asian themed books. I used it for a logo
    for some Indian sauces when it was still new, but now it looks like I'm a copycat."
  created: '2008-06-03 18:31:45'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I think the Vista series and Malaga are plenty fine. \r\n\r\nIn certain circs
    Vendetta shows well, and I still have a warm feeling towards Journal. \r\n\r\nMoreover,
    I think Brothers is going to last and last. Which isn't surprising given its designer
    and his inspiration which was a solid historical style."
  created: '2008-06-03 19:12:06'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: Like every other foundry with a strong profile, you just have to pick and
    choose, and let them worry about their own shelf life. Cholla, Filosofia, Malaga,
    and Vendetta (tho it looks so small) all work well, stylish and just timeless
    enough. And, I should add, they're still gently priced. Storm Foundry's historical
    revivals also have eccentricities that require discrimination and care. And the
    point above about all those high-x-height ITC faces from the 70s, originally intended
    for advertising instead of regular editorial use--that's true too. You just have
    to pick and choose.
  created: '2008-06-03 19:35:35'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "@Tiffany: Sorry, I need to stop posting before the coffee kicks in. It\u2019s
    not that I associate some Emigres type directly with grunge so much as I just
    see them as important elements of 1990s culture that I don\u2019t really miss.
    Like Nirvana, they\u2019re important and shouldn\u2019t be forgotten, but they
    served their purpose and I think it\u2019s time to move on. "
  created: '2008-06-03 19:50:49'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Ehague, \r\n\r\nI just wanted to praise Cholla as a very usable font. Of
    course, only in moderation, but here and there _very_ usable. Just listened to
    a talk by the designer of it a week ago or so.\r\n\r\nSzabolcs"
  created: '2008-06-03 20:28:52'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Sometimes something seemingly inappropriate can really work if used appropriately.
    Yes, quite a few of their fonts scream 90s to those of us who lived it. But, on
    the other hand, if you take away what we know about the typeface and try to see
    it with fresh eyes many of them are still useful.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-03 22:32:26'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I have to agree with Tiff. In some cases how you use a type can matter almost
    as much as the design of the type. Depending on what you are making. That isn't
    true for every application. Also, this kind of use is a high level skill I think.
    Not every designer can do it.
  created: '2008-06-03 23:00:51'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "\"There are only two kinds of typefaces: those you know how to use and those
    you do not\"\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2008-06-04 00:22:43'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Kris, you don''t buy the idea that somebody can find fresh new ways of using
    a classic ( or not classic) face? I am not saying this is what you comment implies
    but it''s hard to be sure... '
  created: '2008-06-04 03:39:08'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "<em>you don\u2019t buy the idea that somebody can find fresh new ways of
    using a classic ( or not classic) face?</em>\r\n\r\nI don't want to put words
    in anyone's mouth, but I didn't get \"you cant teach an old dog new tricks,\"
    but rather that any typeface can be used well, it's just a matter of knowing how
    to do so. I would agree 100% if Sand didn't exist, but I get the idea :)"
  created: '2008-06-04 05:01:25'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Hmm - yes! It could be "know how to use" is meant in a plural manner.
  created: '2008-06-04 05:16:58'
- author:
    name: ionsierra
    picture: 115101
  body: "Let's see...\r\nI use Eidetic Neo for church-related graphics.\r\nEmigre
    Lo-Res fonts are good for Flash\r\nDalliance Script\r\nSolex is still pretty hot.\r\nTarzana
    also.\r\nAnd so are\r\nMatrix Script (in moderation)\r\nFilosophia\r\nMrs. Eaves\r\nVendetta\r\nBrothers\r\nCholla\r\nLong
    live Exocet!\r\n\r\nOccasionally, I'll get a client who digs the 90's/Emigre style.\r\nNo
    hesitation on my part. \r\n\r\n\r\nAnybody ever successfully use the Apollo \"Elliot's\"
    fonts?"
  created: '2008-06-04 15:17:59'
- author:
    name: Zato3
  body: 'This kind of article should be beneath Typophile. It''s no less than black
    PR. If you have interesting critical things to say about a typeface, then fine.
    But to call or even suggest an entire catalogue "dead history" is not going to
    make you any friends at Emigre, or among those who like the fonts. And makes me
    wonder why you would do it. '
  created: '2008-06-04 17:35:07'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "@Zato: Nobody here is dumping on the entire Emigre catalog, we\u2019re discussing
    whether or not we use some of the Emigre designs in our own work and our reasons
    for making these font choices. "
  created: '2008-06-04 18:08:07'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: There are quite a few foundries who are scrambling to reinvent their catalogues
    monthly to keep it current. I think Emigre has done a great job of that. They
    don't seem to discount their past work and proudly list it next to the new stuff.
    People thought Helvetica was dead and it came back with a feature film. Sure,
    Helvetica is probably more ubiquitous, but that isn't to say that Emigre's faces
    don't still hold a spot in our current libraries.
  created: '2008-06-04 18:54:20'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Hey Zato,\r\n\r\nI am actually writing a book about typography, and in this
    book I wrote a full article about Zuzana Licko's Mrs Eaves, and another one about
    Xavier Dupre's Vista, in which I say a lot of nice things. I am actually in regular
    contact with Ms Licko herself, and everything is fine. I have been one of the
    biggest fans of Emigre since years, I have countless printed specimens, Emigre
    magazines, I receive their catalog and I actually have some of the typefaces licensed.
    I also wrote, and think, that it's becoming increasingly hard to use most of these
    types today mostly because of their success in the nineties, which is not rude
    or bad or whatever, but simply true. Read again, mate, because that is really
    what I said, asking the fellow typophiles around their point of view, which is
    sometimes the same, sometimes very different. I, for example, agree totally with
    Tiffany when she says that Emigre proudly stands by their old designs, and I didn't
    think of it that way before; I came to this different point of view through discussing
    with the clever people around. \r\n\r\nNow, this being said, you subscribed here
    8 weeks ago, and you posted only one messsage - this one. Do *you* actually have
    any interesting critic to formulate? \r\n\r\nCheers,\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-06-04 21:03:13'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "\"Being stuck in the 80s / 90s is at least two decades ahead of where graphic
    design currently is, based on best selling fonts... \"\r\n\r\nWeird, ever consider
    looking forward? taking a peak at what just might be 21st century design/typography?
    No revolutionaries here? just reactionaries? \r\n\r\nI guess this backward-looking
    thing is what they call turn-of-the-century \"future shock.\"\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2008-06-05 06:37:22'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "bieler: \r\n\r\nI guess history bites its own tail... New stuff will come
    along, but 80's and 90's big comeback is definitely on the way. that's human nature.\r\n\r\nI
    think Neville Brody agrees with me on this one :-)\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-06-05 07:02:55'
- author:
    name: Zato3
  body: "This is what you wrote:   Emigre... Are you still using some of them?\r\n\r\nI
    was wondering about Emigre\u2019s types. A few years ago they were top of the
    hype, so much overused that they are now paying the price of success; I can\u2019t
    go through Emigre\u2019s catalog without seeing \u201C1990\u201D written everywhere.
    I mean, apart from a few types (Malaga, Vista, Mrs Eaves, Tribute), who can actually
    still use today types such as Triplex, Matrix Script, Keedy, Dogma, Democratica,
    Dead History or Citizen?\r\n\r\n\"top of the hype\" ....what exactly do you mean
    here? Hype has a negative connotation.\r\n\"so much overused that they are now
    paying the price of success\". Really? So if you do excellent creative work, and
    it becomes popular, you'll \"pay a price\" later?\r\n\r\n\"I mean, apart from
    a few types (Malaga, Vista, Mrs Eaves, Tribute), who can actually still use today
    types such as...\" Right, I see. No one should use these fonts-they're just not
    the hype anymore.\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-05 07:18:49'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "@Zato\r\n\r\nI think someone hit a nerve, but I don't think David intended
    to be disdainful to Rudy, Zuzana &c. I'm a huge Emigre fanboy (proud owner of
    an Emigre tshirt-in Dogma no less), but that doesn't mean we can't offer some
    criticism. I prefer to think of Emigre's types as fashionable. Imagine what the
    clothes from high-fashion designers from Paris, Milan and New York were making
    in the late 80s and early 90s. Emigre was kind of the place where typefaces were
    rethought, and the result was a lot of experimental type designs. Some were successful
    in the short run, some not at all, and some that I don't think that I could work
    without. I'm actually starting to lean towards Mrs Eaves being sort of fad-y.\r\n\r\n<em>Hype
    has a negative connotation.</em>\r\nSometimes, yes. Emigre was hyped and criticized.
    What David is saying is nothing new. I believe Massimo Vignelli and Paul Rand
    would truly have gotten a reaction out of you.\r\n\r\n@ David\r\n<em>I am actually
    in regular contact with Ms Licko herself, and everything is fine.</em>\r\nCan
    you get me a signed specimen book? ;)"
  created: '2008-06-05 14:01:23'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Hey Zato, welcome back and congrats on your second post.\r\n\r\n- For me,
    \"top of the hype\" means \"trendy, successful\". sorry if it's not the actual
    meaning, english is not my mothertongue. doin' my best. looking back at the sentence,
    it was quite obvious, though.\r\n\r\n- When something is overused, it pays the
    price of success: well, yes, it's sad but true. when a talented artist makes something
    which totally fits its era and is overused, it gets so much associated with it
    that on the day the fashion changes, the work (in this case, a typeface) follows
    the path to oblivion and shame. You think i'm wrong? well, cooper black was \"top
    of the hype\" in 1968, and it was the synonym of cheap in 2000. brody was \"top
    of the hype\" in 1987, and you can hardly find one of his types in use today.
    90% of aldo novarese's types are unavailable on a digital format today, because
    nobody wants them; even though he was a great artist, his types were so much used
    in the sixties and seventies that they are now \"paying the price\". it's very
    sad, yes; it is as sad as admitting that it's hard for me today to use typefaces
    i really, really loved, such as dogma or triplex, but it's a fact.\r\n\r\n- who
    can actually use these types today: that was a question, you know. I know i can
    not use these types anymore myself, not because they are not top of the hype,
    but because they have been once. so i was wondering if anyone else can, with success.
    and then I had interesting answers. and then, I had yours.\r\n\r\nhope you understood
    me this time, if no i'll explain again, no problem.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-06-05 14:02:15'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Chipman:\r\n\r\n\"Can you get me a signed specimen book?\"\r\n\r\nmy book?
    with pleasure.\r\n\r\na specimen from emigre signed by Ms Licko? well, at least
    i can try :-)\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-06-05 14:06:32'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: I meant the latter (and was kidding, don't worry), but I'd be very interested
    in reading your book, and hearing what it covers (or who else you've talked to)
    in the mean time. I won't do any post hijacking though.
  created: '2008-06-05 14:18:01'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite> Helvetica is probably more ubiquitous</cite>\r\n\r\nWell... given
    it comes bundled into every operating system, then yes."
  created: '2008-06-05 15:35:43'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: It does seem like type has a cycle of excitement over novelty and distinctive
    voice and then a return to core values and around again as the core values start
    to feel too staid. But the cycle may be disrupted now. Or the cycles may be getting
    closer & closer so that you just have near simultaneous activity in several directions.
    This whole "decorative" cycle has lasted a remarkably long time! Simultanaity
    may have the effect of extending the life of all trends by ensuring that the point
    of over-exposure takes longer to get to. And yes, this is all just theoretical
    waffle just barely related to the topic.
  created: '2008-06-05 18:41:07'
- author:
    name: ilovecolors
    picture: 115038
  body: "Maybe I'm wrong, but IMHO Emigre fonts look a bit undecided, they don't know
    if they want to be revolutionary or conservative, particulary, Mrs. Eaves. What
    was the aim of this project? a traditional font? a revolutionary font? it's certainly
    not a font we needed, and it doesn't have any special background like Baskerville
    did, an special and strong motivation that lead to the font that couldn't have
    been done in any other way. Emigre is certainly special in the experimental field,
    although it's weak for a functional type, as we see in the Black Hawk Down cover.\r\nFor
    a eighties based project it's cool, but Emigre fonts are more like art, and I
    wouldn't be using them for something functional."
  created: '2008-06-05 18:58:33'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I made a book in Triplex last year. I just felt the face served the purpose
    of an indigenous cookbook with it's brusque yet elegant italic. Before this I
    have only seen Triplex used twice on flyers but I must say I live in Mexico and
    was 8 years old in 1990.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2008-06-05 20:01:41'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I\u2019m going to flip my take on this thread and list the Emigre types I
    would still love to use on a project:\r\n\r\nTribute: What a great book this can
    make.\r\nFairplex: This would be great for faux old-fashioned posters.\r\nMatrix
    II: My next business card will be Matrix as a flip of the just-text-in-Univers
    design I use now. And I really want to use the ornaments somewhere. \r\nVista:
    This would be nice for my Earth-mother clients\r\nModula: On the cover of a fashion
    magazine\r\nPriori: As a titling face\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-05 21:28:11'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Ha! Journal is hands down the best thing Emigre ever delivered. Emigre started
    out in the PostScript Type 3 years (the only free font format licensing around)
    and learned the lessons of optimizing for low-resolution output devices quite
    well. There are very few typefaces that actually look better at smaller size.
    Journal is one of them. If it looks slightly Czech, well, it is, can't do any
    better than that. As Goudy said, those old guys stole all our best ideas (I paraphrase).\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2008-06-07 08:43:31'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I've just found this\u2026 :=)\r\n\r\nEmigre typefaces have just been overused.\r\nGerald
    Lange is the one who made the most appropriate comments.\r\n\r\nThere are typefaces
    by Emigre which are milestones, what you consider \"dated\" largely depends on
    how much and how you have seen it."
  created: '2009-01-13 20:23:59'
- author:
    name: Yehan
    picture: 112677
  body: "Hmm..this IS an interesting thread. Yes I do agree that some of their faces
    are EXTREMELY dated..but there are others that I use regularly.\r\n\r\nA rundown:\r\n\r\nMrs
    Eaves - still good for some things, just not setting lots of type in!\r\nTribute
    - Used it recently for an Order of service, turned out quite nice.\r\nMissionary
    - technically useless but appeared here and there as fillers in the now(sadly)
    defunct Blueprint (Martha Stewart magazines)\r\nBrothers - still see it on and
    off...definitely one I keep\r\nBase Nine - seriously, it's not that bad..but must
    be used sparingly\r\nSolex - somehow reminds of Heinze Ketchup. Decent condensed
    sans.\r\nMalaga - don't have it but lust after it anyways!\r\nVista - Not bad
    either... but many sans look like this too:(\r\nDalliance - IDEA mag used it for
    the first few pages of their issue on Book Design in China. Very well used/put
    together.\r\nCholla - I bet it still has uses out there..don't have it so I can't
    say.\r\nFilosofia - seen books set in this, might be a bit too much in novels
    but I used it for setting a coffee table book.\r\nPriori - dare I say this? I'm
    using it now for headers in a cookbook(on CHINESE food mind you) but it works.
    Gill would have been too boring, the quirky-ness helps that little bit!\r\n\r\nThe
    rest.. sorry. I doubt it..but you never know?\r\n\r\nI wouldn't write them off
    completely. They've definitely produced a bunch of gems, and some duds of course,
    but which foundry hasn't? When I was in design school I thought the world of Emigre
    and it's catalogues!"
  created: '2009-01-15 14:56:41'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I was going to make a list of Emigre fonts that I still consider when choosing
    typefaces, but I have to admit there aren''t that many that I wouldn''t. I mean,
    yes, some of their earliest stuff is waiting for a mid-nineties revival, but for
    the most part many of them might work given the appropriate context. '
  created: '2009-01-15 20:15:45'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<cite>Being stuck in the 80s / 90s is at least two decades ahead of where
    graphic design currently is, based on best selling fonts...</cite>\r\n\r\nSimon,
    you are absolutely right. What a weird situation (if the rankings are actually
    correct and not some marketing ploy)\r\nprgr"
  created: '2009-01-16 01:22:40'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Now you explain what you mean by \"dated\", because I'm curious\u2026\r\n\r\nGreat,
    Tiffany. Yes, it's that, for most of them: they were not used appropriately. You
    need to be very conscious to appropriately use typefaces born in the research
    which permeated those years, if you don't\u2026 it's extremely worse than misusing
    a Brush Script or a digital Helvetica.\r\n\r\nOf course, my typeface (Ottomat)
    is \"dated\" to me on a personal level, but just in the sense that it belongs
    to a precise initial phase of my work (I started around 1993), and maybe it makes
    no sense to improve it (funny someone mentioned Ottomat used in all-caps, since
    capitals were always \"out of place\" in Ottomat, which started as a lowercase
    alphabet, many reflections on this\u2026)"
  created: '2009-01-16 13:49:58'
date: '2008-06-02 12:46:04'
node_type: forum
title: Emigre... Are you still using some of them?

---
