---
author:
  name: H_Afash
  picture: 111746
body: "Congratulation!! I think it will be a great group. Go ahead.\r\n\r\nWe all
  know \"[[Simplified Arabic]]\" font which came with Ms windows since the first version
  -I believed-.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SA_4595.jpg]\r\nI would like
  to know:\r\n- Its designer.\r\n- Creation year.\r\n- Any information about it.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\nHasan
  Abu Afash\r\nwww.hibastudio.com"
comments:
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Hassan,\r\n\r\nIndeed, \u0645\u0628\u0631\u0648\u0643, I am happy to see
    a \"mini forum\" on Typophile to deal with all aspects of Arabic typography. This
    will be a nice international gathering spot.\r\n\r\nI think \"simplified\" Arabic
    was developed early 80s for Microsoft by a Boston based firm:  \"Glyph Systems\"\r\n\r\n-Saad\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-06 13:09:50'
- author:
    name: H_Afash
    picture: 111746
  body: "Saad,\r\n\r\nThanks for this information. But:\r\nWho is its designer?\r\n\r\nIn
    Simplified Arabic font information we can read:\r\n\"Portions (C) 1990 Compugraphic
    Corporation. Typeface Portions (C) The Monotype Corporation plc. Data Portions
    (C) The Monotype Corporation plc./Type Solutions Inc. 1990-1992. All Rights Reserved.\"\r\n\r\nHasan"
  created: '2008-06-06 13:23:40'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "I think it was a digital scan of an the earlier print typeface done by Linotype
    in the 1950s??\r\n\r\n-Saad\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-06 13:30:12'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "\u0645\u0631\u062D\u0628\u0627- I too am glad and thankful that Typophile
    has made this forum possible.  I wonder if simpo.ttf (Simplified Arabic) was part
    of Windows 95. Rather I'd like to know more about the first Arabic computer fonts.
    \ Some proposals appeared in the press in the 1970s but what did the first Apple
    or PC Arabic fonts look like?  Whoever designed them had to do a lot of work.
    Of course there was the photo-typesetting technology just before that, using computerised
    input and a monitor, so the basics of the encoding must have been already figured
    out. Going further back, before photo-typesetting the Arabic typewriter had long
    been in use, and it had a small set of glyphs . This may have been the origin
    of the phrase \"Simplified Arabic\". In any case we should salute these unknown
    pioneers and be thankful things have been made relatively easy for us nowadays! "
  created: '2008-06-06 14:37:16'
- author:
    name: H_Afash
    picture: 111746
  body: "Thanks Vladimir for great information.\r\nSaad: Maybe, but how much I would
    like to know its designer or the source of it.\r\n\r\nBy the way, I found Arabic
    characters of Arial font are similer to Simplified Arabic font.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SA01_6298.jpg]\r\nwhen
    we looked at font information of Arial in designers feild, we found:\r\n\"Monotype
    Type Drawing Office - Robin Nicholas, Patricia Saunders\"\r\n\r\nSo, are they
    the same designers of Simplifed Arabic also?\r\n\r\nHasan\r\nwww.hibastudio.com"
  created: '2008-06-06 18:39:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "As I understand it, the concept of simplified Arabic, in which the number
    of variants of each letter is reduced by having isolated/final and initial/medial
    forms share the same glyphs, originated at Linotype in the context of adapting
    newspaper typesetting machines to set Arabic. Only a small number of Linotype's
    Arabic types followed this model (Yakout being the best known example), and it
    was specific to the mechanical issues involved with these machines. It is sort
    of funny, in a bleak way, that this technical improvisation resulted in the propagation
    of a new 'style' of Arabic, subsequently implemented in technologies which did
    not have the same limitations.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure of the origins of the Microsoft/Monotype
    'Simplified Arabic' design. It follows the same simplified model as Yakout, using
    different shapes. I believe it is older than the work on Arial, and was adapted
    for inclusion with that font from existing Monotype sources, so neither Robin
    Nicholas nor Patricia Saunders are likely responsible. It is the nature of a lot
    of things produced by the older type companies that no designer is credited."
  created: '2008-06-06 21:04:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I mentioned this discussion to [[Fiona Ross]], who directs us to her 2002
    St Bride conference presentation on Linotype non-Latin font development:\r\n\r\nhttp://stbride.org/friends/conference/twentiethcenturygraphiccommunication/NonLatin.html\r\n\r\nThis
    is what she had to say regarding the development of simplified Arabic type:\r\n\r\n<cite>In
    the 1950s, the Arabic typeface design [[Yakout]] was developed. It was produced
    in 1956 by Linotype & Machinery for hot-metal typesetting, being specifically
    intended to function as a newspaper text face (dispensing with diacriticals and
    ligatures). With the dual intention of fitting the Arabic script onto a Linotype
    linecasting machine for setting type for rotary printing, and of maximizing keying
    speeds in creating copy for daily newspapers, much effort was concentrated on
    reducing the normal Arabic character set of over 100 characters. Yakout was designed
    in a similar manner to Arabic typewriter fonts created during this period: used
    a limited range of letterforms to represent the full Arabic character set. The
    resultant style of type design became known as 'Simplified Arabic'. The number
    of characters was reduced to 56, which enabled the typeface to fit into one 90-channel
    magazine. A brochure at the time claimed that 'the output of work may be increased
    by as much as 30 per cent'. Yakout was manufactured in six different point sizes
    and became, indeed remains, one of the most popular Arabic typefaces.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    PDF of slide images accompanying the text includes a couple of relevant illustrations."
  created: '2008-06-06 23:55:03'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "John wrote:\r\n\r\n>>so neither Robin Nicholas nor Patricia Saunders are
    likely responsible.\r\n\r\nI agree.  Also, Hassan is right about the similarity.
    The Arabic glyphs added to Arial following the emergence of the web are probably
    the same as the glyphs of Simplified Arabic. This may be true with Arabic glyphs
    in New Times Roman and others. \r\n\r\nI remember dealing several times in the
    late 1980s with the person in Glyph Systems (in Boston) who I thought was the
    creator of the \"Simplified Arabic\", \"Transparent Arabic\" and \"Traditional
    Arabic\" typefaces for Windows 3.1 Arabic.  His name was Steve, but I forgot his
    last name.\r\n\r\n-Saad \r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-07 02:12:34'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Thank you Hasan- this innocent question of yours has blossomed into a discussion
    of the roots of modern Arabic type design! Thanks Saad and John for the details
    you provided. Fiona Ross's pdf has a lot of interesting detail- I wonder if the
    Linotype sample sheet therin is available in greater resoltion?\r\n\r\n>>>>[Yakout]
    type design became known as \u2019Simplified Arabic\u2019. The number of characters
    was reduced to 56, which enabled the typeface to fit into one 90-channel magazine.>>>\r\n\r\nAround
    that time I presented Monotype and Letraset with a proposal to abridge the number
    of glyphs needed to print Arabic using common swash-like endings for final letters
    like beh teh theh, and for hah kha jeeem, etc. I also obtained a patent for my
    idea (UK Pat. 1011006 Improvements in Printing)\r\nhttp://www.ne.jp/asahi/tamari/vladimir/arabictyppatent.pdf\r\n\r\n>>>It
    is sort of funny, in a bleak way, that this technical improvisation resulted in
    the propagation of a new \u2019style\u2019 of Arabic>>>\r\n\r\nI would not say
    that the trend towards what one might also call 'sans-serif' Arabic fonts was
    exclusively influenced by the technicalities of automated typesetting. I know
    well the clutter of those magnificent Linotype machines and their smell of molten
    lead, but the resulting text on newsprint did not appear too different from the
    older letter-press.  Around the 1950's and 1960's there was a surge of interest
    in modernizing the Arab world, and the reform and simplification of printed  Arabic
    \ was one important aspect. For me as an art student at the time the concern was
    for a  modern look to the printed word (think Bauhaus and Gill Sans Serif), and
    that meant simplifying the outlines.  The resulting abridgement of the number
    of glyphs needed came as an additional bonus.\r\n\r\n>>>... subsequently implemented
    in technologies which did not have the same limitations>>>\r\n\r\nExactly, John
    - these days computers can 'do anything' and almost anything has being done!  With
    all these fonts around the need for a systematic and critical appraisal of Arabic
    fonts is more important than ever. "
  created: '2008-06-07 04:08:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Vladimir: <em>I would not say that the trend towards what one might also
    call \u2019sans-serif\u2019 Arabic fonts was exclusively influenced by the technicalities
    of automated typesetting.</em>\r\n\r\nTo clarify, I wasn't talking about a style
    of 'sans-serif', which I take to mean a kind of low contrast stroke model that
    is itself applicable to different kinds of letter shapes (in Arabic type as in
    Latin), but of simplified Arabic in the sense of using a reduced number of forms
    -- prompted by technical limitations -- coming to constitute a new style with
    its own grammar. The actual shape or contrast pattern of the letters used is in
    most respects accidental to the style understood as a system, i.e. the simplified
    Arabic system doesn't imply particular shapes, only their number and relationships.
    So long as the same shape can function as both isolated and final or as both initial
    and medial, then the system is satisfied. Historically, as you say, there was
    a coincidence between a cultural interest in modernisation and this technically
    motivated innovation, but the two are independent: altering the visual appearance
    of the Arabic script to make it resemble Latin sans serif types fashionably associated
    with modernisation does not require simplification of the structure of the script,
    and such simplification can be applied to letterforms that continue to carry at
    least some residue of the traditional ductus (as seen in Yakout)."
  created: '2008-06-07 21:30:49'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: ">>the simplified Arabic system doesn\u2019t imply particular shapes, only
    their number and relationships>>\r\nOf course John is right there.  One extreme
    example of simplified Arabic is the campaign by Nasri Khattar whereby there is
    only a single unconnected glyph for each letter. Individual letters were elegantly
    designed but were not really what can be call sans-serif, and had ornate features.
    \ I am sure Yakout must have had a significant impact on those involved in the
    practicalities of type design and printing in mid-century. I still wonder if the
    need to develop an Arabic typewriter had provided a similar solution even earlier?
    \ A history of type in that period is given here\r\nhttp://29letters.wordpress.com/2007/05/28/arabic-type-history/"
  created: '2008-06-08 03:00:54'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "What a wonderful post! :=)\r\n\r\n<cite> For me as an art student at the
    time the concern was for a modern look to the printed word (think Bauhaus and
    Gill Sans Serif), and that meant simplifying the outlines. </cite>\r\nVladimir,
    could you tell me if somewhere an attempt to design an Arabic Typeface with the
    \"flavor\" Gill Sans gave to the Latin forms (i.e. \"classic proportions\", partly
    geometric but \"warm\", typographically-wise, etc.)?\r\nI am collecting what we
    could call Gill \"migrations\" in other scripts (so far I have bought Monotype's
    Gill Greek, I have the new Greek version of Cannibal Fonts, and thanks to Yanek
    Iontef, his wonderful \"Erica\", which is, say, \"Gill Hebrew\"\u2026).\r\nSo,
    since I see there's such a wonderful ferment and vitality in Arabic type design
    of recent years, I was wondering if someone ever did something like that\u2026"
  created: '2008-11-14 20:27:32'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Pascal Zoghbi did a Gill Sans Arabic \u2013\r\nhttp://29letters.com/new/files/fonts.php?type=fam&id=8\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-15 08:55:34'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Hello piccic\r\nIt is amazing how influencial Eric Gill's work has continued
    to be through the years.\r\nHere is Pascal Zoghbi's Gill Arabic designed specifically
    to match Gill Sans\r\nhttp://www.29letters.com/new/files/fonts.php?type=fam&id=8\r\nI
    show the influence of Gill on both my Arabic and its matching Latin designs of
    my forthcoming font AlQuds here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/50960\r\nI looked
    at Yanek's Erica font and of the three Gilliesque fonts mentioned above it seems
    to be the one closest to the original inspiration.  On the other hand Gill himself
    designed - or advised on the production thereof? - Arabic and Hebrew fonts for
    Monotype at a period of his life when he worked in Jerusalem. \r\n"
  created: '2008-11-15 08:56:24'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Great. Thank you, Dan & Vladimir.\r\nI don't know how to judge properly the
    design choices operated in Erica and in the Greek Gills, since my familiarity
    with Greek is extremely limited, and I have no familiarity at all with Hebrew
    and Arabic. Coming closer to other scripts through heartfelt interpretation of
    Latin types by native designers seems to me one of many ways to get more in touch
    with the wonderful letters of other alphabets\u2026\r\nI recall I quite liked
    the Gill Monotype version, but when my friend Panos sent me the new version they
    did at Cannibal, it seemed more \"cold\" to me. It's also important to actually
    use them, and as of now I have not had the opportunity to do so\u2026\r\nThe work
    by Zoghbi looks good. I hope he will release Gill Arabic soon\u2026 :)\r\n\r\nI
    had a look at your Al-Quds family and I really enjoy it. It's difficult to get
    good bezier curves out of pencil drawings.\r\n\r\nOn Gill: what you say is of
    great interest. In which sense you mean \"closest to the original inspiration\"?
    Are there any work documenting Gill's work in Jerusalem?\r\n\r\nMany thanks for
    the time taken in replying\u2026 :)\r\n\r\nP.S. You live in Tokyo: great!"
  created: '2008-11-15 17:33:30'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Hello piccic\r\n\r\nHere is something about Gill working in Jerusalem at
    the Rockefeller Museum. I have fond memories of that very beautiful place with
    Gill's bas-reliefs surrounding the pool.\r\nhttp://www.imj.org.il/rockefeller/eng/Gill.html\r\nI
    did not actually convert my drawings into bezier curves directly, but used the
    drawings as a background and made new curves which I refined many times over in
    the past year or so. Speaking of drawings I had a chance to hold Gill's original
    drawing for Gill Sans at Monotype!\r\n<em>\u201Cclosest to the original inspiration\u201D?</em>\r\nI
    meant closest to Gill Sans in the way the verticals, curves and are constructed,
    connected together and proportioned. AlQuds Arabic is monoline and lacks Gill
    Sans' variable thickness.\r\nYour website does not show your typographical work.\r\nViva
    Italia!\r\n\r\nVladimir\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-16 06:49:10'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Vladimir, wow, thank you!\r\nSame link of Gill in Arabic: http://www.imj.org.il/rockefeller/arb/Gill.html\r\nand
    Hebrew: http://www.imj.org.il/rockefeller/heb/Gill.html\r\nI have tried to send
    you an email message via Typophile, don't know if it worked\u2026\r\n\r\nSome
    of my old types here: http://www.identifont.com/show?1I7\r\nI worked very sporadically
    on other things for years and I just picked up recently\u2026\r\n\r\nWhat I said
    about your Al-Quds is from a non-Arabic viewer, but I think some modulations (esepcially
    in \"junctions\") is really needed even if you are designing a monoline. In your
    shoes, I'd just add some in the Latin and see how it could work for Arabic, if
    needed.\r\n\r\nP.S. I just found this: http://www.oketz.com/iontef/\r\nHere Iontef
    (designer of Erica) explains his design rationale behind how he infused the essence
    of Gill with his Hebrew letters."
  created: '2008-11-16 12:11:41'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: Thank you Claudio (piccic) I think one can speak of a type International Style
    - simple outlines, no decorations or extras, that corresponds to the International
    Style of architecture of the the last century.  You mentioned the Gill-like Hebrew,
    and the phenomena is also seen in many fonts, Japanese, Thai, etc. etc.
  created: '2008-11-29 01:28:16'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: I'm pretty ignorant about it, but I think the modernism movement (in design
    and communication) quite missed the point of what the features of "universality"
    should be. A delicate exploration, by trial and error, each sensibility must be
    taken into account, said this, no experiment is too extreme.
  created: '2009-01-02 18:54:37'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "<em> ...the modernism movement (in design and communication) </em>\r\nI think
    in this context the operative word is 'communication'.  As type was exported from
    the pages of books to newspapers and TV screens and now to computers, certain
    constraints are imposed on the design. Marshall McLuhan's dictum \"the medium
    is the message' applied to modern typography and one example in the 1960's was
    when Arabic type was simplified to adapt it to the limitations of the Linotype
    typesetting machines. Now of course the 'medium' is so sophisticated that almost
    any kind of graphic communication is possible to display and print, so we are
    in a new era of possibilities where 'anything goes' and  <piccic> statement about
    experimentation rings true. In the end however it is human beings, not machines,
    that read type, and the choice of what is right must come from what people feel
    most comfortable with."
  created: '2009-01-05 01:56:15'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I don't think it was just about \"constraints\".\r\n\r\nThere is an idea
    of universality which went quite wrong, there, and it may be that it was because
    it was a preconceived route with not so much openness, despite the complexity
    of thought in Germany and other European countries.\r\nWhat you say about being
    comfortable is related to this, since a propositive idea cannot establish what
    is universal by preconceived simplification. This relates also to the recognizance
    of universality in specificity, precisely what we lack, seeing what's happening
    in Gaza and situations like that, which in my ignorance I do not know appropriately,
    but that they show how the other is not seen as an enrichment but as an enemy."
  created: '2009-01-09 21:09:35'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Claudio (piccic) This thread was started by Hasan from Gaza, so it is approriate
    that you mention it here. See http://typophile.com/node/53068\r\n<em> a propositive
    idea cannot establish what is universal by preconceived simplification.</em>\r\nIt
    depends: according Occam's Razor the simplest solution is often the best...but
    how you arrive there depends on the specifics of the situation. Sometimes by willfully
    paring down extraneous material or ideas in one step, and sometimes it happens
    quite naturally by invisibly small steps over a long period of time.  We cannot
    generalize about this without giving examples. By 'constraints' I meant practical
    issues such as legibility, that a font for a computer should consider the pixels
    at small sizes, that the shapes of an alphabet meant to teach children should
    be easy to learn, etc. In addition such concepts as clean design by simplification
    may be a sort of fashion, but they have their place."
  created: '2009-01-10 10:42:27'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "That's what I meant, Vladimir.\r\n\r\nI have said \"a propositive idea\",
    in the sense that it's not just the theoretical idea which makes the change, and
    I said \"cannot extablish\", because despite of its good solution, it must be
    \"lived\" entirely.\r\nModern experimentation, even if it produced results like
    Futura, to me, looks like it has been too much conceptual and abstract (as you
    say, you cannot generalize in abstraction, but I wasn't generalizing, but doubting
    about a specific approach which do not take into account the worldwide richness
    of uniquities). Maybe the incorporation of \"post-modern\" philosophy in this
    worsened the problem (I have this strong feeling, as I became disaffectioned in
    Emigre magazine when this happened).\r\n\r\nAbstraction is part of analysis, but
    I think it should be dropped as you work, by somehow getting in communion with
    others.\r\n\r\n<cite> the simplest solution is often the best... but how you arrive
    there depends on the specifics of the situation. </cite>\r\nLike\u2026 hmm, say,
    what's happening with AlQuds? ;=)"
  created: '2009-01-10 12:09:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Vladimir: <em>according Occam\u2019s Razor the simplest solution is often
    the best</em>\r\n\r\nThat's not actually what William of Occam said. The principle
    known as Occam's razor is that when faced with multiple explanations for a phenomenon
    <em>none of which are testable</em> one must give preference to that which involves
    the fewest assumptions external to the phenomenon."
  created: '2009-01-11 04:33:36'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Claudio, we probably agree about this more than our words reflect. It is
    so easy for us to get lost in words to describe our creative processes and attitudes
    to type design. This is paradoxical since type is what makes printed words possible
    :-) I looked up Futura and its sparse simplicity (that word again!) is something
    I tried to achieve in my font.  \r\n\r\nStrictly-speaking you are right, John.
    I was using the expression rather loosely in one of its modern variants (see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Occam%27s_razor
    ).  There is a more appropriate Arabic phrase I should have used \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0647\u0644
    \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0645\u062A\u0646\u0639 (lit. impossibly easy). It is used
    to describe something that looks deceptively simple but is so perfect it is very
    difficult to achieve or imitate."
  created: '2009-01-11 11:16:09'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I've sent you a link to the Italian answer to Futura.\r\nAlessandro Butti's
    Semplicit\xE0, which I am studying to digitize properly\u2026 :=)\r\n\r\nIn Arabic
    the positive simplification seems an inspiring process, considered it involves
    the re-evaluation of Kufic styles."
  created: '2009-01-11 12:43:09'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@John Hudson:\r\n<cite>As I understand it, the concept of simplified Arabic,
    in which the number of variants of each letter is reduced by having isolated/final
    and initial/medial forms share the same glyphs,</cite>\r\nAh, this concept was
    used in typesetting as well. I knew that it was used on the Selectric typewriter
    for Arabic, and presumably on other Arabic-language typewriters as well - and,
    of course, on a typewriter, it probably works better than in typesetting, since
    a letter can overprint the join from the previous letter."
  created: '2010-11-30 20:49:38'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Latin Typewriters had less keys than Arabic Typewriters.\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:KB_Arabic_Typewriter.svg\r\nThat
    was why Arabic was replaced with Latin in some countries?!\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/76305\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-01 02:42:43'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I know that I've read claims that replacing Arabic script with Latin script
    in Turkey helped improve literacy in that country. The argument usually given
    is that Latin is \"more legible\"; people used to the Latin alphabet think that
    some Hebrew letters - and many Arabic letters, at least not in their final forms
    - look too much alike and are hard to read.\r\n\r\nWhile this seems to be valid
    to me, I also think that it's very easy for someone to fall into the trap of thinking
    that whatever he is used to must be the best.\r\n\r\nBoth the Hebrew and Arabic
    scripts omit vowels. This seems bad from the viewpoint of a speaker of a western
    language. but in Semitic languages, a lot of the vowels in a word change when
    one goes to a related form of the word, such as would be obtained by the simple
    addition of a suffix in another kind of language. So denoting the vowels by full-fledged
    letters in line with the consonants would make it hard to quickly see the root
    of a word.\r\n\r\nIn the case of the Hebrew alphabet, some consonant letters which
    were not applicable were instead used to represent vowels when it was used to
    write Yiddish, a dialect of German, an Indo-European language.\r\n\r\nAt least
    in the case of Urdu, also a language belonging to this family, this was not done,
    so there is an additional problem with the suitability of Arabic writing to the
    language in addition to legibility. However, Hindi is also written with the vowels
    as accents to the consonants, so this can't be a very big problem.\r\n\r\nChanging
    from one alphabet to another is a lot of trouble, and for a small future benefit.
    Usually, countries don't change their mode of writing for greater efficiency.
    If it does happen, it is usually because of religion or politics. Thus, just as
    the Arabic script followed Islam, Latin script followed Roman Catholicism, Cyrillic
    script followed the Orthodox church, and scripts derived from Devanagari (including
    the Tibetan and Thai scripts) followed Hinduism and Buddhism.\r\n\r\nTurkey, of
    course, is still a Muslim nation, unlike, say, Malta. But while the force was
    nationalist politics instead of religion, if it hadn't been for a leader who,
    like Russia's Tsar Nicholas, wanted the country to make a break with the past
    it is unlikely the change to the Latin alphabet would have taken place. I don't
    think that such changes could be justified by a rational calculation, except,
    <em>possibly</em>, in the case of non-alphabetic scripts."
  created: '2010-12-01 03:07:46'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Usually, countries don't change their mode of writing for greater efficiency.
    \r\nIf it does happen, it is usually because of religion or politics.\r\n-\r\nAbsolutely
    true!\r\nPoliticians can make the ugly look beautiful and make the beautiful look
    ugly?!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1dollarmalaya_6225.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/10cents1941malaya_3451.jpg]"
  created: '2010-12-12 01:59:34'
- author:
    name: khalid
    picture: 121506
  body: "As typographers (and typohiles), we discredit ourselves when we link Arabic
    script with the levels of illiteracy in the Arabic script using world. Having
    worked in the area of poverty for over 12 years, I know that illiteracy is the
    product of more serious social and economic factors. I encourage those interested
    in illiteracy in the Arab world, and indeed, in illiteracy in the world in general,
    to familiarize themselves more with Poverty issues and the Millennium Development
    Goals.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/literacy-small_5945.jpg]\r\n\r\nIt
    is actually unfair to blame the Arabic script for illiteracy. In fact, if the
    Arabic script has anything do with literacy levels, it should be in a positive
    way for the intrinsic powers that the Arabic script has.\r\n\r\nTo start with,
    Arabic script might be the closest script that represents the way the language
    is spoken. The omission of the short vowels that are represented in the writing
    system as diacritics still renders Arabic text completely readable, and indeed
    very compact. In my blog writing, as an example, ([[http://arabictype.wordpress.com]]),
    I only use the Dhamma to disambiguate passive voice, and the tanween as an embellishment.
    An additional diacritic that I use is the shadda (which is not a short vowel).
    Arabic journalistic writing today does away with all three with no complaints
    about the clarity of meaning or the linguistic quality.\r\n[[http://arabictype.files.wordpress.com/2010/02/alhawadeth.jpg]]\r\n\r\nArabic
    spelling is relatively easy and is somewhat forgiving. The major difficulty in
    Arabic spelling is probably only with the way that the hamza is represented. Writing
    \ \u0645\u0633\u0626\u0648\u0644\u064A\u0629 instead of \u0645\u0633\u0624\u0648\u0644\u064A\u0629
    does not look as silly or unprofessional (in professional writing) as spelling
    mistakes would be in English writing.\r\n\r\nArabic handwriting is close to the
    printed script, and the compact ruq\u2019aa-based handwriting style is probably
    the ultimate in its flow and its balanced mix of catenation and separation.\r\n[[http://arabictype.wordpress.com/2010/03/25/arabic-handwriting]]\r\n\r\nOn
    the readability of the Arabic script, I have to say now that I \u201Cbelieve\u201D
    that it also very easy to read. This is mostly because of the catenation of letters,
    the wide variation of letter shapes, and the form of terminal letters. These characteristics
    contribute to easy recognition within saccades as the eyes scan the text. I am
    hoping to validate my \u201Cbelief\u201D with an empirical study if I could. I
    honestly encourage those who could afford doing legibility and readability studies
    to generate more knowledge in this area.\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-20 08:52:56'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: Khalid, welcome to the Typophile Arabic Typography and Type Design Special
    Interest Group. A group of us Arabic typographers (who were associated with the
    Tasmeem software fonts released by Winsoft) made a big effort to start this Group
    a few years ago. That was partly in response to the Matchmaking program some aspects
    of which threatened to take Arabic type design in the wrong direction. I find
    your defense of Arabic script above and in your blog encouraging and refreshing.
    During the past few years I was really depressed by the recent trends to Latinize
    Arabic typography with squared up shapes and even with serifs! This is an unhealthy
    trend that you have called 'touristic' in your blog. The genius of Arabic script
    is in its compactness and richness of forms that create unique word-shapes that
    are indeed helpful for legibility. In [[http://www.ne.jp/asahi/tamari/vladimir/harfalquds1974article.html|this
    article that published in 1971]] I pointed out that in  Arabic types the dots
    tended to become smaller and smaller at the expense of legibility.  One very 'popular'
    (ie default) Microsoft  Arabic font is scandalous in this respect with dots so
    tiny they might as well not be there. Nadine Chahine of Linotype was doing her
    PhD thesis on the legibility of Arabic type. I wonder what her conclusions will
    be, as she is in a position to promote Arabic typography in the right direction.
  created: '2011-01-21 13:54:30'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@khalid:\r\n<cite>As typographers (and typohiles), we discredit ourselves
    when we link Arabic script with the levels of illiteracy in the Arabic script
    using world. Having worked in the area of poverty for over 12 years, I know that
    illiteracy is the product of more serious social and economic factors.</cite>\r\n\r\nEven
    <em>if</em> the common attitude of users of the Latin alphabet that Arabic has
    legibility problems is entirely correct, of course it is really the social and
    economic factors that are the primary cause of illiteracy. The example of Japan
    proves this.\r\n\r\nThe people who blamed China's writing system for widespread
    illiteracy in China were not, by doing so, claiming that it was impossible for
    the average person to learn to read and write in Chinese characters. They were
    <em>merely</em> claiming that, given China's poverty, learning to read and write
    properly with Chinese characters would not be possible given the limited amount
    of formal education with which China was capable of providing its citizens.\r\n\r\nIf
    the English-speaking countries were as poor as China was, it would be just as
    possible for someone to observe that the system of English spelling was such as
    to ensure that only the wealthy elite could afford to keep their children in school
    long enough to learn to spell properly.\r\n\r\nAs you note, Arabic writing is
    a close match to Arabic phonology. Thus, full literacy, the ability to express
    oneself in writing as well as to passively read, should indeed be as easy to obtain
    in Arabic as in Finnish or Italian, instead of as in English or Chinese.\r\n\r\nAnd,
    of course, typewriters and even printing presses are recent inventions.\r\n\r\nOne
    can indeed make the claim that different letters in the Arabic alphabet are objectively
    hard to distinguish. If one is talking about Naksh <em>as it is usually typeset</em>,
    in forms that have been stripped down to be compatible with mechanization designed
    around the Latin alphabet.\r\n\r\nThus, in Pakistan, where the newspapers had
    been prepared by calligraphers instead of typesetters, because of the national
    preference for Nastaliq', rather than being quaintly primitive, as Westerners
    would assume on first impulse, they have the right idea. Preferring Nastaliq'
    is as rational for people in Pakistan as preferring newspapers in 8-point type
    instead of 6-point type is for English speakers.\r\n\r\nThus, if there is anything
    about Arabic script that promotes illiteracy, it is the fact that it is ill-suited
    to the hand-me-down printing and typesetting equipment from the West the Arab
    world has had to make do with until recently.\r\n\r\nBut \"illiterate\" is not
    the right word for a literate person whose eyesight simply cannot cope with common
    printed matter - although a dearth of readable printed matter certainly can contribute
    to real illiteracy."
  created: '2011-01-21 14:29:05'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "@ quadiblock \"-Thus, if there is anything about Arabic script that promotes
    illiteracy, it is the fact that it is ill-suited to the hand-me-down printing
    and typesetting equipment from the West the Arab world has had to make do with
    until recently.\"\r\n\r\nThe fact that Arabic it is right-to-left is certainly
    a problem in some software that has not been properly programmed for that.   As
    to more traditional methods there was no insolvable problem in metal typesetting,
    or typewriters, or Linotype machines that hindered the use of printed Arabic.
    Indeed as the example of Japan you cited shows (something like 99% literacy despite
    a devilishly difficult writing system) other factors are responsible for illiteracy
    in the Arab World. But good type design will certainly help. And bad teaching
    methods do not  [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ywb0YgQzbHI&feature=player_embedded|
    see how this poor Jordanian kid is being taught how to write the Arabic numeral
    nine]]"
  created: '2011-01-22 04:05:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Khalid: <em>The omission of the short vowels that are represented in the
    writing system as diacritics still renders Arabic text completely readable, and
    indeed very compact.</em>\r\n\r\nHowever, one of the few things that have been
    determined about Arabic script through systematic empirical testing is that reading
    accuracy (measured in terms of fewer reversed saccades and comprehension testing)
    is improved when the vowel diacritics are included. This shouldn't surprise us:
    when more linguistic information is available, we read more accurately. The fact
    that mature readers are also able to read reasonably accurately when the text
    is not fully vocalised says more about the amazing human cognitive capacity than
    it does about the virtues of the script."
  created: '2011-01-22 04:05:12'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "@ Vladimir,  I pointed out that in Arabic types the dots tended to become
    smaller and smaller at the expense of legibility. \r\n\r\nThat's why the dotted
    read dotless at smaller sizes. Solving this problem, \r\nwe have made it possible
    to change dot size independently of font size.\r\nSee the word Graphic at the
    bottom of this page:\r\nhttp://www.maryamsoft.com/Default.aspx?Page=TopFont\r\nThat's
    is the exclusive virtue of Arabic script.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-22 06:50:51'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "@ Vladimir \u2026 other factors are responsible for illiteracy in the Arab
    World.\r\n-\r\nNationalism , Democracy +  deviated teachings + practices of Western-backed
    Rulers.\r\nhttp://almanar.com.lb/NewsSite/NewsDetails.aspx?id=170949&language=en\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-22 06:58:31'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "@ John Hudson, The fact that mature readers are also able to read reasonably
    accurately when the text is not fully vocalised says more about the amazing human
    cognitive capacity than it does about the virtues of the script.\r\n-\r\nMore
    Accurately, The fact that mature readers are also able to read reasonably accurately
    when the text is NOT VOCALIZED AT All* says more about the amazing human cognitive
    capacity than it does about the virtues of the ARABIC + JAWI script.\r\nhttp://wardahadnin.blogspot.com/2011/01/pertandingan-menulis-artikel-dalam.html\r\n-\r\n*
    NOT VOCALIZED AT All + All Hamazs over + below Alifs  are dropped.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-22 07:27:26'
- author:
    name: khalid
    picture: 121506
  body: "Thanks, Vladimir.\r\n\r\nIt is really exciting, and somewhat challenging,
    to be part of these discussions. For a small post, one has to face up to the downpour
    of intellect that comes in response. I hope I have the means and time to be up
    to it. I also think that it is an exciting time to be around in the field of Arabic
    Typography at large. There is so much to be done about it.\r\n\r\nIn transferring
    to type using Western technology, Arabic script might have not retained its original
    calligraphic elegance and has been adulterated with the \u201Cincompatible\u201D
    system as some have commented. But the influence of this technology is inevitable,
    and to me it is even welcome. As a designer of Arabic type, I see my role in adapting
    the writing system to the new technologies, and not necessarily in a defensive
    or reductionist manner. There is scope for much innovation in the adaptation process
    and it is very possible to come out with products that are useful, relevant, and
    expressive of our times.\r\n\r\nThe Simplified Arabic approach seems reasonable
    to me. It has served its purpose in its application in metal type, and has even
    helped in reintroducing classical Arabic to the masses. It is still offering a
    viable solution for using the Arabic script in modern digital technology. Computer
    applications, such as Tasmeem, which try to bring in the calligraphic elegance
    of Arabic script, show the way to many possibilities.\r\n\r\n>> John Hudson: \u201Creading
    accuracy (measured in terms of fewer reversed saccades and comprehension testing)
    is improved when the vowel diacritics are included.\u201D\r\n\r\nThe finding,
    in fact, does not surprise me and seems logical. However, I don\u2019t know how
    that lab-controlled finding would apply to contemporary usage of printed or hand
    written Arabic text. Diacritics are now only used in exacting texts such as that
    of the Quran. Most contemporary writing is devoid of diacritic marking, and I
    had already cited an example of modern journalistic Arabic. But you know what,
    I am already visualizing that moving news subtitle on the BBC Arabic TV channel
    with diacritcs.\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-22 08:44:23'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "@ Khalid, I see my role in adapting the writing system to the new technologies,
    \r\n-\r\nI see my role in adapting new technologies to the writing system.\r\nhttp://graphics4arab.com/showthread.php?t=4515&page=1\r\nhttp://graphics4arab.com/showthread.php?t=4515&page=2\r\nhttp://70.32.105.174/node/48495\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-22 08:58:22'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Aziz Mostafa:\r\n<cite>Nationalism , Democracy + deviated teachings + practices
    of Western-backed Rulers.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's a very strange list of problems.\r\n\r\nNot
    that it is controversial that many of the rulers in the Middle East that have
    the support of the United States are anything but democratic.\r\n\r\nIt appears,
    though, that you are bringing up politics. I'm not sure what you mean by \"deviated
    teachings\". If I were confident that \"true\" Islam was in total opposition to
    terrorism, then it would be easy to see a return to true Islamic values as being
    beneficial.\r\n\r\nSince the terrorists are just a very few individuals, it should
    be easy to see that terrorism has nothing to do with Islam. What causes the confusion?
    Jihad is supposed to be the armed resistance of Muslims to persecution; that Muslims
    reserve the right to defend themselves is hardly a legitimate charge against Islam.\r\n\r\nWhy
    many people in the West suspect that Islam itself is part of the problem is that
    they are unsure whether the following things, which seem to have broad popular
    support in the Islamic world, and which seem to be part of Shari'a, belong in
    the category of \"deviated teachings\", or are genuinely part of Islam:\r\n\r\n*
    a subordinate status for non-Muslim minorities in majority-Muslim nations. (This
    is a serious problem because this subordination includes reduced access to legal
    protection against acts of violence.)\r\n\r\n* the use of force in response to
    blasphemy against the Prophet Muhammad. (The Miss World riots in Nigeria, or the
    false charges against Asia Bibi in Pakistan illustrate the problem with this.)\r\n\r\nThe
    reason the West supports Israel, instead of viewing its existence as a simple
    theft of land from the people of Palestine, is because the partition of Palestine
    in 1947 is believed to have been due to violence against Jews there, and it is
    believed that a one-state solution for Palestine would imply that the Jews would
    suffer persecution (specifically that a sexual assault by an Arab against a Jew
    would not be responded to in the same manner as a sexual assault by a Jew against
    an Arab: recent events in Egypt involving the Coptic Christian minority illustrate
    what is feared).\r\n\r\nIs Islam compatible with the principles set forth in the
    First Amendment? Only if the answer can be an unequivocal \"Yes!\" will it not
    be suspected of being part of the problem."
  created: '2011-01-22 17:02:36'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Quadibloc, your questions are partially answered here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/53099?page=2#comment-322450\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/53099?page1#comment-320686\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/53099?page1#comment-321741\r\nNeed
    more?!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-23 10:12:04'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "@Aziz  Greetings. The link to Mariam software is STILL only in Persian I
    checked it out two years ago!! Control of dot size independently would be very
    interesting. BTW what happened to your flowers?\r\n\r\n@John  Greetings!\r\n\r\n@Khalid
    Thanks we are probably in agreement on all issues.  Your concern seems to be in
    combating illiteracy and indeed a simpler font would be best for the purpose.
    What should be avoided at all costs are the newfangled fonts in which many letters
    resemble each other - the dal has the same shape as the middle Ha, the meem as
    the middle 'Ain and so forth (trying to make Arabic look 'squarish' and with a
    uniform 'x-height' like Latin). In my AlQuds font one of the chief concern was
    to find the most common or generic form of each letter, and to maximize the difference
    between them, yet retain overall harmony.  \r\n\r\n@quadibloc, Aziz  it is true
    that politics is often the root cause of social and educational problems, but
    it is wildly off-topic here!"
  created: '2011-01-23 12:56:26'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "@ Vladimir, Greeting + Thanks with Flowers, \r\n\r\n1. There is no point
    building a site in English for Off-topic reasons?!\r\nNevertheless, we always
    try to take any opportunity to appear wherever welcome:\r\nhttp://ihtse.ir/ar/\r\nhttp://ihtse.ir/en/\r\nhttp://ihtse.ir/fa/\r\n\r\n2.
    My Flowers are frozen for Off-topic reasons?!\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/51401\r\nhttp://powerwordpuzzles.com/sunbursts/\r\nhttp://typophile.com/files/16-petals.pdf\r\n\r\n3.Tracking
    posts, you will see I never started any Off-Topic unless provoked?!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-23 14:10:29'
- author:
    name: khalid
    picture: 121506
  body: "Aziz,\r\n\r\nNice work indeed. It seems to compete headlong with Tasmeem,
    and one of the links you provided kind of shows the competition. But competition
    is usually healthy and variety is always good. Utilities like these could bring
    in the Arabic calligraphy touch to typography. There still seems to be some way
    ahead as you can see from the comparison of the Tasmeem word shaping example (right)
    and actual calligraphy (left) in the image below.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tasmeemvscalligraphy_6642.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    have written an article on how Linotype\u2019s Al-Harf Al-Jadeed replaced Ruq\u2019aa
    in Arabic newspaper headlines ([[http://arabictype.wordpress.com/2010/05/17/fonts-harf-jadid]]).
    \ Programs such as Tasmeem and Arabic Calligrapher could probably bring Ruq\u2019aa
    back in.\r\n\r\nThe calligraphic effect in typography might represent one end
    of the business. Arabic typography needs better solutions in a number of areas
    such as better fonts for body text, motion graphics, and more important for the
    web pages.\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-23 16:28:20'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "@ Tasmeem and Arabic Calligrapher could probably bring Ruq\u2019aa back in.\r\n@
    It seems to compete headlong with Tasmeem,\r\n-\r\nCompared to MAC (MaryamSoft
    Arabic Calligrapher), Tasmeem is useless. Why?\r\nTasmeem goes with InDesign ONLY.
    MAC is platform-independent, Elaborating:\r\n1. MAC runs on Windows + Apple systems
    and  goes with M$ + Adobe applications.\r\n2. Unlike Tasmeem fonts, Texts set
    in MAC fonts are exchangeable. See:\r\nhttp://www.maryamsoft.com/files/download/MaryamSoft%20Quranic%20Naskh.swf\r\n3.
    Ruq\u2019aa is under construction at MaryamSoft.com.\r\n-------------\r\nVladimir
    + Khalid, contact me to get your complimentary copies of MAC with Flowers.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-23 17:27:35'
- author:
    name: khalid
    picture: 121506
  body: Many thanks, Aziz. I was planning to do a review on the Arabic Calligrapher
    on my blog. Now I can actually use it and that would help in projecting a first-hand
    experience.
  created: '2011-01-24 07:22:02'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Welcome Khalid, Please do:\r\n1.  See my shared Jawi floder + Download jawisetup.exe
    \r\n2. Install it and type in your serial number: xxx-xxx-xxx-xxx-xxx\r\n3. See
    the auto generated code and send it to me to get the AC:\r\nhttp://www.maryamsoft.com/Default.aspx?Page=ActivationCode\r\nEnjoy
    with Flowers\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-24 08:18:35'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "@ Aziz Thank you- I will take up your kind offer soon inshallah. \r\n@ Khalid
    \"better fonts for body text, motion graphics, and more important for the web
    pages.\"     \u0627\u0645\u064A\u0646 Amen to that - particularly web pages I
    think this is a danger area for Arabic as young people hate the fonts and keyboard
    approaches available, and started to type online text using Latin letter and numeral
    substitutions \r\n\r\nMarh7aba la3allak bixeir..etc. I am not sure of the full
    gamut of this ingenious but very ugly stopgap measure.\r\n\r\nHowever with touch
    screens starting to fill the market, I have high hopes for Arabic input.  The
    iphone and ipod etc. touch have Arabic keyboards that are a marvel in ease of
    use and clarity tap the aleph you get an aleph, but keep the finger or pen on
    it a bit longer and you get a choice of variants as in the photo.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ipodtoucharabic_5720.jpg]"
  created: '2011-01-25 08:39:19'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Vladimir Tamari, you have been \r\n1. given an exclusive number for MAC,\r\n2.
    linked to my share folder.\r\n3. invited to follow the above 3 steps .\r\n-\r\nCongratulations
    with Flowers\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-26 11:20:31'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: Many thanks Aziz I shall devote myself to this and many other delayed tasks
    after the cataract surgery next month!
  created: '2011-01-27 10:59:41'
- author:
    name: khalid
    picture: 121506
  body: Salamat inshalla. Be well, Vladimir, and come back; there is so much to discuss.
  created: '2011-01-27 13:49:58'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Tamari, Praying for your Successful Surgery + Quick  recovery. Take care
    of yourself.\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-27 14:02:24'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: Thank you Khalid and Aziz I will consider the operations as fixing the outline
    of the middle 'ain!
  created: '2011-01-29 05:06:17'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "@ Quadibloc: \u2026 recent events in Egypt involving the Coptic Christian
    minority illustrate what is feared.\r\n-\r\nHow accurate you are!\r\n\r\nBoth
    Muslims and Christians held prayers at the square for the victims of the uprising.\r\nhttp://english.aljazeera.net/news/middleeast/2011/02/201126131743308918.html\r\n-\r\nSorry,
    too late!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-06 15:50:17'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I am glad that at the present time, both Muslims and Christians in Egypt
    are united in seeking greater democratization and progress in Egypt. I hope this
    continues to be the case, and Egypt becomes a country where everyone enjoys more
    happiness and freedom.\r\n\r\nI am concerned that the Muslim Brotherhood, a part
    of the opposition coalition, may end up being the group that takes over, because
    I am concerned that if they do, they will make things worse, rather than better,
    for the people of Egypt - among, of course, other things. I don't know if you
    share these concerns, or feel that only the U.S. and Israel have anything to fear
    from them."
  created: '2011-02-06 20:17:56'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: Well, as a general rule, if US <em>and</em> Israel fear something it must
    be damn good for the people of Egypt.
  created: '2011-02-06 22:21:55'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Second Khaled Hosny\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-07 12:40:08'
- author:
    name: khalid
    picture: 121506
  body: "Back to the first question. Although the design of Simplified Arabic has
    a number of good typographic qualities, the font is actually no more than a marketing
    exercise. Microsoft needed a robust Arabic font that would make their IE and Office
    Suite usable by the millions of users in the Arab world (not that they will all
    actually buy it as Microsoft knows better than me and you). That is why you do
    not find any designer credited in the font info.\r\n\r\nTelling from the correct
    interpretation of Arabic letters, the font was most likely designed by an Arab
    designer who submitted the original designs in paper format. The design was then
    probably digitized by Monotype as the outlines reflect the usual high quality
    found in the Latin fonts.\r\n\r\nThe paradigm above also applies to other widely
    used Arabic fonts such as Yakout, Al Harf Al Jadeed, and Muna by Abdulla Faris.
    Although Nahib Jaroudi is credited by Linotype, but the font was created to promote
    other products that use the fonts.\r\n\r\nGood and practical Arabic fonts that
    are driven by the aim of achieving typographic excellence are hard to find."
  created: '2011-06-05 14:31:59'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "In searching for information about Arabic typography, to get a better idea
    of what is required and what is lacking, one of the things I came across was Titus
    Nemeth's dissertation on the state of newspaper typography in the Arab world.\r\n\r\nHaving
    a type element for a Selectric typewriter for Arabic, I had thought it seemed
    like \"Simplified Arabic\" was a <em>good</em> idea, since <em>on a typewriter</em>,
    where successive characters can overlap, merging final and isolated, and initial
    and medial, by putting the connecting stroke between letters entirely on the first
    letter of the pair appeared to me to give results indistinguishable from the use
    of four versions of each letter in hot-metal typesetting.\r\n\r\nHowever, from
    this dissertation, I've learned that the \"Yakout\" typeface on Linotype took
    the \"Simplified Arabic\" idea to where it <strong>did not belong</strong> - to
    the world of hot metal typography, where letters cannot overlap. Even I could
    see that the result was a travesty of the Arabic script. Worse yet, according
    to that dissertation, the Arabic characters provided in common Microsoft typefaces
    with Unicode support like Arial (mentioned in the dissertation) and Times Roman
    (not mentioned, but looks identical on my computer) are patterned after Yakout.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    to be fair, <em>some</em> of the worst features of Yakout aren't in fact included
    in the Arabic characters in Arial; you won't see a little stub of a connector
    on the initial form of letters. But the distortion of the letter shapes so that
    on Linotype, where that stub connector couldn't be avoided, at least it would
    be small, still remains.\r\n\r\nOf course, just having the basic four versions
    of each letter or the equivalent is still not the same as respecting a larger
    proportion of the calligraphic rules, but it is a reasonable minimum to ask."
  created: '2012-04-05 18:25:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I think it is misleading to say that Linotype 'took the Simplified Arabic
    idea to ... hot metal typography'. Simplified Arabic was invented by Linotype
    precisely as a mechanism to fit Arabic onto existing newspaper composing machinery.
    The Yakout newspaper type is the paradigm of Simplified Arabic which, by the way,
    does not consist simply of two forms per letter instead of four, but of a varying
    number of forms (e.g. the heh takes four forms).
  created: '2012-04-06 18:45:00'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "It may indeed be that the term \"Simplified Arabic\", as used in this discussion,
    refers specifically to what Yakout implemented.\r\n\r\nHowever, Yakout does date
    from 1956, while Wikipedia claims the first Arabic typewriter was made by Philip
    Wakid and Saleem Haddad in 1914.\r\n\r\n(EDIT: Remington was selling Urdu typewriters,
    and possibly Arabic typewriters, in India back in 1910, I've since found out.)\r\n\r\nI
    know that there was an Arabic element for the Blickensderfer, as well.\r\n\r\nAnd
    so, my point, that reducing most letters to only two forms actually works reasonably
    well on a typewriter, not requiring the letter forms to be as distorted as they
    were in Yakout, I believe remains valid."
  created: '2012-04-07 22:30:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Let me know if you find pictures of the layouts for these early typewriters.
    It would be interesting to see how they worked. The later typewriters I have looked
    at take a very similar approach to the Simplified Arabic scheme, and I'd be interested
    to see whether this is consistent with the earlier models or not.
  created: '2012-04-08 00:34:49'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I will. My reference was an ad with only the names of the languages supported,
    but I'll see what I can find.\r\n\r\nA possibility, too, is that a Turkish typewriter
    may have been first to embody the Arabic script, since the Ottoman Empire would
    have been more developed and closer to the West - so I'm going to include that
    possibility in my search."
  created: '2012-04-09 17:09:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually Lebanon has historically been the most Western Arabic-using nation.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/48413419@N00/11350632/in/set-279430\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-09 17:41:39'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "This typewriter ad,\r\n\r\n[[http://blog.modernmechanix.com/2009/03/11/no-other-typewriter-can-do-this%E2%80%94/]]\r\n\r\nfrom
    1918, is, I'm afraid, a latecomer..."
  created: '2012-04-10 22:31:13'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: Saad, that Steve of Glyph Systems (Andover MA), was Steven T. Reef, who had
    a colleague called Susan Cabot. In the late a980's GS developed an Arabic version
    of Rank Xerox Ventura Publisher together with Layout, now in Beirut, but during
    that time on Cyprus because of the war. Layout later Arabised Quark Express with
    the famous Arabic XT . RX Ventura publisher is among the best book making tool
    ever made. GS had a partner in Colorado Springs, CO named Paul Nelson. He later
    moved the Microsoft - he is the link with Simplified Arabic and Windows. To my
    knowledge, Glyph Systems did not design fonts.
  created: '2013-01-16 21:39:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "FWIW, I once had a very bad experience with Glyph Systems.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-16 22:09:13'
- author:
    name: Mamoun
    picture: 118002
  body: "In response to Hasan's original inquiry regarding information on the designer
    of Simplified Arabic fonts included with Windows, I have the following information:\r\n\r\nDuring
    Typecon conference in Seattle in 2007\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/ebensorkin/1204185570/\r\n\r\nI
    asked David Berlow, founder of Font Bureau, if he did any design work on Arabic
    fonts and he told me that he did Simplified Arabic some years ago. He downplayed
    his contribution because he thought that he did not have much knowledge about
    Arabic, however, I think his work has much merit for its time. \r\n\r\nWhen I
    read Hasan's inquiry, I remembered this conversation and wrote to David to request
    more specific information about this typeface. His response was brief: The font
    was designed around 1986 while he was working for Bitstream, and Matthew Carter
    supervised his supervisor. I don't have information about his inspiration or sources
    for this design, or about the route of licensing from Bitstream to Agfa Monotype
    to Microsoft.\r\n\r\nSimplified Arabic typeface included with Windows and used
    as the Arabic complement in Arial and Times New Roman is a specific typeface design
    which is not the same as the general term \"simplified Arabic\" used to describe
    the genre of fonts discussed earlier in this post. Simplified Arabic fonts produced
    by Linotype and other vendors before 1986 must be considered the models on which
    this typeface is based.\r\n\r\nDuring the past couple of years, I have been doing
    work for Microsoft to differentiate the Arabic of Simplified Arabic, Arial and
    Times New Roman. This work aims to make the Arabic in each of these fonts recognizable
    from the other fonts, and to make the Arabic more related to its Latin companion
    especially in Arial which is a monoline design. I do not have information about
    when these revisions will be released by Microsoft.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-06 21:20:26'
date: '2008-06-06 12:07:28'
title: Simplified Arabic

---
