---
author:
  name: Vladimir Tamari
  picture: 113527
body: There is a wealth of experience and documentation about testing, adjusting the
  spacing, kerning and hinting of Latin type. [[Arabic]] has a radically different
  sript structure - many letters are connected, dots and marks are significant design
  elements, and there is a lot more variation in the shapes of glyphs within one font.
  Software like FontLab are geared to Latin fonts for example there is no way to test
  Arabic using such rules of thumb as the XOX or HOH strategies. You are invited here
  to share your experience in dealing with these particular aspects of Arabic fonts,
  with thanks.
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "For a typical horizontal Arabic type, I think a similarity of approach between
    Latin and Arabic can be found in beginning with the spacing of upright letters,
    i.e. alif and lam. Start with a run of isolated alif glyphs and space them so
    that the overall colour produced by the rhythmic repetition of black and white
    is neither too heavy nor too light. In Latin type, one generally starts with letters
    with strong uprights but also internal white space, such as H and n, but the internal
    white space of Arabic letters tends to be more variable, so at this initial stage
    I would work with simple upright forms.\r\n\r\n\u0627\u0627\u0627\u0627\u0627\u0627\r\n\r\nOnce
    the isolated alif has been spaced, this gives you a guide for the left side of
    the final alif and the right side of the isolated and initial lam. The next step
    is to space the medial and final form of lam and make the connections of the appropriate
    length, again using the isolated alifs as a visual guide.\r\n\r\n\u0627\u0627\u0627\u0644\u0644\u0644
    \r\n\r\nThe right side spacing of the medial and final lam provide a guide for
    the right side of the final alif. You now have a set of guide glyphs between which
    you can test the spacing of left-right connecting letters, e.g.\r\n\r\n\u0627\u0627\u0627\u0644\u0647\u0627\u0627\u0627\u0627\r\n\r\nAs
    with Latin spacing, the more glyph combinations you space, the more pairs you
    have against which you can check new combinations or refine previous spacing."
  created: '2008-06-07 21:55:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "PS. The spacing of a lot of Arabic typefaces is really bad, so trying to
    find good models can be difficult. We spend a lot of time on spacing (and also
    kerning of non connecting letters), and I think the Adobe Arabic fonts are worth
    looking at in this regard.\r\n\r\nA major issue re. kerning is interaction between
    tightly spaced letters and vocalisation marks, which need to be contextually resolved
    to avoid unwanted collisions. Traditionally, this is done by shifting the marks,
    rather than by adjusting the spacing of the letters. I think that in a typographical
    environment, both techniques are valid, and can be used side-by-side and even
    in combination. However it is done, this is major work and one of the least attractive
    aspects of the OpenType approach to Arabic."
  created: '2008-06-07 22:01:06'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Thank you John. This is very helpful. Common and sensible advice for spacing
    Latin is to try to equalize the spaces within the outlines with those between
    the letters. In other words the line of text should have an even texture and 'color'.
    This is not always possible in Arabic- for example a downward-curving ra will
    always leave a void above it, while a tightly knotted initial heh will always
    look dark however one spaces it. \r\n\u0647\u0631\u0627\u0646\u062A\r\nOf course
    this effect will vary from font to font, and can be lessened with kerning. But
    generally-speaking why not simply accept this basic variability in the visual
    density of a line of Arabic text? Aesthetic and reading comfort considerations
    aside, this may well prove to be an in-built aid to legibility."
  created: '2008-06-08 02:37:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: As I wrote, 'the internal white space of Arabic letters tends to be more variable',
    so you can't use the internal white space as a guide to inter-letter spacing as
    one can, to a certain extent, with Latin. This is why I start with the simple
    upright letters, because they enable one to establish a basic rhythm within which
    the more complex shapes can be optically spaced. In Latin script there are also
    letters, such as a and s, that can only be spaced by eye within the general rhythm
    established by other letters; in Arabic, there are simply more such letters.
  created: '2008-06-08 18:10:14'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: ">>>\u2019the internal white space of Arabic letters tends to be more variable\u2019>>>\r\n\r\n...and
    even more so between one calligraphic style and another, and their equivelant
    manifestations in various fonts.  For example in riq'a scrip the loops of letters
    like waw, ain, feh and so on are all closed, and a line of such script (or font)
    will have a rather spindly thorny appearance.  On the other hand more geometrical
    Arabic fonts with strong uprights and horizontal 'spine' will appear more like
    a compact frieze pattern.  I think this is all fine, and other distinguishing
    patterns and textures will appear in the scripts and fonts of other languages
    . That is why I am wary of the recent 'matchmaking' trend  where Arabic fonts
    are forced to lose their character by following the x-height and other features
    of Latin fonts.\r\n\r\nHaving said that I feel there must be common guidelines
    applicable to all fonts in any language- for example a rule of thumb comparing
    letter width and the space between letter-outlines? The minimum or maximum size
    of dots and other martks? Human vision is an amazingly sophisticated system, and
    reading a font is an act of seeing to which the basics of perception must apply
    whatever is being seen and read."
  created: '2008-06-09 12:17:52'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Since All but 2 (Alif+Dal) out of the 17 Arabic sweet dancers are fonty,
    \r\nthen just soft space these 2 unless followed by hard space.\r\n\r\nOr just
    duplicate the 2 making Tight+left-spaced ones \r\nand screw the tight one at a
    hard (space)!\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-10 12:17:46'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: 'Dear Aziz- all I can answer is ...huh? :) [img:sites/default/files/old-images/aziz_6657.gif] '
  created: '2008-06-10 12:33:48'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Misunderstood? Need Calrification?!\r\nOk, never use spaces in arabic fonts.\r\nNeither
    right nor left spaces are necessary.\r\nHappy designing with Flowers"
  created: '2008-06-10 15:19:56'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: 'Thank you Aziz for the flowers and clarification. I will try to dream of
    the 17 dancing letters tonight (which ones are they?) maybe in the morning everything
    will become clearer. Many many years ago a friend looked at my ordinary Arabic
    handwriting in astonishment and said it looked a like dancing script. '
  created: '2008-06-10 16:40:02'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Vladimir\r\n\r\nIn my projects, I divide Arabic letters and glyphs into two
    groups based on their connectivity:  restricted and un-restricted.\r\n\r\nRestricted
    letters can only connect from one side (Alif, Waw, Ra, Dal, ..) or never connect
    (Hamza). These glyphs need spaces on the left.\r\n\r\nUn-Restricted letters can
    connect from both sides (the rest of the letters). No spaces are need for this
    group on either side.  \r\n\r\nI use minimum kerning depending on project and
    style.\r\n\r\n-Saad\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-11 02:44:29'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: 'Thanks Saad. I guess by spacing I meant the fine-tuning of these Restricted
    letter spaces.   For example if the alef width is considered as one unit, how
    many units of space would you give it? What if it were bold- do you make the aleph
    thicker but keep the space the same, or increase the space proportionally? '
  created: '2008-06-11 08:28:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Note that when talking about 'spacing' in the context of Arabic, as should
    be plain from my comment earlier about spacing medial forms between initial lam
    and final alif, we need to consider both letters with actual space between them,
    e.g. waw followed by another letter, and also the relationship of connecting letters,
    i.e. the length of the connecting strokes. In the various classical styles of
    Arabic writing, these strokes are analysable as part of the fusion, i.e. as part
    of the letter in its appropriate form in a specific context. The advent of flat
    'neo-naskh' and other typographic styles with a horizontal baseline stroke introduces
    a more Latin-like spacing model, in which the connecting stroke is analysable
    independently of the letter as a kind of spacing. This is demonstrated in the
    illustration below, in which we can say that the connecting stroke to the left
    of the mim is too short,  and on the right it may be too long, i.e. that it is
    spaced too far to the left between the two upright letters. This could be a fault
    in the mim glyph, in the final alif glyph, in the initial lam, or any combination
    of the three. [Note that I messed with the spacing to produce this illustration;
    the actual font is not spaced like this.]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MimSpacing_4662.gif]"
  created: '2008-06-11 18:46:11'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Just a minor correction:\r\n\"Unless\" in my earlier comment shoud be replaced
    by (if not), so the phrase:\r\n> then just soft space these 2 unless followed
    by hard space.\r\nshould now read: \r\nthen just soft space these 2 if not followed
    by hard space. \r\nOr:\r\nthen just soft space these 2 if not hard-spaced.\r\nApologizing
    with Flowers\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-11 18:50:39'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> [Note that I messed with the spacing to produce this illustration; the
    actual font is not spaced like this.]\r\n\r\nWell John, the difference between
    your approach and mine is demonstrated here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/36706\r\nThe
    tighter, the nicer?!"
  created: '2008-06-11 18:58:21'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Arabic spacing study_6031.jpg]\r\n\r\nAs
    John has demonstrated the the spaces between connected letters is as important
    as the space between unconnected ones. The figure above (using Segoe UI and some
    fun with Gimp) can be used to point out various aspects of spacing. \r\n\r\nThe
    colored areas are what I have been calling 'word shape' (perhaps another term
    is used in typography courses?). This shape is defined both by the letter outlines
    and the spaces between them.  Arabic word shapes are irregular as compared to
    those of Latin, and arguably this helps legibility in Arabic because each word
    looks different than the other (an advantage erased by 'matchmaking').\r\n\r\nReferring
    to the numbers in the figure I propose to use the term 'space' for  1,2,4,5 defined
    by the distance between the edge of the letter and the left or right sidebearings.
    Perhaps 'baseline distance' would be a good term for the distances defined by
    the length of the baseline in connected letters, such as in 3 (lam and meem).
    A 'gap' would be the visual space such as 3 or 8 that is defined by the word-shape
    and it depends on the design of the letters, the baseline distances and spaces
    involved.\r\n\r\n-In this font the spaces 1 , 2 and 7 are all different I wonder
    if this is intentional?\r\n-The gap 3 will be large even if the baseline distances
    are tightened to the extreme.\r\n-The space 5 is unavoidable in most Arabic fonts
    (if kerning is not used) - is that similar to what Aziz was saying about the dal?\r\n-4
    and 6 are the only spaces between words here. In the Latin the spaces between
    the words appear more prominent.\r\n-Final letters like the yeh, seen sad etc.
    leave a large gap such as 8.\r\n\r\nIn a good font  the careful design of glyphs
    so that the gaps, spaces and baseline distances all combine to produce a pleasing
    balance.  What would your idea of a 'pleasing balance' be? Examples of 'good'
    and 'bad' fonts in this respect would be useful for discussion."
  created: '2008-06-12 03:30:12'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Hope this better explains my approach.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FatimaL_6066.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FatimaM_5152.jpg]\r\nAll
    the Best with Flowers\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-12 20:44:51'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: That is beautiful calligraphy. But of course to reproduce this in type one
    will need either a yet-undesigned font in Tom Milo's [[http://www.decotype.com/|Tasmeem]]
    or one mighty ligature. Note how the middle gap enhances the design. Aziz you
    appear to have mastered Arabic font design and the maxim "the tighter the nicer"
    should be inscribed in golden letters. But just how tight? Examples of tight and
    loose fonts would be appreciated. With thanks, and flowers of course.
  created: '2008-06-13 02:34:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Aziz: <em>Hope this better explains my approach.</em>\r\n\r\nThat would be
    my approach too, if I were designing that style of writing.\r\n\r\nAs I wrote
    previously: 'The advent of flat \u2019neo-naskh\u2019 and other typographic styles
    with a horizontal baseline stroke introduces a more Latin-like spacing model,
    in which the connecting stroke is analysable independently of the letter as a
    kind of spacing.'\r\n\r\nSpacing is part of a trinity of factors, along with style
    and size, and isn't something to which I would describe myself as having 'an approach'.
    The appropriate approach -- or options for possible approaches -- depends on the
    individual typeface."
  created: '2008-06-13 03:20:04'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "John, in M$ Word 2003\r\nType>Format>Font>Character Spacing>Condensed up
    to\r\nthe logarithm of your \"Font Size\" and see yourself!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Kondaleza_3710.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Condaliza_6708.jpg]\r\nVladimir,
    How Tight? \r\nThanks to the round limbs of AAOTF, you can screw further?!\r\n\r\nHappy
    Experimenting with Flowers"
  created: '2008-06-13 13:32:25'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: ">>>The appropriate approach ... depends on the individual typeface>>>\r\n>>>...see
    yourself!>>>\r\n\r\nTrue it all depends on the design, and perhaps the only way
    to space it correctly is to use an intuitive 'see for yourself' approach. \r\n\r\nThe
    spacing S of an Arabic script or font whatever its style might be quantified as
    follows:\r\nS= M/W  \r\nwhere W is the typical width of a vertical letter like
    the alef, and M is the minimum horizontal distance between outlines in the font.
    For example in square kufi where the letter-width is exactly equal to the space
    between letters, S=1. In the texts above the space between alef and initial yeh
    (or the dot of the zain and the alef, or the dal and the alef) seem to have a
    typically minimum space between them. \r\n\r\nThen, roughly-speaking, S=2 for
    the comfortably-spaced top line, S=1 for the middle and S=0.3 for the tightly
    squeezed bottom example.  I guess one can also use other measures for example
    A/W where A is the average space. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-14 05:17:15'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "@ Vladimir, Still talking about spaces?!\r\nO Dotcoms!\r\nO Dotorgs!\r\nO
    WhoDotelse!\r\nRemove all the spaces in your Arabic Fonts \r\nsave the ones to
    the left of Alif+Dal and their alike \r\nand see how they look.\r\n\r\n@ John,
    for more improvement to AAOTF, contact me to contact you.\r\nAll the Best with
    Flowers\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-14 05:32:07'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: ">>>@ Vladimir, Still talking about spaces?!>>>\r\nNot with those who do not
    wish to discuss it O Aziz!"
  created: '2008-06-14 08:36:49'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "\r\nVladimir, We are all interested!\r\n\r\nSpaces, spaces, spaces!! We all
    like to talk spaces until we are \"spaced out\" !\r\n\r\n>>The tighter, the nicer?!\r\n\r\nI
    think the worst disease that have struck good old poor Arabic script was the many
    \ \"self-appointing\" prophets and guardians, complete with commandments and holly
    sermons! Reformers want to \"fix it\", calli-typographers want to freeze it in
    time.\r\n\r\nHere is my commandment: the spacier the airier; and here is my second
    commandment: space it at 16 point, see it at 6 points!  -:)  \r\n\r\nseriously,
    lets give theses Arabic letters a break. Calligrapher squeezed them, melted them,
    ligatured them, deprived them personality and independence, made art of them,
    claimed they were sacred .. This was (and still) fine and may be necessary IN
    CALLIGRAPHY . Still one thing the founding fathers of calligraphy did not do:
    they did not etch rules on stones, otherwise we would not have all these revoultionry
    different styles.\r\n\r\n-Saad\r\n\r\n   "
  created: '2008-06-15 15:09:49'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Self-appointing prophets say: \r\nMake Right + Left + Word Spaces to make
    the sweet too loose to suck?!\r\nReformers say: \r\n1. Be rational not emotional.\r\n2.
    Do not you see that you add up 3 spaces between words?!\r\nSo, why not integrate
    the 3 spaces into a single revolutionary space?!\r\nFlowers to All\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-16 06:19:26'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Thanks Saad! Your refreshing reminder that calligraphy and font design are
    (or should be) open to change, improvement and innovation is welcome. Over the
    centuries Arabic calligraphy has done very well for itself and the results are
    the fantastic 'polished' styles of classical calligraphy, with all their in-built
    rules and traditions. Enter printing, and now the calligraphers feel threatened
    but the font-designers gradually realize that here was a new opportunity to innovate.
    Because of technical issues like font metrics, the visibility of displayed and
    printed words font designers have to explore new issues, for example spacing,
    and find solutions to them.  \r\n\r\nBy the way the tight spacing Aziz advocates
    is not a necessarily bad thing. In Chinese and Japanese characters the density
    of strokes is very high in a given space, but it seems that the eye can read such
    character-words at one glance. The Arabic equivelant to these characters would
    be, for example, the basmala ligature.  Perhaps with such software as Tom Milo's
    Tasmeem where such overlapping of glyphs is possible and easy to control, old
    and new styles of 'tight' Arabic can be displayed. "
  created: '2008-06-16 06:39:12'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "By the way, just have a look at what the Self-appointing prophets have done:\r\nhttp://www.winsoft.eu/www/eng/products_solutions/WinSoft-Tasmeem-arabicspacing.php\r\nLetter
    Spacing : Too loose.\r\nKerning: No\r\nMark Positioning: Not too bad\r\nLigatures:
    Up to the AC-practicing eye+hand of the user?! \r\nCorrect me if I am wrong.\r\n\r\nEvaluation
    to what I have done is highly appreciated with Flowers\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/19348\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-16 07:20:35'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Since there are already several typophile threads dealing with Arabic perhaps
    we should ask Miss Tiffany to kindly have them moved with forwarding to this Special
    Interest Group.\r\n\r\nIn the thread referred to by Aziz there is an image [[http://typophile.com/files/MRALLAH1.jpg|MRALLAH1]]
    of his font. I am not an expert of Koranic script, but I liked the elegance and
    smooth connectivity of the font. In some places it is too tight for example in
    the word \u0643\u0641\u0627\u0631 the kaf touches the feh. However in the word
    \u0643\u0632\u0631\u0639 the ra and zain and kasratan fit beautifully within the
    curves of the ain.  In fact the marks everywhere fit very nicely within the outlines.
    Can you tell us more about this font family - its name, number of ligatures, kerning,
    hinting and other features. How long did it take you to develop? Congratulations
    with flowers."
  created: '2008-06-17 08:22:24'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Thanks Vladimir,  To make the fonty flash one-mega watt smile, I did\r\nI.
    make more than 1100 ligatures\r\n2. place more than 99  H+V marks for the 1+0
    (wide+narrow) parts.\r\n3. write AC-juggling word-macros.\r\n4. screw the tight
    parts at hard spaces.\r\nPlease allow 2-3 weeks for further details + new samples.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-17 12:20:39'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: ">By the way, just have a look at what the Self-appointing prophets have done:\r\n>http://www.winsoft.eu/www/eng/products_solutions/WinSoft-Tasmeem-arabics...\r\n\r\nWots
    a self-appointing prophet? And, why the sneer? Are you against innovation? Or
    are the French unwelcome in Arabic typography? Wots the point? \r\n\r\n>Letter
    Spacing : Too loose.\r\n\r\nThis is a parameter, it can be set loose or tight
    by the user. The designer provides the default\r\n\r\n>Kerning: No\r\n\r\nThis
    is also a parameter, but there are no kerning pairs, because the font is dynamic.\r\n\r\n>Mark
    Positioning: Not too bad\r\n\r\n1. Designer sets defaults, 2. ACE looks for best
    implementation, 3. user can adjust the position.\r\n \r\n>Ligatures: Up to the
    AC-practicing eye+hand of the user?!\r\n\r\nThere are no ligatures at all. The
    font is less than 400 glyphs. What you see are letter block fusions according
    to naskh script grammar. Wherever this grammar provides more than one solution,
    the user can choose.\r\n\r\n>Correct me if I am wrong.\"\r\n\r\nYou were wrong
    :-)\r\n\r\nTulip bulbs,\r\n\r\nThomas Milo\r\nDecoType\r\nwww.decotype.com"
  created: '2008-06-17 13:09:28'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Happy to see Thomas back among typophiles. Welcome with Flowers:\r\n\r\n>
    Wots a self-appointing prophet? \r\nOn July 16, 2007 at 10:01 am, and in reply
    to my never-answered-to-the point questions, here:\r\nhttp://29letters.wordpress.com/2007/01/15/arabic-calligraphy-written-by-hand-or-type-set-on-the-computer/\r\nThomas
    Milo wrote:\r\n...IT\u2019S SMART FONT TECHNOLOGY ON TOP OF OPEN TYPE IN THE POST
    SCRIPT FLAVOUR - THE BEST OF ALL WORLDS.\r\n\r\nEmphasizing your words \"THE BEST
    OF ALL WORLDS.\",\r\nIf this is not self-appointing prophecy, what is it? \r\nOwing
    Saad for his touching words+wording...\r\n\r\n> And, why the sneer?\r\n\"Sneer
    of what?\" Here is a scientific forum, not anything else?! \r\nNothing in my heart
    against you, and you do agree with me that\r\nWhat a man does is more important
    than who/what is he/she, \r\nregardless of his/her race, religion and color?!\r\n\r\n>
    Are you against innovation?\r\nClicking my avatar says it all?!\r\n\r\n> Or are
    the French unwelcome in Arabic typography?\r\nWhen it comes to typography+Calligraphy,
    I do acknowledge that the French are among the most fonty...\r\n\r\n> Wots the
    point?\r\nThe point is made clear by your comments on the 4-mentioned parameters
    that are inter-phrased with \" the user can choose.\"\r\n\r\n>Letter Spacing :
    .... it can be set loose or tight by the user..  \r\nA gallant failure even if
    thing goes word by word?! \r\n\r\n>Kerning: ... there are no kerning pairs, because
    the font is dynamic?!\r\nA bit like a man saying to his goldfish: \" I do not
    make love with you, because you are fonty\"\r\n\r\n>Mark Positioning: ... ACE
    looks for best implementation, ... user can adjust the position.\r\nIf ACE looks
    for best implementation, then what is the user supposed to adjust?!\r\nOne or
    more mispositioned mark like the zamma here?\r\nhttp://www.winsoft.eu/products_solutions/WinSoft-Tasmeem-NashkFont.php,\r\nThen
    what if the letter-spacings is changed or an alternative font is used after the
    repositioing?!\r\n\r\n\r\n>Ligatures: ... What you see are letter block fusions
    according to naskh script grammar. Wherever this grammar provides more than one
    solution, the user can choose.\r\nOf course not regardless of the 3 more parameters?\r\n\r\nYour
    answer does emphasize that is\" Up to the AC-practicing eye+hand of the user?\"\r\nNevertheless
    you say: \" You are wrong.\"\r\n\r\nThen tell me what a fonty user do you target
    that:\r\n1.  must have Arab-eyes, and\r\n2. can change 4 or more correlated/dependent
    \ parameters, \r\nthat if a change is made to one, then he/she has to adjust back
    and again the others?!\r\n\r\nPity the hopeless user?! Correct me if I am wrong
    with Flowers\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-17 15:04:46'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "Oh.\r\n\r\nThomas Milo\r\nDecoType\r\nwww.decotype.com"
  created: '2008-06-17 19:31:20'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Aziz wrote:\r\n\r\nEvaluation to what I have done is highly appreciated with
    Flowers\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/19348\r\n\r\nAziz, I am sure any fair person
    would give you high mark on your font (lets call it wurud - flowers-:) but I have
    only one problem with it: it is not yet a font that I can buy, and select from
    the font menu!  In other word: I agree with the question put by Vladimir, where
    is the beef?  Tell us more.\r\n\r\nAs for Tasmeem:\r\n\r\nIn defense of Milo's
    fascinating work, he has produced a *working* Arabic engine that can work as a
    desktop publishing software to print involved texts like historical works, complete
    with few involved and high end fonts.  Tasmeem is not a common commercial application
    like MS-Word targeting the general audience ... at least not yet. One can agree
    with some of your points and disagree with others, but you have to keep in mind
    what Tasmeem is really targeting. Personally, I like to see Open Type flourishing
    for Arabic. I do not like to think of Decotype format as a replacement for it.
    \r\n\r\n-Saad\r\n\r\n  \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-17 21:45:59'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "I agree with Saad that there is room for both Tom's Tasmeem and Aziz' Open
    Type naskh. Once the user has access to both, either can be used according to
    availability, the level of control needed and platform used. As in Latin fonts
    there is always room for excellence, and healthy competition can benefit typography
    as a whole.\r\n\r\nAs I understand it Aziz has made an incredible labor of love
    to create a unique font family  (Wurud??) TTF (or OT?)  with artistry and precision.
    Let us call it a full-course naskh meal by a master chef. We look forward to the
    feast.\r\n\r\nTom's Tasmeem work is an incredible labor of love consisting of
    the scholarly analysis of the roots of what he calls the grammar (the visual language)
    of Arabic writing systems and naskh in particular. This has been ingeniously implemented
    by the decotype team in software where such writing can be re-created naturally
    on the computer. In Tasmeem's naskh the user can control spacing and choose the
    details of various letters and markings. This flexibility applies to any other
    font adapted for the system, where it can be fine-tuned according to need or level
    of design experience. One might say Tom makes available a gleaming  futuristic
    kitchen; and (as soon as any techno-phobia has had a chance to wear off) guides
    us to effortlessly create a superb meal to taste.\r\n\r\nAziz gives flowers. Tom
    gives magic tulip bulbs to instantly grow your own."
  created: '2008-06-18 03:27:50'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "Vladimir, \r\n\r\nThanks for clarifying this is such nice culinary metaphors.
    I love cooking, you could guess as you caught me the other day baking a loaf of
    bread and one day I hope to present you my version of felafel! \r\n\r\nBut after
    some soul searching, I had to come to the conclusion that I am more of model builder
    where Arabic is concerned. Models you normally make from fascinating objects like
    intriguing cars or famous  airplanes. Grammars are models of languages - mental
    exercises driven by fascination and curiosity, attempting structurally to understand
    and reproduce what can be observed. The object of analysis itself, language, is
    is taught by examples and learned by imitating. I felt that Arabic script should
    be approached from the same point of view: not as a capricious art-form irreverently
    called AC, but as a  communication system where senders and receivers over a period
    of many centuries successfully shared the code. In this approach historical Arabic
    script is understood as a tool for text manufacture with not so much learnability,
    but legibility as its primary characteristic. \r\n\r\nAzizi Aziz, \r\n\r\nLemme
    try to clarify what that implies.\r\n\r\nNaskh is a historical script style. We
    made a computer model of it. That's all.\r\n\r\nDecoType ACE is technology to
    make this possible (which incidentally was the proof of concept for OpenType).
    It is not naskh, but a programming environment we (for I am not doing this alone)
    developed over the years for projects like a naskh model - the ultimate challenge.\r\n\r\nTasmeem
    is Adobe In Design with ACE built into it by WinSoft, who, together with DecoType,
    designed a User Interface around ACE. With ACE, Tasmeem can handle any Arabic
    script style.\r\n\r\nACE was first conceived as early as 1982-83 to enable the
    creation of a ruq`a replica. As said, the result was not so much a font, but a
    computer model of ruq' a. It was licensed by Microsoft around 1993. It was Microsoft
    who asked us to do a naskh with the same method in 1995. But not after they had
    first asked us in 1991-92 to provide a realistic naskh solution within their very
    simple design template - but I suppose that's more a topic for the other thread.\r\n\r\nInDesign
    is a typesetter's tool with enormous precision and many specialized controls -
    for Latin-based scripts. Some people just want it like that. With Tasmeem, we
    try to introduce this kind of precision into the field of Arabic script.\r\n\r\nAgainst
    this background, Tasmeem provides the user with tools to adjust the positioning
    of points and vowels. And, it provides specialized kerning and tracking controls
    based on the structure of Arabic - which is I believe the subject of this thread.\r\n\r\nTom's
    Tasmeem (nice alliteration, but it is really WinSoft's) and Aziz\u2019 Open Type
    naskh are sooner complementary than mutually exclusive.\r\n\r\nEach is in it's
    own league.\r\n\r\nBulbs,\r\n\r\nt\r\n \r\n \r\n\r\n\r\nThomas Milo\r\nDecoType\r\nwww.decotype.com"
  created: '2008-06-18 10:17:39'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Tom wrote:\r\n\r\n>>In this approach historical Arabic script is understood
    as a tool for text manufacture with not so much learnability, but legibility as
    its primary characteristic.\r\n\r\nThe historical calligraphic script was not
    primarily about Legibility or learnability.  It was about speed and harmony. Read
    what one of the fathers of Caligraphy, Barmaki, said 1000 years ago:\r\n \r\n\u0627\u0644\u062E\u0637
    \u0635\u0648\u0631\u0629 \u0631\u0648\u062D\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0628\u064A\u0627\u0646\u060C
    \u0648\u064A\u062F\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0631\u0639\u0629\u060C \u0648\u0642\u062F\u0645\u0647\u0627
    \u0627\u0644\u062A\u0633\u0648\u064A\u0629\u060C \u0648\u062C\u0648\u0627\u0631\u062D\u0647\u0627
    \u0645\u0639\u0631\u0641\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0641\u0635\u0648\u0644\r\n\r\nTranslation:
    Calligraphy is a living picture, whose soul is representation, hand is speed,
    foot is harmony, and strength is the knowledge of derived styles.\r\n\r\n\r\n>>With
    ACE, Tasmeem can handle any Arabic script style.\r\n\r\nMy font Mehdi, which uses
    both Tatweel (kashida) (not today's common dash-like imitation) and Irsaal (final
    form tatweel) was implemented across 5 fonts with more that 2500 glyphs and plenty
    of glyph substitutions. In Tasmeem, less than 500 glyphs were needed.  Plus, users
    do not need to keep changing fonts and they have additional power and flexibilty.
    This was accomplished with a simple template on Fontlab with no letter chopping.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    Tasmeem can keep your flowers fresh: Users can not steal fonts since they can
    not work outside the environment.\r\n\r\n-Saad\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-18 15:47:50'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "@ Tasmeem is Adobe In Design with ACE built into it by WinSoft, who, together
    with DecoType, designed a User Interface around ACE. With ACE, Tasmeem can handle
    any Arabic script style.\r\n\r\n... I can understand that some companies lack
    the expertise in certain fields, so they initially rely on external providers....\r\n\r\nTwardoch's
    comment on 5.Dec.2007 at the end of this topic:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/36706"
  created: '2008-06-18 21:02:53'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: ">>>The historical calligraphic script was not primarily about Legibility
    or learnability. It was about speed and harmony.>>>\r\n\r\nSaad-  surely legibility
    was an unwritten law? A beautiful harmonious but unreadable style would have been
    discarded as a script evolved.\r\n\r\n>>>ACE was first conceived as early as 1982-83
    to enable the creation of a ruq\u2018a replica>>>\r\n\r\nTom- nice alliteration
    here too ruq\u2018a replica! Was there just one stroke-like curve for each glyph
    (not a complete outline)and the program creates an outline from this curve according
    to a 'nib' (qalam tip)  length and angle? Some reference graphics would be nice
    to see. Is r-r included in Tasmeem?  I guess it is time to start a Tasmeem thread
    here.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-19 02:17:15'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> I guess it is time to start a Tasmeem thread here.\r\nVladimir! Already
    started?!\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/40979\r\n\r\nAs you asker earlier:\r\n>...
    we should ask Miss Tiffany to kindly have them moved with forwarding to this Special
    Interest Group.\r\nAlso looking forward to seeing it moved along with all the
    related topics that appear on my page.\r\nHope the Miss wont miss this node with
    my endless Flower greetings to her.\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-19 07:10:15'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: ">>@ Tasmeem is Adobe In Design with ACE built into it by WinSoft, who, together
    with\r\n>> DecoType, designed a User Interface around ACE. With ACE, Tasmeem can
    handle any\r\n>>Arabic script style.\r\n\r\n> ... I can understand that some companies
    lack the expertise in certain fields, so they\r\n> initially rely on external
    providers....\r\n\r\nWe do not need to rely on external providers. WinSoft and
    DecoType have all the expertise in house.\r\n\r\n\r\nThomas Milo\r\nDecoType\r\nwww.decotype.com"
  created: '2008-06-19 09:53:23'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "> My font Mehdi, which uses both Tatweel (kashida) (not today\u2019s common
    dash-like\r\n> imitation) and Irsaal (final form tatweel) was implemented across
    5 fonts with more\r\n> that 2500 glyphs and plenty of glyph substitutions. In
    Tasmeem, less than 500 glyphs\r\n> were needed. Plus, users do not need to keep
    changing fonts and they have additional\r\n> power and flexibilty. This was accomplished
    with a simple template on Fontlab with no\r\n> letter chopping.\r\n\r\nSaad,\r\n\r\nIt's
    less. The total glyph complement of Mehdi is now 235 including punctuation and
    static Arabic characters. The ACE-driven set, that replaces the original 5000
    with partial Unicode support is only 161 for full support (excluding Koranic tajweed).
    \r\n\r\nThomas Milo\r\nDecoType\r\nwww.decotype.com"
  created: '2008-06-19 09:57:38'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "> Is there any Arab among you?\r\n\r\nHa. I must have entered the wrong forum.
    I thought this is about Arabic Type. But now I understand it is about Arab Type
    - not my type of type. Sorry to have  intruded.\r\n\r\nBTW, why aren't the Italians
    more prominent in Roman type discussions :-)\r\n\r\nThomas Milo\r\nDecoType\r\nwww.decotype.com"
  created: '2008-06-19 10:38:00'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "Man yacrafu yucallimu man laa yacrafu!\r\n\u0645\u0646 \u064A\u0639\u0631\u0641
    \u064A\u0643\u0644\u0645 \u0645\u0646 \u0644\u0627 \u064A\u0639\u0631\u0641\r\n\r\nc=cayn:\r\n\r\n\u0645\u064E\u0646\u0652
    \u06CC\u064E\u0639\u0652\u0631\u064E\u0641\u064F \u06CC\u064F\u0639\u064E\u0644\u0650\u0651\u0645\u064F
    \u0645\u064E\u0646\u0652 \u0644\u064E\u0627 \u06CC\u064E\u0639\u0652\u0631\u064E\u0641\u064F
    \r\n\r\nThomas Milo\r\nDecoType\r\nwww.decotype.com"
  created: '2008-06-19 10:40:17'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> WinSoft and DecoType have all the expertise in house.\r\n\r\nYa! By now,
    I know you and my Turkish friend:\r\nhttp://rtsoft.dilafilm.com.tr/\r\nIs there
    any Arab among you?\r\nMan yacrafu yucallimu man laa yacrafu!\r\n\u0645\u0646
    \u064A\u0639\u0631\u0641 \u064A\u0639\u0644\u0645 \u0645\u0646 \u0644\u0627 \u064A\u0639\u0631\u0641\r\nc=cayn:
    \ appears in all words.\r\nWhile editing my post, my little daughter has come
    up to kiss me on my forehead.\r\nSo I have to respond to something more important
    than Type?!\r\nCorrecting your vocalization, you have to replace the Fatha of
    r of yacrafu with Kasra! \r\nFlowers to All the expertise in house\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-19 11:10:53'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "Dear Aziz,\r\n\r\nYou are confusing grammar with script structure are typography.
    \r\n\r\nAnyway, since when can a Dutchman not make a minor error in Arabic, while
    all foreigners are happily screwing all over English?\r\n\r\nBulbs, \r\n\r\nThomas
    Milo\r\nDecoType\r\nwww.decotype.com"
  created: '2008-06-19 12:08:17'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Thank you Tom for the promise of falafel \u0641\u0644\u0627\u0641\u0644 !
    \  Aziz a daughter's love is worth the whole world \u0647\u0646\u064A\u0626\u0627
    \u0644\u0643."
  created: '2008-06-19 12:57:16'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Aziz wrote:\r\n\r\n>>Is there any Arab among you?\r\n\r\nAs a matter of fact
    I think the managers of Winsoft are Arabs, but this is completely irrelevant since
    Arabic is an international script, like English.  Crucial expertise and contribution
    of non Arabs is well documented from the days of the first \"melting pot\" city
    on earth \"Baghdad\".  Sibowayh?!\r\n\r\n>>While editing my post, my little daughter
    has come up to kiss me on my forehead.\r\nSo I have to respond to something more
    important than Type?!\r\n\r\nWhy not naming your next font after your little daughter,
    this way you can instill your love of Arabic type in her instead of dividing it
    :-)\r\n\r\n-Saad\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-19 15:40:57'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Vladimir wrote:\r\n\r\n>>Saad- surely legibility was an unwritten law? A
    beautiful harmonious but unreadable style would have been discarded as a script
    evolved.\r\n\r\nOnly to some degree. Calligraphers were more busy with harmony
    and visual effect than with readers inability to read the text. They felt free
    to mold the letters leaving the reader  to solve the puzzle. As a matter of fact,
    complicating the Arabic script for the sake of calligraphy contributed to high
    illiteracy rates then and is contributing even now. \r\n\r\n-Saad"
  created: '2008-06-19 15:46:22'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: ">>>>Is there any Arab among you?>>\r\nMe. Also Tom's dedication to Arabic
    has practically made him an Arab.\r\n\r\n>>>>Calligraphers were more busy with
    harmony and visual effect than with readers inability to read the text. They felt
    free to mold the letters leaving the reader to solve the puzzle. As a matter of
    fact, complicating the Arabic script for the sake of calligraphy>>>\r\nIt is true
    that under Islam geometrical patterns and scripts were prized as a sophisticated
    \ abstract art form. This led to illegible calligraphic styles that were enjoyed
    as decorative puzzles. At the same time it was a period of intensive scholarship
    when books on science, philosophy and theology were written by skilled scribes.
    For those books legibility would have been important. This lead to the highly
    legible naskh. Later for official Ottoman government documents the highly legible
    ruq'a was adopted.  \r\n"
  created: '2008-06-20 05:25:07'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "I feel reminded of a previous discussions about the goods and bads of DecoType/WinSoft\u2019s
    InDesign plug-in Tasmeem, a layout engine for typesetting Arabic which uses a
    special font format. Thomas Milo usually presents its capabilities with help of
    a high-end typeface of a special style. (By the analysis of this style he arrived
    at the technology, but in the end the technology is suited for any other style
    too.) To my amusement or regret (depends on my mood) this provoked some critics
    to blame him for propagating this particular style which they consider outdated
    \u2014 and disregard the layout engine because of the style of the typeface used
    for presentations! A layout engine of course is \u201Cmere\u201D technology and
    is ignorant of anything like designers\u2019 sentiments.\r\nSame is true for iKern.
    If you object to a Fell being kerned at all, then I had preferred if there were
    no \u201Cautomated\u201D in \u201Capplying automated spacing to pre-designed types\u201D.
    \ ;-)\r\n_____________________________________ k.l. on 12.Jun.2008 1.48pm\r\nRead
    more...\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/46301\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-23 13:48:18'
- author:
    name: behnam
  body: "Back to John Hudson suggested space builder pattern, how about some additions?\r\n\u062F\u062F\u0648\u0627\u0648\u0631\u0627\u0631\u062F\u0627\u062F\u0627\u0627\u0644\u0645\u0627\u0627\r\nIf
    the left side bearing of all glyphs are set to zero, the right side bearing of
    alef would define the right side bearing of dal, reh waw and all no right joiner
    glyphs. And the same amount cut off from left of reh and waw (as a start) and
    half of that amount added to the right of alef (and its final form).\r\nJust a
    thought."
  created: '2008-07-04 02:11:10'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Behnam, I guess you are of Iranian origin.\r\nIf so, I have to say Beh Beh
    Nam Shoma BehNam\r\nIf not, Your thought is a THOUGHT INDEED?!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-04 10:32:12'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "That sounds interesting behnam, thanks\r\n<em>\u062F\u062F\u0648\u0627\u0648\u0631\u0627\u0631\u062F\u0627\u062F\u0627\u0627\u0644\u0645\u0627\u0627</em>\r\nCan
    you provide a graphic or screen shot with large-size glyphs and bearings to illustrate
    your ideas?  \r\nWould these rules of thumb depend on the vertical stem thickness
    of the letters?\r\nIn other words would you expand the spaces as the font gets
    bolder?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-04 10:32:18'
- author:
    name: behnam
  body: "I'm in the middle of moving now. I'll expand this idea when I have time.
    But until then, suppose this:\r\nFontLab adds an Arabic spacing tool which produce
    a preview of that string (it has to be expanded and include initial jeem for example).\r\nAll
    characters are initially set at zero side bearing on both sides (where applicable).
    Then you have a 'master' side bearing glider that you can manually adjust the
    value of \"s\" as the value of side bearing. As you increase this value from initial
    zero, it is applied to all characters of that string with a coefficient number.\r\nThat
    coefficient number would be 1 for right side of all characters (except jeem for
    which it should be 1/2). And coefficient number for the left side should be zero
    for all, except reh and waw for which it should be -1 and for alef for which it
    should be +1/2.\r\nNow as you slide the 'master' spacing line, you stop where
    that string looks good! That's your spacing!\r\nAziz you are right. I'm Persian
    that's why I usually use jeh in my string too, to make sure dots are not messed
    up!\r\nThis is my idea of spacing setting. I usually apply it to all characters,
    even assorted alefs. But we have not yet discussed in this topic about the 'kerning'
    part, which I usually use to undue the damage after the spacing is being set.\r\nSo
    this scheme can be applied to any font, regardless of the thickness of the characters.
    Actually in my experience, bold fonts tend to need less spacing."
  created: '2008-07-04 16:17:32'
- author:
    name: behnam
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ArabicSpacing_3592.png]\r\nI don't know
    if this picture can illustrate it or not. It's setting the spacing based on above
    mentioned scheme, and then do the corrections by kerning. BTW I don't know how
    to edit previously posted text and this 'undue' in my previous post is getting
    on my nerves!.. Miss Tiffany, would you please undo the undue for me?!\r\n\r\nYou
    may notice that in picture sample, the right side bearing of alef is not following
    that 1/2 value of \"s\". It is more. In some other faces, it should be less. The
    point is that you only have one single variant for spacing which is \"s\". Then
    if you had 'side bearing classes' for each, depending the font face, you'd assign
    certain coefficient for the characters, the spacing adjustment can be controlled
    by variant \"s\" on one hand, and occasionally fine tuning the coefficient for
    side bearing class. I do this by creating normal classes, selecting and increasing
    and decreasing the side bearing. But it's hard to keep-up with every little changes
    you do in the value of \"s\". I often ignore them and later regret!\r\nA tool
    with those side bearing classes in which you can set the coefficient for the class
    is, for Arabic spacing, a tool made in heaven! also notice initial Khah (same
    thing as initial jeem etc.) has reduced spacing on its right. This is because
    the 'weight' of the character which is toward the left, remain balanced despite
    the extended line to the right.\r\nThe picture is for a sample with and without
    kerning.\r\nAs you see, I use the same spacing for alef with madda above. And
    madda, particularly in Persian use, can be really substantial! but I ignore it
    in spacing. Same thing with what in Persian is called 'sarkash' of kaf and gaf.
    I ignore them in setting spacing and I apply the side bearing based on its base
    body. Then I do the correction in kerning.\r\nLately I changed this method in
    my fonts because most browsers don't support kerning and as you see in the picture,
    the text without kerning correction can't survive. So now I do apply side bearing
    with considering 'sarkash' and then in kerning, I apply negative value when applicable.
    But the first method is better (in a perfect world).\r\nHope it interest you,\r\nBehnam"
  created: '2008-07-06 18:59:16'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "@ Why not naming your next font after your little daughter, this way you
    can instill your love of Arabic type in her instead of dividing it :-)\r\n\r\n@
    As I understand it, Aziz has made an incredible labor of love to create a unique
    font family (Wurud??)TTF (or OT?) with artistry and precision.\r\nLet us call
    it a full-course naskh meal by a master chef.\r\nWe look forward to the feast.\r\n______________________________________________________________________\r\n\r\nThanks
    Vladimir Tamari + Saad Abulhab with Flowers\r\n\r\n1. My daughter already carries
    the name of one of the fascinating Styles of Arabic Calligraphy:\r\nhttp://www.persiaart.net/rayhan/index.asp\r\nhttp://www.splart.net/forum/index.php?showtopic=9608\r\n\r\n2.
    My discovering of Rayhan.OTF by MaryamSot.com, and their discovering of my uncompromising
    Arabic Naskh font, we have joined forces \u2014 after 5 long meetings \u2014 to
    redo both fonts (Rayhan+Zaynab) and add them afterward to their fantastic MirEmad.\r\n\r\nSo
    virtually MaryamSoft will carry the names of my Goldfish+2Flowers: Rayhan+Zaynab.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-11 10:38:29'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Good luck Aziz - I am sure all of us here will be happy to see your fonts
    succeed in the market and make you and the the fonts' namesakes proud. \r\n\r\nThanks
    behnam I have been rather busy and only saw your message today - I will study
    your illustrated explanation carefully."
  created: '2008-07-14 15:10:31'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "behnam, I printed the image and text of your message and will take a little
    time studying them.\r\nAs to deleting the insignificant mistake in your message
    I would not be unduly worried. Remember the words of your fellow Persian the great
    Omar Khayyam:\r\n\r\nThe Moving Finger writes; and, having writ,\r\nMoves on:
    nor all your* Piety nor Wit\r\nShall lure it back to cancel half a Line,\r\nNor
    all your Tears wash out a Word of it\r\n____________________________\r\n*or Miss
    Tiffany's?"
  created: '2008-07-16 08:12:11'
- author:
    name: behnam
  body: "That was lovely Vladimir. I only wish I could picture its original wording
    but I couldn't. But I'll keep looking!\r\nOh yes, maybe my mistyped issue was
    a little overstated. It was intended jokingly! Not a big deal at all.\r\n\r\nGlad
    you spend time to study it. It shouldn't be a complicated issue for a coder to
    figure out how to implement it as a tool. I'm just hopeless in technical matters
    (among other things!)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nBehnam"
  created: '2008-07-17 03:05:51'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "<em>I only wish I could picture its original wording but I couldn\u2019t.
    But I\u2019ll keep looking!</em>\r\n\r\nExactly- one wants to see the verses written
    in Farsi. There is the famous manuscript at Oxford with the Rubaiyat. Are there
    any known examples of Omar Khayyam's own handwriting? Also the English I quoted
    is known to be too freely translated often changing the meaning.\r\n\r\nThanks
    behnam! Your 'dream software' for spacing Arabic  sounds very interesting hope
    Fontlab is listening. In the sense that it lets you choose the spacing in a proportional
    way for all glyphs simultaneously, it sounds a lot like one function of DecoType's
    Tasmeem on InDesign ME.  Too bad many programs do not apply kerning, so the only
    practical way remains to do manual spacing as you showed. "
  created: '2008-07-20 15:41:37'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> Too bad many programs do not apply kerning, so the only practical way remains
    to do manual spacing as you showed.\r\n\r\nKerning is a font built-in feature.
    \r\nIt is automatic in Adobe Arabic OTF.\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/19609\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/20638\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/36706\r\nAs
    for the Programs and Programming, say with me:\r\nHappy Kerning with Flowers\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-20 18:45:54'
- author:
    name: behnam
  body: "Well, this is my contribution, for however wants to implement it in a tool!\r\n\r\nI've
    been away from Iran too far and for too long to have any relevant information.
    But my instinct says that if the original manuscript of Khayyam existed, every
    single Iranian would have known it! In a region with a long history of far too
    many wars and far too many burnt cities and libraries, it is highly unlikely that
    we ever see the original manuscript of any great writer. But the manuscript of
    Oxford library seems to be one of credible references.\r\nhttp://www.bestirantravel.com/culture/poetry/khayam_old.html\r\nEdward
    Fitzgerald, as you mentioned, was a poet who made poetry based on his inspiration
    of Khayyam. I guess this is the best way to put it, and perhaps the only way to
    translate Persian poetry. Khayyam could not be known in English literary if it
    was otherwise. So I personally don't see this free style of translation as a fallback.\r\nEven
    in Persian, it was not uncommon for someone to reproduce the book of a great poet
    with adding one or two verses of his own, inspired by his greatness! This makes
    the task of authentication very difficult for researchers. But 'culturally' speaking,
    this is not considered a forgery. It is considered a tribute to a great poet.
    If a verse is good enough to be Khayyam, it is Khayyam as far as I'm concerned!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-20 19:36:28'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> In a region with a long history of far too many wars and far too many burnt
    cities and libraries, it is highly unlikely that we ever see the original manuscript
    of any great writer.\r\n\r\nSorry for Behnam! Name any great Iranian writer,\r\nand
    I will send you the link you miss. Worth Reading:\r\nhttp://taghrib.ir/english/?pgid=43&scid=39&dcid=42015\r\nFlowers
    for Peace-loving Nations. "
  created: '2008-07-21 05:10:08'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Of course behnam, Fitzgerald's translation is invaluable because it made
    the Rubaiyyat famous and it has added its own enjoyable quaint Victorian style.
    But surely Khayyam's poems deserve a more modern translation, particularly as
    Fitzgerald has been accused of transforming spiritual ideas into praise for a
    hedonistic lifestyle.\r\n\r\nAziz I enjoyed your \u0635\u062E\u0631\u0629 kerning
    example. Google is almighty, but can it recreate lost manuscripts?  "
  created: '2008-07-24 02:09:46'
- author:
    name: behnam
  body: This is increasingly getting off topic Vladimir. But in two lines, I'd say
    both Khayyam and Fitzgerald were praising hedonistic lifestyle, not as a goal,
    but as a vehicle to express some ideas about freedom of mind. Victorian era might
    be a good reason for Fitzgerald to be attracted to those ideas. When Khayyam talks
    about wine, he means that well known alcoholic beverage and not some symbolic
    medium to some spiritual pleasure that some people claim! These people can not
    face the fact that this great person was completely ignoring Islamic rules and
    was following his own mind. But Khayyam meant what he meant. A modern translation
    can only emphasis this. The spirituality is right there.
  created: '2008-07-25 02:44:59'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> ... people can not face the fact that this great person was completely
    ignoring Islamic rules and was following his own mind. But Khayyam meant what
    he meant.\r\n\r\nThough I am too far from being great but I hope people wont accuse
    me \u2014 after my death \u2014 of completely ignoring Islamic rules and following
    my own mind when they read The Tighter, The Nicer.\r\n\r\nFlowers for All\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-25 06:47:10'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: ">... Google is almighty, but can it recreate lost manuscripts?\r\n\r\nOf
    course No! But can it recreate yet-to-be-documented nicely-handwritten manuscripts
    that need years of hard work just to be data-based. Know that Google is a new-born
    and the Iranian nation has just got its independence.\r\n\r\nAgain Flowers to
    All."
  created: '2008-07-25 07:17:43'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "<em>This is increasingly getting off topic</em>\r\n..yes of course behnam.I
    once wondered whether this was OK in Typophile threads and was reassured that
    it is quite normal to go on all sorts of tangents in discussions. I now realize
    that part of the value of Typophile is to provide a place to relax from the rigors
    of font-making.  You may well be right about the earthiness of Khayyam's verse
    - but wine is spirit-ual however one reads it!  Still, one likes to see a translation
    free from Victorian sentimentality and the need to rhyme etc. \r\n\r\nGoing back
    to your idea for a spacing scheme I wonder if this is the sort of thing that can
    be implemented with Python scripts? My hope is that you and others will start
    new threads here, perhaps 'Arabic Features I'd like to See in Fontlab'. I would
    start it but do not want to appear to monopolize this space, so please feel free.\r\n<em>
    I hope people wont accuse me \u2014 after my death \u2014 of completely ignoring
    Islamic rules and following my own mind...</em>\r\nAziz \u0644\u0643 \u0637\u0648\u0644
    \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0645\u0631 Long Life to you. I think that each of the thousands
    of glyphs you designed will be a credited to your account to answer anybody's
    accusations in this life or the next!"
  created: '2008-07-26 10:06:36'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "And long life with Flowers to VladimirTamari+his household.\r\nMay God bless
    your clicking Finger \r\n "
  created: '2008-07-26 10:17:09'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Bahnam wrote:\r\n\r\n>>If the left side bearing of all glyphs are set to
    zero, the right side bearing of alef would define the right side bearing of dal,
    reh waw and all no right joiner glyphs. \r\n\r\nI too believe this is the best
    course in handling spacing. I used this principle in my fonts by divining letters/glyphs
    (from connectivity aspect) to restricted (no right joiner included) and non-restricted.
    \ Restricted get built-in spaces to avoid kerning. Non restricted are set to zero
    (or more if one design isolated glyph fonts) side bearing.  \r\n\r\nBahnam suggestion
    to build the principle as tool in Fontlab is great one.  It would save designers
    a good time.\r\n\r\n-Saad\r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-26 13:02:21'
- author:
    name: behnam
  body: "Yes, the idea is to minimize kerning by implementing a proper spacing from
    the get go. My main concern was applications and mediums which don't have sophisticated
    text rendering. Think of text messaging for example. But also, it seems that kerning
    chews a lot of CPU activities and slows down the process. I don't have scientific
    knowledge about it but in my experience it certainly feels that way.\r\nSo if
    we are designing fonts for high end publishing environment, it really doesn't
    matter. But if the intention is a general purpose font, minimizing kerning to
    strict minimum is important.\r\nAs I said earlier, I'm not a coder and have no
    knowledge about programming whatsoever. So I can't initiate a topic revolving
    the design of an Arabic script font tool. This is a very good idea though but
    it should be initiated by someone who actually intends to make a tool. Then we
    can all contribute and give our inputs for such project."
  created: '2008-07-26 14:43:04'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Re-reading Bahnam's suggestion, I see that we are probably not talking about
    the same thing. In my approach, all restricted letters/glyphs get extra spaces:
    those that do not join on left - like Raa, Dal, waw... - get extra built-in space
    on the left; And those that do not join at all -like Hamzah - get space on both
    sides.  This would apply to all shapes: initial, isolated and final. \r\n\r\nNon
    restricted letters/glyphs are all the rest of the letters which can be either
    joined on both sides, one side, or be isolated, like Haa, baa, ayn, Faa, ..etc.
    These all get zero or one value side bearing. Again, this would apply to all shapes:
    initial, medial, isolated and final.\r\n\r\nKerning can then be applied to final
    shapes of restricted and some non-restricted letters like jeem ...etc, depending
    on style, but it would not be required.\r\n\r\n-Saad \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-26 16:08:47'
- author:
    name: behnam
  body: "Yes I suspected that we were not applying the spacing the same way. But the
    point is that if we had an \"s\" variant and designated coefficient for side bearing
    classes, we could apply it anyway we want.\r\nHaving an equal spacing on the right
    side of all glyphs (where applicable) would ensure a better spacing (basic) setting
    for a character like reh, that could use a -1 coefficient for its left side and
    this cut-off portion would be absorbed by \"s\" value of the right side of any
    glyph which might be at the left side of reh. A +1/2 coefficient for the left
    side of alef (again, as a start) also is an important part of balancing the whole
    thing."
  created: '2008-07-26 16:42:42'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: ">>But the point is that if we had an \u201Cs\u201D variant and designated
    coefficient for side bearing classes, we could apply it anyway we want.\r\n\r\nBahnam,
    Yes, this is the beneficial central point. Both of our approaches recognize the
    importance of designating \"side bearing classes\" to simplify the kerning task.\r\n\r\n-Saad\r\n
    \ "
  created: '2008-07-26 16:52:52'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: Arabic is so fonty that if she encounters a sophisticated one such as Kaf,
    she narrows limbs to push it away but if she encounters a dwarf one such as meem,
    she lets it penetrate fully to relax. And it is not the (letter) length, not the
    (fontlab) strength but the resistance (to spacings) that counts!
  created: '2008-07-26 20:21:39'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Behnam, I have a question about <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/46166#comment-287949\">this
    earlier screenshot</a>: Did you just forget to activate the \"RTL\" button before
    doing the screenshot, or do you kern Arabic without activating \"RTL\" mode?\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2008-07-28 12:34:25'
- author:
    name: behnam
  body: Oh this was just for the pattern demonstration. Kerning if applied in ltr
    preview will be applied in opposite side of the glyph. I don't know if it functions
    properly in rtl setting though. Because I made all my sample patterns in ltr setting,
    I stayed with it. A friend of mine made me a little application that reverse the
    kerning after the font is made. I vaguely remember that the kerning didn't work
    properly in rtl setting of the preview either. But this was about the version
    4. I don't know about now.
  created: '2008-07-29 02:27:50'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "It seems that with FLS5 it works like it should.\r\nThere is an 'RTL' button
    both in the Kerning Window and in the OpenType Feature section of the Preview
    panel. (Though not in the Preview section of this panel.) Since FLS5's internal
    logic for kerning and classes goes by \"1st and 2nd glyph of a pair\" (in RTL
    mode the 1st glyph of a pair is the right one), FLS5's kerning data can be transformed
    (almost) 1:1 into OT feature logic, e.g. with kern2volt. So it makes sense to
    use the Kerning Window's RTL mode when kerning Arabic.\r\n\r\nBut if you have
    a workflow with text patterns and tools already, then there's no need for change."
  created: '2008-07-29 11:29:25'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "\"It is not necessary to spend much time on defining sidebearings,\r\njust
    set them to zero.\"\r\nYou got it Karsten http://kltf.de/kltf_notes_ace1.htm\r\nAll
    the Best with Flowers"
  created: '2008-11-08 17:49:49'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I love this thread\u2026 :=)\r\nI will read it in full. But\u2026 Flowers?
    :P"
  created: '2008-11-14 21:22:09'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "<em>But\u2026 Flowers? :P </em>\r\nThere are two types of posts on Typophile,
    those that are flowerized by Aziz (or Azizified with flowers), and those that
    are not :) He is an expert font designer with many interesting ideas on Arabic
    fonts, sometimes expressed rather enigmatically!"
  created: '2008-11-16 07:05:12'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Thanks Vladimir with http://www.flowerpod.com.sg/portal\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/51401\r\nhttp://www.asiafinest.com/forum/index.php?s=0ac095352a2a1eabdb6f3e4c104dbbdb&showtopic=180296\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-16 08:01:28'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Caleidoscopic\u2026 :)"
  created: '2008-11-16 12:21:18'
date: '2008-06-07 03:27:07'
title: Testing, Spacing, Kerning and Hinting Arabic Fonts

---
