---
author:
  name: AGL
  picture: 114388
body: "KICKOFF\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Century_Gothic\">Century
  Gothic</a>\r\n\r\nNow is for real. No more 'friendlies' where points are not at
  stake and may bore the audience. What do you think or bet will survive and get to
  the finals?\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/groups_4754.gif]\r\n\r\nFeel
  free to add your bet or hopes. Just add a related or unrelated font if you will.
  \r\nAs I write this it is 4 hours and 12 minutes to the kick off...\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: I know soccer/football is thrilling to a lot of folks, but I'm not sure I
    understand how this relates to typography.
  created: '2008-06-07 14:53:05'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "Helvetica : Swiss - Akzidenz-Grotesk : Germany - Peignot : France. Elzevir
    : Dutch.\r\nI think is fun :-)"
  created: '2008-06-07 18:56:50'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>I\u2019m not sure I understand how this relates to typography.</cite>\r\n\r\nMe
    neither, but the same goes for <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/45949\">top
    10 albums</a> and other <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/123?page=1\">music</a>
    \u2013\_two of the most popular recent threads, by the way. Oh well!"
  created: '2008-06-08 12:44:55'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I\u2019m not sure I understand how this relates to typography.\r\n\r\n>Me
    neither, but the same goes for top 10 albums and other music \r\n\r\nSurely the
    link between music and typography is Apple? Apple invented both digital typography
    and digital music. "
  created: '2008-06-08 17:29:39'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: So far the only things I've really paid attention to has been type treatment
    in shirts (font/gemena/capitals) and team logos (the Swiss team had a new one).
    My husband commented on the extended use of gemena from names in shirts to MacDonalds'
    "i'm loving it" on the sideboard ads.
  created: '2008-06-08 20:09:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I\u2019m not sure I understand how this relates to typography.\"\r\n\r\nMaybe
    it is that people get a big kick out of both of them or just that they are having
    a ball while talking type? Either way, it's hands off for the non-footballers
    here and a heads-up to those willing to toe the line :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-06-08 20:58:09'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "Well, mixing football / soccer to typography is easy. I just received my
    idle player 36\"x44\" poster to glue on the wall :-)\r\n\r\nChristian Dez Piero\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dezPiero_3795.jpg]"
  created: '2008-06-09 15:13:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Andr\xE9,\r\nLOL!!! That  is fabulous! My kids will get a big kick out of
    it!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-06-09 16:14:08'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "<em>I\u2019m not sure I understand how this relates to typography.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    great ideal of dutch football has always been to play effective but not without
    playing beautiful as well.\r\n\r\nTonight they beat the current world champion
    Italy 3:0.\r\nThey could make it to the final (against Germany maybe?)."
  created: '2008-06-09 23:17:27'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "... The only football shirt I own is a dutch one:\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Jan_KNVB_6156.jpg]"
  created: '2008-06-09 23:50:29'
- author:
    name: clashmore
    picture: 114206
  body: ORANJE!
  created: '2008-06-10 08:24:53'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "In a final between Germany and Holland, there is no question where my loyalties
    fall. But watching that game against Italy last night, all I have to say is\u2026
    damn! God, I hope those Italians get sent home as soon as possible. As for the
    Dutch football style, if those long passes weren't beautiful, I don't know what
    is. Good job, Oranje."
  created: '2008-06-10 10:13:44'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: the Italy numbers are kinda cool, typographically[img:sites/default/files/old-images/italy_5857.png]
  created: '2008-06-10 11:52:55'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "Yes. Due to painful Nistelrooy's effect. But it also could have been that
    \"Christian Dez Piero\" was playing as midfielder...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1_4168.jpg]\r\n\r\nBut
    wait, there are still more games in this death - group\r\n\r\nChris, I am glad
    you like the poster. After printed, you have to autograph it :-)"
  created: '2008-06-10 13:18:18'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: '"the Italy numbers are kinda cool, typographically" - Were they made with
    Fontstruct?'
  created: '2008-06-10 13:19:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"After printed, you have to autograph it :-)\"\r\n\r\nBe happy to! I guess
    it would be our secret that I am probably the worst soccer player ever on the
    face of the earth :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-06-10 14:10:57'
- author:
    name: julienbidoret
    picture: 110538
  body: "Type and football/soccer; two links to see and read more:\r\n[[http://eric.de-berranger.club.fr/pages/typo.html|\xC9ric
    de Berranger]]'s LFP : http://ericdeberranger.free.fr/pages/present/lfp.html\r\nand
    a linotype article on football shirts : http://www.linotype.com/2710/footbaljerseyfonts.html"
  created: '2008-06-10 14:13:12'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: Carefull. One leg of Dez Piero is worth 5 millllin bucks, ensured :-)
  created: '2008-06-10 14:44:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "With my very bad knees and poor mobility (and at age 64), I don't think my
    legs are worth 5 cents let alone $5million :-) \r\nI still hobble around on the
    tennis court, though. My strokes are still pretty good--if only I could get to
    the ball!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-06-10 15:48:44'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "OK. Every team played once now. Best performance so far: Spain!!!\r\nAn absolute
    joy to watch."
  created: '2008-06-10 23:53:57'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: I'm cheering for Sweden.
  created: '2008-06-11 00:00:38'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "I'm rooting for the teams who play beautiful soccer, but never win. That
    would be: Portugal & Netherlands\r\n\r\nLiving in Little Portugal here in Santa
    Clara, CA (technically little azores) I fully expect a parade on triumph. That
    in addition to the normally scheduled monthly parade for Saint Salgu\xE9m de Algures."
  created: '2008-06-11 00:49:10'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "My house is cheering for Portugal too. \r\n\r\nRandy, I didn't know you were
    in Santa Clara!"
  created: '2008-06-11 01:13:39'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I was picking Greece to repeat (I was in Greece for Euro 2004) - sadly it''s
    not looking so good for them this time around.  '
  created: '2008-06-11 01:16:43'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "This year is for us...eh eh\r\nFor\xE7a Portugal!\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio"
  created: '2008-06-11 02:15:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Cristiano will be crying for the right reason.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cc_6659.jpg]"
  created: '2008-06-11 02:33:53'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "sii\r\n\r\n\"Cristiano will be crying for the right reason.\"\r\n\r\n...of
    joy? ;-)\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio"
  created: '2008-06-11 10:03:22'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I'd love to see a Type Design Euro 2008 where representative typefaces from
    each of the 16 countries battle each other. But due to my lack of knowledge, I'm
    afraid I can't name a single type design from Romania, Croatia, Turkey, Austria,
    and Poland...\r\n\r\nIt would be interesting to compare type design and footballing
    prowesses of the Euro 2008 participants. Type-wise, my hunch would be that the
    Netherlands become strong favourites.\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-11 11:04:05'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/villa_3715.jpg]\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fernando_Torres\">El
    Ni\xF1o</a> y <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Villa\">Villa</a>\r\n\r\nSpain
    4 - 0 Russia had a lot of gols, Ol\xE9eee! It is going to be exciting to find
    out if Spain will make it better this time around. For forty something years they
    have been under achieving on big competitions... \r\n\r\nI highlight the awesome
    performance of <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zlatan_Ibrahimovi\u0107\">Ibrahimovi\u0107</a>
    who scored a BIG one against Greece.\r\nI guess that in every caf\xE9 bar in Portugal
    people were delighted when that ball got in ;-). I say that because the last Euro
    final, the Greeks took it...\r\n\r\nI couldn't find a better picture of Ibrahimovi\u0107,
    but this one is fun ;;-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sweeds_5072.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    am hoping Portugal and Greece met again on a rematch...\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-11 12:16:16'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "<em>I am hoping Portugal and Greece met again on a rematch...</em>\r\n\r\nNo
    chance. Greece won\u2019t survive the first round."
  created: '2008-06-11 13:10:17'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: Yes Jan, I know. Anyway, I and my propensity to impossible ideas ... :-)
  created: '2008-06-11 13:26:18'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "Except for all the Greeks you are probably the only person in the world who
    wants to see Greece play another game ;-)\r\nIt was horrible."
  created: '2008-06-11 13:30:34'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> Apple invented both digital typography and digital music.\r\n\r\nWhaaaa?
    I would think that Compugraphic or one of its generation invented digital typography.
    And I really think that digital music existed before the Ipod."
  created: '2008-06-11 13:40:00'
- author:
    name: badslicer
    picture: 114666
  body: I thought the Greek coach would eat his bench, with olive oil.
  created: '2008-06-11 14:06:58'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>Spain 4 - 0 Russia had a lot of gols, Ol\xE9eee!</cite>\r\n\r\nYou
    mean Spain 4 - 1 Russia. So that's even more goals. Spain were mighty impressive,
    but one does feel bad about Russia having to play without Arshavin (suspended
    for first two matches) and Pogrebnyak (out injured), two of their best players
    who guided Zenit St. Petersburg to the UEFA Cup title.\r\n\r\nRussia have struggled
    internationally since the former Soviet teams all went their separate ways (with
    a few exceptions like Lev Yashin, most former Soviet stars were non-Russian),
    but I thought that for once they had a genuine pool of talent. I guess the only
    Cyrillic users among the Euro 2008 participants are too young and inexperienced.
    With Greece struggling as well, it's back to Latin-alphabet dominance in the European
    Championships.\r\n\r\nPop quiz: when were the two times that a non-Latin-alphabet-using
    team won the European Championships?"
  created: '2008-06-11 14:22:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I am hoping Portugal and Greece met again on a rematch...\r\n\r\nRevenge
    is a dish best served cold... with olive oil, feta and glass of Mythos beer. \r\n\r\n>Pop
    quiz: when were the two times that a non-Latin-alphabet-using team won the European
    Championships?\r\n\r\nWell, one was the Greeks last time. The other... "
  created: '2008-06-11 14:45:37'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: ">Pop quiz: when were the two times that a non-Latin-alphabet-using team won
    the European Championships?\r\n\r\nWell, one was the Greeks last time. The other...\r\n\r\n...
    was the Soviet Union 1960."
  created: '2008-06-11 14:56:54'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I would like to see Spain vs Germany on the final but I'm also keen to see
    matches between  Portugal and Italy and Netherlands and Spain. \r\n\r\n!Vamos
    Furia Roja!\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2008-06-11 15:07:30'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Sii and Jan are of course right... USSR in 1960, Greece in 2004. In 2004,
    I actually watched Greece defeat France in the semis at a Greek restaurant in
    Berlin, dining on fabulous Greek food. Boy were the Greeks celebrating.\r\n\r\n<cite>Revenge
    is a dish best served cold... with olive oil, feta and glass of Mythos beer.</cite>\r\n\r\nHmm...
    I'm suddenly getting really hungry."
  created: '2008-06-11 19:58:16'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Euro 2004 of course coincided with the ICTVC conference in Thessaloniki.
    Watched the France match in the hotel and then hit the streets with the rest of
    the city. Was on Santorini for the final, which was fun too, but a little more
    low-key. '
  created: '2008-06-11 20:26:10'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "The first host is out: Switzerland.\r\nI\u2019m afraid the same is going
    to happen to the other one tomorrow: Austria."
  created: '2008-06-11 21:48:28'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Bruno will be crying in his pint tonight... \r\n\r\nhttp://www.daltonmaag.com/browse2/custom/clients/puma?lang=de&offset=3 "
  created: '2008-06-11 21:57:03'
- author:
    name: Chiba Chiba
    picture: 112595
  body: "Can't really talk about football without talking about Brasil :P\r\n\r\nHere's
    our new uniform.\r\nhttp://img134.imageshack.us/img134/8900/20082010brasilhometg9.png\r\n\r\n\r\nAnd
    this is my local team and it's 2008 uniform:\r\nhttp://www.gremio.net/shop/product_detail.aspx?language=0&category_id=16&product_id=901\r\n\r\nAnd
    this is the AVALANCHE!\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KKnujGgUMco\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-11 22:51:10'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "eh...eh...\r\nThe first part is done...We are in the quarter-finals!!!!\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio\r\n\r\nPS-
    We dont want revenge...we just love football!!!!"
  created: '2008-06-11 22:57:06'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.euro2008.uefa.com/news/kind=1/newsid=713728.html#scolari+chelsea+after+euro\">Da
    Man</a>\r\nI Phil more relaxed now. I can imagine the parade maybe still going
    on. That is good though, can rest important players for the next big one. I say
    watch Turkey next match.\r\nI guess some people will be missed at their jobs,
    tomorrow.\r\n\r\nSwitzerland is out. Turkey would take even on Germany on a do
    or die match too...\r\n\r\n\" The first part is done...We are in the quarter-finals!!!!
    \""
  created: '2008-06-11 23:21:11'
- author:
    name: sihep
    picture: 112339
  body: Loads of Turkish people driving around playing air-horns at the moment, which
    is fair enough, but would quite like to get to sleep at some point.
  created: '2008-06-12 00:49:33'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "Dan - \"watching that game against Italy last night, all I have to say is\u2026
    damn! God, I hope those Italians get sent home as soon as possible\"\r\n\r\nYou
    know what, Italy has lost one game on the first round in many tournaments and
    always made it to the next level.. you never know, maybe the Ball Gods are roman
    deities...\r\n\r\n\" The first host is out: Switzerland \"\r\nI thought that too,
    but hey, still can make it. I never thought Germany would go down against Croacia.
    Was Croacia who took on Germany in 98?"
  created: '2008-06-12 22:09:55'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "Giuoco Calcio\r\n\r\nI collected some info on Italy. I could not find stuff
    in english...\r\nYou will find also some calcio science \xE0 la catenaccio.\r\n\r\nThe
    best find is an italian newspaper cover at the bottom, along some \"free\" soccer.
    :-)\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nSquadra Azzurra\r\nhttp://www.figc.it/\r\n\r\nGiuoco Calcio\r\nhttp://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Federazione_Italiana_Gioco_Calcio\r\n\r\nCatenaccio\r\nhttp://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catenaccio\r\n\r\nSchema
    (calcio)\r\nhttp://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schema_%28calcio%29\r\n\r\nModulo (calcio)\r\nhttp://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modulo_%28calcio%29\r\n\r\nCalcio
    Gratis\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FFYX0zjMXKw&feature=related\r\n\r\n1968
    Cover La Gazzetta dello Sport. Or browse for more options\r\nhttp://www.euro2008.uefa.com/history/index.html\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-13 13:05:00'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "there is not much things in this world i hate as much as football. being
    a resident of istanbul, it is almost a torture.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-06-13 13:32:32'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "<em>Was</em> it <em>Croacia who took on Germany in 98?</em>\r\n\r\nIn 1996
    Germany beat the Czechs 2:1 in the final (Euro Cup).\r\n\r\n1998 was the World
    Cup.\r\n\r\nWe sucked against Croatia.\r\nAnd Austria isn\u2019t out. Good for
    us."
  created: '2008-06-13 14:11:06'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "What an eventful night.\r\n\r\nJon Bon Jovi delayed his Amsterdam concert
    until the game had ended. Minutes after the final whistle he came up and started
    with an inpromptu \"Rocking all over the world\" -- wearing the national shirt!\r\n\r\n(The
    rest of the concert was awesome as well, an entertaining and surprising mix of
    golden hits and some of his latest, including an extra long version of \"Keep
    the faith\". A Very Good Evening. My sympathy goes out to my poor brother Henk,
    who supplied the tickets but had to forego 'cause he had a nasty accident, involving
    a few beers, a bike, a lamp post, and his face, in that order...)"
  created: '2008-06-14 02:12:54'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "\" there is not much things in this world i hate as much as football. being
    a resident of istanbul, it is almost a torture. \"\r\n\r\nYes David, totally understandable.
    Having a champs league matchs on a Wednesday in Istambul must be not fun ; I wonder
    how that people  move around and all that goes with it.\r\nWatch Turkey upcoming
    match, this is it, do or bye bye :-) I did collect some info on Turkish Football
    among other things.\r\n\r\nIstambul demographics\r\n\r\nhttp://www.arch.columbia.edu/Studio/Spring2002/UP/Istanbul/istanbul/istanbul.htm\r\n\r\nList
    of museums and monuments in Istanbul\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_museums_and_monuments_in_Istanbul\r\n\r\nGalatasaray
    Lisesi\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Galatasaray_Lisesi\r\n**\r\n\r\nturkish
    soccer\r\nhttp://www.angelfire.com/nj/sivritepe/5758/tl.html\r\n\r\nIstambul monuments\r\nhttp://www.about-turkey.com/tourism/monument.htm\r\n\r\nTurkey
    National Team\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turkey_national_football_team\r\n**\r\n\r\nSweeden\r\nhttp://en.euro2008.uefa.com/countries/cities/city=1851/news/newsid=716528.html#swedish+enclave+takes+shape+tirol\r\n**\r\n\r\n\"
    1998 was the World Cup. \" That is right. I see it as a international match. Was
    a blow up, in 98 and 08 (it makes a *10). Enjoy :-)\r\n\r\nDutch legions paint
    Berne orange\r\nhttp://en.euro2008.uefa.com/countries/cities/city=1226/fanzones/newsid=715693.html#dutch+legions+paint+berne+orange\r\n**\r\nFor
    those that like tha browse this is the daily report, check out:\r\n\r\nTournament
    Browser\r\nCheck out todays matchs\r\nhttp://en.euro2008.uefa.com/tournament/\r\n**\r\n\"
    Jon Bon Jovi delayed his Amsterdam concert until the game had ended. \"\r\n\r\nSure!
    People were watching it too :-)\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nComparison : Soccer v Football
    : Results\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/comparison_3537.gif]"
  created: '2008-06-14 14:59:29'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "As favorably inclined as he was towards all things British, Argentine writer
    Jorge Luis Borges was not a fan of football. He is supposed to have said, \"El
    f\xFAtbol es popular porque la estupidez es popular.\" In translation, \"Football
    is popular because stupidity is popular.\"\r\n\r\nI happen to love football, but
    I do see that football is often used as an excuse for displays of frightening
    stupidity. Istanbul in recent memory has been the setting of a particularly tragic
    incident, the stabbing deaths of two English fans who had come for a UEFA Cup
    match. So I see how David can feel that way about football.\r\n\r\nBy the way,
    I don't get the point of that Google search result comparison. Soccer is only
    used for association football, but football is used for several different variations
    including the rugby codes, American football, Aussie rules, and Gaelic football,
    so it will get a lot of non-association-football hits. Also, contrary to popular
    belief, 'soccer' is not a uniquely North American term; it is also used by Australians,
    New Zealanders, and many Anglophone Africans."
  created: '2008-06-15 14:31:22'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "I was thinking that today I would place some info about <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guus_Hiddink\">Guus
    Hiddink</a>, for the excellent job he did with many national teams. I am a fan,
    specially international sports, being soccer / football (or vise-versa) one my
    favorites. That is why I started this thing. Mixing or relating typography to
    football or soccer is that easy. I do see it, and if it is just me, that is even
    more interesting :-)\r\nI started to collect some links at some point cause I
    just wanted this to go on without incidents, and the results are random search
    results that have or may not have a relationship with the main topic, Type & Football
    / Soccer (or vise-versa). I will go ahead and speculate: Football is News, News
    is Interest which lead us to text and imaginery that will some how be imprinted
    to a surface being it paper or computer screen, or whatever it will be in 110
    years (lasers ? ).\r\nAnd that is all there is to it. It is really fun, come on
    ? Is it not ?\r\n\r\nAs for <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jorge_Luis_Borges\">Jorge
    Luis Borges</a>: Once a friend of mine told me while we were on a touristic incursion
    in the Costa Brava; he said \"Borges used to write like a englishman\". My friend
    is Argentine. So my replay to him was \"Borges writes like Borges - <a href=\"http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=boludo\">boludo...</a>\".
    I suppose he (Borges) said that because of <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Colosseum\">this</a>,
    and if it is not a starting point to answer the question as if to be or not in
    a 50 thousand people crowed may result in physical damages or bumps, it will certainly
    end up with more questions.\r\n\r\nThe thing with Soccer v Football search result
    comes from exactly it: Soccer is Football and Football is Soccer. I am sorry I
    can not be more vague about it. Thank God I did not mixed Soccer and Football
    (or vice-versa) on this <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/46055\">fashion.</a>\r\n\r\nNow,
    to cool down, the real fans\r\nhttp://www.euro2008.uefa.com/photos/\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fans_6288.jpg]"
  created: '2008-06-15 20:54:24'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1_5375.gif]\r\n\r\nNow the picture is
    taking form. It will be one of these teams to move up to the next level:\r\nSweden
    or Russia?\r\nRomania, France or italy?\r\nThat will make to the next quarter-finals.
    It could be Italy, as they are always helped by the Ball Gods. We will see.\r\nI
    don't like the idea that Germany - Portugal comes this soon in the competition,
    but hey, whatever. This could benefit other teams, and, maybe, just maybe we could
    have a unexpected champion: Romania, Spain or Turkey...\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-17 12:48:47'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "The match just ended 5 minutes ago...\r\nThe Gods Have Spoken\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aaaa_6691.jpg]\r\n\r\nFor
    your delight or scream.\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-17 21:56:26'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: i like that font
  created: '2008-06-17 22:07:30'
- author:
    name: clintonite@gmail.com
  body: "anyone know what the dutch font is? \r\n<a href=\"http://us.st12.yimg.com/us.st.yimg.com/I/yhst-7223899490465_2007_3993615575\"
    </a>"
  created: '2008-06-17 22:19:22'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/corriere2_4631.jpg]\r\n\r\nI love the
    header in this cover.\r\nTomorrow the expected of all matches. Germany v Portugal.
    What do you think is going to happen ? Good Luck in advance."
  created: '2008-06-18 23:13:55'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I think that Germany will beat Portugal, just like they did two years ago.
    Germany may not be playing well\u2026 but I'd say they've been better than Italy
    in this tournament. "
  created: '2008-06-18 23:28:57'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "I\u2019m not very optimistic. Of course I hope our boys make it but if they
    play like in the last two matches they won\u2019t beat Portugal.\r\n\r\nRussia
    played really well tonight.\r\nI\u2019m looking forward to seeing them against
    Oranje.\r\n\r\nBTW - what does \u201CPodolski, s\xEC alla Juve\u201D mean?\r\nAny
    Italians around? Podolski scored three times for Germany so far."
  created: '2008-06-19 00:15:23'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "@ jan\r\nJuventus is interested in him.\r\n\r\nhttp://afp.google.com/article/ALeqM5gJVOxdJ-8A28Hx5zD0KWdsgNpRdQ\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-19 08:34:39'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Dan Reynolds\r\n\r\nYes you win last time, but I remenber the 3-0 that we
    gave Germany in euro 2000 :-)\r\nSo...that the best win!\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio Fonseca"
  created: '2008-06-19 09:31:55'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Well, no matter what happens tonight, I'm sure that the best team with win.\r\n\r\nIf
    Germany doesn't make it past its game tonight, then I'm for Holland. Their ball
    magic will roll over the Italians (again) any day. And the Portuguese, too, I
    suspect."
  created: '2008-06-19 09:41:26'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "@ clintonite \" anyone know what the dutch font is? \".\r\nI was told that
    most of these fonts or similar ones are found on Dha Phont.\r\n\r\nI think Germany
    did not played well in two matches. Their first match was very good. Anyway, having
    a very good first round does not mean that you are going to make it to the end...
    Italy seems to play bad at start, as I have seen before, and make it to the final...\r\nI
    like to point that Croacia, Turkey and Russia are the ones to be looking at. Another
    very interesting match will be Netherlands - Russia; Guus Hiddink is excellent
    and has proven to be a super coach and the russians are playing a good ball.\r\n\r\nHere,
    a better picture of the coming matches:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/quarters_4016.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-19 11:48:34'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "Ai meu Santo Ant\xF3nio . . .\r\n\r\nOh my Saint Anthony . . .\r\nhttp://cyberteca.wordpress.com/2008/06/09/santo-antonio-de-lisboa-festas-de-lisboa-08/\r\nSorry
    the link is in Portuguese. But you could well be there and drink a glass of red
    with sardines on the grill ;-)"
  created: '2008-06-19 23:22:42'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "Yes. We did it again. Goodbye Portugal. Time to sing the Fado. Sorry Ant\xF3nio."
  created: '2008-06-20 08:52:17'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "Moving on ;-)\r\nToday's big One, Croacia - Turkey. Some info on their last
    match:\r\nhttp://www.ekathimerini.com/4dcgi/_w_articles_world_0_17/06/2008_97724\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-20 13:41:21'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Oy Vay,\r\n\r\nI actually watched the turkey-croatia match yesterday on a
    hd projector at some friends house, in istanbul. the house was filled with 9 guests,
    8 of them turkish (the 9th one being me). and though I really dont like football,
    I have to admit that it was unbelievable. And the way back home was also interesting.\r\n\r\nI
    can't imagine how its gonna be if they win again on wednesday.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-06-21 07:44:07'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "<em>I can\u2019t imagine how its gonna be if they win again on wednesday.</em>\r\n\r\nThey
    won\u2019t ;-)"
  created: '2008-06-21 11:04:58'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "Well, the thing is, it does not matter that you score lots of goals or the
    players worth 49.95 or 3 millllons. Sometimes the result is up to the Ball Gods.\r\n\r\nTurkey
    is in for the next big one. Against all odds: 119th minute comes immediately before
    120th minute.\r\nhttp://www.turkishdailynews.com.tr/article.php?enewsid=107814\r\n\r\nI
    will look at Russia - Netherlands with lots of interest.\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-21 11:54:07'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "<em>Well, the thing is, it does not matter that you score lots of goals ...</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    actually the thing is, if you don\u2019t score as much as the other team, you
    lose.\r\n\r\nGoals so far in the tournament:\r\nTurkey: 6\r\nGermany: 7\r\n\r\nI
    think the Ball Gods had so much work supporting Turkey that they might be exhausted."
  created: '2008-06-21 17:23:56'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "Oh yes lots of goals. That one goal so far won the game! Ballack 13. The
    other guys know how to suffer the game all the way to penalties, up to the gods.
    They have got 2 keepers. It is going to take a lot of water! Germany has more
    rest then Turkey, that is a disadvantage. The way I see it, anything could happen,
    but all points to the favorite.\r\nI am expecting a great match today. Is Russia
    going to do one of theirs? I am sure the Orange will provide. Enjoy!"
  created: '2008-06-21 17:55:12'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: http://goal.blogs.nytimes.com/2008/06/20/the-dutch-dilemma-sport-or-utlimate-victory/index.html?8dpc
  created: '2008-06-21 18:59:29'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "I found something interesting, I did not know about this: You can follow
    the match via flash(?) todays Spain - Italia.\r\nEn Espa\xF1ol. http://www.marca.com/marcador/futbol/2008/eurocopa/cuartos/spa_ita/\r\nEn
    English via the official website. Yesterday I could net see the big one on tv
    - npse did not showed the match.. . I could not believe that, but hey, that is
    it :-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-22 18:27:41'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "I found something interesting, I did not know about this: You can follow
    the match via flash(?) todays Spain - Italia.\r\nEn Espa\xF1ol. http://www.marca.com/marcador/futbol/2008/eurocopa/cuartos/spa_ita/\r\nEn
    English via the official website. Yesterday I could net see the big one on tv
    - npse did not showed the match.. . I could not believe that, but hey, that is
    it :-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-22 18:28:09'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Germany_national_football_team\r\n\r\nAfter
    a interval since the last big one, here goes a calling for your bets.\r\nI have
    found DW-World which has news in many languages. I tried to pull another nice
    cover but I was unable to get one. If you do know where to find one, feel free
    to place it here.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.germnews.de/dn/\r\n\r\nAs if we all know already
    who is going to move to the final, it still is uncertain: You never know what
    is going to happen. Sometimes things just happen by chance, and this game is full
    of it. if you are german I know exactly where your cheering is going, but, again,
    I would say that this is up to the gods.\r\n\r\nEnjoy and don't forget the BIG
    mug of beer\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/German_beer\r\n\r\nCheers :-)\r\n\r\n*This
    a real smile"
  created: '2008-06-25 12:44:55'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "As expected.\r\n\r\n\" Triumph der deutschen Effizienz \"\r\n\r\nhttp://www.spiegel.de/sport/fussball/0,1518,562128,00.html\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nBy
    the end of the day we will know the other finalist\r\n\r\nSpain - Russia, or Luis
    Aragon\xE9s - Guus Hiddink\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luis_Aragones\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guus_Hiddink\r\n\r\nTodays
    Marca cover:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/marca2_6314.jpg]"
  created: '2008-06-26 12:53:18'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "The gods were with us this time.\r\nSo, at least my bet that Germany would
    make it to the final was correct."
  created: '2008-06-26 12:55:59'
- author:
    name: Katharina
    picture: 112995
  body: 'I am proud to announce that in my quarter of Munich the relations between
    the Turkish and the German communities must be excellent. So - contrary to my
    worst nightmare - both teams were regarded as "ours", and after the game Germans
    comforted their Turkish neighbours, whereas the Turkish fans rejoiced: "We made
    the finals."'
  created: '2008-06-26 17:50:38'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "\" So, at least my bet that Germany would make it to the final was correct.
    \"\r\nIndeed sire, you know you game. By the way, sorry that the Orange didn't\r\nmake
    it ;-)\r\n\r\nYes, I sincerely didn't know what to think; the turkish players
    didn't want to \r\ngive it up. They were down few key player with injuries.\r\nGermany
    played well, not playing well. As is characteristic of the germans, they controlled
    somewhat the game and not taking risks. Again, as expected.\r\n\r\nThat soccer,
    footbal, fussball, f\xFAtbol &c. is a game of violentia I totally desagree.\r\nIt
    in the end creates a atmosphere that embraces everyone envolved \u2014but that
    goes for international competitions only, where the players make little money
    and without clubes pulling the strings.\r\n\r\nI will go on and come back up with
    a nice ending report of the final.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-06-27 00:24:11'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "Predicting Germany to be one of the finalists was easy. I just remembered
    what English football legend Gary Linneker once said:\r\n\r\n \r\n\u201CFootball
    is a simple game; 22 men chase a ball for 90 minutes and at the end, the Germans
    win.\u201D\r\n<em>\u2013 Gary Lineker \u2013</em>\r\n\r\nBut \u2013 it\u2019s
    gonna be a tough one against Spain, for sure."
  created: '2008-06-27 08:44:05'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "\u201CFootball is a simple game; 22 men chase a ball for 90 minutes and at
    the end, the Germans win.\u201D\r\n\u2013 Gary Lineker \u2013\r\n\r\nEdit:\r\n\u201CFootball
    is a complicated game; 22 men chase a ball for 90 minutes and at the end, the
    Germans win.\u201D - on European championships :-)\r\n\r\nor\r\n\r\nThe Germans
    are the bogeyman of the pitch."
  created: '2008-06-27 11:45:51'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Hehe\u2026 I always heard, <em>alle d\xFCrfen mitspielen, aber am Ende gewinnen
    die Deutschen.</em>\r\n\r\nEveryone is allowed to play, but the Germans win at
    the end."
  created: '2008-06-27 12:21:10'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "The Final (in alphabetic order)\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Germany_national_football_team\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joachim_Low\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ballack_4609.jpg]\r\nMore
    info on Germany\r\nhttp://www.euro2008.uefa.com/tournament/teams/team=47/profile=256/index.html\r\n***\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spain_National_Football_Team\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luis_Aragones\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/villa_6181.jpg]\r\nMore
    info on Spain\r\nhttp://www.euro2008.uefa.com/tournament/teams/team=122/index.html\r\n***\r\n\r\nTodays
    related news:\r\nhttp://www.spiegel.de/international/europe/0,1518,k-7348,00.html\r\n\r\n***\r\nMy
    squad on a 4x4x2 on defensive formation. On attack formation it is a 2x4x4:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/field_3669.png]\r\n\r\nTodays
    spanish cover (I was unable to find a german soccer paper with a cover)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/marca_4919.jpg]\r\n\r\nENJOY!"
  created: '2008-06-29 13:54:52'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "Spain deserves it. They played the most beautiful football. They were great
    throughout the whole tournament. I had a hard time deciding whom to support.\r\nI
    may be born in Germany, but I\u2019m made in Spain ;-)"
  created: '2008-06-29 23:08:55'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "Espa\xF1a, campeona de Europa!!\r\n:)"
  created: '2008-06-30 02:39:38'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Congrats to Spain! But the people in your embassy must be very boring\u2014when
    the Italians win big trophies their embassy staffers get drunk and drive around
    the neighborhood honking and shouting for hours!"
  created: '2008-06-30 04:11:55'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "Spain not just deserves it, I never seen a match so well executed. Hey, I
    took 44 years to get it again.\r\nI am happy for them. Many people will be missed
    at work today :-)\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.photoblog.com/storage001/2008/06/30/\">Espa\xF1a
    Campe\xF3n de Europa 2008</a>\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-30 12:24:54'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Felicidades, enhorabuena.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2008-06-30 16:00:25'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: i'm not even sure what the question is. what's with the century gothic link
    ?
  created: '2008-06-30 22:30:35'
date: '2008-06-07 12:47:44'
title: KICKOFF

---
