---
author:
  name: Yotam
body: "Hey there, \r\n\r\nI'm designing a Hebrew book, and looking for some advice
  on what would be the best Latin typeface to go together with the Hebrew face Hadassah.\r\nMost
  of the English appearances would appear in brackets or parenthesis, in the middle
  of Hebrew sentences\r\n\r\nAttached is a gif with my final option, from top to bottom
  -\r\nLinoLetter, Dederon Serif, Raleigh, Chapparel, Excelsior, Officina Serif\r\n\r\n\r\nSo,
  any Typophile opinions?\r\nwhich of these works best?\r\n\r\n\r\nMuch thanks in
  advance, \r\nY."
comments:
- author:
    name: francis bold
    picture: 114825
  body: "Interesting one. . . from a display point of view, Excelsior sits quite comfortable
    amongst the Hebrew.\r\n\r\nwhen reduced to body text to me Chapparel reduces well
    and holds its clarity, and would seem slightly more legible on the eye."
  created: '2008-06-08 22:04:16'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "This always brings up an interesting dilemma for me.\r\n\r\nComing from a
    calligraphic background I continually think contrast. In this interlinear translation
    piece I sparred with myself for days. What works and what doesn't work.\r\n\r\nThis
    piece of course is not a book so maybe? the same rules do not apply. But... I
    always want to see a sparkle engendered by the interplay of two styles. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/spirit_3454.jpg]\r\n\r\nDoes
    my questioning myself help you?\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-06-09 00:01:43'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Oh, and please don't tell me I made a spelling mistake in the Hebrew. I would
    be devastated 16 years later to find it out.\r\n\r\nBringhusrt deals with duos
    very effectively. Check out his book, it may spur your thoughts.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-06-09 00:14:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "If I remember rightly, Henri Friedlaender designed Hadassa partly under the
    influence of Jenson. At any rate, I think Adobe Jenson goes pretty well with it.
    \r\n\r\nAs you know, the biggest problem with almost any Hebrew with roman is
    that the stress is opposite--thick horzontal vs thin vertical, rather than the
    other way around. Mixing them on the same line, as your text (a list of names)
    seems to require, is the most difficult thing, and the contrast approach, which
    otherwise can be very good, may be hard to bring off in that situation. \r\n\r\nSo
    if you are going to use Hadassa, I would experiment with different sizes, weights
    and optical sizes of Adobe Jenson and see what harmonizes best. There are a whole
    lot of options with Adobe Jenson Pro Opticals, so you can probably find something
    that works reasonably well. I suspect you can find a combination that will work
    better than any of the fonts you've tried so far.   \r\n"
  created: '2008-06-09 02:23:54'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Here are a couple for you William. Who's Hebrew font is this. What is the
    underlying complexity of this piece that alludes to the split in East versus West
    writing, and (bonus points) what is the name of  the ductus (best word I can come
    up with)?\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-06-09 02:43:38'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Oh, and please don\u2019t tell me I made a spelling mistake in the Hebrew\r\n\r\nYes
    :)\r\n\r\n\r\n> If I remember rightly, Henri Friedlaender designed Hadassa partly
    under the influence of Jenson. \r\n\r\nI'm not sure, but let me read his paper.again.\r\n
    -- The Making of Hadassah Hebrew (1967, written in German)"
  created: '2008-06-09 02:45:13'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "No way David... really???????? It took me months to find a New Testament
    Bible in Hebrew for the scripture of James. Finally a local Rabbi got me a copy
    of one and I matched letter for letter. Now I am devastated and will have to call
    my 86 year old friend and call him on it... for not pointing out my error(s)!
    I usually run these things by three people at least. Cannot remember on this one.\r\n\r\nA
    self flogging is in order\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-06-09 03:04:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Michael, you've got be stumped on all three. \r\n\r\nOn the Hebrew font,
    the square corner on the hey vs the round bet looks a little odd to me, but I'm
    sure David can give a more expert analysis. I'll be daring and maybe make a fool
    of myself--not first time!--and guess that this font was not done by a Hebrew
    speaker.  \r\n\r\nAlso for me, Latin, Hebrew and Arabic are all Western, so I'm
    not getting the West vs East thing. \r\n\r\nThe main thing that puzzles me about
    your piece is why the quote from the New Testament, which is originally in Greek,
    would be translated into both Hebrew and English. As neither is the original language,
    who is this for? \r\n\r\nedit: I cross posted. Guf(body) is with a gimmel, not
    a nun. Also maybe the Dalet should be a hey, so it would then read \"haguf\" (the
    body). Right David? \r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2008-06-09 03:55:04'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "First off... leave it to a Gentile calligrapher to make a typo!  :)\r\n\r\nIf
    I am not mistaken it was one of Ismar David's faces. Phenomenal artist who made
    his way to NY via Germany and Israel. His sculpture is above reproach. Time dulls
    historical memories but google him.\r\n\r\nThe writing direction started to shift
    \"back and forth\" early on but was solidified in the sixth century B.C. Before
    that the writing, and, yes you are correct by the Greeks, was written boustrophedonically,
    as the oxen plows, literally reversing the non symmetric letters to suit the direction.
    Hence the multidirectional ethos of this piece. Subtle is always a plus in a design.
    I like the fact that most would not pick up on it.\r\n\r\nAs to Hebrew ... just
    a choice that would make my design point (and a bow to my father who was an Old
    Testament scholar)... Greek would not have worked. And english, well I grew up
    with the King James. Last time I looked, English was/is my first language... es
    la verdad!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-06-09 04:19:39'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: ">  so it would then read \u201Chaguf\u201D\r\n\r\nRight Bill. Also about
    the bet (the square corner on the hey vs the round bet).\r\n Around the 1930s
    & 1950s  Isamr David developed a family of book, sans & cursive. Your sample is
    the sans, of course;  far away from his original. Michael,  this is your work
    (revival)?"
  created: '2008-06-09 04:45:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Michael, I revised it a couple of times to be more concise. \r\n\r\nI at
    first discussed alternating lines (or pages) and your solution of contrast, which
    can work nicely, as in your example. But then I read the Hebrew of the first post
    and realized it was just a list of names, with the names also in roman. So it
    couldn't work with the alternate line--or page--approach. The roman and Hebrew
    had to be mixed in the same line.\r\n\r\nWhen I realized that, I cut out the discussion
    of contrast as off point. \r\n\r\nReference to your example was cut along with
    the discussion, with no malice toward you, but because it was off point. Now here
    it is back, OK?\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-09 04:46:36'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "William\r\n\r\nNoticed you edited me out of your first post! Hmmmmm?\r\n\r\nAnd
    I am not sure I agree that Hebrew and Arabic would be considered Western by any
    calligrapher's standards that I know. Totally different ethos. More of a painterly
    quality. Granted they are not pictographic but they are not Western. They are
    more, in my mind, Eastern in that they do not relate to the Latin. And the direction
    is a clear give away. The only common denominator is the type of pen but used
    in \"your ways,\" it is totally alien to Western scribes... even you admitted
    the vert vs. hor differences (that is a truly dramatic shift in the paradigm.
    I hate that word). \r\n\r\nDiametrically opposed take on forms. This is a very
    simplistic response, and I am sure not up to PHD standards, but I see the Middle
    Eastern as forms separate from both East and West while having characteristics
    of both. \r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-06-09 04:59:39'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I edited my edit. Sorry\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-06-09 05:03:22'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "William\r\n\r\nMaybe what I am trying to say is I do not see the genetics.
    I do in Greek and Cyrillic. \r\n\r\nSo help me if you will to see what you are
    saying.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-06-09 15:27:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Visually, the Greek caps and Cyrillic are obviously closer to Roman than
    Hebrew or Arabic. When I said they are all Western, I was really thinking of cultural
    history, as before modern times there was a lot interaction and influence between
    all these cultures--more than there was with India, and particularly more than
    there was with China and the rest of the far east. \r\n\r\nAs far as the scripts,
    I don't see Hebrew square script as painterly. It is also pen written--not brush
    like the Chinese--and very restrained and modular. \r\n\r\nArabic is also pen
    written, but it seems to be traditionally cursive and connected, unlike the traditional
    formal hands in the other scripts. I don't know much about Arabic, but it seems
    to have a richer tradition of artistically expressive calligraphy than any of
    these other scripts. As I understand, the prohibition against representational
    images in Islam pushed artistic expression into calligraphy. "
  created: '2008-06-09 16:04:32'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I agree with the cultural aspect. I agree with the modular and restrained.
    But does that make them Western as opposed to Eastern?Ultimately I see a disconnect
    in form, character and most importantly writing direction, which allies the Hebraic
    more with the East.\r\n\r\nJust want you to know William I sat up a good part
    of the night reflecting on this. I have no \"historical data\"... it is just a
    gut reaction. Pure and simple.\r\n\r\nFrom the calligraphers standpoint, if I
    were to do a Ketubah (sp?) I would have to do it upside down and backwards. That
    is why I said what I said... about the disconnect from the West. Maybe this is
    similar to our last discussion. I am coming at this from a practitioners point
    of view.\r\n\r\nNot getting contentious just trying to understand. Maybe since
    they, the forms are alien to me, I perceive them differently than you. They are
    a bit abstract, almost painterly to me. Maybe even pictographic.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Beloved_5039.jpg]\r\n\r\nThis
    to me is what I see. Even though colors cloud the issue, I see different directions
    and non similar forms, and even though they are thick and thin they are that in
    completely different ways.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-06-09 17:50:00'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Hey William\r\n\r\nHave you noticed that you have to scroll from left to
    right on these jpgs. \r\n\r\nAs Arsenio Hall used to say... Hmmmmmm!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-06-09 19:01:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Michael, just checking I see that while Hebrew and Arabic are written right
    to left, Indic languages are written left to right. So I don't see how you can
    call Arabic \"Eastern\" and then go farther East and have it become \"Western\"!\r\n\r\nI
    guess I just think it is simplistic to make a simple \"east-west\" divide on a
    lot of things. \"Eastern\" isn't one thing. \r\n\r\nOn the 'painterly' aspect
    of Hebrew vs Latin, I think you may see it this way because, I gather, you don't
    read Hebrew. When you start to see the letters as letters rather than designs
    they look less exotic. If you flip eg a bold seriffed letter upside down or mirrored,
    it also looks very exotic and strange.\r\n\r\nIn its origins, European society
    has dual Hellenistic and Hebraic origins. That we ended up with Latin letters
    is because Rome was the most successful at imperialism. But culturally Athens
    and Jerusalem are more important. That English is the international language is
    also because England was the most successful modern imperialist power. It was
    culturally important also, though, being the origin of liberal representative
    democracy as well. \r\n\r\nThe big divide today is the extent to which societies
    have embraced Enlightenment Europe: science, liberal democracy, and women's equality.
    \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2008-06-09 19:30:34'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Given the constraints others have mentioned, I wonder if a latin with a slight
    horizontal emphasis could work. What comes to mind immediately is the (awesome)
    work of Alejandro Lo Celso:\r\n\r\nI wonder if Quimera might work, especially
    since the latin is only for short bits:\r\nhttp://www.pampatype.com/php/2008/Especimen.php?&pag=pag_E_Quimera.html\r\n\r\nBorges
    also has strong horizontal movement:\r\nhttp://www.pampatype.com/php/2008/Especimen.php?&pag=pag_E_Borges.html\r\n\r\nAlso
    consider ITC Mendoza. Not so horizontal, but gut says it would work well with
    Hebrew.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-10 19:01:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Interesting idea, Randy. I generally don't like reversed contrast roman fonts,
    but it might work as a secondary roman to the Hebrew.  \r\n\r\nYet another path
    is to use relatively monoline fonts. I've used David, a Hebrew face by the aforementioned
    Ismar David, with Friz Quadrata. Both are relatively mono line and with small
    pointed serifs.\r\n\r\nOh and Michael, that quote from song of songs is really
    beautifully done.  "
  created: '2008-06-10 19:19:53'
- author:
    name: jacobh
  body: "I've read this thread with interest. I think one of the major problems with
    matching Hebrew to Latin is that the printed Hebrew script is far more similar
    to the calligraphic script used for writing religious texts than the Roman forms
    are to their to calligraphic equivalents. Essentially, we are trying to match
    a blackletter face with a Roman.\r\n\r\nMichael, have you had a look at traditional
    Hebrew calligraphy? As with the Latin scripts, there are a number of different
    forms, ranging from the [[http://www.templesanjose.org/JudaismInfo/writing/Calligraphy.htm||ornamented
    scripts]] used for writing religious texts, through less formal \"Rashi Scripts\",
    to the cursive script which most people use for writing (and which looks nothing
    like the printed forms) and other modern variants. The traditional formal scripts,
    in particular, are very much based on pen-craft and can't easily be realised in
    another way.\r\n\r\n-Jacob "
  created: '2008-06-10 21:57:17'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Bill -- I didn't see anything about the influence of Jenson; Image 1 is the
    \ scroll of Esther, written c.1800 -- that was the main influence:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Heb1_4681.jpg]\r\nImage
    2 -- early Hadassah; punches cut by Paul Koch (1939):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Heb2_5791.jpg]"
  created: '2008-06-10 22:09:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "David, I thought I read that he was influence by Jenson in [[http://oakknoll.com/detail.php?d_booknr=71692&d_currency=|The
    Book of Hebrew Script]] by Ada Yardeni. But I got it from a library, and my memory
    could be playing tricks on me. \r\n\r\n[[http://www.dartmouth.edu/~library/Library_Bulletin/Nov1991/LB-N91-Fontaine.html|Here
    in English]] is a fascinating account of the saga of the creation of Hadassah
    type face. It matches what you say about the influence of a manuscript of the
    scroll of Esther. \r\n\r\nIt also cast light on several issues mentioned here.
    \r\n\r\nFollowing what Michael has been saying, this account does say that \"He
    realized that Hebrew letters, unlike Roman letters, do not consist of any completely
    straight lines.\" However, this is not quite accurate. I just checked my \"HadasaMFO\"
    and it has straight and parallel *horizontal* lines, though not vertical ones.
    So I think that Michael's impression of Hebrew as more 'painterly' is because
    there is modulation in the Hebrew where an eye used to roman would see straight
    or nearly straight lines. But this is really a feature of the reversed contrast.
    In roman, much of the modulation is in horizontal strokes--the arches and serifs.
    Whereas in Hebrew more of it is vertical.   \r\n\r\nThis article also touches
    in the issue of whether Hebrew is inherently more calligraphic. As we've been
    discussing at length [[http://typophile.com/node/45708|in another thread]], Sumner
    Stone just wrote an article about roman type becoming less calligraphic with Jenson
    and Griffo. \r\n\r\nFriedlaender was quite aware of this basic history, as he
    studied with the great Rudolph Koch. And according to the story he deliberately
    set about to make his font more tyopgraphic, not calligraphic. (Also my memory
    of the influence of Jenson is plausible, given this story.) Personally, I think
    he was pretty successful. \r\n\r\nHe also rejected the early versions of the font,
    such as, presumably, the one in David's graphic.  \r\n\r\nThe story is one of
    the more dramatic ones in the history of type, as he buried his drawings in 1942
    and hid from the Nazis, emerged from the war alive in 1945 and dug them up. Then
    he was able in 1949 to convince the Lettergieterij Amsterdam to produce the type--I
    assume foundry type--and completed it while living in Israel. \r\n\r\nKinda make
    me feel small complaining about all those kerning pairs in digital type!  "
  created: '2008-06-11 00:48:59'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\"Sumner Stone just wrote an article about roman type becoming less calligraphic
    with Jenson and Griffo.\"\r\n\r\nWhoooooa! Did I in fact miss the point of the
    other thread???????????\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-06-11 02:45:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Pretty much :) \r\n\r\nStone: \"They [the letters of Jenson and Griffo] were
    products of a new kind of design process--typographic instead of scribal.\"\r\n\r\nFrom
    the article on Hadassah: \"The main problem, according to Friedlaender's research,
    was that the Hebrew alphabet never made an adequate transition from manuscript
    letter to typeface as had Roman letters.\"\r\n\r\nSo Friedlaender was aware of
    the key transition that Jenson and Griffo made, and wanted to do the same for
    Hebrew. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-11 04:03:38'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I am sorry but they were typographic interpretations of written letters.
    You disavowed pen manipulation and pressure/release techniques prior to the 15th
    century.\r\n\r\nAm I missing something?\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-06-11 04:12:04'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Following what Michael has been saying, this account does say that \u201CHe
    realized that Hebrew letters, unlike Roman letters, do not consist of any completely
    straight lines.\u201D \r\n\r\nThis is part b of the story; \r\n\r\n> Then he was
    able in 1949 to convince the Lettergieterij Amsterdam to produce the type\r\n\r\nThis
    is part a of the story.\r\n\r\n\r\nFriedlaender wasn't so happy with the results
    (part a, see image 1):\r\n\r\n\"The text face had turned out to be too dark; it
    appeared to be hardly lighter than the commonly used Frank-Ruhl type, and we had
    hoped to be able to get away from its blackness. The contrast in weight between
    the text and the bold faces had become minimal; the difference between these two
    versions had almost disappeared. The straight downstrokes still appeared inane
    and stiff, a shortcoming that would become intolerable in larger sizes.....\r\n\r\n\"The
    bold was now on the verge of looking spotty. Here the contrast between heavy and
    fine lines appeared even more exaggerated than in the text face. The stiffness
    of the downstrokes was even more disturbing....\r\n\r\n\"It  seemed inadvisable
    to try to correct the existing drawings. Instead, it was decided I should draw
    the whole set afresh with all the changes... [see image 2]  I detest the use of
    ruler and French curves when drawing letters. Besides, in contrast to the Roman
    alphabet, Hebrew has no system of straight lines, circles, or 90\xB0 angles. It
    rather is made up from a variety of almost  straight  elements, elliptical curves,
    and angles that cannot be related to any simple geometrical system.\"\r\n\r\n\r\nImage
    1 -- 1950:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Hads1_5021.jpg]\r\n\r\nImage
    2 -- 1958:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Hads2_5838.jpg]"
  created: '2008-06-11 04:14:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">they were typographic interpretations of written letters. \r\n\r\nThe question
    Stone was addressing is whether there was something conceptually new in the typographic
    interpretations of Jenson and Griffo, something that was distinctive to designing
    type as opposed to writing. He thinks there was. I agree. \r\n\r\nThat same novelty
    it seems is what Friedlaender was working on. His priority that the letters had
    to have the \"quality of transparency\" (in my link above), and his deep concern
    about \"color\" that David quotes both I think reflect the specifically typographic
    approach. \r\n\r\nRemember, the essay reports that Friedlaender believed that
    existing Hebrew faces hadn't introduced that key novelty of approach. That is
    Friedlaender--who had a scribal training also--and not me. \r\n\r\nMaybe there
    is no novelty of approach in type design by Jenson and Griffo, no difference from
    writing, but that evidently not the view of either Stone or of Friedlaender.  "
  created: '2008-06-11 05:02:37'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\"they (there, I think is what you were trying to say) was something conceptually
    new in the typographic interpretations, something that was distinctive to designing
    type as opposed to writing.\"\r\n\r\nYep. a lack of  understanding of bowl letters
    that was exhibited in the jpg's in the other thread! His forms were more old style
    than transitional (pen formed). Yet most of the other forms were transitional.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-06-11 05:50:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Michael, both old style and transitional roman are influenced by the pen,
    but different pens. The old style by the broad pen and the transitional by the
    pointed pen. Since \"transitional\" is over 200 years later than old style type,
    and is influenced by a later kind of pen,  it is anachronistic to talk of transitional
    features in Jenson and Griffo. It is historically more accurate, I think, to write
    of them, as Stone does, as influenced by the painted and inscribed Imperial Roman
    capitals. \r\n\r\nAs I said in the earlier thread, Jenson and Griffo make the
    diagonals lighter than a broad pen would, and this was for typographic reasons
    of even color. Here (see my link to the Cornell essay) Friedlaender was complaining
    about the aleph--with its heavy diagonal stroke--being too dark. If you compare
    the aleph in the manuscript that David posted with the final version of Hadassah
    that he posted, you will see that the diagonal has become even thinner than the
    horizontals, in contrast to the pen written starting point for his work. \r\n\r\nAgain,
    this is an effort to be specifically typographic. You seem to deny that such a
    thing exists, but I think that this story vividly shows that it does exist. As
    the Cornell link explains, Friedlaender did a study of historical styles of Hebrew
    script, identifying the different pens that influenced the different styles. And
    then though strongly influenced by the pen forms, in the end he did something
    that none of the pens would have done. \r\n\r\nThanks David for the fascinating
    illustrations. I feel like with the Cornell link and your further words and images
    of Friedlaender's story, I am starting to understand Hebrew type design a bit
    in this thread!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-11 15:52:14'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Thanks David for the fascinating illustrations...\r\n\r\nYou're welcome!\r\n\r\nAs
    Moshe Spitzer wrote: Henry Friedlaender's Hadassah has proved to be highly successful
    face, well designed in the Ashkenazic tradition and elaborated with much sophistication
    (1952, Alei Ayin).  "
  created: '2008-06-11 20:03:16'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Granted, your definition and my definition of Old Style and Transitional
    differ. I in fact think these are terms that are fairly new and confusing. I have
    consulted 4 books and it is like trying to get 4 economists to agree. Classifications
    are as varied as authors. But the pointed pen was never used to make transitional
    unless it was used as a drawing tool for outlines and then the letters were filled
    in.\r\n\r\nThe pointed pen is the originator of the Copperplate and Spencerian
    scripts and not the Roman form!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-06-11 20:50:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">But the pointed pen was never used to make transitional\r\n\r\nYeah, I tried
    to argue that the pointed pen was not so important to Baskerville until I was
    proven wrong, first by a bunch of illustrations from John Hudson and James Mosley,
    and then by my dipping a pointed pen in India ink and doing an \"n\"--and seeing
    the characteristic Baskerville arch emerge from the pen. Go about a third down
    [[http://typophile.com/node/37310|this thread]] and watch me crumble under the
    onslaught. You'll enjoy it :)   \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-11 22:02:22'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "I've always thought that Hebrew looked rather rigid and chunky, when copmared
    to other modern branches of the proto-semetic language like arabic, which has
    stunning calligraphy and beautiful form.\r\n\r\nHaving said that I wonder which
    would be wiser:\r\n\r\n1) To mirror the sturdiness of Hebrew's letterforms with
    a chunky thick slab-serifed typeface\r\n\r\n2) Or to contrast the solidity of
    the hebrew script with a fluid round text that has the retains the beauty of calligraphy
    and has both thicks and thins\r\n\r\nEither way, I'd love to see what you come
    up with!"
  created: '2008-06-12 16:21:54'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "David or William,\r\n\r\nYou better handle this one. I don't want to be the
    one that bursts his bubble.\r\n\r\nChunky huh?\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-06-12 20:47:11'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "\"Ki ka'asher\" (\u05DB\u05D9 \u05DB\u05D0\u05E9\u05E8) at the beginning
    of your translation isn't strictly wrong, but it is awkward."
  created: '2008-06-14 16:41:29'
date: '2008-06-08 20:57:25'
title: Latin typeface companion to Hadassah (Hebrew)

---
