---
author:
  name: Si_Daniels
  picture: 110446
body: "\r\n\"The easiest to read is the Arial (font)\"\r\n\r\nhttp://www.mlive.com/business/index.ssf/2008/06/study_by_university_of_michiga.html"
comments:
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: gag.
  created: '2008-06-11 04:19:12'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Actually the study, when it comes out, might be worth a read - if using hard-to-read
    fonts on menus really makes customers more willing to pay more for their food
    we'll all be in for a fun ride. ;-)
  created: '2008-06-11 04:30:28'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Maybe it's like the early days of medicine when a doctors would go from treating
    patients with horrid infectious diseases straight to delivering babies, until
    one day someone counted the bodies and said, \"say... Maybe hand washing business
    isn't such a daft idea after all.\" (first we go from terrible to mediocre, then
    it's all uphill from there.) ;o)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n -=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-06-11 05:02:02'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>If marketers want to give the impression that products - like the furniture
    in IKEA - is easier to assemble, then they'd want to make the font deeper and
    easier to read.</cite>\r\n\r\nHow do I make a font deeper? Read it Noam Chomsky
    and teach it to smoke clove cigarettes?"
  created: '2008-06-11 05:06:51'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "I read Chomsky and the American critic Roger Shattuck to my fonts. It seems
    to imbue them with a dash allure. I don't recommend the clove cigarettes tho,
    they will turn your fonts into hippies before you even know what's happened. Give
    them Cannabis Sativa man. The brilliant green adds a depth and shine so deep you
    can live your life in the reflection.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-06-11 07:15:22'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: <a href="http://www.somethingawful.com/fakesa/fontsite/">4:20 fonts</a> anyone?  ;-)
  created: '2008-06-11 07:16:48'
- author:
    name: Rafe Copeland
    picture: 114032
  body: "Oh look, I just invented typography! Put me on the internet!\r\n\r\nBut set
    it in dingbats so I look sophisticated.."
  created: '2008-06-11 08:22:36'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IKEA_job_3480.gif]'
  created: '2008-06-11 09:25:52'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: Actually, if the comparison was between Algerian, Linotext, and Arial, then
    it is true. Arial is the easiest to read.
  created: '2008-06-11 13:41:34'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Referring to Arial by name was a mistake, she probably meant Sans-Serif fonts
    are easier to ready and convey a more simplistic ideal for instructions. Where
    as serifed fonts probably give that sense of challenge and would be more suitable
    for menus.\r\n\r\nKinda makes sense. She's not a typographer she's a social researcher
    with marketing interests. She's not looking at the fonts for all their charm and
    quirk she's doing blanket surveys.\r\n\r\nAs a designer, it's our job to convey
    the information she's collecting and use that information to make better design
    choices. We all know Arial bits the big one, but we might not have known that
    a grotesque sans-serif conveys the idea that these instructions are better and
    easier to understand. "
  created: '2008-06-11 19:58:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\"Arial bits the big one\"\r\n\r\nIs this a comment on the bi-level hints?\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si"
  created: '2008-06-11 20:15:49'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: 'bites, I meant bites! '
  created: '2008-06-11 20:25:48'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "I posted a comment explaining the faulty presentation of that statement with
    no context, then their silly commenting system dropped an error and ate it.\r\n\r\nFeh.\r\n\r\nI
    guess I can look forward to having this forwarded to me by a sadly mis-informed
    client sometime in the future..."
  created: '2008-06-12 17:24:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I think the researcher should be invited to TypeCon.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2008-06-12 17:35:28'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I guess I can look forward to having this forwarded to me by a sadly
    mis-informed client sometime in the future...</cite>\r\n\r\nReason 101 that I\u2019m
    thinking about giving up on graphic design and going to work at a PR firm."
  created: '2008-06-12 17:43:15'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: '"This study PROVES that Arial is the easiest to read! Here, read it! Now
    please set the entire book in Arial. Let''s not waste any more time on this."'
  created: '2008-06-12 23:43:01'
- author:
    name: victor ivanov
    picture: 111726
  body: research funded by microsoft perhaps?
  created: '2008-06-13 01:59:20'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I can''t rule it out, but this wasn''t funded by the MS typography groups.
    That should be obvious as there''s no mention of ClearType TM, and Arial was "retired"
    a year and a half ago. ;-) '
  created: '2008-06-13 02:45:46'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "\u201C This study PROVES that Arial is the easiest to read! \". <a href=\"http://www.photoblog.com/storage001/2008/06/11/\">Just
    a try with it.</a>"
  created: '2008-06-13 13:43:06'
- author:
    name: David Sudweeks
    picture: 112594
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fontdeeper_6115.jpg]'
  created: '2008-06-13 18:50:17'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I think the researcher should be invited to TypeCon.\"\r\n\r\nCan she juggle
    pictures of kittens and/or bait 'n switch an audience like Kevin? \r\nOtherwise,
    as I said at TypoBerlin, the only difference between these studies (MS, UM and
    Clearview), and a bucket of... s**t, is the bucket, (unless it also has a handle).\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-06-15 14:44:21'
- author:
    name: pidgin
    picture: 113402
  body: 'I welcome the news that Arial is the easiest to read: at my old university,
    they used to print everything in Comic Sans, "because it''s the easiest to read".
    Well, Arial''d be a step in the right direction!'
  created: '2008-06-15 15:54:38'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Otherwise, as I said at TypoBerlin, the only difference between these studies
    \r\n\r\nSo, are you saying all research is a waste of time, or that studies financed
    by an interested party (Microsoft, Terminal etc.,) are going to be biased?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-15 16:35:05'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I was wondering that as well. Just because DB's comment is witty doesn't
    make it true. (Doesn't make it false, either.) On what grounds do you dismiss
    all these different studies?\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-08-04 04:35:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.collingwoodelvisfestival.com/\">Elvis</a> is easiest
    to imitate.\r\n(No studies on this yet, just a hunch.)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-04 06:22:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"So, are you saying all research is a waste of time\"\r\nI was specific.\r\n\r\n\"On
    what grounds do you dismiss all these different studies?\"\r\nA plague of all.\r\n\r\nI
    get samples used in studies, when I can (ahem). If I can't get samples, I decide
    right there.\r\n\r\nHave either of you (Sii or Thomas), studied any of these studies
    down to the exact type used to reach the results? Just curiouser.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-04 13:13:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Have either of you (Sii or Thomas), studied any of these studies down to
    the exact type used to reach the results? Just curiouser.\r\n\r\nTake Clearview
    for example. I've seen the pics. They seem to have constructed actual road signs
    using the fonts and actual reflective material used in real signs, and James,
    the actual type designer was involved. What was wrong with the \"exact type\"
    in that study?"
  created: '2008-08-04 16:02:29'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Take Clearview for example\u2026What was wrong with the \u201Cexact
    type\u201D in that study?</cite>\r\n\r\nSeconded. The Clearview studies were hardly
    the kind of silly stuff that\u2019s been done by some of the psychologists out
    there\u2014what\u2019s wrong with them?\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-04 16:51:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Their specificity.\r\nReadability studies only have validity within narrow
    bounds.\r\nClearview: great read for road signs, but how good for print text?\r\nSo
    to say that a particular typeface is \"easiest to read\" as a blanket statement
    is just plain stupid.\r\n\r\nFor real typographers, \"Easiest to read?\" is not
    even a question.\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-04 17:53:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">For real typographers, \u201CEasiest to read?\u201D is not even a question.\r\n\r\nI
    don't agree. It's a good question, but it probably has different answers in different
    contexts. You can define these contexts with enough clarity--road signs for fast
    driving, reading a printed book, reading text on screen--to seek meaningful answers.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-04 18:17:38'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">For real typographers, \u201CEasiest to read?\u201D is not even a question.
    \r\n\r\nNot sure I understand the criticism. The studies David is claiming are
    a bucket of shit (sans handle) don't ask that question. Ms Song's study apparently
    doesn't either. From the ATypI thread Tom Phinney wrote...\r\n\r\n\"Yes, they
    found that Arial was more readable than Mistral or Brush Script, but the point
    was *not* to find the most readable font possible.\"\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2008-08-04 18:47:26'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Nick, Bill, you are not really disagreeing. I agree too with what Nick said
    \"Readability studies only have validity within narrow bounds.\" It might be that
    broader finding could be made with enough highly specific research done. But we
    are no where near that point yet. One of the reasons broad theories in science
    are so celebrated is that they are rarely defendable. hey are very much the exception
    not the rule. So going on that I suspect that any research done will show over
    & over that what's needed for best readability in a given situation is specific
    to that situation. Which of course flows neatly with the experience of type designers.\r\n\r\nI
    did miss the kittens this year. \r\n"
  created: '2008-08-04 18:51:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Eben, you may be right, but my impression is that I go further than Nick
    in thinking that greater and lesser readability of text will be one day measurable.
    \r\n\r\nBy the way, all scientific theories are universal in logical form. In
    that sense, broad theories are not the exception, but the rule in science. It
    is true that many theories are qualified to apply to elastic objects, or liquids,
    etc., but that is a different matter. I agree with you that general theories are
    harder to come by, and more precious when we have them.  "
  created: '2008-08-04 19:28:02'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "You guys are just too funny - the tears are rolling down my eyes.\r\n\r\nWhat
    ever happened to the designers? You know, the ones who actually took their time
    to learn about type and understand the concept of when to use display, script,
    san serif, serif, roman, gothic, fancy, and on and on and on...\r\n\r\nAnd last
    time I check the IKEA catalog - is was in Helvetica. So does that mean that Arial
    is \"deeper\" than Helvetica? LOL\r\n\r\nI'm making my seat now...."
  created: '2008-08-04 19:41:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...will be one day [be] measurable...</em>\r\n\r\nScience can't predict
    culture, because it's the business of culture to be dynamic and unpredictable,
    confounding analysis.\r\nScientific method was first applied to advertising in
    the early 20th century (Starch, etc.), but it hasn't gotten any further traction
    than market research. There you have the tension between reason and intuition.
    \r\n\r\nIf it's assumed that someone is going to read the text, then going by
    the numbers may seem useful. Meanwhile, the reader has caught sight of a page
    of text and the conditioned response is, \"am I going to even bother reading this
    shit?\" (sorry, it's <em>le mot du jour</em>).  "
  created: '2008-08-04 19:55:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Nick, I think that readability is part of what makes a text inviting, so
    it isn''t a completely separate issue. Certainly there is a lot more to attracting
    a reader, and the design can contribute (or detract) greatly from whether people
    want to read something. Also of course how well written the stuff is makes a big
    difference as to whether they continue reading, once they start.  '
  created: '2008-08-04 20:08:42'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">And last time I check the IKEA catalog - is was in Helvetica.\r\n\r\nYou're
    joking right? They use Ikea Sans a Futura derivative. ;-)"
  created: '2008-08-04 20:18:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: And Century Schoolbook?
  created: '2008-08-04 20:47:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...readability is part of what makes a text inviting, so it isn\u2019t
    a completely separate issue.</em>\r\n\r\nExactly. But why are you assuming that
    it's only readability if it can be measured?\r\n\r\nThe readability of a document
    is dependent on many factors, mostly typographic (those that Jackie mentions),
    i.e. governed by the layout, not the typeface. In fact, the typography determines
    the readability of the text to such an extent that it can easily reverse the relative
    readability of fonts, as measured in the lab. "
  created: '2008-08-04 20:57:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I don't assume that anything exists only if it can be measured. That's a
    version of positivism, and I don't share it. If one were measuring readability
    of extended text, things like measure, typeface and leading would have to be included.
    I agree with you that these will prove important. But so will type design and
    letter spacing, IMHO. \r\n\r\n\"as measured in the lab\". Only some comparative
    tests have been done. I don't think there is as yet any real common measure of
    readability. "
  created: '2008-08-04 22:30:26'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Ah, studies\u2026 So called scientists doing what they have to do (publsih
    or be damned) \u2014 studies can deliver any answer needed. Or not. Studies have
    revealed a strong correllation of the birth rate and the presence of storks  (Sweden),
    the fact that almost 100% of all murderers drank milk while young (makes you wonder!),
    and that smoking is not unhealthy (sponsored by a certain industry).\r\n\r\nNever
    trust studies \u2014 think for yourself.\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-08-05 08:21:53'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Legalize Readability !
  created: '2008-08-05 12:00:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">the fact that almost 100% of all murderers drank milk while young\r\n\r\nThat
    correlations are not proof of causality is in every text on the subject. Such
    conclusions are not accepted scientific method.\r\n\r\n>So called scientists doing
    what they have to do (publsih or be damned)...Never trust studies \u2014 think
    for yourself.\r\n\r\nOf course we should look at studies critically, but your
    post seems to indicate we should ignore all scientific research, because it is
    all corrupt. Is that what you are advocating?\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-05 14:44:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The credibility of the scientific method is damaged by typographic studies
    which produce results that ignore reality. Cultural, social, business, professional
    reality, that is, not reality as constructed in a laboratory.\r\nWhen Arial is
    widely regarded as a 2nd-rate clone by professional typographers, who is going
    to take seriously a study which touts its readability? The marketing boffins who
    oversaw this project at Michigan should have been a little more circumspect about
    what they were getting into if they want to sell the relevance of their study.
    With a modicum of marketing savvy, or awareness of the culture of their subject,
    they would have hitched their research to the Helvetica bandwagon."
  created: '2008-08-05 15:30:08'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"What was wrong with the \u201Cexact type\u201D in [the ClearView] study?\"\r\nThe
    last time I asked, economics prevented anything but the most basic possible test
    of a single, basically handmade composition from a prototype font. A small group
    of drivers were then driven around the signs (the 'control of which was a particularly
    beat-up old Highway Gothic of PA), in a limited number, maybe even two conditions
    of light and weather, and asked questions. Does a huge x-ht help in all conditions?
    Is the tailed l always right in distant word shapes? Can and how will composers
    deal with an un-unitized product after all these years? Does Clearview actually
    work in all the layouts required with all the changes from Highway Gothic? \r\n\r\nSure
    something's been studied, but without having ever done anything even remotely
    similar to this, what makes you think either the studiers or the studyees were
    even on the right road, much less properly addressing fundamental issues of implementation?
    I take it then you agree on the MS studies.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-05 16:16:31'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I don\u2019t know. This just doesn\u2019t seem constructive. I mean going
    to a designer/Mac-love-fest in Germany and criticizing Microsoft and the US Department
    of Transportation... Kind of like shooting fish in a barrel or wearing a Che Guevara
    t-shirt on a Cuban vacation. Is this what \u201Cconferencing\u201D is all about?"
  created: '2008-08-05 16:43:09'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Thanks to Thomas for finding the actual study report. Unfortunately the popular
    press report missed the point of the study. Here is my summary:\r\n\r\nIn their
    first study the participants read instructions about an exercise program. The
    instructions were either written in an easy to read font (Arial 12) or a difficult
    to read font (Brush 12). The participants who read the instructions in the easy
    to read font reported that the exercise program would take less time and they
    would be more likely to take part in the program than the participants who read
    the instructions in the difficult to read font.\r\n\r\nIn their second study the
    participants read instructions about how to prepare a Japanese roll. The instructions
    were either written in an easy to read font (Arial 12) or a difficult to read
    font (Mistral 12). The participants who read the instructions in the easy to read
    font reported that the recipe would take less time to prepare and they would be
    more likely to try it than the participants who read the instructions in the difficult
    to read font.\r\n\r\nhttp://sitemaker.umich.edu/norbert.schwarz/files/08_song___schwarz_effort_psychscie_in-press_30apr08.pdf\r\n\r\nTo
    me this is a perfectly reasonable demonstration that typeface selection is important.
    There isn\u2019t anything to feel threatened by here.\r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-05 17:07:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...typeface selection is important....</em>\r\n\r\nThanks Kevin, that's
    good to know."
  created: '2008-08-05 17:33:46'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "<em>Elvis is easiest to imitate.</em>\r\n\r\nBad journalism is easier to
    imitate.\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-05 19:27:55'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"... criticizing Microsoft and the US Department of Transportation... \"\r\nI
    don't criticize DOT(s), I use them too effectively \r\n\"This just doesn\u2019t
    seem constructive.\"\r\nThen give it a rest, I'll take it from here. \r\n\"Is
    this what \u201Cconferencing\u201D is all about?\"\r\nNot as far as I can tell.
    Most people seem to  just want a \"get away\" to somewhere they can drink beer
    with fresh, like-minded beer drinkers, unless of course it is coffee time.\r\n\r\nWhich
    of the Microsoft type studies do you rank as the absolute 'top of the class'?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-06 11:44:59'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Does anybody actually *READ* these studies before criticizing them at great
    length based on bizarre snippets of media coverage? Have none of you been misquoted
    or had the media quote you oddly out of context?\r\n\r\nTo repeat what I posted
    on the ATypI list, with a couple of minor edits for clarity:\r\n\r\nIt turns out
    the actual studies (there were three related studies) are posted here:\r\nhttp://sitemaker.umich.edu/norbert.schwarz/files/08_song___schwarz_effort_psychscie_in-press_30apr08.pdf\r\n\r\nThe
    first study compared just Arial and Brush Script, used in restaurant menus. The
    second and third compared Arial and Mistral, used in recipes. \r\n\r\nYes, they
    found that Arial was more readable than Mistral or Brush Script, but the point
    was *not* to find the most readable font possible. They were trying to manipulate
    the readability as an independent variable, by using the font. That is, they needed
    a more readable font and a less readable font, in each study. The dependent variables
    were the conclusions people would draw about the content being changed by the
    ease of reading.\r\n\r\nSo, unless you think Mistral and/or Brush Script are in
    fact more readable than Arial, folks should not have problems with this study
    based on their beliefs about the legibility of different typefaces.\r\n\r\nHaving
    read the paper, I am reasonably convinced that they succeeded in measuring what
    they wanted to measure. The results of the first study would have been of dubious
    by itself, as one could argue that there were other plausible causes for the experimental
    outcome, which would be a result of the font but not based on simple difficulty
    of reading. But the second and third studies lead to a reasonably strong conclusion
    that their theory is correct.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-08-07 03:15:01'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Does anybody actually *READ* these studies before criticizing them at great
    length based on bizarre snippets of media coverage?\"\r\n\r\nOf Course. Do you?\r\n\r\nKL:
    \"...typeface selection is important....\r\nNS: Thanks Kevin, that\u2019s good
    to know.\"\r\n\r\nBut it's not. Typeface selection is obviously an important subset
    of font specification but in this context can not be studied by itself toward
    any important goal. I could change one variable, (the sizes), and prove the Selection
    of Mistral over Arial. (I could also quite likely upset the results with exactly
    the same specimens they used.... by collecting a different extraordinarily small
    and narrowly aged audience!? \r\n\r\nAn upfront judgement of  'hard to read\"
    and \"easy to read\" was made, framed as a test, the results presented, and those
    who did the study proved that they could be slapped on the back by the subjects,
    for a well-done upfront judgement of  'hard to read\" and \"easy to read\". This
    study does not accomplish: more than proof of the (apparently not) obvious, or
    the education of those who study.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-07 19:12:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>But it\u2019s not.</em>\r\n\r\nYou don't say.\r\n\r\n<em>unless you think
    Mistral and/or Brush Script are in fact more readable than Arial,</em>\r\n\r\nWhat
    David said.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-07 20:11:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "David, I haven't read the full studies on Clearview, but in the New York
    Times article they mention that they drove people toward the different signs in
    daylight and at night with headlights and noted at what distance they could read
    the names on the signs. And there were quite significant differences in the distances.
    \ \r\n\r\nI think I remember reading some report summaries also to this effect,
    but I don't have the links at the moment. \r\n\r\nThis kind of test seems pretty
    good to me, if carried out with proper controls.  "
  created: '2008-08-07 20:28:01'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Actually, DB's comment is pretty meaningless.\r\n\r\nThe study was not trying
    to show that Arial was universally easier to read than (whichever script font).
    Just to study the effects of varying the ease of reading.\r\n\r\nIt's utterly
    irrelevant to these studies if one could vary other controlled variables, to make
    the script faces harder to read than the Arial. The question is, were they correct
    in their claim that under these particular conditions, Arial was easier to read?
    Their study seemed to show that was true, as a preparatory point towards looking
    at the effects of this.\r\n\r\nNow, there are other points of these studies worth
    critiquing. Could all the effects of the study been the effects of a more ornate/fancy
    typeface rather than ease of reading per se? If their conclusions were correct,
    one could repeat the study by using *only* Arial, and creating the \"harder to
    read\" condition by setting Arial at 6 or 7 point.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-08-07 21:56:55'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Actually, DB\u2019s comment is pretty meaningless.\r\n\r\nIt pains me to
    see the help be rude to Berlow when he is the only person of real distinction
    in the type industry who contributes to Typophile. I'm a very rude person but
    I would never dare be rude to David. Admittedly he can be difficult to understand,
    but what sage isn't? Like many, every sentence he writes has got a whole paragraph,
    a whole page, a whole book behind it.\r\n\r\nAs far as I know, there has never
    in the entire history of type been a legibility study that would stand up to scientific
    scrutiny. The reason is that legibility problems have always been satisfactorily
    solved by people like Benton, Griffith, Carter, and Berlow."
  created: '2008-08-07 22:44:25'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "<em>Which of the Microsoft type studies do you rank as the absolute \u2019top
    of the class\u2019?</em>\r\nI\u2019ll defend all of them if you\u2019ll read them
    first.\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>I could change one variable, (the sizes), and prove the
    Selection of Mistral over Arial. (I could also quite likely upset the results
    with exactly the same specimens they used.... by collecting a different extraordinarily
    small and narrowly aged audience!?</em>\r\n\r\nFirst, Thomas\u2019 comments are
    spot on that this is completely irrelevant to the point of Song & Schwarz's study.
    They were demonstrating that the perception of the font impacted the perception
    of the content. The specific fonts involved did not matter.\r\n\r\nSecond, you
    misunderstand how the scientific method works. Say for example that you\u2019re
    right and you can change Mistral in some way, and you find that people thought
    that the exercise program would take less time. Does that invalidate the results?
    No. It extends the results and is exactly what should happen. Is there some narrowly
    aged audience that responds in a different way? That would be interesting to know
    too. That\u2019s another extension.\r\n\r\nSong & Schwarz tested a theory and
    learned something about how readers respond under the specific conditions they
    defined. There is always more to be learned, and by writing a report about what
    they learned, they invited others to participate in the process. Everyone (including
    DB) is now welcome to run their own studies with 30 point Mistral on 14 year olds
    to better understand the reading experience.\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-08 00:28:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Bill, is it really required that you refer to somebody as the \"help\"? To
    me this denigrates whatever points you make afterwards. \r\n\r\nI make this point
    for a variety of reasons but the most important one is this: when a 3rd party
    has wades through Typophile discussions in search of an answer to a question they
    are interested in, or perhaps who thinks what on whatever topic, there ends up
    being a lot of chaff with the wheat when personal stuff is involved. Some of that
    is inevitable. But a lot of it isn't. I would sooner see Typophile be a more rather
    than less useful for us all. \r\n\r\nAnd really it would be good if we all kept
    that in mind - not just Bill.\r\n\r\nThanks!"
  created: '2008-08-08 00:35:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Say for example that you\u2019re right and you can change Mistral in
    some way, and you find that people thought that the exercise program would take
    less time. Does that invalidate the results?</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps not, but it would
    still be a meaningless experiment.\r\n\r\nThis is a mistaken project from the
    get-go, designed to answer the question \"if we make something hard to read, will
    people think it describes something that's hard to do?\" But the actual test measures
    nothing of the sort.\r\n\r\nWhat if ease of \"legibility\" or \"readability\"
    has nothing to do with this? What if there is some other visual cue in typeface
    selection, such as, oh, I don't know, something a typographer might think of?
    Might it not be that a large x-height sans serif face communicates \"efficiency\",
    while a script type says \"slow down and smell the roses\"? What have these typographic
    qualities got to do with the \"ease with which...information can be processed\"?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-08 03:51:53'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I\u2019ll defend all of them if you\u2019ll read them first.\r\nI read
    plenty, but it's no longer on my agenda. With MS spending $1/2 billion to re-market
    Vista, I know.\r\n\r\n\"They were demonstrating that the perception of the font
    impacted the perception of the content. \"\r\nThe perception of a child's <em>font
    specification</em> impacted the perception of the content to children.\r\n\r\n\"Actually,
    DB\u2019s comment is pretty meaningless.\"\r\nAll of what you say goes on to more
    type specification, not selection. One is a subset of the other, and you cannot
    make a meaningful decision on style, without making a decision on size, (at LEAST).
    \r\n\r\nThis study made no meaningful contribution to what I know about type specification
    or selection. That being the case, I assure you anyone who learned from this is
    learning in the rong direction.  Nothing personal, my mom went to Michigan, and
    I drew MS's Mistral. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-08-08 12:50:11'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "<em>Might it not be that a large x-height sans serif face communicates \u201Cefficiency\u201D,
    while a script type says \u201Cslow down and smell the roses\u201D?</em>\r\n\r\nExcellent,
    that\u2019s another possible direction to extend these results. Thomas suggested
    comparing different sizes of Arial; or you could make two matching fonts that
    only differed in x-height. Either would be a way of looking at size differences
    without differences in type style. This extension does not make the original study
    mistaken or invalid in any way. If the extension provides a better interpretation
    of the results, people will adopt the better interpretation.\r\n\r\n<em>This study
    made no meaningful contribution to what I know about type specification or selection.</em>\r\n\r\nGood,
    because this study was not about type specification or selection. This was about
    demonstrating that the perception of fonts impact the perception of content. I
    did find it surprising and interesting that people thought the same exercise program
    would be easier when they read about it Arial. Imagine that former Bush administration
    official is writing an autobiography and they want to appear more sympathetic
    and likable. Can a particular font choice help?\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-08 18:47:01'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "What clearly dissatisfies some of us is how incremental and simple the results
    of these tests can be. We know the result before it's revealed. But there also
    seem to be a number of tests with flawed questions at their root, such as \"is
    my new font, designed specially for the blind, that I'm getting school credit
    for, more readable than an intricate, curlicued display font?\" The result might
    have integrity (why yes, this simple font based on Comic Sans is more readable
    than that scratchy, ambiguous display font), but the test itself doesn't; it's
    a foregone conclusion, and the design of the test is manipulated to give the desired
    result. Those tests are specious because they aren't objective, <strong>and</strong>
    they ask irrelevant questions. \r\n\r\nHowever, Nick and David, while I know what
    you know, and we know it, and it apparently is going to take until 2168 to accumulate
    enough empiric data to confirm it scientifically, what Kevin has said holds true:
    if an experiment asks a very simple question, and I'm sure you'll agree it's difficult
    to design these tests, we can actually get meaningful results. But the meaning
    and the import of the results is likely to be much more satisfying and consequential
    to someone who doesn't design type all day. It doesn't make the test false, or
    the question wrong, or the whole thing a load of poppycock, if we find the result
    boring or predictable. \r\n\r\nKevin is not disputing that it may be more interesting
    or revealing if we test other variables, like size and contrast and all the niceties
    that go into reading. But we're throwing the baby out with the bathwater if we
    dismiss every finding because it isn't sophisticated enough for us. Once a number
    of these results are assembled, a more nuanced and specific test can be designed
    that includes those parameters and takes into account the results already discovered.
    That's the scientific method. Reading is very complicated, and so many factors
    affect it, that of course it will take a long time for all those variables to
    be understood. Each one has to be isolated in a large testing situation and clear
    differences have to be demonstrated. Then there are the thousands of typefaces,
    the choice of which inevitably rubs people the wrong way. \r\n\r\nKevin, I think
    what is dissatisfying, over and above the slow, rudimentary progress in this area,
    is that here on Typophile, where type designers hang out, we often hear of these
    tests and ask, \"Why didn't they consult a typographer or type designer?\" Whether
    the testing is flawed or fierce, We hear about it after the fact. We can actually
    effect more speedy, substantial progress in this area if we are included in the
    process of designing these studies, but apparently we're invisible. "
  created: '2008-08-08 19:50:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Can a particular font choice help?</em>\r\n\r\nThis is the kind of thing
    that graphic designers do for a living.\r\nI'm shocked you have been working closely
    with type for several years and have no idea how it is used professionally."
  created: '2008-08-08 19:59:01'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"This was about demonstrating that the perception of fonts impact the perception
    of content.\"\r\nOkay... name me the variables of how fonts impact the perception
    of content Kevlar. \r\n\r\nYou're seeing a demonstration that the use of bad selection
    and bad composition impacts the perception of content. The other comments that
    are made in the linked story, reinforce the bad turns/learns of this study. \r\n\r\nProper
    scientific method in type design, <em>gives you selection</em>, it's 'our' job
    to understand (and design) all the details involved in a careful dance with perception
    of content, including some that the guys and gals in the Michigan Business School
    might overlook from simple, honest, ignorance, <strong>an excuse not available
    to professionals in the type business, <em>I'm afraid</strong></em>.\r\n\r\nThe
    type design method for developing the study we're discussing would be:\r\n1. Compare
    Arian to Arial at the same size from the same device on the same paper. Skip the
    expected 50-50 results and change something.\r\n2. Compare Arial to Mistral. Okay,
    you've made your one mistake, Arial has an inbred familiarity and Mistral not
    so much and definitely not for the desired perception of simplicity required of
    instructions for cooking or Ikea.  If you make the mistake of not evening the
    x-heights, you are no longer testing perception of content. Period.\r\n3. If you
    even out the x-heights, both fonts are legible, and you get correct results, (probably
    70-30), and you learn\r\n\r\nFont selection impacts the perception of content,
    but if your composition has removed legibility. . . don't bother me with insisting
    on correctly testing perception of content.\r\n\r\nWhen one says something like
    this:\r\n\"The easiest to read is the Arial (font),\" Song said.\r\n...think on
    that: based on two fonts, and 25 or so late-teenage reactions, sound like type
    science to you? \r\nI said before they learned nothing, what I should have said
    is they learned how to get attention at the expense of type and science in one
    swell foop.\r\n\r\nCheers! \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-08 20:54:11'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "<em>Kevin, I think what is dissatisfying, over and above the slow, rudimentary
    progress in this area, is that here on Typophile, where type designers hang out,
    we often hear of these tests and ask, \u201CWhy didn\u2019t they consult a typographer
    or type designer?\u201D Whether the testing is flawed or fierce, We hear about
    it after the fact. We can actually effect more speedy, substantial progress in
    this area if we are included in the process of designing these studies, but apparently
    we\u2019re invisible.</em>\r\n\r\nI agree that this is a problem. Obviously whenever
    I talk to psychologists or anyone interested in studying typographic variables,
    I do my best to educate them about the field of typography and to get them to
    meet and talk to the typographers here (Mike Duggan and Geraldine Wade). But that
    is an incredibly small percentage of reading psychologists. Somehow we really
    need to get to a state where typographers and reading psychologists interact more
    frequently. Any ideas about how to make the field of typography less invisible?\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-08 22:39:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "There's not much that will take the blinkers off the way scientists approach
    this subject.\r\nIdeally, reading psychologists could learn typography.\r\nHave
    you considered taking a degree in design?\r\nThat would add an edge to your work,
    and set an example to your peers."
  created: '2008-08-08 23:50:47'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: Legibility problems are solved not by scientists, and certainly not by pseudo-scientists,
    but by a few genius type people who discover ways to put more words on less paper
    and still have most of us be able to read the stuff without noticing it. In the
    entire 20th century there were four or five such people, and that was enough.
    Who, now living, other than Berlow and Carter, has proven achievements in this
    field? And I'm sure Berlow would agree that Carter's grip on the mass vernacular
    is unrivalled. A font constructed by scientists for legibility would be one nobody
    would want to read. Legibility can't be separated from a panoply of factors of
    which style is not the least. To analyze this satisfactorily would cost a big
    chunk of the billion MS is investing in the Vista relaunching. Nobody's going
    to spend this because Carter and Berlow can be had for less.
  created: '2008-08-09 00:34:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, enough already with the Great Man theories.\r\nNobody hits a home run
    every time they come to the plate."
  created: '2008-08-09 01:30:40'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "<em>This is the kind of thing that graphic designers do for a living.\r\nI\u2019m
    shocked you have been working closely with type for several years and have no
    idea how it is used professionally.</em>\r\n\r\nImagine if you will that Dick
    Cheney is writing his autobiography, and he wants to appear as a likeable and
    sympathetic individual. Certainly he\u2019s writing about all the good deeds he\u2019s
    done in his life, like all the times he didn\u2019t shoot someone in the face.
    When people are done reading his book, someone will go around asking the readers
    how sympathetic they are towards Dick Cheney.\r\n\r\nWhat specifically can be
    done with typography to make it so that more people are sympathetic towards him?\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-09 01:48:02'
- author:
    name: tearsforsappho
    picture: 115158
  body: "<cite>What specifically can be done with typography to make it so that more
    people are sympathetic towards him?</cite>\r\n\r\nEducate the people that use
    it for a living.  I am a graphic designer, and I will be the first to tell you
    that unless you have an honest interest in it, there isnt much obvious incentive
    to John Q Designer to learn.  Personally, I am interested, and I strive to learn
    as much as I can to be a better typographer and in turn a better designer.  Unfortunately,
    most designers coming out of school dont know the difference between Arial and
    Helvetica.  You have no idea how many people I have worked with in my relatively
    short career who dont have the slightest clue what everyday glossary terms mean,
    like \"kern\", \"x-height\" and \"ligature\".\r\n\r\nLast year, we had a (short-lived)
    designer who thought it was appropriate to use \"Will & Grace\" for everything.
    \ Go ahead, say he was an idiot, we all think so.  After he was let go, he got
    a job at MTV.\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-09 02:01:25'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> enough already with the Great Man theories </cite>\r\nI can't agree
    more. That they are great men I don't disagree about however. Different idea entirely!
    \r\n\r\nBill, the idea that scientists *want* to design a typeface is apocryphal.
    What they might do if we don't all scare them off is help us look into discrete
    issues one by one, with our help. I hope so anyway. Eventually I would like to
    see some testing to see if CALTs can help immersive reading. But before that can
    happen there are many other things that need to be tested so that protocols that
    we all* agree on can be in place. What DB is talking about is a good step. What
    I am not sure about is if like Nick, DB would prefer that science keep it's slimy
    finger out on principle or if he would like to see science done as long as it
    was grounded properly. What say you DB?\r\n\r\n* or enough of all of us...\r\n\r\nNick,
    for all I know Kevin has a degree in type design or Graphic design or some such
    thing. Have you read his CV? But even if he hasn't I have to take issue with the
    idea that that is the only measure. If Kevin gets it he does. Plenty of people
    with degrees don't...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-09 02:05:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>What specifically can be done with typography to make it so that more
    people are sympathetic towards him?</em>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Rumsfeld_6643.jpg]\r\nSomething
    like this, with gold embossing, captured the tone of a book one reviewer described
    as a \"doting paean\".\r\nOr maybe that's where the reviewer got the idea.\r\n\r\nIn
    a book trashing the same subject, pretty much the same Garalde:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Rumsfeld2_6122.jpg]\r\nIn
    fact, Garamond/Bembo seems to be some sort of Rumsfeld brand.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Rumsfeld3_5736.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nIn
    the realm of affect, typeface choice is an artful business. \r\nNot a direct correspondence,
    \"push typeface x to activate emotion y in citizen z\", but combining a typeface,
    with a picture, in a layout, with a type treatment, to create an overall impression.
    \ \r\n\r\n<em>\"...the perception of fonts impact[s] the perception of content\"</em>\r\n\r\nAs
    taught in first year Graphic Design. Spiekermann & Ginger's <em>Stop Stealing
    Sheep & find out how type works</em> covers the same ground.\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-09 06:52:30'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Nick, this is an astonishing collection, I had no idea these books were being
    designed, or even written. I looked up the 2003(?) 'Pieces of Intelligence' and
    discovered to my surprise that its Amazon sales rank is appx 550,000. For control,
    I looked up my own 1998 'Film Developing Cookbook' which is years out of date
    and which I happen to know is only selling the merest trickle of 25-50 copies
    per month: its rank is appx 80,000. And it has a very ugly cover. If I think about
    the ultimate meaning of graphic design and type design and legibility design,
    I cannot avoid the weakly Marxist mindset that we are all the servants of economic
    or political lords who use us to maintain or increase their power. We, the servants
    (ich bin ein Diener, to echo Kafka) are a jolly people who seldom squabble except
    in places like Typophile, which is effectively our pub. The problem with the well-intentioned
    (well-intentioned, that is, if you are in the business of selling type) Stop Stealing
    Sheep is that layout -- as I think Berlow has hinted here -- is always more important
    than type itself. You could, in the end, achieve almost anything (effect or affect)
    with Times and Helvetica if you had to. You wouldn't want to. But a good layout
    person could. I wonder if Lissitzky was a nice guy? Ginger's business card, by
    the way, was set in metal Spectrum and contains a witty, lewd drawing of a Ginger-denominated
    'girl editor'. I wish I had it handy to scan. It's by far the most artful business
    card I have ever seen.\r\n\r\nEben, how can CALT help immersive reading when it
    primarily seems to be used as a tool to justify poor reading ability in the US
    and UK at the very least? To what extent does the collapse of effective pedagogy
    represent the political will of these nations? "
  created: '2008-08-09 12:55:26'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Nick, if the title and content for those three books were the same, which
    would leave the readers most sympathetic towards Rumsfeld? The first one has the
    most sympathetic picture, but I don\u2019t find the title typography to be sympathetic.\r\n\r\nSong
    & Schwarz\u2019s study investigated body text. What can be done with the body
    text so people will report Rumsfeld as more sympathetic?\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-09 16:04:04'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">What can be done with the body text so people will report Rumsfeld as more
    sympathetic?\r\n\r\nSouvenir, Baby! Souvenir all the way! Despite its repugnance
    to typographers on grounds of taste, it's an incredibly well-designed typeface.
    Second choice, ITC Garamond MM, using an intermediate weight so you can get some
    meat on the text. ITC really had a feel for friendly. I don't believe it has been
    surpassed because few of us are willing to do anything so cringe-making. But they
    knew what they were doing - - \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-09 16:35:42'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">but that perception does not necessarily reflect readability of extended
    text as far as ease, speed and comprehension. \r\n\r\nExactly, William. These
    people don't even distinguish between what I call legibility for the minute and
    legibility for the hour. William, did you really study with Popper? How fantastic!
    In London? "
  created: '2008-08-09 17:20:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The methodological weakness of the Song & Schwarz study is a weakness that
    is very common in the 'softer' sciences such as psychology and social science.
    It is that the theory they are testing is not well specified. And as a result
    it is not clear what lesson to take from the results. \r\n\r\nMy old teacher Popper
    used to say that an experiment is only as good as the theory that it is testing.
    If the theory that is being tested is not clearly and precisely specified, then
    the chances are that you don't learn a lot from the result. \r\n\r\nThe problem
    that typographers such as Nick Shinn and David Berlow are having here is that
    they know that there are so many more variables involved in readability than typeface.
    Since Song and Schwartz don't discuss these, it is not very clear what you can
    \ conclude from the study. \r\n\r\nAlso note that they asked about the readability
    of the typeface *after* they had done the reading and got answers on how difficult
    they expected the task specified would be. This is a problem. I know from doing
    simple surveys of satisfaction with courses I have taught that if a person likes
    the course, they are likely to be positive about everything, and if they are negative,
    negative about everything. The respondents can't necessarily separate out very
    well what they are responding to.\r\n\r\nAlso note that people may perceive 'readability'
    of the simplest sans forms as being most readable, but that perception may be
    based on impression of individual letters or words, and may not necessarily reflect
    actually readability of extended text as far as ease, speed and comprehension.
    The subject guessing is about readability, not giving an objective result.\r\n\r\nSo
    with these confounding factors, what they found is only this: post-hoc feelings
    about typefaces of these sizes, fonts and layout, and post-hoc feelings about
    ease of task described went together.   \r\n\r\nSo is this a somewhat interesting
    confirmation that typography matters? Yes. Is it clear exactly what this study
    means? Not really. Not a great study, and not a dreadful one either. Just so-so.
    \ \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2008-08-09 17:23:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I was fixing my sentences and my post got out of order with Bill Troop''s.
    Yes I did my PhD in History & Philosophy of Science under Popper at the LSE from
    1965-70. '
  created: '2008-08-09 17:26:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Kevin, no doubt you would like to find a simple cause and effect relationship
    between the elements of design and the reader, something that can be measured
    and turned into a formula. Push button A to trigger emotion B in citizen C. But
    graphic design doesn't work like. Science has been applied to print marketing
    since the early 20th century (eg Daniel Starch), but ad campaigns are still conceived
    by creatives, not \"suits\" or technicians.  Yet scientists and engineers soldier
    on, under the assumption that their forbears just weren't good enough and the
    solution is just around the corner in our high tech world (as if every age is
    not high tech). But what if some things are just not susceptible to such means?\r\n\r\nThese
    Rumsfeld book covers show that the same typeface may be used to different ends,
    but not because the choice of typeface is immaterial. Whether something like the
    Decter cover comes across as a dignified celebration or a transparent puff piece
    is a complex issue. \r\n\r\n<em>What can be done with the body text so people
    will report Rumsfeld as more sympathetic?</em>\r\n\r\nWhy would you want to make
    typography such a direct tool of propaganda, even if it were possible?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-09 18:23:21'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Why would you want to make typography such a direct tool of propaganda,
    even if it were possible?\r\n\r\nBecause that is all that any of us in graphic
    design can do -- either directly or indirectly. Unless we're William Morris. \r\n\r\nWhat
    difference if we're controlled directly (a book about Rumsfeld) or indirectly
    (a book about flowers) (the book about flowers from the same conglomerate that
    publishes Rumsfeld; it's subsidized by Rumsfeld)\r\n\r\nAnything can be used by
    anybody for any purpose -- what is the point of worrying about it? \r\n\r\nA memorable
    illustration from the hand of the master of the double meaning occurs when Freud
    is permitted to leave Vienna for London in 1938. The Nazis require Freud to sign
    a document stating that he has been well treated by them. He signs it, adding,
    'I can most highly recommend the Gestapo to everyone.' With one sentence Freud
    accomplishes the almost miraculous task of pleasing both the Nazis and posterity."
  created: '2008-08-09 18:49:37'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Bill [Berkson] -- <em>Also note that they asked about the readability of
    the typeface *after* they had done the reading and got answers on how difficult
    they expected the task specified would be. This is a problem. [...] So with these
    confounding factors, what they found is only this: post-hoc feelings about typefaces
    of these sizes, fonts and layout, and post-hoc feelings about ease of task described
    went together.</em>\r\n\r\nIn my reading, this was not a usual readability test
    (as is suggested by the unfortunate title). Rather, it aimed at demonstrating
    that human activities or judgement are influenced by minute aspects that are unrelated
    to the activity or subject-matter of the judgement and normally go unnoticed.
    In this case, demonstrate that choice of a typeface (which most of the time is
    something readers are not aware of) influences whether people consider a task
    described (recipe set in one or another typeface) as harder or easier to perform.\r\nIn
    this respect, what you consider confounding is the strength of the test: It does
    <em>not</em> make participants aware of the minute aspect. This is an essential
    part of the test. In my opinion, they should not have mentioned typefaces at all
    in their questions.\r\nBut it would have been more interesting with a more subtle
    choice of typefaces. Arial and Mistral are so obviously different that participants
    may have noticed what the test was \"really\" about even without being told ...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-09 19:22:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Because that is all that any of us in graphic design can do \u2014 either
    directly or indirectly.</em>\r\n\r\nNo, marketers don't carry out direct propaganda,
    technically executed, in the way that a doctor may effect a change in mental condition
    with a psychoactive pill, and that's certainly not the way that graphic design
    is taught or works professionally."
  created: '2008-08-09 20:23:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Karsten, in order to do this right, you would have to test for readability
    independently from the question of difficulty of task. \r\n\r\nThe problem I mentioned
    is a genuine one. There would be others with asking before hand. \r\n\r\nThe fundamental
    thing is that you would need a more objective test of readability. Then the report
    of subjective experience of difficulty of the task would be more meaningful--you
    would know what it really indicates.  "
  created: '2008-08-09 21:23:01'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: 'So you mean, it would take at least two tests: one to determine which type
    is more readable than the other; another to apply this result to define the setting
    for the test we are talking about. (Rather than taking for granted Arial is "easier
    to read" than Mistral.)'
  created: '2008-08-09 21:59:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Yes, that''s it. The problem is that a general test of readability of extended
    text that yields a good measure has not been done yet, to my knowledge. '
  created: '2008-08-09 23:45:38'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Nick let''s discuss the politics of GD sometime else so we don''t derail
    the readability topic. Though readability can get plenty political if you think
    of the transition away from Fraktur. Does anyone read Ovink anymore? '
  created: '2008-08-09 23:54:00'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: What kind of CALT are you talking about Bill (T)? I was talking about contextual
    Alternatives in an Opentype font.  Maybe opentype CALTS have been in some way
    associated by someone with "poor reading ability" but I've never heard of such
    a thing. I think we must have crossed wires.
  created: '2008-08-10 01:49:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, I'm not interested in talking about historical propaganda.\r\nThe point
    I'm making is that graphic design and typography are merely persuasive, there
    is no hidden coercive mechanism as Kevin seems to think.\r\n\r\nWhen I was designing
    book covers, I would present a succession of comps to my client, a creative director
    at a publishing company. She would look at them for a split second: \"no, no,
    maybe, no, no, no, yes\". And when she presented comps to her boss, the process
    would be the same. She was not in the target market, yet she knew instinctively,
    through experience, what would work and what wouldn't. The sought-after reaction
    from book buyers was not something as vague and visceral as \"sympathy\", but
    \"this is the sort of book I'd like to read\", and that was a very specific promise
    which had to be kept. What we discussed was stuff like \"this book is a romantic
    whodunit set in a small town, does this design nail that genre?\"  \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Falls_4533.png]\r\nThis
    concerns the suggestive powers of typography, or how \"the perception of fonts
    impacts the perception of content\". But what kind of cognitive science can explain
    why one of these type treatments conveys the genre and the other doesn't? (The
    one on the left is indeed the romantic whodunit set in a small town, as published.)
    How about memory theory, in particular the exemplar model of categorization, which
    I came across in chapter five of <em>This is Your Brain on Music.</em> \r\n\r\nThe
    text of the <em>The Falls</em> was set in Times, long a mainstay of trade paperbacks.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-10 07:52:42'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: When it comes to reading and interpreting the nexus between Type and the always
    shifting visual culture of the moment - that is at it's core a cultural job. You
    will get no argument from me about a role for science there. Maybe some polling.
    Or focus groups. But hopefully not. Those things are not so much science so much
    as they are a tool for getting some spare CYA.
  created: '2008-08-10 09:18:39'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I do my best to educate them about the field of typography...\"\r\nSo obviously
    you don't mind when I educate them on Science.\r\n\r\n\"...and to get them to
    meet and talk to the typographers here (Mike Duggan and Geraldine Wade).\"\r\n...
    that's how all the specimens disappear in the end. \r\n\r\n\"Any ideas about how
    to make the field of typography less invisible?\"\r\n\r\nTo quote something Microsoft
    Word once said to me, \"We've reached and imp ass\".\r\n\r\nUntil the leaves change,
    So long!"
  created: '2008-08-10 13:19:18'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "William, I agree with your critique and would even take it one step further.
    If Song & Schwarz had first independently measured the readability* of Arial and
    Mistral we still wouldn\u2019t quite know how to interpret the results. While
    Arial and Mistral surely differ in readability they differ in other qualities
    as well.\r\n\r\nInterpreting results in psychology is often difficult and open
    to disagreement. In the end we are left with the experiment itself. If I ran the
    same study, I would expect to get the same results. In this case I would expect
    people who read about an exercise program in Arial to believe that the exercise
    program would be faster and they would be more likely to attempt it than people
    who read about the same exercise program in Mistral.\r\n\r\n* People will surely
    be outraged but I think the time to read and comprehend a passage of text is a
    perfectly fine measure (e.g. Tinker\u2019s studies). I also believe it to be self
    evident that Arial 12 will be read faster and comprehended better than Mistral
    12.\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-10 19:23:16'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Nick, don\u2019t you see that there isn\u2019t any difference between designing
    a book to be sympathetic to the author\u2019s point of view, designing a book
    to be a romantic whodunit set in a small town, and designing a book to make an
    exercise program to seem attainable. These are all different forms of persuasion.\r\n\r\nYes,
    I know that typographers and graphic designers do this on a daily basis. I\u2019m
    a little surprised that consideration is taken to make the book cover a romantic
    whodunit set in a small town, but that Times is used as the body text. Couldn\u2019t
    something be done with the body text to enhance the reading experience of a romantic
    whodunit set in a small town.\r\n\r\n<em>But what kind of cognitive science can
    explain why one of these type treatments conveys the genre and the other doesn\u2019t?</em>\r\n\r\nThere
    isn\u2019t anything right now. Of course there have been [[http://www.surl.org/usabilitynews/81/PersonalityofFonts.asp|studies
    on personalities]] that certain typefaces convey, but that is much too limited
    to properly select typefaces that are romantic, sympathetic, or easy to accomplish.
    But I don\u2019t think any of these questions are inherently unknowable. Wouldn\u2019t
    further understanding help young, inexperienced graphic designers and typographers
    to do better work?\r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin"
  created: '2008-08-10 19:29:35'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "I would certainly use Imperial Gold on Rumsfeld covers .\r\nWould make it
    more personal .\r\n\r\n\" Bembo - Baby ''"
  created: '2008-08-10 20:20:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick, don\u2019t you see that there isn\u2019t any difference between
    designing a book to be sympathetic to the author\u2019s point of view, designing
    a book to be a romantic whodunit set in a small town, and designing a book to
    make an exercise program to seem attainable. These are all different forms of
    persuasion.</em>\r\n\r\nThere's a huge amount of difference, within the general
    rubric of \"persuasion\", but that's not the issue I was addressing.\r\nWe're
    talking about scientists measuring the coercive effect of a specific typeface
    design, not the persuasive effect of a particular page design. When the same typeface
    may be used to quite different effects in different page designs, and in ways
    that are excedingly complex, how is it possible to meaningfully isolate variables?
    This is why I suggested that memory theory and the exemplar model of categorization
    may offer a more meaningful avenue of cognitive research into typeface design
    then \"readability\".\r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019m a little surprised that consideration
    is taken to make the book cover a romantic whodunit set in a small town, but that
    Times is used as the body text. </em>\r\n\r\nWell, your frequent surprise at things
    which are pretty basic to graphic designers is why I suggested you might consider
    taking a course in design or typography.\r\n\r\nI started this thread recently,
    http://www.typophile.com/node/44943\r\n\r\n<em> Couldn\u2019t something be done
    with the body text to enhance the reading experience of a romantic whodunit set
    in a small town.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, but then it wouldn't be pulp fiction. The greatest
    difficulty I had in designing book covers for the mass market was my tendency
    to be too \"designy\". My client explained that readers would categorize such
    covers as \"this is too serious for me\". So the problem with departing from Times
    is that the reader would open the book, look at a page of beautiful Bembo or whatever,
    and think \"Hey, this is literature, I wanted a good read!\" and put the book
    down like a hot potato. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-10 21:23:06'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">look at a page of beautiful Bembo \r\n\r\nonly if it wasn't digital!\r\n\r\nBut
    seriously Nick, and not that this is where I want to go, but where do you draw
    the line between persuasion and coercion? \r\n\r\nEben, Google CALT, that's what
    I thought you meant. Long, long history."
  created: '2008-08-10 22:10:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...where do you draw the line between persuasion and coercion?</em>\r\n\r\nSong
    & Schwartz: \"We propose that people draw on the ease with which information about
    ... behavior can be processed in making \r\neffort estimates... We predict and
    find that people misread the difficulty of processing instructions as indicative
    of the difficulty of executing the behavior...\"\r\n\r\nThis assumes that typeface
    choice acts coercively, in a directly physical way that the reader can't avoid.\r\nSo,
    you specify a particular typeface, and it's hard to read, therefore the reader
    thinks that what it's describing is hard to do.\r\n\r\nA more <em>persuasive</em>
    explanation: the reader's \"effort estimate\" is made by categorizing the genre
    of typeface (hence my reference to memory theory). Therefore, typeface choice
    acts to suggest attributes of the document (not the text), based on the reader's
    cultural awareness, not their biological constitution.\r\n\r\nNow admittedly,
    there is plenty of room for coercive cultural propaganda, but it can't be tied
    to typeface choice pure and simple, given the mutability of typeface meaning. "
  created: '2008-08-10 23:34:42'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Bill, if you would explain - in another thread or by email I would be interested.
    As it is I am still baffled by your statement.\r\n\r\n<cite> mutability of typeface
    meaning </cite>\r\n\r\nThat seems like a key idea. You have on the one hand theoretically
    objective optical testable/empirrical qulaties in text designs and then there
    is the cultural overlay. If I had cause to throw my weight behind Nick's no room
    for science in type design point of view I would justify it by saying that the
    cultural aspect has determanistic primacy. As it is I don't quite believe that.
    But I can imagine an editor or executive being unwilling to shift from a familiar
    \"safe\" type on the basis of that cultural overlay."
  created: '2008-08-11 06:28:16'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Couldn\u2019t something be done with the body text to enhance the reading
    experience of a romantic whodunit set in a small town.\"\r\nLOL. Kevin are you
    a cartoon character? "
  created: '2008-08-15 13:13:51'
date: '2008-06-11 04:14:49'
title: Ruh, roh!

---
