---
author:
  name: James Thomas
body: "<strong>Calling all designers, typographers and typophiles:</strong>\r\n\r\nI
  am currently working on a major new international typography book \u2013 called
  \u201C1000 Fonts\u201D \u2013 which will be published by Chronicle Books in early
  2009. I\u2019m looking for outstanding examples of typography to illustrate the
  book.  \r\n\r\nI have already received a large number of artworks for the title,
  from huge agencies such as Saatchi & Saatchi through to one man graphic design companies
  working out of bedroom studios: the only condition for work to be included in the
  book is that it is of the highest quality... and that it uses one of the fonts on
  our shortlist of 1000.  \r\n\r\nThe book will cover typography in a wide variety
  of media, so examples ranging from publishing to corporate identity, product design
  to signage, are all encouraged. Also, feel free to submit as many examples of typography
  as you wish, using as many or as few of the fonts on our list as you like. \r\n\r\nA
  full list of the fonts which we need artworks for is at the foot of this message.
  The deadline for submissions is Monday 14 July 2008.\r\n\r\nIf you would be interested
  in showcasing your work (alongside your URL) within the book, please get in touch
  at the contact details below, or upload your work directly to our FTP site, along
  with: your contact details, client details, the date the work was produced, and
  the font the work was produced with. If your entries are selected for inclusion,
  you will also receive a complimentary signed copy of the book.\r\n\r\nThanks for
  reading, and I look forward to hearing from you,\r\n\r\nJames Thomas\r\nSenior Project
  Editor\r\n\r\nThe Ivy Group\r\nthomas@ivy-group.co.uk\r\n\r\n<em>\r\nINFORMATION:\r\nPlease
  send examples of your best typographic work, specifying which font(s) is/are used
  in each example, and giving details of designer, agency, client and the date the
  work was produced, to:\r\nJames Thomas, \LSenior Project Editor,\LThe Ivy Group,\LThe
  Old Candlemakers,\LWest Street, Lewes\LEast Sussex BN7 2NZ, UK\r\nPlease send material
  on CD or DVD, not as email attachments. Alternatively, you can upload material to
  the Ivy Press FTP server at:\r\nAddress: ftphome.ivypress.co.uk\LUser id: ftpfonts\LPassword:
  1000fonts2008\r\nWe can also accept submissions via yousendit. \r\nWe guarantee
  that your work will not be used for any purpose other than for inclusion in 1000
  Fonts. Inclusion of you artwork is subject to acceptance of our standard terms,
  the details of which are as follows:\r\n1. You agree that we may reproduce all artworks
  provided by you for inclusion in this title, in all editions of this title. This
  agreement does not extend to their inclusion in other works produced by Ivy Press.\r\n2.
  If selected for use, the artwork will be fully credited to you.\r\n3. You confirm
  that all artworks provided by you for inclusion in this title were created by you
  and that you own the copyright. Where third-party copyright holders are involved
  you undertake to deliver written permissions and releases from these third parties
  in a form satisfactory to Ivy Press.\r\nIf you would like further details about
  the project, please contact 1000fonts@ivy-group.co.uk or go to (http://www.ivy-group.co.uk/1000_fonts/)\r\n\r\n</em>\r\n\r\n\r\n<strong>\r\nTHE
  FONTS:\r\nAgenda\r\nAlgerian D\r\nAlinea\r\nAmasis\r\nAmazone\r\nAristocrat\r\nArnold
  Bocklin\r\nAtma\r\nAuthentic Sans Linotype\r\nAutograph\r\nAvalon\r\nAvant Garde\r\nBailey
  Sans\r\nBalmoral\r\nBank Gothic\r\nBarbedor\r\nBarcelona\r\nBaskerville\r\nBauer
  Bodoni\r\nBeaufort\r\nBenjamin\r\nBerkeley Old Style\r\nBickley Script\r\nBlackoak\r\nBliss\r\nBoberia\r\nBodega
  Sans\r\nBookman\r\nBraggadocio\r\nBremen\r\nBroadway\r\nCaecilia\r\nCaflische Script
  Pro\r\nCancellaresca Script\r\nCeleste\r\nCellini\r\nCentaur*\r\nCentury Gothic\r\nCezanne\r\nCharter\r\nCheltenham*\r\nChoc\r\nCinderella
  ITC\r\nClarendon*\r\nClassic Roman\r\nCochin*\r\nCommercial Script\r\nCooper Black\r\nCopperplate
  gothic\r\nCopperplate*\r\nCourier\r\nCourier Ragged\r\nCraw Modern\r\nCurlz\r\nDelima\r\nDelphin\r\nDemos\r\nDiamanti\r\nEdwardian\r\nEdwardian
  Script\r\nEgyptienne\r\nEmpire\r\nEngravers\r\nEras ITC\r\nFalstaff*\r\nFelix\r\nFelt
  Pen\r\nFestival Titling\r\nFournier\r\nFrutiger*\r\nFutura\r\nGiddyup\r\nGigi\r\nGlypha*\r\nGoudy
  (range)*\r\nGrand Central-caps only\r\nGrotesk URW\r\nHelvetica Neue\r\nHiroshige\r\nHobo\r\nImpact*\r\nInsigne
  Splats\r\nIsadora\r\nJanson\r\nJenson Eusebius\r\nJenson Pro\r\nJocelyn\r\nJohann
  Sparkling\r\nKennerley\r\nKiev\r\nKino\r\nKursivschrift\r\nLambada\r\nLassigue DMato\r\nLatino\r\nLuMarc\r\nLunatix\r\nMachine\r\nMadame\r\nMariposa\r\nMemphis\r\nMeridien\r\nmesquite\r\nmeta\r\nMiller\r\nMinion\r\nMojo\r\nMonkton\r\nMonodular
  TX\r\nMrs Eaves\r\nNat Vignette\r\nNeosans\r\nNew Aster\r\nNew Caledonia\r\nNicholas
  Cochin\r\nObelisk\r\nocean sans\r\nOfficina\r\nOfficina ITC\r\nOld Style\r\nOndine\r\nOnyx\r\noptima\r\nOrigami\r\nPablo\r\nPalatino\r\nParadigm\r\nParty\r\nPasquale\r\nPercival\r\nPerpetua\r\nPlaybill\r\nprensa\r\nPresent\r\nPrestige\r\nProforma\r\nRedonda\r\nRobotik\r\nRosewood\r\nRotis*\r\nSabon\r\nSerifa\r\nShelley\r\nSlimbach\r\nSloop\r\nSnap
  ITC\r\nSnell Roundhand\r\nSoho\r\nStencil\r\nStone Sans\r\nStreamline\r\nSymbol\r\nTarquinius\r\nTea
  Chest Stencil\r\ntheAntiqua\r\nTimes New Roman*\r\ntitus\r\nToots\r\nTrajan\r\ntwinkle\r\nUnivers\r\nVAG\r\nVariable\r\nVerdana\r\nViva\r\nVivaldi\r\nWaterloo
  Bold\r\nWoodland\r\nZanzibar\r\nZapfino\r\nZebrawood\r\nZupra Sans</strong>\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I'm really curious: What was the criteria for choosing the 1000? These 172
    provide a weird gamut of styles and periods, both pass\xE9 and au courante. And
    what does the asterisk indicate?\r\n\r\n(Also, you need to close your &lt;em&gt;
    and &lt;strong&gt; tags.)"
  created: '2008-06-12 16:57:22'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">called \u201C1000 Fonts\u201D \r\n\r\nI'm no math wiz, but that seems to
    be more like 172 fonts, I agree not such a punchy title."
  created: '2008-06-12 16:58:25'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Kent, you're a faster counter than me!
  created: '2008-06-12 16:59:00'
- author:
    name: Stefan H
    picture: 109742
  body: "Thomas,\r\n\r\nI have to agree with Kent that the chosen typefaces are mostly
    rather common or \"dull\". Many of them exploited way beyond the border of \"health\".
    Also there has already been a large amount of books covering these ones. What
    designers need is to be introduced to newer designs (and there are many great
    examples) to get inspired and filled with new ideas."
  created: '2008-06-12 17:12:25'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Many of them exploited way beyond the border of \u201Chealth\u201D.
    Also there has already been a large amount of books covering these ones.</cite>\r\n\r\nYeah,
    but this one is a Chronicle book. I\u2019m guessing that the stuff that turns
    up won\u2019t just be the same old stuff with the same old fonts."
  created: '2008-06-12 17:18:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">won\u2019t just be the same old stuff with the same old fonts.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    \"1000 Honest Fonts\" might be a better title, then?"
  created: '2008-06-12 17:20:07'
- author:
    name: James Thomas
  body: "Hi Kentlew\r\n\r\nThanks for your message. A little bit of background about
    the criteria for choosing the fonts... \r\n\r\nThe target market for the book
    is graphic design students and those starting out in a career in design, although
    more experienced designers would doubtless find it useful as well. The idea behind
    the book is to order the fonts featured by major aspects of function, allowing
    the reader to quickly identify a range of suitable fonts for a particular project
    at hand. The book is heavily illustrated with examples to demonstrate the range
    and variety of results achievable with a single font, examples which will hopefully
    provide both experienced designers and newbies with inspiration to apply to their
    own projects. Given our target audience there was a need to include a percentage
    of classics/tried and tested/\"workhorses\" as well as some more contemporary
    typefaces. In this regard, our consultant editor on the title, Bob Gordon of the
    University of Brighton, was ideally placed to direct the selection as he has massive
    experience with both design students and young/emerging typographers. What we're
    aiming for is a book that will stand the test of time though, so we believe it's
    important to maintain a proportion of \"classics\" (we have also found in our
    image research to date that there is no shortage of designers producing exciting
    and enduring work with these fonts). \r\n\r\nComing back to the issue of artworks.
    Yes, we have found examples for the majority of fonts that we are looking to illustrate,
    these 170-odd are the ones that we are now directing our search towards... no
    fear: there will be 1000 fonts in the book!\r\n\r\nAny questions, please don't
    hesitate to ask!\r\n\r\nAll the best\r\n\r\nJames\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-12 17:35:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "</em></strong>It's an interesting method of compiling a selection of font
    showings--showing them in real-world usage, rather than the usual practice of
    culling from foundry specimens (including faux ads) or creating artwork specifically
    for the publication. The user-driven method of compilation is very contemporary.\r\n\r\nSo
    if you've done anything half-decent with Beaufort or Paradigm, I encourage you
    to submit it!"
  created: '2008-06-12 17:54:09'
- author:
    name: Stefan H
    picture: 109742
  body: "James,\r\n\r\nChronicle is in fact one of my favourite publisher. I have
    \ around two dozen of books from there. And some even using my typefaces. Well
    I won't be too judging before I see this book. Hopefully it will be above the
    standard pieces.\r\n\r\nCheers\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-12 18:54:34'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I have no problem with including classics; you don't have to apologize for
    that. \r\n\r\nWhat I found curious is the presence of decidedly period (and pass\xE9)
    designs like Arnold Boecklin, Braggadocio, Bremen, Festival Titling, and Playbill,
    just to name a few that jump out at me. \r\n\r\nThat, and the absence of Whitman
    :-(\r\n\r\n(Sii, I just copied and pasted the list into BBEdit, did a line count,
    and Bob's your uncle.)\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2008-06-12 18:56:37'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: </em></strong> (fixing the open tags...)
  created: '2008-06-12 19:08:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Merci.\r\n\r\n<em>pass\xE9</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps they are now <em>au courant</em>
    in the UK."
  created: '2008-06-12 20:23:57'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Yes, this list looks pretty deeply naive to me. And I expect that will be
    so for the vast majority of buyers. Even students who know very little may be
    put off simply by the out of date feeling. I expect more from Chronicle! I suggest
    that you request help here on Typophile or elsewhere in selecting some additional
    faces.
  created: '2008-06-12 22:35:41'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: We received an invitation to submit work, but we have declined.
  created: '2008-06-12 23:21:13'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "I don't this will change anybody's mind, but I noticed that there is a longer
    list on the website for the project:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.ivy-group.co.uk/1000_fonts/list.html\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-12 23:37:14'
- author:
    name: Stefan H
    picture: 109742
  body: "Ricardo,\r\n\r\nHmm I had a look myself and found my own \"Delicato\" in
    there. Being among so many \"outdated\" designs I can't just be too positive about
    it... sorry! Normally I would jump of joy, this time I don't. And the fact that
    Whitman (together with a bunch of others) is left out is a shame too."
  created: '2008-06-13 19:08:54'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Oh, I'm not necessarily disagreeing with you, Stefan... I just wanted to make
    sure that buried link was seen by everyone.
  created: '2008-06-13 22:50:23'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: "James,\r\n\r\nI see some of our fonts on the list as well, but I don't recall
    agreeing to participate. Please contact press@typography.com regarding permissions
    for faces from Hoefler & Frere-Jones.\r\n\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\nJonathan Hoefler"
  created: '2008-06-15 22:57:50'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Jonathan, if they have a valid license for the font, or a designer does, and
    contributes a piece they make - there is no issue - or is there? If I am mistaken
    I would like especially like to understand why.
  created: '2008-06-16 04:19:29'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: No Eben, there's no issue, you're right. JH
  created: '2008-06-16 05:01:51'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Maybe I can learn to edit my texts better as well. Cheers!
  created: '2008-06-16 09:51:37'
- author:
    name: tomatej
    picture: 110502
  body: "Hi, why there is everybody so sour about this?\r\nIt seems like a great project
    to me! Lot of work though!\r\nGood luck and looking forward for the outcome.\r\n\r\nCheers
    :)"
  created: '2008-06-16 18:09:35'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I challenge anyone to show great work using Algerian, Eras or Delphin. Anyone
    can do their work look great with good faces but I like the idea of showing what
    can be done with those.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2008-06-16 19:01:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...why [] is everybody so sour about this?\"\r\nI imagine it's more cautious
    than sour. As JH has already applied peanut butter, here's some jelly. \r\nThe
    cost, if one licensed 1/2 of the fonts in this book, would be around $20,000,
    an unlikely sum to pay for most.\r\nWe get a couple dozen, \"give us your fonts
    so we can make a book about fonts\" requests per year. \r\nThe number of fabulous
    type books that come out per year, is somewhere around .45.\r\nSandwich complete?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-16 19:40:26'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\r\n>Hi, why there is everybody so sour about this?\r\n\r\nhttp://store.apple.com/us/search?find=1000+Fonts
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-16 19:59:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I did some "great" work with Eras in 1981, but it was set so tightly (as was
    de rigueur) that it's impossible to read today. (People were more accomplished
    readers back then). Perhaps I should submit it...
  created: '2008-06-16 20:21:06'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "\"The target market for the book is graphic design students and those starting
    out in a career in design,\"\r\n\r\nWhen I was a student I had no money to buy
    books, only beer."
  created: '2008-06-17 05:15:06'
- author:
    name: helvetican
  body: When I was a student I had no money to buy beer, only books.
  created: '2008-06-17 06:22:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: When I was a beer I had no students to buy books.
  created: '2008-06-18 15:07:31'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: When beer was a student books had no I to buy I.
  created: '2008-06-18 17:45:12'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I challenge anyone to show great work using\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nWell,
    that might be why he\u2019s still looking for some of these.\r\n\r\n<cite>The
    cost, if one licensed 1/2 of the fonts in this book, would be around $20,000,
    an unlikely sum to pay for most.</cite>\r\n\r\nDave, this is coming from Chronicle
    books, which has been churning a wild variety of stuff for some time. If could
    very well be that Chronicle already has licenses for most of the fonts in the
    book."
  created: '2008-06-18 18:54:10'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: And because they are soliciting works it means that they need not own even
    license. The designers have to own them. It could be a "no cost" book except for
    the printing.
  created: '2008-06-19 07:27:11'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@David Berlow: <em>When I was a beer I had no students to buy books.</em>\r\n\r\nBest
    ad-libber.\r\n\r\nLet me see now,\r\nWhen students were only beer they had no
    books to buy money.\r\nWhen beer was a student I only had money books to buy.\r\nWhen
    books bought money I was only a beer student.\r\nWhen I was a beer student I had
    no money to buy books.\r\n\r\nAw spit, what's the topic of this one again? Oh
    yeah, one time a few years ago a woman wrote to me to ask for permission to use
    one of my retail fonts in a book about typography, promising my font catalog URI
    would be printed next to samples of the font in the book when it was published.
    She conveniently made no mention of license fees due. She only asked for permission
    to use the font. I told her I was very busy and my time is worth money, and just
    answering her crawling request had cost me twenty bucks, and she certainly had
    my permission to use the font if she paid the license fee. She wrote back saying
    another font maker had granted permission to use their font at zero cost (no license
    fee) in the book. I told her that person was a  fool she had bilked into letting
    her use their font for free.\r\n\r\nTurned out her husband was writing the book,
    and the woman was doing the soliciting. I won't disclose the woman's name or religion,
    because that would be seen as bigoted discrimination against people of her ilk.\r\n\r\nCheapskates!
    Never give in to cheapskates. I almost billed her for wasting my time, but that
    would have cost me even more time and revenue.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-06-19 11:17:39'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...this is coming from Chronicle books,\"\r\nOh well in that case, my advice
    stands. There are 1,000 fonts available to every single student in the world for
    free. \r\n\r\nI don't see a lot of people out there behind the wheels of Ferraris
    with \"student driver\" strapped to their roofs. \r\n\r\nThey graduate, eventually.
    \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-06-19 11:38:50'
- author:
    name: James Thomas
  body: "Dear all\r\n\r\nFirst, a big thank you to all of those who have submitted
    work following my initial post. We have received some really interesting submissions
    and it will take some time to go through them and determine which ones we use
    for the book, but I will be in touch with you individually as soon as we have
    made our decisions to let you know if we will be using your work. \r\n\r\nThank
    you also to all those who have responded to my initial post. Whether positive
    or not, all of your feedback is useful. It's good to see that the post generated
    some debate as well. Of course, it's an impossible task to keep everyone happy
    with a book of this type (a list of 1000 of anything will always divide opinion
    to some degree)... however, we're open to all types of feedback (although naturally
    we prefer the constructive type!). \r\n\r\nFor those who were disappointed at
    the omission of certain fonts, please feel free to submit work. If you feel that
    we've made some glaring omissions we would welcome the opportunity to see examples
    of those fonts we have omitted... we're completely open-minded and prepared to
    have our minds changed on this one.\r\n\r\nSecondly, I just wanted to address
    the issue of font licenses. We are not, as some have suggested, soliciting works
    in order to obtain font licenses. We in fact have licenses already for all of
    the fonts that will be included in the book. \r\n\r\nLastly, a reminder that the
    invitation for entries is still open. Deadline: 14 July.\r\n\r\nThanks again for
    your interest and feedback.\r\n\r\nAll the best\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2008-06-23 16:34:27'
- author:
    name: John Lyttle
    picture: 117549
  body: After reading this node, I was curious to see if the book existed by now.
    [[http://www.amazon.com/1000-Fonts-Keith-Martin/dp/081186846X|1000 Fonts]] appears
    to have been published in 2009. The [[http://www.ivypress.co.uk/resource/item.htm?pid=381|UK
    version]] has a different design.
  created: '2010-02-10 21:15:08'
- author:
    name: _jimmy_
    picture: 112614
  body: "It does exist, I've a copy on my desk. It's published in the US by Chronicle,
    and the UK by Ivy Press.\r\nNice chunky book, and, what's handy, is all the real-world
    examples of fonts in use.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-11 13:09:33'
date: '2008-06-12 15:54:59'
title: Invitation to submit typographic work for major new book

---
