---
author:
  name: Frode Bo Helland
  picture: 112295
body: Typophilers, would you care to post your latest typefaces (and perhaps some
  soon to arrive)? I'm looking to expand my toolbox in no particular direction.
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lsansbold_5584.png]\r\n\r\nHopefully
    to exist in four weights sometime this summer. "
  created: '2008-06-16 17:35:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Duffy2_5932.png]'
  created: '2008-06-16 18:28:17'
- author:
    name: Chiba Chiba
    picture: 112595
  body: "Fiasco. Soon to arrive...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fiasco_5681.jpg]"
  created: '2008-06-16 19:00:44'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "From soon to not so very soon:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/coming_up_5891.png]"
  created: '2008-06-16 19:53:46'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/compe_5581.jpg]\r\nTrying to finish it.
    A few more \"next\" \"some day\" samples <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/17849178@N00/\">here</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-16 20:43:31'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "OK, I got some Kind-a noive posting my type designs in this company... These's
    no  getting around the fact that I'm at the type design greenhorn stage. I may
    or may not ever get around to releasing some of the typefaces I've got on the
    go - eventually... \r\n\r\nany hoo - Mean time:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/campcraft_beadwork_6369.jpg]\r\n\r\nClearly
    still in need of work.\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-06-17 01:37:20'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: Jos, I just wanted to let you know that I'm really looking forward to Museo
    Sans. Although I'm hesitant to name any one typeface my favorite, Museo definitely
    ranks up there, and I find myself going back to it in project after project.
  created: '2008-06-17 02:31:50'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Was that Museo I noticed on the Tony Awards?
  created: '2008-06-17 04:40:27'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "None of them have any kerning (I didn't get to that point on any of them)
    and I think I suck at spacing, everything's always too loose or too tight\u2026
    also, I'm just now beginning to grasp contrast control and I still haven't given
    a real shot at figures\u2026 anyway, they're all work in progress from someone
    still learning and practicing. So, in chronological order:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GordaSans_6684.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/broken_4497.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GordaSerif_5296.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sofia_4421.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Illuminati_4194.png]\r\n\r\nSorry
    for spamming such large images, but I wanted to show them up close\u2026\r\n\r\nruD"
  created: '2008-06-17 04:45:19'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Ruben\u2026you really need to space those and release them. Because they\u2019re
    gorgeous."
  created: '2008-06-17 05:05:31'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: "Ruben, I agree with James.\r\n\r\nOther James, I checked, and I'm pretty
    sure that it wasn't Museo during the Tonys. The serifs are different (look at
    the S).\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Notmuseo_5795.jpg]"
  created: '2008-06-17 05:40:02'
- author:
    name: Stephen Rapp
    picture: 111901
  body: "This is a pointed brush script that's getting close to completion.\r\nStephen[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Montague_3428.jpg]"
  created: '2008-06-17 06:34:56'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/screenshot_0254_4769.png]\r\n\r\n[[http://typophile.com/node/41105|Agamemnon]]
    still needs some tweaks, but I expect a simple version will be ready to go shortly
    after I complete an equipment upgrade. I have a bunch of other projects on the
    back burner too."
  created: '2008-06-17 07:35:39'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "<cite>Jos, I just wanted to let you know that I\u2019m really looking forward
    to Museo Sans. Although I\u2019m hesitant to name any one typeface my favorite,
    Museo definitely ranks up there, and I find myself going back to it in project
    after project.</cite>\r\n\r\nThank you Eric. That's really great! For Museo Sans
    I'm also planning an italic, so it will take me longer to finish, but I expect
    to release it this year.\r\n\r\n@ Ruben: Nice work!"
  created: '2008-06-17 08:37:16'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: "Agilita is my latest design and released by Linotype.\r\nSome of my current
    work is displayed below.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/t_inprogress_5150.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/n_t_3557.jpg]"
  created: '2008-06-17 09:16:19'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: great thread!!!
  created: '2008-06-17 10:12:07'
- author:
    name: dstype
    picture: 111104
  body: "Just released: Capsa.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DSType_Capsa_4951.jpg]\r\n\r\nYou
    can find more info here: http://www.typophile.com/node/46461\r\n\r\nDino dos Santos\r\nDSTYPE"
  created: '2008-06-17 11:08:58'
- author:
    name: tomhowe
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/utopia_5965.JPG]\r\nUtopia"
  created: '2008-06-17 11:51:15'
- author:
    name: Pieter van Rosmalen
    picture: 109564
  body: "They are all very, very much in progress\u2026 It\u2019s just a matter of
    (a lot of) time.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Caponi_Normal_5133.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Caponi_Bold_6228.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Nitti_Normal_3898.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Nitti_Black_5789.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Pinup_4013.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Route_6088.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Route_Rounded_5940.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Stanley_4637.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Stanley_Stencil_4462.gif]\r\n\r\nPieter"
  created: '2008-06-17 12:47:07'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "Well, thank you James, DrDoc and Jos! :)\r\nI've been starting to pay attention
    to scripts, and I really like these. Particularly Stephen's.\r\nBTW, Dino, don't
    you need an intern or something\u2026? ;P That's another great typeface.\r\n\r\nIndeed,
    a great thread!\r\n\r\nruD"
  created: '2008-06-17 13:18:31'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>Other James, I checked, and I\u2019m pretty sure that it wasn\u2019t
    Museo during the Tonys. The serifs are different (look at the S).</cite>\r\n(needle-scratch
    sound effect) \r\nNow I\u2019ll have to figure out what it actually is. "
  created: '2008-06-17 13:33:53'
- author:
    name: miles
    picture: 110468
  body: "over on the critique forum:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/45498"
  created: '2008-06-17 14:04:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Tom, There is already a very well known typeface called Utopia.\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2008-06-17 15:02:23'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: Great thread. Promoted to front page.
  created: '2008-06-17 16:19:10'
- author:
    name: tomhowe
  body: "Yeh I know, designed by Robert Slimbach. It is my final year design project,
    it aint going to be released.\r\n\r\nTom"
  created: '2008-06-17 16:20:39'
- author:
    name: rui abreu
    picture: 111513
  body: Orbe Pro. Just released at www.Fountaintype.com[img:sites/default/files/old-images/textSetOrbe_6524.jpg]
  created: '2008-06-17 16:53:56'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: ":O\r\n\r\nAnother fellow portuguese typophile! I won't write in portuguese
    so as to not let anyone out of the conversation.\r\nRui, that's really great.
    Was it inspired in something in particular? In some way, it does have a certain
    portuguese feel to it, but I don't know what it is or why I would feel that.\r\nJust
    curious. I'd like to see those originals.\r\n\r\nruD"
  created: '2008-06-17 17:11:19'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Dino: I gave your Leitura <a href="http://www.typophile.com/node/42039">a
    hard time</a> a while back, but there''s no secret that you are very talented.
    I like Capsa a lot. Dstype is bookmarked.'
  created: '2008-06-17 18:53:04'
- author:
    name: dstype
    picture: 111104
  body: "Frode\r\n\r\nThanks for your comments.\r\nIt's a fact that sometimes I get
    over excited with ligatures,\r\nbut that's only my baroque side expressing itself
    :-)\r\n\r\n\r\nDino"
  created: '2008-06-17 19:42:28'
- author:
    name: Stephen Rapp
    picture: 111901
  body: "Here are links to a PDF sample and the font page at Veer for my new design
    Memoir. Its not officially a web release as yet (those haven't been updated since
    March), but it is in the printed catalog and buried in the collection.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.veer.com/download/pdf/memoir_specimen.pdf\r\n\r\nhttp://www.veer.com/products/typedetail.aspx?image=UMT0000329\r\n\r\nStephen\r\n\r\nps.
    I'd post an image here, but I'm at my day job presently."
  created: '2008-06-17 20:06:47'
- author:
    name: rui abreu
    picture: 111513
  body: "Ruben, viva!\r\n\r\nI got to know this forms mainly in old portuguese books
    I found, but they come from inscriptions on portuguese monuments of \"estilo manuelino\".
    Their are very beautiful actually, and i think that the baroque way that these
    calligraphic forms, tending to the uncial capitals, are composed together (and
    not as page capital) is very portuguese. We can find this forms carved in some
    monuments but I would like know more, maybe on \"Forais\" we can see good examples
    as well.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-17 21:06:21'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Pieter I love love love to \u221E\xB2 your work. One of my favorite fonts
    of all time is your work for KPN... those bastard. :-)\r\n\r\nI\u2019m really
    diggin\u2019 your Caponi too.\r\n\r\nPlease keep us posted!\r\n\r\nMike Diaz :-)"
  created: '2008-06-17 22:13:18'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "Obrigado, Rui. I really should pay more attention when visiting monuments\u2026
    :P\r\n\r\nruD"
  created: '2008-06-17 22:19:48'
- author:
    name: jayyy
    picture: 109661
  body: "PIETER:\r\n\r\nYour Stanley Stencil is my favorite so far. Really nice work!"
  created: '2008-06-17 22:28:33'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "Engrez -- Regular + Bold.\r\nSorry, yet an another boring squarish sans in
    his way.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typophile_4982.jpg]"
  created: '2008-06-18 00:37:01'
- author:
    name: jmickel
    picture: 111302
  body: "This is Router, to be released very soon through Village. \r\n\r\nI have
    typophile to thank for all the people I met through here, and all the great feedback
    and support I've gotten.\r\n\r\nA little spacing work is left to be done, and
    intermediate weights will be interpolated...\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[[http://www.mickeldesign.com/review/router.pdf|pdf
    here]][img:sites/default/files/old-images/router_5971.jpg]"
  created: '2008-06-18 00:53:41'
- author:
    name: Arlo Vance
    picture: 111713
  body: "Here's Marua.\r\n\r\nShe's still having some plastic surgery done, but will
    be beautiful in no time. Lots of work to still do.\r\nCheck her out in the critique
    section also: [[http://typophile.com/node/43499]]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Marua_4429.jpg]"
  created: '2008-06-18 03:33:59'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "JLM> Michael Abbink has typeface in the works also named Router:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.daidala.com/router.html\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-18 04:18:19'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Arlo, that lowercase alternate for q is HOT.
  created: '2008-06-18 05:03:27'
- author:
    name: Arlo Vance
    picture: 111713
  body: "@James\r\n\r\nI saw a sample of futura that had one and fell in love. "
  created: '2008-06-18 05:19:05'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "Just released at PSY/OPS, Exemplar Pro:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/exemplarprospec_4219.jpg]"
  created: '2008-06-18 10:21:12'
- author:
    name: Joebob
    picture: 111188
  body: I'm working on pencilPete, a handwritten font:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PPsample_5516.jpg]
  created: '2008-06-18 11:08:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Satya - that's nice and clean, and the text is about Brimham Rocks; 10 miles
    north of where I live.\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2008-06-18 11:16:40'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "Thanks Nick!\r\n\r\nThis is a Latin typeface I have been working along with
    my final degree project here with the Dalton Maag. Since my project is about a
    few Indian scripts I thought It would be a good idea(from the learning point of
    view) to work on a Latin typeface simultaneously.  \r\n\r\nBtw, where is your
    studio in London?\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-18 12:04:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Brimham Rocks is not 10 miles north of London - it's in Yorkshire ;^)\r\n\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2008-06-18 12:33:37'
- author:
    name: daniele capo
    picture: 113718
  body: "Well, these are my \u2018projects\u2019:\r\n\r\nthe first one, pince-nez\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pince_5681.gif]\r\n\r\nthe
    second is a font I designed for a project promoted by my studio. We designed an
    illustrated version of italian Costitution for the 60th anniversay (and, well,
    maybe the last one). We needed a font to print the text at small size. I'm planning
    to finish the font and add an italic. (Images of the big illustrated constitution,
    are here: http://www.flickr.com/photos/gramme_design/)\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rico_4958.gif]"
  created: '2008-06-18 14:10:20'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: Pince-nez is nice too!
  created: '2008-06-18 17:51:28'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: This is the Typophile thread to end all threads. Very inspiring.
  created: '2008-06-18 22:18:21'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: I guess this will run forever. The mother of self promotion.
  created: '2008-06-18 22:21:38'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>This is the Typophile thread to end all threads. Very inspiring.</cite>\r\n\r\nKind
    of hits my inferiority complex, tho. Ruben\u2019s fonts are so pretty I\u2019m
    tempted to get a job just so I\u2019ll have work to use them in when he releases
    them!"
  created: '2008-06-18 22:25:26'
- author:
    name: David Sudweeks
    picture: 112594
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/EtLFunk_6267.png]\r\nStill sketching
    on caps and symbols here. No name for this project yet."
  created: '2008-06-18 22:31:26'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "One of the things I'm working on is a revival of Filmotype Ginger:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ginger_6080.png]\r\n\r\nThe
    other stuff I'm keeping under my hat for now."
  created: '2008-06-18 22:48:32'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "A few early bits from a National expansion.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/klim_national_expansion_4506.gif]\r\n\r\nLike
    Mark, the rest can stay under my hat for the time being."
  created: '2008-06-18 22:58:57'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Oh, and this little bit of lettering for <a href=\"http://www.wildflour.co.nz/\">Wild
    Flour</a>.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/wildflour_logo_3710.jpg]"
  created: '2008-06-18 23:08:29'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<cite>This is the Typophile thread to end all threads.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt ends
    all my budding aspirations to <em>ever</em> try and create a font.\r\n\r\nCapsa
    and Agilita are my favourites. Well, until the next gorgeous image ..."
  created: '2008-06-18 23:12:22'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "Almost forgot this one, soon available at Fountain \u2013 Flieger.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/flieger_example_2_5776.gif]"
  created: '2008-06-18 23:14:12'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Yes, this thread should keep going!\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-19 00:12:48'
- author:
    name: rui abreu
    picture: 111513
  body: Let's keep the fire burning[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture-1_6670.jpg]
  created: '2008-06-19 00:16:25'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "Miles, am a big fan of Modena.\r\n\r\nKris, the WILD FLOUR lettering is gorgeous!
    \r\n\r\nRui, I loved the ORBE and the promotional animation even more. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-19 01:06:39'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Hi still working on this...\r\nAnt\xF3nio Fonseca\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tipo1_4584.gif]"
  created: '2008-06-19 01:12:23'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "@Rui: That'll go nicely with Orbe! Although this one sort of feels french,
    to me. Or maybe english\u2026 nah, probably french. It's too \u201Cpretty\u201D
    to be english. :P\r\n@James: That's too much, really\u2026 I really appreciate
    (and desperately need) compliments, but that's just too much! :P BTW, are you
    sure you really want a job? I know I don't. I'd much rather ride my bycicle, design
    type and play the guitar every day just for the fun of it. And as long as I can,
    that's exactly what I'll do. :P\r\n\r\nI think my favourite so far is Orbe. There's
    something familiar about familiarity\u2026 :P I think it's striking, all quirky
    and flourished and yet still quite homogenous. AND it makes me feel comfortable.
    :P Seriously, I really like it."
  created: '2008-06-19 01:20:34'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Since I had gotten in a tizzy about the US Post Office building lettering,
    I set straight to work on creating it as a font. I matched the cap forms exactly
    although some need some tweaks. Once I had gotten most of the caps done I decided
    to see just for kicks if I could make a style appropriate lowercase and was pleased
    with my result . . . It has lots of problems right now but I hope to get it in
    good order soon!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/usps_5939.gif]"
  created: '2008-06-19 02:19:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Dez-in-process_3781.png]\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-19 02:40:08'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "A fucking research project, excuse my French, that\u2019s going nowhere,
    and three full books.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2008-06-19 04:56:15'
- author:
    name: haildesign
    picture: 111464
  body: "A couple in progress. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hailDesign_5106.png]\r\n\r\n---------------------\r\nwww.haildesign.com.au"
  created: '2008-06-19 05:47:33'
- author:
    name: Arild
    picture: 113062
  body: "This is Trapstruct, an ink-trap experiment made in Fontstruct.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Trapstruct_4987.jpg]\r\n\r\nAvailable
    for free from <a href=\"http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/trapstruct\">http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/trapstruct</a>."
  created: '2008-06-19 09:53:43'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: I like everything above, specially Capsa, and Orbe. Awesome!
  created: '2008-06-19 11:59:36'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "I\u2019m a bit slacking off with my typefaces at the moment, but this is
    some of the more promising (to me) stuff I\u2019ve been working on \u2013 there\u2019s
    more, but you wouldn\u2019t want want to see it. \r\n\r\nClara, a slightly rounded
    sans:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/clara_6735.png]\r\n\r\nBerto
    (working name, it will be probably changed), an extra-light/extra-bold/big x-height
    sans:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/berto_5629.png]\r\n\r\nSome numbers
    in the modern/pointed-nib pen style with extreme contrast (hairlines are 1em unit
    wide) and influences from all over the place, from Figgins (Elephant, Falstaff)
    to Didot, Bodoni etc. I\u2019ve been drawing these in the past few days, as an
    exercise (8 is not done yet):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/modern-numbers_5707.png]"
  created: '2008-06-19 13:12:16'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: Sweet mother of me, those are some juicy numbers!
  created: '2008-06-19 13:59:52'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: "Another one I m working hard is <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/17849178@N00/2496676947/\">Adios
    Script - 2009</a>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/freak_5649.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-19 14:11:11'
- author:
    name: rbarker21
    picture: 113839
  body: "Some great work guys!! totally off subject i know (apologies!!!) but could
    you check out the font on this typophile post and let me know what you think,
    its a new logo http://typophile.com/node/46557\r\n\r\nWhy thank you!!\r\n\r\nhttp://www.adelto.co.uk"
  created: '2008-06-19 15:42:26'
- author:
    name: hn2o
    picture: 109689
  body: "Here's two sans things I've been playing around with recently\u2026\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hn2o_vict_5660.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hn2o_mod_3786.jpg]"
  created: '2008-06-19 16:42:14'
- author:
    name: malcolm
    picture: 109919
  body: "Been working on this, off and on, for over two years. Not sure I'll ever
    get it finished!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Untitled-2_6321.jpg]"
  created: '2008-06-19 18:47:54'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "here they are...\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/currentfonts_3446.jpg]"
  created: '2008-06-19 21:13:45'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Wasn\u2019t there also a Sofa Sans and Serif?"
  created: '2008-06-19 22:39:25'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Sofa is Canap\xE9 (top left). I could not include all weights and styles
    in this mini-images, so i chose sans roman and serif italic swash."
  created: '2008-06-19 22:42:05'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Anyone remember that godawful constructivist font I did in Spring 2007? For
    some horrible reason it\u2019s coming back as some sort of deranged unicase with
    alternates. Seriously, I should really be working on the good-looking fonts I
    have in the cooker.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/konstrukt_6256.png]"
  created: '2008-06-20 05:39:01'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "This is my <a href=\"http://justanotherfoundry.com/Herb\"><cite>Herb</cite></a>,
    which I designed during the MA Typeface Design course in <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/12257\">Reading</a>:\r\n\r\n<BR>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://justanotherfoundry.com/Herb/JAF_Herb_preliminary.pdf\">\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Herb_6607.gif]\r\n</a>"
  created: '2008-06-20 09:32:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "There is some great stuff on this thread, but I especially like Herb Tim.
    The really heavy weights look fantastic. It has a certain ancient/modern quality.
    You certainly learned a lot at Reading!\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2008-06-20 10:30:44'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Here's a brief snapshot of the typeface that I'll be finishing up at Reading
    over the next few weeks. No name yet (it isn't named Berlin\u2026).\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dan-in-reading-2008-sample_4164.gif]"
  created: '2008-06-20 15:49:40'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Nick, thanks for your comment!\r\n\r\nDan, that looks quite cool, I like
    the spiky serifs. Is that a condensed version there (Decision times)?"
  created: '2008-06-20 16:42:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Go, Danno!!! a fine looking face cooking there! I like that you named your
    friends and co-workers in the sample. How is it to do Indic script?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-06-20 17:22:24'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Tim:\r\nYes, \"Decision times\" is a Condensed Roman. I also have a Condensed
    Black in the works. But these two condensed fonts, but my normal Black used to
    set \"Berlin\" won't be submitted as part of the project when the deadline arrives.
    I made these for MM work. In the future, I'll expand those along with the rest
    of the family, though.\r\n\r\nChris:\r\nOh, that Akira, Nadine, Otmar & Rob's
    names appear in line 2 is just because I am lazy :(\r\nEarlier this afternoon,
    I sent them a more in-depth look at the font than is posted here, and I reused
    some of those lines for this.\r\n\r\nWorking on an Indic script is tremendous
    fun."
  created: '2008-06-20 17:27:03'
- author:
    name: imageWIS
    picture: 113308
  body: "Sebastian, the \u2018ck\u2019 ligature looks great.\r\n\r\nJon. \r\n"
  created: '2008-06-20 17:34:09'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "I really like the work Reading students have been doing. \r\nI too MUST go
    there someday!\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-20 18:38:08'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Dan! I really like how that is looking! '
  created: '2008-06-20 19:20:19'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "Me too, I think it is great, Dan. This whole thread is wonderful. You are
    a talented bunch!\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2008-06-20 19:26:49'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "If the Reading students don\u2019t stop posting I\u2019m going to leave my
    boyfriend and go to Reading without him."
  created: '2008-06-20 19:31:31'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: James, at Reading you don't have time for a relationship anyway. Just leave
    him stateside, and visit him on holidays. Bringing him along might prove quite
    stressful, as you'd spend so little time together. Several of us this year have
    significant others outside of the country. Until now, it has been great for all
    of us. And it proves for many nice getaways
  created: '2008-06-20 20:22:33'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Dan, I never thought about it that way. I guess I could just tell him to up
    the housekeeping service to coming weekly and tell the neighbor to make sure the
    dogs get fed.
  created: '2008-06-20 21:15:37'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Need to find a way to go to Reading :)\r\nProblems to solve or to harmonise
    with this idea: money, relationships ..."
  created: '2008-06-20 22:04:49'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Tim, Herb is excellent. I agree with previous statements that the heavier
    weight is especially good looking.
  created: '2008-06-20 23:48:14'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Wow, there is some seriously sweet stuff in this thread.... I am knocked out.
  created: '2008-06-21 06:09:45'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: Antonio's figures are awesome! How do you do that?
  created: '2008-06-21 12:11:06'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "Thanks Andr\xE9. I\u2019ve been posting part of the process to make these
    numbers on <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/verbosus/\">my Flickr account</a>.
    They\u2019re not done yet, of course: 6 and 9 are a bit too narrow and I have
    alternate forms in the works. It\u2019s been a fun exercise so far."
  created: '2008-06-21 12:32:03'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "Questo cinque \xE8 veramente bello."
  created: '2008-06-21 13:02:05'
- author:
    name: George Tulloch
    picture: 112396
  body: Hello all! First post from a long-term lurker. I know the world doesn't <em>need</em>
    another interpretation of a French sixteenth-century face, but there's great fun
    in the making of it. The italic is limping a long way behind...[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Guillaume
    150 dpi_5157.jpg]
  created: '2008-06-22 08:52:44'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: "Great thread and great stuff everyone. Particularly liked Dan Reynold's,
    David Sudweeks' and Verbosus' work. Few things knocking around way too long...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1_6470.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/2_6051.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/3_6249.jpg]"
  created: '2008-06-23 14:13:07'
- author:
    name: iffy
    picture: 113881
  body: Good Lord this is some beautiful stuff.
  created: '2008-06-23 21:19:09'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: Agreed. First time through this thread, and I... uh... think I need to go
    wash up.
  created: '2008-06-24 22:03:52'
- author:
    name: degregorio
    picture: 110554
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Comalle-2_5289.gif]\r\nMore info:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/47015\r\nHere
    you can find it:\r\nhttp://www.veer.com/products/typedetail.aspx?image=UMT0000327#about\r\nHere
    you can find the specimen:\r\nhttp://www.veer.com/download/pdf/comalle_specimen.pdf\r\nAnd
    more information, you can found here (in spanish):\r\nhttp://letritas.blogspot.com\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/condell_4888.gif]\r\nNot
    finished still.\r\nWill have 10 weights probably"
  created: '2008-07-03 04:22:22'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "I LOVE LOVE LOVE THAT!!!!\r\n\r\nGOOD JOB!!!"
  created: '2008-07-03 09:23:35'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "You're all killing me with this great work. Every image is another typeface
    I need to lust after or lettering I envy. Great work all around! There are just
    too many to call out individually.\r\n\r\nWhat a great thread."
  created: '2008-07-03 16:11:11'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Most of 'em are good and I like them, but a few works here are lame and lacking
    any \"want it\" vibes.\r\n\r\nIt's really funny how people pretend some of these
    turkeys are golden.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-07-04 14:19:40'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: 'who says anyone''s pretending j a m e s ? '
  created: '2008-07-04 14:37:52'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Uhh\u2013yah, there are \u201Cturkeys\u201D here, but not all of them.\r\n\r\nThen
    again; a \u201Cturkey\u201D to me is not a turkey to you.\r\n\r\nThere are many
    wonder things here\u2014 I\u2019m focused on those. "
  created: '2008-07-04 19:34:17'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Mine <em>does</em> kind have drumsticks. hmm...\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-07-05 00:06:52'
- author:
    name: lapiak
    picture: 111789
  body: "Whisk in progress. I'm still tweaking, tweaking tweaking. Hopefully I'll
    have a complete family by 2009.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/whisk-sample_6722.gif]"
  created: '2008-07-05 05:52:19'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@dux: I'm the person who said people are \"pretending\". That's who says,
    if you want a strait answer. A more convoluted answer&#8212;I use that word in
    relation to people jumping onto bandwagons, because doing that involves pretense,
    a willingness to go along with what others are saying and subscribe to the current
    buzz.\r\n\r\nBut of course I could be wrong about that. Maybe there is no bandwagon
    here and nobody is pretending, but instead voicing praise for what they genuinely
    like and believe are designs of merit. Maybe I'm just using \"pretend\" as a euphemism
    for \"say\".\r\n\r\nMikey, I didn't say all of them are turkeys. I did say \"Most
    of 'em are good and I like them\". I then gave more wordage to the dark side,
    because doing that is part of my nature. I guess your nature is to focus on the
    wonderous things (correct me if I'm wrong). There is room in this universe for
    both kinds of people. You and I, everybody.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-07-05 05:55:20'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "I thought you had retired from being so harsh? You posted a big apology and
    everyone wished you well\u2026"
  created: '2008-07-06 19:00:59'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Yes James, there is room both people.\r\n\r\nBut let\u2019s keep this thread
    positive please. Please guys don\u2019t get into it.\r\n\r\nI want the designers
    to feel free to share whatever their usually secret projects are with us.\r\n\r\nThey
    may not want to share for fear of getting picked on.\r\n\r\nSo let\u2019s not
    criticize in this thread\u2014that\u2019s not what this thread is all about. \r\n\r\nWhen
    these designs are released then we can tear them up later (James). But not here
    please.\r\n\r\nMikey :-)"
  created: '2008-07-06 20:18:58'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Besides, many of these I'm sure are in the Critique forum section. (Mine is,
    as linked in my earlier post.) It is perfectly all right to rip the projects apart
    there, in the interest of improving them, of course
  created: '2008-07-06 20:39:52'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Joachim Lapiak> \r\nWhisk kinda reminds me of a Chapparal Sans. A cheery
    sans- nice.\r\n\r\nMikey :-)"
  created: '2008-07-06 21:58:54'
- author:
    name: smongey
  body: "Based on my love of USB Memory sticks. Mmmm.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/picture_3_4686.png]"
  created: '2008-07-08 15:08:44'
- author:
    name: moretype
    picture: 115378
  body: "Updated to Opentype - releasing soon\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Alwyn_5150.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Faricy_6255.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Hedley_3815.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mic32_5205.gif]"
  created: '2008-07-08 17:35:10'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Great thread! I'm bookmarking it. Lots of great fonts.\r\n\r\nAdios and Pince-nez
    are both winners and Ruben get those fonts finished and out there. "
  created: '2008-07-08 18:27:37'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "I'm working on that last one and will soon post it around here for some critiques.
    Thank you for making me feel like these are worth it, Patty, even if I know they
    could be considered turkeys. That's important, because I know my designs will
    get better and better, but I need some love to shuffle along. :P James Arboghast,
    I hope you shoot me down when I post it, because I do need love but I also like
    balance in my life. ;)\r\nSome more nice stuff!"
  created: '2008-07-09 00:55:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/boulderegopost_3478.png]\r\n\r\nType
    in progress with personality (or disorder)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-09 04:07:47'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "People, I avoided critiquing any one particular font for precisely the reasons
    you've pointed out. This isn't a critique thread and it isn't in the critique
    forum, so critiques of individual faces here would be inappropriate. Even so I
    think it's reasonable to post critical observations of what is going on. Evidently
    that upsets some people, those who are intolerant of dissent within a group.\r\n\r\n@1985:
    <em>I thought you had retired from being so harsh? You posted a big apology and
    everyone wished you well\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nThat's a simplistic summary of what
    happened, and misleading. I only retired from being Typophile's moral and civil
    conduct moderator. Rather different from retiring \"...from being so harsh\".
    Nothing is what it seems.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-07-09 15:00:19'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "That's really not the point, James. I think the main problem people will
    see in your first post will be that you weren't forthright and that you were implying
    something bad mostly about people and not exactly about the designs (although,
    of course, you did say some were turkeys). I think it would have been less of
    a problem if you had actually said you found this one or that one \u201Cnot as
    good\u201D (of course, you could say you found them complete rubbish) or if you
    asked someone \u201Care you serious, do you really like THIS?!\u201D. But you
    said nothing like that; instead, you chose to imply that some people (not even
    mentioning any names) were not being honest to other people and/or to themselves.
    That's a pretty bold statement that could've been taken harshly, a lot more so
    than what actually happened; fortunately, we all seem to be quite civilized and
    almost phlegmatic, which, come to think about it, I'm not sure is that good. :P\r\nAnyway,
    everything's fine, nobody made a big deal out of it and it really wasn't one.
    But I do want you to criticize my designs, because you seem like a guy with stuff
    to say! I give you <cite>carte blanche</cite>. :P\r\n\r\nruD"
  created: '2008-07-09 19:48:17'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "By going against the flow I put myself in contempt of the majority. I apologize
    for that. This thread shouldn't be about me. The best strategy for dealing with
    it is to, 1) Turn the other cheek, let my comments stand and continue with discussion
    of the real topic, 2) Those who want to criticize me should start another thread
    RfC: is Arbo forthright?\r\n\r\nRfC stands for Request for Comment. Separate the
    moderation process from typo discussion please.\r\n\r\nPersonal remarks about
    Typophilers as people don't belong at Typophile, or frankly, anywhere on the internet.
    That's why I wasn't \"forthright\", as you put it. I avoided making remarks about
    any one person. In summary: the world invites deception, and I am very keen to
    point out when it happens.\r\n\r\n<em>I think it would have been less of a problem
    if you had actually said you found this one or that one \u201Cnot as good\u201D
    (of course, you could say you found them complete rubbish) or if you asked someone
    \u201Care you serious, do you really like THIS?!\u201D. </em>\r\n\r\nIf I'd said
    something like that it would have been a much bigger problem. It's not a critique
    thread and critical remarks about individual faces just don't belong here. Picking
    on an individual font or an individual person would be hitting below the belt.\r\n\r\nPlease
    go on posting fonts and with discussion of the fonts.\r\n\r\n<em>But I do want
    you to criticize my designs, because you seem like a guy with stuff to say!</em>\r\n\r\nSorry,
    but I can't fit font critiques into my schedule any more.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-07-10 06:46:22'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: great font dezcom. The id weight has the feel of a 'Blur' effect. I'm unsure
    as to whether the ego weight has a teutonic (late 19th century humanist-geometric)
    feel or that is a result of it being partially set in german.
  created: '2008-07-10 11:48:34'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Chris I really like this Boulder font. It has plenty of eccentric aspects
    or features but it holds together really well. I could read a whole article in
    that! My hat is off to you!
  created: '2008-07-10 11:58:40'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "Some works in progress. <em>Orla</em> has been in proooooooogress for three
    years or so, <em>Caisa</em> is quite recent. Inspired by Voskens/Kis/Zinck and
    the sauce hollandois as some may notice. \r\nProper spacing &c this summer!\r\n\r\n\u0192\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/zippo_6029.gif]"
  created: '2008-07-10 16:06:13'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: Boulder rocks! Great stuff Chris!
  created: '2008-07-10 17:47:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Luke, Eben and Jos,\r\nThanks for your kind remarks about Boulder!\r\nLuke,
    There was no particular intention to be teutonic. I used German text from the
    Freud website. Given that my typography teachers during the 1960s were from Ulm
    and Basel, I am not surprised that some of that feel surfaces in my work occasionally.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS:
    Jos, Rock on! :-)"
  created: '2008-07-11 20:40:53'
- author:
    name: dontbugme
    picture: 110809
  body: "Some beautiful sans on display here. I especially love Lavinia Sans. And
    Capsa is simply to die for. After Leitura, yet another serif face that has me
    captivated.\r\n\r\nBtw,\r\n\r\n> Sorry, but I can\u2019t fit font critiques into
    my schedule any more.\r\n\r\nWow. What a pompous individual you are. Being negative
    simply for the sake of it. I'll refrain from giving you any more attention since
    that's what seems to be the intent of your pointless posts."
  created: '2008-07-12 11:24:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Lovely work Chris. I think the new ''ego'' version really works well. It
    keeps the punch of the original--now ''id''--but is probably of wider application. '
  created: '2008-07-12 11:34:58'
- author:
    name: ZUZ3L
    picture: 115403
  body: "I LOVE THIS SITE!!! :-)\r\n\r\nMy favorites are: Whisk, Berto, Bubber, Engrez,
    Pinup loves, Agilita and Museo ...\r\n\r\nI'm looking forward to buy your stuff
    guys... :-)"
  created: '2008-07-12 14:16:52'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "Thanks Kenneth. I'm hoping to release Museo Sans within the next few months.\r\n\r\n<cite>PS:
    Jos, Rock on! :-)</cite>\r\nThanks Chris! U2 :-)"
  created: '2008-07-14 11:27:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!!! at least you didn't call the Police or throw Stones at me, Jos :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-14 16:50:46'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "Hahaha :-) Chris, you know I would NEVER do that. \r\nI would rather eat
    Red Hot Chili Peppers and turn Deep Purple.  :-)"
  created: '2008-07-14 21:16:44'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "Not a typeface, but some custom lettering started for a re-branding idea.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/scripty_4630.png]\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/techy_4488.png]"
  created: '2008-07-14 22:24:26'
- author:
    name: doo
    picture: 115433
  body: "Ninfa in progress\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ninfa copy_3433.jpg]"
  created: '2008-07-15 21:56:49'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "ninfa looks like a cross between rumba and humana... very nice, especially
    the bold\r\n\r\nMikey :-)"
  created: '2008-07-16 02:09:50'
- author:
    name: ewalthert
    picture: 112324
  body: "I'm still working on that one, but today (19. November) till 10 AM PST you
    can get a pre-version by donating to <a href='http://www.dublab.com/protondrive/'>dublab</a>.
    \r\nAnd it will come with a folder of sound-files with the same appearance.\r\n\r\nIt
    really is a fight with the restrictions of sound-waves, as there are no negative
    forms!\r\n\r\nIt was originally created for the audio-visual exhibition <a href='http://www.intoinfinity.org/'>Into
    Infinity</a>.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SonicWaves_abc600_6535.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SoundEditor_5500.png]\r\n\r\nAnd
    sure there is Agile which still has to find an end!"
  created: '2008-11-19 09:33:58'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Edgar, while I think the type you post is very nice, you can also go too far
    with the advertisement. This is the 3rd thread I've seen it in already...
  created: '2008-11-19 17:41:34'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/542_5008.jpg]\r\n\r\n... if the upcoming
    hinting and kerning of the font is just as crappy. The thread was after all titled
    \"latest\" and not \"proudest.\""
  created: '2008-11-19 21:15:21'
- author:
    name: Pieter van Rosmalen
    picture: 109564
  body: "Time for round 2?\r\n:)\r\n\r\nPieter"
  created: '2010-10-06 15:42:05'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I\u2019ll post a new thread!"
  created: '2010-10-06 16:12:15'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Pieter: See [[http://typophile.com/node/74955|here]]. '
  created: '2010-10-06 16:25:54'
date: '2008-06-16 06:06:17'
title: Your latest designs?

---
