---
author:
  name: maltelunden
  picture: 113747
body: "Arial seems to be one of the most widely hated typefaces. I'm not sure if it's
  because people regard it as a perversion of the holy Helvetica, or because of the
  intrinsic ugliness of the typeface.\r\n\r\nSo, we're gonna find out. Name your favourite
  bad feature of Arial!"
comments:
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: "My favorite (and by \"favorite\" I mean \"least favorite\") is the ridiculous
    leg on the uppercase R. It looks like it's doing the Hokey Pokey \r\n\r\nNow put
    your right foot in,\r\nYour right foot out,\r\nRight foot in\r\nThen you shake
    it all about.\r\nAnd then you do the Hokey Pokey\r\nTurn yourself around,\r\nThat's
    what it's all about.\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-17 19:52:52'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: ">Arial seems to be one of the most widely hated typefaces.\r\n\r\nNot for
    me, i think it's a useful, (very) good hinted, fully developed and adequate designed
    screenface. Big Problems occur when it set to small! \r\nGenerally it looks disgusting,
    when printed out via \"print website\". Nothing more, nothing less. Aesthetically
    i prefer it over Helvetica on Win, even Cleartype enabled, say 5 times more!"
  created: '2008-06-17 20:42:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: The fact that it (and Helvetica) get mentioned so frequently on Typophile.
  created: '2008-06-17 21:01:21'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "That it\u2019s usually used by people who just don\u2019t have a clue. When
    I notice Arial, it\u2019s not because it\u2019s a bad font, it\u2019s because
    it\u2019s been tracked in to produce lines of solid black copy, used in bold where
    it should be lighter, stretched or compressed by sign shops too cheap to buy type,
    and so on. "
  created: '2008-06-17 21:21:15'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: I never have seen Arial used in professional printed material with a "design
    aspect". So what the ****?!
  created: '2008-06-17 21:43:32'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Malte,\r\n\r\nDidn't realize that shooting fish in a barrel was a popular
    sport in Denmark. ;-) \r\n"
  created: '2008-06-17 22:21:49'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: "Yes, Arial may in some sense be seen as a perversion of Helvetica, but I
    think the primary reason there is so much rage against it is simply that it is
    a default, and therefore carries with it a sense of unprofessionalism. Whenever
    I see Arial or Arial Black used in a design, my initial thought is that the person
    designing it did it in PowerPoint and didn't bother to change the font from Arial.\r\n\r\nWould
    Arial attract so much designer rage if it hadn't been a default? Maybe, maybe
    not. I've seen Arial used effectively (usually with all-caps), but I've seen it
    used ineffectively and unprofessionally so many times that even a decent use of
    it sets off something in my head. There are very few times I see Arial where I
    don't think that Helvetica would have been a better choice (which is not to say
    that Helvetica would have been the best choice, but still better than Arial).\r\n\r\nWhat
    we need to ask ourselves is, what if Helvetica had been a default font in MS Office
    instead? What about Meta? Futura? Now that Verdana is a default in PowerPoint,
    whenever I see a presentation set in it I immediately think that it looks unprofessional,
    regardless of how well-designed the rest of the presentation is.\r\n\r\nI don't
    get this reaction to Cambria and Calibri yet, but I imagine that we'll start having
    similar feelings towards them about 10 years from now.\r\n\r\nThat said, the leg
    of the R in Arial is absurd and bothers me to no end. Also, the t and the r."
  created: '2008-06-17 22:42:02'
- author:
    name: maltelunden
    picture: 113747
  body: "James, I was thinking something similar (that is, that the aversion may be
    caused by the frequent bad usage, not the badness of the type itself). DrDoc has
    the same point, and I think his question might be the right one to ask there:
    what if it hadn't been set as a default?\r\n\r\nPersonally, I don't get a very
    negative reaction when I see Arial \u2013 honestly, I might ignore a good part
    of those \"badly applied\" cases as well. I really do dislike the leg of the R
    though..\r\n\r\nA better example might have been Comic Sans actually. This typeface
    is another one of those widely hated typefaces (even in the non-design community).
    But this aversion may be  connected primarily with the bad usage (at least, for
    me). Interestingly, I've read that it is very useable for dyslexics, because of
    the uniqueness of every letter. That might explain some of it's popularity, because
    it might be easier to distinguish each letter (not saying that the general public
    is dyslexic btw)\r\n\r\nSii, I didn't have the patience to learn the other kind
    of fishing. It's too ambigious and unpredictable. Plus, we have learned to dislike
    disagreements in my country. Very good for our NNP.\r\n\r\nMalte"
  created: '2008-06-18 08:42:34'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Wasn't \"the most hated typeface\" used to be considered Comic Sans? \r\n\r\n;-)\r\n\r\nSzabolcs"
  created: '2008-06-18 10:58:48'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: Comic Sans is the font of choice for most non-typographic types (???) because
    they see most serif fonts as identical, and sans fonts as identical. CS is sufficiently
    different from other Sans that it gets chosen as "something different". We can
    all be happy that Algerian has not been adopted as a "something different" in
    the serif side.
  created: '2008-06-18 14:39:29'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Who's seen a whole book (not a kids' book, but a proper grown-up text) set
    in Comic Sans? ... \r\nThe 2nd edition of \"[[http://www.amazon.co.uk/Royal-Road-Card-Magic/dp/0572029187/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1213797440&sr=8-1|The
    Royal Road to Card Magic]]\" uses CS throughout! Perhaps Vince C should have a
    quiet word with the people at Foulsham :-D\r\n\r\n(The first edition, BTW, used
    a more traditional book font!)\r\n______________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2008-06-18 15:05:25'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "<cite>Very good for our NNP.</cite>\r\n\r\nNNP? Net National Product? The
    total national annual production of goods and services, minus total bads and disservices?"
  created: '2008-06-18 16:54:26'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: Arial looks nice on the screen.
  created: '2008-06-18 18:02:01'
- author:
    name: maltelunden
    picture: 113747
  body: cuttlefish, yes that was what I meant. The joke might have been a bit too
    cryptic, on a second thought.
  created: '2008-06-18 19:52:35'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "The price. \r\n\r\nIt's nice to have a free font that does the job on-screen.
    It's not so nice that this contributes to its use in print. "
  created: '2008-06-18 19:58:59'
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: "I suppose Arial would get a little more respect if it wasn't generally the
    default font for many users. In that context, it has a lot going against it:\r\n\r\n\u2022
    It's used in design settings by people who aren't designers\r\n\r\n\u2022 It's
    used by those same people in software that makes it very difficult to make anything
    look good. Word and Powerpoint don't have kerning turned on by default, so no
    matter what font you use, it's not going to be pretty.\r\n\r\nIt would never live
    down being thought of as a cheap knock-off, though."
  created: '2008-06-18 21:31:01'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Yeah, the upcurl on the lc a bowl. That and of course the leg in the R and
    the overall slopiness on it's strokes.\r\n\r\nTiffany made a very funny graphic
    with the uc R of Arial and Helvetica a couple of years ago for Speakup.\r\n\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2008-06-18 21:48:01'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Did I?
  created: '2008-06-18 22:26:40'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: Any typesetter replaces Arial by Helvetica, that I know of. Most prints with
    Arial in it are products of MS Word and Publihser, along with Power Point. As
    for it being so hated, it may be because there will always be a copy of it somewhere,
    ready to print out.
  created: '2008-06-18 23:04:42'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "<cite>Any typesetter replaces Arial by Helvetica</cite> \r\n\r\nSounds reasonable,
    I read somewhere that Arial was designed to fit the same space that Helvetica.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2008-06-19 05:57:22'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Tiff, I guess so... It looks like Arial was asking forgiveness to Helvetica.
    There is also a funny one on IBM ahead.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.underconsideration.com/speakup/word_it/parody/parody.html\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2008-06-19 05:59:04'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "The R leg and the sloped top of the t are the easiest ways to tell Arial
    from Helvetica, which I think is why many people have a negative reaction to them,
    because when you see them, that's usually the exact moment where you think \"ugh,
    that's Arial\". But I don't think those choices are inherently bad design. They
    would be fine choices for a typeface that isn't trying to knock off something
    else. In fact, if one could judge from a blank slate devoid of Helvetica's decades
    of cultural context, I would say the extreme squareness of Helvetica's R is the
    more dubious decision.\r\n\r\nHowever, in reality, Arial's R loses simply because
    it is part of Arial, which as a whole is inferior. Not merely because it isn't
    Helvetica, but because you can tell it was thrown together with very little care
    in regard to proportion.\r\n\r\n<em>My</em> greatest peeve with Arial is the way
    the ends of such curves as c are <em>nearly, but not quite</em> horizontal. You
    know how you can unbend a paper clip, but if you try to restore it to its original
    shape, you can't get it <em>exactly</em> the way it was? For this reason, Arial
    looks like someone did that to it."
  created: '2008-06-19 08:01:09'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "@H\xE9ctor I completely forgot about that. :^>"
  created: '2008-06-19 08:03:57'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "\" I read somewhere that Arial was designed to fit the same space that Helvetica.
    \"\r\nPeople replace Arial by Helvetica, if it doesn't change the flow of text
    in subsequent pages. If am asked to replace Arial by Helvetica in a 64 page book,
    I will have to say, \"that is extra\". It doesn't occupy the exact same space
    in some cases."
  created: '2008-06-19 12:14:02'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Your Favourite Bad Feature of Arial\"\r\nThat it exists.\r\n\r\n\" It doesn\u2019t
    occupy the exact same space in some cases.\"\r\nIt would need to duplicate Helvetica's
    kerning table to do so, which is, I think, one cleptocratic step too far for even
    Microsoftic Mankind.:)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-06-19 12:27:52'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> You know how you can unbend a paper clip,</em>\r\nBrilliant metaphor!"
  created: '2008-06-19 13:08:28'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: 'Just for the record, I hate Bank Gothic more than Arial. '
  created: '2008-06-19 17:43:49'
- author:
    name: P A Hardy
  body: "First posting - hello.\r\n\r\nI have _no_ typographic expertise, just an
    interest. Arial & Helvetica are of course ubiquitous but somehow as a layman I
    feel irritated by Arial but not Helvetica. Perhaps it's a learned \"type snobbery\"?
    The R bothers me also, not just the strange leg but the bowl seems too wide/elongated.\r\nOf
    course here in the UK, Gill Sans is very widespread & has a \"quirky\" R, but
    I still like it. Don't know why. I acknowledge cerulean's point that Helvetica's
    R is out of keeping with the rest of the face. The BBC News mixes Helvetica &
    Gill Sans all the time, but I'm getting over it :)\r\n\r\nArial's a lacks something
    compared to Helv, but the ubiquity bothers me most. In the UK health service it
    is actually recommended for printed communications, which irks me. \r\nBut the
    British Medical Association delivered a petition with 1M patient's signatures
    to the UK Parliament this month, and the front cover appeared to be printed in
    Comic Sans MS, which was about the design low point of the month for me.\r\n\r\nPaul"
  created: '2008-06-19 18:33:16'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I don't think kerning is the issue, as I understand Helvetica metrics were
    a moving target even back in 1991. And beyond the basic char-set no attempt was
    made to match  Helvetica widths - in fact the version of Arial in Vista (and latest
    Mac OS) has many characters not in any version of Helvetica. And as mentioned
    elsewhere the target for metrically compatible fonts is now Arial, not Helvetica
    - Albany, Liberation Sans to name but two.  \r\n\r\nBut the kerning issue does
    raise an interesting question as to if its legally possible to make a metrically
    compatible version of a modern multilingual OpenType font where metrics, class
    kerning and OpenType features would need to be matched. \r\n"
  created: '2008-06-20 00:39:06'
- author:
    name: nvhladek
    picture: 112094
  body: "When I was in college, my favorite (bad) feature of Arial was its metrics:
    namely it could turn your 12 page paper typed in Garamond 12pt into the 15 page
    paper that the professor wanted.  (I was a Classics major, and few, if any, profs
    cared about the font used.)\r\n\r\nTo weigh in on the discussion about why Arial
    is so hated, the lore, at least, is that Microsoft didn't want to pay royalties
    to Linotype like Apple did for Helvetica and so commissioned Arial.  (Can anyone
    verify this?)  The problem, of course, is that Arial is a poor replacement for
    Helvetica, hence, designers' white-hot ire.\r\n\r\nConsidered on its own, Arial
    is functional type.  Granted, as many have said before, its 'R', 'C' and 't' are
    completely inadequate and unnerving.  But it will do in a pinch.  It has no place
    in a professional design, but for everyday tasks, it is not unacceptable.\r\n\r\n--\r\nNick
    Hladek"
  created: '2008-06-20 04:36:25'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">To weigh in on the discussion about why Arial is so hated\r\n\r\nI don't
    think that's the reason - after all metrically compatible fonts were/are nothing
    new. I think the problem people have is that Arial is far more popular/ubiquitous,
    to the extent that Apple of all people, licensed it from Microsoft. \r\n"
  created: '2008-06-20 05:41:01'
- author:
    name: filip blazek
    picture: 110363
  body: "For me, there are two big problems of Arial: kerning and diacritics. \r\n<strong>Kerning</strong>
    There is no kerning of accented glyphs in Arial. It looks horrible when Arial
    is used for setting Czech language, for example the name TA\u0164\xC1NA looks
    like TA \u0164 \xC1NA.\r\n<strong>Diacritics</strong> The shape of several accents
    is very poor. The position of (comma-like) caron in the 'tcaron' glyph is not
    acceptable. It creates a big gap between 'tcaron' and next glyph. \r\nYou can
    compare Arial with Linotype Helvetica CE. (Although not perfect, at least acceptable).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arial_5909.gif]"
  created: '2008-06-20 09:47:10'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Sadly it''s impossible to fix the most popular font in the world without
    breaking billions of documents. Best way to address this is start over - and you
    guys get to pick the name "Arial Pro" or "Arial New" - or should I just stick
    with Calibri? '
  created: '2008-06-20 14:12:44'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>you guys get to pick the name \u201CArial Pro\u201D or \u201CArial
    New\u201D - or should I just stick with Calibri?</cite> \r\n\r\n-with tongue planted
    firmly in cheek- Arial Neue. "
  created: '2008-06-20 14:34:14'
- author:
    name: T.
  body: "Can I name a good feature as well?\r\n\r\n[[http://www.rails.nl/new/index.php|Rails]]
    uses Arial quite nicely.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/R0012609_4253.JPG]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/R0012610_4635.JPG]"
  created: '2008-06-20 16:52:33'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Graphic1_5494.jpg]\r\nArial Black
    has bad curves. \r\n\r\n\r\nOh, and name the new version Zarial, and that'll be
    the end of it.\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=- "
  created: '2008-06-20 20:12:05'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I like it - I beleive there would be far more Zapfino abuse if it started
    with \"A\"\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2008-06-20 23:20:07'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Is it overkill to post a link to Mark Simonson's <a href=\"http://www.ms-studio.com/articles.html\">\"The
    Scourge of Arial\"</a> here?\r\n\r\nNo one's mentioned it so far, but it is a
    great essay on the typeface we love to hate.  :-)"
  created: '2008-06-21 00:31:11'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>No one\u2019s mentioned it so far, but it is a great essay on the typeface
    we love to hate. :-)</cite>\r\n\r\nReally, cause I always thought Comic Sans was
    the one we hated. Boy, we're as bad as a bunch of politicians, flip-flopping back
    and forth. \r\n\r\nI think we admire Arial. Kinda like G.I. Joe admires Cobra
    Commander. It's his unflinching ability to pick himself (and his troops) back
    up time and time again, and continue to fight. Always with the eye on the prize.\r\n\r\nCourse,
    Arial succeeded where Cobra failed, what with it's near world domination and all."
  created: '2008-06-21 01:34:32'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: I think the key distinction between Comic Sans and Arial is that even laypeople
    (those not in the design community) love to hate Comic Sans. Most people outside
    of the design community can't tell the difference between one sans serif and another,
    let alone Helvetica and Arial. Almost everyone knows that Comic Sans is rarely
    a good choice; they don't know that about Arial.
  created: '2008-06-21 03:56:34'
- author:
    name: Lantz
    picture: 115246
  body: "I had a boss once who fancied herself a graphic designer, and she made all
    the menus (it was a bowling alley) and gave each menu item its own Microsoft Clip
    Art of the product. So for a hot dog it would say HOT DOG (she didn't use lowercase,
    and she generally spoke in all caps too) and next to the words would be a helpful
    picture of what a hot dog looked like. \r\n\r\nNaturally, to give it more of a
    classy upscale look (she was always trying to \"trend up\" our brand image) she
    went for the all-business look of Times New Roman, with the bold button selected
    for emphasis. On the side she had a business making wedding picture montage DVDs
    set to oldies, complete with fades and wipes to cut from picture to picture.\r\n\r\nPeople
    like this need Arial when going for that more modern feel.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2008-06-21 07:02:16'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">laypeople (those not in the design community) love to hate Comic Sans.\r\n\r\nYou
    are joking, right?"
  created: '2008-06-21 16:23:32'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: "Si: No, I'm not. I should probably have expressed myself better, though.
    I know people who can't tell you the difference between Arial and Helvetica who
    proudly sport \"ban comic sans\" shirts and hats and complain about its overuse
    and how terrible it is. I'm not saying that everyone hates Comic Sans; I'm saying
    that all sorts of people \u2014 not just those passionate about type \u2014 hate
    Comic Sans."
  created: '2008-06-21 19:15:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "for sure. If you're saying that it's easy to identify and over-used - I can't
    disagree. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-21 19:42:31'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Isn\u2019t there some way that you guys can use all those crazy DRM systems
    in Windows to limit Arial use to only opening and printing existing documents?
    \r\n\r\nNeue Arial does sound fun, tho\u2026"
  created: '2008-06-21 20:14:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "This isn't the iPhone - you can't tell people what they can and can't do
    ;-) \r\n\r\nHowever the transition from Arial to Calibri isn't yet complete -
    still have some way to go and a few tricks up our sleeves. "
  created: '2008-06-21 21:26:12'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I bet if the MPAA lawyers claimed to own Arial it would get locked down in
    a jiff ;)
  created: '2008-06-21 23:09:01'
date: '2008-06-17 19:43:07'
title: Your Favourite Bad Feature of Arial

---
