---
author:
  name: SuperUltraFabulous
  picture: 111522
body: "I was thinking it would be smarter for me to buy an iPod off of eBay to save
  some money. I\u2019m not so sure of that now considering there are so many counterfeits.\r\n\r\nApple
  only uses Myriad so what kinda junk is this?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bb82_1_4053.JPG]\r\n\r\nhttp://cgi.ebay.com/Apple-Ipod-3rd-generation-Nano-8gb-Video-Mp3-player-NEW_W0QQitemZ150259970523QQcmdZViewItem?hash=item150259970523&_trkparms=39%3A2%7C65%3A15&_trksid=p3286.c0.m14#ebayphotohosting\r\n\r\nMikey
  :-/"
comments:
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: AT least it's spelt right...
  created: '2008-06-20 02:49:17'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: "The apple proportions are all f'd up, too. (huge bite, weird bite alignment,
    funny leaf...)\r\n\r\nCome to think of it, I think that's Adobe's Myriad, not
    Apple's custom Myriad."
  created: '2008-06-20 03:06:10'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "There's a presumably legit image here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.answers.com/topic/ipod-nano?cat=technology\r\n\r\nImages
    of the latest iPod Shuffle here, for comparison purposes:\r\n\r\nhttp://the-gadgeteer.com/review/apple_ipod_shuffle_2nd_gen_\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-20 05:23:03'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: The text for "iPod" isn't as bold as it should be, either.
  created: '2008-06-20 05:25:46'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Nice doily though. LOL\r\n______________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2008-06-20 13:23:14'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I was thinking it would be smarter for me to buy an iPod off of eBay to
    save some money\"\r\n\r\nSmart people don't buy electronics off of eBay. ;0)\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-20 15:07:06'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: We got a Chinese knockoff iPhone last year (our Shanghai developers sent it).
    The best part was the Apple logo on the back had the leaf pointing the wrong direction.
    (And no, there was no Myriad in sight.)
  created: '2008-06-20 19:21:20'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Better images of the real deal:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.pocketables.net/2007/09/unboxing-the-3g.html "
  created: '2008-06-21 01:57:39'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "It seems there is a culture of dishonesty in China\u2014well, at least when
    it comes to intellectual property anyway. It steams from communism right?"
  created: '2008-06-21 02:33:25'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "There is dishonesty in capitalist countries too, Mikey, but that doesn't
    mean it comes from capitalism.\r\n\r\nLet's face it, some people are dishonest.
    I've been burned buying CDs on eBay, and the CD was coming from someone in the
    U.S.!"
  created: '2008-06-21 03:33:03'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Mikey, a culture of dishonesty surrounding I.P exists in America and England
    too, and Russia, Australia, etcetera. In China the communist thing may encourage
    it, or maybe not, but in the end I think dishonesty is a human trait, part of
    the human condition. Side note: Martina Navratilova emigrated from communist Poland
    (or whatever country it was) to the U.S, and when pro-communist westerners hassle
    her about it she says to them, \"If you think communism is so great, why don't
    you go live in a communist country?\" As you'd expect they never have an answer
    for that.\r\n\r\n@Oh Ricky you're so fine: <em>Let\u2019s face it, some people
    are dishonest. I\u2019ve been burned buying CDs on eBay, and the CD was coming
    from someone in the U.S.!</em>\r\n\r\nThis is why. This is why I don't buy any
    kind of stuff from Ebay. I get a much better deal on music CDs from a chain of
    second-hand CD retail stores here in Melbourne, <em>Dixons</em>. They sell used
    CDs for about half the brand new retail price, and there never is any quality
    problem.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-06-21 11:16:58'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: "I remember seeing a documentary on TV. It was about a asian country. I forgot
    most of what I saw in it, but, something called my attention: There was a radio
    atop of a table, sort of in a corner of the frame with a window in the background,
    showing the paisage after it, it had a \"brand\":\r\n\r\n\" T O X I \""
  created: '2008-06-21 11:37:16'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>This is why. This is why I don\u2019t buy any kind of stuff from Ebay.</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    just have to check who is selling the item on eBay. If the seller has alot of
    positive ratings, then usually it hould be pretty safe to buy from that person.\r\nTwo
    friends of mine have bought their iPhone off of eBay (importing it from the US
    to The Netherlands), without any problems whatsoever. They just looked for someone
    with very good ratings."
  created: '2008-06-21 18:32:25'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "I find it easier and quicker to purchase goods of most kinds, especially
    electronics, locally from people I can look in the eye and quickly decide if they're
    trying to rip me off or not. More to the point, regarding Ebay, having to check
    out a seller's ratings, then making the purchase thru PayPal and only PayPal (no
    choice, it's a monopoly and PayPal must be paying Ebay a big stack of money for
    the monopoly), that's a hassle too, and a hegemony I refuse to participate in.\r\n\r\nRegardless,
    I don't have a use for things like an iPhone. In my <em>art of living</em> lifestyle
    devices like that are impractical toys that break easily and require batteries
    and usually get in the way of communicating. For example, for business, in my
    day job, I use a mobile phone entirely at my agent's expense. My agent owns the
    phone and pays for it. If it breaks, not my problem, agent's problem. Outside
    of work hours I don't have a mobile phone because <em>I don't want to</em> be
    contactable at any time any place. That's because I'm a very private kind of guy.
    Nothing to do with being a so-called \"ludite\".\r\n\r\nWhat else? What other
    stuff can you buy at Ebay? The kind of furniture I buy has to be inspected close-up
    to ascertain its authenticity. If I want a replica wingback chair made in the
    19th century, it's typically a replica of a chair made in the 18th century. Buying
    a chair like that from Ebay is possible, but they're hard to find and I can think
    of dozens of reasons not to buy it from Ebay. I have to touch it and pick it up,
    inspect underneath, sit on it and go over every inch of wood and fabric before
    deciding to purchase. It isn't possible to feel the structural integrity of a
    piece of fine furniture online. I have to physically pick it and feel how much
    \"give\" is in the frame.\r\n\r\nWhat else? Books. I buy a lot of books from second
    hand dealers who I've gotten to know over several decades. People I know I can
    trust, who I don't have to check out. They call me up and tell me when they've
    got stock they think I may be interested in, because they know me and my literary
    tastes, and I know them and their retailing philosophy.\r\n\r\nWhat else? It's
    much more fun going outside, walking down the street and chatting with living
    souls, people I can touch and trade jokes with. Stop for a coffee on the way.
    I can trade jokes with people at Ebay too, but it's not satisfying the way it
    is in real time.\r\n\r\nWhat else? I enjoy a simple, uncomplicated life, relatively
    free of clutter and noise, with as much technology as is useful and no more. It's
    about the art of living and the challenge of not giving in to the maelstrom of
    technology, newness for its' own sake, no thanks, not for me. If I can find ways
    to avoid visiting yet another website with a glarey interface and more visual
    pollution than you can shake a stick at, I find ways of avoiding them. Because
    that's the kind of person I am. \r\n\r\nNone of this is to say Ebay or the internet
    is bad, or buying stuff online is bad, or the lifestyle choices you guys are making
    lack merit. Nothing like that. It's about what makes sense. If the cheapest I
    can buy a DVD of Time Bandits from Amazon is $10 plus shipping for a second hand
    disc and I have to wait two weeks for it to get here; and I can get a new copy
    of Time Bandits on DVD for $10 from the HMV store in Melbourne city center, no
    shipping charge and no hassle, and I get it from a living person with a smile
    and a paper receipt, even take it home and watch it the same day (golly-gosh-me,
    wonders never cease ; ^ ) I'll take the excercise and wear out my Italian shoes
    a tiny bit more, because that, my dear typophiles, is part of <em>the art of living</em>.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-06-21 22:18:38'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Give at year or two and some fancy machine will wear out your shoes, pour
    coffee and chemically produce the dirty ol' smell of books and second hand record
    store owners. It'll even project a glaring smile on your 300 dpi video googles.\r\n\r\nSeriously
    though: I'll buy you a coffee if our ways ever cross."
  created: '2008-06-23 14:21:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "On the issue of dishonesty, yes there are plenty of dishonest business people
    in every country, quick to make money however they can. \r\n\r\nThe difference
    in China is that the Chinese government apparently has a policy of not enforcing
    intellectual property laws. When I was in China two years ago there there was
    pirated stuff everywhere. \r\n\r\nHowever there is vigorous enforcement of the
    government's own property rights to the Olympic souvenir stuff. Apparently some
    people are getting around the government even on this, but the piracy is sway
    down, apparently down to levels something like in the West. \r\n\r\nAlso I think
    I heard that for some big foreign companies the government, under pressure, is
    starting to enforce intellectual property rights. Perhaps someone who knows more
    about this can tell us the current state of the violations. \r\n\r\nThis is a
    grave problem where the Chinese government has been derelict in its duties under
    international law, and a lot of people are pressing them to change. I'm not in
    favor of any boycott, but don't let them off the hook. \r\n\r\nThere are a lot
    of people here producing intellectual property, and I bet they aren't getting
    anything out of China, with the possible exception of the mega companies like
    Microsoft, Apple, and Adobe. I gather that the FSU is also a huge problem.  "
  created: '2008-06-23 14:52:09'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "@James:\r\n\r\n<cite> PayPal must be paying Ebay a big stack of money for
    the monopoly</cite>\r\n\r\nPaypal is owned by Ebay - bought for US$1.5bn back
    in 2002.\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-23 15:04:30'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: If you buy a lot of stuff online, [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=roWwhWFlmrI&feature=related|watch
    this,]] :).
  created: '2008-06-23 15:21:26'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: "Read this about PayPal:\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Something_Awful#Hurricane_Katrina_charity"
  created: '2008-06-23 19:36:04'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "I realize how what I wrote there might look to some people&#8212;like a ranty
    rave from a determined old-skooler or neo luddite. What can I say to balance it?
    I use computers all day, I love DVDs and watch heaps of them, I'm mad keen on
    spacecraft and rocket technology, and for a decade I worked in music production
    and as a professional audio electronics engineer. In partnership with my personal
    assistant I've designed, engineered and manufactured electronic products with
    my own brain and my bare hands.\r\n\r\nI know first-hand why electronic devices
    fail, and what happens at the retail level when it occurs. That taught me to avoid
    buying electronic goods second-hand wherever possbile. Mainly it's about having
    a new product warranty. You don't get a warranty with second-hand electronics,
    but they break as easily as new ones.\r\n\r\nI do like technology. I'm fascinated
    by it, but skeptical of the value of much of it to the consumer and wary of having
    too much tech in my domestic life.\r\n\r\nEbay owning PayPal is even worse than
    the scenario I imagined. As the web evolves ownership of its major portals and
    services has become concentrated in a handful of companies. Ebay is one of the
    largest sellers of goods, and payments to it are processed by a company it owns.
    That's unsettlingly close to The Institute of Going a Bit Red in Hel Sinki.\r\n\r\n@frode
    frank:<em>Give at year or two and some fancy machine will wear out your shoes,
    pour coffee and chemically produce the dirty ol\u2019 smell of books and second
    hand record store owners. It\u2019ll even project a glaring smile on your 300
    dpi video googles.</em>\r\n\r\nI'll be first to put an axe thru it. I'm kidding.
    I look forward to having that cuppee of cafe with you one day Frode :^)\r\n\r\n<em>And
    it's a reckless world,\r\nThat lets itself be guided by its tools\r\nBut what
    our eyes can't see we believe\r\nThe truth is not for fools\r\nIs there nothing
    between us but plastic and wire?\r\nWill some modern invention prove you a liar?\r\nAll
    the time you were saying, \"This is it.\"\r\nIt was that,\r\nAnd you didn't get
    that scratch from the cat\r\n\r\nI'll be stripped to the skin\r\nYou'll be stripped
    to the bone\r\nAnd we'll all say no\r\nTo the picture phone</em>\r\n-- words by
    Jeanette Therese Obstoj\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-06-24 11:45:36'
- author:
    name: fallenartist
    picture: 111868
  body: "Dishonesty..? Do you mean companies using the cheapest labour available on
    this planet?\r\n\r\n__\r\nAL"
  created: '2008-06-24 16:30:37'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "William Berkson has encapsulated exactly what I meant. Yes, I know people
    from all over the world can be bad or good. In the case of  China, I think copying
    some else\u2019s work is okay there. At the personal level all the way to the
    governmental. That is what I meant by \u201Cculture\u201D.\r\n\r\nInterestingly,
    stealing tangible goods is super bad over there, shameful even. Not so much here
    in the States. The word \u201Cjack\u201D is in every 14 year olds vocabulary.\r\n\r\nA
    question for myself?... If some one made a counterfeit hydrogen car that got very
    high miles would I still buy it?\r\n\r\nMikey :-)"
  created: '2008-06-26 07:30:17'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "@Mikey: <em>William Berkson has encapsulated exactly what I meant. Yes, I
    know people from all over the world can be bad or good. In the case of China,
    I think copying some else\u2019s work is okay there. At the personal level all
    the way to the governmental. That is what I meant by \"culture\".</em>\r\n\r\nYou're
    saying \"culture\" now but earlier you said:\r\n\r\n<em>It steams from communism
    right?</em>\r\n\r\nRicardo and I were mainly refuting that notion, that the dishonesty
    in China stems from communism.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-06-29 09:35:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Well, I didn't want do get into this, but this form of corruption is molded
    by Communism, or post-Communism if you will, as the original ideology is pretty
    dead. Already in the 1950s Milovan Djilas pointed out that the result of the Leninist
    revolution was not a classless society, but a \"New Class\" of party bosses who
    had no check against them, and made themselves a wealthy and privileged upper
    class through corruption. \r\n\r\nCurrently even the Chinese central government
    recognizes that corruption is one of its central problems, along with the gap
    between the booming cities and the countryside of grinding poverty--which contains
    a majority of the population. The struggle over rule of law--and many Chinese
    recognize its importance and are trying to advance it--is now one of the key struggles
    in China. And dealing with the violation of intellectual property rights is one
    part of that struggle. \r\n\r\nHowever, to claim that at a \"personal level\"
    people are much more prone to illegal copying that people in the West is quite
    unfair. Most people are trying to scratch out a living from the ground, and only
    a few in the cities are making a living from copying. And here in the West a generation
    of college students has been downloading pirated music, and has radically changed
    the music industry--for the worse, if you ask me. So there is really not the basis
    of comparison for who is more prone to copying. "
  created: '2008-06-29 13:21:00'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: You make a lot of great points, William. I just want to add that over the
    years magazines like Wired have carried articles about just how huge the problem
    of <a href="http://www.wired.com/politics/law/news/2002/01/49944">pirated software
    and media is in mainland China</a>. Also, I think that the problem of downloading
    pirated music in the West goes <a href="http://nymag.com/news/features/42391/">far
    beyond college students</a>.
  created: '2008-06-29 15:47:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Ricardo, that link is a bit old--2002--and I think there has been a slight
    improvement since then, but I don't know how much. I just looked at a Charlie
    Rose show I recorded earlier in the month, and he had on a guy who wrote \"McMafia\"
    about international organized crime. \r\n\r\nThis guy said that piracy is an enthusiastic
    policy of the Chinese government that extends even to building a new train, and
    that it is part of a desperate attempt to keep up high economic growth to solve
    China's problems.\r\n\r\nFurther, he noted that as our economy has become more
    service oriented, more and more of it is dependent on intellectual property rights.
    So there is a serious clash here that is going to play out over the next few years,
    at least.  "
  created: '2008-06-29 17:51:25'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Yes, that was an old news story I linked to, William -- I just wanted to
    show that the press has been covering this story for a while. \r\n:-)\r\n\r\nAnd
    thanks for the update on more recent events!"
  created: '2008-06-29 20:34:55'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Right on William, and thanks, you are well-informed. Can it be said the post-communist
    <em>thing</em> (needs a name) in China at least gave rise to systemic corruption
    / dishonesty? Going by what I read the situation is similar in Russia.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2008-06-30 09:58:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: I don't know much about the situation in Russia. No doubt there are some similarities,
    but  I know there are huge differences. The recent history is vastly different,
    with the Chinese doing a far better job of managing the transition to a market
    economy.
  created: '2008-06-30 12:05:33'
date: '2008-06-19 23:46:30'
node_type: blog
title: Spot the fake

---
