---
author:
  name: dzobel
body: "I am a graphic designer and professor teaching graphic design. I give my designing
  with type class 24 typefaces they must know before they leave my class (12 serif
  and 12 sans serif). I thought it would be interesting to see what typeface you all
  think are the essential 24 typefaces to learn.\r\n\r\nHere are the ones that I have
  given them: \r\n\r\nSerif: Bembo, Bodoni, Caslon, Century Schoolbook, Sabon, Scala,
  Clarendon, Garamond, Meridian, Mrs. Eaves, Trajan, and Baskerville\r\n\r\nSans Serif:
  Akzidenz Grotesk, Avenier, Century Gothic, DIN, Franklin Gothic, Frutiger, Futura,
  Helvetica, Interstate, Neutra, Scala, and Univers \r\n\r\nLet me know your thoughts.\r\n\r\n-david"
comments:
- author:
    name: Robert Trogman
    picture: 111573
  body: "As a former Graphic Design professor I would include fonts that have historical
    significance\u2014 Serif: Bulmer, Janson, Times Roman, Caledonia, Weiss, Centaur,
    Goudy Oldstyle, Palatino and Perpetua\r\nSans Serif: Gill Sans, News Gothic, Meta,
    Kabel, Optima, Metro, Vogue, Bernhard Gothic, Neuzeit Grotesk and Goudy Sans.\r\n\r\nJust
    a thought.\r\nBob Trogman"
  created: '2008-06-23 22:15:22'
- author:
    name: Robert Trogman
    picture: 111573
  body: "As a former Graphic Design professor I would include fonts that have historical
    significance\u2014 Serif: Bulmer, Janson, Times Roman, Caledonia, Weiss, Centaur,
    Goudy Oldstyle, Palatino and Perpetua\r\nSans Serif: Gill Sans, News Gothic, Meta,
    Kabel, Optima, Metro, Vogue, Bernhard Gothic, Neuzeit Grotesk and Goudy Sans.\r\n\r\nJust
    a thought.\r\nBob Trogman"
  created: '2008-06-23 22:15:23'
- author:
    name: Robert Trogman
    picture: 111573
  body: "As a former Graphic Design professor I would include fonts that have historical
    significance\u2014 Serif: Bulmer, Janson, Times Roman, Caledonia, Weiss, Centaur,
    Goudy Oldstyle, Palatino and Perpetua\r\nSans Serif: Gill Sans, News Gothic, Meta,
    Kabel, Optima, Metro, Vogue, Bernhard Gothic, Neuzeit Grotesk and Goudy Sans.\r\n\r\nJust
    a thought.\r\nBob Trogman"
  created: '2008-06-23 22:16:22'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "That's a pretty tight list, but I think you need to squeeze Centaur and Jenson
    into the serifs (or is that too historic-centric?), and Gill Sans and Avant Garde
    or Spartan into the sans. What's the history of Century Gothic, anyway? Someone
    fill me in, please. To me it looks like a knock-off of Spartan, and as far as
    I know, the Century family designed at ATF never included a gothic/sans. For that
    reason, I tend to ignore it.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-23 22:18:26'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: Oh, yeah, of course...Goudy, Kabel, and Optima for sure! Trade Gothic? Can
    you tell I live in the past?
  created: '2008-06-23 22:21:00'
- author:
    name: Robert Trogman
    picture: 111573
  body: THE TYPES SELECTED ARE STILL IN THE PRESENT
  created: '2008-06-23 22:26:35'
- author:
    name: dzobel
  body: "Thanks for the comments! Some typefaces I kept out because although they
    may be historically relevant they may not be the best typeface. For example Goudy
    and Palatino are good historically, but are tired and overused and there are better
    typefaces that I want the students to learn. I contemplated for a long time whether
    to put in goudy, palatino, and Jenson, but opted for Meridian, Sabon, and Scala
    instead. Weiss is a nice font I might have to include that somewhere. \r\n\r\nAs
    for the sans there are so many that i COULD include that I tried to stay to basic,
    but sophisticated.  Now that I think about it I may take out century gothic and
    repalce it with Gill Sans. \r\n\r\nBOB, Do you think Meta is important to have?
    What typeface would you take out to make room for Meta? \r\n\r\nthanks again\r\n\r\nAnymore
    that you would take out that this group feels is not needed. I really respect
    everyone's comments and appreciate the input. \r\n\r\ndavid"
  created: '2008-06-24 00:29:45'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Why do you have Mrs. Eaves and Baskerville on this list? Do students really
    need to be able to spot the difference between Mrs. Eaves and other Baskervilles?
    The same goes for Century Gothic and Avenir\u2014Avenir is just fine. You can
    also drop Bembo\u2014there are better Aldines on your list and it would make a
    space for some Jenson derivative. I would definitely work in Meta\u2014it\u2019s
    a very important face in terms of recent history, much more so than Neutraface."
  created: '2008-06-24 01:20:37'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Well, what does it mean to be \"essential to learn\" and \"know\"? Essential
    that they know how to use the typeface? Essential that they know about it?\r\n\r\nOf
    course it reflects my own biases, but we're talking about 550 years of type design.
    Picking things that are trendy hardly seems \"essential\" to me - the last 20
    years seem over-represented to me.\r\n\r\nI agree with many of the other comments.
    You really need to include Gill Sans and Optima, and Meta is not a bad suggestion.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure I'd include both Century Schoolbook and Clarendon. Pick one, maybe?\r\n\r\nWhy
    four geometric sans serifs and only one humanist sans? I know geometrics are \"in\"
    but for teaching, Futura alone is adequate. Futura and Avenir at most.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    *which* versions of Bodoni, Caslon and Garamond?\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-24 02:11:24'
- author:
    name: dzobel
  body: "Thanks Thomas. \r\n\r\nThe class is not a history class, but how to use typefaces
    in design. So even though the history is important the goal is for them to learn
    how to use typefaces in a contemporary way. The reason I have avenier, furtura
    and nuetraface is not because it is in, but those typefaces can be used for VERY
    different situations. \r\n\r\nAvenier is fantastic at very small sizes 6 and below
    where futura would not be as good. Neutra is better at larger sizes and not as
    good for long body copy. Also futura is good, but it is used A LOT and I want
    to show there are different geometric typefaces than futura. The same reason I
    have helvetica, Akzidenz and Universe.\r\n\r\nMaybe this is my age, but i feel
    optima is not the best typeface and would rather them design with other typefaces
    than optima. My personal opinion. \r\n\r\nBauer Bodoni, Caslon Book BE, and Garamond"
  created: '2008-06-24 02:25:22'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "From my personal recollection of intro to typography, I remember learning
    2 things... a lot of history and a lot of fonts (memorizing as much the day of
    a quiz)... most of which I forget now. What I didn't learn about (and have learned
    since, thanks typophile) is the essential building block for choosing and using
    fonts... such as why are small caps important or what's the different between
    OSF, LF, and TF. History is important, don't get me wrong. Explaining where particular
    faces came from, which faces are the grandfathers to all the new digital faces,
    and how type has developed over time. Are important towards understanding about
    why faces are like they are and where typesetting practices originated (it's called
    leading!)...as Goudy is often quoted, \"The old fellows stole all the best ideas.\"
    \r\n\r\nTake a gander at this: http://www.flickr.com/photos/fontshop/sets/72157604597637021/
    \r\n\r\nIt's a flickr set from Stephen Coles for Fontshop on Opentype fonts...
    I think it's a nice introduction to a lot of features that fonts have but are
    often ignored during the intro to typography stage (which was, for me, more of
    a primer on history and not technique).\r\n\r\nAlso Nick Shinn wrote a wonderful
    article on getting the most out of a type face, especially one with expert features.\r\nhttp://www.shinntype.com/Writing/DigginIt.pdf\r\n\r\nI
    think the important thing is to give your students the tools for using fonts.
    To understand how and why a particular font is a better choice for a particular
    problem (like you shouldn't use a display font for setting body copy)... then
    allow them to make that choice on their own.\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-24 03:38:15'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>What\u2019s the history of Century Gothic, anyway? Someone fill me in,
    please. To me it looks like a knock-off of Spartan, and as far as I know, the
    Century family designed at ATF never included a gothic/sans. For that reason,
    I tend to ignore it.</em>\r\n\r\nKoppa, Century Gothic was created in the late
    '80s by Monotype as a stand-in or substitute for ITC Avant Garde, one of the standard
    fonts included in PostScript output devices. The name derives from an old Monotype
    Futura look-alike called Twentieth Century. It's not related to ATF's Century
    at all. Century Gothic matches the proportions, weight, and spacing of Avant Garde,
    but has (more or less) the stylistic details of Twentieth Century."
  created: '2008-06-24 06:06:19'
- author:
    name: aa101
    picture: 114376
  body: Gill Sans, Avant Garde and Times Roman is a necessity even though its default
    on the Mac...?? Maybe no need now?
  created: '2008-06-24 08:17:37'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: 'Caslon Book BE is a rather eccentric Caslon: why did you chose it over Adobe
    Caslon or Lanston Caslon?'
  created: '2008-06-24 12:13:25'
- author:
    name: dzobel
  body: "Asvetic i totally agree the class is not as much about history as it is about
    learning how to use the typefaces and in which situations. For example Helvetica
    Light might be good at a really big, but not as a small body copy and how small
    can a serif body copy be. Than how can the certain typefaces mix with imagery
    and how that effects your design. After all that what we as designer do all day.\r\n\r\nThe
    24 typefaces I have them learn is just a way to have have some knowledge of basic,
    classic, and useful typefaces. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-24 12:14:08'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I think if you got your students to understand how to use one serif and one
    sans serif typeface, you would be ahead of the game. \r\n24 typefaces, or even
    10 in a semester is way too much. Come to think of it, two is probably asking
    too much. Get them to use one in a half way decent manner and call it a good semester."
  created: '2008-06-24 14:35:55'
- author:
    name: dzobel
  body: "i know it is asking a lot of them, but they need to know these typefaces
    and at least have an arsenal of typefaces they can pull from. Even if they do
    not remember all 24 by memory they at least will have that they know. I give them
    all the typefaces printed out with examples of how to use them. \r\n\r\nI do have
    projects where they are using one typeface, so they get to know that typeface
    intimately. They also have to create a font 12 page font specimen book at the
    end of the semester. \r\n\r\nThey also have other classes that fine tune some
    of the things you are talking about.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-24 15:06:11'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "> <cite> Century Gothic was created in the late \u201980s by Monotype as
    a stand-in or substitute for ITC Avant Garde</cite>\r\n\r\nThanks, Mark. I've
    been wondering about that for a long time, and the connection to Twentieth Century
    makes perfect sense. It's nice when you can ask a question within a thread and
    get an answer. Three cheers for Typophile!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-24 15:14:31'
- author:
    name: AchillesG
    picture: 113686
  body: "<cite>i know it is asking a lot of them, but they need to know these typefaces
    and at least have an arsenal of typefaces they can pull from. Even if they do
    not remember all 24 by memory they at least will have that they know.</cite>\r\n\r\nI've
    always felt that the point is to develop a critical and historical understanding
    of typography and type-design so that students could then go on and develop their
    own individual arsenal. \r\n\r\nImho, giving them an arbitrary list - no matter
    how well thought out the list itself might be - is not a satisfactory substitute
    for knowledge."
  created: '2008-06-24 16:00:55'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Achilles, I think that\u2019s a bit much for a one-semester class. Better
    to start the students with a cross-section of history so that they understand
    enough about type to then make educated decisions about picking their own arsenal
    later. "
  created: '2008-06-24 18:04:58'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: I agree that it's best to have a historical understanding of type, but in
    practical terms the majority of students taking typography courses really don't
    care that much about it. So if they can walk away with 24 good typefaces they
    can use for life, and understand how to use a few of them fairly well, then that's
    a good accomplishment.
  created: '2008-06-24 18:39:32'
- author:
    name: jessi.long
  body: Completely disagree with that post, unless of course it is because of the
    professor.
  created: '2008-06-24 19:54:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "None of those faces was designed in the present millennium (with the possible
    exception of Neutraface).\r\nYou may convey the impression that you are somewhat
    out of touch, or that typography is a stuffy old discipline.\r\n\r\nOf course,
    many practising graphic designers are out of touch, or favor safe \"modern\" types
    like Futura, but that's no reason to instill the same narrow horizons in the next
    generation.\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-24 22:26:29'
- author:
    name: jayyy
    picture: 109661
  body: "NICK:\r\n\r\nI really enjoyed your \"Perfect Set\" article and although I
    would have changed a few, I liked your rationale for each.\r\n\r\nIf you had to
    amend the above or create your own for the same purpose - what would be most relevant
    for you?\r\n\r\nJay"
  created: '2008-06-24 22:43:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks Jay.\r\nI think the logic holds up pretty well, after a few years,
    though the types I suggested are a bit out of date now, and they had a Toronto
    flavor, which one would vary for Baltimore.\r\n\r\nIn a nutshell:\r\nChoose the
    genres that designers and art directors may be required to use:\r\n-Serif: display\r\n-Serif:
    text (includes features such as small caps and various forms of figure, in OpenType
    format)\r\n-Sans: multi-weight family from Thin to Extra Bold\r\n-Sans: condensed\r\n-Script\r\n-Distressed\r\n-Pixel\r\n-Internet
    \r\n-Retro \r\n-etc.\r\n\r\nNow, choose 21st century faces for these genres, from
    a wide variety of foundries."
  created: '2008-06-25 04:19:03'
- author:
    name: verdiinpink
    picture: 111397
  body: "Come to think of the way you assign your students to know 24 typefaces and
    think that they can pick one of these to use for almost every design project ahead,
    I personally don't think it's enough.\r\n\r\nI mean, there are only two categories
    of typefaces \u2013 12 sans serif and 12 serif. What if their next design project
    has Victorian Vintage with lots of Versal or Gutenberg or Punk Rock with Black
    Type theme, these ones could not possibly convey their meaning and portrait the
    needed design requirements.\r\n\r\nIf your students know about the anatomy of
    typefaces and some categories or varieties developed through centuries, from Roman
    Chiselled face (Trajan), Black Text, Round Hand, Humanist, Metal Type, 20th century
    art movements, to a boom of various digital faces nowadays. And along the way
    just one significant typeface for them to remember. I think you'll get two purposes
    at once \u2013 your students know about the history & its style and how to pick
    the right ones from a bunch of typefaces available according to their design needs.
    Just open their eyes with choices and the style it represents would sound fun
    to me.\r\n\r\nJust my opinion na.\r\n\r\n--- pinky kinky winky ---"
  created: '2008-06-25 08:06:20'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Hm, add some tracking.\r\n\r\nSzabolcs"
  created: '2008-06-25 08:43:34'
- author:
    name: novas
    picture: 115194
  body: "> [...] I contemplated for a long time whether to put in goudy, palatino,
    \r\n> and Jenson, but opted for Meridian, Sabon, and Scala instead. \r\n\r\nWhat
    the font is MeridiAn?\r\nOr did you mean Frutiger's Meridien, which certainly
    is a pretty, but IMO not an essential typeface?"
  created: '2008-06-25 13:16:35'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: "I don't think it's so important for them to learn how to use these 24 <em>specific</em>
    typefaces. What's more important is for your students to be able to categorize
    typefaces, and to learn when their use is appropriate. If they leave your class
    knowing how to use 24 typefaces, and <em>only</em> 24 typefaces, then they have
    learned nothing; they aren't learning how to do anything original with those typefaces.
    If you instead teach them how to categorize typefaces, then you'll get some pretty
    bad results along the way, but they'll be better designers for it.\r\n\r\nThis
    is really a question of imitation versus innovation. If your goal is to teach
    them how to create consistently good, but not innovative, design with 24 typefaces,
    then you will accomplish your goal. If your goal is to teach them how to be innovative
    with type, then you're going about it all wrong."
  created: '2008-06-25 16:07:20'
- author:
    name: dzobel
  body: "Maybe I should have phrased the question differently than I did. The 24 typefaces
    are only a part of the class probably 20% the other 80% is learning how and when
    to use certain typefaces. When to use display type, text treatments, when and
    how to use body copy, how text can be used as your graphic and not just for information,
    how to mix text with graphics, pushing and challenging the reader, hierarchy,
    alignment, grid, typographic color, multi page design, spreads, grids, texture,
    legibility, etc. I am NOT having them imitate anything. I show them design that
    ranges from clean and sophisticated to corporate to edgy. The 24 typefaces are
    only part of that whole class.\r\n\r\nOff course I show them the different categories
    and how to use them and why and maybe it is my fault in how I phrased the question,
    but it was not meant to turn into what should be taught and what should not be
    taught. \r\n\r\nI posted this because you guys are into typography just as much
    as I am, maybe more a lot more, and I thought this would be a good topic to bring
    up. Maybe I should have phrased it \"If you had to bring 24 typefaces with you
    and only 24 which typefaces would you bring?\"\r\n\r\nSomeone posted about showing
    Victorian typefaces as some of the 24 and that is fine, but that all depends on
    the client and what style of Victorian or grunge that they want not ONE specific
    Victorian typeface. "
  created: '2008-06-25 21:18:36'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: Speaking of blindness...is there only one Braille type face? Or have there
    been attempts to design Braille? Is it time to design [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Braille|Braille]]?
  created: '2008-06-26 15:08:55'
- author:
    name: Dylan Wright
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/daniella_spinat_5139.jpg]'
  created: '2008-06-26 15:23:13'
- author:
    name: oneelectricfairy
  body: "I'm quite suprised that someone suggested Optima. My teachers all hate that
    font. As students, I think we all really liked it until it was beaten out of us.\r\n\r\nI
    think the inclusion of Gill Sans is an important one. \r\n\r\nBy the way, braille
    has been designed if I'm not mistaken. I feel like I saw it designed in some old
    icon collection books. But obviously, I think it was mostly designed for the seeing,
    not for the blind. It would be the equivilant of inking the dots, or coloring
    them.\r\n\r\nAlso, I agree on the importance of Rotis, it's a beautiful and modern
    font that can fit a lot of different needs. I think there should be room for Rotis
    and Univers, as Univers is an entirely different font in my opinion. \r\n\r\nAnd
    by the way, you rarely get to use a Victorian typeface for anything.. at all..
    ever."
  created: '2008-06-26 15:37:31'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Dylan that is gorgeous.
  created: '2008-06-26 17:57:43'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: "Type history is an important topic. Students should know and understand how
    we got to where we are. However, students are done a great disservice when they
    are only shown old work. That's why you see so many student pieces that use Serpentine
    sans. To them everything is new and great.\r\n\r\nSo my recommendation: do a type
    history section. Then do a \"what's happening right now\" section. Show new types
    as well as old types that are being used appropriately the current cultural context.
    Show how cultural contexts change (even from year to year)."
  created: '2008-06-26 19:57:13'
- author:
    name: adnix
    picture: 109591
  body: "Will your school be licensing and installing the 24 faces on the classroom
    computers? Are the students expected to purchase the fonts for their own computers
    in order to complete homework? Certain foundries offer student discounts or at
    least sell individual weights, but price needs to be a consideration as most students
    have limited funds. You don't want to inadvertenly promote stealing fonts.\r\n\r\nDavid"
  created: '2008-06-26 22:20:18'
- author:
    name: oneelectricfairy
  body: "There isn't a school out there that I know of that helps students get anything.
    Oh yeah, a student discount is great, but many times its hard to afford the paper,
    ink, software, hardware and other things. You'll be lucky if the school computers
    have the fonts that students are expected to use. \r\n\r\nI think Adnix has a
    good point. "
  created: '2008-06-27 21:29:32'
- author:
    name: dzobel
  body: The schools computers DO have the fonts installed on them for the students
    to work on them.
  created: '2008-06-27 23:54:54'
- author:
    name: oneelectricfairy
  body: I was just posting that because sometimes teachers like to recommend fonts
    that haven't been included in the computer labs list of fonts. (Mostly because
    they don't usually update the fontbooks, or add additional fonts than the defaults).
  created: '2008-07-01 21:35:13'
- author:
    name: Matt Steel
    picture: 114830
  body: Has anyone mentioned Gotham? How about TheSans? Trade Gothic? Franklin Gothic?
    These are all timeless and fairly ubiquitous sans faces, not to mention they are
    respectively humanized Geometric, Humanist Sans and Grotesques.
  created: '2008-07-02 16:20:18'
- author:
    name: Matt Steel
    picture: 114830
  body: "I'm not sure if there is any magic to the number 24; I second others' opinions
    that it might make more sense to break it down by period style, with 1\u20132
    typefaces for each. For example:\r\n\r\nAncient Roman\r\nTrajan\r\n\r\nOld Style
    Serif\r\nGaramond, Bembo\r\n\r\nTransitional\r\nCaslon, Baskerville\r\n\r\nScotch
    Roman\r\nNew Caledonia, Miller\r\n\r\nModern\r\nBodoni, Didot, Times New Roman\r\n\r\nGrotesque\r\nHelvetica,
    Akzidenz, Univers, Franklin Gothic\r\n\r\nGeometric\r\nFutura, Gotham\r\n\r\nHumanist\r\nScala
    Sans, TheSans\r\n\r\netc..."
  created: '2008-07-02 16:24:54'
- author:
    name: Dylan Wright
  body: "Wow, you guys really know your stuff. I think that's a pretty solid list
    you have there. Coming from someone who isn't a graphic designer and has a limited
    knowledge of type - here are four not included that I would've loved to have been
    introduced to in my first 24 typefaces.\r\n\r\nDidot\r\nAvant Garde\r\nRotis -
    although I realise with only 24 to choose from there is not really room for both
    Univers and Rotis.\r\nMeta\r\n\r\nJust a little perspective from a blind man.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nEdit
    over 4 and a half years later: I like that I can see my old posts, but the poor
    punctuation was killing me."
  created: '2013-03-07 23:31:56'
date: '2008-06-23 22:01:47'
node_type: forum
title: 24 typeface you must know

---
