---
author:
  name: Irene
body: "I teach typography to students that work and output from personal computers
  at home and at their jobs. My students using a Mac have high quality type output
  and students using a PC have really poor output. I need some guidance and advice
  regarding how I might steer students using a PC towards getting better results.
  I use a Mac since forever and <strong> never </strong> touch a PC.\r\n\r\nStudents
  post work on the critique wall and every single time I can spot who is using a PC.
  The work has <strong>terrible</strong> letter spacing and word spacing. One specific
  group of students attend a community college and they are using everything from
  MS Word to InDesign and everything in between. I have students who work for Microsoft
  as well as students from design studios so I am assuming they have access to decent
  fonts. Even pitiful fonts like Arial look even worse when set on the PC. \r\n\r\nWhat
  is it about the PC that is producing such poor quality type? The flaws are more
  evident in the larger point sizes and seem to be more camouflaged in body copy,
  but close inspection shows the body copy is also really poor quality. Larger point
  sizes look like individual words instead of cohesive headlines with tension between
  each word. The letter spacing appears to be picket fenced again with no tension.
  People are producing balanced and aesthetically pleasing type on the PC, right?\r\n\r\nAre
  there some settings that can be changed on the PC and/or within each program to
  help with these issues? Are there default settings that can be turned off or changed
  in InDesign to help? In MS Word? \r\n\r\nI cannot go through another semester with
  these students producing such poor type on the PC. Since these students will be
  using PCs to create work beyond school I feel a responsibility to guide them towards
  creating visually acceptable type on the PC. I am more than happy to put some time
  in on a PC to work out these issues so I can direct my students.\r\n\r\nThanks -\r\nirene\r\n\r\n(Sorry
  no avatar/picture for my postings here yet. As soon as I get off deadline...)\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: If they are using design software (inDesign, Illustrator), it shouldn't matter
    what platform they're on -- the kerning should be the same on each platform. If
    they're using Microsoft software (on either platform), it's a crapshoot. Some
    MS software doesn't recognize kerning and some has it turned off by default. You
    can go into the MS help system to see how to turn on kerning (I'd imagine it could
    be different from one program to the next).
  created: '2008-06-24 21:36:07'
- author:
    name: nmerriam
    picture: 109650
  body: "It's hard to know what the issues are without knowing anything other than
    you saying it is terrible or poor quality. There's nothing about PCs that creates
    inherently bad type, particularly when you're using an Adobe application which
    (and Tom will correct me if I'm wrong) doesn't even use the built-in type engine
    on either the Mac or the PC. Type set in InDesign should look exactly the same
    regardless of which platform you're running the program on. The only difference
    could be the fonts themselves, the skill of the students, or something in the
    printers or print drivers that causes lower-quality output than you expect (which
    may be a situation specific to the computer lab setups on your campus -- I certainly
    don't see any difference in type quality on my laser or inkjet printers between
    my Mac and PC).\r\n\r\nMaybe you should have students with bad type send you a
    PDF or the file itself so that you can see what's happening and correct them."
  created: '2008-06-24 21:41:50'
- author:
    name: hdschellnack
    picture: 110317
  body: "Hey Irene - the quality of a font has nothing to do with the platform. Indesign
    is - HAS to be - absolutely identical in terms of word/letterspacing on both systems.
    We're producing material on both systems and constantly work on Windows and OSX
    and the design is not affected in the very least. \r\n\r\nMS Word, Powerpoint
    and such, of course are NOT Designtools and shouldn't be treated as such. They
    are office software and pretty good for that - writing a letter, a postdoctoral
    thesisor maybe doing a bit of calculating in Excel - but they're absolutely not
    up to real design work. They can be, anything can be used for design... but they
    are very very limited and you have to work not with, but against the software.
    \r\n\r\nBut other than that it makes no difference whatsoever. Our studio has
    been working with Windows for the past 15 years or so - and it doesn't matter
    at all. We're only just now switching back to Apple because it seems that Vista
    - and Windows 7, which has been teased a short while ago - isn't doing for us
    what it's supposed to and OS X is better suited for our needs. XP, however, was
    a rather solid operational system. "
  created: '2008-06-24 22:02:15'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "There is no difference whatsoever between the different platform versions
    of professional design applications, and now with OpenType, the fonts are also
    cross-compatible. If the corralation exists between the quality of the work and
    the choice of platform, it's probably an inverse one, where those who are more
    serious about design pick the platform that happens to be more popular among other
    designers. \r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal Art and
    Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-06-24 22:04:38'
- author:
    name: Robert Trogman
    picture: 111573
  body: "There two things involved with good type reproduction. A decent graphics
    program (Adobe) and original fonts with the proper metrics\u2014not rip-offs.
    I would stay away from MS fonts."
  created: '2008-06-24 22:27:20'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'I second everybody else: this is an issue caused by the PC users using bad
    fonts or bad software. My design teachers solved this problem by mandating the
    use of Indesign or Quark and pointing out bad fonts when they appeared on the
    wall.'
  created: '2008-06-24 22:46:43'
- author:
    name: Irene
  body: "Thank you for the input! I just needed to hear that people are working on
    both platforms and getting the same results. I always thought/knew that this was
    the case and I needed to hear this. I am telling you I can look at 25 assigments
    on a crit wall and pick every single project created on a PC because of the type
    quality.\r\n\r\nI will check MS Word on the PC to see if kerning defaults to on
    or off. Thanks for this tip. \r\n\r\nI think it is going to be difficult to get
    to the heart of the problem in my Intro To Type class since people are using any
    programs they own to fulfill their assignments on the PC. I suspect Word is being
    commonly used and Excel or Powerpoint are not. I explain that Word is just for
    creating documents and not for design but I have many MS students who are game
    designers or web designers that are taking the class to learn about type but are
    not willing to commit to purchasing Adobe design programs. \r\n\r\nMy students
    do not have access to a computer lab so all work is done off campus on personal
    computers and is output on all types of printers. I don't have control over the
    fonts they use and I cannot require them to purchase fonts or programs like InDesign.
    \r\n\r\n<strong>However,</strong> this semester I am teaching a print design class
    in which they are required to use InDesign so that will be one common denominator
    for both platforms. I suspect many students are using MS fonts as they work at
    MS or they are using fonts that are preloaded with the computer. I will have some
    identical design projects created using both platforms and that will be interesting
    to compare, BUT they will still be using their own fonts as I cannot distribute
    fonts for their use. I understand the equation for success (Adobe and proper quality
    fonts) but I also need to give them as much as possible to succeed with what they
    are working with. A compromise, for sure.\r\n\r\nI need to see if Adobe offers
    any free Open Type fonts for use. This would eliminate the second variable for
    the Print Design class. Then it will be interesting to see the quality of the
    projects and the type.\r\n\r\nThanks -\r\nirene\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-24 23:20:41'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Could it be that the Mac users have some pre-existing graphics design experience
    / expertise which allows them to trump default settings in InDesign? \r\n\r\nWhen
    the A320 or 737 goes down it's usually pilot error?\r\n\r\nTechnically the apps
    are the same, the fonts are the same - how about the output devices, are the printers
    the same?   "
  created: '2008-06-24 23:32:21'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "If you can\u2019t get the students to buy Indesign or Quark, there\u2019s
    always Scribus. Of course, that might not go over well with the Microsoft crowd
    anyway, but I digress\u2026"
  created: '2008-06-24 23:32:44'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "Is there a need for computers in an intro-to-type class?\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  children:
  - author:
      name: oprion
      picture: 113612
    body: "BTW, if they don't want to buy professional design software, you can tell
      them to download open-source options like InkScape and Gimp.\r\n\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
      Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
    created: '2008-06-24 23:41:02'
  created: '2008-06-24 23:34:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Ask your PC using students which software they are using, not just which
    machine. I would bet the PC users with bad looking type are using office softyware
    or even worse, Powerpoint. Adobe software gives good results on both platforms.
    Also, find out which printer are being used. Postscript laser printers give good
    results. The others can be a crapshoot.\r\n\r\n ChrisL"
  created: '2008-06-25 00:13:01'
- author:
    name: Irene
  body: "In this intro-to-type class we do almost everything by hand. There are 2
    assignments where 1/2 the assignment is done on the computer - The kerning exercise
    is done by hand and then created on the computer to introduce computer kerning
    skills. The grid exercise is done by hand and then I bridge with the computer
    to set a headline and example of the body copy. Given the makeup of these students,
    I would have a mutiny if computers did not come into the class structure, even
    in an intro class. These are tech people in a class taught 10 miles from the main
    Microsoft campus and 2 miles from Expedia. If I can get any of these people to
    kern their type, improve their visual aesthetics and make educated type choices
    then I have done my job with this group. If they continue on with me for additional
    classes then they must use InDesign.\r\n\r\nBelieve me, my type and design classes
    at design schools are much easier than this school. I am just trying to work within
    the PC world and give them tools and knowledge that work and that produce good
    typography.\r\n \r\nInkScape and Gimp, I will introduce these. Should be interesting."
  created: '2008-06-25 00:34:10'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "It sounds like the bad typesetting is coming from students using MS Word
    or Publisher or something even worse from Microsoft. I use both Macs and PCs,
    and with apps like Pagemaker, Quark and InDesign results are identical from Mac
    and PC.\r\n\r\nThere is a way of getting MS Word to space things properly&#8212;install
    Acrobat (not the reader, the full editor proggy) and Acrobat Distlller, then print
    Word .DOCs with Acrobat as the virtual printer. Results are much better than the
    same .DOC printed natively.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-06-25 00:39:59'
- author:
    name: Irene
  body: "Thanks James I will try this.\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-25 01:18:12'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Irene, If you''d like to drop by with some samples (print outs and source
    files) we can try to work out what''s going on. Feel free to contact me off-list
    to set up a time - simonda@microsoft.com '
  created: '2008-06-25 01:50:04'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "With MS Office apps, kerning is OFF by default, on both Mac and Windows versions.
    So the first thing you need to do with students using those apps is teach them
    how to turn on kerning. (PowerPoint couldn't even do kerning until Office 2007/2008,
    btw.)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-06-25 03:56:34'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "FYI: Kerning is on by default in PPT 2007.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-25 04:10:31'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "I don't know if it was mentioned before, but:\r\nthe printer driver might
    be old, or does not supporting the printer or the system, ...\r\n\r\nif all students
    are printing in the same network with the same printers, this might cause that
    they all get crap on paper. OSX-users would be immune because they might get an
    other, possibly better driver from the network when installing the printer on
    their system."
  created: '2008-06-25 07:51:38'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "The defaults for H&J in american software (and isn\u2019t it all US-made?)
    are awful. Wordspaces you can drive a truck thru, Letterspacing auto-applied to
    fill out lines, stretching and squooshing at will \u2014 it all happens with this
    stuff right out of the box.\r\n\r\nSo fix that first.\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen
    BNO"
  created: '2008-06-25 11:49:15'
- author:
    name: nmerriam
    picture: 109650
  body: "One more comment on the topic of fonts, the core MS fonts aren't bad (indeed,
    they were some of the first really high-quality TT fonts made), but they're generally
    optimized for screen use, not for print. That's actually an interesting topic
    you could explore with the students, given that many work at MS (or have friends/family
    who do).\r\n\r\nThey probably won't take kindly to you just saying \"MS fonts
    suck, don't use them\" (particularly since they might know enough to know that
    isn't true), but discussed in the context of how different type is optimized for
    different uses (display, subheads, screen) you can gently point out that the MS
    fonts are excellent for on-screen use but generally not for print other than generic
    office documents. And if people bring in assignments with MS fonts you can use
    the opportunity of them being blown up big to show where screen design decisions
    look less than elegant on large type."
  created: '2008-06-25 17:40:04'
- author:
    name: Irene
  body: "Regarding MS fonts, when people buy a PC with any MS OS preloaded then the
    computer is preloaded with MS fonts? Are any of the fonts from other foundries?
    \r\n\r\nIn my design studio we use the Mac platform and purchase quality fonts.
    In the business world we are in the minority as a Mac users as most of the world
    uses a PC. Pagemaker, Quark and Publisher provided the ability for companies to
    create in-house design departments and they use PCs most of the time. These same
    departments will use Word, Publisher, and PPT to create print and presentations.
    People in most jobs that are using a PC use the fonts preloaded into their computers
    for print, not just screen display. This is how the majority of the business world
    operates. \r\n\r\nIn this specific into-to-type class I truly think that students
    are using a combination of using Word and Publisher for their print projects,
    they use the default settings for these programs, and MS fonts on a PC. I need
    to find settings beyond the defaults and ways to create good typography produced
    within this set of parameters, if possible. I can teach the understanding of quality
    fonts, the concept of purchasing fonts, and the concepts of good typography but
    I also need to learn ways to teach and work within their framework to guide them
    to success. Should they decide to continue their studies beyond this class then
    InDesign comes next.\r\n\r\nThese students use different PCs, different MS OS
    systems, each uses their own printers be it a laser or inkjet, they all use their
    own programs which are probably different versions. The common denominator would
    be the use of preloaded fonts (MS?) that came with their OS system.\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2008-06-25 19:04:10'
- author:
    name: emenninga
  body: "I think the use of the software (Word, etc.) is more to blame than MS fonts,
    they look pretty good although they generally don't include typographic niceties
    -- just the required glyphs for many languages & scripts. A couple InDesign related
    comments:  \r\n1) We do package InDesign and the various suites with some OpenType
    fonts. Each release had some differences, so I can't remember exactly which fonts
    you'll get. Some of the stuff might not be installed, but may be on the disks.
    One of the \"register your software\" incentives was also a whole font family.
    (Thomas Phinney's Hypatia Sans Pro, I think for CS3.) \r\n2) This American company
    doesn't ship with H+J defaults that allow letterspacing. :>"
  created: '2008-06-25 19:22:45'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"MS fonts\"\r\n\r\nSimon may disagree on semantic grounds, but there is
    no such thing as \"MS fonts\". Microsoft is not a font foundry. Fonts that we
    may associate with MS products are simply those that MS has licensed from originating
    foundries or commissioned from individual designers/foundries, for bundling with
    the OS or apps. For example, Gill Sans is available retail in many formats for
    all platforms. The only thing we could now consider exclusive to MS products are
    the new fonts accompanying Vista, with C names, but then again, those are also
    available retail and not really exclusive. \r\n\r\nThis means that there is nothing
    about the fonts that will cause the discrepancy in quality that you are seeing.
    \r\n\r\nWhat does make a very visible difference is the application being used.
    MS applications (various versions) tend to mess up default spacing, ignore kerning,
    and the worst offenders are Word and PowerPoint. I've found that the highest-quality
    fonts end up looking mangled in those apps, and I consider them sub-standard for
    any design task. Not to mention how difficult they are to work with in terms of
    fine typographic control. \r\n\r\nYou might use this quality difference in the
    class as a lesson; to show how certain apps can set type, but not expertly. Some
    apps are not made to handle design work, and you can show them the gappiness,
    spacing problems and lack of kerning as examples of this."
  created: '2008-06-25 20:46:37'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Totally agree - in fact we licensed the core fonts and Web fonts to Apple,
    so they're shipping essentially the same fonts as we do with Windows, with the
    notable exception of the ClearType Collection fonts. \r\n\r\nAnd the app defaults
    are likely the culprits here, and as we're neighbors (and as my people are paying
    to attend your course) I'm more than happy to review files and output to see what
    might be going wrong. "
  created: '2008-06-25 20:54:27'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<cite>I need to see if Adobe offers any free Open Type fonts for use.</cite>\r\n\r\nCheck
    your InDesign / Illustrator DVDs! There are a lot of superior quality fonts included
    with the package. I don't remember offhand if they get installed or not by default
    as I <em>never</em> use the default install options :-)\r\n\r\nThe fonts range
    from book faces (Minion, Garamond) to complete sans families (Myriad) to familiar
    (Trajan, Lithos) to Rosewood, and a great range of CJK designs (you can make great
    logotypes with'em!).\r\n\r\nAs for print quality: having written more than one
    program that required to print from Windows, it always bothered me the virtual
    canvas you're drawing onto has <em>the printers' resolution</em>. That doesn't
    sound ominous, but think again: everything (text positioning, line width, bitmap
    graphics) has to be rounded towards the printer's rez, and if you change printers
    you have to rebuild the entire image."
  created: '2008-06-25 21:17:42'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Like it or not: Showing your students how they can achieve good quality with
    the given programs, OSes and fonts, means that you might have to touch a PC for
    the first time, try to use the tools they use with all your professional experience
    in typography and graphics design, and find out what can be achieved.\r\nBut be
    prepared: while the Adobe apps will behave as you are used to, \"design tools\"
    like word, powerpoint, publisher (URGH!) are quite different to use..."
  created: '2008-06-25 22:52:11'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Eric wrote: <cite>Each release had some differences, so I can\u2019t remember
    exactly which fonts you\u2019ll get. </cite>\r\n\r\nHere is some detailed information:\r\n<ul><li><a
    href=\"http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/CS3fonts.html\">Fonts that ship with
    Adobe Creative Suite 3</a></li>\r\n<li><a href=\"http://www.adobeforums.com/cgi-bin/webx/Adobe%20Community%20Forums/Typography/1521\">Fonts
    bundled with Creative Suite 2 (and individual CS2 products)</a></li>\r\n<li><a
    href=\"http://media.24ways.org/2007/17/fontmatrix.html\">Matrix of fonts bundled
    with Mac and Windows operating systems, Microsoft Office and Adobe Creative Suite</a>
    by Richard Rutter</li></ul>"
  created: '2008-06-26 13:03:12'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Type-designing education, as I see and do it, 'requires' teaching about the
    composition systems, down to the niddy-gritty. I wonder why people don't feel
    the same about designing-with-type education (graphic design)? Doesn't it seem,
    because the Mac does a lot of things right by default, (or loses the options altogether;),
    that students among others, do not really understand the composition mechanism?
    \r\nSo, yeah, let 'em loose on a Windows machine, where the defaults are set to
    protect pre-Cambrian Windows documents from \"ReFlow\", (among other things, even
    in the authoring of \"new documents\")... and poof!, you have an education issue,
    (a billion dollar book too, \"Windows Type for Dummies\".\r\n\r\nSII \"...with
    the notable exception of the ClearType Collection fonts.\" Have you seen these
    on the Mac?\r\n\r\nCheers, and good luck!"
  created: '2008-06-26 14:17:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "One of my pet peeves is that kerning is off by default on Word. I believe
    it's also off in Publisher. I really don't understand why 'reflow' is such an
    issue that kerning has to be off for the next thousand years. If there is a note
    when the changeover is made, and information in the 'help', what is the issue?
    \r\n\r\n\r\nThe latest version of Word comes with all kinds of interface changes,
    putting a big learning burden on all users, so I really don't see why learning
    to uncheck a box for older style flow is such a burden. \r\n\r\nMaybe there's
    something I am missing here, but this policy seems pointlessly irrational and
    hostile to good typography. "
  created: '2008-06-26 14:43:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Likewise, why doesn't Adobe fix Illustrator to have contextual alternates
    ON by default like the spec says and like InD does? Enough time has gone by for
    them to fix the damn default, already.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-06-26 15:03:48'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Have you seen these on the Mac?\r\n\r\nYes, they seem to perform just as
    well as other off-the-shelf OpenType fonts. Understandable that they don't look
    quite as good in InDesign and under Quartz as they do under the environments for
    which they were designed. \r\n\r\nWord could turn on kerning for \"new documents\"
    without breaking existing ones. \r\n\r\nNote that Apple hasn't turned on kerning
    in Safari due to performance issues*. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si \r\n\r\n* via http://opentype.info/blog/2008/06/14/kerning-and-opentype-features-in-firefox-3/#comments
    - \"We are also interested in eventually adding kerning and ligature support to
    WebKit (possibly only at larger font sizes, since the benefit at smaller font
    sizes is not worth the performance hit).\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-26 15:56:10'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Dunno about anyone else, but I find the second huge improvement with Word
    output (after going through switching on kerning), is in documents with any fully-justified
    paragraphs, switching on the well-hidden and nattily-named Compatibility setting
    \"Do full Justification like WordPerfect 5.x\", which overrides Word's crap justification
    algorithm  in favour of a much better one...\r\n______________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2008-06-26 16:39:30'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "@chris\r\n\r\nI think that Adobe keeps Illustrator in a state of permanent
    brokenness so that people buy upgrades in hope that the bugs are fixed."
  created: '2008-06-26 17:01:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "James, I don't care if Adobe adds a single new pizazz feature. I just wish
    they would fix the damn thing so it works like it should and works with all unicode
    standards and features. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-06-26 17:31:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Word could turn on kerning for \u201Cnew documents\u201D without breaking
    existing ones.\r\n\r\nGood solution. Will it be implemented soon, then?"
  created: '2008-06-26 18:17:17'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I can't say for sure, but PowerPoint turning it by default was a step in
    the right direction.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2008-06-26 19:08:10'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "I hope I understand your problem correctly. I am a designer that uses a PC
    just as often as a mac. The one thing your students will have to learn is just
    to be aware of these differences. Maybe ask them which programs they are using
    and find out what they have in common. In the end, if they learn good design,
    they will learn how to pick these problems out themselves and fix them. The platform
    should have nothing to do with bad quality\r\n\r\nJust for the record though,
    as a senior in college, I now even go as far to right my term papers in InDesign,
    just because I have more control over the type. I guess that's how you can pick
    a designer's term paper out of the bunch."
  created: '2008-06-26 19:35:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "SII: \"Yes, they seem to perform just as well as other off-the-shelf OpenType
    fonts.\"\r\n\r\nYou have a truly remarkable and unshakeable sense of quantity.
    \r\n\r\n\"Word could turn on kerning for \u201Cnew documents\u201D without breaking
    existing ones.\"\r\n\r\nSomeone should tell 'em, QUICK! Change the defaults before
    billions of more documents spew out compatible to nothing qualitatively lovable.
    oops, too late.\r\n\r\n\"...PowerPoint turning [kerning on] by default was a step
    in the right direction.\"\r\n\r\nHow long \xA1did! it take to figure out that
    presentations don't much reflow? ;)\r\n\r\nI s'pose we should be sacrificing to
    the god of any improvement, but I burned up all my baby agates on the altar when
    progress made it to human readable file names. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-06-27 12:20:34'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\r\n>Someone should tell \u2019em, QUICK! \r\n\r\nFor sure, I'll tell them.
    And let you know what they say. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2008-06-27 14:47:53'
- author:
    name: Irene
  body: "I just wanted to thank everyone for the responses to my post. Your input
    has been invaluable and very much appreciated. M a h a l o.\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-27 18:52:52'
- author:
    name: Rodrigue Planck
    picture: 109713
  body: "Rober Trogman Wrote:\r\n\r\nThere two things involved with good type reproduction.
    A decent graphics program (Adobe) and original fonts with the proper metrics\u2014not
    rip-offs. I would stay away from MS fonts.\r\n\r\nI Reply:\r\n\r\nJust another
    sheep drinking the Kool Aid. How can you say stuff like that and not just laugh
    at yourself? I am not wrong in reading what he is saying, only Adobe products
    produce quality work? Robert what are good metrics? Just ones not ripped off?\r\nGood
    typography has less to do with fonts and programs than the end user. This line
    of thinking also just bolsters the way for upgrade after useless upgrade and buying
    new is the best. I'll put up my URW Futura vs any on the market, why do I have
    to buy a new OTF versions? So I can work in Illustrator instead of Freehand?\r\nPLinc
    had a way of rotating individual letters, and we can't even come close, but I'm
    supposed to buy upgrades that I'm not going to use? \r\n\r\nIrene, you should
    find a good starter set of fonts for both platforms and figure a good list of
    programs that can be used. \r\n\r\nAdobe makes fine products and fonts, but can
    we get real that there are products out there that have a proven track record
    of quality?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nThe Truth shall set you free"
  created: '2008-06-28 05:15:03'
- author:
    name: Irene
  body: "Rodrigue Planck Wrote:\r\n\r\n\"I\u2019ll put up my URW Futura vs any on
    the market, why do I have to buy a new OTF versions? So I can work in Illustrator
    instead of Freehand?\"\r\n\r\nYES, I agree. Personally, I will never upgrade to
    any program that does not support post script fonts. I already have well over
    $20,000 invested in post script fonts with a collection that began in the 80's
    and I will not be replacing fonts I already own with OTF versions. I want to keep
    moving forward and purchasing new typefaces. I doubt that foundries will replace
    my PS fonts with OTF versions as a courtesy. Or will they? \r\n\r\nChanging programs
    to only support OTF does not work for me on any level.\r\n\r\nThis endless cycle
    of upgrading software gets tiring and expensive, especially when you are not using
    all the features. I remember playing with a beta version of Photoshop and Illustrator.
    I started with a Mac Lisa and owned version 1.0 of many programs. I could probably
    own two nice houses for the amount I have spent on software licenses and computers
    for my studios. By the way, I am not that old, I just started my career when I
    was very young.\r\n\r\nAll the designers I know feel are at this place: \r\nWe
    own the software, it serves all our needs, we know all the features and how to
    use them, it all works, it is all compatible with each other and our OS, everything
    prints, the programs don't crash, and we can get our work done and make our deadlines.
    That is the perfect scenerio. Once we reach this point we think very long and
    hard about making any software changes and usually take a pass.\r\n\r\nI have
    a love/hate relationship with computers. On positive side is the ability to set
    type myself and not have to spec body copy for annual reports hoping it will fit...
    but I am an artist and I love putting hand to paper. I liked to ink logotypes
    and custom lettering, I liked the small nuances in each letter that I created
    with my sweeps and templates. It made me feel close to my work. It is difficult
    to feel that emotion when pulling handles in vector programs. I am not a typesetter,
    but I set type. Do I miss my typesetter who set the most stunning Berthold type?
    Yes, everyday. He was a true artisan.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-28 07:25:57'
- author:
    name: Freeza
    picture: 114205
  body: "PS fonts dont work in illustrator!?\r\n\r\n-\r\n\r\nwww.nunocoelho.com"
  created: '2008-06-28 12:54:37'
- author:
    name: Rodrigue Planck
    picture: 109713
  body: "I am not against compeling new, but I am against, as Dan Margulis called
    it, \"The upgrade from marketing.\"\r\nTo believe that ones work is made better
    only by the latest and greatest is buying into the idea that the tools are what
    makes the artist and not vice versa. If I use InDesign 1.5 and get good results
    from it and I can find a place that will accept it, who cares? If I have to do
    some extra steps to photos, instead of what is automated in the latest Photoshop,
    so what?\r\nBerthold fonts were very nice, we had a diatronic, and it produced
    the nicest letters I ever saw, up to a point, which I can't remember off hand!
    The diatronic though, was not a good or reliable production machine. Type houses
    had this advantage, people working day in day out with software for years learning
    the software, getting to know its weaknesses and strengths and playing up to both,
    and upgrades being real upgrades.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nThe Truth shall set you free"
  created: '2008-06-28 13:02:14'
- author:
    name: Rodrigue Planck
    picture: 109713
  body: My point was why update to OTF, so I would have to switch to Illustrator because
    Freehand doesn't really utilize OTF, and considering my investment in ps fonts
    is older, but no less useless, why upgrade to change flavor slightly with no gain.
    My car doesn't have power windows or leather seats, but why switch if its working
    for me, is the new car really that much better or am I being hyped by a sales
    pitch. Cars do what cars do, fonts are the same.
  created: '2008-06-28 13:15:22'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Sii: \"For sure, I\u2019ll tell them [that kerning should be on in word,
    etc. by default]. And let you know what they say.\"\r\n\r\nThe answer came back,
    the same as it's always been: 'there is a performance issue'. This is not only
    too vague for help, but it assumes, I think rather blithely, that the prepress
    performance issues trump the post-press performance issues. The real task is to
    improve the results of reading. Who cares if it takes 10, 30 or 60 seconds to
    recompose the page numbers of a table of contents, if the kerning saves 1,000
    readers 1 second per page reading a 60 page document?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-09 12:00:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Performance issue? \r\n\r\nI have a hard time making sense of that. \r\n\r\nThey
    already have kerning in the program--you just have to check a box, and it works
    fine. What's the 'performance issue' with having a box checked vs unchecked when
    you open a new program?"
  created: '2008-07-09 13:06:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Also:\r\n\r\nThey've just changed the format from .doc to .docx.  So why
    not have .docx open default with kerning on, whereas the old .doc format--which
    has to be converted anyway--keep kerning off?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-09 13:29:23'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Performance issue? I have a hard time making sense of that.\"\r\n\r\nYou
    write therefore you are? Sense, like a 1000 page page document open to the first
    page and the user edits the fourth word of the document to be five letters longer,
    causing reflow of the whole document, recomposition of the TOC, foot notes, and
    etc. with, vs. without kerning. Get It?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-07-09 13:51:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I understand the issue that they don't want old documents to automatically
    reflow. I was writing about Si's proposal of only opening *new* documents with
    kerning default 'on'. I don't understand why with new documents default kerning
    causes any problem.\r\n\r\nBut maybe you are being ironic. I still don't yet understand
    Berlonese well enough to tell. I think I need your text color coded or something
    :)"
  created: '2008-07-09 14:39:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "The Office team sent me a detailed reply, and I forwarded parts of it to
    David. Office didn't give me permission to post the details to a public forum.
    Sorry. I'd be happy to share some additional details off-list if you're interested.
    \r\n\r\nIrene also dropped by last week, and we looked at where to turn on kerning,
    hyphenation etc., in Office apps and how to quickly tell if a font has kerning
    that Office apps will apply. Also provided some suggestions as to which fonts
    her students should use (ie avoiding the Web and UI fonts supplied with our products).
    \  "
  created: '2008-07-09 16:00:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Bill,\r\nAfter you make an edit, Word reflows the document. If kerning is
    on, it takes Word longer to reflow the document each time you edit, not just when
    you first update the software. There is some computer time required to kern after
    reflow. This is greater than with kerning off. Microsoft seems to feel that this
    additional few seconds is of greater marketing value than being able to sell kerning
    to the many users who don't even understand what kerning does. It seems Microsoft
    is more interested in on-screen issues than reading printed document issues. Microsoft
    is a computer company, not a publisher so they err on the side of geekdom instead
    of readerdom.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-09 16:05:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, thanks, I get it now--the additional computing may take enough additional
    time that it slows down the program.  \r\n\r\nBut how much time is involved really?
    Is it even noticeable with the vast majority of documents? And isn't formatting
    off-screen stuff normally shifted to when you are not inputting, if there is demand
    on displaying the current page?\r\n\r\nAlso they are already selling kerning,
    as that is an option in the program. It is just a question of defaults. \r\n\r\nI
    am curious, Si. I am at: Berkson at mentsh dot com . "
  created: '2008-07-09 17:59:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Welcome to the strange \"smoke and mirrors\" world of \"perf\" :-) It really
    doesn't matter how fast a machine is or how noticeable the delay is, what the
    engineers look for are regressions in performance from feature to feature - so
    if the document took 0.002ms to reflow with kerning off and 0.003ms to reflow
    with kerning on that would still be significant to them - it's 50% slower. \r\n\r\nNot
    just engineers concern but marketing too. I refer again to Apple's Dave Hyatt
    comment on kerning in Safari - and cross reference it to this capture from www.apple.com/safari/
    - turning kerning on might move the needle to 2.10 or 2.11 for Safari - which
    is very important to people who make pretty colored charts. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Capture123_4215.JPG]"
  created: '2008-07-09 18:13:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Well, there is cost and benefit. Looking only at percentage increase in cost
    (here time) and not actually the significance of end user cost *and* benefit--documents
    that look better and save money by being shorter--doesn''t sound to me like great
    engineering. '
  created: '2008-07-09 21:57:26'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"But how much time is involved really?\"\r\n\r\nThat, is the question I've
    been asking for years now. \r\n\r\nSii, we don't care about Safari. With it's
    1:1 ratio of reader to refresh it's on this thread's Pluto.\r\n\r\nI am concerned
    for decision-making based on this kind of thought stream:\r\n<em>\"...the engineers
    look for [] regressions in performance from feature to feature - [] if the document
    took 0.002ms to reflow with kerning off and 0.003ms to reflow with kerning on
    [] - it\u2019s 50% slower\" </em>\r\nAhem...u.u..what is o.oo\u0131ms? Does that
    stand for a millionth of a second, or \u0131/\u0131oooth of a millionth of a second?
    I'm the first one to embrace concepts like \"not a moment too soon\" or  \"wait
    a second\" but how much time'r we talkin' about here?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-10 18:51:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"But how much time is involved really?\"\r\n\r\nThat, is the question I've
    been asking for years now. \r\n\r\nSii, we don't care about Safari. With it's
    1:1 ratio of reader to refresh it's on this thread's Pluto.\r\n\r\nI am concerned
    for decision-making based on this kind of thought stream:\r\n<em>\"...the engineers
    look for [] regressions in performance from feature to feature - [] if the document
    took 0.002ms to reflow with kerning off and 0.003ms to reflow with kerning on
    [] - it\u2019s 50% slower\" </em>\r\nAhem...u.u..what is o.oo\u0131ms? Does that
    stand for a millionth of a second, or \u0131/\u0131oooth of a millionth of a second?
    I'm the first one to embrace concepts like \"not a moment too soon\" or  \"wait
    a second\" but how much time'r we talkin' about here?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-10 18:53:44'
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: ms=millisecond=1/1000th of a second
  created: '2008-07-10 20:40:45'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "It was a made up number - trying to illustrate that in this world - which
    I agree is not so in touch with reality - its the percentage change in time that
    is of concern not the actual time.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2008-07-10 21:24:39'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "The proper way would be, \"it's just 0.001 ms slower\".\r\n\r\nOne thousand
    of a second is a microsecond; so 0.001 ms is one thousand of one thousand ms,
    a microsecond. That would be a typical single instruction speed in, oh, let's
    look it up: [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Whirlwind_(computer)|around 1947]].
    When approaching the 60s, computers dipped under the 1\u03BCs limit ([[http://www.digital60.org/birth/manchestercomputers/museandatlas/]]).\r\n\r\nA
    modern CPU typically runs with multiple cycles in the nanosecond (ns) range. Usually,
    the number of instructions per second are given -- its speed in megahertz (millions
    of cycles per second), or rather gigahertz (billions of'em). So, for my dual core
    2.99GHz chip, the most basic instruction takes 1/2.99 billionth of a second, which
    is (hold on .. calculator sez) .0000000003 of a second, which is 0.0003 <em>microseconds</em>.\r\n\r\nApparently
    there are <em>thousands</em> of extra instructions in Safari per performance unit.
    Let's hope they're all useful."
  created: '2008-07-10 21:31:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Ooooookay. So performance is not this issue then. It's a lack of typographically
    adult supervision. \r\n\r\nGood luck Sii!\r\n\r\nCheers."
  created: '2008-07-11 12:29:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "... and happy 12th of July, I hope it is 300% better than the 4th. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-07-12 11:54:36'
date: '2008-06-24 21:16:59'
title: Mac and PC Type Quality Issues

---
