---
author:
  name: Jackie Frant
  picture: 109498
body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/QuakerOats_4095.jpg]\r\n\r\nYesterday,
  I went to my local supermarket to pick up more Instant Quaker Oatmeal for my mother-in-law.
  (The only thing she eats anymore, god bless her, at 92.)\r\n\r\nAt first I couldn't
  find her beloved Peaches & Cream - and then I did, looking like a box of elbow macaroni.\r\n\r\nI
  was wondering what you thought about this. It isn't a \"design\" question - I felt
  it more appropriate in general discussion, as hopefully, none of us designed this.\r\n\r\nThe
  one on the left was the package they have been using for years, nicely balanced,
  well thought out - fun with type...\r\nthe one on the right is there new and improved
  - or as they say, \"New Look, Same Great Taste.\"\r\n\r\nI don't want to influence
  you - but am I the only one that thinks they hired a kid out of school who had to
  prove he was worth the salary they were giving him?\r\n\r\nI'd love to hear your
  opinions. Honest. \r\n\r\nP.S. I know that Quaker Oats was having some problems
  and the US government made them change some of the claims on their packaging. That
  might have been the excuse for a new design, but I would have liked to see a design
  first."
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Not that the old one was exactly a classic, but yeah, it\u2019s a change
    for the worse."
  created: '2008-06-26 17:03:18'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "I feel like some Quaker products get their packaging changed every other
    month! Their breakfast cereals, for example.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/quaker_oat_squares_5840.jpg]\r\n\r\nFor
    a while, this product's box was changing faster than you could say \"redesign\"..."
  created: '2008-06-26 17:09:04'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: <a href="http://quaker2.org/cfrazier/2006/08/quakr-2oats/">Quakr 2.Oats</a>
  created: '2008-06-26 17:14:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It is a shame when you go to the store and look for that comfy old familiar
    look that you have trusted for decades only to be shocked out of your comfort
    zone to find a \"NEW\" look for no reason other than some marketing company has
    sold a worthless \"Brand Refresh\" to a bozo suit. If the product hasn't changed
    and the market has package recognition going, why change the package?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-06-26 17:39:53'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: The Altoids redesign is awful too - instead of the nice hand-lettered look
    they switched to... wait for it... ROTIS SEMI SERIF!!! The horror!
  created: '2008-06-26 18:54:41'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "\r\ni don't know if it's a great redesign, but i'm a little confused by your
    question about\r\na kid just out of school with something to prove.\r\n\r\nthere
    are at least 100 people between a kid just out of school and the decision to \r\nredesign
    the quaker oats packaging."
  created: '2008-06-26 20:35:30'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Jarrod,\r\n\r\nIn NY when I owned a typeshop and some pretty rotten designs
    came through - the old pros would laugh and say, it looks like someone who just
    came out of art school. The joke was that so many do graduate from art school
    and think they are suppose to be art directors right away, instead of learning
    more in a professional environment. (My own stepson was like that too.) What I
    was saying is that someone in the company has to justify the salary -- or what
    happened in publishing, when they got rid of the 6-figure art director and switched
    to someone that barely was wet behind the ears... I hope that makes sense -- it's
    just the old NY Typographer in me rambling on...."
  created: '2008-06-26 21:16:40'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> The one on the left was the package they have been using for years, nicely
    balanced, well thought out - fun with type...\r\n\r\nStudy it  again. See the
    background; shadows;  colors; emphasis  ; size of the logo....\r\n\r\nWhere's
    the balance with the old one? "
  created: '2008-06-26 22:13:54'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: 'The new design emphasizes the cream; the background is clean and white and
    the pitcher is fully in view. They reduced the size of "Peaches and Cream" but
    also seem to have reduced the size of "ARTIFICIALLY FLAVORED". The color blue
    now occupies space at the top and bottom of the package, which helps remind me
    of the round blue oatmeal containers. Not terrible, although in the picture, "Peaches
    and Cream" seems a bit harder to read. '
  created: '2008-06-26 22:54:22'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/quakeroats_5908.jpg]\r\nHere'a a really
    old design that I kinda like..."
  created: '2008-06-26 22:56:03'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: so do I canderson - it has "style..." ty
  created: '2008-06-27 03:07:12'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "Alas, a grocery post! Growing up in the family grocery store, stocking boxes
    of Apple Jacks, Cocoa Puffs, and Sugar Smacks at age ten, I was fortunate to get
    weekly, intimate exposure to package design. Some I loved, others I hated. My
    brother and I would sit together in an aisle, on milk crates, and every once in
    a while pose a \"which is cooler?\" question. Liquid Plumr or Drano? Betty Crocker
    or Duncan Hines? Speas or Tree Top? Hi-C or Haiwaiian Punch?\r\n\r\nNot many things
    in the grocery store are more classic than that Quaker Oats cylinder. It breaks
    my heart every time a brand chooses to redesign its packaging for the sake of
    \"updating.\" Yes, I love technology (but not as much as you, you see), but thank
    God for Quisp. I think it's the only kid's cereal cartoon character that hasn't
    been destroyed with Illustrator gradients.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/quisp-cereal_5851.jpg]\r\n\r\nAs
    for the new Quaker packaging, fine. Go ahead and ruin a good thing. That's about
    all I can say anymore. I'm tired of seeing it happen. Creamette, Mountain Dew,
    Oxydol... But if I could have my way, I think it would make much more sense to
    model the instant oatmeal packaging after the classic cylinder, something more
    like this one:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/quaker-oats_3997.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    bottom line is I'm sick to death of drop shadows, gradients, and outer glows,
    and I crave flat colors and hard lines. It's an opinion, I suppose, but I often
    wonder how much package updating is done only because it has become so easy to
    do it, and student-just-out-of-school or no student-just-out-of-school, 21st century
    designers love their digital effects.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-27 16:11:37'
- author:
    name: oneelectricfairy
  body: "I think both the packages, new and old, are awful. \r\n\r\nAnd I'm a designer
    just out of school. I agree with Koppa, the old red, blue, and gold with a prominant
    picture of the Quaker Oat man is the best."
  created: '2008-06-27 22:11:46'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: if it ain't broke...
  created: '2008-06-27 22:29:44'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Thanks for that box of Quisp, Koppa!  :-)
  created: '2008-06-28 04:54:10'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...mother-in-law...\"\r\n\r\nAt 92, she probably shouldn't be too concerned
    about package design, when... there are real reaches, and real cream that might
    be better for her. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-28 13:15:35'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "David -- are you peeking in when I prepare her oatmeal every morning? In
    the need to make sure she has calories -- her oatmeal is supplemented with cream
    and real fruit. She is happier and it is much healthier.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile, I did
    hear back from Quaker, they wrote:\r\n\r\nWe're sorry you don't like the look
    of our new packaging. We have updated our package graphics for uniformity and
    to make it easier for consumers to identify Quaker products.\r\n\r\nThanks for
    sharing your comments with us, Jackie; we'll be sure to forward them to our packaging
    team.\r\n\r\n*********\r\n\r\nI feel like such a little troublemaker - but I was
    really in a state of shock in the supermarket the other day... LOL\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-30 02:43:07'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "what's so great about the old one ? they're both rather ugly in my view.
    \r\njust goes to show..."
  created: '2008-06-30 05:20:42'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "If you are talking about the last Peaches & Cream then -- nothing's great
    - just that why make it worse, or rather so bland?\r\n\r\nIf you are talking about
    the old, original one - what is great about that is the brand recognition -- right
    down to being the first company to personalize their \"logo\" by giving the guy
    a name. I also have a feeling, that quick cooking white oats was probably healthier
    back then too!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-30 12:58:55'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "At least they did not use the company logo, designed by Saul Bass no less.
    It is very well done, but would grandma wish to face that first thing in the morning?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Quaker_5315.png]
    (Source: Wikipedia entry on Quaker Oats)"
  created: '2008-06-30 13:34:41'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "> <cite> the company logo</cite>\r\n\r\nEgad. I think I'm gonna puke. What
    is it?...a freaking video game?\r\n\r\nPlease. World. Stop.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-30 17:39:16'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "yes, i meant the first peaches & cream example on the left - not particularly
    appetizing. in fact the new one is a bit less of an assault.\r\n\r\nthe antique
    one posted by canderson is actually more inviting. \r\nmaybe they should go more
    retro. retro updated. \r\n\r\nthe classic two tone (as posted by koppa) is quite
    strong. i agree with him about the glut of gradations and shadows. this trend
    in designers getting excited about new (soon to be old) filters until you see
    them everywhere is fascinating and at times hilarious.\r\n\r\ni think with food
    products the trick is color, texture, and a hint of ornament, \r\njust like a
    well dressed plate of food."
  created: '2008-06-30 19:25:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I don't think there are any digital effects here that couldn't have been done
    with an airbrush and filmstripping, seventy-five years ago.
  created: '2008-06-30 22:53:54'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "no argument there. but it's precisely because digital filters make effects
    so easy that they suddenly proliferate where not needed.  \r\n"
  created: '2008-06-30 23:05:35'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: ">><em>What is it?...a freaking video game?Please. World. Stop.</em>\r\nIts
    Darth Quaker.  It seems the logo was made in 1971. No danger of its ending up
    on the packages, or it would have by now. On the other hand we aint seen nothin
    yet - wait for holographic (or animated?) 3D packaging!"
  created: '2008-07-01 01:33:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>it\u2019s precisely because digital filters make effects so easy that
    they suddenly proliferate where not needed.</em>\r\n\r\nBut surely they are a
    legitimate and integral part of, for instance, the \"Peaches & Cream\" lettering
    on the left package?\r\nWithout the dropshadow, the light weight white-on-orange
    type would not stand out strongly, as indeed is the case with those words on the
    new package, where they have been given less importance, relative to the brand
    name, than before. \r\n\r\nI suspect that both designs are representative of an
    evolving concept of brand packaging at different points in time, going from something
    which spells out OATMEAL and an exciting flavor, Peaches & Cream, in big jazzy
    letters, to something cool and discreet that doesn't need to shout what is an
    established flavor, and focuses on the wordmark Quaker and the picture of the
    product. The new corporate-technical look also has a nutraceutical vibe; I can't
    see what else is on the package, but I bet there's something about how healthy
    oatmeal is."
  created: '2008-07-01 06:00:40'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Sorry Nick, the US Federal government won their lawsuit - so much of what
    Quaker wrote the gov't asked them to remove... and Quaker lost the decision in
    the courtroom.\r\n\r\nand I love ... Darth Quaker! (not the logo just the name
    -- but I returned to the Dark Side...)"
  created: '2008-07-01 20:28:42'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "yes nick, you are right. very reasonably put.\r\n\r\ni didn't really analyze
    this packaging very carefully, \r\njust commenting on the filters trend i've noticed
    ever since the desktop revolution.\r\n\r\nneither of these packages scream \"buy
    me, eat me, digest me, you'll love me\" to me, but i actually think the new one
    is a bit more appetizing. just a bit.\r\n\r\nand actually i do recall a brief
    period when darth quaker was on the packages. \r\ni love my oatmeal."
  created: '2008-07-02 03:01:14'
- author:
    name: BrooklynRob
    picture: 110975
  body: "In my opinion they are both ugly but the new one is better: simpler, cleaner,
    more of a hierarchy. \r\nThe packaging for American mass-market grocery items
    from big companies is mostly horrendous -- busy, jumbled, too many elements, Photoshop
    effects, everything is beveled, drop shadowed -- oy.\r\nOrganization, clarity,
    cleanliness, tranquility, are completely missing, but aren't these closer to what
    we are seeking in an eating experience?"
  created: '2008-07-02 18:53:11'
- author:
    name: emax
    picture: 113883
  body: "I have the good fortune of living near a Quaker factory, so not only do I
    get to smell delicious scents on my way to work, I also get watched Big Brother
    style by Darth Quaker.\r\n\r\nIt's a little unnerving...\r\n\r\ndoes anyone else
    think thank photoshopped steam is a little weird?"
  created: '2008-07-03 03:49:23'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "I'll give you that the new Quaker instant oatmeal with artificial peaches
    and cream (good for you?) package is easier to read and understand than the old(er)
    one. For that reason it is better. But back to <cite>my preference</cite> for
    less effects (be they digital or old school) on food packaging...let's take a
    look at the competition.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/steeloats_4540.jpg]\r\n\r\nMcCann's
    is the package I want to see in my cupboard, and it is, by the way, a fantastic
    product (if you can stand waiting 30 minutes for your oatmeal)."
  created: '2008-07-03 16:38:18'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "\r\nI think that having lasted until 92, mother-in-law should eat what ever
    the heck she feels like.\r\n\r\n& I like package on the right.\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-07-03 20:43:27'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "<cite>mother-in-law should eat what ever the heck she feels like.</cite>\r\n\r\nPlease
    don't suggest that I want to change mother-in-law's diet. Or your diet, for that
    matter. The choice is hers (and yours). But keep in mind, as proverbed, we are
    what we eat. Quite literally, actually. It's pure science.\r\n\r\nAnd differences
    of opinion about package design are subjective and healthy.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-03 21:44:20'
- author:
    name: Ferg
    picture: 115349
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/QuakerOatsPoster_3722.jpg]\r\n\r\nHere's
    a blast from the past...Mr Quaker emerging from a flower.\r\n\r\n\"Dad...where
    do babies come from?\"\r\n\r\n\"Why son, they emerge from flowers...look at that
    picture of mr Quaker...\"\r\n\r\n\"But Dad...he's full grown...\"\r\n\r\n\"Why
    sure he is son...he eats up all his oats!\""
  created: '2008-07-03 22:10:47'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Kopa :o)\r\n\r\nMy comment directed at Mr. Berlow, who suggests that because
    a person is 92, they should have other people making dietary choices for them.
    At that age, there could be reasons for that, but not on the strength of age alone.
    ...Sorry for the confusion. And my preference was for the package on the right
    in post #1 o-this thread. I love the McCann's can.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-07-04 00:45:27'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "I think the new package design (on the right) is much better than the previous
    one. It's more effective from the standpoint of clarity. The new design emphasizes
    cream and creamy goodness, nutrition. The AD seems to have amplified the corporate
    semantic with rationalised use of blue.\r\n\r\nIt's hard to tell much more with
    the picture supplied by Jackie. The details aren't sufficiently clear.\r\n\r\nOne
    thing I'm really certain of tho, some of the people on this thread aren't so much
    concerned about package design as they are reluctant to accept change.\r\n\r\n@Koppa:
    <em>But keep in mind, as proverbed, we are what we eat. Quite literally, actually.
    It\u2019s pure science.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's a simplistic load of nonsense, transparently
    unscientific and not true at all. Our bodies manufacture what they need from the
    food we ingest. While it's true an impoverished diet makes people less than healthy,
    we are much more than just what we eat. We are walking bio-chemical factories.
    Some of what we don't eat our bodies manufacture. The old proverb \"we are what
    we eat\" has a basic truth to it, but technically it's not accurate. In this day
    and age it has the credence of and old wive's tale.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-07-04 14:09:24'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "What are the priorities in a package design? \r\nTo inform the consumer of
    what is in the box?\r\nTo tell the consumer who made the stuff in the box?\r\nTo
    protect and contain the product?\r\n\r\nAll of these are necessary, of course,
    but it seems that brand identification has taken precedence over product identification
    with the new design. The only text smaller than the \"INSTANT OATMEAL\" line is
    the one that says \"ARTIFICIALLY FLAVORED\". It does allow more space to display
    the product photo without an intersecting orange rectangle, but without close
    inspection it could be any kind of mush. \r\n\r\nThere are reasonable arguments
    on either side regarding promoting brand over product, but Quaker is such a well
    recognized brand, especially in the context of oatmeal, that the logo speaks for
    its self, and it doesn't need to be spelled out in bold letters larger than anything
    else on the box. The new design tells me the opposite. There is no question that
    this is a Quaker product, but is it oatmeal?"
  created: '2008-07-04 21:47:38'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "It's Instant Oatmeal LOL\r\n\r\nI feel that if a company is going to take
    the time and money to redesign a product - that is what they should do. I feel
    their new design is borrowed from the Pasta Packaging shelves of my local supermarket.\r\n\r\nAnd
    at 92, if Helen wants her instant oatmeal - then by golly, that's what she'll
    get. It's about the only thing she still enjoys eating. I have learned that as
    you get older your taste buds die - and you are left with just the taste buds
    that taste \"sweet\" and that is a very good word to describe Peaches and Cream.
    You do not have to add any sugar to it..."
  created: '2008-07-05 23:42:58'
- author:
    name: Koppa
  body: "(This has nothing to do with type...this is an anything-goes general discussion,
    I hope!)\r\n\r\nJames...\r\n\r\n<cite>That\u2019s a simplistic load of nonsense,
    transparently unscientific and not true at all. </cite>\r\n\r\nI understand that
    our bodies are complex, and I am impressed with your explanation. But, simplistic
    as that old proverb may be, it holds true for me. Our bodies take what they need
    from what we put into them, be it through eating, drinking, breathing, or by needles.
    Without scientific evidence to back it up, I'm willing to believe that good, wholesome
    inputs are the preferred building blocks for our bodies, and that artificial ingredients,
    chemicals, and corn corn corn cause unnecessary stress on our bodies. Can the
    ol' bod handle it? Sure. Would it rather not? Probably.\r\n\r\n(This has a little
    bit to do with type)\r\n\r\nI might be one who comes off as resistant to change,
    but not so fast... I don't care for change for the sake of change, and I don't
    see all change as progress. I am more interested in timelessness, and I get bummed
    out when I see what I thought was a timeless piece of design tossed out the window
    in favor of today's cutting-edge style. Change for the better, on the other hand...that
    is something I like very much.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-14 17:47:53'
date: '2008-06-26 16:45:13'
title: New Quaker Oats

---
