---
author:
  name: dberlow
body: "This session description, was on the TypeCon web site.  I was kindly invited
  to join this panel, but alas, by the time last week's invite was offered, I was
  booked for Punkt weekend.\r\n\r\n\"No one can argue that improvements around fonts
  for the web aren\u2019t long overdue, but the current scheme has various drawbacks.
  The most serious problem being that only freeware fonts can be used, with the fonts
  web designers want to use [] completely off-limits, leading to fears that commercial
  fonts will be misused...\"\r\n\r\nHmmm.\r\n\"No one can argue that improvements
  around fonts for the web aren\u2019t long overdue,\"\r\nWell some people have successfully
  argued against doing anything productive for near 1.5 decades, quite obviously,
  right?\r\n\r\n\"...but the current scheme has various drawbacks.\"\r\nThere is one?
  I mean, there is a scheme and it is cross-platform, cross-browser and solitary?\r\n\r\n\"The
  most serious problem being that only freeware fonts can be used...\"\r\nIs this
  true? Does font embedding prevent the use of non-freeware fonts? \r\n\r\n\"... with
  the fonts web designers want to use are completely off-limits...\"\r\nWho knows
  what they want, or what their licenses allow, so, what da heck is \"completely off-limits\"?\r\n\r\nAll
  comment types encouraged, (except for Varge, who needs to shut up forever;). \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "What's the point David?\r\nThe corporations that set the standards have annual
    revenue in the billions of dollars and will do what the hell they want, whatever
    you, I, the rest of the \"font industry\", end users, or various governments have
    to say about it. If they want to exchange opinions amongst themselves on a panel
    at a type conference, your presence (or not) won't make a blind bit of difference.\r\n\r\nIs
    that real enough?"
  created: '2008-06-29 17:46:17'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Hi David,\r\n\r\nDB> This session description,\r\n\r\nThat's actually not
    the description for Adam's talk and the panel discussion to follow - it's a blog
    entry I wrote for the TypeCon blog...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typecon.com/talk.php?id=145
    \r\n\r\n...In which I encouraged people attending TypeCon to get educated on the
    issues, so that they can contribute their thoughts on the downloadable Web fonts
    scheme...\r\n\r\n\"The \u201CWeb Fonts\u201D scheme calls for fonts to be posted
    on web servers, downloaded and temporarily installed by browsers in order to render
    web pages. Earlier this year Apple\u2019s Safari browser became the first to support
    the system.\"\r\n\r\nNS> The corporations that set the standards have annual revenue
    in the billions of dollars and will do what the hell they want, whatever you,
    I, the rest of the \u201Cfont industry\u201D, end users, or various governments
    have to say about it. If they want to exchange opinions amongst themselves on
    a panel at a type conference, your presence (or not) won\u2019t make a blind bit
    of difference.\r\n\r\nYou're probably right. For the record the multi-billion
    dollar revenuers Adam Twardoch, Roger Black, Ted Harrison, Erik van Blokland,
    \ Zara Evens, and Bill Davis will be joined by Christopher Slye and me (MS and
    Adobe generally oppose the scheme). But aren't you playing into the hands of these
    evil standards-setters by remaining silent?\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2008-06-29 19:14:36'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Answering your other question, sorry I missed it earlier\u2026\r\n\r\nDB>Who
    knows what they want, \r\n\r\nTom and Ralf have done polls so we know what web
    designers want. The same fonts they use in print and other medias, so called \u201Ccommercial
    fonts\u201D. \r\n\r\nDB > or what their licenses allow\r\n\r\nWe analyzed 30+
    EULAs and none allowed posting to Web sites. Ralf and James are the only commerical
    font vendors experimenting with licensing fonts for use under the scheme. \r\n\r\nDB
    > so, what da heck is \u201Ccompletely off-limits\u201D?\r\n\r\nSo the fonts web
    designers want to use, can\u2019t be used under the scheme. Does that makes sense?
    \r\n"
  created: '2008-06-29 19:59:08'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "David, fonts in PDFs are a source of problem for more than web designers.
    I have recommended to publishers in the past that they not use certain foundries
    fonts, because the EULA either outright forbids it or says something like \"contact
    the company for details on extra license needed\" (al la Font Bureau). The one
    time I did this (not Font bureau), I was told that since that exposed the font
    to an extra 100,000 computers, I'd have to license it for those 100,000 computers.
    The price was astronomical. The font was not used for the book.\r\n\r\nMore than
    a few academic publishers have a contract with NetLibrary, which requires a PDF
    with full font embedding.\r\n\r\nThere needs to be a solution for this general
    problem, be it web or print. However, now that The Internet is such a large market,
    maybe a solution for that will be available for those of us who still only use
    type for print, too. Otherwise, we're going to have to drastically expand the
    calligrapher base."
  created: '2008-06-29 20:13:03'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">David, fonts in PDFs are a source of problem for more than web designers.\r\n\r\nI
    don\u2019t think the panel will be discussing PDF embedding issues \u2013 rather
    font distribution as promoted under the Web fonts scheme and possible alternatives
    \u2013 I\u2019m sure someone will suggest that SIFR, regular Flash files and PDF
    should be used for rich content, however the promoters of the scheme are looking
    for a HTML+CSS solution \u2013 an open standard not a closed proprietary system.
    A separate thread on PDF embedding would be appropriate for the release section."
  created: '2008-06-29 20:19:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>More than a few academic publishers have a contract with NetLibrary,
    which requires a PDF with full font embedding.\r\n\r\nThere needs to be a solution
    for this general problem, be it web or print. </em>\r\n\r\nOne solution is for
    publishers to commission custom typefaces for which they can purchase rights up-to-and-including
    perpetual exclusivity. There comes a point where licensing existing commercial
    fonts for either a large install base or electronic distribution becomes more
    expensive than commissioning a custom font family. If individual publishers cannot
    afford to commission their own typefaces, they can join with others to pool their
    resources (as the members of the SBL Font Foundation have done). Such a solution
    works particularly well for academic publishers, since they tend also to have
    specialised requirements that existing commercial fonts may not support."
  created: '2008-06-29 20:32:17'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>One solution is for publishers to commission custom typefaces for which
    they can purchase rights up-to-and-including perpetual exclusivity.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    will happen right after pigs start whistling as they fly about. Before academic
    publishers do that, they'll all move to open source fonts & y'all can complain
    about the sad state of typography in academic publishing.\r\n\r\nBut I guess we're
    hijacking a thread . . ."
  created: '2008-06-29 20:48:59'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "The more obvious solution is to use fonts with no commercial document embedding
    clause - such as those from Adobe or Microsoft. Adobe's having the advantage of
    allowing modifications (according to their FAQ).\r\n\r\nBack on-topic - with PDF
    embedding you have a choice of vendors, most of whom allow embedding, some of
    whom have restrictions about what you can do with the document. With the web fonts
    scheme there are no vendors (except Ralf & James) providing any licensing mechanism.
    \r\n\r\nCheers, Si "
  created: '2008-06-29 20:58:58'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "It does seem like there would be a mint to be made if you could charge micro
    payments like google does for rendering a site in the right font for it's users
    without exposing the the Intellectual property of the font to risk. Maybe sfir
    will get better and allow kerning and CALTs and so on... I am not sure but it
    looks to me like sfir is WAY to slow to render whole sites and that probably cannot
    be helped - ever. Probably the rendering does have to happen locally for it be
    a fast/tasty solution.\r\n\r\nWith all this technical trouble, the wisdom of John's
    comments about commissioning new designs does carry lots of weight. \r\n\r\nThe
    problem with that model is that it is geared to a narrow part of the font using
    market. A part of the market that is very organized and has specific ideas about
    what it wants. It's a formal market. I am not dismissing it, just characterizing
    it.\r\n\r\nA bigger ( by volume) part of the market would be served by a service
    of the kind I have outlines above. That is a more casual market.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-29 23:47:02'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "With regard to the interesting question of EULAs not allowing fonts to be
    embedded in pdfs. This requirement only came into force a few years ago. Most
    of the fonts that anyone would want to use were already available by then, without
    quite such restrictive licenses. So couldn't you simply use an older version of
    the font which, obviously, is not subject to these silly new requirements? Hmmm,
    maybe my old Font Folios and Monotype Libraries are worth more than I thought
    - - not to mention the entire Bitstream and lots of ITC library that used to come
    with old versions of CorelDraw, old copies of which anyone could buy for pennies.
    I started throwing away font CDs in 1994 - - it was a big moment way back then!
    - - now I wish I'd kept them. \r\n\r\nSpeaking of font values, I just found an
    interview I did with Alex Kaczun in 1992 when I was using MCI Mail for email.
    He said, \r\n\r\n'The biggest ripoff is people copying fonts, and they don't think
    anything of it.  There won't be any money or incentive to make new fonts if this
    goes on.'\r\n\r\nand that was before internet-enabled email was current. \r\n\r\nYes,
    we used to do it on floppies back then. URW made a huge fuss when they found out
    that Alex was using his Linotype-purchased Ikarus-M on his home Mac. How much
    was Ikarus-M back then? Five grand? Ten? Lino started counting up the hundreds
    of thousands they'd passed URW's way, and I don't remember how it all got resolved.
    URW was nearly finito by then, but fortunately there was still enough money in
    the kitty a few years later to get Albert-Jan Pool to refit the whole library.
    That is now a good and inexpensive library - - I wonder if it has pdf restrictions? "
  created: '2008-06-30 00:13:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>That will happen right after pigs start whistling as they fly about.</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    will be welcome. At the moment, I can't hear them coming and neglect to duck."
  created: '2008-06-30 07:15:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "SD: <em>MS and Adobe generally oppose the scheme</em>\r\n\r\nWell, if Internet
    Explorer isn't going to support it, why is there anything to discuss?"
  created: '2008-06-30 11:18:07'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "The 1995 Microsoft Font Pack was said by InfoWorld to have made more money
    than all font foundries from the beginning of time. Nearly everybody who bought
    Windows 95 seemed to have bought it, for $99. Why not make that the standard?
    No restrictive licenses, and it can be had on eBay 'buy it now' for a whole 49
    cents. \r\n\r\nYou can't even _find_ Corel Draw 5, with its 1000 top quality fonts
    in TT and PS on eBay, that's how valueless it is. Again, no restrictive licenses.\r\n\r\nSeriously,
    it is just BS to suppose that anyone will ever pay for web fonts, or even that
    they have any value. \r\n\r\nPrint publishers are 99.5% delighted with the 99.5%
    low-quality fonts they use everyday. Their customers are not complaining. \r\n\r\nMicro-payments
    are never going to exist.\r\n\r\nThis discussion can't be rationally held without
    letting go of the fact that, post-PostScript, nobody is _ever_ going to make huge
    money on fonts again. That is the meaning of the technology we have today.\r\n\r\nAdd
    to that the overwhelming demographic fact that the few of us who still believe
    software should be paid for will be completely extinct in 50 years."
  created: '2008-06-30 12:50:28'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "sii><em> \u201C...however the promoters of the scheme are looking for a HTML+CSS
    solution\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nThat might spoil my current method of using only Verdana
    and Georgia for every single project. Does anyone really need a script face? Certainly
    Comic Sans is usable anytime you need a handwritten look. Right? (Sarcasm intended)\r\n\r\nYou're
    absolutely right Sii. Standards-based web designers have had about a half dozen
    to maybe a dozen common fonts to use for years. There is no reason that at least
    another handful of fonts couldn't and shouldn't be common to all browsers."
  created: '2008-06-30 14:38:55'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">SD: MS and Adobe generally oppose the scheme\r\n\r\n>Well, if Internet Explorer
    isn\u2019t going to support it, why is there anything to discuss?\r\n\r\nThe current
    climate with respect to Web standards means you can't pick and choose what to
    support, especially if/when all your competitors, and an increasing number of
    web sites start to take advantage of it. "
  created: '2008-06-30 14:44:21'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"don\u2019t think the panel will be discussing PDF embedding issues \u2013
    rather font distribution as promoted under the Web fonts scheme and possible alternatives\"\r\n\r\nWell,
    my 2 cents is that in terms of 'licensing' there is no difference. The issue is
    vendors vs. the public \"pirates\" vs. the customer.\r\n\r\nIdeally, regardless
    of the particular electronic medium, the vendor will accommodate the needs of
    the customer without letting the paranoia of the \"pirates\" interfere."
  created: '2008-06-30 14:50:36'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "I'm going out on a limb here with a suggestion. Some people will think this
    idea laffable. Let them eat cake, or frosted fonts. It worked for Wikipedia founders
    Jimbo Wales and Larry Sanger, so...\r\n\r\nHere is what I think we should do:
    <strong>design a way forward</strong> by starting up a Font Media Foundation.
    F.M.F is to be an \"open font media\" bank, whose goals are as follows:\r\n* assemble
    an open library of \"open licensed\" fonts designed specifically for web and new
    media use\r\n* all FMF fonts to be <strong>new creations</strong> wiki-made by
    the world's leading font makers\r\n* it works like the Wikimedia Foundation and
    the Wikimedia Commons---except this is a Font Commons, initially for comon fonts
    long out of copyright, but eventually more and better stuff\r\n* font maker contributors
    start fonts and hopefully finish them. Contributors work on each other's fonts
    and hopefully finish them. It all takes place online in a wikimedia-powered environemnt.
    Eventually a big pile of great fonts get wiki-built.\r\n* font maker contributors
    don't get paid money. You do as little or as much as your commercial schedule
    allows\r\n* philanthropic contributors required to seed the project---Microsoft,
    Apple, Opera, Mozilla, W3C, Yahoo/Flickr, Google, AIGA, large design and ad agencies
    to provide seed funding and computers to host the font data\r\n* webpage designers
    and publishers who use the service FMF provides to be encouraged to make cash
    donations to the foundation, especially those who make commercial use of fonts
    held in the library. That kind of voluntary ongoing funding worked for Wikipedia
    and the Wikimedia foundation, so it could work for us.\r\n* if it's a success
    and the cash donations run into profit, I am more than happy to accept payment
    for my part in proceedings. In that case other contributing font makers and contributors
    should get paid too.\r\n\r\nI'm ruling out adding existing fonts from any existing
    foundry catalog, especially the well-known retail and popular ones, regardless
    of their EULA types and terms, as a way of avoiding confusion and legal hassles.\r\n\r\nA
    lot of people said Wikipedia would or could never work, but five years+ down the
    track it's the standard general reference on the web and still going strong. It's
    still something of a mess but the areas that really matter like science, history,
    the arts, politics and so on have been in great shape for several years already.
    I did my bit for typography at Wikipedia and now I would like to return to making
    fonts and getting a central wiki-authored font bank going as soon as humanly possible.\r\n\r\nIf
    the graphic design and web design industries want to avoid the looming spectre
    of the great web fugly and want decent fonts available online 24/7 to use on webpages&#8212;you
    are going to have to help pay for it. Fonts don't grow out of the ground. If commercial
    font makers like myself, David, Nick and others represented here at Typophile
    want to avoid the next big piracy nightmare and contribute to the solution&#8212;this
    is the way to go. We are going to have to co-operate and wiki-author fonts together.\r\n\r\nI
    am willing come over there and help you guys set it up. It needs a charter and
    a steering comittee / board of directors. It needs a Tiffany too : ^ )\r\n\r\nAll
    suggestions and criticism welcome.\r\n\r\nWhat else? I am very busy with my Harold
    Lohner conversation project right now but I will try find time to come back to
    this tomorrow.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-06-30 14:59:26'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<cite>Micro-payments are never going to exist.</cite>\r\n\r\nYeah, and that\u2019s
    why I am willing to put up a 100 euro donation to fund the all-in purchase of
    an all in licence for \u2014 lets say \u2014 50 greatlooking typefaces/families.\r\nMe
    thinks that any designer that gets offered a six figure sum to liberate a family
    of six cuts will accept that. So with a fund of some 5 to 10 million bucks we\u2019d
    resolve this issue in no time. Just a matter of a couple of thousand people who
    can offset the cost of a nice meal for the benefit of millions\u2026\r\n\r\nRight?\r\n\r\n
    \   . . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-06-30 14:59:32'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "BT: \"Seriously, it is just BS to suppose that anyone will ever pay for web
    fonts...\"\r\nShould I, give, the money, baaaack?\r\nES: \"It does seem like there
    would be a mint to be made if you could charge micro payments... \"\r\nA greed.
    (before SII can say so;)\r\nSD:\"With the web fonts scheme there are no vendors
    (except Ralf & James) providing any licensing mechanism.\"\r\nIt's just a scheme,
    why would any serious vendors provide for it until it's a standard and quality-approvable,
    when there is so much 'private' web font work?\r\nCE: \"David, fonts in PDFs are
    a source of problem for more than web designers.\"\r\nIf it zooms, I don't care,
    thanks.\r\nJH: \"One solution is for publishers to commission custom typefaces
    for which they can purchase rights up-to-and-including perpetual exclusivity.\"\r\nYes,
    that is a good business. Do You think I should give, the money, back?\r\n\r\nThere
    is no standard font size(s) or rendering method. So, embedding = happy display
    faces, sad text faces. Text face makers are thus at both ends of the reading problem,
    waiting patiently to serve the public. Are readable screen fonts a technical problem
    with exclusively technical solutions, and not design problems with design solutions?
    Do you want to comment on that in the session SII? (Hopefully you saw MS's Mr.
    Hill's presentation of last year?)\r\n\r\nAlso, I learned something new four months
    ago or so \u2014 MS believes that no one, (outside of a very limited number of
    people on the whole planet), need to know what hints are recognized by Windows
    Vista in its default mode, in order to effectively provide text type to web clients
    and their clients. Do you want to comment on that too SII? \r\n\r\nI of course,
    will brief Roger on these issues, and he will have the live options at session-time.\r\n\r\nNick:
    \"Shut Up David\"  (I'm paraphrasing there.)\r\n... the day before I plan to force
    you into a conversation, I'll let you know.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-30 15:20:33'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Just some thoughts on James' wiki approach ... So basically you suggest that
    more free fonts available would cater the demand of potential webfont users.\r\n\r\nBut
    you wouldn't need webfont-capable browsers for your idea. Make some high quality
    free fonts, then make a deal with operating system or browser makers to supply
    these fonts with their products.\r\n\r\nBut after a while these fonts would become
    as overused as the currently available choices, and clients still can't use their
    corporate fonts on the web, etc.\r\n\r\nPlus, I'm not sure the collaborative approach
    would work with fonts as it does with Wikipedia. Many people know a bit of information
    and spare ten minutes or so to submit it to Wikipedia. But how many people out
    there are able to produce high-quality fonts? Can they spare the time to do so
    for free? If they were to develop fonts together with other people, could they
    agree on a common format, i.e. would professionals learn to use FontForge or open
    source enthusiasts shell out for FontLab licenses?\r\n\r\nDoes democratic design
    work at all, especially in a field as type design, which requires so many aesthetic
    and stylistic decisions based on individual taste and reasoning, as well as highly-specialized
    knowledge?\r\n\r\nJens"
  created: '2008-06-30 15:44:08'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Do you want to comment on that too SII? \r\n\r\nThat's probably a question
    for Greg's team. And as much as this thread is throwing up interesting questions
    and issues ( like this one, and the moving goalpost problem with revised font
    EULAs) it's probably off-topic for this thread. Maybe start a new one?"
  created: '2008-06-30 15:51:38'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "James, I do like your idea, it mirrors some suggestions I threw out a while
    back (in response to this http://www.designwritingresearch.org/free_fonts.html).
    My model required that type designers get paid, had an international focus, and
    required a NickNeg style charismatic front-man to hit up Google, et al for the
    cash. \r\n\r\nWhy type designers need to be paid... In the historically accurate
    \u201C300\u201D movie King Gerry Leonidas asks various members of the volunteer
    Greek army what their professions are \u2013 \u201Csculptor\u201D, \u201Cbaker\u201D,
    \u201Ccandlestick maker\u201D come the replies. He turns to the Spartans and asks
    them what their profession is, with one voice \u201Ctype designer\u201D. There
    is a role for amateurs, beginners, students, foundry people, etc., in an effort
    like this, but if you\u2019re building a library of quality typefaces for the
    world (not just the Web) you need the best of the best, and you need to pay them.
    I think we proved that to be the case with Verdana, and Georgia? Matthew and Tom
    are the Spartans of type design. Anyone disagree?\r\n\r\nHowever, biggest problem
    with the plan is that it will do little to address one of the fundamental problems
    with the web fonts scheme, in that web page designers don\u2019t want new fonts,
    they want to use the fonts they\u2019re currently using in print \u2013 Gotham,
    Meta Serif, and Franklin ITC. "
  created: '2008-06-30 16:11:20'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<cite>James, I do like your idea, ...</cite>\r\n\r\nI do too. For web work,
    that is. But there is a drawback -- a typographical (quality) one! People (not
    \"us people\", \"them people\") will perceive these fonts as <em>free</em> fonts.
    No matter how stringent the license is (i.e., in full caps, bold, red, \"For Web
    only\"), people will want to use the fonts in print <strong>because</strong> they
    can see them on the screen.\r\nNo matter how good the screen rendering of Verdana,
    Arial, Tahoma, and Times New Roman, I already have had a fair number of struggles
    with \"them people\" to try and convince them these are <em>screen</em> fonts,
    and we purchased CDs full of real, licensed fonts, just because they look better
    in print. It's not (purely) anti-Microsoft snobbery.\r\n\r\n<cite>[..] web page
    designers don\u2019t want new fonts, they want to use the fonts they\u2019re currently
    using in print ..</cite>\r\n\r\n.. so you'll bound to get a Fronklin Web family,
    a Footoora, a Jensoon, etc. After that, follow-ups will ask for <em>this</em>
    fonts to be used in print -- because those are the fonts the web-designers use
    ...\r\n\r\nEverything on the Web is free. Quality is expensive. And them people
    will pick the free stuff.\r\n\r\n(sigh.)"
  created: '2008-06-30 16:38:41'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Everything on the Web is free. Quality is expensive. And them people will
    pick the free stuff.\"\r\n\r\nYes, Wal-Mart exists for a reason. But are we really
    targetting the 'people that always pick free' anyways? If that demographic is
    always going to pick free, it's not like they'd ever be a demographic worth going
    after anyways.\r\n\r\nSo...it seems that it makes more sense to focus on the professional
    users of professional type, and maybe not worry so much about the scrapbooking
    grandma.\r\n\r\nOr, perhaps still worry about her, but not let it overwhelm the
    discussion."
  created: '2008-06-30 17:04:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "SII \" I think we proved that to be the case with Verdana, and Georgia? Matthew
    and Tom are the Spartans of type design. Anyone disagree?\"\r\n\r\nThe Spartans?
    They lasted for 100's of years. And, don't ever forget, even if you didn't know
    before, the Spartans rose to ascendency by breaking the established rules of Hellenic
    war, with previously unheard of things like battlefield trickery, and the slaughtering
    of captives. When practiced in the neighborhood for a hundred years too long,
    this resulted in the eventual utter destruction of the entire Hellenic race. There
    are no Spartans, only movies made to help with recruitment.\r\n\r\nSII: \"However,
    biggest problem with the plan is [...] that web page designers don\u2019t want
    new fonts, they want to use the fonts they\u2019re currently using in print \u2013
    Gotham, Meta Serif, and Franklin ITC.\"\r\n\r\nYes, and no. They want new ones,
    and they want old ones. Either way, how are we going to get their quality if people
    like me can't do my job beyond the design of the outline? Hmmmmmm? Clearly, web
    versions of Gotham, Meta Serif, and Franklin ITC would require some kind of 'expected'
    reaction to the grid... wouldn't they?\r\n\r\nThere is big problem with this that
    starts and ends at Microsoft Corporation, but what lies between, that's what's
    interesting now. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-30 17:43:53'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "'if you\u2019re building a library of quality typefaces for the world (not
    just the Web) you need the best of the best, and you need to pay them. I think
    we proved that to be the case with Verdana, and Georgia? Matthew and Tom are the
    Spartans of type design. Anyone disagree?'\r\n\r\nNot me. Those are standards
    worth setting. \r\n\r\n\r\nSo why don't you get that team to set some more? \r\n\r\nBy
    the way, a student claims to have established that he consistently gets Bs for
    papers set in Times, As for papers set in Georgia. Has anyone told Matthew this?
    \r\n\r\nNo David, I don't want you to give the money back, especially not the
    money from the days when they were giving you 30K a weight. Do you still have
    it? \r\n\r\nA friend of mine sold over 10,000 copies of a very expensive font
    family and still didn't manage to buy a house . . . . though his distributor did
    . . . . "
  created: '2008-06-30 17:51:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u201CShut Up David\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nYou asked for all types of comments.
    My cynicism about the ability of type designers/indie foundries to influence the
    course of events is comprehensive. Nothing personal. I'm quite prepared to defend
    my position, willingly participating in the conversation you initiated.\r\n\r\nSD:
    (a)<em>...MS and Adobe generally oppose the scheme...</em>\r\n\r\nSD: (b) <em>...you
    can\u2019t pick and choose what to support, especially if/when all your competitors,
    and an increasing number of web sites start to take advantage of it.</em>\r\n\r\nSurely,
    \"generally opposing\" is a disingenuous position, given the dominance of IE.
    \r\nIf Firefox, with 20% browser share, adopts this scheme, Microsoft's general
    opposition will evaporate, prompted by the specific fear of losing market share.\r\n\r\nErgo,
    it is only a matter of time before this scheme becomes standard, as the font industry
    (should it wish to oppose it) has no influence over Firefox.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/browsers_5974.jpg]"
  created: '2008-06-30 18:43:01'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Surely, \u201Cgenerally opposing\u201D is a disingenuous position, given
    the dominance of IE.\r\n\r\nI mentioned the general opposition just to set expectations
    with regard to the make-up of the panel. I don't think you'll find many of the
    panelists supporting the scheme. However, I'm sure there will be disagreements
    between us on the alternatives, and on licensing for Web usage.  \r\n\r\n>If Firefox,
    with 20% browser share, adopts this scheme, Microsoft\u2019s general opposition
    will evaporate, prompted by the specific fear of losing market share.\r\n\r\nThat's
    probably an accurate assessment. The people here (in the typography and IE groups)
    who think it\u2019s a bad idea will continue to think it\u2019s a bad idea - but
    it will be hard to hold back the tide if/when web designers embrace the scheme,
    especially if they stay within the law by using legitimate free fonts. \r\n"
  created: '2008-06-30 18:59:56'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">That\u2019s probably an accurate assessment. \r\n\r\nSo does that indicate
    that IE might become the first (FIRST!) Microsoft app to support OT typography
    now that Firefox 3 has it? \r\n\r\nHow many years ago is it that Greg said we're
    sorry that MS Office does not support OT typography? (The year I got kicked off
    the OT list?)\r\n\r\nAnd for that hope, 11 years later not realized, Adobe gave
    up MM . . . . oh well, at least they fired Dan what's his name. "
  created: '2008-06-30 19:34:22'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Note that Adobe's EULA allows for EOT but not for original fonts on web servers.
    The next version of our licensing FAQ will address this.\r\n\r\nThe notion that
    everything not addressed in a font license is always permitted is simply mistaken.
    With many font licenses, the opposite is true.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-06-30 22:14:22'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>If it zooms, I don\u2019t care, thanks.</cite>\r\n\r\nSome of us are
    older than you Boomers. Take pity. I dunno what \"If it zooms, I don't care\"
    means. I *think* the \"If it zooms,\" isn't needed, right?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-30 23:07:28'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">The notion that everything not addressed in a font license is always permitted
    is simply mistaken. With many font licenses, the opposite is true.\r\n\r\nWell,
    Thomas, could you enumerate the licenses in which the opposite is true? (And what
    exactly _is_ the opposite, anyhow?)\r\n\r\nAnd are you hinting that one cannot
    pdf a font whose license predates anti-pdf fever? I would just love to see ITC,
    Monotype, Bitstream, Microsoft, or anyone else sue me for pdfing a ten-year-old
    font. I bet even Mrs Harvey Whatnot couldn't colorably do that.\r\n\r\nAnd wasn't
    anti-pdf fever invented by Monotype as a way to get out of its Adobe commitments
    - - or something like that? Whatever - - it was very dodgy behavior on Monotype's
    part. Let's also remember just once more how unusable many of the Monotype Classic
    digitizations are, and how much work Adobe put into them . . . . . \r\n\r\nFont
    companies, even Adobe - - are not very good at contracts. That's why Adobe doesn't
    have Berthold fonts anymore - - in spite of having thought it bought them til
    the end of time -- as was no doubt Berthold's intention. Someone at Berthold must
    have known about Wagner's practice of selling his 'original' scores many times
    over . . . . sheesh!"
  created: '2008-06-30 23:44:06'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "to clarify my statement: The opposite would be that any rights not explicitly
    granted to the licensee are reserved for the copyright holder.\r\n\r\nBeyond that:
    as a general policy, I don't respond to Bill Troop's comments, even if they contain
    misleading insinuations or outright falsehoods. To do so would dignify them with
    more attention than they're worth.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-07-02 01:36:13'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "So, Thomas, temper aside, it looks like you're taking the position that \r\n\r\n_unless
    a font explicitly contains permission to print to pdf, it is not legal to embed
    that font into a pdf_\r\n\r\nIf that were true, how could publishing exist? \r\n\r\nAll
    that boils down to is asserting a right to sue almost everyone who has ever bought
    a font. Can this be where Adobe's thinking is going? It doesn't make sense. Maybe
    you meant to say ... the 'opposite'? "
  created: '2008-07-02 11:28:21'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Nick: \"My cynicism about the ability of type designers/indie foundries to
    influence the course of events is comprehensive. Nothing personal. I\u2019m quite
    prepared to defend my position\"\r\nI doubt you know what position you are in,
    unless possible you've stumbled into a joint session of a congress of the cows.
    If you think that the developers in question have made it this far without massive
    influence from type designers/indie foundries etc. bend further. You think there
    are books on these topics? You think the wiki covered any of this in time to be
    useful? Do you think 'they' talk exclusively to other OS or App developers?\r\n\r\n\"..the
    font industry [...] has no influence over Firefox.\" \r\nI think the DMCA has
    a big enough influence. There will of course need to be an expensive test case.
    I am prepared to scratch bite, and maybe even sue until there is a place for quality
    personalized text type in all this marvelous moveable type technology. \r\n\r\nBill:
    \"All that boils down to is asserting a right to sue almost everyone who has ever
    bought a font.\"\r\nAhhhh, now we're getting somewhere. The FBI EULA Phanto-Clause
    would grant the user the license, delivery and appearance of the phont name in
    menus for their phee, and all other uses will be subject to additional phees.
    All neatly packaged where no one will read it. \r\n\r\nJames A: \"A lot of people
    said Wikipedia would or could never work, but five years+ down the track it\u2019s
    the standard general reference on the web and still going strong.\"\r\nWikipedia
    is a huge pile of unreliable junk that must absolutely be cross-checked for every
    single detail in order to put money on the line based on what you find there.
    So, you'd have to define \"work\" in a narrow, 'the actual facts are not really
    that important' sort of use, like grade school homework, but yeah, it's the standard
    there.\r\n\r\nI like some of the rest of your ideas, a lot. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-07-02 13:14:12'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "My first post was all I could come up with in two hours. I anticipated most
    of your criticisms and have taken the idea further on.\r\n\r\nHow an FMF might
    be made viable:\r\n\r\n* make it a <strong>private</strong> wiki, <strong>for
    profit</strong>\r\n* professional type designers and font makers only, no amateurs
    please\r\n* this is not a job for Joe Public. The general public will not be building
    fonts, nor will they be comenting on their creation.\r\n* forget about the mess
    that is Wikipedia, the wiki thing only applies here in two parts: 1) user community
    and media interface (using wikimedia software) for getting the collaborative font
    design and building work done. 2) a \"wiki-like\" philosophy of open collaboration
    between professionals who all know precisely what they (we) are doing.\r\n* would
    not be subject to the chaos caused by Wikipedia's policy of complete freedom of
    anyone to edit anything, or the problems inherent in getting anonymous contributors
    to write a general reference encyclopedia.\r\n* needs seed funding from the big
    guns in the type business & the design industry to get it going, but after that,
    users pay for font usage on the web on a subscription-based licensing model.\r\n*
    contributors all get paid for their work, but the amount of work you contribute
    is on a volunteer basis. We, the guys and gals who make fonts commercially, contribute
    as much or as little time as each of us can spare.\r\n* the fonts in the media
    foundation will not be free, nor will they be distributable. Only user agents
    (browsers) will be able to access the font data and media.\r\n* stop thinking
    of it as freeware.\r\n\r\nOther points of contention:\r\n* the advantage of FMF
    to Apple, Microsoft, Adobe et al, is that existing commercial, retail and proprietary
    font licensing models do not need to change at all. \r\n* Apple is first to introduce
    a browser supporting @font-face, yet they remain opposed to licensing their fonts
    for web use. As Yves Peters once said, Choose a position and stick to it, guys.
    Introducing a supporting user agent is, in my view, a persuasive reason why Apple
    should stick to their guns with their font licensing, but give me some computers
    and cash to get FMF going.\r\n* if Microsoft introduce a supporting version of
    Internet Explorer, they could back it up with similar resources.\r\n* if W3C want
    to introduce the CSS @font-face rule they should help pay to set it up, or at
    least contribute staff and resources to help set it up and keep it going.\r\n\r\nI'm
    really trying to look forward with this. <strong>Design a way forward</strong>
    tackles the most solid object here: the font industry's existing font licensing
    models are inappropriate, outdated and outmoded. They don't have to change, but
    the people involved could contribute some time and skill to creating the alternative---a
    library of fonts that do what web designers and CSS need them to do.\r\n\r\nIt's
    either that, or them peoples will be using them free fonties like there isn't
    no tomorrow.\r\n\r\nNow can I has a cookie?\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2008-07-02 16:37:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "tracking\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-02 16:49:58'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Seems like this is getting way more complicated than it needs to be.\r\n\r\n\"Wikipedia
    is a huge pile of unreliable junk\"\r\n\r\nGoing off topic now, but studies have
    shown that statement to not be true."
  created: '2008-07-02 17:19:31'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>professional type designers and font makers only, no amateurs please</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    open-standards web design crowd would crucify the project as elitist and the fonts
    would get blacklisted in a heartbeat.\r\n\r\n<cite>Only user agents (browsers)
    will be able to access the font data and media.</cite>\r\n\r\nTechnically impossible.
    Any designer can install wget on his mac and spoof browser agents from the command
    line. Put in the most insane DRM system you can dream of and it\u2019s still going
    to get cracked.\r\n\r\n<cite>stop thinking of it as freeware</cite>\r\n\r\nHow
    are you going to get designers to do that? From what I can tell most of them already
    treat commercial fonts as freeware and they tend to get testy about people suggesting
    that they pay for fonts.\r\n\r\n<cite>Apple is first to introduce a browser supporting
    @font-face, yet they remain opposed to licensing their fonts for web use.</cite>\r\n\r\nAre
    the people Apple licensed the fonts from willing to license for web use?\r\n\r\n<cite>if
    W3C want to introduce the CSS @font-face rule they should help pay to set it up,
    or at least contribute staff and resources to help set it up and keep it going.</cite>\r\n\r\nFont
    design and distribution is not something the W3C should engage in. The W3C did
    what they should\u2014provide a simple solution. If font designers want something
    more complicated, that\u2019s up to them.\r\n\r\nJames, I just don\u2019t see
    your system working. If IE and Firefox support @font-face foundries will have
    to either start licensing for the web at reasonable prices or start suing their
    customers. And the financial shape of the record industry suggests that suing
    customers is probably a bad way to go."
  created: '2008-07-02 17:20:31'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Going off topic now, but studies have shown that statement to not be true.\r\n\r\nResearch
    indicates that 78.6% of all study results are fabricated.\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-02 17:21:47'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">The open-standards web design crowd would crucify the project as elitist
    and the fonts would get blacklisted in a heartbeat.\r\n\r\nI'd disagree with this
    - they see the professionally produced Open Source fonts (Vera, Droid, Liberation,
    Gentium) as being superior to the amateur efforts, and they see the amateur extensions
    to these fonts as being less than useful. Providing there are no restrictions
    on amateur development, they wont have a problem with quality gates being set
    on the official, blessed, versions of the fonts.   \r\n"
  created: '2008-07-02 17:27:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "DB: <em>I doubt you know what position you are in, unless possible you\u2019ve
    stumbled into a joint session of a congress of the cows. </em>\r\n\r\nMaybe if
    I get me some of them real big capital letters, DAVID, and stand on top, I'd get
    a better perspective?\r\nYou could probably sway me to your point of view, if
    I could decipher what it is.\r\nMoo.\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-02 19:53:32'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Microsoft and Yahoo are about to become one. This will change the industry,
    but how? Stop being angry and start be pragmatic you can't stop the corporate
    giants, just adapt.
  created: '2008-07-02 20:05:21'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "I keep on going to the beginning of this thread to try and figure out what
    it's really about, and I haven't, but\r\n\r\n'The most serious problem being that
    only freeware fonts can be used, with the fonts web designers want to use [] completely
    off-limits, leading to fears that commercial fonts will be misused...'\r\n\r\n'Designers'
    are always going to want to use what is newest and coolest, and what the designer
    of what is new and cool has the most interest in defending . . . . \r\n\r\nI am
    a little disturbed at stage 2 of the way MS is handling such fonts as Georgia
    and Verdana. At first they were freely available to everyone and Mac versions
    in particular were free. Then this dried up around the time, seemingly, that MS
    began to hope that Vista would be so great that it would wipe Macs off the planet.
    (Even Roger Black seems to have believed this -- for a few seconds at least --
    and convinced me as well for a few seconds -- long before anyone had actually
    seen the final of course.) Now, a few years later, that we know that Vista is
    surprisingly clumsy, and that Apple has nothing to fear, maybe MS could lead the
    way in committing to some really high quality classics to be available, free,
    in every format? MS has everything to gain from a limited philanthropic move of
    this kind. Isn't 'establishing standards' what that company has always, principally,
    been about? Isn't that what makes it tick? "
  created: '2008-07-02 20:46:48'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I agree with Sii. Again, all this discussion seems to be trying to come up
    with a very complicated technology solution for something that really isn't a
    technology problem.\r\n\r\nBut, yea...I'm not even sure what the discussion is
    about anymore...\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-02 21:02:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Yep, it's all gone a bit sideways/foggy. \r\n\r\nWith respect to Georgia
    and Verdana, they were taken off of Microsoft.com in August 2002, less than a
    year after Windows XP shipped (quite a bit ahead of Vista). At that time they'd
    been shipping with Mac OS for around four years (since 1997 I believe). The c.
    1997 versions of the fonts are still available on Source Forge, and continue to
    be exploited by users of other platforms, Symbian, Linux, etc.,  \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-02 22:34:03'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Si, thanks very much for these dates. Yes, that's quite a bit ahead of Vista.
    I realize that it's impossible ever to know these things, but has anybody any
    idea why MS decided to make the newer versions of Georgia and Verdana platform-specific?
    Was it something so simple as that the newer versions were being optimized for
    ClearType and thus would be somewhat (not entirely!) wasted on other platforms?
    In any case I am truly delighted to hear that MS has made the 1997 versions available
    on Source Forge. That is really great!\r\n\r\nAnd see? They're practically the
    only fonts since Times and Helvetica which have become absolute standards for
    the foreseeable future. The combination of ineffably excellent workmanship and
    unparalleled marketing muscle have won out. Whatever anybody talks about doing
    now, I think it will be a while before we see anything like this happen again.
    Type really is intangible, and the achievement of setting a new standard for hundreds
    of millions of users is a kind of miracle that can't be repeated for the wishing
    of it."
  created: '2008-07-02 23:50:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I don''t want to spoil my TypeCon and ATypI talks on the subject, however
    the newer versions of the fonts were licensed directly to Apple. Leopard ships
    them.  '
  created: '2008-07-03 01:10:46'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Hey Nick... \r\n\r\n\"Maybe if I get me some of them real big capital letters...
    moo\"\r\n\r\nIt should be \"sum u dem reel biiig kapitul leturs\"\r\n\r\nSubtle
    but effective slam to us redneck type designers down south!\r\n\r\nMichael :)"
  created: '2008-07-03 01:44:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Subtle but effective slam to us redneck type designers down south!\r\n\r\nSomeone
    has to design bold italic numerals for NASCAR right? ;-)"
  created: '2008-07-03 02:10:52'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Absolutely! The ates are reeely hard tho.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-07-03 02:17:04'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Sory, us ideuts caint spel. it shuld hav ben aetes.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-07-03 02:21:16'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I apologize, I know this is a serious subject, just could not resist an aside
    and was stunned by Nick's attempt, or lack of, at humor.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-07-03 02:33:32'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"But, yea...I\u2019m not even sure what the discussion is about anymore..\"\r\n\r\nOver
    on the right side of your browser's window, there is a scroll bar, which has a
    handle indicating where on the page you are. \r\nIf you drag the handle up, the
    page appears to scroll down, and at the top, there is an entry, the beginning
    of this topic. \r\n\r\n\u201CNo one can argue that improvements around fonts for
    the web aren\u2019t long overdue, but the current scheme has various drawbacks.
    The most serious problem being that only freeware fonts can be used, with the
    fonts web designers want to use [] completely off-limits, leading to fears that
    commercial fonts will be misused...\u201D\r\n\r\n...was read, and I determined
    at the time that it was worth asking if anyone actually was interested in discussin'
    the problem, or whether this text is just a come-on to attract attendees, which
    I think we decided it was. \r\n\r\nAlso, I said, \"hopefully you saw MS\u2019s
    Mr. Hill\u2019s presentation of last year?\" because it was about readable screen
    fonts being a technical problem with exclusively technical solutions, and not
    design problems with design solutions. Then you said: \"all this discussion seems
    to be trying to come up with a very complicated technology solution for something
    that really isn\u2019t a technology problem\", which made me laugh. \r\n\r\nThen,
    the opportunity to describe how a southern typophile might make an \"8\" for NASCAR,
    which involves either tracing carefully nibbled donuts, or biting holes in fried
    dough... and, ah, that's where we are. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-03 03:15:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>slam to us redneck type designers down south!</em>\r\n\r\nLooks like
    my dart at Mr B's occasionally plebian turn of phrase went astray. He more Lardner
    (a northener) than Twain."
  created: '2008-07-03 05:01:22'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\"Then, the opportunity to describe how a southern typophile might make an
    \u201C8\u201D for NASCAR, which involves either tracing carefully nibbled donuts,
    or biting holes in fried dough... and, ah, that\u2019s where we are.\"\r\n\r\nDuh,
    was that meant to be snide David?  I do not see you balking at taking 50% of this
    Southern ass's royalties every quarter. Check your roster of designers.\r\n\r\nIt
    was an aside as I said. Get a ******** sense of humor and be able to identify
    elitism (which was my point, and you further dug the hole) when you see it. \r\n\r\nWe
    just got croissants and bagels down here last year! Nice respite from those damn
    doughnuts.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-07-03 05:03:50'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Sorry Nick, it was no big deal until David turned ethnocentric.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-07-03 05:16:44'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Also, I said, \u201Chopefully you saw MS\u2019s Mr. Hill\u2019s presentation
    of last year?\u201D because it was about readable screen fonts being a technical
    problem with exclusively technical solutions, and not design problems with design
    solutions. Then you said: \u201Call this discussion seems to be trying to come
    up with a very complicated technology solution for something that really isn\u2019t
    a technology problem\u201D, which made me laugh.<\r\n\r\nI aver that the solution
    can only come about through the joint efforts of design and technique. (Who reads
    'Computer Modern'?) And though my respect for Bill Hill could not be greater,
    I can't help remembering the kerfuffle that arose when he patented sub-pixel positioning
    for Microsoft only to discover that the fundamental technology had already been
    disclosed by Wozniak at Apple about two decades before. \r\n\r\nOne could get
    the impression from many of Berlow's postings that he has some real communication
    problems. But go over to his blogs at rogerblack.com, and a careful examination
    will show that his mastery of every aspect of screen font rendering is unparalleled.
    As well, his ability to explain something, when you can finally get him to be
    serious, is exceptional. I learned a lot from spending a few minutes with these
    articles. \r\n\r\nI will be spending some more time over there, trying to understand
    fully what is going on, but as I understand it now, Berlow's solution for better
    screen fonts is narrowly graded, size-specific scalable types. Perhaps not surprisingly,
    this is analogous to what Sumner Stone has found to be the only real solution
    for fine printing: narrowly-graded, size-specific, scalable, types. Surprise,
    ta-da. Just what we (I mean some of us) always suspected -- those of us, that
    is, who _don't_ think it is easy to make size-specific outlines.\r\n\r\nIt's a
    lot of work; it can't be done mechanically; it needs a vast understanding of the
    typographic language. After a comparatively short time floundering in type --
    15 years -- I can only identify three people who have, albeit overlappingly, an
    understanding of the joint technical and aesthetic problems we still need to solve:
    Carter, Stone, and Berlow. Apple, MS and the browser people can do what they want,
    and will, but without those three, preferably harnessed together, Apple, Microsoft
    and their collaborators, despite their justly lauded technical might, will never
    attain the goals they seek. \r\n\r\nIs it unfair to name names? Well, posers have
    to be put in their place every so often. "
  created: '2008-07-03 12:10:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/46896_3698.10.2.3.png]'
  created: '2008-07-03 13:45:42'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "David, I think you're raising some valid points, and re-reading your posts,
    I think I missed the angle you were getting at. \r\n\r\nWould it be safe to say
    that you see the delivery mechanism - whether that be the web fonts scheme, EOT,
    or something else is the least of our web troubles - because browsers and operating
    systems employ rendering strategies which are a. all different, b. all over the
    map, c. mostly undocumented, and d. changing? \r\n\r\nI agree these are very valid
    concerns - one font may look super in Firefox but crappy in IE, work at 10pt in
    IE, but become illegible at 10pt in Safari. \r\n\r\nI think this a valid issue
    for someone to raise during the panel (Roger maybe?) but getting browser makers
    and operating system makers to standardize on rendering seems unlikely. \r\n"
  created: '2008-07-03 15:51:16'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: Si, if I'm not completely mistaken, the fonts David is describing in the blog
    could be described as self-optimizing. But -- again if I'm not mistaken -- each
    browser would have to have some appropriate intelligence built in.
  created: '2008-07-03 16:16:40'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I may be way off on this, but shouldn't the font rendering be handled by
    the OS more so than the browser? I know Safari on Windows doesn't work that way,
    and maybe the others don't as well.\r\n\r\nIt sounds like we're not really talking
    about 'web fonts' at this point but 'screen fonts', which then brings into play
    all of the variables one needs to watch out for:\r\n - screen hardware\r\n - screen
    hardware settings\r\n - OS that is running the browser\r\n - the browser itself\r\n
    - the various font rendering engines involved with the above\r\n - all the various
    user settings/preferences\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-03 16:41:40'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Yep its a bigger can of worms, and one of the reasons why why Web designers
    like platforms like Flash - although that is also a moving target. '
  created: '2008-07-03 16:53:24'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"why Web designers like platforms like Flash\"\r\n\r\nYea, that's a can
    of works too. I think web designers, who treat the web more as a content delivery
    platform, aren't that picky. Print designers, who really really really want that
    brand extension of their print campaign with that specific typeface, yea, they
    like Flash for that particular reason."
  created: '2008-07-03 17:38:01'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">which then brings into play all of the variables one needs to watch out
    for\r\n\r\nIt all depends on how much you care about those variables. Adobe did
    -- hence, in part, CoolType, an absolutely private screen rendering system now
    built into nearly all of its major apps. (i.e., figure out how to make ATM work
    on an app rather than a system basis, then figure out how to make it better than
    the versions you had to beg MS and Apple to include in their OS since customers
    never bought enough of it to make it worthwhile - - - and there's the rub. Customers
    never would pay for ATM and we wouldn't have it unless Adobe -- bless 'em! --
    believed in it so much. Everyone who's building computer display systems (I mean
    that in the largest sense) knows what Adobe learnt: customers are really stingy.
    Sometimes you have to give away the best things if you care enough about the issues.
    And don't expect any thanks!)\r\n\r\nBut the variables all boil down to one thing:
    having the right font at the right grid for your system running your app in your
    view. This seems to be what Berlow is addressing practically. "
  created: '2008-07-03 17:44:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "David, it appears that you started this thread as a trojan horse to push
    your screen rendering agenda.\r\n\r\nSo what you're saying is that the \"reality\"
    of having more fonts available for web sites won't address the fundamental problem?\r\n\r\nI
    somewhat agree, and will sign your petition (if written in plain English), much
    good may it do. Good luck with the scratching, biting and suing.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    I suspect that the messy business of getting more fonts into play online, because
    we like them in print and big, irrespective of how well they render immersively
    on screen, would be a massive juicing of the typosphere and therefore a good situation
    for type business, whatever the legalities. \r\n\r\nMuch as I respect the technologically-driven
    MS designs (especially Verdana/Georgia and ClearType), they are a dull diet and
    don't give typographers anywhere near enough variety to work with.\r\n\r\nI also
    wonder if too much importance isn't being given to the niceties of screen rendering,
    because:\r\n\r\n1. Typophiles idealize the less-than-perfect effect of old letterpress
    printing (i.e. the concept of a good type design as one that can take a lot of
    abuse)\r\n2. Users can optimize screen type size to their liking--isn't that the
    Big Idea?!\r\n3. Screens are getting finer all the time.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-03 18:22:04'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "So where does the money for all of the font optimizing come from? How many
    designers will be willing to start paying a lot more for fonts, or to start buying
    print and web versions? And who\u2019s going to do all of the optimizing? "
  created: '2008-07-03 18:22:48'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "No matter how much a web designer may dwell on the intricacies of all the
    type setting variables on a particular site, it's all for naught much of the time
    as the end-user has complete control and ability to over-ride any of the design
    suggestions the designer may make.\r\n\r\nSo...I can't see having very specific
    web-optimized fonts to be a major priority for most web designers. Just having
    a few more type face options is probably the key priority.\r\n\r\nNot that we
    shouldn't push for better on-screen rendering, but by the time something might
    come of that, if we're lucky, improvements in hardware will make it somewhat moot."
  created: '2008-07-03 19:33:22'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Nick says, '... started thread ... trojan horse ... push agenda...'\r\n\r\nand
    he should know.\r\n\r\n\r\nAs to his points:\r\n\r\n>1. Typophiles idealize the
    less-than-perfect effect of old letterpress printing (i.e. the concept of a good
    type design as one that can take a lot of abuse)<\r\n\r\nThat isn't why we idealize
    letterpress printing. We idealize it because each size can be perfectly optimized,
    which on a parallel level is what David is talking about. One of these days, Nick,
    you'll read an old book, and you'll get it. \r\n\r\n\r\n>2. Users can optimize
    screen type size to their liking\u2014isn\u2019t that the Big Idea?!<\r\n\r\nNo.
    The idea is that simple scaling -- size -- doesn't work -- for a hundred and one
    reasons. We've known this since the invention of the pantograph, but every now
    and then we need to be reminded. The problems are far worse than they were because
    of the limited resolution of smaller and smaller screen devices and the very slow
    progress to higher res (see below)\r\n\r\n\r\n>3. Screens are getting finer all
    the time.<\r\n\r\nWhere? Eight years ago, in 2000, Dell offered an inexpensive,
    pathbreaking 1600x1200 display on a 15\" laptop -- that's 133 dpi. Two years later,
    Dell offered 1920x1200 -- 150 dpi -- on a 15\" machine. At present, Dell mainly
    offers 1920x1200 on a 17\" model, so we're back to 133 dpi. \r\n\r\nIn other words,
    it's been six years since, quite cheaply (BTO addition of $100-200), we could
    get 150 dpi, and now we're offered less, rather than more.\r\n\r\nNot to mention
    that it is _only_ this year that Apple finally offered a 133 dpi screen - - at
    last - - as a special BTO option on its 17\" laptop.\r\n\r\nNot to mention that
    David (and others) had been using 120 dpi CRTs since back - - when? the late 80s?
    Basically 20 years ago? I know I had them in 1992. Sigmas? And 150 dpi was available
    by the mid-90s. \r\n\r\nSo the sad truth is that in 20 years, we have not (except
    for some very high end equipment used in medical and other applications) been
    able to get much further than the 120 dpi we could achieve back then.\r\n\r\nThis
    is not, Nick, a case of screens 'getting finer all the time.'\r\n\r\nI don't know
    why the progress is so slow, but it is.\r\n\r\nBy the way, the 600 dpi LCD that
    Xerox touted quite some time ago was, it appeared on further inspection . . .
    a 150 dpi screen with subpixel anti-aliasing . . . . . . . \r\n\r\nIndeed the
    entire reason that subpixel anti-aliasing has had to be invented (I mean implemented)
    is that screen resolution has been essentially static for 20 years. Why this should
    be so, I don't know . . . . . probably mainly because most users don't care. Just
    like most users don't care about size-optimized type, whether it's in print or
    on screen. They can recognize that it is superior, but they're not going to make
    a compelling economic case for it."
  created: '2008-07-03 19:39:48'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">So where does the money for all of the font optimizing come from?\r\n\r\nMy
    conclusion is that it must now come from love. Font optimization reached its apotheosis
    in the pre-WW2 period because of the unique economics of the competition between
    Linotype and Monotype. It was the _only_ thing they could do to make viable competitive
    cases for themselves, and the payoffs were huge. Those conditions no longer exist.\r\n\r\n>Not
    that we shouldn\u2019t push for better on-screen rendering, but by the time something
    might come of that, if we\u2019re lucky, improvements in hardware will make it
    somewhat moot.\r\n\r\nI'm not so sure about that. The best technology we have
    today can barely move around pixels at 133 dpi. Suppose we actually had 600 dpi
    screens tomorrow? The video hardware just isn't up to it, not to mention the rest
    of the hardware. It could be longer than one might think - - a couple of decades?
    - - for substantial improvements to be made and purveyed cheaply.\r\n\r\nWe need
    solutions that recognize the hardware where it is. Dave Ericsson, whose DOS-based
    XyWrite, still in use, was and is legendary for speed, always tested the program
    exclusively on hardware several years out of date. Can you see Microsoft forcing
    its Office and Vista teams to use only five-year-old computers? If they did, we'd
    have much better software . . . . . \r\n"
  created: '2008-07-03 20:13:04'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"That isn\u2019t why we idealize letterpress printing.\"\r\n\r\nTrue. But
    it is why much of the general market idealizes (or even idolizes) it. \r\n\r\n\"No.
    The idea is that simple scaling \u2014 size \u2014 doesn\u2019t work\"\r\n\r\nAgain,
    true for type designers, but probably just fine for most folks.\r\n\r\n\"So the
    sad truth is that in 20 years, we have not...been able to get much further than
    the 120 dpi we could achieve back then.\"\r\n\r\n*Sigh*. That is true. Nearly
    everything in computing has improved at an exponential rate (storage sizes, memory
    sizes, processor speeds, printer quality, color depth, size) EXCEPT for display
    resolution. \r\n\r\nThat said, we're on the cusp of perhaps a long-overdue bump.
    The iPhone is at 166ppi. The Sony reader is at 170ppi. Still a long ways to go,
    but finally picking up a bit of momentum. Also keep in mind that screen ppi and
    print dpi shouldn't be compared via a 1-1 correlation given that type on paper
    is typically limited to 1 color, while a screen can take advantage of the color
    spectrum (though that does then get us back to wanting better screen optimized
    type...)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-03 20:16:01'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "It\u2019s nonsensical to claim that IE has \u224875% market share, so Microsoft
    has to go along with this business if everyone else does.\r\n\r\nFirst, which
    version of IE? 7 is much better than 6, which is barely even a browser in any
    rational definition of the term.\r\n\r\nWho\u2019s going to want to use Web fonts?
    A few Flash assholes, maybe, sure, but mostly standardistas of the Jason Santa
    Maria ilk. The only browsers they use are good ones; maybe they test certain layouts
    in IE7, but that will be it for pages that use Web fonts. Importantly, the readers
    of the sites that use Web fonts also will be using at least IE7, IE8, or, much
    more rationally, Firefox or Safari.\r\n\r\nHence, if Web fonts take off for all
    browsers other than IE*, they will have taken off for the vast majority of the
    developer audience that wants to use them and the reader audience that wants to
    look at them.\r\n\r\nP.S. I always love it when you kids use the phrase \u201CWeb
    standards.\u201D I accept that Si is using it nonironically.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe
    Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2008-07-04 02:38:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ResFairy_3926.png]'
  created: '2008-07-05 14:49:29'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "David you may be right but what about this: Regarding new graphics. Most
    web sites are re-designed every few years. That's how we went from a 800x600 web
    to a 1024x768 web. \r\n\r\nAnd since we are going to have a long tail it is likely
    that graphics/code for layout(css) will keep becoming more & more flexible. This
    is already starting to happen a bit. Probably that will continue and greater flex
    will be built in via flash and css.\r\n\r\nAnd the MS & Apple tech that lets you
    soon in to see something closer & zoom out for context is starting to see more
    & more play. That will have an impact too - although it's hard for me to say what
    it is. It will make rez specific designs harder to justify though. Sadly. I like
    the idea very much as I have said before.\r\n\r\nAlso OLEDs have made a lot of
    advances. And their rez is pretty insanely high. And could go higher. Plus they
    take less energy to run but that is a side issue except in that they will be attractive
    for that reason.\r\n\r\n200ppi is what OLED makers are starting to shoot for &
    apparently a lab somewhere has done a sample at 300ppi.\r\n\r\nSo is the \"rez
    fairy\" = 80% of people with 200ppi+ in 10 years? If I am gonna say \"I believe\"
    then I need to know what I am supposedly believing in.\r\n\r\nAnd chip speeds
    including graphics engine chips do somehow keep getting better. \r\n\r\nNone of
    this means that it will be other than a mess or even that it won't be even more
    of a mess than it is today.\r\n\r\nThe people that have a real clue about this
    are keeping mum because it's their job to do so until it's time for a marketing
    blitz.\r\n\r\nBut to sum up: What's the standard? Draw that line in the sand past
    which exists the rez fairy.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-06 02:39:57'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Berlow always acts like he knows more than us and we\u2019re fools to think
    what we do. (Actually, that\u2019s his nickname right there: David \u201CFools!\u201D
    Berlow.)\r\n\r\n I can already resize images in Firefox and Opera; who says the
    same thing can\u2019t happen system-wide when the Resolution Fairy consensually
    sprinkles his dust upon us? Mister Sandman, bring me a megapixel.\r\n\r\n\u2014
    \ \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2008-07-08 05:15:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cochin_6158.png]'
  created: '2008-07-08 06:52:32'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "Joe Clark, it's pretty bold to make a condescending statement like \u201CI
    always love it when you kids use the phrase \u2018Web standards\u2019\u201D and
    then take a swipe at Berlow with \u201CBerlow always acts like he knows more than
    us and we\u2019re fools to think what we do.\u201D\r\n\r\nNick, the handful of
    faces aren't \u201Cpreferred.\u201D There are only a [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Core_fonts_for_the_Web#The_fonts|handful
    of faces]] \u201Coffered\u201D or available for web design using CSS and HTML.
    Recall the quote from the OP \u201C...the fonts web designers want to use are
    completely off-limits...\u201D As Joe Clark can explain to you in some detail
    I'm sure, using Cochin for text means having to employ \u201Ctext as image\u201D
    or SIFR or SWF. All of those solutions can have major drawbacks \u2014 like taking
    ten hours to edit text instead of ten minutes.\r\n\r\nThe solution is pretty damn
    simple. But most of the type designers act as if the world will end if Cochin
    is allowed to be embedded and uploaded to a hosting server.\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-08 13:18:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Nick, interesting point, but your comparison is not a fair one. Using the
    graphic wipes out the hinting, and the strength of Georgia. A better comparison
    would be the Cochin in the graphic, and then the same words hinted in Georgia,
    as is the default on Typophile. '
  created: '2008-07-08 13:28:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the handful of faces aren\u2019t \u201Cpreferred.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    changed in 1996 with the introduction of version 3.2 of html.\r\nThe \"off limits\"
    refers to licensing restrictions, not technical feasibility.\r\n\r\n<em>Using
    the graphic wipes out the hinting,</em>\r\n\r\nI posted a screen grab of hinted
    text (the file was in TextEdit on my Mac).\r\nOf course, it would display differently
    on a PC.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-08 17:20:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>But most of the type designers act as if the world will end if Cochin
    is allowed to be embedded and uploaded to a hosting server.</em>\r\n\r\nWeb sites
    may be designed to use system fonts.\r\nSo, e.g. Cochin may be put at the front
    of the font specification code list, followed by Constantia.\r\nThat way, Mac
    users get Cochin, and PC users get Constantia."
  created: '2008-07-08 17:30:13'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>That way, Mac users get Cochin</cite>\r\n\r\nThat way, those Mac users
    who a) run an OS version that came with Cochin, b) haven\u2019t erased the fonts
    and c)  haven\u2019t deactivated them via a font management app get Cochin."
  created: '2008-07-08 18:33:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "This from Apple's web site re. Cochin (among much other font spam it inflicts
    upon its customers):\r\n\r\nPackage: Essential System Software\r\nInstalled: Always
    (cannot be disabled)\r\nInstallation location: /Library/Fonts"
  created: '2008-07-08 18:43:03'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>I posted a screen grab of hinted text (the file was in TextEdit on my
    Mac).</em>\r\n\r\nNick, Mac OS X ignores any hints present in the fonts. I actually
    think the result of this is surprisingly good and I can't stand the hinted Windows
    ClearType display :)\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-08 19:33:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I like the Mac OS rasterization too.\r\n\r\nThe Mac OS X ignores most of
    the hints in a font, but I have detected slight differences, at some sizes, between
    fonts I've generated with and without hints and values for alignment zones and
    stem widths.\r\n\r\nI have no idea how the Mac OS X rasterization works, but I
    assume it performs autohinting, therefore it is correct to say that text displayed
    in OS X is hinted."
  created: '2008-07-08 20:23:29'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "Nick Shinn, <em> \u201Cand PC users get Constantia.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nI appreciate
    where you are going, but once a web designer departs the handful of universal
    fonts there are caveats galore. Constantia is only on PCs with Vista and/or Office
    2007."
  created: '2008-07-08 20:39:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> ...caveats galore.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat's wrong with having a web site display
    with a different text face to different users?\r\nNot everyone went to school
    in Olympia.\r\nBesides, there's no brand singularity in the first place if everyone
    is using Georgia and Verdana.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-08 21:25:08'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Joe Clark writes, \r\n\r\n>Berlow always acts like he knows more than us
    and we\u2019re fools to think what we do. (Actually, that\u2019s his nickname
    right there: David \u201CFools!\u201D Berlow.)<\r\n\r\nHe doesn't know it, but
    he's echoing something one of the late great men of type, the much-loved Robert
    Norton (who among other things in a long, important life in type brought Matthew
    Carter to Microsoft if memory serves) wrote about David Berlow more than 15 years
    ago:\r\n\r\n\"We first learned to love Berlow when he was at Bitstream, when we
    could rely on him for ironic comments on whatever show or seminar we happened
    to be at. It became harder to love him as his career progressed and Font Bureau
    was started and shouldered its way into what is known as the 'leading ledge' of
    font technology and it became clear that he was getting to know more than the
    rest of us. Perhaps the reason we are still delighted to eat with him is that
    he hasn't yet got round to rubbing our noses in it.\"\r\n\r\nJoe, nothing has
    changed. Berlow still knows more than the rest of us - - and he still doesn't
    rub our noses in it - - even when they're a bit snotty.\r\n\r\nNick, reading your
    post, it seems your insight is that Cochin is more readable than Georgia. Am I
    misreading something?\r\n\r\nGosh! At this rate, maybe someday someone somewhere
    will call me polite.\r\n\r\nAgain, for those actually interested in learning something
    new . . . . www.rogerblack.com has got some cool stuff.\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-09 00:16:02'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "For anyone interested in finding out more about Robert Norton, John Berry's
    article is a starting point . . . . \r\n\r\nhttp://www.creativepro.com/article/dot-font-the-mischievous-mind-behind-microsoft-s-truetype-fonts\r\n\r\nThe
    first paragraph reads,\r\n\r\n'For a few short years in the early 1990s, Robert
    Norton had a decisive influence on something the great majority of us use and
    take for granted: the typefaces that accompanied a whole slew of Microsoft software
    products, including Microsoft Windows and software available for the Mac. Norton
    was \"the cornerstone of Microsoft's type group,\" as Nicolas Barker put it in
    his obituary in the \"Independent.\" He was largely responsible for the selection
    and creation of typefaces for Windows and all other Microsoft software, including
    Word and Office.'\r\n\r\nNorton did a lot of big things. One of them was saving
    Monotype from disappearing; without him, one can now see, there would be no Monotype,
    no Agfa, no Linotype. And so much else. And yet could take time out to critique
    something as unimportant as my early work which, by the way, Joe Clarke 'disapproved'
    of. "
  created: '2008-07-09 00:46:47'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Besides, there\u2019s no brand singularity in the first place if everyone
    is using Georgia and Verdana.</cite>\r\n\r\nTell that to all the corporate identity
    designers charging clients to select Georgia or Verdana as a \u201Ctertiary\u201D
    font."
  created: '2008-07-09 01:03:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>it seems your insight is that Cochin is more readable than Georgia. Am
    I misreading something?</em>\r\n\r\nI don't believe typefaces have inherent readability.\r\nNothing
    happens till a face is set in a particular layout and read by a particular person
    in a particular environment.\r\nFor this thread, following David's lead, I set
    Cochin small in TextEdit, compared it with Georgia, and rather liked the effect
    of its small x-height. \r\nPerhaps it is like an amber ale, great in small amounts--but
    then, the Web is all about a tipple here, a tipple there.\r\nWhy drown in the
    same old fonts all the time?"
  created: '2008-07-09 02:24:44'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "The OP; \u201CThis session description, was on the TypeCon web site.\u201D\r\n\r\nWas
    this discussion held? Any new ideas from it?\r\n\r\nI've been creating CSS/HTML
    pricing, description and model# tables for a manufacturer. Nick Shinn\u2019s comments
    got to me, so I thought I'd step out and try Trebuchet, but it just didn't work.
    My preferred choice, if I had the freedom to do so, would have been Avenir. Instead
    all of the tables are set with Verdana \u2014 again. "
  created: '2008-07-21 20:48:45'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "David, I believe in the Resolution Fairy. Webpages? Safari will scale 'em.
    They'll be a bit fuzzier than the UI because the display will be re-rendering
    the whole appearance of the webpage while still making the links and stuff work.
    It will probably take a 32-core processor and 8GB or RAM to do this. Fortunately,
    these things are only a couple years away. Storage for all these graphics? My
    first computer had a 100MB hard drive. My current setup, which is actually fairly
    modest includes 1TB of storage, approximately 10,000 times the capacity. In a
    couple years I'll plug in a 100TB drive and wonder where my free space went. \r\n\r\nApple,
    and maybe others will do this. Why? They have to keep selling computers to stay
    in business. They can't just sell me one computer and be done with it. They have
    to convince me to buy 4 or 5 computers per decade. They rewrote almost everything
    to get me to buy OS X, and I had to buy new hardware to run it. They'll rewrite
    everything again soon so that I have to buy more hardware. Replace my LCD? Oh,
    yeah. Apple would prefer I do this each product cycle. Huge, publicly traded companies
    are depending on me to throw away everything I currently have. I would type more,
    but I have to go stand in line to buy a new iPhone. "
  created: '2008-07-21 21:47:15'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Was this discussion held? Any new ideas from it?\r\n\r\nYes, it did. I'll
    start a new thread on it."
  created: '2008-07-22 16:05:46'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: ">They have to convince me to buy 4 or 5 computers per decade. \r\n\r\nWell,
    they don't need to improve their resolution to convince people to do that. People
    do that already\u2026 even I do that already. I've bought four Mac laptops: 1999,
    2003, 2006 (beginning), 2007 (end). Before 2009, I might not buy another one.
    But in 2010? If I were Apple, I'd make that wager\u2026\r\n\r\nPlus, I've bough
    two iPods (2003, 2006), and I'm planning on getting an iPhone 3G in November.
    Come to think about it, the iPhone is almost like a computer\u2026"
  created: '2008-07-22 16:11:46'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">People do that already\u2026 even I do that already.\r\n\r\nA new thread
    on typophiler's contribution to computerific land-fill? How many machines have
    you gone through and where did they end-up? recycled? in the basement? In some
    Chinese landfill? "
  created: '2008-07-22 16:41:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"How many machines have you gone through\"\r\n\r\nI tend to keep mine for
    several years. I bought my first computer in 1989. I am on my 3rd right now and
    I expect at least 3 more years out of it. I gave my old ones to schools.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-22 16:47:26'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I'll start a new thread before David come back and tells us all off for going
    OT.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2008-07-22 17:00:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Whoops, sorry, Si.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-22 17:03:52'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Sii, I try to do my best about the landfill. When my first laptop died I sold
    it to a repair shop (who wanted to take it apart) for $100. When so much of my
    second laptop died, I gave it to my mother, who had much of it repaired at her
    own costs, and now she can use it as a stationary machine. My third laptop still
    hasn't died, and lives in Berlin, being periodically used. I'm still using my
    fourth every day ;-) As for my first iPod, well, that probably is in a landfill
    somewhere.
  created: '2008-07-22 17:28:49'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ColumnA_6740.png]'
  created: '2008-07-22 21:43:35'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Roger Black mentioned that the problem with creating web fonts for a specific
    size is that you can't control people re-sizing the page. No?
  created: '2008-07-22 22:13:09'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I believe that part of David's concept is to use OpenType layout features
    to dynamically substitute the appropriate outline from within a single font when
    the display size is changed.\r\n\r\nThe OT optical size feature {size} is already
    registered and is described on this page: http://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/features_pt.htm\r\n\r\nSo
    far, I don't think there's any support for it. But that doesn't mean it couldn't
    be done.\r\n\r\nAs I said, this is my interpretation. David can correct me if
    I'm wrong on this point.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-22 22:49:45'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I hadn't heard that part. That is interesting. Thanks, Kent.
  created: '2008-07-22 23:07:05'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I may be reading between the lines -- maybe too much, even; I can't recall
    what I read that lead me to this. I think it was something David wrote on Roger's
    blog.\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2008-07-23 00:27:51'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Tiff - \"Roger Black mentioned that the problem with creating web fonts for
    a specific size is that you can\u2019t control people re-sizing the page. No?\"\r\n\r\nMore
    to the point however, the type designer/manufacturer can\u2019t control people
    re-sizing the TYPE. It hardly matters though, if you can 'give them' any size.
    \r\n\r\nThis 'any size' problem is what TrueType Technology and TrueType Outline
    Fonts, were invented for, before being seized upon with greedy paws that liken
    eyeballs to dust. \r\n\r\nWhat I showed on RB's site was: IF, TrueType Technology
    and TrueType Outline Font hints 'worked' across anti-aliasing platforms, then
    this is what it could look like.\r\n\r\nWhat the first Latin letterpresser, (ever),
    did, was similar: IF, someone can figure out how to mass produce metal letters
    cheaply, then this is what letters pressed to paper with ink between, could look
    like.\r\n\r\nThat old guy, just didn't have the where-with-all to get there, but
    his successors did a fine job for hundreds of years after his proof.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-24 15:38:16'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "What David is saying is this -- I think: \r\n\r\nYou are sitting in front
    of a 24\" monitor that has 1920x1200 resolution. You are sitting exactly two feet
    away. You are looking at ten point type that is (let's say) 15 pixels high at
    nominal '100%' magnification. This particular type is 100% optimized for this
    absolutely particular viewing situation.\r\n\r\nIF you change _either_ the _viewing
    distance_, or the _magnification_, you will only get _optimal viewing_ if the
    _type parameters_ (design) change as well.\r\n\r\nWe can and should be able to
    implement this. It is what was achieved in letterpress for carefully calculated
    average viewing distances. (Same principle in photographic/optical depth of field
    calculations, all of which have are calibrated for an 'average' viewing distance
    which the person calculating depth of field can control if he disagrees with received
    wisdom.) \r\n\r\nAbout 8 years ago, someone from the MS typography group stated,
    on the OpenType list, that optical size masters in multiple master fonts were
    not needed because truetype and Postscript fonts are _scalable_. This seemed to
    reflect MS values at the time. Now older and wiser, it may be time to rethink
    this. \r\n\r\nIn the infancy of pantographic use, types were designed at different
    sizes from a single master, and the effect was exactly the same as simple type
    scaling is today. But once the competition heated up, and good optical scaling
    became a competitive agenda, the great era of Lino and Mono optical scaling began
    (let's say roughly 1920 to 1960) and there was a substantially different design
    for every type size (give or take a point). \r\n\r\nCould something like this
    happen again? Yes, if someone cared to demonstrate that optically-optimized design
    really could enhance not just print but screen reading, and that there was a practical
    way to implement this cross-browser, cross-platform, cross-rendering system.\r\n\r\nBut
    I have to say, until you know what size monitor, resolution, and viewing distance
    are, you can't set optimal parameters. The solution is for the system to be able
    to know the monitor size and resolution and for an average viewing distance to
    be used which could, by user control, be changed. All of this is possible.\r\n\r\nWe
    would then have screen/print reading experiences that were superior to what we
    have now. \r\n\r\nIt is inevitable that this will happen. There comes a point
    when you run out of creditable new features and you have to go back to multiple
    master/variation type. \r\n\r\nCoincidentally, tech news blogs are filled with
    the news that MS is investing 500 million dollars (!@!!!) to advertise that Vista
    isn't really as bad as everyone thinks it is.\r\n\r\nAnyone care, now, to bet
    on how long it will take MS to discover optically optimized type? Better start
    reading letterpress books, those of you who want to make some $$$ on the new crest
    that will emerge sometime in the next three or four years."
  created: '2008-07-24 19:30:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "A person can look at printed type from many distances, and there is always
    sharp detail.\r\nSo the optimum reading distance has little to do with resolution.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    when one views a monitor, the optimum distance is very much dependent on resolution:
    it is that distance ever so slightly beyond the threshold of being able to discern
    the LCD grid. In other words, the reader is as close to the image (figure) as
    possible without the grid (ground) interfering.\r\n\r\nIs this correct?"
  created: '2008-07-24 19:41:57'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Is this correct?\r\n\r\nSorry, no.\r\n\r\n>A person can look at printed
    type from many distances, and there is always sharp detail.\r\n\r\nSharp detail
    per se is not what we're looking at (just as in photography, we're looking at
    edge sharpness rather than 'resolution').\r\n\r\nWe're going way beyond that:
    optimum viewing experience through optimum design of type for that size. Nick,
    study enlarged samples of metal Bembo (or Times New Roman) from 6 or 7 points
    up to 14 points, and you'll get one corner of the argument. \r\n\r\n>So the optimum
    reading distance has little to do with resolution.\r\n\r\nWe're not talking about
    optimum reading distance, but optimum font design for a given size and magnification
    of font at a given reading distance. The term is 'average reading distance' --
    that is, the distance at which most people are going to view a book or monitor.
    Resolution, at this point, doesn't even enter into the argument. For these purposes,
    we can temporarily assume that resolution is almost infinite (as indeed, is just
    beginning to happen, as you pointed out in another recent thread). \r\n\r\n>However,
    when one views a monitor, the optimum distance is very much dependent on resolution:
    it is that distance ever so slightly beyond the threshold of being able to discern
    the LCD grid. In other words, the reader is as close to the image (figure) as
    possible without the grid (ground) interfering.\r\n\r\nThat's not a useful formula
    either, because it dictates that the higher the resolution, the closer you will
    sit to the monitor. So: if you have a 75 dpi monitor, say, it's two feet; if it's
    150 dpi, it's one foot; at 300 dpi, it's six inches. You see why that's wrong?
    \r\n\r\nI'm going out on a limb here, but I think David could not be making the
    points he's making if he was worrying about resolution. I think the fact that
    we're getting beyond resolution per se is one of the key things we have to consider
    as we plan for better type (more pleasing, more legible) in the next decade or
    two.\r\n\r\nResolution is a significant part of the story, but it's not the major
    part. We also can't begin to calculate average reading distance per se without
    considering the size of the monitor. If it's 100 dpi and 15 inches, there will
    be one distance; if it's 100 dpi and 30 inches, there will be another distance.\r\n\r\nThere's
    a lot to consider, but optical optimization (different design for different sizes)
    is foremost.\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-24 21:57:11'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Why is resolution secondary? Because it doesn't come first.\r\n\r\nConsider
    letterpress. Resolution is almost unlimited, provided that print size and print
    quality are appropriately matched. Yet you cannot have good quality unless you
    have different designs for each size. So that's our primary concern, our cornerstone,
    in thinking through the system.\r\n\r\nOnce that is settled, _then_ is the time
    you have to consider resolution, because you can't throw fonts at the system that
    it can't resolve well. Historically, Microsoft has been less interested in knowing
    a lot of specifics about the user's system because it had too many systems to
    support, unlike Apple. But there is no reason to suppose that Microsoft will continue
    in this way as display systems evolve. Microsoft is likely to do whatever it takes
    to be at the forefront and I believe already has most of the technology in place
    to do this. \r\n\r\nFurthermore, the concern up til now has been worldwide support
    of languages. Solving this has been far from easy, and has been much more important
    than anything else. People who understood this early -- John Hudson was the one
    who got it soonest and got it best -- have done well in this period. But that
    is almost done now. \r\n\r\nSo what next? \r\n\r\nOne OS or the other is going
    to have a superior font technology sometime within the next decade. The others
    will follow suit because they won't have a choice.\r\n\r\nAt that point, OS makers
    will be competing for superior visual experience in just the way that Mono and
    Lino did in the early to mid-20th century. I worry that the three people in the
    font business who really understand optical optimization -- Carter, Stone, and
    Berlow -- won't necessarily be interested in participating by the time their expertise
    is needed. But people got the expertise quickly in the early 20th century when
    they needed it. They'll get it again, when they have to. It's all happened before.
    We're almost literally tracking, for the screen, what people were doing with print
    exactly a hundred years ago. 'Eternal recurrence of the same' anyone? "
  created: '2008-07-25 13:31:48'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"You are sitting exactly two feet away.\"\r\n\r\nI'm not so much concerned
    about reader distance in this area, which is why I've put the required care into
    sizes from 8 to 16 pixels. \r\n\r\nI'm also not so much concerned about optical
    sizes, as I am with optimal sizes. \r\n\r\nI make rounding decisions based on
    basic optical sizing principles, but at 'the bottom' there isn't much room for
    whole pixel changes. Weight, I do them all, so that's optically done. Cap hts
    are to the max and x-ht is too. So, only the spacing and the width are open for
    optical improvements, and again, there I'm going after all useful spacing and
    width solutions in text.\r\n\r\n\"... the reader is as close to the image (figure)
    as possible without the grid (ground) interfering.\"\r\n\r\nI believe this is
    correct Nick, but that the grid is 'everywhere', as you know. Users naturally
    gravitate to a distance where smoothness wins. Unfortunately, CT, with it's double
    rendering, is quite frequently smoothing pre-obfuscated contours to the point
    where the type is spineless mush, except for mine, and Verdana at 11, which is
    what it was drawn for. I've found myself trying to find a correct size/distance
    ratio on Vista, that never becomes comfortable. It looks like a-a type, but it
    ain't quite. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-25 14:47:11'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: If you could make a single OT font with the ability to pick an appropriate
    "state" for itself based on the size it was set ( or possibly other factors as
    well) that would be a deeply fine thing indeed.
  created: '2008-07-26 01:20:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Sharp detail per se is not what we\u2019re looking at</em>\r\n\r\nYes
    it is.\r\nThe eye focuses on what it's looking at.\r\nWith printed type, especially
    letterpress, the reader can read from a variety of distances and focus on a sharp
    image.\r\nBut monitors don't work like that, because anti-aliased text is never
    sharp.\r\n\r\nSo, you're looking at text on screen, and it's blurry, because it's
    anti-aliased.\r\nDetail is missing.\r\nWhat's the natural thing to do in this
    circumstance?\r\nMove closer, under the assumption, which works elsewhere in the
    world, that this will reveal more detail. \r\nSo you move closer until the grid
    starts to interfere, to the point \"where smoothness wins\".\r\nThis has nothing
    to do with fonts and reading, it's basic physiology.\r\n\r\nJust a theory.\r\nI
    wonder if there are any studies on reading distances for computer screens of different
    resolution and size."
  created: '2008-07-26 02:36:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There is also the effect of increased light intensity being fired at your
    eyes from close proximity of a screen. This affects my comfort level.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-26 03:14:42'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">There is also the effect of increased light intensity being fired at your
    eyes from close proximity of a screen. This affects my comfort level.\r\n\r\nChris,
    that's extremely important, and often overlooked by people who didn't transition
    from non-GUI to GUI.\r\n\r\nThat's why a small group of users (including me) still
    use DOS-based XyWrite (which works fine under Vista and is usable on Mac and Linux)
    for writing. The black screen with white letters is still considerably less straining.
    This is a problem that the GUI world has yet to solve. \r\n\r\nOne of the reasons,
    of course, why the early GUI's were black text on white is that it makes fonts
    look perceptibly sharper."
  created: '2008-07-26 09:37:53'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Move closer, under the assumption, which works elsewhere in the world, that
    this will reveal more detail.\r\n\r\nNick, this is absolute nonsense. You've apparently
    not recently worked in a large office. Everyone who employs people who are to
    look at screens all day has a great interest in keeping those people healthy:
    not producing vision problems, repetitive motion injuries, etc. To this end, computer
    operators (e.g. secretaries) often are (and all should be) given guidance as to
    posture, proper viewing distance, etc. The screen is not there to dictate the
    distance. It is the _image_  that dictates the distance. And if the distance is
    wrong, you change the image. That's what computers are for.\r\n\r\nThe 'formula'
    -- hitherto undisclosed? -- whereby viewing distance decreases as resolution increases
    is nonsense and if taken seriously would give rise to potentially irreversible
    injury. If you insist on clinging to it, at least give us some references. IF,
    by the remotest chance, you have read this somewhere -- and do please cite --
    I think you will find that the system being studied did not have scalable type.
    Since all systems for the past umpteen years have had scalable type, this is not
    relevant. The ONLY system where you would have to move closer as resolution increases
    is one where type size also decreases. That is not the case today. We adjust the
    type size upwards as resolution increases. \r\n\r\nPlease consider also that many
    computer operators will be wearing glasses which dictate the proper viewing distance
    - - typically between two and three feet, 18-24 inches, whatever. \r\n\r\n\"When
    we look at any close object, our eyes do two things: They accommodate and converge.
    Both of these can contribute to eyestrain. (Collins 1975 and Fischer 1977).\"
    \r\n\r\n(See http://www.office-ergo.com/viewing.htm for example, for some factual
    information on optimum viewing distances.)\r\n\r\nAs to this interesting point
    that anti-aliased type is not sharp, and therefore users move closer to monitors,
    this betrays a miscomprehension of perceived sharpness. Most of the world is happily
    sitting much further away from its monitors, thanks to anti-aliased type and most
    particularly ClearType, whatever its other faults may be. And this is a good thing.\r\n\r\nThe
    reason why I am typing this comfortably on a high resolution screen from three
    feet away at a small point size is that ClearType is so good that it looks sharp,
    tiny, from three feet away. Hundreds of millions are happily sharing the same
    experience at this very moment.\r\n\r\nIt is not, as Kodak discovered in the early
    1950s (see the early studies on acutance by Jones et al.; the later ones on M(odulation)
    T(ransfer) F(unction)), conventionally measurable sharpness that is important.
    It is what the eye perceives as sharpness. And nearly all of us find good anti-aliased
    type vastly sharper. This lets us have a good computing experience with proper
    posture and comfortable viewing distance. \r\n\r\nThe various anti-aliasing systems
    may be open to criticism. But what is not open to question is the fact that for
    the vast majority of users, anti-aliasing is, literally, a blessing which lets
    us sit further from our machines. And the further away the better. That is what
    we want; that is what a good office will insist upon; that is accepted ergonomic
    practice.\r\n\r\nFinally, Chris, back to the excessive brightness of today's GUIs.
    It is not generally known that most monitors are set far too bright. Guidance
    as to their proper setting in given environments can be found at www.displaymate.com\r\n\r\nAnd
    now, could we get back to the question how to make our viewing experiences even
    better? "
  created: '2008-07-26 10:22:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...make a single OT font with the ability to pick an appropriate \u201Cstate\u201D
    for itself...\"\r\n\r\nA fine thing indeed. But don't confuse OT with TT-flavored
    OT. T1 Flavored OT is hopeless for this. \r\nDivisions, divisions, divisions.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-07-26 12:58:48'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'David, could you enumerate the reasons why OT/T1 is hopeless for this? Also
    when you mentioned width as one of your parameters, do you mean width as in sidebearings
    or width as in varying the actual width of the glyph? '
  created: '2008-07-26 15:47:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks Bill, I have adjusted my FontLab preferences to set the background
    to grey, and will try and sit further away.\r\n\r\nBut is it possible to change
    the colors of the \"quick-key preview\" from black and white? (Hitting the\"grave
    accent\" key.)"
  created: '2008-07-26 16:24:40'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">FontLab preferences to set the background to grey, \r\n\r\nThat's a brilliant
    idea, I never thought of it. Maybe that's why I'm spending more time writing,
    less time designing. \r\n\r\n>and will try and sit further away.\r\n\r\nYou have
    to! And if you're nearsighted, and wear specs for 20/20, you can get a weaker
    prescription optimized for 2-3 feet if you have to spend a lot of time in front
    of screens.\r\n\r\nOne of the problems with Fontlab is that a lot of onscreen
    information you need is not visible unless you're 6-12 inches from the screen
    - - Fog somehow does this much better.\r\n\r\nThe white screen really is an occupational
    hazard for font designers. Oh well. The sublime Bram de Does had to give up all
    his letterpress kit last year because of a lead allergy. "
  created: '2008-07-26 18:02:52'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Bill: \"... OT/T1 is hopeless for this?\"\r\n\r\nT1 doesn't use the TT instruction
    language, and in a pinch, it won't allow em resolution greater than 1000. \r\nSo,
    one does not have explicit enough hints to address the lower resolutions. TT has
    'instructions'. In extreme designs, like very thin, heavy, wide or condensed,
    one runs out of resolution \u2014\_places to put points at 1000 are not so easy
    in extreme faces, in the T1 flavor, (which is probably why one doesn't see much
    stylistic extremism coming from 300 dpi-o-centic T1-only founders.\r\n\r\n\"..do
    you mean width as in sidebearings or width as in varying the actual width of the
    glyph?\"\r\nThese two things are inseparable, if I understand the question. \r\n\r\nSii:
    \"... before David come[s] back and tells us all off for going OT\" \r\nI don't
    think I've done that, nor will I... ever.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-07-28 12:23:25'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Interesting discussion\u2026 As a designer I know what I aim for in the reading
    experience. I call it \u2018even colour\u2019. I want the page to look balanced
    (or not, but that is intentionally) by using various cuts and sizes that balance
    out. A crude way to measure this is by looking thru your eyelashes, when details
    fall away and the tonality of a design appears.\r\n\r\nI think that this principle
    could be applied to the reading experience of a page (text) on a screen. A computer
    could compute the \u2018colour\u2019 of the image on the monitor. It should even
    be able to set a personal preference that would change the parameters of the display
    of type on the fly. Eg I zoom in, and the type adjusts to even out the colour,
    with finer serifs, less letterspacing, perhaps a different level of anti-aliasing,
    etcetera.\r\n\r\nComputational power has increased enormously, so it would be
    feasible to inroduce this kind of intelligence. Or am I wrong?\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert
    Vanderveen BNO\r\n\r\n\r\nPS Example right here: in it\u2019s standard form the
    Georgia I see now does not have enough contrast due to the gray background Typophile
    employs. Hitting the Plus-key two times solves that, but introduces a new problem:
    not enough text in my viewport. In other words: Typophiles design does not scale
    well."
  created: '2008-07-28 13:15:22'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Bert, I really can''t agree. I think it''s just because the contrast is lower
    that the site is a comfortable read where people are tempted to spend time. --
    i.e., attempting to distinguish between one second''s worth of peak legibility
    as a different phenomenon than two hours worth of comfortable legibility. High
    contrast is always a knockout, grab ''em right away phenomenon. But it costs:
    it costs all the subtleties of micro-gradation, it costs long-term viewing comfort,
    etc. etc. High contrast is for the moment; lower contrast is for the whole day,
    as I see it.'
  created: '2008-07-28 21:03:26'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">These two things are inseparable, if I understand the question. \r\n\r\nTotally
    brilliant answer - - a classic. Like when panicky newspaper designer in way above
    his head asks MC at what point in the process he does fitting, and MC replies,
    'when I'm first designing the letter'. \r\n\r\nWhat I thought might be possible,
    as size goes down, is scheme whereby interletter space was being increased without
    necessarily changing the shape of the letter, analogous to positive tracking.
    \r\n\r\nI had thought there were ways to get around the T1 1000 em, but I guess
    they're not reliable? So, it's the too-small design space and the lack of instructions?
    As simple as that? You would think, by now, T1 would have evolved somewhat. Also
    at some point I thought I was given to understand by David Lemon that some kind
    of floating point direction was capable of being accepted by Postscript. But what
    interpreters would respect that, and when? I can't think why the system doesn't
    simply evolve. Why not give T1 a fabulous instruction set, open up the em, and
    build in some of the TT-Variations-like-stuff that Adobe was internally testing
    way back when as a kind of super multiple master in T1? I guess it was intended
    to be MM 2.0? "
  created: '2008-07-28 21:43:01'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I had thought there were ways to get around the T1 1000 em, but I guess
    they\u2019re not reliable?\"\r\nWell, one can use any Emsize in the world in development,
    but then when you make fonts, the scaling is done unhinted.\r\n\r\n\"So, it\u2019s
    the too-small design space and the lack of instructions?\"\r\nAre you talking
    about ClearType now? Same problem, after all, too-small design space borne of
    not enough resolution, and a lack-o-instruction as to which instructions work...
    \r\n\r\n\"I can\u2019t think why the system doesn\u2019t simply evolve.\"\r\nBecause,
    sadly, and as several famous authors are beginning to write about, 'somebody'
    wants technology to win the race between technology and education. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-30 11:53:48'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Well, one can use any Emsize in the world in development, but then when
    you make fonts, the scaling is done unhinted.\r\n\r\nah - - - \r\n\r\nDavid, is
    that related to what I learnt ages ago - - that when a T1 font goes outside the
    1000 em space, the interpreter automatically scales it to 1000? If so, when that
    happens, hints are always lost? (of course, of course) And does that happen with
    Adobe Caslon which I think goes slightly out of the 1000 em space? \r\n\r\nAnd
    here I thought all these live long days, and years, that I was right to cleave
    to T1 and support it any way I could. Such that I don't even know how to edit
    in TT ! \r\n\r\nOK, well here's a practical question. I have a family in Fog 4/5
    outlines that uses floating point points to advantage. In the display master,
    there are plenty of small distances like 3.4 units that one really wouldn't want
    to round off to 3. \r\n\r\nIf I want to continue working on this project, what's
    my best move forward with my existing data - - convert to TT with a larger em
    space, thus preserving much of my data's integrity, and then ultimately package
    as .otf and hope that nobody knows it isn't PS? (since everybody 'knows' somehow
    that good printing is always done with PS fonts?) \r\n\r\nAnd all of that said,
    what do I have to do to make sure that a really high-res TT font gets accurately
    printed and not somehow rounded off into converted T1? \r\n\r\nIt's amazing to
    have to ask the questions in 2008 - - you would have thought it would all be obvious
    now - - that problems like this simply could not exist. . . . "
  created: '2008-07-30 12:56:38'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"when a T1 font goes outside the 1000 em space, the interpreter automatically
    scales it to 1000? \"\r\nI don't think this happens. The 1,000 em is defined in
    an 8,000 universe, into which all the points must fit.  TT has a similar situation,
    where it has a huge universal value (16k or 32k?) 'surrounding' the 2048, (or
    whatever your TT em is), that also cannot be exceeded by point positions. Now,
    if your instructions take a point beyond the universe... you'd have to ask Jefferson
    Starship, over at MS.\r\n\r\n\"If so, when that happens, hints are always lost?\"\r\nIn
    order for them to be 'lost', they'd have there in the first place. Hints are only
    added at output of the product, and are (sadly to this futurist), not used in
    the design process, only defined there by (hu)man or machine for use at output,
    or not.\r\n\r\n\"...have a family in Fog 4/5 outlines that uses floating point
    points to advantage.\"\r\nI'm not sure what the advantage is.\r\n\r\n\"In the
    display master, there are plenty of small distances like 3.4 units that one really
    wouldn\u2019t want to round off to 3.\"\r\nBut do round to 3 when you generate
    T1 fonts... This is not a big deal, this 3.4 to 3.0, unless you have a bunch of
    3.x that you want to 'round together' and some are more than 3.499999, or whatever
    FOG not/3.5 does with all that, in my opinion wastefully useless resolution. This
    extra-super-high-resolution in Fog not/3.5 issue, was stupidly keeping up with
    a 1990 URW claim that more is more, and if you don't have it you can't make it.
    \r\n\r\nIt's now a dead issue, except in Fog not/3.5. The cleverest way to define
    the resolution of a font is to do so at the resolution or within the range you
    expect the use to be, but only if you don't know exact the size/res combination(s).
    So, if you expect PS use, design on a 1000 em, (not 10,000 or a million), and
    thus be sure that what points you placed will Stay! until the user needs to scale
    them. And then, you pray for resolution on their output. Or, if you think their
    output is a lot less than 1,000 per em, hint. Or finally, if you think their output
    is a whole lot less than 1,000, convert to TT and a 512, 1024 or 2048 em, and
    write instructions. All of this is advice to the picky, until resolution fails,
    not needless to say.\r\n\r\n\"...what do I have to do to make sure that a really
    high-res TT font gets accurately printed and not somehow rounded off into converted
    T1?\"\r\nMove to Mars, take up ice fishing, or etc.\r\n\r\n\"- - you would have
    thought it would all be obvious now - - that problems like this simply could not
    exist. . . .\"\r\nFont format development by slow, stubborn, and sustained accretion,
    leaves tons of problems. It used to be called \"Font Wars\", but for marketing
    reasons, now it's called \"OpenType.\"\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-30 15:53:49'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Bill, I think you're confusing Type1 and OpenType here, and you mean <em>OpenType
    CFF</em> when you say <em>Type1,</em> right? As far as I know, there is no other
    limitation for upm values than that it must be between 16 and 16384 in OpenType
    fonts, no matter if they have TT or PS outlines (but powers of 2 are recommended
    for TT outlines).\r\n\r\nSo for your 3.4 units at 1000 upm, you should set an
    upm size where it rounds to a full unit, for absolute precision you would need
    17 units on a 5000 upm grid.\r\n\r\nJens"
  created: '2008-07-30 16:01:22'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "[deleted by author]\r\n\r\nReminder to self: Don't respond to Bill Troop's
    baiting. No matter how false or misleading his statements or \"questions\" are.\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-30 17:38:23'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">No matter how false or misleading his statements or \u201Cquestions\u201D
    are.\r\n\r\nDoes that mean you don't know the answer, Thomas? And not that anyone
    asked you. When I need to know something from Adobe, I go a few levels higher.
    And speaking of misleading, why don't you do something about those shocking blogs
    of yours which tell everyone to ditch pre-CFF and MM? I think I finally get it
    about MS: those fonts will always be supported. It's one thing, Thomas, to be
    a trusted provider of technical information. It's another to spread misinformation,
    like 'I sure wouldn't buy a font in Mac or Windows Type 1 or Mac TrueType format
    today'; 'Type 1 is a thoroughly obsolete format'; 'so saying that Windows Vista
    won't support Type 1 is not exactly true' -- I'm quoting from your official Adobe-sponsored
    legal-approved blogs.\r\n\r\n>you mean OpenType CFF when you say Type1,\r\n\r\nYes,
    Jens, kind of. I guess I should just say Postscript. My fault for not clarifying
    that I use T1 generally to mean any PS, and also use T1 specifically to mean pre-CFF-T1
    when discussing scaling from greater than 1000 down to 1000. Obviously I need
    to be more precise. What David Lemon told me in the early 90s was that a font
    that exceeds 1000 units vertically will be automatically scaled down to 1000,
    and that it would be OK to exceed 1000 but not recommended. At that time, very
    few Adobe fonts did this, but Adobe Caslon was one of them. What does that do
    to hinting? \r\n\r\nAnd thank you very much for your advice. But how do I resolve
    that it appears to conflict with David's?  \r\n\r\n>It used to be called \u201CFont
    Wars\u201D, but for marketing reasons, now it\u2019s called \u201COpenType.\u201D\r\n\r\nDavid,
    that's the funniest thing I have ever heard about OT in these 12 long years. \r\nThank
    you. Laughing is more important than anything, even type. Et maintenant, il faut
    cultiver notre jardin. "
  created: '2008-07-30 20:18:18'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"... in the early 90s [...] a font that exceeds 1000 units vertically will
    be automatically scaled down to 1000...\"\r\n\r\nThat was an application issue
    I believe, related to a problem most apps have solved without scaling the glyph.\r\n\r\n\"What
    does that do to hinting?\"\r\nMy understanding was that it threw out the hinting
    when this scaling was done to the glyph. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-07-31 13:10:06'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Merci -- so it will have happened in the past, throwing out hinting, but
    doesn''t happen now? '
  created: '2008-07-31 15:32:33'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Speaking of hinting, discarded or otherwise, leads me to a question posed
    by the location of the dot in i of Berthold Bembo. The extreme left of the dot
    is located at 75.5 PS units. This is of course accomplished by not having a collinear
    left point. \r\n\r\nIn my very first PS fonts, I used to digitize like this, convinced
    that I needed to be in these intermediate spaces for reasons of aesthetic purity.
    However, I was soon convinced to stop this practice, on the grounds that proper
    PS hinting could not occur even in the absence of collinear points. Later on,
    in the late 90s when I was working with Adobe, I was told that, for example, it
    was not necessary to worry about having collinearity at the edge of a rounded
    serif, but that it was important for the main features of a glyph.\r\n\r\nWhere
    are we now?  ?  ?  ?\r\n\r\nIn this era of anti-aliased screen type, what do we
    have to worry about in simple PostScript? _Should_ the extrema of the dot in i
    invariably be located with a collinear point? What else should we, and should
    we not, worry about with contemporary rendering technologies? I mean of course
    on a very basic level. Most of us are not hinting experts and will not have the
    budget to send our fonts to hinting experts. \r\n\r\nThe advantage of abandoning
    collinearity is that you have the ability to get into intermediate spaces off
    the T1 1000 grid that would otherwise not be accessible. Under what circumstances
    does this advantage, visible in a font editor, translate into actual printable
    utility? What are the disadvantages? "
  created: '2008-08-01 12:45:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Where are we now? ? ? ?\"\r\nThe same place. If T1 hinting does not effect
    a particular kind of feature, or the points that describe it, then its point locations
    are not important. On a very basic level, if you are targeting PS output at resolutions
    higher than 600 with fonts bigger than 6 pt, don't worry. \r\n\r\n\"The advantage
    of abandoning collinearity is that you have the ability to get into intermediate
    spaces off the T1 1000 grid that would otherwise not be accessible.\"\r\nWhat
    intermediate spaces off the T1 1000?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-01 12:54:11'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "And a related question: where is flex now? The rule used to be that the lowest
    points of a cupped serif had to be at 0 or else flex would not work. I forget
    the other rules -- was it a single curve point in the middle, no higher than 4
    units above 0? \r\n\r\nIs flex still important? How do cupped serifs react to
    anti-aliasing? What if a cupped serif is made by having the central point on the
    baseline and the corners at -2? What happens then? "
  created: '2008-08-01 12:55:49'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Bill wrote: <em>thank you very much for your advice. But how do I resolve
    that it appears to conflict with David\u2019s?</em>\r\n\r\nI don't see a conflict
    there, because we were talking about different things: David about how glyphs
    get scaled down when they don't fit into the (1000 x 1000 unit) em square, while
    I was talking about that you should use OpenType-CFF and raise the Units Per Em
    value of your font if you need higher precision that a grid of 1000 units, e.g.
    to 5000 so that 3.4/1000 units turn into 17/5000 units."
  created: '2008-08-01 18:31:52'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Sorry, Jens, I think I misunderstood what David said. He wrote,\r\n\r\n>So,
    if you expect PS use, design on a 1000 em, (not 10,000 or a million), and thus
    be sure that what points you placed will Stay! until the user needs to scale them.
    And then, you pray for resolution on their output.<\r\n\r\nI took this to mean
    I should confine myself to 1K/em. But rereading, I noticed the next sentence,
    \ \r\n\r\n>Or, if you think their output is a lot less than 1,000 per em, hint.<\r\n\r\nSo
    now I think what he was saying was design for greater than 1K/em if you feel you
    have to (though he elsewhere says that he thinks IK's 15,000 is a waste), but
    ....\r\n\r\nActually, I'm totally confused! -- and there are all those other questions.
    \r\n\r\nDavid, I later stated, \r\n\r\n\u201CThe advantage of abandoning collinearity
    is that you have the ability to get into intermediate spaces off the T1 1000 grid
    that would otherwise not be accessible.\u201D\r\n\r\nYou then correctly asked,
    \"What intermediate spaces off the T1 1000?\"\r\n\r\nInstead of \"off\" I should
    have written \"within\" and what I meant by the intermediate space was, for example,
    the extreme left of the dot of i occurring at 75.5 units, which is only possible
    when you abandon collinear points at the extrema. \r\n\r\nMany thanks for expert
    help! Sorry to be so dense! "
  created: '2008-08-01 19:55:52'
date: '2008-06-29 13:38:41'
title: 'Reality check before the fog: Web fonts'

---
