---
author:
  name: londontype
  picture: 111325
body: "No more Antique Olive for Wally World? The [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB121462040134113143.html?mod=googlenews_wsj|WSJ]]
  reports Wal-Mart may be changing its tired logo (and dropping the hyphen) but I
  don't think the new one is anything to get excited about.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/wm_4142.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "From the horse's mouth:\r\n\r\nhttp://walmartstores.com/FactsNews/NewsRoom/8411.aspx\r\n\r\nAnd
    the timeline of logos:\r\nhttp://walmartstores.com/AboutUs/8412.aspx"
  created: '2008-06-30 18:08:10'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "The letters are better, but the design feels pharmaceutical and doesn\u2019t
    fit Walmart\u2019s low-cost and low-class MO. And what\u2019s going on with the
    asterisk? It looks like someone just tacked it on with no thought behind it. Overall
    it just reeks of dishonesty; the company that only sells censored albums and puts
    apocalyptic bible-study materials near the registers is never going to make itself
    look mainstream with a logo change."
  created: '2008-06-30 18:32:21'
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: "Wow, that asterisk needs to be centered or aligned to something.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    the whole thing (in the blue and yellow) looks like they're a cellphone company."
  created: '2008-06-30 18:32:21'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: Someone in the WSJ story called the asterisk a sunburst...
  created: '2008-06-30 19:25:52'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Why?
  created: '2008-06-30 19:29:02'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: "Because it's yellow?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/wm2_4781.jpg]"
  created: '2008-06-30 20:03:40'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: Solar Powered Shopping Carts?
  created: '2008-06-30 20:10:21'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Wallpaper* \u2014 oh, sorry\u2026 Wallmart*\u2026\r\nHow original. But didn\u2019t
    David Bowie say \u201CIt\u2019s hard enough to be clever, you don\u2019t have
    to be original\u201D?\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2008-06-30 20:46:38'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "sorry, londontype...didn't mean for that to refer to your comment.\r\n\r\nI
    was asking 'why' in the big-picture/rhetorical/\"if it ain't broke...\" sense.\r\n\r\nI
    can't comprehend any business argument for Wal-Mart rebranding itself with that
    small of a shift...or, for that matter, ANY rebranding. They are what they are
    and they're the biggest retailer on the planet. Why bother with a rebrand?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-30 21:11:20'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Why bother with a rebrand?</cite>\r\n\r\nBecause among non-Walmart
    customers, Walmart is one of the most detested brands around. Walmart\u2019s domestic
    growth has been stagnating for years because Walmart stores have become persona
    non grata in many communities, and across America municipalities have been rewriting
    zoning laws to keep big box retailers like Walmart and Home Depot from setting
    up shop. Here in DC Walmart announced it was going to open a store in the morning,
    and within hours the city government was plotting ways to keep Walmart out. By
    the end of the day Walmart canceled plans for a store in DC. \r\n\r\nWalmart\u2019s
    reliance on cheap Chinese goods to keep profits high is starting to hurt the company.
    Tainted pet foods and toys slathered in lead paint have made it much harder to
    defend that business model. Politicians and pundits blaming China for high gas
    prices isn\u2019t helping. Neither is manipulating the hours worked by employees
    classified \u201Dfull-time\u201D to avoid providing them with health insurance.
    Or discriminating against female employees. On the other side of the aisle Walmart
    is pissing off America\u2019s religious extremists by adding gays to its anti-discrimination
    policy and making the company greener.\r\n\r\nWalmart has a huge image problem
    that the people running it don\u2019t know how to fix. It\u2019s probably not
    one that even can be fixed. But they appear to believe that getting their brand
    out of backwoods of Arkansas is a start."
  created: '2008-06-30 22:28:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Walmart's new logo should be a vice putting the squeeze on small business
    owners and screwing their employees. Sorry, they are just a sore subject with
    me. :-(\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-06-30 22:34:33'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Considering the new \"green\" look this logo has, they'll try to push their
    environmental responsibility and conservation with \"greenovating\" their stores.
    \r\n\r\nWalmart is trying to become the new Target..."
  created: '2008-06-30 22:50:59'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026try to push their environmental responsibility and conservation
    with \u201Cgreenovating\u201D their stores.</cite>\r\n\r\nWalmart has been pushing
    hard to go green since 2005-probably because they finally noticed how many millions
    of dollars McDonalds and Starbucks have saved by slashing waste. Have you noticed
    that most laundry detergent had its concentration doubled in the last few years?
    That was Walmart getting trucks off the road. The problem is that Walmart spent
    years courting the ignorant redneck crowd as a customer base, and taking steps
    to making the company green pisses off the anti-science crowd who want us to all
    know about how controversial global warming and evolution are. I can\u2019t say
    I have much sympathy, that\u2019s what Walmart gets for doing business in America\u2019s
    cultural gutter."
  created: '2008-06-30 23:16:29'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: That's quite the half-assed <a href="http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/singles/creative_alliance/myriad_pro_bold/?sample_text=Walmart&sample_size=96">Myriad</a>
    modification. (Sorry, I can't stop IDing.)
  created: '2008-07-01 03:40:56'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Nice catch!
  created: '2008-07-01 04:04:54'
- author:
    name: Neil Ryan
    picture: 115323
  body: "It seems to fit in perfectly with the \"monopolized\" society concept. The
    new logo reminds me of something I would see in a movie like I Robot or wall e,
    where futuristic companies dominate. Did they really need the mark? What is it
    saying about the brand? I don't see it, but maybe consumers today don't care about
    that. Perhaps they just want something that looks \"new\" and \"clean\". \r\n\r\nWith
    that said, I think a nice type treatment could have been very successful here.
    Good topic!"
  created: '2008-07-01 06:37:07'
- author:
    name: i cant delete my username
  body: "I think it's way too late in the game for \"Walmart\" to be introducing an
    abstract logo. It will never be a Nike \"Swoosh.\" I severely doubt anyone will
    ever see that six-segment \"starburst\" and think of that identity. It looks kind
    of slapped-on.\r\n\r\nMust have paid their graphic designers the same they pay
    the rest of their employees."
  created: '2008-07-01 07:13:52'
- author:
    name: Curiousity
    picture: 113826
  body: "It does smack of pharmaceuticals.\r\n\r\nOn the subject of big brand branding.
    Has anyone seen a new/revamped Target store where they've schooched the target
    up a bit, to hang over the edge of the wall/sign it's on? This drives me crazy!
    I always want to pull it back down.\r\n\r\nAny thoughts?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DSC09512_5100.JPG]"
  created: '2008-07-01 07:30:53'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>Must have paid their graphic designers the same they pay the rest of
    their employees.</cite>\r\n\r\nOh this was probably in-house... so, yeah. "
  created: '2008-07-01 13:30:52'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Because among non-Walmart customers, Walmart is one of the most detested
    brands around.\"\r\n\r\nAnd a new logo certainly isn't going to change that.\r\n\r\n\"Walmart
    is trying to become the new Target...\"\r\n\r\nWhich is probably a bad move given
    Target hasn't been doing great lately either...and also have been getting a bad
    image in a lot of its own business moves."
  created: '2008-07-01 15:23:53'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: I've always thought Target deserved better than Helvetica. Bliss anyone?
  created: '2008-07-01 15:34:41'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Walmart\u2019s new logo should be a vice putting the squeeze on small
    business owners and screwing their employees. Sorry, they are just a sore subject
    with me.</em>\r\n\r\nWell said, Chris.\r\n\r\nIf anybody is interested, PBS's
    Frontline did a great show about Wal-Mart a couple of years ago:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/walmart/\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-01 16:52:56'
- author:
    name: cjeder
    picture: 113656
  body: " I doubt that walmart will have much success reaching out to the utne reading,
    Prius driving segment of the population, but being a primium brand has never been
    their strategy. The logo is clearly a shout out to the rise of environmental consciousness
    in popular culture (see the rebrands of ge, philip morris/altria, and BP), and
    for wal-marts base of price oriented shoppers, a bit of gloss will go a long way
    in making them fell better about themselves for supporting a retailer whose treatment
    of their workers and the environment leaves little to celebrate.\r\n\r\nMy guess
    is that the new logo has less to do with a full greenwashing of the brand, but
    a signal of a more general physical downsizing.  Up until now walmart has sold
    itself as the agricultural wholesaler for the suburban lifestyle, placing giant
    stores in recently developed rural areas.  As energy prices rise and the middle
    class moves back to more densly populated areas, walmart needs to find a way to
    fit in to a more urban landscape.  This logo signals that shift.\r\n\r\nI assume
    their plan is to put a greater focus on going after rite-aid and walgreens traditional
    turf of purchasing cheap properties in depressed and aging mid-century suburbs
    and putting in a big cube of retail/pharmacy.  So when people say the logo looks
    pharmaceutical, they are probably dead on.  In short, if you imagine the piece
    on the side of a Walmart, it definitely smacks of corporate doublespeak, but if
    you place the same on the side of a Walgreens, it looks a better fit. "
  created: '2008-07-01 23:19:50'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>a full greenwashing of the brand</em>\r\n\r\nBrilliant term. :-)"
  created: '2008-07-01 23:27:48'
- author:
    name: imageWIS
    picture: 113308
  body: "With all the money that Wal-Mart has they couldn't hire a great, or at least
    decent graphic design firm? The new logo is horrible. \r\n\r\nJon. "
  created: '2008-07-02 00:40:50'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"That\u2019s quite the half-assed Myriad modification.\"\r\n\r\nThis is
    exactly what I thought. Could it have been any easier/lazier? The one logo retread
    I can think of that's more lame than this is the new [[http://www.oskarlin.com/images/chevron_01.png|Chevron
    logo,]] also using the safe and easily-available Myriad. They actually made signage
    with it and everything. Gak. I suppose we should be glad that the W is capitalized
    rather than made lowercase to give us all a cuddly, safe feeling. "
  created: '2008-07-02 00:58:27'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "@Jon: That\u2019s not how Wal-Mart keeps prices down. \r\n\r\n@Carl: Wow\u2026that\u2019s
    pretty bad. It makes me wonder if Myriad will become the new Optima; the font
    that every designer has that won\u2019t offend anybody."
  created: '2008-07-02 01:17:22'
- author:
    name: Brian_
    picture: 110618
  body: The sunshine asterisk looks like a donut if you connect the rings. If they
    sell donuts, I'm there.
  created: '2008-07-02 02:07:54'
- author:
    name: jayyy
    picture: 109661
  body: Anyone who doesn't think that the proliferation of Walmart is evil, or needs
    some context should watch [[http://www.walmartmovie.com/|this movie]]
  created: '2008-07-02 02:10:06'
- author:
    name: jayyy
    picture: 109661
  body: I really do prefer the new logo though :) I would just rather sell my right
    arm than shop there.
  created: '2008-07-02 02:11:23'
- author:
    name: marz
  body: "The little sunshine does make me think of an anti-depressant drug.  It also
    looks pretty \"kindergarten\" or like packaging for diapers.\r\n\r\n* \r\n\r\nIronically,
    I had been thinking about Wal-Mart just recently...about the name and how if it
    were at all possible, they should change/tweak it. I think there are just too
    many obstacles for the \"Wal-Mart\" brand>> i.e. negative stigmas, stereotypes
    and associations that have been made about the store within the pop culture (that's
    all branding too!). The only positive \"brand attribute\" they seem to have going
    for them is \"cheap prices\".\r\n\r\nSince re-naming is probably out of the realm
    of possibility, I think changing the look is the next best hope for the company.
    However, the juvenile look of the proposed design doesn't seem to appropriately
    encompass the massive proportion of the brand. "
  created: '2008-07-02 06:46:33'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: Oh cool. Now I know where to go if I ever need to buy a golden anus.
  created: '2008-07-02 08:03:06'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "The old logo did seem a bit cold:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/200px-Star_wars_galactic_empire_emblem_4892.svg.png]"
  created: '2008-07-02 13:25:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If a bully kicks you in the groin with ugly, worn boots and then changes
    his boots to a shiny new pair, do you still remember the pain in your groin thw
    next time you see him?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-02 13:58:51'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"With all the money that Wal-Mart has they couldn\u2019t hire a great, or
    at least decent graphic design firm?\"\r\n\r\nWal-Mart didn't become Wal-Mart
    by paying well. ;o)\r\n\r\n\"If they sell donuts, I\u2019m there.\"\r\n\r\nThey
    do. And I challenge you to eat even half of one. It's bad enough that Wal-Mart
    can destroy the grocery stores in small towns when they move in, but to add insult
    to injury, most of their food is rather inedible by anyone with even average taste
    buds.\r\n\r\n\"golden anus\"\r\n\r\nHa! That has a certain charm to it, oddly
    enough..."
  created: '2008-07-02 15:50:14'
- author:
    name: pdxuser
  body: "Clearly the sunburst, lowercase and rounding are going for happy and friendly,
    as opposed to imposing and fascist. It does look like a pharmaceutical brand,
    but it also reminds me of Washington Mutual.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/wamu_4715.gif]"
  created: '2008-07-03 03:12:51'
- author:
    name: Rob Merola
    picture: 115341
  body: "It seems that they changed everything that they possibly could with this
    redesign:\r\n\r\nThe name in effect by unhyphenating it.\r\nThe typeface.\r\nAbandoning
    the all caps.\r\nThe color\r\n\r\nThe overall effect is a softer friendlier identity.\r\n\r\nI
    question the the size of the sun. It will work nicely animated and patterned like
    \ Target's graphic does.\r\n\r\nI'd make the sun smaller on the primary mark though."
  created: '2008-07-03 03:24:46'
- author:
    name: jt_the_ninja
    picture: 115340
  body: "I've noticed a lot of companies changing their logos lately...I'm not going
    to say the new Walmart logo is surprising, I guess. \r\n\r\nOne that I found slightly
    disturbing (and still do), though, is Payless Shoe Source:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.underconsideration.com/brandnew/archives/payless_logo.gif\r\n\r\nPeace,\r\nJT\r\n\r\nP.S.
    Oh, and hi all."
  created: '2008-07-03 15:41:48'
- author:
    name: Wesley.Bancroft
    picture: 112463
  body: "This is pretty good. I mean its Walmart for Christ's sake... how else would
    you brand a store that at least a billion people shop at all over the world? Using
    a simple Sans that looks like Myriad (which is one of the most ubiquitous faces
    today, all the more fitting for a ubiquitous corporation) and rounding it slightly
    is current and looks friendly. I think this was a great branding...\r\n\r\nbut
    still Walmart is a awful company and should be highly scrutinized. "
  created: '2008-07-03 17:33:34'
- author:
    name: clashmore
    picture: 114206
  body: "The new logo feels somehow less... evil. Probably what they were going for.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I dig the dropping of the hyphen."
  created: '2008-07-03 23:17:37'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Using a simple Sans that looks like Myriad (which is one of the most ubiquitous
    faces today, all the more fitting for a ubiquitous corporation) and rounding it
    slightly is current and looks friendly\r\n\r\nBut surely Apple will be pissed,
    first Adobe steals their font and now Walmart. ;-)"
  created: '2008-07-04 04:53:04'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: What does everyone think about the possibility that Walmart is trying to appeal
    to the European market? Europeans generally feel more comfortable with sans serif
    type. They also have shown they are not big fans of Walmart thus far. (Failed
    in Germany) I mean, getting rid of the caps, changing the font and forgoing the
    star...seems to all lean towards making it seems less Western and cowboy-ish.
    yea?
  created: '2008-07-04 08:23:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\"Europeans generally feel more comfortable with sans serif type.\"\r\n\r\nLove
    it! That has to go on a t-shirt!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-04 14:47:40'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Could see this coming... \"<A HREF=\"http://www.thestreet.com/s/small-biz-change-your-logo-like-wal-mart/newsanalysis/small-business-blog/10424677.html\">Small
    Biz: Change Your Logo Like Wal-Mart?</A>\" \r\n\r\nMaybe designers will get some
    work out of this.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2008-07-04 15:39:55'
- author:
    name: badslicer
    picture: 114666
  body: ">where they\u2019ve schooched the target up a bit, to hang over the edge
    of the wall/sign it\u2019s on? This drives me crazy! I always want to pull it
    back down.\r\n\r\nMaybe it was made to be over the wall, bringing it UP. I guess
    maybe a blatant fiasko."
  created: '2008-07-04 15:46:12'
- author:
    name: mad grab
  body: "Logo is blah...but ive seen all the movies and read the books but I still
    shop there! \r\n\r\nWhen its late and you need \"_______\" they got it.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-04 21:42:55'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: 'Blue and yellow is classy and chic, like a Swedish flag... I mean IKEA logo. '
  created: '2008-07-04 22:37:10'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "I really am trying to like it. Ha. I mean, seeing how far they have come
    since the first logo...and being the biggest retailer...they must know what they're
    doing right?? Eh, maybe it will take some packaging and actually seeing it in
    use to get use to it. No one ever really likes change when the original was comfortable.\r\n\r\nBut
    still this logo is screaming out something that doesn't say \"Walmart\"! ha. I
    see it and I think generic. standard? I mean especially with the astric/sun/star
    symbol. But more like...designed generic. Oh who knows, everyone clap your hands
    and welcome in the new Walmart logo, cause we all know it's here to stay. =/"
  created: '2008-07-04 22:52:36'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'They''ve switched up the television commercials here in San Jose. We saw
    one commercial yesterday with the old logo and the new one today. At first it
    looked like an IKEA ad. It doesn''t help that at the end their logo is blue and
    yellow causing a little subliminal crossover. '
  created: '2008-07-22 20:54:59'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "I just saw the new logo in a banner ad...\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Walmart_BackToSchool_160x600_def_3538.jpg]"
  created: '2008-07-26 02:08:46'
- author:
    name: tearsforsappho
    picture: 115158
  body: "r: Bryan:  Yes, they do sell donuts.  When I worked there (as there wasnt
    much else when I lived in Fl), I woke up at 3am to make them for just over $7
    an hour.  It was the most detestable, demeaning place I have ever worked.  Which
    is saying a lot, as I worked at McDonalds for a long while as well before I finished
    school.  I was routinely shorted hours, etc.  As if killing myself for $7 an hour
    wasnt bad enough.\r\n\r\nI hate walmart."
  created: '2008-07-28 23:42:13'
date: '2008-06-30 17:48:05'
node_type: forum
title: New Walmart logo?

---
