---
author:
  name: KC
  picture: 115352
body: "This is a new logo design I developed (without formal design experience).\r\nI
  hope this is the right forum to post this.\r\n\r\nThis logo is for a new website
  for professional freelance English teachers who want to work in companies teaching
  business English (in Europe). I want the logo to have a professional feeling but
  to also have a Teachers touch. \"Teachers touch\" means some hand written style
  font. I want the logo to be both the symbol and the website name (one variation
  outside of this is also presented). I am having a lot of difficulty with choosing
  a font because the name of the site is so long, ProfessionalEnglishTeachers.com
  . The logo colors represent the colors from the flags of several English speaking
  countries (sorry Ireland). The logo symbol has 3 elements: the letters \"PEt\",
  a teacher in front of a desk/podium with arms stretched upward, and a hint of the
  euro symbol. I would like to get feedback on fonts to use and perhaps positioning,
  borders, 3D effects, ect. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PET_uploadsample_6691.jpg]\r\n\r\nAny
  critic on the symbol would be appreciated, love it, hate it, rate it.\r\n\r\nPlease
  rate it 1 to 10 with: \r\n10 being memorable, clever, intersting, an absolute keeper,
  \r\n5 being just ok, nothing special, keep trying.\r\n1 being hire a designer because
  you suck ;) "
comments:
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "Sorry to say, but it's quite obvious you don't have any design experience.\r\n\r\nThese
    are all very busy, but I think there's some hope in the mark for logo 'B'. Right
    now because of the even stroke width and rounded ends, it looks almost Korean
    to me. I'd make it look more organic like real brush strokes. You can go with
    the blue and red for a colour version, but I'd lose the outlines (and especially
    the shadow) of 'C' and 'D'.\r\n\r\nI'd choose typefaces that contrast a bit more,
    maybe a rigid sans and a brush script, or else just use a single typeface. Look
    at how the letters connect in \"English\" - you'll have to modify the 'En', 'ng',
    and 'li' connections so they look natural.\r\n\r\nPay attention to how the type
    and the mark work with each other. Right now, there's no alignment whatsoever.\r\n\r\nThe
    \"your way...\" slogan doesn't really make sense to me.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2008-07-04 17:41:59'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>\u201CTeachers touch\u201D means some hand written style font.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    begging for Comic Sans! ;)"
  created: '2008-07-04 18:41:08'
- author:
    name: David Ford
    picture: 115355
  body: "Looks more preacher than teacher to me.\r\n\r\nThe whole 'PET' concept is
    too complex and when you combine it with 4 lines of text you are getting ridiculous.\r\n\r\nMy
    rating: 1"
  created: '2008-07-04 19:22:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<strong>1</strong>\r\n\r\nUninstall Logo Creator and hire a designer."
  created: '2008-07-04 19:44:55'
- author:
    name: KC
    picture: 115352
  body: "Thanks so much for the feedback. I think I have a designer rating that is
    not on my scale but I think I can improve that. \r\n\r\nI have made a few changes
    based on your feedback just to see the differences. I do not know what would be
    rigid sans. I agree that they are busy. You should have seen the first sketches,
    those were more than busy.\r\n\r\nI look at the brush strokes and think they make
    it even more busy.\r\n\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/PET_uploadsample2_6253.jpg]\r\n\r\nMy
    wife is a teacher and uses comic sans all the time in her work sheets. I think
    it is too youthful.\r\n\r\n\r\nEverybody has to start somewhere."
  created: '2008-07-04 21:25:12'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "Comic Sans...bad idea. I am pretty sure he was joking. God I hope so. ha.
    Anywho...yes you picked the right forum, this is a place filled with people that
    love to design especially when it has type in it :D\r\n\r\nSo my suggestions to
    your logo. I actually think the symbol at the top (B) has some promise. I get
    it, it's a kid raising his hand and there's what looks like a desk or a japanese
    style character. Works ok enough. Develop that first. Keep the type simple. It
    is quite long like you said and if your goal is to have people come to your site,
    then write is as a ulr. \"professionalenglishteachers.com\" or \"ProfessionalEnglishTeachers.com\"
    Something along those lines. The that way you break your logo into 2 elements,
    a symbol and the type. it will make it much easier to deal with and less jumbled.
    \r\n\r\nThe typeface you choose always depends on your audience. But pick one
    that you think makes sense right now (keeping it simple and easy to read) and
    try what I said above. Then come back here and post it. If you want a good logo...you're
    going to have to redesign and submit a lot to get some advice considering you're
    not a designer. and obvious...sorry. But it's not a big deal as long as you're
    willing to put in some time! You'll learn a lot, I promise :)\r\n\r\nThings to
    think about:\r\n\r\nContrast. If all of the elements of your logo are the same
    size...it's boring. make one or the other much bigger or much darker.\r\nColor.
    Design in black and white first. Think about color afterwards. You need a strong
    logo before you start playing with color. (but do keep possible color schemes
    in mind)\r\n\r\nCheers"
  created: '2008-07-04 22:22:49'
- author:
    name: KC
    picture: 115352
  body: "cslem1, \r\nThanks for the constructive critique. The intent is for the symbol
    to be a teacher in front of a podium or desk. However, like David mentioned it
    could be more preacher than teacher. With a name and product like ProfessinalEnglishTeachers.com
    I can not use PET alone without confusing people and it is for a non English speaking
    community too. I want them to remember the name. The symbol is a creative creation
    from many sketches and tweaks of the letters PET.  I use Adobe Illistrator. But
    if it would be better to start with just text than so be it. I don't know of many
    law firms with a shorter name than mine. \r\n\r\nThe \u201Cyour way\u2026\u201D
    tag line is suppose to be saying the customer can learn English and pave the way
    to success in an English dominated international business market, it also can
    mean that the customer can tailor the English lessons to their needs. I think
    it is also has a better rhythm to have a short phrase after the long name when
    I read it out loud.\r\n\r\nI want to learn and am willing to put in the time to
    create something that this community would consider quality. I have read many
    of the posts here and am happy to have found such a \xB4great site.\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-04 22:57:07'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>Comic Sans...bad idea. I am pretty sure he was joking.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    was only half joking ... I know that Comic Sans is many a teacher's favourite
    typeface, so it might actually be appealing to them. I understood that the target
    audience of the website is teachers, or is it? Anyway, I don't think Comic Sans
    will work for this. Perhaps something more classy, like the classical \u2013 maybe
    even clich\xE9 \u2013 British typefaces ... Gill Sans perhaps?"
  created: '2008-07-04 23:50:10'
- author:
    name: KC
    picture: 115352
  body: "Here are some text only attempts. I like the more traditional text next to
    the script. I think all of them are nice. I do not know about the smaller font
    size in #5 for com. I think it is a bit of a distraction from the harmony. Number
    4 and 5 are the same except for the size of English. I am in favor of the bigger
    one. Please rank these offerings. I know it is still an untrained hand but perhaps
    I am on to something. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PET fontTy_3490.jpg]\r\n\r\n#1
    is for Jens the Gill Sans and I like it! It is even better white on black."
  created: '2008-07-05 12:49:28'
- author:
    name: KC
    picture: 115352
  body: "Here are 4 more. The last one should tell a story about how English bridges
    the gap, gets you there. The bridge is just a stick thing but does the idea have
    merit? In all of these I have tried to arrange the letters to be better spaced
    than just \"out of the box\" is it noticeably better or worse? I notice some fonts
    are better than others on the spacing. Would I call this kerning when I rearrange
    the letters one at a time?\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PET
    fontTy8-11_5262.jpg]"
  created: '2008-07-05 18:24:16'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "trying a bit too hard. You don't want to change the size of the font too
    much. Makes the reader work too hard, which also makes it that much harder to
    read. I don't think you need to emphasize English too much. Especially in the
    middle of a \"sentence\". It again makes the reader work too hard to read it,
    feels very unprofessional.\r\n\r\nTry seeing how you can fit together the words,
    make it one unit rather than just throwing it together."
  created: '2008-07-05 18:54:48'
- author:
    name: nvhladek
    picture: 112094
  body: "I want to echo cslem1's advice.  I don't see why \"English\" has to be emphasized
    apart from \"Professional\" and \"Teachers.\"  I would like to see one line of
    text with the name:\r\n\r\n\"Professional English Teachers\"\r\n\r\non one line.
    \ #10 has promise.  Also, I think you should stay away from sans-serif typefaces.
    I think serif typefaces will communicate more professionalism and authority than
    sans.\r\n\r\n--\r\nNick Hladek"
  created: '2008-07-05 19:08:37'
- author:
    name: KC
    picture: 115352
  body: "Nick, Here are a few serif typefaces without focus on English outside of
    a little spacing. I think that 14 is most readable because the letters are wider
    but it also need more realestate. The last one I think is the least readable.
    \r\n\r\ncslem,\r\n\"Try seeing how you can fit together the words, make it one
    unit rather than just throwing it together.\"\r\n\r\nI need some help understanding
    this. What is it you mean by fit together?\r\n\r\nThanks everyone for taking the
    time to comment on my efforts.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PET
    fontTy12-16_4019.jpg]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-05 21:48:35'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "What I mean by trying to make the words fit together is: study the shapes
    of the letters, it's all about flow. I can't show you without just doing it, but
    just trying googling (images) \"logos\". The best way to learn is to look at the
    pro's and see what you can pick up from them (don't copy, obviously).\r\n\r\nAlso,
    an important question- Is this logo only going on the web?? Because if so, also
    google (images) \"Web 2.0 logos\". I think you might get a lot of ideas from there.
    Of course you want to keep in mind professional, because going the web 2.0 way
    can be easy to make your logo look too cartoony."
  created: '2008-07-06 05:37:32'
- author:
    name: vanina
    picture: 113631
  body: 'You can get a great designer to give you a great logo for about $100 on this.
    It will be well, well worth your money. '
  created: '2008-07-06 18:06:55'
- author:
    name: KC
    picture: 115352
  body: Vanina, Thanks for the good advice. I know I can pay someone and in the end
    I still will, but then I learn nothing except how much faster it is to buy experience.
    I have already learned a lot about type. It is fun for me. As I learn here I get
    to appreciate what you all do. It is easy to copy, but to invent is the major
    league. I want to swing my bat here and see if I can hit anything. I can paint
    a beautiful protrait with oil and I thought I could try to develp something with
    pixels. It is proving more difficult.
  created: '2008-07-06 18:50:40'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "I think either your F or G logo marks are a start. Try putting that mark
    centered over your #12 type treatment and see what it looks like. I think that
    would earn you a 2/10, granted there is still a long way to go.\r\n\r\nI would
    consider exploring a lot more ideas on your logo mark, your site is not easily
    referred to as PET, most users will probably pronounce the full name. Also why
    not pick a shorter domain name? Or at least a domain like ProET.com or something.\r\n\r\nSearch
    youtube for logo design showcase or portfolio. Also go on logo websites or professional
    designers' websites who specialize in logo work.\r\n\r\nI really like:\r\nLouise
    Fili: http://www.louisefili.com/logos/logos.html\r\nBorges: http://www.borgeslettering.com\r\nNon-Format:
    http://www.non-format.com/\r\nSi Scott: http://www.siscott.co.uk/ & http://www.youarebeautiful.co.uk/bitch_web/\r\n33rpm:
    http://www.33rpmdesign.com\r\nand Hydro 74: http://www.hydro74.com/"
  created: '2008-07-07 11:29:26'
- author:
    name: marz
  body: "Just a thought...\r\n\r\nwhen I was looking at your desired logo elements-->
    I noticed that the person could be represented by a \"P\" and the podium by a
    \"T\". Now for the \"e\"? Hmmmm. Perhaps a \"hand-drawn\" calligraphic \"e\" made
    to look like the teachers hand.\r\n\r\nThis is a quick sketch I did with a very
    bad Sharpie...but just to throw the rough concept out there!\r\n\r\n*\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PeT_3712.jpg]"
  created: '2008-07-07 16:16:59'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Very first set, option b, there's something there with that simple line mark.
    That could work.\r\n\r\nBut everything else is falling into the 'filters and effects'
    trap.\r\n\r\nFor now, forget colors, forget 3D, forget brush effects, forget skewing,
    rotating, transforming.\r\n\r\nDon't think 'handwriting' as that really doesn't
    say a whole lot about teaching, unless you were aiming for a cursive angle, but
    even that doesn't seem to say 'english teacher'.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-07 17:43:17'
- author:
    name: Dave M
  body: Keep it simple. I would go back to the drawing board. good luck.
  created: '2008-07-07 18:24:32'
- author:
    name: vintagesignman
    picture: 115367
  body: "Trying to balance a tall logo with alot of text can be difficult. I didn't
    see PET until you pointed it out. You my want to look at some sort of icon that
    sells for you.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PET_5845.gif]"
  created: '2008-07-07 20:11:44'
- author:
    name: adnix
    picture: 109591
  body: "Please, just hire a professional designer.\r\n\r\nDavid"
  created: '2008-07-07 23:37:33'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "I agree with hiring a designer.I realize you want to learn yourself but your
    sort of jumping in on the last step of the learning process without actually learning
    everything first.\r\n\r\nPick up the logo Font & lettering bible. A lot of good
    advice and history and application."
  created: '2008-07-07 23:43:09'
- author:
    name: jayyy
    picture: 109661
  body: "KC,\r\n\r\nThis may be 'fun' for you but if you are serious about the results,
    hire a designer. Teaching English may be fun for me but I would be bad at it.
    I have seen more promise in the three iterations by Vintage than anything you
    have posted. You cannot teach a lifetimes worth of design skills in a forum like
    this.\r\n\r\nSorry to be blunt but I imagine most here would agree. I hate elitism
    in design and believe that anyone can design and be a designer. The results however,
    may not be great but hopefully enjoyable."
  created: '2008-07-08 01:41:23'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "\"You cannot teach a lifetimes worth of design skills in a forum like this.\"\r\n\r\nJayyy
    is completely right. I was hoping that you would try to do some of your own research
    of logos that already exist and then give it an honest try. Logo design, however,
    is not simple, well good logo design...especially if you don't even know the basic
    principles of design. So I say if you are doing this for yourself and it's more
    about YOU doing the logo then research a lot and start over. If you are doing
    this for a client...hire a designer or at least a student.\r\n\r\nIf you decide
    to keep putting up logo drafts, I will continue to critique, otherwise I'd still
    like to see the finish product regardless of what you decide to do, so at least
    post a link when it's done!\r\n\r\nGood luck!\r\nCourtney"
  created: '2008-07-08 02:40:12'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "I like the direction of Dave Curry a.k.a. vintagesingman. It has somehow
    contemporary looks of Olympic logos. Which may not be the best but it's still
    very good for organisations (probably non profit).\r\n\r\nYes it's very clear
    that KC doesn't have any real life experience with logos. I'm always amazed how
    complicated people like this try to make their logos. We all live in a world surrounded
    by logos. We are annoyed by busy snail mail marketing spam in our mail boxes.
    They all reflect this kind of design. Any yet they still tend to overdo this.\r\n\r\nFact:
    logo symbol PET (I didn't see it either but I find it clever now) is very promising.
    VERY. Dave showed us how.\r\n\r\nYou don't want to emphasize English too much.
    Almost definitely not with using a different font unless they complement each
    other.\r\n\r\nIf you're not going to hire a designer I would at least suggest
    you start reading Robert Bringhurst's Elements of typographic style. Quick!\r\n\r\n----\r\n<em>Robert
    Koritnik</em>"
  created: '2008-07-08 07:19:06'
- author:
    name: KC
    picture: 115352
  body: "Thanks so much for all the comments and input. I am doing this for myself,
    no client. No designer poser here. The next few are marks based on PET. I like
    O the best. Are these of any design value?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PET_minimizeJ-O_5779.jpg]"
  created: '2008-07-08 08:33:46'
- author:
    name: KC
    picture: 115352
  body: "\"Search youtube for logo design showcase or portfolio. Also go on logo websites
    or professional designers\u2019 websites who specialize in logo work.\"\r\n\r\nj_polo9,\r\nI
    have looked a so many logos. They are almost always simple. I look at them in
    Black and White and see this. Most are just text. I have looked at lots of Web
    2.0 stuff since cslem1 mentioned it. I have made a few but they seem unsuitable
    on this thread. I think I should avoid color.\r\n\r\nI have not just 4 or 5 or
    6 letters but more of a paragraph for a name, 30 letters. But as an internet brand,
    the name is what people need to remember and a name like ProET.com is for me not
    as easy to remember and is already owned. In English PEteachers means something
    other than English, ProET ET means the movie, PET means pet. Outside of creating
    a non related name for my product I have few options to make it short, relevant,
    and memorable.\r\n\r\nThe use of P E T as a person in front of a podium I thought
    was clever. Not that \"PET\" has much value for me alone. The initials are secondary
    to mark but the use of the letters and their relevance to the name makes it for
    me an interesting, memorable and relevant mark. My last post of the negative space
    PET is less about the person and podium and more about drawing the reader(customers)
    in to discover what it is, and then remember it. I will never hire famous people
    to wear my mark and sell my product, it needs to draw the person in on it\u2019s
    own. I know I will hire a designer to do the final work but I want to develop
    a few of my own ideas before I hand it all over. This project is not about me
    and a huge ego but it would be cool if I had a part in the creative process outside
    of money.\r\n\r\njayyy,\r\nBlunt is ok, I like that. Rude is bad and you are not
    that at all. I understand my limitations but I am creative by nature and just
    need to try and see what pros think.\r\n\r\n\u201CYou cannot teach a lifetimes
    worth of design skills in a forum like this.\u201D I studied Mechanical Engineering
    so I know what you mean. I think anyone who has completed a university degree
    program knows how little they really know.\r\n\r\ncslem1,\r\nI will post my link
    for sure. The website name is already clear but I will be back to remind you all
    when it is up if you like. After all this is the first place I have presented
    it publicly.\r\n\r\nMarz, litera, vintagesignman,\r\nIs my original person in
    front of a podium catching on as something better than before? Should this figure
    be refined as a mark?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-08 09:30:24'
- author:
    name: KC
    picture: 115352
  body: "Just text and color or with one of the teachers marks. A little web2.0ish\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rwb2_6316.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    think the neg space does not go with the text\r\nThen the PET is also screaming
    to me about a dog or something (distraction for me)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bw2logos_6614.jpg]"
  created: '2008-07-08 09:42:03'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "lol the top one is web 1990ish. The colours are less bad on the bottom...
    but what is the design for? \r\n\r\nYour logotype is huge and the combo doesn't
    work. try one of the ones vintage sign man did. Your latest pet symbol has promise
    but it still needs to be designed... right now it is only a concept. You need
    to mess with different strokes and weights and combinations and variations and...
    etc. until you have something that is eye catching and memorable. right now it
    is a stick figure drawing."
  created: '2008-07-08 10:11:39'
- author:
    name: KC
    picture: 115352
  body: "LOL, I can not tell when something is 80s 90s or what. That is funny though.
    \r\n\r\nThe design is for freelance English teachers that want to land corporate
    clients in German or EU companies. The mark stand for freelancers that teach business
    English. That means it has to be a universal mark for teachers and communicate
    professionalism to corporate clients. I am considering other symbols for the mark
    like a neck tie.\r\n\r\nI will go talk to my stick figures some more :)"
  created: '2008-07-08 10:43:52'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "Of course you can't. That's why you're producing so much different things
    and that's why your attempts are not going anywhere yet...\r\n\r\nBy the brief
    I suggest you take vintagesignman 's approach. It works very well for organisations
    and will work in EU. The middle one without the web address to me is at 90% of
    being finished.\r\n___________\r\n<em>Robert Koritnik</em>"
  created: '2008-07-08 11:14:00'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "Well, I have to say that your symbol has become pretty easily recognizable
    to me. If I see your icon somewhere else on the site...I know exactly what it's
    for, haha...which is great. So I think your symbol is at least something you want
    to keep, just refine...you just need to figure out how to \"attach\" the web address
    and not make it look like you did it in Word.\r\n\r\ncourtney"
  created: '2008-07-08 13:12:58'
- author:
    name: KC
    picture: 115352
  body: "I think this is my best work yet, I like it, maybe it earns me a rating of
    2.5/10. I am sure you  will tell me when it is worse, only cold hard honesty on
    this thread ;)\r\n\r\nI think the new figure is integrated into the words nicely
    (as idea) but the weight of the strokes is too thin at the E and T. Each of OO-S
    are a little different but I tried to bring the letters together. Would you believe
    I did this in Word? \r\n\r\nI tried to handle the PET a little differently in
    each one. I think S is to \"7ish\" on the \"T\". Q-R I think loose the \"T\" too
    much, looks too much like an \"L\" or an \"I\". \r\n\r\nDesign T is the same as
    Q but with the mark.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PET Logo o-T_5722.jpg]"
  created: '2008-07-08 15:41:30'
- author:
    name: KC
    picture: 115352
  body: "Here is T thickened up\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Just U_4154.jpg]"
  created: '2008-07-08 15:53:48'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "Maybe instead of playing on a computer you should take a piece of paper and
    a pencil. You'll worry about the end implementation later. Designers normally
    do it this way.\r\n\r\nI don't like any of these especially not the one with the
    symbol and lettering, because I hate overdone logos when there are two visually
    emphasized parts. Have either one or the other. Not both.\r\n___________\r\n<em>Robert
    Koritnik</em>"
  created: '2008-07-08 16:10:14'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: leachers?
  created: '2008-07-08 16:59:55'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: The irony is that you are rendering the words illegible by employing so many
    tricks.
  created: '2008-07-08 18:14:44'
- author:
    name: KC
    picture: 115352
  body: "Miss Tiffany, \r\nIs that true for examples OO and P?\r\n\r\nlitera\r\nWhat
    do you find bad about OO or P?\r\n\r\nAlu,\r\nI see leachers now too and do not
    like it. "
  created: '2008-07-08 18:58:48'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Yes, it is true for all of those, including U.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-08 19:20:28'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "I don't say this often, but honestly you should hire a real designer. It'll
    be worth it, at least in the time saved coming up with concepts just to have them
    repeatedly shot down.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2008-07-08 20:11:15'
- author:
    name: nvhladek
    picture: 112094
  body: "KC -\r\n\r\nGood for you for coming to a place to learn.  These forums have
    helped me a lot in my development in design skills.  I think I've come some way
    since my first post about a year and a half ago, but I have a long way to go.\r\n\r\nHaving
    said that, I think that the advice has been given many times for you to scrap
    this design, sit down with a pencil and paper, and draw a logo.  I haven't seen
    you do that.  Instead, you have posted numerous iterations of the same design
    you first posted.\r\n\r\nI think it's safe to say that your concept is broken.
    \ It consistently receives feedback that points out fatal flaws in both design
    and execution.  Unless you're willing to take the advice of people who have a
    lot more experience than you, then I can't see that you're engaging in this process
    in a way that could produce a good result.\r\n\r\nSo here is, once again, a bit
    of advice that has gone a long way for me in my design development:\r\n\r\nSit
    down with pencil and paper and draw some black and white logos.  Then come back
    and let us see what you've done.\r\n\r\n--\r\nNick Hladek"
  created: '2008-07-08 20:18:33'
- author:
    name: vintagesignman
    picture: 115367
  body: "You have two problems you need to work on.\r\n\r\n1. An icon. Come up with
    an icon that you like. PET or no PET, but for heavens sake, don't try to turn
    your text into an icon by melting that jumble together.\r\n\r\n2. You have a lot
    of text! My advice is to look at these two problems separate but figure a way
    to bring them together. Readability is very important, if you add the .com after
    teachers it may come off as teachers.com\r\n\r\nPaper and pencil is a great way
    to work things out.\r\nGood luck."
  created: '2008-07-08 20:45:38'
- author:
    name: a.l.i.c.i.a.
    picture: 114106
  body: "KC,\r\n\r\nAfter a quick search on Google images I came across quite a few
    logos with a similar look to your \"stylized person\". Originality is key when
    it comes to an effective logo.\r\n\r\nI had a couple minutes to spare while I
    wait for my ride... I came up with this...\r\n\r\nGood luck with your logo. You
    definitely foudn the right place for constructive criticism! :)\r\n\r\nA.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PET_5902.jpg]"
  created: '2008-07-08 21:49:55'
- author:
    name: a.l.i.c.i.a.
    picture: 114106
  body: "Oh... I forgot to mention something... a small piece of advice...\r\nI'd
    stay away from graduated fills. Some effects/techniques really are best left to
    the pros.... not unlike starting a sentence with 'and'. Heehee! ;)"
  created: '2008-07-08 21:52:09'
- author:
    name: Textwrapper
    picture: 112864
  body: "I like the typewriter font \u2014 by itself."
  created: '2008-07-08 22:04:52'
- author:
    name: heymisterheylady
    picture: 115107
  body: "too, too much. try to think about the singular thing that makes this service
    unique and special. it always helps me to make a 3x3 matrix with symbols on one
    axis and adjectives that i think describe the company on the other. k.i.s.s.,
    you dig? i agree with the drawing first bit. effective negative space is the way
    to go... think about how it would look on the eraser head of a pencil... it has
    to be that small as well as the size of an eighteen wheeler (in theory)... think
    about literature... the touch... the imprint certain instructors leave on your
    life... it always helps me to think of three adjectives and then do a... what
    is the word? BRAINSTORMING TREE? (get yerself three HUGE pieces of paper for each
    word and write down as many words that you can think of that correspond to each
    one, then try to connect all three????) it always helps me to do that. if you
    want to talk message me and i will talk to you all you likee.\r\ns.e. myers"
  created: '2008-07-09 03:42:48'
- author:
    name: KC
    picture: 115352
  body: "I hired a designer (a few days ago) and these are his drafts for me. Nothing
    final. I asked him if it was ok for me to post them and he said it was ok. \r\n\r\nI
    would like to hear your comments. I do not see anything that would fit on an eraser
    but I do not see that as ever possible if I insist on the text being in there.
    I thank you all so much for your time and honesty.\r\n\r\nMy critique is that
    I see extreme complexity in the figures and see that as a weak point for a logo,
    however,  I do like the story they tell. The very simple red logo is more logoish
    but I find it boring and not telling the story the others do. Perhaps if it was
    the bust of one of the other figures with a tie.\r\n\r\nI have been pushing for
    the .com to be in everything, is this unnecessary? \r\n\r\nPlease rate and comment.
    Which is the strongest? Which tells the best story?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PETLOGO1a2a_3484.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PETLOGOa4a5_3873.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PETLOGOa6a7_3842.jpg]"
  created: '2008-07-10 11:47:56'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "Hmm, I think out of all these...I like a2 best. The only reason being that
    it has depth. But I don't think I'm digging the silhouettes. It's not unique,
    I see those silhouettes all over stock photo sites. (Not saying that's where your
    designer got them, but just saying it's not one of a kind) Also, the silhouettes
    seem very unprofessional because of their body language, they are all hunched
    over, they look more like teenagers dressed in suits. I think (If you haven't
    already) suggest that your \"designer\" try some examples with your symbol. You
    had something there...I think it was just a little hard for you to execute into
    a logo.\r\n\r\nAlso, the text used a4, in my opinion, doesn't work. Your text
    is so long and the condensed text is hard to read and especially will be when
    it's smaller.\r\n\r\nAnywho, I do think you are right about the complexity. They
    are too complex. I mean, my personal design preference is simplicity. You need
    something very simplistic that people can remember on its own. (That's what I
    was getting at with the problem of the silhouettes) I mean think about the famous
    logos...McDonalds...FedEx...Deutsche Bank. (The latter being the epitome of simplistic
    logo)\r\n\r\ncourtney"
  created: '2008-07-10 14:18:30'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "The new ones all look like clip art of business people. I don't see teacher
    or english in these at all. \r\n\r\nWhy not pick a nice font and just go with
    the name?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pet2_3723.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pet1_4313.jpg]"
  created: '2008-07-10 17:27:49'
- author:
    name: KC
    picture: 115352
  body: 'Sharon, That seems too easy, too plain even lacking. There is not art, mo
    mark, or do I see it wrong? I dig art. I never thought of type as art until I
    found this forum. '
  created: '2008-07-10 23:31:00'
- author:
    name: kattttor
    picture: 112352
  body: avoid the clip art.
  created: '2008-07-11 12:37:25'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "If you must go with a symbol, maybe step back and brainstorm some more. Think
    less 'business person' and more abstract 'language, europe, education, communication'.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-11 14:48:21'
- author:
    name: KC
    picture: 115352
  body: "aluminum, abstract is abstract. I guess that is why I started out with the
    less abstract letters and formed something abstractish (new word I think I just
    invented) although not \"unique\" with them. Last night I went back to my three
    letters and tried some more. The result is below. I have tried to brainstorm these
    things, education, communication, language but not yet Europe. I see icons like
    apples, books, lips and maybe letters like \xDC\xE4\xF6\xDF. Perhaps just the
    letter \xD6 with a tie or no tie. Tell me what you folks think of the latest PET
    abstractions. I like them but that may only be because I did them. I will brace
    myself for being shot down :)\r\n\r\nI did this of course without a pencil nvhladek,
    it develops and morphs when I use the machine. It feels more like a brainstorm
    than when I sketch. Perhaps it looks too much like a brainstorm too. Do these
    have more promise as compared to any of the others. I will ask my designer to
    refine one or two.\r\n\r\nI am braced ;) Lets call them: \r\n     X  ------------------------
    \ Y ----------------------------- Z\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/3PETforum2_3433.jpg]"
  created: '2008-07-11 16:35:11'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: much more interesting than stick figures. Is that supposed to be a tie on
    the bottom of the P? Keep brainstorming and sketching! If you come up with a few
    dozen more ideas like your last three and hopefully you will get something that
    is exactly what your looking for.
  created: '2008-07-11 17:06:26'
- author:
    name: KC
    picture: 115352
  body: 'Yes j.polo, that is a "want to be tie" It is the icon of business that is
    squeezed in there. Does it come off ok? '
  created: '2008-07-11 17:17:08'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "It looks like you're trying to convey way too many concepts in a single logo:\r\n\r\n1.
    The initials PET\r\n2. An apple for the teacher\r\n3. A tie to represent business
    people\r\n4. A smiley face\r\n\r\nBoil this down to one concept, or two maximum.
    What is the <strong>single</strong> most important idea you need the logo to get
    across?\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2008-07-11 18:04:59'
- author:
    name: rax
    picture: 112449
  body: "Maybe going back to <cite>\"how English bridges the gap, gets you there\"</cite>
    wouldn't be such a bad idea. It's a nice concept to start and you can focus on
    that to make a few sketches. \r\n\r\n--\r\n<cite>There must be some way out of
    here...</cite>"
  created: '2008-07-11 18:32:11'
- author:
    name: KC
    picture: 115352
  body: "You are right Lex, those elements are all there. Plus a podium :) I am not
    sure if you want me to think about that question or answer it. I think it is an
    important question.\r\n\r\nI want what EileenB wrote in another thread. \r\n\r\n\"If
    your target market is affluent clientele, having a professional logo is crucial
    to your success. The affluent are impressed by elegance and class and distrustful
    of anything less. \r\n\r\nYou want your brand to be something they brag about
    to their friends, right? You want your cards to be on refrigerators, right? Then,
    it\u2019s all about appearances. Your logo has to get their attention and fit
    into their world.\"\r\n\r\nWhen I read that and look at my work I fall way short
    of \"Professional\" but maybe someone might hang it on the fridge. Big firm logos
    do not end up on the fridge usually. \r\n\r\nMy logo needs to be professional
    and memorable. I could live with just text as Sharon Van Lieu suggests and that
    would be professional but I think that is as exciting as skim milk. It is like
    a lawyers shield. The last logo up there, Z, has all those layers of information
    and it becomes more interesting to me that way. The initials PET are not relevant
    nor is a smiley face. The apple is only an American symbol for teachers (at least
    it does not mean teacher in Germany). The tie may be the best element in the bunch
    and it is sexist you could argue. \r\n\r\nThe logo must convey the singe idea
    \"Quality\" to my customers(teachers) and their customers (companies).\r\n\r\nQuality.\r\n\r\nThanks
    for that question Lex, it made me think.\r\n\r\n-Ken"
  created: '2008-07-11 18:47:08'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I wasn't referring so much to abstract imagery as much as considering an
    abstract concept.\r\n\r\nSo 'communication' could be represented by an actual
    literal image of some sorts...book, etc.\r\n\r\nThe problem with the acronym approach
    is that it spells PET, which has way too much meaning a literal word.\r\n\r\n\"I
    think that is as exciting as skim milk\"\r\n\r\nLogos don't have to be exciting.
    That's what your overall marketing and branding is for.\r\n\r\nTake SONY. Boring
    logo. But all their branding is often quite memorable (or, at least, 'exciting'
    in some form)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-11 19:47:55'
- author:
    name: David Ford
    picture: 115355
  body: "Mate, its actually really interesting to see where this has gone from from
    your first ideas (last time i looked at this thread it was the preacher vs teacher
    thing). I think you've probably learned a hell of a lot and are maybe bit fed
    up (and confused?) by the subjectivity of the whole process. \r\n\r\nI think you're
    too focused and blinkered on this logo. You need to think of your brand as an
    entity. Where is your customer going to see your logo? Will it ever be in isolation?
    A logo is rarely seen in that context and i certainly wouldn't try and convey
    'professional' or 'quality' through any sort of imagery in isolation. You can't
    staple a tie to your logo and say \"we're professional....look...a tie!\" (actually,
    to me that imagery has violent undertones - look at the reservoir dogs branding).\r\n\r\nHow
    do you convey 'professional and 'quality'? Through your brand - its the way you
    answer your phone, how you invoice clients, the design of your logo, how you word
    an advertisement, the quality of your print, the coffee you serve, the course
    materials you hand out, the way you dress..etc etc\r\n\r\nThere seem to be quite
    a few suggestions for a typographic solution which you haven't really thought
    much off - its the easiest thing in the world to look at a text logo in isolation
    and say 'its boring' but i feel that you have to look at the bigger picture. For
    example look at the o2 logo - when do you ever see that on its own? It always
    has strong supporting imagery such as the bubbles or blue gradients which hold
    it all together and create interest. Seriously do some text explorations. You
    need to get out of microsoft word and into a notebook and pencil. Look at your
    brand - NOT just tne logo, look at graphical devices and imagery to be used in
    conjuction with your logo. \r\n\r\nIf you are able to, please take another look
    at the name - its horrible. 'Professional English Teachers' is like 'A can of
    beige paint' (compare www.books.com to www.amazon.com) if you aren't able to make
    changes to the name at least get rid of the dot com - use the url as a tagline
    or something instead. YOU WILL STUGGLE TO CONVEY PROFESSIONAL OR QUALITY IF THE
    NAME OF YOUR COMPANY ENDS IN DOT COM.\r\n\r\nAnyway, just some quick thoughts
    on taking another look at how you are getting on. I'm not in the best of moods
    as Ian Bell has just got out for 199 vs South Africa in the cricket, so apologies
    if i sound overly critical. Best of luck! \r\n"
  created: '2008-07-11 20:35:32'
- author:
    name: KC
    picture: 115352
  body: "David, your first post and your pile of yellow paint which, reminds me of
    poop, left me with a distorted perception of you. I want to thank you for writing
    another post here. You make a lot of sense and your examples are clear. This process
    it a full dunk baptism in all things marketing. Normally I am the pocket protector
    in the basement developing the medical devices for you and your parents. Branding,
    logos, corporate image and so on is delivered to me in a box of business cards
    and the printer is full too. It is fascinating to me how deep all this marketing
    stuff goes. I sure know when I see something that looks unprofessional to me.
    However, creating \u201Cprofessional\u201D from nothing is as challenging as creating
    a machine to drill holes in your head. Kudos to you all who share in these threads.\r\n\r\nI
    know O2, it lives in my phone, cell and this dsl connection. I like them (Deutsche
    Telecom, T-mobile, is a company without scruples, beware! but that is something
    for another thread) My mark will never be alone. I am entering a niche market
    and there is only a small budget making it all happen.\r\n\r\nNo one has ever
    said the name is horrible. Long, not so good to write, ect. The name was my choice.
    It must not be so. However, short names are hard to get or expensive. New words
    like, gurg8.com are not easy to remember. I think this can of beige paint is easy
    to remember. Why is .com neither quality not professional? \r\n\r\nI never understood
    cricket. Strange sport to me. Thanks for all your input, heeps!\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-11 21:55:01'
- author:
    name: David Ford
    picture: 115355
  body: "Maybe 'horrible' is too harsh - i guess what i mean is 'it could be better'.
    I've worked on branding projects with some pretty ordinary named companies in
    the past and the results have been successful. If the name is settled, thats absolutely
    fine, stick with it and do what you can to make it work. If you have the opportunity
    to look at alternatives, now is the time to do so. Research language acadamies,
    private training companies, professional training companies eg chef schools, medical,
    IT, flying etc.\r\n\r\n'Dot com' to me implies 'dot gone' it has a sense of the
    temporary, the start up, the guy running a business from his garage with a 'get
    big quick' weak business plan. It means all your business is done online. If I
    was to do business with a 'professional' dot com company i would expect to do
    ALL that business online. I would expect to have a personal login, take my lessons,
    pay for my lessons, take tests, get my lesson materials, find teaching jobs, discuss
    things with other teachers/students etc. ALL ONLINE (sorry, i'm guessing at what
    it is you actually do). If 'dotcom' is your business model, I would expect you
    to have a web 2.0 type brand - i would expect you to be innovative, simple, cashed-up,
    easy to use, cool, a thought leader.   \r\n\r\nYou are 100% correct - creating
    'professional' and 'quality' from nothing is very difficult as it is about so
    much more than a mark. You say you have a small budget which makes the task very
    difficult. You have to think seriously about a brand strategy, advertising, collateral,
    give-aways, web site etc. You need to be so focused and tight with your money
    - everything needs a purpose - cost/benefit.\r\n\r\nYou need to start somewhere
    and a logo is fine, but always think of it as within the context of your brand
    - thus a logo is never on its own. Like someone else said, look at supporting
    imagery that conveys the abstract concepts of your business. Combine it with your
    logo. Create mood boards, mission statements, taglines, core-concepts. \r\n\r\nI'm
    not trying to make the whole thing sound daunting and i admire you for getting
    off your arse and doing something you see a niche market in.\r\n\r\nI've taken
    Monday off work to watch the final (5th!) day of the cricket with some mates from
    work - i'm pretty sure the game will be a draw after the last 2 days of play but
    we are very much looking forward to it nonetheless!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-11 23:46:45'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "I just realized if your going for a professional and elegant look why not
    just use the initials pet as if a personal monogram? See:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/47193"
  created: '2008-07-13 07:35:12'
- author:
    name: KC
    picture: 115352
  body: "J-polo, That could work if it was abstract enough. I mean, it can not read
    as pet, the one on your lap. I will consider it.\r\n\r\nDavid,\r\nThe business
    model for PET is in plain terms an online classified ad. A yellow pages for teachers
    in a niche market. These teachers are already advertising in the local papers
    or another online classified or they are not advertising but working for a school
    which finds them the client and they earn an hourly rate for when they work (same
    work just less pay because they did not find the client). I want to exploit the
    power of the internet by offering unlimited text, pictures, video and so on. This
    can not be offered by print media at any price. It is not an original concept
    but nether is another taco stand in Los Angeles and a new one is born every day.
    Therefore, I want to do it better than the others out there and that starts with
    a great looking store front (logo, web site and brand). We will offer the best
    tasting tacos, I mean teachers :) You get the point.\r\n\r\nI would like to hear
    from anyone reading this thread what you think of the name ProfessionalEnglishTeachers.
    \  \r\n\r\nRank it based on:\r\nEasy to remember\r\nDescribes the product\r\nInteresting\r\nlength\r\nadd
    your own thought\r\n\r\nI have to keep in mind that a name like amazon.com is
    only known by anyone as a book seller because they spent 10s or 100s of millions
    of dollars to make that so and they have a world wide market. For me the market
    is the human resources departments of non English speaking countries and English
    speaking expats in the EU. I will not have 1000's of unique visitors per day on
    my site. It would be great but I think that that is beyond the actual needs of
    the English services market.  So many visitors would be the result of interesting
    content on the site and not the direct need of companies looking for teachers.
    I have ideas to generate traffic for exposure sake but this will not necessarily
    be selling the core product here, English language services.\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-13 11:32:57'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "Out of those cliparts I did kindda like A1, even though it was calling for
    changes and refinement.\r\n\r\nBut. It is true. It did have a mark that didn't
    have any special meaning except seeing professionals.\r\n\r\nBut I've got a different
    idea. What is one of the most memorable English sign anyone can think of? The
    Union Jack. Maybe you could incorporate this into the professional people there
    and get a professional English mark... No teachers though yet... But someone may
    come up with something else that will also add that.\r\n\r\nInitials (as suggested
    by previous poster) to my opinion work with professional services that are named
    with surnames (lawyers, fashion, architects etc.) I don't think they are good
    for organisations. Not as completely clean initials.\r\n\r\nI still think that
    direction proposed by vintagesignman in #2 is the best. Of course without the
    additional web address in black.\r\n\r\nAnd to rate your name:\r\nTo me ProfessionalEnglishTeachers
    sounds like an organisation that is used for connecting teachers to exchange experience,
    ideas and organise conferences where they share teaching strategies that are emerging.
    That's what Professional English Teachers sounds to me. I always think of it this
    way even though I've just read it's more or less a completely different thing.
    That's why I was also always going with vitage's design idea. Looks as public
    organisation.\r\n\r\nIf your business is more or less online, your logo should
    be completely different. first of all, web address CAN'T be www.professionalenglishteachers.com.
    It's ridiculously long and complicated. www.pet.com is wrong because it has a
    different meaning. But if your business is mainly online your name should consist
    of about 5 to 7 letters. And it's going to be memorable as a web address.\r\n___________\r\n<em>Robert
    Koritnik</em>"
  created: '2008-07-14 11:56:11'
- author:
    name: David Ford
    picture: 115355
  body: "The name reminds me of some sort of 'Professional Litigation Lawyers' or
    'Professional Software Testers' social group on facebook that meets up once a
    month at waxy o'connors in Leicester Square...please remember to bring your name
    tag. \r\n\r\nWhat about something like 'staffroom' 'the staffroom' 'junction'
    'blackboard' 'schooltie' 'mediaroom' 'english101' 'apple'...i don't know, just
    some rough ideas, but i honestly think theres a thousand more aspirational names
    than 'professional english teachers'"
  created: '2008-07-15 23:22:13'
- author:
    name: marz
  body: "The name describes the product to a \"T\", but it seems quite long. It's
    a mouthful. Imagine barely being able to peak English and having to read through
    those long words. From the marketing/name recognition standpoint, I think it would
    serve you well to go with something catchier.\r\n\r\nI like David's 'English101',
    it's brief, to the point and has alot of potential for a fun logo/logotype with
    the numbers.\r\n\r\nAnother random idea....spell the name purposely wrong: 'Lurn
    Inglesh'....or something like that. It catches attention; is easy to remember;
    and it has humor, which would give your service an edge in the industry. Maybe
    this particular example wouldn't work, but if you can find something that incorporates
    humor, a play-on-words, SOMETHING that will catch the target market's attention
    (and stick in their mind), this will greatly help you to differentiate your service
    from all the others.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-16 02:29:47'
- author:
    name: rax
    picture: 112449
  body: "like the worldwide known <cite>speak</cite> magazine. I still think there's
    way too much overthinking 'concept wise' at the time KC is sitting and making
    sketches. Boil it down to one or two, start from that and see where it takes you.\r\n\r\nIt
    would be wise, you'll probably come up with new ideas and you'll have a better
    understanding from where all this guys are talking you from.\r\n \r\n--\r\n<cite>There
    must be some way out of here...</cite>"
  created: '2008-07-16 06:01:07'
- author:
    name: KC
    picture: 115352
  body: "This is a side line from logos but may be of interest to some of you looking
    for domain names now or in the future. The most common and valuable names are
    with .com. Simply because that is the first thing people think of and internet
    browsers will default to .com if you do not write it in the address.\r\n\r\n\r\nMy
    experience says that if a single word exists in the dictionary someone has bought
    this domain and is using or selling it (mostly selling). If it is a single word
    like \"English\" they want $100,000 or more (when it is for sale) if it is the
    word \"inutile\" is might cost $200. Two word names are the same, many that make
    sense and are short words are expensive. Businessenglish is \"parked\" which means
    not in use and probably (for sale). Three word names are easier to get because
    they are long: boardroomenglish is available. It is a nice name and says english
    and business. If a name has a \"-\" it is less desirable and therefore cheaper.
    business-english is also parked. If the name has a number like 1englsih.com it
    is less desirable and in this case taken as is english101. However businessenglish101.com
    is available. I am not sure if Europeans will understand the 101 reference. I
    doubt it. But that is my gathered experience about domain names in the last several
    months. \r\n\r\nIf you start to spell words wrong then there are lots more short
    words available. They are harder to remember and are therefore less desireble.
    \r\n\r\nbizenglish101 is available\r\nbizenglish is not \r\nbizzenglish is available\r\netcte
    is availabe.... englsih trainers,coaches,translators ect. (you can build initials
    this way but combos with 4 or less letters are hard to find unless you use numbers
    too.)\r\n\r\n\r\nThis is a great site to look up .com, .net, and .orgs because
    it is as fast as you can type\r\n\r\nhttp://www.brandgopher.com/\r\n\r\nTry it
    out, it can be fun. "
  created: '2008-07-16 11:44:57'
- author:
    name: KC
    picture: 115352
  body: FYI businessenglish . com is $35,000. for the next 5 days. That is a real
    price quote I recieved today.
  created: '2008-07-16 15:13:58'
date: '2008-07-04 17:25:19'
node_type: forum
title: New logo advice and critique

---
