---
author:
  name: npgraphicdesign
body: "A few legal questions related to typefaces that I'm still a bit...how can you
  say...thick on?\r\n\r\n1. Work is created on a school computer (since I work in
  the academic world) and a certain typeface is available. A student submits it for
  a book and it gets selected, wins a competition, have it included in a show, etc.
  Is there any potential for legal consequences, since the student used a typeface
  w/ an academic license?\r\n\r\n2. A question that some of my students are particularly
  interested in. Since you can find almost any typeface online illegally (i'm referring
  to torrents and other file sharing communities), if a student of mine download a
  typeface illegally, uses it for a project, and they create the work at home and
  not on a school computer...a. can they get in trouble for it legally? b. can I get
  in trouble as an educator, knowing that they did not purchase the typeface? c. if
  they face any legal issues, can their work be disqualified/kicked out of a competition,
  art show, etc\r\n\r\n3. If someone downloads typefaces from a file-sharing community,
  what are any/all legal consequences that they can face? \r\n\r\nAny other legal
  tidbits/suggestions/advice would be great. Thanks!\r\n\r\nNikita"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "1. A student book into a contest and show doesn\u2019t cease being a student
    book. So I see no issue here. \r\n\r\n2. Theoretically one could get in trouble,
    but it almost never happens. It\u2019s very hard for type designers/foundries
    to track who is purchasing and using their fonts, and even then it\u2019s rare
    for anyone to get sued.\r\n\r\n3. Because file sharing generally requires the
    user to upload the file to other users while downloading downloaders expose themselves
    to lawsuits for making a copyrighted work available. Penalties can be as high
    as $250,000 per work, and if a user is downloading a large collection of typefaces,
    theoretical damages could escalate into the tens of millions of dollars. The Record
    Industry has used these theoretical damages to strongarm students and into forking
    over their life savings and selling all of their assets rather than go to trial.
    But nobody outside of the RIAA actually pursues these kind of suits against individual
    downloaders; the likely penalty is corporate lawyers sending a cease-and-desist
    letter to the offending ISP or University, who then calls up the user and threatens
    to cut off internet access."
  created: '2008-07-04 20:27:29'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "This thread probably needs to be shifted to \"release\" \r\n\r\n1. Will depend
    on the EULA - does the EULA prohibit commercial use? And does this use constitute
    commercial use?\r\n\r\n2. Bigger question - why would any teacher accept student
    work using unlicensed fonts? Don't all students sign something that says they
    won\u2019t plagiarize, copy, steal, and have to cite their sources? \r\n\r\n3.
    Depends, on the fonts, the profile of the use.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-04 20:33:14'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Not a legal advice, but the fonts that can be found for download from dubious
    sites are often not the official foundry versions. They get extracted from PDF
    or Flash files, autohinted, autokerned if at all, format-converted ... So basically
    if students work with these they are learning to work with less than optimal tools.
    It's for their own good to work with decent material.\r\n\r\nMight be an opportunity
    to analyze font quality issues with your students, compare badly done typefaces
    with good ones &c.\r\n\r\nJens"
  created: '2008-07-04 20:36:13'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "More on 2.\r\n\r\nTeacher: \u201CThat\u2019s an interesting font, looks familiar,
    what is it?\u201D \r\nStudent: \u201CIt\u2019s Gotham!\u201D\r\nTeacher: \u201CDid
    you pay for it?\u201D\r\nStudent: \u201CNo I downloaded it from the Web.\u201D\r\nTeacher:
    \u201CThat\u2019s cheating \u2013 do it again.\u201D\r\n \r\nor\r\n\r\nTeacher:
    \u201CThat\u2019s an interesting font, looks familiar, what is it?\u201D \r\nStudent:
    \u201CIt\u2019s Gotham!\u201D\r\nTeacher: \u201CDid you pay for it?\u201D\r\nStudent:
    \u201CNo, daddy did.\u201D\r\nTeacher: \u201CThat\u2019s cheating \u2013 do it
    again.\u201D\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-04 20:38:12'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> if a student of mine download a typeface illegally, uses it for a project,
    and they create the work at home and not on a school computer\r\n\r\n\r\nIllegal
    is Illegal. Very simple. Are you going to carry a gun illegally? Illegal is Illegal.
    \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-04 20:56:45'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Illegal is Illegal. Very simple. Are you going to carry a gun illegally?
    Illegal is Illegal.\r\n\r\nMaybe pot smoking is a better analogy. You know the
    students are smoking pot at home, but you kind of frown upon them lighting up
    in class. And listing \"pot smoker\" as a hobby in their resumes is kind of like
    using downloaded fonts in their portfolio.\r\n\r\nPS I love the new pic! "
  created: '2008-07-04 23:10:51'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Maybe pot smoking is a better analogy....\r\n\r\nAnd Smoking Guns?  :)\r\n\r\n>
    PS I love the new pic!\r\n\r\nThe Dark Knight is here... \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-05 20:33:51'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "On 1. When the student's work goes into the book to be published - who holds
    the copyright? Did the student sign an agreement to be in the book - if yes, what
    did that agreement say? If no, does the university/college/school/organization
    own its copyrighted material? Was the student advised of his/her rights. \r\n\r\nI
    ask this because of an essay I once wrote. I wrote it during a college course
    on the history of New York and the professor used it in a compilation. My compensation
    - a good grade and I no longer had any legal rights to my \"own\" work.\r\n\r\n2.
    This is such a difficult question in today's world. Yes, illegal is illegal -
    and thanks to the Clintons we have a don't ask, don't tell policy as a normal
    way of life. It's illegal. Some fonts are fine for personal work - and I love
    Jens response. Education is the best way to go for the future. An understanding
    of the hard work that went into creating the font (sorry guys, not everyone can
    make a font) the thought process of the personality of the letters - how they
    fit together - work together, etc. If the designer is alive - it would be great
    if you could get them to come in for a class to discuss type. What an opportunity.\r\n\r\n3.
    I would like to share, once again, the Quark story. They went after a computer
    specialist company in New York City. The \"gurus\" had bought about 12 copies
    of Quark. They installed them for one company and were paid. They submitted it
    to Quark under their own company's name. When they were called into the next company
    to get them computer-ready -- they used the same 12 copies. And they did this
    over and over and over and over... well, you get the picture. When Quark put out
    its next program and the upgrades kept coming in with the same serial numbers
    - they had a lawsuit to pursuit. They did and they won. \r\nThe moral of this
    story: If it's big enough to go after - they will.\r\n\r\nOT - hey Dark Knight
    - you ready to turn to the Dark Side?"
  created: '2008-07-05 22:28:20'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "<cite> 1. Will depend on the EULA - does the EULA prohibit commercial use?
    And does this use constitute commercial use? <cite>\r\n\r\nWhy would it depend
    on the EULA? The student is not a party to it."
  created: '2008-07-06 06:57:05'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "I can't believe you are trying to form some kind of analogy with guns and
    drugs\u2026"
  created: '2008-07-06 12:57:00'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: Fonts don't kill people. People kill fonts.
  created: '2008-07-06 15:31:20'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Why would it depend on the EULA? The student is not a party to it.\r\n\r\nThe
    original question...\r\n\r\n>1. Work is created on a school computer (since I
    work in the academic world) and a certain typeface is available. A student submits
    it for a book and it gets selected, wins a competition, have it included in a
    show, etc. <STRONG>Is there any potential for legal consequences, since the student
    used a typeface w/ an academic license?</STRONG>\r\n\r\nThe fact that the student
    is using the font under an academic license isn't in dispute. Why wouldn't they
    be using it under the terms of the academic license? \r\n\r\n>I can\u2019t believe
    you are trying to form some kind of analogy with guns and drugs\u2026\r\n\r\nThe
    school in question is in the US. If it were in England analogies would be based
    on pies, fish and chips and not paying to ride the tube, or stealing a policeman's
    helmet.\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-06 15:56:07'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I wouldn't dwell on the legalities/penalties with the students as an educator
    and focus on the fact that shouldn't be doing that from a industry ethics standpoint.
    That will likely sink in better and hit closer to home.\r\n\r\n\"Illegal is Illegal.
    Very simple.\"\r\n\r\nNot sure which country you hail from, but at least in the
    US, IP law is hardly 'simple'."
  created: '2008-07-07 15:11:39'
- author:
    name: Lantz
    picture: 115246
  body: "Well, maybe you guys went to a different school than I did, but the way I
    saw it then, and still kind of see it now is that when you are in school- it's
    all \"fair game\". School is expensive enough and it is no time to be saving up
    200 dollars so that you can get five weights of \"Interstate\".\r\n\r\nOnce you
    are out in the real world it is up to you to risk getting caught with your hands
    in the cookie jar, but until then pay no attention to the man behind the curtain.\r\n\r\nAlthough
    I'm sure it is technically illegal on paper, I really don't think type foundries
    have become so far removed from schools that they could sue students. So in effect
    it is legal until a foundry sues (and wins), which so far as I know they never
    have.\r\n\r\nImagine a publisher of sheet music suing a student for using a photocopy
    to win a recital!"
  created: '2008-07-08 03:52:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Lantz, you describe the reality at many colleges, maybe even the one where
    Nikita is an Assistant Professor. \r\n\r\nBut I think what\u2019s more interesting
    are the educators actions around this. At your school were the staff okay with
    it? Did they encourage it? eg. \"You won't get a job unless you use Interstate.\"
    Did the practice ever get questioned? Were they okay with the downloaded fonts
    being used on school computers, or did they only turn a blind eye when they were
    installed on students own machines? \r\n\r\nWhen you went looking for a job -
    did the question of font choices in your portfolio ever come up?   "
  created: '2008-07-08 04:34:44'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "I totally agree with Lantz on this one, and I have been a typography teacher
    for 4 years in a well known french school. some posters here are extremely disconnected
    from reality. I am, for one, convinced that if today's students in the whole world
    stopped using the fonts they could not afford in their learning time, most of
    you designers would be in big trouble.\r\n\r\nI do now own the license of the
    fonts I use for any job I do, but I didnt own any font while I was a student myself,
    and it was obvious that 99% of my students didnt own these either, but I honestly
    didnt care. I spent enough time explaining them that they have to get the license
    of a type at the moment they use it for a job or whatever, and I am sure most
    of them understood this point. If all of you guys are trying to tell me now that
    you owned the rights to all the fonts you were using as a student, you are either
    lying or very very rich, or you are using only Helvetica and Times. In any case,
    you are not what a student generally is: eager to learn and use the latest creations
    to be able to stay tuned to what's being done, and completely broke. What if Van
    Gogh had no money at all to buy his paint tubes? I guess you would tell him to
    wait until he could.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2008-07-08 08:14:17'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "When I was a student, I either had to comp lettering up by hand, buy the
    Letraset and rub it down, or pay to have text galleys typeset by my local type
    shop. Stealing Letraset or stiffing the typesetter was never an option.\r\n\r\nI
    understand the pragmatic arguments that are used to justify students not licensing
    fonts, but I think they should realize how lucky they are to have so much available
    to them and that by living in this legal gray area, they actually get off pretty
    easy.\r\n\r\nAnd that hypothetical student who won the recital? They may indeed
    have been able to photocopy the sheet music from the school's music library (that's
    covered by the Fair Use doctrine), but I'm pretty sure they had to purchase or
    lease their violin. It's a shaky analogy -- is a font the music, or is it the
    instrument?\r\n\r\n-- Kent.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-08 14:24:45'
- author:
    name: Lantz
    picture: 115246
  body: "At my school, and probably most schools I would imagine, students can't install
    anything on school computers. Also, the school used all proper protocols for getting
    the rights to the fonts they had (and they had quite a few). But if I turned in
    a project using one that wasn't on the school computers, which I did a few times,
    the teachers never questioned it. They spent their time like most teachers probably
    would, talking about how I applied them in the project. As I'm sure we all know
    getting a font does not a project make, and learning how to use fonts, and finding
    the appropriate treatment of them, requires that you play with them and see how
    they look\u2014whether you draw them by hand, or trace them in illustrator, or
    \"steal\" them.\r\n\r\nOf course no analogy is perfect, but I think the best analog
    of the violin is the computer, not the font, in this case. Copying sheet music
    from the library would be fair use, if it wasn't public domain. I think copying
    a font, however you go about copying it, in the pursuit of education, is fair
    use too.\r\n\r\nAs I say though, everything changes when you get into the real
    world, as it should."
  created: '2008-07-08 16:16:49'
- author:
    name: npgraphicdesign
  body: "sii,\r\nI'm curious to know what lengths you went to in finding out where
    I work..;)\r\n\r\nSome great comments here. It is difficult to completely prevent
    students from having access to free typefaces, especially when they are so widely
    available. It's even harder to prevent students from obtaining them on file-sharing
    networks. \r\n\r\nFrom an ethical standpoint, as a professor, if I find out that
    a student used a typeface obtained illegally, could I tell them to use another
    typeface or fail them for 'stealing' a typeface? Yes, technically I can. I can
    also lecture about professional ethics, stealing, use of 'free' typefaces, etc.
    \r\n\r\nBut, remembering my time as a student and how much money I had, I didn't
    have enough to purchase typefaces. While I can't order a student to purchase a
    typeface, should or rather, CAN I fail a project because they utilized a stolen
    typeface? \r\n\r\nAs Lantz said, a typeface doesn't always make a project. On
    our machines at school we have a set of fully-licensed typefaces that students
    are welcome to. And, it's a quite extensive set! In theory, a student should be
    able to find a typeface for any project. While it is the professor's duty to educate
    student about ethical use of type, is it on their shoulder to prevent student's
    from using typefaces found through illegal means? If the students used school
    equipment to illegally download/install fonts, that's one story. But if they do
    it at home, on their own computer, should I still forbid the use of typefaces
    obtained in such a manner?"
  created: '2008-07-08 18:38:39'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I\u2019m curious to know what lengths you went to in finding out where I
    work..;)\r\n\r\nJust followed the link from your profile, to your web site, to
    your resume - three clicks - not a lot of effort. ;-)\r\n\r\nI was interested
    in your schools IP policy and what it said on the subject...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.ccsu.edu/its/usersupport/PoliciesProcedures/University%20Rules%20and%20Regulations%20Governing%20Computer%20Accounts%20and%20Equipment.htm
    \ \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-08 19:38:38'
- author:
    name: npgraphicdesign
  body: "Only three clicks? Damn you're good! I hear the NSA has a few openings. ;)\r\n\r\nI
    doubt that a lot of people adhere to that policy. Besides, we're designers right?
    The 'normal folk' policies do not apply to us. Right...right..RIGHT??? :D"
  created: '2008-07-08 19:44:47'
- author:
    name: jt_the_ninja
    picture: 115340
  body: "Numbers not necessarily corresponding to the original questions.\r\n\r\n(1)
    The content of an essay/paper is text. It is not the font. Therefore, any copyright
    issues would have to do with the content. Most teachers dictate 12pt Times New
    Roman (or similar), so it's not a terribly big deal. I found Palatino or Garamond
    on most computers I ever used, so when I could I used them - especially Palatino,
    which has greater space between lines and looks very comparable to Times New Roman
    12pt when at 11pt. \r\n\r\nIf the paper's going to be put in a compilation, the
    student really doesn't have any dictate as to the font used therein...digital
    copies are the thing nowadays, so it'll get formatted however the rest of the
    book is formatted (literary journals sometimes make exceptions, but not often).\r\n\r\n(2)
    Teacher's rules stand; were I a teacher, grading an essay, font wouldn't even
    come into the picture, unless it were Comic Sans 20pt or something like that.
    \r\n\r\n(3) Now, if this is a graphic design project...slightly different, I guess.
    However, if the school provides all the applications/materials, and hence fonts...yeah.
    And like a lot of people here have said, it's really hard to track this kind of
    stuff. When I do Photoshop work, I'll typically set the height at 75% or so, which
    distorts the font even more, just as an example. \r\n\r\nSo I guess my final thoughts
    would be this: chances of getting caught are near nil, so it's up to the teacher
    to give final say, I should think.\r\n\r\nPeace,\r\nJT"
  created: '2008-07-08 21:17:50'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "Are 99% of design students type thieves? Sure, but pointing that out won't
    make type designers any richer. Instead, foundries should be looking to new business
    models.\r\n\r\nThere's probably two reasons most students steal fonts: the urge
    to collect, and the feeling that they don't have any good typefaces. There's not
    a lot anyone can do about the urge to collect. But I think the right kind of marketing
    could help alleviate the feeling that they don't have any good typefaces.\r\n\r\nI
    think only a few students have 100% pirated fonts on their computer. Most type
    teachers include something like Adobe's Student Type Collection on their required
    materials list the first day of class, and being under $100, most students don't
    have too big of a problem going out and getting it legitimately. I think the problem
    arises because, wisely, the Adobe Type Collection is mostly workhorse type families,
    and these are not overly exciting, especially in the hands of people who aren't
    skilled at using them. So the solution is usually to believe there's something
    wrong with those fonts, and that if you download 10,000 fonts then your problems
    will be solved. \r\n\r\nHalf the problem, then, is education -- teachers need
    to show students early on how much power they can get out of a seemingly bland
    type family, and feel confident that they can do great work if they only have
    a few fonts installed on their system. The second thing that could help this problem
    is to fill the void in the marketplace -- students want what's new at Veer, or
    the latest House Ind. script. Most students are not going to get too excited about
    a classic multi-weight text family with old-style lining figures and support for
    some Eastern European language they've never heard of. I think a supplementary
    pack or packs that address this desire would do really well commercially. The
    key is that the fonts be up to the minute, reflecting what's cool in graphic design
    at that exact time. Of course, a lot of students will steal type because they
    can, but maybe a lot of students are stealing type because there's no product
    out there filling that void."
  created: '2008-07-09 00:36:14'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "><em>Most students are not going to get too excited about a classic multi-weight
    text family with old-style lining figures and support for some Eastern European
    language they\u2019ve never heard of.</em>\r\n\r\nUnless of course the student
    is studying on a proper graphic design course in the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary,
    or Romania, for instance. There are quite a few of these. Some of them even have
    typography professors who teach them about the uses for old style vs. lining figures,
    etc."
  created: '2008-07-09 01:48:22'
- author:
    name: npgraphicdesign
  body: "Hi Dan!! \r\n\r\nHow are you doing?\r\n\r\n*waves all the way from Connecticut"
  created: '2008-07-09 02:17:13'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Besides, we\u2019re designers right? The \u2019normal folk\u2019 policies
    do not apply to us. Right...right..RIGHT??? :D\r\n\r\nAbsolutely Designers are
    special - at birth they are issued with what's known as a \"creative license\"
    that exempts them from the rules of \"normal folk\" :-) "
  created: '2008-07-09 03:21:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's quite alright to steal something if you can't afford it because you're
    a student, and won't get caught because the people that own it are stupid enough
    to not protect their property and prosecute theft, and besides, they should be
    looking to new business models.\r\n\r\nAnd when you're starting out your career,
    it's also alright to use pirated software, because you're still poor and paying
    off your student debt, and how can you make a profit if you don't? And how can
    you compete against the establishment otherwise?\r\n\r\nAnd even when you've become
    established, it's still OK to pirate, because you always have, and everyone else
    does (including the up-and-comers snapping at your heels), and anyone who pays
    for that stuff is stupid, and friends share their software don't they, and graphic
    designers are underpaid anyway.\r\n\r\nAnd if you do occasionally pay for a font
    licence, well, that's practically sainthood."
  created: '2008-07-09 04:25:17'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "Simon, you original answer was:\r\n\r\n<cite> 1. Will depend on the EULA
    - does the EULA prohibit commercial use? And does this use constitute commercial
    use? <cite>\r\n\r\nThe school didn't make a commercial use. The student's relationship
    is with the school. The EULA may give the IP rights holder remedies against the
    school, but are you sure it gives rights against the student? \r\n"
  created: '2008-07-09 06:53:59'
- author:
    name: npgraphicdesign
  body: 'Well said Nick. '
  created: '2008-07-09 13:43:02'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "@ Dan: I don't want to disparage support for multiple languages in any way,
    particularly ones that have taken a back seat to more dominant business languages.
    My purpose was to compare something that people in the type community get excited
    about vs. what a typical graphic design student is going to be excited about.\r\n\r\n@
    Nick: I wish that everyone did pay for font licenses, as probably 99% of people
    on Typophile do. In the graphic design world, it's something that is rarely confronted
    -- you walk into an agency with 10,000 fonts on their system, and you know that
    it's probably pirated, but what are you going to do? The options are to 1) prosecute
    aggressively, which is a financial impossibility for most foundries, and regardless
    of how right the foundries are, they're going to be seen as raining on the parade
    of people who should be their customers 2) create a copy safeguard in the software,
    which will be easily hacked and shared on p2p networks 2 weeks after it's released,
    or 3) develop a new means of distributing fonts, that encourages designers to
    purchase fonts.\r\n\r\nOne thing that makes stealing fonts really attractive is
    that it's private: you get on a p2p network, move everything into your font management
    program, and it looks like you bought them legitimately. I work with designers
    all the time who have $100,000 of fonts on their system, but I'm not going to
    accuse them of stealing, even though it's highly unlikely that they bought them.
    Maybe font foundries need to start publicly praising those clients who do purchase
    licenses. And perhaps there's some way to publicly shame agencies and corporations
    that use fonts without proper licenses?"
  created: '2008-07-09 18:16:50'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">The school didn\u2019t make a commercial use. The student\u2019s relationship
    is with the school. The EULA may give the IP rights holder remedies against the
    school, but are you sure it gives rights against the student?\r\n\r\nI've not
    spent a ton of time looking at academic EULAs but the agreement would be between
    the foundry and the school, so any violation of the EULA would be the school's
    issue. The school probably has some kind of agreement/contractual relationship
    with the student.  "
  created: '2008-07-09 18:29:54'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "> <em>typical graphic design student</em>\r\n\r\nSorry to keep harping on
    this, but it is this generalization that bothers me. Can someone please point
    out the typical graphic design student to me? Where I sit, the typical graphic
    design student is not American. Moreover, English is probably not his or her first-language
    either.\r\n\r\nI've studied design at four universities in three countries. I
    don't think that the \"typical\" student is easy to pin down at all."
  created: '2008-07-09 18:48:43'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "OT: Hi Nikita, greet Connecticut for me. Sometimes, I miss New England. But
    never in the summer! Or the winter, for that matter\u2026"
  created: '2008-07-09 18:50:17'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Lantz: the sheet music analogy does not work. Fonts are tools with value;
    sheet music doesn't have a lot of its own value without a performer interpreting
    it. Is there a big market for pirated sheet music? \r\n\r\nFonts are a new kind
    of property; virtual, \"intellectual\" property that can be replicated infinitely,
    like software programs and songs. That analogy (pirated songs) holds up much better
    if you are going to make a comparison. Be wary of making comparisons between anything
    physical, which requires additional resources to reproduce (copy) and digital
    data which does not. It's a new concept.\r\n\r\nFeelTheKern: Sadly you've missed
    the real reason students use fonts they don't have licenses for: They can. Kent
    points out that there previously was no way to get these products/services for
    free, so students didn't just sit around bitching and scheming ways to get them
    for free. Now that this concept of instant download, instant replication is so
    widespread, students don't think about how what they are doing is illegal, unethical,
    problematic, or anything. What's their motivation? They would prefer to lean on
    all the excuses Nick lists, and demonize anyone who suggests that they do the
    right thing. Many students and designers are equally blithe about using pirated
    copies of InDesign, Illustrator, etc. for all the same reasons, \"It's too expensive/a
    rip-off\", \"everyone's doing it\", or \"nobody is going to arrest me\". They
    are excuses and rationalizations, not reasons. But they are widespread because
    there is very little enforcement or other electronic barrier to copying/downloading.
    If students could get their books, rent, food and clothing for free thru a magical
    TV, believe me they would. \r\n\r\nIn the case of a large agency with thousands
    of unlicensed fonts, that's easy: get them licensed. How old or well-paid do you
    have to be to finally accept that tools and supplies cost money? If you don't
    pay rent or utilities on your agency's studio space, do you just get to skate
    along hoping the landlord doesn't notice? \"Yeah but our rent is rilly high so
    I shouldn't have to pay\".   ;)   A well-run design house makes font purchases
    part of their budget, along with all the other costs that go into their business.
    \r\n"
  created: '2008-07-09 19:34:09'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Ultimately, this goes back to the idea of foundries considering ways to enable
    students to utilize their typefaces legitimately without having to fork over for
    full licenses.\r\n\r\nOne could argue an explicit \"free for educational use only\"
    license might be beneficial here if the argument is that students will use these
    fonts anyways. At least with a 'free for education use only' the concept of font
    licensing is reinforced with the students, even if no money is exchanged.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-09 21:36:27'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "There are many products available to students (who show enrollment) at substantial
    discounts. Sometimes they are limited versions, but often they are no different
    from regular versions. I like this, because it acknowledges that students don't
    have the same income as professionals, and it also acknowledges that the software
    is worth something and should be licensed legitimately. Foundries can offer similar
    discounts.\r\n\r\n\"students will use the fonts anyway[s]\"  Is that really a
    reason to offer the fonts for free? To me it seems to be saying \"oh well, we
    can't make you buy them, so go ahead\". I don't think that's a realistic position
    for a business. It also says the fonts don't really have any value. \r\n\r\nWhen
    students graduate, typically they stretch their student licenses out as long as
    possible. They aren't eager to pay full prices for conferences, software, periodicals,
    etc. When they are forced to upgrade at full price, they do. With fonts, there's
    no upgrade path, so those graduates can then use the fonts they got for free indefinitely
    (or until the next big format shakeup). \r\n\r\nMaybe what would be useful is
    limited (basic) versions of fonts at lower prices. Some foundries already offer
    a number of options.\r\n\r\nAnd then there's the whole literacy issue: Too often
    it seems, someone is crying about how terribly expensive a font is, and it turns
    out they aren't really looking at the prices, they're just seeing the one, full
    OpenType family price and apparently assuming that is the price for one face.
    If people really want to license type, there are options, and they are affordable,
    if they would be bothered to shop around. But it's unrealistic to expect unlimited
    choices, if one's budget is limited. "
  created: '2008-07-09 22:12:48'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"To me it seems to be saying \u201Coh well, we can\u2019t make you buy them,
    so go ahead\u201D. I don\u2019t think that\u2019s a realistic position for a business.
    It also says the fonts don\u2019t really have any value.\"\r\n\r\nWell, if the
    argument is that people are 'pirating' fonts at college anyways, than that's ALREADY
    an issue. \"Free and disregarding the licensing and ethical issues\" seems to
    be a poorer solution than \"Free but realized that these are commercial products
    and the foundry is explicitly granting them permission ONLY for student work\"
    seems a tad better, even if the financial exchange AT THAT MOMENT is the same.\r\n\r\nHopefully,
    by being able to reinforce the concept of licensing, it may lead to more purchased
    licenses once the student enters the marketplace. Of course, that is the key there
    and I obviously have no data to back up my argument (or invalidate it, for that
    matter).\r\n\r\n\"With fonts, there\u2019s no upgrade path\"\r\n\r\nRight. That's
    what I'm actually suggesting...valid licenses with an upgrade path.\r\n\r\n\"But
    it\u2019s unrealistic to expect unlimited choices, if one\u2019s budget is limited.\"\r\n\r\nWell,
    there's the rub. It IS realistic when it comes to digital media. It's even been
    that way for a while with some analog media. When I was 12, and couldn't afford
    the $13 CD, my friend dubbed it for me on to cassette. Right or wrong, it is realistic.
    \ "
  created: '2008-07-09 22:47:01'
- author:
    name: Lantz
    picture: 115246
  body: "Wow. Discussions around here can really take off! Catching up is like a second
    job!\r\n\r\ncrossgrove: I know you are going to think this is odd, but way back
    in my first run through college one of my teachers announced (roughly\u2014it's
    been a while):\r\n\r\n  \"I heard there will be a guy selling pirated sheet music
    tomorrow in the parking lot. I don't encourage anyone to support this illegal
    activity, but just in case\u2026 can you guys in the back hear me?\u2026 in case
    anyone is around the Funkhouser building parking lot between the hours of 1 and
    5pm tomorrow, and you see him I just want you to know that the reason that HIS
    SHEET MUSIC is SO CHEAP is that it is photocopies and that is illegal copyright
    infringement.\" \r\n\r\nApparently, in order to get sheet music you have to go
    to a music store and get the music in books, which are kind of expensive. I can't
    speak for how helpful cheap sheet music is, because I studied painting, and can
    barely play a cd (remember cds?) much less a guitar.\r\n\r\nLike I said though,
    no analogy is perfect.\r\n\r\nI couldn't agree more though that fonts are a new
    kind of property even different from digitally reproduced songs, which for the
    most part can't really be used to produce anything else of value. Fonts are very
    special, since they aren't really valuable until they are put to use to create
    something else. Kind of like sheet music (but not exactly because, again, no analogy
    is perfect.)\r\n\r\n:)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-10 02:28:53'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "<cite> I\u2019ve not spent a ton of time looking at academic EULAs but the
    agreement would be between the foundry and the school, so any violation of the
    EULA would be the school\u2019s issue. </cite>\r\n\r\n\"the agreement would be
    between the foundry and the school, so any violation of the EULA would be the
    school\u2019s issue.\" -- That's right, but unless the student somehow became
    bound by the EULA, the student's conduct is not a \"violation of the EULA\". If
    the foundry can point out a breach by the <em>school</em>, then it could take
    action against the <em>school</em>. Any rights of the foundry against the student
    must be found outside the EULA.\r\n\r\n<cite> The school probably has some kind
    of agreement/contractual relationship with the student.</cite>\r\n\r\nPossibly.
    It's also possible the school, if sued, could turn around and sue the student."
  created: '2008-07-10 07:55:27'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "@ Crossgrove: \"Sadly you\u2019ve missed the real reason students use fonts
    they don\u2019t have licenses for: They can.\"\r\n\r\nI ended my first post in
    this thread by saying \"Of course, a lot of students will steal type because they
    can, but maybe a lot of students are stealing type because there\u2019s no product
    out there filling that void.\" So I agree with you to some extent, I just think
    there's a lot of students who would be willing to buy type, but it's not marketed
    to them in the right way. The best way, I think, to get students to buy type is
    to have it listed as required materials by their teachers. This would overcome
    a number of mental hurdles -- it becomes like any another book they have to buy
    for their quarter/semester, it gets them in the habit of buying type, and they
    need to have it by a certain date, whereas downloading it off the internet is
    unreliable. If student font packs were marketed to teachers as packs for expressive
    typography, or editorial design, or beginning typography, advanced typography,
    etc, I think a lot of people would tell their students it was a required material.
    The basic idea is that a font pack could be a way to enrich the curriculum. Not
    that this would be the end-all solution to stopping piracy by any means, but it's
    an idea. I think most students are like people who download music illegally --
    just because they have a lot of illegal music on their computer doesn't mean they
    don't have a shelf full of CDs and a closet full of band t-shirts. Of course there's
    going to be that person who downloads 200,000 songs onto their hard drive, but
    most people don't have the patience for that.\r\n\r\n@ Dan: \"Can someone please
    point out the typical graphic design student to me? Where I sit, the typical graphic
    design student is not American. Moreover, English is probably not his or her first-language
    either.\"\r\n\r\nMy point was that the typical graphic design student is not going
    to get terribly excited about typefaces of the workhorse variety, where I used
    the examples of something like old-style lining figures and an extended character
    set as something that makes a typeface very valuable but isn't necessarily attractive
    to most design students. The typical graphic design student probably is not American,
    I agree -- half my graduating class spoke a language other than English as their
    first language. But I think I was more interested in non-Latin scripts and extended
    character sets than anyone I went to school with (actually, the only one), and
    I've found that to be even more true since I started working. This could be due
    to the fetishizing of English as the language of high design, and it could just
    be that type plays a small role in the work of a lot of designers. "
  created: '2008-07-12 02:47:57'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> \"If someone downloads typefaces from a file-sharing community, what are
    any/all legal consequences that they can face?\"\r\n\r\nFantomas:\r\n\r\nCommercial
    foundries often sell fonts which are in fact public domain fonts. I recently made
    a list of \"One Thousand Linotype Public Domain Fonts\" which are as free as the
    birds:\r\n\r\nsee http://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/publicdomain.pdf\r\n\r\nTo
    pay \"licence fees\" for public domain fonts is \"strictly for the birds\"."
  created: '2008-07-12 15:14:11'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: Oh, more comedy from Uli. A shame no one seems to have told Linotype the news.
  created: '2008-07-12 17:25:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'Another rationalisation for piracy: I''m not really a thief, just smarter
    than the dim-wits who think so.'
  created: '2008-07-12 18:22:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'Here''s another: Yes officer, the jewelry doesn''t belong to me, but I haven''t
    worn it yet, so that''s not theft.'
  created: '2008-07-12 18:31:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "When I was a student, it was really hard to steal type and they didn't even
    lock the doors. Of course the type then was made by ATF so all you had to do was
    pocket 2 tons of lead and then drag a Vandercook out to your dorm room. Not that
    we were so vertuous then. It was just impossible. Somehow, we all did our projects
    legally and used only the few fonts available in the type lab.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-12 18:39:29'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: '@ Nick Shinn: I don''t think anybody wants to argue that piracy should be
    accepted, but pointing out that stealing is unethical is not going to make you
    or anyone else any richer.'
  created: '2008-07-12 18:53:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Rationalizing that stealing is OK because other folks do it does make people
    poorer, though.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-12 19:26:39'
date: '2008-07-04 20:06:41'
node_type: forum
title: Typeface copyright issues.

---
