---
author:
  name: John Hudson
  picture: 110397
body: "TypeCon is a little more than a week away, and I realise that I still don't
  know where the best espresso is to be had in Buffalo. I mean seriously good, 25-second
  shots of chocolatey, crema-rich darkness, not Starbuck's burnt black p*ss. Anyone
  know?\r\n\r\nWhile we're on the topic of Buffalo, what restaurants are recommended?\r\n\r\nI've
  found a <a href=\"http://www.the-latinmass.com/id137.html\">traditional Roman rite
  Mass</a> for Sunday morning, so church is taken care of."
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Restaurant guide... http://www.typecon.com/talk.php?id=156 \r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si"
  created: '2008-07-07 04:22:19'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "On a related note: the Hyatt is next door to a real gym!\r\n<cite>For guests
    interested in a more complete workout, we offer complimentary admission to the
    Olympia Health Club.</cite>"
  created: '2008-07-07 04:43:59'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Staying healthy and TypeCon are not really concepts that fit together well.
    TypeCon, followed by detox/rehab might work. But anything that doesn''t cut into
    hot-tub time, (http://www.typecon.com/talk.php?id=165) is probably all good. '
  created: '2008-07-07 06:11:11'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "That sounds mighty good James! \r\n\r\nI have some hard core coffee contacts
    though,  so I will send out a feeler. If I get something worth talking about I
    will post it.\r\n\r\nAt dinner time I may follow Ale. He has been doing his research."
  created: '2008-07-07 06:20:08'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Talk of coffee in Buffalo has me pining for ligatures right here.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-07-07 14:32:16'
- author:
    name: carima
    picture: 110178
  body: "Greetings!\r\n\r\nAlthough not a coffee drinker (sorry) Spot on Delaware
    & Chippawa would be the best bet for non-chain coffee (closest to the hotel)...
    another sure bet would be Blue Mountain Coffee on Elmwood Avenue at Utica (they
    roast their own) and a little North on Elmwood is Dolci (elmwood and Breckenridge).\r\n\r\nGood
    hunting!\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-07 16:21:42'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: Eben, my food research is stopped. I m now limited to the Richard list. No
    sushi in Buffalo...
  created: '2008-07-07 17:26:23'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "sushi's on the list, Ale. it's jut not sit-down sushi. i've heard it's actually
    very good sushi too, you just have to take it with you.\r\n\r\ni've compiled <a
    href=\"http://www.pilcrowtype.com/blog/archives/19\">my own list</a> to supplement
    the official food guide.\r\n\r\nas for coffee, i think a lot of the locals enjoy
    Tim Horton's, but i've not tried it. it may be more american (Canadian) than you
    like..."
  created: '2008-07-07 17:37:34'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "No sushi bar in Buffalo?\r\n\r\nOIC Kuni\u2019s"
  created: '2008-07-07 17:43:14'
- author:
    name: carima
    picture: 110178
  body: "Lots of sushi in Buffalo... Wegmans (local mega grocery) on Amherst street
    even has a sushi chef on staff...\r\n\r\nLocations ranked in proximity to the
    hotel. 3 are within 4 blocks of each other in the elmwood village.\r\n\r\nKunis
    - 226 Lexington Ave. Buffalo\r\nWasabi's - Elmwood Avenue (same block as Dolci)
    - 752 Elmwood avenue, Buffalo\r\nLexington Co-op - elmwood avenue, one block north
    from Dolci\r\nPangaea Sushi & Sake Restaurant\_- 1260 Hertel Ave, Buffalo \r\nSushi
    Nagasaki - 2305 Elmwood Ave, Kenmore"
  created: '2008-07-07 18:02:19'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: "hahaha, sorry, I said \"no sushi in Buffalo\", I should say \"the research
    on the webwas not so good when I was looking for a really good sushi place to
    die eating there\" lol\r\n\r\nCarima, I promise to try them!\r\n\r\nAnyway, seems
    like greek food is excelent there. Thats enough to be happy."
  created: '2008-07-07 18:40:05'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks Carima!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-07 18:44:50'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>I was looking for a really good sushi place to die eating there</cite>\r\n\r\nNo
    Fugu Surprise from the street vendors Ale."
  created: '2008-07-07 19:23:58'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "Tim Hortons? Isn't that like going to Dunkin Donuts?\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-07 19:35:46'
- author:
    name: Chiba Chiba
    picture: 112595
  body: "What about local breweries?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-07 19:58:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Paul: <em>as for coffee, i think a lot of the locals enjoy Tim Horton\u2019s,
    but i\u2019ve not tried it. it may be more american (Canadian) than you like...</em>\r\n\r\nGenerally
    speaking, I don't drink drip or percolator coffee. Brew methods that kill most
    of the flavours in coffee just seem wrong to me. Coffee is like wine: the beans
    possess an extraordinary range and complexity of flavours. Good roasting and extraction
    will bring out the flavours, but most of the world's coffee is effectively destroyed
    by the people who make it. Imagine if 95% of the world's grape harvest were lumped
    together in large batches to produce largely indistinguishable cheap table wines.\r\n\r\nPeople
    often assume, since I'm always keen to locate the best cafe in any destination,
    that I must drink a lot of coffee. I don't. Typically, I have one small espresso
    in the morning and another in the afternoon. I'm not downing gallons of the stuff
    to stay awake or excite my neurons. I want a fantastic taste experience, and I
    want to know where the beans have come from, who roasted them, and I want the
    drink made by someone who understands and cares about quality."
  created: '2008-07-07 20:59:21'
- author:
    name: Chiba Chiba
    picture: 112595
  body: If you want to try brasilian coffee, I can easily bring you some.
  created: '2008-07-07 21:20:23'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "<em>\u201CTim Hortons? Isn\u2019t that like going to Dunkin Donuts?\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nIf
    Dunkin Donuts dispenses a bitter, overheated, industrially caffeinated liquid
    and markets it as coffee \u2026 then you\u2019re bang on. My theory is that Tim
    Horton\u2019s customers insist on ordering a <a href=\"http://www.cbc.ca/arts/story/2004/06/30/doubledouble040630.html\">double-double</a>
    (double cream, double sugar) in order to consume a beverage that\u2019s just marginally
    palatable."
  created: '2008-07-07 21:34:45'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "<em>What about local breweries?</em>\r\n\r\nFlying Bison\r\nhttp://www.flyingbisonbrewing.com/\r\n\r\nPearl
    St Brew Pub\r\nhttp://www.pubcrawler.com/Template/ReviewWC.cfm/flat/BrewerID=101489\r\n\r\nVillage
    Beer Merchant\r\nhttp://www.yelp.com/biz/village-beer-merchant-buffalo\r\n\r\nBuffalo
    Brew Pub\r\nhttp://www.buffalobrewpub.com/\r\n\r\ncome back in August for\r\nhttp://www.buffalobrewfest.com/\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-07 22:24:51'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>My theory is that Tim Horton\u2019s customers insist on ordering a double-double
    (double cream, double sugar) in order to consume a beverage that\u2019s just marginally
    palatable.</em>\r\n\r\nhehe. shows how much i know about coffee!"
  created: '2008-07-07 22:31:01'
- author:
    name: Chiba Chiba
    picture: 112595
  body: Thank you very much Richard! :)
  created: '2008-07-07 22:39:50'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">What about local breweries?\r\n\r\nMake mine a Venti!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-07 22:40:56'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "2 best bets for Coffee barista style near the hotel:\r\n\r\nSpot Coffee on
    Delaware is good\r\nhttp://spotcoffee.com/city.html#\r\n\r\na block plus up Main
    st from the conference hotel is Chow Chocolat which does a great latte\r\nhttp://outside.in/places/chow-chocolat-2-buffalo\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-07 22:58:56'
- author:
    name: emenninga
  body: "I'm with you John -- we used to have a coffee roaster in Seattle called Torrefazione
    that had a few storefronts. It was very good, but bought out by Charbucks and
    later shut down (rumor was they wanted Torrefazione's access to grocery store
    shelves).\r\nOne of their stores was a half block from our Fremont offices and
    the after-lunch shot of espresso was very good & is now very missed. Even in Seattle
    -- supposedly a US coffee haven -- the Peet's and Charbucks don't know how to
    pour a shot of espresso. They'll have only paper cups or full size mugs. Not a
    good solution. With the best espresso shots you get interesting floral notes similar
    to good quality dark chocolate."
  created: '2008-07-07 23:26:39'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "John - The next time you are in San Francisco, you must try Blue Bottle (they
    use the Japanese siphon method).\r\n\r\nhttp://tinyurl.com/6623a7\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-08 00:14:34'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Those of us who can barely think straight before noon will still be able to
    just chug whatever the hotel serves up at the breakfast bar, right?
  created: '2008-07-08 00:22:56'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I am in John's camp as well. I called around and the standard that John is
    hoping for probably doesn't exist in Buffalo. Which is no shame on Buffalo because
    it's rare as heck! Depending on my caffeine need I may just go with tea or like
    James down the drip & think of TypeCon.\r\n\r\nZara, have you tried the siphon
    brew?\r\n\r\nFredrico, I don't know if we can get it brewed but we could try.
    \r\n\r\nIced Coffee made in the way the NYT talked about it a while ago might
    be the very best thing of all. \r\n\r\nI am going to be so hot!!! It's below 60
    here and I am roasting!"
  created: '2008-07-08 02:19:58'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: You can always bring your own rig and make it in your room. I don't drink
    coffee anymore, but I love my Assam tea and would rather not have to rely on being
    able to pay someone to make a decent cup.
  created: '2008-07-08 02:48:56'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I am going to be so hot!!! It\u2019s below 60 here and I am roasting!</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    hope those temperatures hold out: I fly to Vancouver for a Canada/Alaska cruise
    right after I get back from Typecon."
  created: '2008-07-08 02:53:03'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">You can always bring your own rig and make it in your room.\r\n\r\nDo I
    smell a TypeCon battle brewing? "
  created: '2008-07-08 03:40:49'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "Just wanted to say for the record that I'm jealous of all of your going to
    Typecon...I just got back from 6 months abroad...so I'm am beyond poor, hopefully
    next year...next year. I'll have to make sure to take notes on coffee places though
    =)\r\ncourtney"
  created: '2008-07-08 13:16:52'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Hey, Mark -- I usually just get by with whatever teabags are around during
    conferences and just chalk it up to travel. But this year, I'm driving to TypeCon,
    so now you've got me seriously thinking about bringing my teapot and one of my
    favorite Assams or Ceylons.\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2008-07-08 14:25:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hey Kent, for those of us who can't get there this year, will there be any
    recording of presentations?\r\n\r\nCoffee is for addicts. Now green tea, that
    is the nectar of the gods..."
  created: '2008-07-08 14:43:18'
- author:
    name: dr_wisz
    picture: 115366
  body: "Coffee in Buffalo?\r\n\r\nBetty's on Virginal Street(http://www.bettysbuffalo.com)
    serves a great Cuban-style coffee.  Although I am not coffee-expert I do like
    in black and strong! \r\n\r\nMost local folks can get by with the Spot coffee
    within walking from the Hotel-- it is better than Starbucks (which is across the
    street).\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-08 14:52:29'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Bill --\r\n\r\nI'm bummed that you (and Chris and Thomas) won't be joining
    us this year. Won't be the same without you.\r\n\r\nI don't believe that there
    will be any official, concerted effort at recording sessions. Unfortunately, we
    just don't have the volunteer resources. More critically, there is no structure
    or capability yet to manage and publish any recordings.\r\n\r\nThere may be some
    individual initiatives to record certain sessions, coordinated through the sound
    booth. That's been done before. Tamye or Stephen might have a better idea. I think
    Eben might have volunteered to do something, but I don't know if anything came
    of it. Eben?\r\n\r\nI do know that there will be an official, concerted effort
    at blogging this year, through the new and improved TypeCon site. I believe that
    Si is going to be spearheading that and is recruiting a team of bloggers.\r\n\r\n--
    K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-08 18:38:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Well, my suggestion in the past has been to record the sound. Then could
    the slides be put with sound? I don't know how complicated that is, but people
    already have slides, and anything with a mike shouldn't be hard to record. It's
    probably way more trouble than I think, but maybe not. \r\n\r\nIf the speaker
    would say 'change slide' or 'slide 2' and such, then posting the audio file and
    slides, the viewer could coordinate it him or herself, with no additional labor
    needed beyond the posting the audio file and slides. "
  created: '2008-07-08 21:27:56'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Coffee, heck!!\r\n\r\nWhat about good local beer in Buffalo? I'm looking,
    as John Hudson is in coffee, for that \"fantastic taste experience.\" Not to get
    zonked.\r\n\r\n& while we are at it, does Buffalo have any kind of free jazz scene?
    Or any other good jazz scene?\r\n\r\nsee you all soon.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2008-07-08 22:30:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Now green tea, that is the nectar of the gods...</em>\r\n\r\nI wish I
    liked tea more. I have friends who are serious tea drinkers, and I'm impressed
    when they guide me through the taste development of some complex and carefully
    brewed tea. But I find even the best teas I have tried have a thin quality that
    I really don't care for much. While it is fascinating how the taste will develop
    over quarter of an hour, so that each cup is quite different, I don't actually
    <em>like</em> the taste. My favourite methods of making coffee are the ones that
    significantly thicken the density of the liquid, which may be another indication
    of why I'm not a tea drinker: tea is too much like flavoured water."
  created: '2008-07-08 22:48:50'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "<em>What about good local beer in Buffalo?</em>\r\nsee earlier post in this
    thread\r\n\r\n<em>Or any other good jazz scene?</em>\r\nDepends on when.\r\nNot
    sure how current the website is, but this place is legendary\r\nhttp://www.coloredmusiciansclub.org/\r\nor
    if you want to skip out of TypeCon on Sunday (not suggesting that)\r\nhttp://albrightknox.org/Jazz/jazz2008.html\r\nor
    for Django style gypsy jazz a free show before Pecha Kucha on Tuesday\r\nhttp://www.babikjazz.com/calendar.html\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-09 00:14:41'
- author:
    name: gerry_leonidas
    picture: 128150
  body: 'OK, Buffalites (?), a question: can we make it to Elmwood Village / Bidwell
    Park for Babik and then to Hallwalls Cinema easily? If it can be done, I''m up
    for sharing cabs etc. (I found on G maps Hallwalls, but the first location escaped
    me) '
  created: '2008-07-09 00:34:40'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Hi there,\r\n\r\nMy name is Pam and I am Mark's sig oth. I hope you don't
    mind -- I saw the thread topic and grabbed the laptop because I wanted to jump
    in and recommend Caffe Aroma at 957 Elmwood. It's a small non-chain coffee joint
    with an independent bookstore next door called Talking Leaves. When I interviewed
    for my new job at the Albright-Knox I was taken there for breakfast. I noted that
    several members of the museum staff were stopping in on their way to work. The
    ambiance was great and I made a note to visit again when I could grab a cup of
    tea and browse the bookstore.\r\n\r\nI look forward to meeting all of you next
    week!\r\n\r\nPam"
  created: '2008-07-09 00:49:42'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "Yes Gerry, it is a 10 minute drive. As a Buffalonian, I live near Bidwell
    Parkway (right near FL Wright Heath House on FLW map http://www.typecon.com/hotel.php
    ) Cafe Aroma looks out onto where the concerts are at Bidwell Pkwy.\r\n\r\nI may
    be going to the RIT tour  http://typophile.com/node/46808 but should be back in
    time. You can catch a ride with me."
  created: '2008-07-09 01:10:09'
- author:
    name: gerry_leonidas
    picture: 128150
  body: "Of course -- I got confused. Clearly Buffalite is what Buffalonians are made
    out of. \r\n\r\nNext week sounds better by the hour. Thanks!"
  created: '2008-07-09 01:26:10'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "It just occurred to me that I didn\u2019t check on the parking situation
    at the hotel: do we need to reserve a space in the garage ahead of time?"
  created: '2008-07-09 01:28:28'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: "James, there should be no issue getting a space, and the ramp is right across
    the street from the hotel.\r\n\r\nhttp://buffalo.hyatt.com/hyatt/hotels/services/parking/index.jsp\r\n\r\nPull
    up right in front of the Hyatt, go inside, check in and tell them you want the
    parking ramp in/out deal (unless you want to park it the whole time and not use
    it at all). It's $14 a day for in-and-out privileges, and the hotel will give
    you the passes and charge it directly to your room bill. Once you get your pass,
    leave your bags with the bellman while you zoom across the street and park.\r\n\r\nThere
    are also outdoor lots close to the hotel for those who just want to park for the
    day or a few hours.\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-09 01:44:07'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Pam, looking forward to meeting you too!\r\n\r\nBill, as far as I know there
    is no concerted effort at recording. It would be easy to do on some level and
    yet hard to do really well. I will not have time to look into it but dedicated
    1GB+ drive and a laptop might be enough ( depending on compression ) to make it
    happen. A set and forget kind of model... The other side though is you would have
    to get speakers to say Okay to it and make clear how the recording would be used
    etc. Bill, my suggestion is if you want it to happen be the person that does it.
    The recording I have of the Typecrit from last year was made by a participant
    and then offered afterwards. I do feel lucky to have it though! Anybody with a
    laptop, sound recording software ( wiretap on the mac might be a good choice)
    \ and the ability to burn off archives each night could make this happen. \r\n\r\nI
    like both the green tea (and venerate it) AND the coffee. And the beer. And the
    Sushi. And the Melons... A (no longer) secret hope of mine is that I may get to
    taste a real cantaloupe melon when I am at Reading on while traveling. What we
    call cantaloupe in the USA is not the same thing at all. I especially would like
    a <a href=\"http://rubbahslippahsinitaly.blogspot.com/2006/08/charentais-melon-soup.html\">Charentais!</a>\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-09 08:53:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I like coffee too--just tweaking the addicts :) I am mainly a tea drinker,
    though. \r\n\r\n>Bill, my suggestion is if you want it to happen be the person
    that does it. \r\n\r\nAs I mentioned above, I won't be able to make it to TypeCon
    this year. Maybe next year..."
  created: '2008-07-09 12:32:34'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Thanks, Rich. I overlooked that bit about the brews amidst all the chat about
    the Evil Bean. I'll check out the brews, one at breakfast, one later on.\r\n\r\n&
    thanks for the jazz notes, too. I'm sorry to miss both the gypsy jazz and the
    Pecha Kucha. & I'll miss the Sunday show, too, for I must leave Saturday evening.
    It is SO beautiful here in Minnesota this time of year that I have to have at
    least one weekend day in the garden and the lake. I'm sure a Buffalonian can understand
    that.\r\n\r\npowsers"
  created: '2008-07-09 17:48:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I\u2019m bummed that you (and Chris and Thomas) won\u2019t be joining us
    this year. \"\r\n\r\nNot half as bummed as I am about it, Kent!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-10 00:09:05'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Can I get some Buffalite souvenirs for the kids? '
  created: '2008-07-10 00:40:26'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "William Berkson...\r\n\"Coffee is for addicts.\" \r\n\r\n\r\nYou say that
    as if it's a bad thing.\r\n\r\nJason C"
  created: '2008-07-10 01:57:22'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "And did Si say a brewing competition? If I knew that was happening, I'd be
    packing my press now!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-10 01:58:24'
- author:
    name: J.R.
    picture: 115373
  body: "Hi all -- this will be my first TypeCon -- but -- I've been in Buffalo 8
    years now... thought I'd throw in my 2 cents. Sorry for the blown out post --
    I'm procrastinating on getting some work done. ;)\r\n\r\n<li><strong>Coffee</strong>
    -- Spot, downtown (Delaware and Chippewa) is your best bet. There's a great little
    hole-in-the-wall (and I mean that in the kindest way) coffee shop on the north/west
    side of Allen St. and Elmwood Ave.</li>\r\n\r\n<li><strong>Sushi</strong> -- definitely
    Kuni's To-Go... Pangea is a second runner up but a bit of a trek from the hotel.</li>\r\n\r\n<li><strong>Diner</strong>
    -- hit up the Town Restaurant (Elmwood and Allen St.) for the classic diner experience
    -- or Betty's on Virginia (2 blks west of Elmwood) for something a bit more modern
    and artsy. Both are great.</li>\r\n\r\n<li><strong>Beer</strong> -- my vote is
    on Flying Bison. It is a little bit out of the way... but worth it. Saturday afternoon
    is unofficial customer appreciation day at the brewery -- translation -- stop
    in, hang out for an hour, talk to the brewers, sample all the beers on tap and
    take a growler to go. Second runner of course is Pearl Street -- more of a restaurant/brew-pub...
    as opposed to FB's straight up brewery. Village Beer Merchant has a great selection
    (a bit pricey) of bottled brews and something like 8 or so regional beers on tap
    -- again fill a growler. They also have deli-style food.</li>\r\n\r\n<li><strong>Best
    Bar/Food/Music Strip</strong> -- Allen Street (west or east of Elmwood Ave)...
    plenty to choose from... pubs, dives, live music (Nietszche's or Allen St. Hardware),
    etc. Worth the handful of blocks hike north of the hotel. Chippewa is good too
    -- but a bit young-n-rowdy-club for my tastes.</li>\r\n\r\n<li><strong>Musical
    Treat</strong> -- Mickey Hart (drummer of the Grateful Dead) is playing for free
    downtown on Thursday - part of the Thursday At The Square series. Outdoor concert
    with beer and food tents. I wouldn't miss that -- but I'm a fan.</li>\r\n\r\n<li><strong>Shameless
    Self Promotion</strong> -- If you're here early (like this Friday) we're having
    an opening reception for <strong>[[http://www.TypeIsArt.com|TypeIsArt.com]]</strong>
    at <strong>[[http://www.224Allen.com|SP@CE224]]</strong> (224 Allen Street) from
    7-10PM. The show will be up thru the 19th so stop by any evening 6-9PM. There
    may be a closing reception on the 19th and there may be a keg of Flying Bison
    brew there... but only time will tell."
  created: '2008-07-10 03:45:10'
- author:
    name: dsb
    picture: 111042
  body: "the \"hole in the wall\" near the corner of allen and elmwood ( i don't know
    the name, but it has a small red and black awning on it)\r\ndoes have really good
    espresso, and the other place i go when in buffalo is the aforementioned Aroma
    Cafe at elmwood and bidwell.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-10 05:15:41'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.yelp.com/search?find_desc=&rpp=10&find_loc=Buffalo%2C+Ny&cflt=coffee\">More
    Coffee and tea in Buffalo info</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-10 14:49:13'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Thanks for all the excellent info!
  created: '2008-07-11 00:26:43'
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: "I'm not a fan of the Town -- I just don't understand the appeal, and the
    food's mediocre at best. If you do go there, don't get anything with bacon, unless
    you like translucent strips of fat with just a little bit of meat attached to
    it. They have the WORST bacon!\r\n\r\nThere's been some mention of the Elmwood
    Village, and there are several other good restaurants in that area. Saigon Cafe
    for Vietnamese, India Gate for Indian (just a few doors down towards Forest Ave,
    which marks the border of the Elmwood village area), and Pano's which is kind
    of a local landmark which was originally a tiny diner and is now in a bigger building,
    and more upscale.\r\n\r\nIf you go north on elmwood past Forest a few blocks,
    you'll be at the Albright Knox Art Gallery, which is not to be missed (free admission
    on Fridays', too). Go up Elmwood maybe a half mile, take a right on Hertel, and
    you'll find all sorts of restaurants, but  mainly lots of good italian restaurants
    (of varying price levels -- Romeo and Juliet's is good and not too fancy or pricey,
    and you can sit outside). \r\n\r\nYes, I am made of Buffalite.\r\n\r\nJonathan\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-11 03:55:19'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "In conjunction with TypeCon, Erik Spiekermann is giving a public talk on
    Friday night at 8:00 at the Albright-Knox. \r\n\r\nWe'll have a couple buses heading
    up there to ferry people. I don't yet know the time of the first bus, but we're
    going to be encouraging folks to head up early and catch dinner in the Elmwood
    area before the talk. So Jonathan's suggestions are right on target.\r\n\r\n--
    K.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-11 13:29:42'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "><em>They have the WORST bacon!</em>\r\n\r\nFailing that is a bit of an achievement
    in itself\r\n\r\n\u0192\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-11 14:13:20'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "Hertle is great for restaurants but TypeCon timing coincides with the Italian
    Festival\r\nhttp://www.buffaloitalianfestival.com/\r\nIt's a bit crazy, if you
    like crowds and want some great Italian food and people watching, it is a fun
    side event.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-11 21:27:02'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "edit\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-11 21:27:42'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "So we have established that Buffalo has the worst bacon, presumably of any
    location anywhere. Where in Buffalo would you go to get Buffalo\u2019s worst bacon?"
  created: '2008-07-11 22:07:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mark, Perhaps you would go to Sir Francis to find the worst Bacon? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-11 22:51:50'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Buffalo, the New Atlantis of Bad Bacon. That\u2019s pretty bad."
  created: '2008-07-12 00:13:25'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: I think Jonathan was referring to the Towne restaurant, not the "town" of
    Buffalo as bad bacon central. It is the late night Greek place in Allentown
  created: '2008-07-12 03:26:39'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "Alejandro, your sushi wish is granted with a new place downtown\r\nhttp://www.buffalonews.com/185/story/389687.html\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-12 03:29:56'
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: "Thanks for clearing that up, Rich -- my missing \"e\" evidently caused a
    lot of bacon confusion. Indeed, I was referring to the Towne restaurant. To recap:\r\n\r\nThe
    Towne Restaurant: don't order anything with bacon\r\n\r\nThe rest of the city
    of Buffalo: order whatever you want, including bacon, from any of our fine, fine
    restaurants.\r\n\r\nThe beauty of Buffalo, and its close proximity to Canada,
    is that you can readily get regular bacon (aka \"bacon\") _and_ Canadian bacon
    (aka \"back bacon\"). It's truly a bacon-lover's paradise, except, once again,
    as long as you don't get it at the Towne."
  created: '2008-07-12 05:16:51'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Whew. Buffalo is bacon safe. That\u2019s good news."
  created: '2008-07-12 12:34:05'
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: It's not just bacon safe. It's bacontacular.
  created: '2008-07-12 15:54:09'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>It\u2019s bacontacular.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd I thought I couldn't get any
    more excited about this trip!"
  created: '2008-07-13 03:59:52'
date: '2008-07-07 04:02:02'
node_type: forum
title: Coffee in Buffalo

---
