---
author:
  name: Artboy34
  picture: 115388
body: "I'm sure this has happened to others, but here's the back story: This was \"concepted\"
  by some co-workers on a day that I was attending a software seminar, and \"executed\"
  by a pre-college intern while I was away on a 25th anniversary trip with my wife.\r\n\r\nSadly,
  it is our \"new\" corporate logo.\r\n\r\nPlease respond truthfully, since I might
  need the \"ammo\" to make someone see the light.\r\n\r\nThanks in advance!"
comments:
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Image gives me an error. Be sure that the JPG is an RGB JPG.
  created: '2008-07-09 16:46:11'
- author:
    name: cmcd
  body: "Well I'm sure you'll get more than enough ammo here, because for starters,
    design execution aside, this \"logo\" says nothing to me about marketing. And
    the only reason it is saying 'sustainable' is because it is throwing every cliche
    in the book out there (not that cliches are necessarily bad, after all they are
    immediately understood cultural elements, that, if used correctly and cleverly,
    can be wonderful springboards of communication). If I were to look at the logo,
    words aside, I would not know what the company does.\r\n\r\nSecondly, it looks
    very amatuerish. The weights of the type, the \"lettered\" 'H' 'M' 'A', the number
    of similar yet different elements, it's all too much. WAY too much. \r\n\r\nThat
    said, if it is something they are attached to, I could see similar elements and
    \"inspiration\" being used to create a more evolved, more refined evolution of
    this mark.\r\n\r\nLastly, this mark would not inspire confidence in me to do business
    with this company. Especially to handle my marketing when it appears they cannot
    even market themselves properly."
  created: '2008-07-09 16:50:53'
- author:
    name: Artboy34
    picture: 115388
  body: "Not sure how to upload a corrected file, but might need to start a new thread.\r\n\r\nHere's
    the RGB version:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Logo_6704.jpg]"
  created: '2008-07-09 17:42:05'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: I second cmcd in saying this looks very amateurish. Sorry, but you're the
    Art Director / Creative Director of the firm and they come up with this identity
    while you're away attending a seminar?! It doesn't look like they respect you
    too much...
  created: '2008-07-09 19:06:43'
- author:
    name: vintagesignman
    picture: 115367
  body: Did you say this is a sustainable fishing company? I love the reeds and the
    water flows ever so softly. WOW I totally agree with cmcd, WAY too much! There
    is nothing memorable, nothing marketable,nothing. I want to forget it, wipe it
    from my memory. k.i.s.s.
  created: '2008-07-09 19:07:05'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "It's not really a logo in the sense that it's not a cohesive concept. It's
    just random type with random decorations.\r\n\r\nAlso, what does 'sustainable
    marketing' mean?"
  created: '2008-07-09 19:36:37'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "If you sold seaweed this might be the start of something - but even then
    it would need a serious re-work. For the purpose of marketing, in a word: No.
    \r\n\r\nIf they maintain that this has to be the logo, start looking for a new
    job, because they will not be able to bring in new business with this logo - barring
    corruption of course.  \r\n\r\nUnfortunately Dan's comment \"</cite>It doesn\u2019t
    look like they respect you too much...<cite>\" seems all too accurate! Another
    reason to start looking. And if that's your role there you shouldn't need the
    \"ammo\"."
  created: '2008-07-09 19:41:03'
- author:
    name: EileenB
  body: "If you shrank this on to a business card, the tagline would be nothing but
    a choppy white blur. Furthermore, the M in Miller becomes two oddly spaced Ls
    because the connecting strokes are too thin. If you convert it to black and white,
    you'll lose most of the first two words and I suspect the whole logo would look
    like it's drowning.\r\n\r\nWorst of all, it's just garish. Too busy, too many
    colors, too many fonts that don't match, too much scale between the letters, too
    many bad curves. Too much! \r\n\r\nI work with environmental organizations all
    the time. It's a market full of extremists. I know instantly from a company identity
    if they're true professionals or just a bunch of idealists looking to earn enough
    money to buy pot and gas for their next week-long music festival. This logo says
    you're not even gonna make it to the festival across town, even stone-cold sober.\r\n\r\nPlease
    work hard to convince them to change this. There are far too many unprofessional
    hacks who want to be professional environmentalists to risk your company on a
    amateur logo. With a lame identity package, you'll be dismissed MUCH faster than
    in any other industry. \r\n\r\nEileen"
  created: '2008-07-09 19:56:32'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "I think you might want to capitalize on what Eileen said in her first paragraph:\r\n\r\n<cite>If
    you shrank this on to a business card, the tagline would be nothing but a choppy
    white blur. Furthermore, the M in Miller becomes two oddly spaced Ls because the
    connecting strokes are too thin. If you convert it to black and white, you\u2019ll
    lose most of the first two words and I suspect the whole logo would look like
    it\u2019s drowning.\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nThis seems to be a clear argument against
    it which the the people who approved it could accept, while saving face. If you
    highlighted all the poor design ideas, you might put them on the defensive.\r\n\r\nAs
    I see it, the logo is unusable in most instances. Obviously it doesn't work at
    all in black and white, and would be difficult in grayscale too. Beyond that,
    if you sized it to use on business cards, stationery, envelopes, nearly any handheld
    sized printing application, the tag line would be too small to notice or read.\r\nBut
    when you blow the logo up to a sensible size to read the tagline, the \"H\" M\"
    and \"A\" become so large as to be distracting, and they separate from the rest
    of the name.\r\n\r\n\r\nI'd go with that argument rather than pointing out the
    poor overall design, it'll be easier to get everyone to see your point and agree
    with you.\r\n\r\nJason C"
  created: '2008-07-09 20:04:51'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Jason has a very good point. There are so many mechanical issues with this
    that you can easily focus on that without even having to begin talking about the
    aesthetic issues.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-09 20:14:51'
- author:
    name: Artboy34
    picture: 115388
  body: "Thank you all for your comments. Sometimes it has to be enough that you know
    you're not losing your mind.\r\n\r\nPerhaps I'll wake up and this will all have
    been a cruel dream...\r\n\r\nMartin Bentley Krebs\r\nDesignosaur since 1980"
  created: '2008-07-09 20:56:26'
- author:
    name: jayyy
    picture: 109661
  body: "Did anyone say it is...ugly?\r\n\r\nMechanicals and practicalities aside.
    It is just damn ugly!"
  created: '2008-07-10 00:51:43'
- author:
    name: Artboy34
    picture: 115388
  body: "THANK YOU, JAYYY! That's been the 300-pound gorilla in the room! It is horribly,
    dreadfully, incredibly BUTT UGLY!!!\r\n\r\nMy day has been made."
  created: '2008-07-10 02:29:25'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "I would like to emphasize again that I can't really imagine this same logo
    in pure black/white version. Some elements would have to go...\r\n___________\r\n<em>Robert
    Koritnik</em>"
  created: '2008-07-10 15:44:53'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "I would like to emphasize again that I can't really imagine this same logo
    in pure black/white version. Some elements would have to go...\r\n___________\r\n<em>Robert
    Koritnik</em>"
  created: '2008-07-10 15:45:05'
- author:
    name: nvhladek
    picture: 112094
  body: "Sometimes when I joke with friends, if we're talking about something that
    we both think is ridiculous, I say, \"If I had to represent this visually, it
    would be a picture of a giant ass.\"\r\n\r\nSince it's already in visual form,
    I'll represent it verbally: it's a giant ass.\r\n\r\nWhile on the one hand it
    speaks of a lack of respect for you as a professional, it also speaks of the lack
    of understanding and respect these folks have for the visual arts.  Would anyone
    in your company think about making the same types of decisions for the company's
    attorney?  Absurd.\r\n\r\n--\r\nNick Hladek"
  created: '2008-07-10 16:02:07'
- author:
    name: rax
    picture: 112449
  body: "The tagline is like the cherry on top the ugly type/wavy/fugly colors mashup.\r\nI
    hope that Artboy as Art Director / Creative Director you solve this as soon as
    possible.\r\n\r\n--\r\n<cite>There must be some way out of here...</cite>"
  created: '2008-07-10 18:30:29'
- author:
    name: flowerchild
    picture: 115402
  body: "Oh, honey...\r\nI usually like to be positive and uplifting, or at least
    non-committal and vague is something is not up to par, but this is just awful!
    On SOOOO many levels! So many thoughts come to mind - poorly crafted - amateurish
    - muddy - unprofessional - unreadable - no ability to reproduce - not distinct
    - not memorable - tells no story - does not communicate, well, anything positive
    at least...\r\n\r\nIt's the ANTI-logo!\r\n\r\nWhy have a logo if it does not communicate
    positively for your company.... whether it's what you do, your style, or at the
    very least that you are professionals at whatever you do.  Just use a default
    typeface in WORD, make it a \"12 font\"  and you are good to go. Don't waste time
    and say you concepted - for Pete's sake - it will make you a laughing stock! \r\n\r\nArtboy
    - you are so much better than this... the walls are speaking and they're saying
    \"Get Out!\"... but you know that already!\r\nGodspeed!\r\n\r\nAA\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-10 19:19:00'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: 'I second flowerchild''s sentiment: Get out! This shows an enormous level
    of disrespect towards you to rebrand the company while you''re out of town.'
  created: '2008-07-12 19:01:58'
- author:
    name: vigorgraphics
    picture: 110655
  body: "Sweet Jesus.\r\n\r\nSweet Jesus.\r\n\r\nSweet Jesus.\r\n\r\nCough.\r\n\r\n::sighs::\r\n\r\nJoseph
    Szala\r\nVigor - an interactive branding strategy firm\r\nwww.vigorbranding.com\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-22 20:27:58'
- author:
    name: David Ford
    picture: 115355
  body: What happened Martin? Did you tell them how it is? Do tell, i can't stand
    the suspense!
  created: '2008-07-22 20:56:04'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "indeed!\r\n\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com/\">Graphic Design</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-23 01:02:07'
- author:
    name: Artboy34
    picture: 115388
  body: "Yeah, about that...\r\n\r\nFor some inexplicable reason, the logo that was
    so \"hot\" to be produced has yet to have any files sent out for actual production,
    although there is a newly created Flash animation (think \"seaweed slapping farmers
    and hills\" to get a picture) that was done while I was vacationing with my family
    for three days last week (I'm seeing a pattern here...).\r\n\r\nI've been told
    that it's a bigger deal to me than it is to the owner. Good lord, it is <strong>ugly</strong>!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nMartin
    Bentley Krebs\r\nDesignosaur since 1980"
  created: '2008-07-29 01:39:15'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "ahhh well, back to saving lives I guess.\r\n\r\nheheh.\r\n\r\n;)\r\n\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com/\">Graphic Design</a>\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-29 03:07:49'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "This honestly looks like someone just discovered the pen tool. \r\n\r\nLooking
    at the logo, I have no idea what your company does. The only thing I would know
    about your company (other than the name) is that it's trying to piggyback on the
    \"being green\" fad. The colors are terrible and please tell me why the two background
    swashes are transparent? (seen in the section where they overlap.)\r\n\r\nTalk
    about a 300 pound gorilla . . . this has to be the ugliest most unmanageable rectangular
    block of a logo I have seen in a long while. It doesn't even deserve to be nitpicked
    or modified in any way. It simply needs to be tossed. "
  created: '2008-07-30 17:07:51'
- author:
    name: Fell
    picture: 115575
  body: 'Some simple ammo: legibility and readability. It''s hard to read, it''s difficult
    to remember: too much going on. No concise focus or effort to communicate something
    in-line with your marketing.'
  created: '2008-08-05 20:52:24'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "I'm dying to know what happened! Please give us an update! Did they change
    it? Did you get another job. Either would be a great ending to this story! :D\r\n\r\ncourtney"
  created: '2008-08-06 10:55:10'
- author:
    name: nvhladek
    picture: 112094
  body: "Yes! Yes! Do tell!\r\n\r\n--\r\nNick Hladek"
  created: '2008-08-07 01:16:48'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Ugly that it is... is it possible that they're just having fun with you?
    This seems like a huge elaborate prank. \r\n\r\nStill, I know the Lancaster area
    and this logo is in the realm of possibilities. "
  created: '2008-08-25 05:14:26'
- author:
    name: Artboy34
    picture: 115388
  body: "It turns out that the ultimate \"evil\" behind this egregious example of
    design behaving badly was purely impulsive indecision \u2013 someone wanting something
    so quickly (a website using it) and so badly (new business development as a result)
    that sane reasoning and sound judgment were both sent packing.\r\n\r\nNothing,
    repeat NOTHING has been produced (thank God!) to this point, and we're (I say
    \"we\" as if I'm somehow actually involved in the process \u2013 it still hasn't
    been handed over to me for fixing as yet) going round and round with faint variations
    of it, asking everyone under the sun if they like it with blue swooshes and any
    of sixteen more typefaces from which to choose.\r\n\r\nI'm hoping to have the
    opportunity to unceremoniously burn all copies, discs, and printouts of it in
    a huge bonfire on the front lawn of our business complex, dancing shirtless and
    chanting barely intelligible names of typefaces that should join the inferno (\"Souvenir!\"
    \"Brush Script!\" \"The entire Korinna family!\"). Hope springs eternal.\r\n\r\nIf
    something redeeming comes out of it, I'll share it with all of you for truly valued
    critique and worthily appreciated commentary...\r\n\r\nMartin Bentley Krebs\r\nDesignosaur
    since 1980"
  created: '2008-08-29 02:46:34'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "I truly cannot believe that people are even deeming this worthy of variations.
    This is a sad day for graphics indeed. If they keep it, or any iteration thereof,
    I say you pack your things and go.\r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2008-08-29 05:07:59'
- author:
    name: Kirs10
  body: Why are you waiting for them to ask you to fix it? Since they haven't moved
    on printing that abomination yet, show them your ideas. Hopefully seeing a well
    crafted logo will lift the blinders from their eyes. And if they are smart they
    will not only thank you for showing them the error of their ways, but give you
    a big raise as well.
  created: '2008-08-29 15:27:10'
- author:
    name: Artboy34
    picture: 115388
  body: "Well, I am happy to report that indecision has led to a situation in which
    a new identity needs to be rolled out prior to a trip overseas to meet with new
    clients. I took the liberty (and the timely advice of some contributors here)
    to make changes and improvements to the most recent round of logos and created
    a workable logo and color palette. It's not what would have developed through
    a more \"normal\" course of action, but I think the end result (considering the
    constraints, and we've all had to deal with those!) is a vast improvement over
    what was going to be the \"final\" version I showed earlier.\r\n\r\nI'd greatly
    appreciate your feedback, and thanks for all of your support! \r\n\r\nMartin Bentley
    Krebs\r\nDesignosaur since 1980\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Logo091808_5252.jpg]"
  created: '2008-10-04 22:29:47'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "Ok. It does look better than the original, but it looks like a Web site header
    logo. Especially the first one. Can you present a simple BW version of these two?\r\n___________\r\n<em>Robert
    Koritnik</em>"
  created: '2008-10-08 08:48:40'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "Thank you! Much better. I mean, yea looks a little web-ish, but that's an
    easy fix if it's even that important. I prefer the second one, but \"Associates\"
    sort of gets lost in the background colors. Also, the \"Miller\" looks a little
    squished. The counters in the first and last words are very open, and then Miller
    has a lot of vertical lines. So maybe open that up a bit. But again, thank you!
    I'm glad you got a chance to redo the logo.\r\n\r\ncourtney"
  created: '2008-10-09 17:34:48'
- author:
    name: TheMark
    picture: 109832
  body: "Dear Artboy\r\n\r\nAfter reading every post I felt like I needed to comment
    but for the first time I found myself totally out of words. But returning today,
    I have a few. Thank you for stepping up to your job as a creative director. I
    felt your posts was kinda joking with the whole concept and that sort of pissed
    me off a little. You should have forced your way into this with a pencil in every
    hand and set people straight - as your jobtitle would demand. I'm sure you could
    have made 10 new logo sketches in one day that would have been better... a lot
    better! Your companys profile would have taken a beating and eventually your own
    job would be threaten. The owner of your company hired you because you knew something
    about graphic design that he himself didn't and the fact that he didn't even take
    his own companys profile so serious - just scares the hell out of me. I'm leaning
    towards the cries for you to leave this company ASAP... You coming here shows
    you care.\r\n\r\nYou certainly made a better logo for the company but I agree
    with the other post that it's webish and the word Associates is disturbed by the
    graphics. \r\n\r\nIn scandinavian design we have a saying \"keep it simple\"...
    I would suggest you try that. Remove what are not important and go ahead and save
    the day!\r\n\r\nYou can do it - because you care\r\n\r\nMark\r\nhttp://www.enterthemark.com"
  created: '2008-10-11 15:37:08'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I understand the urge to make a nod to the old seaweed but I agree with the
    others that a simpler more straightforward more sober solution is likely to be
    stronger even if it may seem too conventional at first. \r\n\r\nStill, you have
    clearly made you point. So congratulations!\r\n\r\nCertainly it isn't necessary
    now to quickly get another one out. Instead now that you have saved the ship,
    begin thinking about a) a better ship. or b) an even better solution."
  created: '2008-10-11 17:18:22'
- author:
    name: goldfishSarah
    picture: 109548
  body: "This whole topic of discussion is deeply disturbing to me. I myself have
    been in a similar situation as a Web Developer/Graphic Designer. I am no longer
    with the company. Think of it this way. Would a company who hired an accountant
    or a production manager or an editor trust those people's duties to an intern?
    I would certainly hope not. People should be (in a RESPONSIBLE company) hired
    for a reason and given a clear description of job duties- which are not to be
    shared with others hired for separate reasons. \r\n\r\nYou were hired in as the
    expert in your area, and if you need \"help\" designing a logo, it should be left
    to YOU ALONE to delegate that assignment to someone YOU trust to help with YOUR
    job. If you are not allowed the responsibility to delegate your own work to those
    which you (as the expert) trust, then you are obviously not valued as the expert
    and your company should question why they hired you, if they cannot trust you
    as the expert to delegate your own work. You need to make them realize this. Let
    them know how important it is to allow department experts to delegate work from
    their own departments. Explain to them that nobody is an expert in everything,
    and the company NEEDS specialized experts in all fields in order to succeed. And
    in order for those experts to do the best jobs they can do - they NEED to be trusted.
    \r\n\r\nThe advice you should give this company you work for should be: \"Do not
    hire anyone you do not trust more than yourself in the area they are being hired
    into.\" \r\n\r\nNot everyone is trained to think critically about design, and
    how the way things look affect a company's image - and in what ways. Anyone can
    have an opinion, but designers look beyond what \"looks good\" because designing
    is a strategic process, to achieve what a company, or a client is trying to achieve.\r\n\r\nI'd
    definitely give them a chance to \"change their ways\", but if they don't understand
    the simple concept of job specialization by now, chances are, they never will.
    GET OUT of that place - It's going to go down in flames!\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-11 19:11:11'
- author:
    name: Artboy34
    picture: 115388
  body: "POSTSCRIPT 23 March 2009\r\n\r\nI am happy to report that I have a new job
    at a new company in a different line of work. Design should definitely be left
    to the experts, and when it is not \u2014 it is truly time to move on.\r\n\r\nAs
    I have done.\r\n\r\nMartin Bentley Krebs\r\nDesignosaur since 1980"
  created: '2009-03-31 14:53:23'
date: '2008-07-09 16:17:27'
title: Your thoughts?

---
