---
author:
  name: chasteauneuf
body: "Good clean typography is a fundemental skill of any designer. Most designers
  believe they have good typography but in my experience it is something which is
  developed through time and experience. I think we all begin our design lives with
  a desire to be outrageously creative, and only as we mature, begin realise that
  simplicity and structure is just as, if not more important. In this article, I will
  go through some simple steps to acheive good clean well structured typography in
  Adobe Indesign.\r\n\r\nThe first step is to choose your typefont. In this case I
  have chosen a simple standard font of Helvetica Neue. I have set it up at 10pt size
  and 12pt  leading. It is important to consider legibility at this point. I try not
  to go below 9pt for any brochure or printed material, but if the document is to
  be viewed digitally such as a pdf, it is worth doing it larger.\r\n\r\nNext choose
  how many columns you want the page to be. Here you must consider aesthetics and
  legibility. Columns are important as they help give the page more structure, but
  also make a printed document easier to read. Studies show that 8-10 words per line
  is the most legible and I have tried to reflect this by choosing a 4 column layout.
  Also, consider border dimensions and the space between the columns. It is common
  for the space between columns to be half of the border length. In my example I have
  chosen a 10mm border and 5mm between the columns. Already we see that the page is
  taking shape. As I have already said, I believe structure is the key to good typography,
  and these four columns and borders will provide the structure for the entire document.
  If it is a brochure it will help bring consistency to the whole thing. Images and
  quotes could should all submit to this grid.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/4-column-grid_4039.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/text-4-col_6327.jpg]\r\n\r\nSo
  we have set up a grid vertically, the next step will be to set up a horizontal or
  baseline grid, which all our text will stick to. This is a key factor to good typography
  and InDesign is a great bit of software as it has all the tools to makew this process
  simple. We have already chosen our leading (12pt) so we will set up a grid to reflect
  this. Go to the top bar menu InDesign>Preferences>Grid. This menu box should display.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/grid-setup_5138.jpg]\r\n\r\nStart
  the grid at 10mm in accordance with your borders. Type into the Increment Every
  box, 12pt in accordance with your type leading. Press OK. The grid is now set up,
  to make it visible, go to the top bar menu again, View>Grids and Guides>Show baseline
  Grid. You will now see guides running across the page horizontally at the same leading
  as your type. Now make your type stick to the grid. Bring up the paragraph display
  box, Window>Type and Tables>Paragraph. Select your type box and click on the Align
  to baseline grid button in the bottom right hand corner. All type lines should now
  stick perfectly to your grid lines. All further type we will insert from now on
  will also be made to align to this grid.\r\n\r\nNow we will add a heading. The key
  here is to set the leading up that it will align nicely to our already set up baseline
  grid. I have set my title at 95pt with a leading of 72pt. Basically I have made
  the leading to be a multiple of the 12pt our baseline grid is already set up to.
  This way each line can naturally line up with a line of the body text. The title
  size also allows it to sit nicely and not overlap at all. If the tops of letters
  such as h is hitting a lower curve of a g it can reduce legibility and also make
  it ugly. Don\u2019t forget to click the Align to baseline grid button on the paragraph
  formating box again. Also select a text wrap so the text will not overlap the heading
  but flow round it. It should look something like this.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/add-title_5591.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
  shall now add an introduction paragraph in the exact same way. This time I will
  select 24pt leading, again a multiple of our 12pt grid. Align it to the grid and
  it should look something like this\u2026\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/last_3511.jpg]\r\n\r\nAs
  you can see, everything is aligning perfectly giving the page a neat structured
  feel. In most cases I try to keep the alignment consistent, but in this case I have
  been a bit creative and made the intro and title right aligned to stick to the body
  text paragraph and give a crisp centre line.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/finish_4372.jpg]\r\n\r\nSo
  thats it, I have waffled on long enough. Hope you enjoyed this tutorial.Typography
  is a massive subject, and this article just includes some of the things that have
  helped me. Please let me know if it has helped you at all. What can I do to make
  it better?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: "Wonderful! Thank for a very helpful read. \r\n\r\nDan"
  created: '2008-07-10 13:41:49'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Cool\r\n\r\nYou could make the grid half the leading, that way you can avoid
    full returns. Also let people know how to set up their text frames, which are
    set to Ascent in InDesign by default. I always used Fixed frames if I am using
    a baseline, but maybe there is another way. \r\n\r\nBaselines are good for some
    tasks, but sometimes I like to use cap height because it allows you to align an
    image with the type at the top of the text frame. That gets complicated though.\r\n\r\nFeel
    free to correct me if I have led anyone astray, I'm a novice.\r\n\r\nAndy"
  created: '2008-07-10 16:37:11'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "\xA1Handpicked!"
  created: '2008-07-11 06:34:58'
- author:
    name: chasteauneuf
  body: "thanks for the comments guys. 1985, completely take your points. I was trying
    to give a few tips really without making it thousands of words :-) \r\nAligning
    the first baseline to cap height is a good tip when using images. I think aligning
    to a baseline is appropriate for heavy text documents and can also work over larger
    brochures.\r\n\r\nhandpicked?"
  created: '2008-07-11 09:57:28'
- author:
    name: chasteauneuf
  body: "oh right, just realised what handpicked means!\r\nthanks Joe - thats great!!!!\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-11 12:15:37'
- author:
    name: lapiak
    picture: 111789
  body: Nice tutorial, but I'd recommend using picas instead of millimeters since
    it's much easier to convert points and picas, as well as picas and inches. This
    way you can rely on math and understand how to use the baseline grid with point
    sizes. This also reduces the dependency on using the paragraph display box.
  created: '2008-07-11 16:56:01'
- author:
    name: jt_the_ninja
    picture: 115340
  body: "Great! Thank you so much! I've had to teach myself InDesign for my job, and
    so far it's just been me figuring out stuff as I need to do something. I don't
    have much control over typefaces and sizes for my current project, but on future
    projects I'll keep this tutorial in mind!\r\n\r\nPeace,\r\nJT"
  created: '2008-07-15 21:58:30'
- author:
    name: jayyy
    picture: 109661
  body: "@Andy:\r\n\r\n<cite>You could make the grid half the leading, that way you
    can avoid full returns.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat do you mean?"
  created: '2008-07-16 05:26:21'
- author:
    name: chasteauneuf
  body: "I think the half leading would be making it 6pt, rather than 12, is that
    right 1985?\r\nit would indeed allow less space between paragraphs and give more
    control here, but may be more difficult to aligning type throughout the whole
    page to the same line.\r\nthanks for the comments guys.\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-16 11:41:12'
- author:
    name: jt_the_ninja
    picture: 115340
  body: "One question: is there a way to have more than one baseline grid setup for
    the same document? I have a project where most of the document can be aligned
    using the same grid, but the last part needs to have only about half a line space
    between two paragraphs, and the grid forces a whole space, which makes it go too
    long...I could just setup the grid with half the space between lines that I'll
    typically need, but all those lines would obscure my view, I'm thinking.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    just a question.\r\n\r\n\r\nPeace,\r\nJT"
  created: '2008-07-16 18:28:02'
- author:
    name: chasteauneuf
  body: "Hmmm, to be honest im not sure about this. I assumed there was a way, but
    I honestly have not found it. The way I get round this is to set up grids for
    different text boxes using text frame options, but it is not ideal. I have googled
    this problem before and not found any alternatives.\r\nAnyone any better solutions?"
  created: '2008-07-17 10:21:53'
- author:
    name: cslem1
  body: "I would personally just copy the original master page or make a new master
    page and create a different baseline grid on it. Then apply that to the last page.
    I never had to do this and I don't have Indesign open, so I greatly apologize
    if it doesn't work as well as it does in my head :-P\r\n\r\ncourtney"
  created: '2008-07-18 08:59:55'
- author:
    name: chasteauneuf
  body: "well the baseline grid is set up in preferences, so it applies it to the
    whole document rather than just the master. Dont know if you can change it specifically
    on masters...\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-18 12:03:01'
- author:
    name: grid
    picture: 110160
  body: "I thought I\u2019d add my two cents to this excellent explanation. My sample
    layout is based upon Josepf M\xFCller-Brockmann\u2019s book, Grid Systems in Graphic
    Design. I\u2019ve included a screen capture of the final grid. The layout grid,
    combined with InDesign\u2019s underlying baseline grid aligns the type perfectly
    within each unit. I\u2019ve departed from the treatise by using the x-height and
    baseline to size my grid unit. It\u2019s a visual alignment that is far easier
    to do now than when the book was written. The gutter allows for a single line
    caption under each image. The final product is an 8 by 10 inch proof sheet for
    35 mm images. There are many products on the market that do a far better job of
    making a proof sheet. I was working at an understandable example of the underlying
    structure. It\u2019s somewhat complicated to explain how I set this up, but if
    there is enough interest, I\u2019ll give it a try.\r\n\r\n-Bill Lomax\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Grid_5072.jpg]"
  created: '2008-07-19 07:08:41'
- author:
    name: dogg
    picture: 110510
  body: "Through experimentation, I've found that using a three point baseline grid
    is ideal for most documents. Of course, this isn't true for all pieces, but it's
    a good default for newsletters, forms, and leaflets that employ a broad range
    of type sizes (i.e., cutlines, body copy, headlines, and footnotes).\r\n\r\nMy
    \"base three\" system has one mathematical advantage of being multiplied evenly
    into standard page sizes, which results in faster, cleaner layouts. I'm a workaday
    designer, and a majority of my typesetting is done at a mill pace--quick and dirty.
    This grid method is a lifesaver.\r\n\r\nMy two cents.\r\n\r\n\r\nDOGG : : :"
  created: '2008-07-20 16:49:29'
- author:
    name: chasteauneuf
  body: "thanks for the comments guys, thats awesome. Bill, would love to hear more
    about how you set this up. Its actually quite difficult to find good articles/tutorials
    for this.\r\n\r\nDogg, thats really interesting, so the grid is just at 3pt always
    and you space the font size accordingly?\r\nI shall give that a try. I run the
    design department of a PR company, so like you and im sure many designers we tend
    to have to work at a fast pace. I usually just set up my grid after I choose a
    pt size. But I shall try a 3pt one!\r\nthanks\r\n "
  created: '2008-07-21 09:48:28'
- author:
    name: hello@ffja.se
    picture: 115359
  body: Very good tutorial and discussion! Thanx!
  created: '2008-07-21 19:34:24'
- author:
    name: dogg
    picture: 110510
  body: "Three is the magic number. Like I mentioned, the \"base three\" grid system
    isn't a universal solution, but it sure seems to work well with so many documents.
    \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nDOGG : : :"
  created: '2008-07-22 18:43:28'
- author:
    name: YOTS
  body: "JT, you can set a custom baseline grid for each text field in the Text Frame
    Options.\r\n\r\nVery nice article. For anyone interested, I created a grid system
    for web work that incorporates a 10pt baseline grid. By setting the baseline to
    10pts, you can multiple leading choices, as long as it's in increments on 5pts.
    You can <a href=\"http://www.aisleone.net/2007/design/designing-grid-systems-for-flash/\"><strong>read
    more about it</strong></a> on my blog.\r\n\r\nDogg, could you explain your system
    a little more. Why is 3 the magic number? By having a baseline grid os 3pts, wouldn't
    the leading have to be a multiple of 3?"
  created: '2008-07-22 18:53:31'
- author:
    name: grid
    picture: 110160
  body: "Hello Roger,\r\n\r\nWhat\u2019s different about my sample grid is that it
    is specific to the body copy font. Helvetica Bold Condensed would be a horrible
    choice, but it works for this one task. If I substitute Garamond, it will not
    fit the grid correctly.\r\n \r\nThe short version of how is that you need to know
    the exact x-height of the font. Most commercial fonts have a UPM of 1,000. If
    your font has an x-height of 395 (Arno Pro regular), then at ten points the x-height
    is 3.95 points. My example row is eight lines deep. The height of a row is: 7x
    leading (12 pt) + x-height = 87.95 pt. The horizontal alley (gutter) is: 2x leading
    (12 pt) \u2013 x-height = 20.05 pt. Set Preferences > Grids > Baseline Grid >
    Start: 3.95 pt (x-height) | Relative to: Top Margin | Increment Every: 12 pt (leading).\r\n\r\nThen
    it\u2019s a question of using the numbers to set up rows and gutters.\r\n\r\nYou
    can make a very close approximation of the x-height by turning an \u201Cx\u201D
    of your choice of font, at size, to outline. Then ungroup it and use the Direct
    Selection Tool to draw a marquee around the \u201Cx\u201D. Drag ruler guides to
    snap to the x-height and baseline. Measure the distance between and you have your
    number.\r\n\r\n-Bill Lomax\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-22 19:08:24'
- author:
    name: dogg
    picture: 110510
  body: "YOTS,\r\n\r\nThree isn't necessarily THE magic number, but rather a catchy
    reference to the old School House Rock jam. Anyway, the base three approach is
    essentially the same rationale as your base 5 or 10 system for web.\r\n\r\nSince
    there are 72 points in an inch, 12 points in a pica, six picas in an inch, etc.,
    the math rounds out nicely. You need to be judicious with type, but the base three
    system can be quite effective at slaying massive, disorganized, beastly documents.
    \r\n\r\nImagine a newsletter that utilizes a variety of type styles: headlines
    of varying size, subheads, body copy, bulleted lists, bylines, and cutlines. Column
    widths aside, you can start by establishing body copy with, say, Adobe Garamond,
    10/12. Pretty standard so far. Move on to small headlines: Trade Gothic Bold Condensed,
    16/18. Large headlines: Adobe Garamond 36/39. Cutlines: Trade Gothic Medium 7/9.\r\n\r\nYou
    get the idea. The base three system is really no different than using any other
    baseline gridwork, just that it seems especially versatile. Actually, the sample
    grid system in this tutorial could just have easily used a three point baseline
    grid.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nDOGG : : :"
  created: '2008-07-22 22:16:10'
- author:
    name: YOTS
  body: 'Dogg, makes perfect sense now and I think you might be right, 3 might be
    the magic number. My 5 point system is the same idea as this but less flexible
    than the 3 point system. With my system you can set leading in increments of 5,
    so between 0-20 you only have 4 leading options, 5-10-15-20. With your 3 point
    system you have 6 options: 3-6-9-12-15-18. I''m going to try that out and see
    how it works.'
  created: '2008-07-23 04:02:38'
- author:
    name: YOTS
  body: DOGG, I tried your system out and it works great. It gives a ton of leading
    options and on a letter size paper, with .5 inch margins, the grid fits the page
    perfectly. The only downside is that the baselines are hard on the eyes since
    there are so many of them. It's hard to see when zooming out, even at 100%.
  created: '2008-07-23 15:45:50'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "@ jayyy\r\n\r\nSometimes full returns can look a bit clumsy and disrupt the
    flow. If that's the case you can use half a line of leading (in this case 6pts).
    The text will line up again the next time you break. This bothers some people
    and not others.\r\n\r\n@ chasteauneuf\r\n\r\nSetting up a baseline grid in preferences
    applies the grid to the whole document but you can change the baseline options
    within a frame.\r\n\r\nObject> Text Frame Options> Baseline Options (or command
    b)\r\n\r\nCheck 'Use Custom Baseline Grid'"
  created: '2008-07-23 16:47:05'
- author:
    name: Andy Martin
    picture: 111412
  body: 'Great little article. '
  created: '2008-07-24 10:44:56'
- author:
    name: chasteauneuf
  body: "Just being trying out the 3pt system and worked a treat for a text heavy
    invite.\r\nthanks for the explanation Grid. Makes sense so far I think, but want
    to spend some time trying it properly. Cheers guys.\r\nRog"
  created: '2008-07-24 15:28:44'
- author:
    name: jt_the_ninja
    picture: 115340
  body: "Thanks for the info, YOTS. I'll be sure to keep that in mind. I'm managing
    to work with a 4pt grid (all of my leadings are multiples of 8), but for future
    reference, that will certainly come in handy.\r\n\r\nPeace,\r\nJT"
  created: '2008-07-25 13:07:51'
- author:
    name: xstefanx
  body: YOTS thank you for that info on the text frame options for custom baseline
    grid. i was trying to figure out how to put text on the baseline grid upside down.
    this works great. :)
  created: '2008-07-25 17:19:19'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "The most important thing is to find a common multiple, whether using base
    3 or something else. Always start with the text size, but if you need smaller
    captions, footnotes etc, you need smaller steps than 12pt. If your captions would
    be 7/8pt, you could use a 4pt baseline grid, if you need 7/9pt, a 3pt baseline
    is good. \r\n\r\nThe smaller you get, however, the more difficult it gets for
    the reader to discern the inherent discipline a grid brings. Based on multiples
    of 3pt, headlines have a lot of flexibility, more than you\u2019d want for a newspaper.
    If you work in metric, remember that 3pt is just over 1mm \u2013 a grid unit that
    M\xFCller-Brockmann et al would have considered to fussy. Sometimes it is easier
    to work with metric grids, especially as the page size would also be metric. \r\n\r\nUnfortunately
    for us European mm-heads, both Indesign and Quark quietly convert metric input
    for leading (which isn\u2019t leading, but line-spacing) back to points and you
    end up with strange decimals in the menu. But you can ignore them.\r\n\r\nThe
    size of your baseline grid can help lining up type (and images), but it can also
    be a style issue. If your grid is coarser, increments will be more noticeable
    and the grid will become a design feature. working with a small common unit of
    line-spacing is like constructing a building with bricks: while they are too small
    to count, all the features (windows, doors, transoms, steps) of the facade are
    multiples of a brick, the baseline of the building, as it were. That gives it
    an honest, quiet authority that we seem to respond to. This also works with other
    materials, but like a coarser baseline grid, building with larger concrete slabs
    or glass panels would become more of a style than using those small bricks.\r\n\r\nThe
    space between columns also depends on the way you set text. If you justifiy (which
    i wouldn\u2019t do for narrow columns with less than 35 characters) the type,
    the channels need to show more white than for unjustified text where only a few
    lines will ever make full measure. I never draw space between columns, but indent
    my text from the right, so i can adjust that space between columns individually.
    That way, i can also cheat and sometimes widen a column by a fraction in order
    to bring over the occasional word \u2013 widow or orphan. So far, nobody has noticed
    that little trick in any of the work i have done."
  created: '2008-07-26 13:41:33'
- author:
    name: dogg
    picture: 110510
  body: "eriks\r\n\r\nExcellent analogy comparing a building to a baseline grid. Very
    Bauhaus. Nice tip on gutter spacing as well.\r\n\r\n\r\nDOGG : : :"
  created: '2008-07-27 02:41:08'
- author:
    name: seml
    picture: 110996
  body: Just one observation, personal though. You've used helvetica neu for example,
    but you must be sure to calculate the best leading considering the x-height of
    the typeface. In terms of readibility, I think that Helvetiva in copy size should
    be extra leaded, 10/13pt for instance, since it has a tall x-height. The other
    rules are deductable but the relationships should be based in the baseline. Good
    intro though. I find it monstruous to work without a baseline grid. Obsession?
    ;)
  created: '2008-07-30 17:32:28'
- author:
    name: Jennifer
  body: "Quick question for chasteauneuf:\r\n\r\nI'm having a go at this, and I'm
    curious to know what you have Units and Increments set to in preferences.\r\nIn
    the step where you specify Grid start and increments, you have it starting in
    mm and increments in pts, which I can't seem to get Indesign to let me do.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/grid-setup_5138_3825.jpg]\r\n\r\nif
    I have units set to mm, indesign not only forces me to specify increments in mm,
    but doesn't calculate in mm what i've asked for in points. Am I making sense?
    How did you get around this?\r\n\r\nthanks!"
  created: '2008-07-30 22:01:28'
- author:
    name: seml
    picture: 110996
  body: "Jennifer, you may work inside InDesign using whatever units you want, just
    by writing them. (example, in the top you've got the units you set in the preferences
    menu, but you can work in the boxes directly, or even make calculations with it.
    Draw a square 10x10mm. Them go to the \"h\" box (height) and type \"10+25%\".
    You'll get a 10x12,5mm rectangle, because you told InDesign to calculate 25% of
    the hight and add it. That works in every unit, namely points in the bodies of
    typefaces and leading.)\r\nImagine you set a 10/13pt text as a base text to build
    your baseline. For captions, deducted from it, you can calculate a leading ratio
    for the body of the caption, like 6/13-25%pt. This will result in a caption text
    6/9.75pt and you be sure to align the grid in every four lines.\r\nSummary: write
    down the units you want in the boxes: pt, mm, cm, p\r\ncalculate by association
    12+25%,12*1,25pt (multiply by 1,25, which is equal to add 25%), 12/2 (divide by
    2), etc. You will see how helpfull it is.\r\nHope it helps... "
  created: '2008-07-31 14:04:38'
- author:
    name: milne.ross
  body: "This is a great thread. I was dealing with similar issues recently when designing
    a book and decided to write a little Python program to do the job for me. Admittedly,
    it has a lot of shortcomings as it was built for a very specific task. That being
    said, I've since used it to set up grids for other print projects and it works
    well-enough.\r\n\r\nYou can see a bit of it on my website www.sincerelyross.com/
    (under Grid Generator)\r\n\r\nIt does essentially what is described above and
    is also based first and foremost around the choice of leading (thus typeface and
    size). One difference at this point is that it is not as concerned with the x-height,
    though I can see from Grid's comment why this might be a valuable thing to incorportate.
    It started out as a means to create totally proportional grids and page formats
    (according to Van de Graaf and Tschichold's analysis of traditional page models)
    though I have since added the ability to specify things like margins, page format,
    etc manually. \r\n\r\nI'll try to post back as it develops. I'm sure I'll have
    a lot more questions as important decisions arise.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-08-06 18:10:02'
- author:
    name: chasteauneuf
  body: "Jennifer, did seml answer your question here?\r\nI dont think you can get
    it to read one part in mm and one in pts, but you can type it in manually? In
    this instance, as I am using it in reference to the type size, I type it in as
    pt...and InDesign recognises this. As seml says, InDesign understands this and
    you can even specify measurements by adding % and also just typing +10 or something."
  created: '2008-08-11 09:53:19'
- author:
    name: chasteauneuf
  body: "milne.ross, this looks amazing. Know nothing of Python myself but know developers
    and will definetely show them this. Great work! and you will be able to implement
    this into InDesign?\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-11 09:54:30'
- author:
    name: milne.ross
  body: "Chasteauneuf, thanks for comments.\r\n\r\nThe program allows you to specify
    page format ratios, baseline increments, columns, rows, and margins and then outputs
    a string of text giving the resulting values for gutters, baseline margin from
    top, etc. Those extraordinarily long decimal numbers on a few of the slides on
    my site are the values (in mm) that the program outputs. These can be used to
    set up the document and grid in InDesign. The graphic on the left is just to provide
    a little visual clue about what all the values will end up looking like."
  created: '2008-08-12 01:08:11'
- author:
    name: thompson
    picture: 115336
  body: I am going to start reading through this great post, but will this system
    work with 8.5x11 page sizes? does page size matter? Or is all this based on an
    A4 size?
  created: '2008-08-12 23:08:37'
- author:
    name: YOTS
  body: thompson, it works great on 8.5x11.
  created: '2008-08-19 02:53:52'
- author:
    name: kco
    picture: 110793
  body: "Cool,\r\n\r\nFor those who haven't heard of [[http://www.keithtam.net/|Keith
    Chi-Hang Tam]] he's got some good information on grids too.\r\n\r\nThanks\r\n\r\nKco"
  created: '2008-09-06 01:24:15'
- author:
    name: shalinaj
    picture: 113238
  body: Chasteauneuf, This post was very helpful.
  created: '2008-10-07 12:30:23'
- author:
    name: StrukturGrafiks
    picture: 117698
  body: I love this post... still struggling with a specific document at the moment,
    it's got slightly irregular dimensions (it's an 8 x 10 doc in InDesign). Aside
    from my current document, I think I can understand now how to get a nice grid
    working.
  created: '2009-10-21 17:43:20'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "can you/we make this a downloadable/prinatble document?\r\n\r\n\r\n<br />\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.allthingsconsidered.com.au\">Design
    Studio Melbourne</a>"
  created: '2009-10-30 02:27:49'
- author:
    name: studnickidukes
  body: "Now how do you deal with photos/art with a text wrap butting into the columns
    of text? Haven't been able to find anything dealing with that problem specifically.
    \r\n\r\nWhat do you specify for text wraps? Does it cleanly push text in accordance
    with the baseline grid? Are the columns still even at the bottom of the text box?"
  created: '2010-01-12 20:39:57'
- author:
    name: Monsta
    picture: 115522
  body: "A very enjoyable read, most appreciated this thread of info.\r\n\r\nIn the
    past I had been trying to create text styling all based on using the same ratio
    for leading, eg, 3pt 6pt etc but the addition of aligning to a baseline grid sharing
    the same pt size or a multiple of it has helped get my head around it, thanks
    again everyone."
  created: '2010-02-05 05:23:58'
- author:
    name: Duckworth
  body: "I've read this thread with great interest but still struggling to work out
    how I can reconcile this with working in mm - it seems perfectly geared up to
    working with inches. I suppose like everyone using metric measurements as default,
    I'm looking a standard way of setting up documents in InDesign based on working
    with DIN-standard paper sizes, but keeping points as the units of measurements
    in the baseline grid and gutters ;o)\r\n\r\nTo me, 6pt baseline grids look like
    the way to go - I think there's enough flexibility there but visually I don't
    think there's enough visual structure in using less than 6pt. I just don't like
    full line paragraph breaks, I think the distance looks too wide IMHO.\r\n\r\nI
    reckon the best way seems be to set document sizes and margins(possibly?) in mm
    and everything else in points? To me this logically seems the best compromise.
    That would mean ignoring Picas though as 1 pica = 12points, I might as well set
    up a 6pt document & baseline grid in points not half-picas?\r\n\r\nI wonder if
    anyone can shed some light on how publishers in Europe handle this, given the
    amount of content they have to order and structure with DIN-page contraints.\r\n\r\nAnyone
    any ideas - is there a better way to do this?"
  created: '2010-03-01 10:02:16'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Duckworth\r\n\r\nI guess it depends how happy you are working with different
    units, do you mind seemingly random values in mm when working in points/do you
    like to work to three decimals places etc. I don't think there is a way to reconcile
    DIN paper size with the point system exactly, no magic math as such, but you can
    make strong layouts with a bit of tolerance between the two systems. I usually
    do as you say and have the document set in mm and the type in points, I wouldn't
    worry about picas.\r\n\r\nIf you base your grid on metric measurements it will
    result in long values when converted into points, but really that's not a problem
    for a complicated job as you can quickly add these values to style sheets, save
    you typing them. It is possible to have atom splitting measurements in InDesign
    which allow the paper size and point sizes to come together with very very small
    discrepancies.\r\n\r\nThe best book on grids and baselines IMHO is Raster Systeme/Grid
    Systems by Josef M\xFCller-Brockmann. It took me a long time to get into it but
    it does have fantastic advice on dividing up pages precisely. The example he employs
    is a DIN page and the type is in points, so it might help you with your question.\r\n\r\nHope
    this helps"
  created: '2010-03-01 16:03:39'
- author:
    name: Duckworth
  body: "@1985 - Thanks very much for the explanation - having played around with
    grids on my latest project, there doesn't seem to be a good way to reconcile points
    and the DIN-standard. I compromised by keeping text and baseline grid in points,
    and document size and margins in mm. Pragmatically, that seems to be the way to
    go.\r\n\r\nThanks very much for the book recommendation - it looks great, so I've
    ordered it!"
  created: '2010-03-02 12:55:45'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Great!
  created: '2010-03-02 13:50:40'
- author:
    name: Designers Bookshop
    picture: 120349
  body: "Hi everyone. If you like grid systems check out our awesome tool for creating
    professional layout in Adobe InDesign fast and easy:\r\nhttp://www.designersbookshop.com/grid-calculator-pro-edition.html\r\n\r\nIt
    only takes a fraction of the time it would normally take.\r\nDownload a free demo,
    it's really cool!\r\n\r\n/Abraham"
  created: '2010-07-14 13:04:54'
- author:
    name: Prime-One
    picture: 118750
  body: "@chasteauneuf - Great resource. Felt like I was back in Design School in
    College. Thanks for the refresher!\r\n\r\n@Abraham - downloaded the demo a few
    days ago and yes, it helps greatly in producing grids quickly. Great resource
    as well.\r\n\r\n@1985 - owned Grid Systems by Josef M\xFCller-Brockmann in College
    and lost it when I moved away from home. That was the Holy Bible and Qur'an rolled
    into one. Recently enquired about it online and looking to put it back on my bookshelf
    where it belongs."
  created: '2011-02-25 06:03:24'
- author:
    name: guest
  body: I've been told that "real" grids require that horizontal divisions of space
    (ie columns and gutters) fall on grid units derived from the page proportions...
    is this a common practice?
  created: '2011-04-02 15:41:40'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: .
  created: '2011-04-02 18:25:37'
- author:
    name: bettaalice@yahoo.com
  body: "You share nice information. Write article beautiful and article writing level
    is very good easily understand to anyone who can read your article and that increase
    my knowledge<a href=\"http://callawayrazrxirons.tumblr.com/\"  rel=dofollow>Callaway
    RAZR X Irons</a> | <a href=\"http://callawayrazrxhlirons.tumblr.com/\" rel=dofollow>Callaway
    RAZR X HL Irons</a> | <a href=\"http://callawaydiabioedgehybrid.tumblr.com/\"
    rel=dofollow>Callaway Diablo Edge Hybrid</a> | <a href=\"http://taylormadeburnersuperfast20.tumblr.com/\"
    rel=dofollow>Taylormade burner superfast 2.0 driver</a> | <a href=\"http://callawayrazrhawkneutraldriver.tumblr.com/\"
    rel=dofollow>Callaway RAZR Hawk neutral Driver</a>\r\n"
  created: '2013-12-13 08:11:25'
- author:
    name: bettaalice@yahoo.com
  body: "I am always searching online for articles that can help me. There is obviously
    a lot to know about this. I think you made some good points in Features also.
    Keep working, great job!<a href=\"http://mizunomx-1000irons.tumblr.com/\" rel=dofollow>Mizuno
    mx-1000 irons</a> | <a href=\"http://mizunomp-69irons.tumblr.com/\"rel=dofollow>Mizuno
    mp-69 irons </a> | <a href=\"http://pingk15driver.tumblr.com/\" rel=dofollow>Ping
    k15 Driver</a> | <a href=\"http://taylormader9irons.tumblr.com/\" rel=dofollow>Taylormade
    R9 Irons</a> | <a href=\"http://taylormader9supermaxdriver.tumblr.com/\" rel=dofollow>TaylorMade
    R9 supermax driver</a>\r\n"
  created: '2013-12-13 08:11:51'
- author:
    name: abuzaynab
    picture: 127361
  body: ^^^SPAM!!!^^^
  created: '2014-06-07 19:09:32'
- author:
    name: shillstypes
  body: 'Whilst I''ve read similar posts/articles on setting up baseline grids, this
    has got to be the simplest (in a good way!) and easiest to understand. A good,
    clear reference. Thanks! '
  created: '2014-12-12 16:15:19'
date: '2008-07-10 12:31:24'
title: A tutorial for good typography in InDesign - Setting up a baseline grid

---
